• KAPAK About the Report: Yeşim Tekstil pledges to conform to and aimplement the principles of the agreement at each and every stage of production and governance and to monitor compliance. The report briefly explains previous practices within the organization of the company under the Global Compact Agreement and mainly higlights the work carried out in 2011. The information provided in the report is supported by statistical data, model practices and photographs. Yeşim Tekstil aims at diffusing sustainability efforts to all work processes and making sure that its suppliers and contract manufacturers also adopt these principles. The efforts made by the company to this end and the targets for the year 2012 and subsequent years are communicated in the report together with the relevant data. Contents: 2‐ About the report 11‐ Social Responsibility Policy 3‐ Message from CEO 20‐ «Green Factory» work 5‐ Information about Yesim Tekstil 21‐ Environment Healt Safety Policy 7‐ Yesim Tekstil achievements in 2011 28‐ Social responsibility works 8‐ Innovation in Yesim Tekstil 34‐ Measurement 9‐ Lean Management System 35‐ Sharing community 10‐Social Compliance in Yesim Tekstil Global Compact Agreement Yeşim Tekstil has pledged to conform to the principles of this international agreement on human rights, labor standards, the environment and the struggle against corruption. Yeşim Tekstil transparently shares the details of its work under the Global Compact Agreement in the global network since 2008. Global Compact Principles Human Rights Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights, P.11‐18 Principle 2: Businesses should make sure that they are not complicit in human right abuses, P.11‐18 Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining P.18 Labor Standards Principle 4: Businesses should effectively eliminate all forms of forced and compulsory labor, P.11,14.,15. Principle 5: Businesses should effectively abolish child labor, P.11.,14.,15 Principle 6: Businesses should effectively eliminate discrimination in respect of employment and occupation, P.11.,14.,15 ,18 Environment Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges, P.21‐27 Principle 8: Businesses shall undertake and encourage initiatives to promote grater environmental responsibility, P.21‐27. Principle 9: Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies, P.21‐27 Anti‐Corruption Principle 1: .Businesses should work against all forms of corruption, including extortion and bribery. P.14 Message from CEO Yeşim Tekstil is a company that has always led the industry by prioritizing social responsibilities since the very date of its establishment and conducted exemplary projects in line with its “People First” approach. Through work health and safety applications, management systems aiming to protect the employees’ rights, environmental efforts and social responsibility projects focused on embracing the community, which it has been implementing for years, our company has clearly defined its difference, developing into a manufacturer brand selected by world‐famous brands. Şenol Şankaya Having been undertaking these efforts for years already, the company managed to integrate them into its work processes, basing these activities on an applicable and developable systematic in accordance with international standards and is monitoring them against continuous performance criteria. It is our priority at Yeşim Tekstil that each of our efforts and projects contributes first to our employees and stakeholders and then to the whole society in general thus ensuring sustainability. As a company aware of its responsibilities and manufacturing with respect to its employees, community and the world we live in, we are happy of the fact that these values of ours make us valuable in the eyes of our customers. In 2005, our company was awarded SA 8000, the world’s most prestigious social compliance certificate. By obtaining this certificate, we have declared our commitment to satisfy and initiate necessary steps to achieve social compliance requirements not only at our facilities, but also at the facilities of our contract production and other suppliers. Our signature of the Global Compact in 2006, issue of a joint declaration with a number of global corporations in 2008 under the Financial Times initiative to mark the 60th anniversary of the signature of the Human Rights Declaration and signature of the declaration titled “Management is Women’s Right” in Turkey in 2009 are indicators of our commitment on the matter. All of the efforts we have undertaken for social responsibility have been extremely useful for us both inside and outside the company. Benefits of the efforts can be summarized as follows: Benefits inside the company: *We have started to more clearly highlight the commitment of our top management to the environment, community and governance reaching out to the employees. *We have managed to increase our employees’ corporate loyalty and motivation through all the applications we have accomplished for them. *The company integrated its corporate citizenship activities with work operations and encouraged the employees towards an increase in the positive social effects of the values chain. *We have had an opportunity to demonstrate how we have operationally implemented written requirements on social responsibility and environment incorporated into our company’s mission and values. *In‐house applications for progress evaluation we have implemented have led to improvement in our performance in this regard. * These good practices we have implemented in the social responsibility framework have brought us into contact with global brands and brought us new customers, thus leading to higher financial gains for our company. Benefits outside the company: *Making business with world‐famous brands has opened us doors towards strategic partnership with them. *The atmosphere of more transparency and trust has increased our company’s esteem. *The sustainability vision, strategy and implementation plan have provided a framework for the development of relations with all our stakeholders. *Our cooperation has provided valuable learning opportunities for all our stakeholders. By signing the Global Compact, we have undertaken to share globally all our projects and efforts that have been conducted for years. Fur us, this is the most crucial point in signing this agreement. Launched years ago by Şükrü Şankaya, a founder of Nergis Holding and our company with the “People First” motto, these efforts have been internalized and gathered under a corporate roof by us during the recent years. It is our purpose to share this approach and applications dating back to our corporate history in a global network by signing this agreement and lead the whole world and primarily the textile and garment industry on these issues. We at Yeşim Tekstil commit ourselves to continuing to perform our responsibilities towards our employees and the community, as we have so far always done. Yeşim Tekstil With a total operation area of 325 thousand square meters in Bursa, of which 144 thousand are indoor space, Yesim Tekstil, which has knitting, dyeing, and confection departments, is one of the leading integrated facilities. Our Vision To become the model strategic manufacturing partner to the world's leading brands in both apparel and home textiles Mission Our Values • To be a pioneer in the textile sector, manufacturing top‐ •Achieve mutual & sustainable growth with our quality products and making significant investments both in key customers and manufacturing partners qualified people and the latest technology. •Set the international benchmark for corporate • To ensure the highest levels of customer satisfaction. responsibility in textile manufacturing • To protect the environment and foster environmental •Be an industry leader in innovation and consciousness among staff, suppliers and the public at large. implementing new technologies & processes • To fulfill our obligations to the community and always act •Evolve our supply chain providing transparency in a socially responsible manner. and trust for our customers • To set an example for other companies by always putting •Continue to partner with our customers to People first . shorten end to end production times •Process oriented quality management system NIKE Yesim Tekstil, who manufactures for the internationally renowned brands, is in strategic partnership with companies like Nike, Burberry, Esprit in apparel and Matheis‐Schlafgut in home textiles sectors. . Our Certifications • SA8000 2011; • BSCI(Business Social Compliance Initiative) Exports : 236.410.025,57 USD • GSV(Global Security Verification) Revenue : 596.343.571,90 TL • “Oekotex Standard 100” • GOTS (manufacture from %100 organic cotton) • OE (manufacture from not totally %100 organic cotton) Capacity of Daily Production Knitting 50 tons/day Dyeing 100 tons/day Printing 100.000 meters/day Apperel 150.000 units/day Home Textile100.000 units/day Yeşim Tekstil employs 2500 individuals in house and provides employment opportunities to around 10.000 individuals in the aggregate including domestic and international subcontractor. A total of 300 employee’s children in Number of Female Employees : 1350 the 0‐6 age group are cared for and Number of Male Employees : 1150 educated free of charge in the day‐ Number of Interns : 50 care facilities of Yeşim. Achievements in 2011 Yeşim Tekstil was awarded by various institutions and organizations based on its 2010 data and performance. • Listed as the 216th largest company in the •“Human Respect Award” by Kariyer.net at the Human “500 Largest Industrial Companies” list issued Resources Summit by the Chamber of Industry of İstanbul. •“2011 Protect Award” by Burberry for its sensitivity • Ranked 55th in the list of “1000 Largest towards the environment, social responsibility and Exporters of Turkey” issued by Turkish employees. Exporters Assembly. •The Governorship of Bursa has awarded Yeşim with an • Ranked 4th in the “250 Largest Firms” survey acknowledgement plaque for its contribution to the conducted by the Chamber of Commerce of promotion and development vof the city, following the Bursa. award granted by Burberry. • “Award of Prize in Textile and Apparels” by •Yeşim was awarded the Gold Image and Silver Image Uludağ Textile Exporter’s Association and trophies at the Specialty Graphic Imaging Exhibition Apparel Exporter’s Association. organized in the U.S.A. with its printing techniques. For our customer our innovative fabrics • Water,stain and soil repellant fabric • Easy Care & Non‐Iron fabric • Quick drying & self‐wicking fabric • Anti‐bacterial fabric • Odour neutralising fabric • UV protection fabric • Leather like cotton fabric • Miracle design fabric • Nano hybrid fabric • Organic cotton fabric • Recycled cotton&polyester fabric • BCI cotton fabric • Thermoregulation climatic fabric • Aesthetic fabric using PVA melting yarns Positioning itself as a global firm in the textile industry, whose existence is maintained through superior technology, high quality human resources and professional management structure, Yeşim Tekstil has survived until today thanks to its “innovative” approach. Yeşim Tekstil, which is an innovative company that has innovation in the core of its corporate objectives, is in a process of continuous self‐renewal, closely following sectoral trends and incorporating them with a requisite degree of production and management flexibility. Yeşim was awarded with the “Innovation” trophy by Uludağ Exporter’s Association in 2010. We proceed towards the future with our lean production and management model All our employees have fully adopted the concepts of Yeşim Tekstil has launched the Lean Thinking project, communication, sharing, team work team spirit and which is one of the most effective production and creating value as part of lean production, which is a management models today with respect to human focused management system. This is the major efficiency, quality, humans resources, process source of Yeşim Tekstil’s success in Lean Production. improvement and profitability, back in 2006, which is currently being implemented at full pace in each and Yeşim aims at focusing on sustainability to a higher extent every stage of production and management. in 2012. Diffenrent from the previoıus years Human Resources and Lean Production will be included under the Lean Thinking aims at generating a production and sustainability framework this year. The vision of the management model which reduces processes that do company on this issue is to adopt a lean approach in not add value, as well as wastes, by focusing on value sustainability and to achieve its goals through authorizing in each process. Kaizen techniques of continous its human resources. improvement with small steps play a very important role and significantly contribute to this process. The lean management approach and continous improvement policy which is adopted for production The extension of the target approach to through kaizen methodology is included in the management, which is a major lean technique, sustainability targets for 2012 with concurrent strategies. throughout the workforce and the continous Yeşim Tekstil will raise awareness within its organization monitoring of the performance indicators of each and at its suppliers in line with these targets and handle individual unit are key factors that contribute to this issue through a wider prespective by conducting Yeşim Tekstil’s progress towards is “True North” audits. business results. LEAN ACHIEVEMENTS Yeşim has improved its 2. Transportation is reduced and Yeşim Tekstil has carried out Quality by 62%, repairs by 79%, an area of approximately 11.000 kaizen (improvement) tasks stains by 56% and efficiency by 17,000 m2 is gained by until now with the participation of 30% and reduced stocks by 40% reducing the stocks and 2100 white and blue collar through Lean Management approximation of processes. employees. efforts. HUMAN RIGHTS «People First» Never forget that your colleagues and employees are human beings just like yourself, and that it is your duty to treat them well . This paternal advice rang in the ears of Yesim Tekstil founder Sukru Sankaya when he first started in business, and remains at the heart of the company's People First vision, its corporate culture and all its policies. Social Compliance is an integrated part of our business processes Yeşim Tekstil has a Social Compliance Department under and encourages all suppliers with a view to fulfilling its Human Resources Department which ensures that all expectations regarding social compliance. expectations regarding social complaince are notified and implemented. This department also accompanies the customers and This department conducts audits both at the main plant auditors during social compliance audits carried out by third and at the suppliers and reports the improvement areas party organizations and customers. to the respective departments and companies and supports MAIN STRATEGIES / SUB STRATEGIES True North Yeşim Tekstil has Customer – Profitability Speedİnnovation Competence allocated TL 200,000 BUSINESS RESULTS IN YESIM TRACKED BY TARGETS from its total Corporate •Profitability Social Responsibility •Revenue budget of TL 1.2 million •Loading Performance to social compliance, •Total Lead Time •Competencey occupational health •Stock and safety in 2011. MAIN STRATEGIES Finance, Quality, Loading Performance, Social Compliance, Employee Satisfaction , Lead Time, Corporate Reputation SUB STRATEGIES HUMAN RIGHTS «Trainings for health and safety» The Social Compliance – Environment – Occupational Health and Safety Board, comprising 30 members, convenes regularly on a monthly basis and adopts resolutions and the minutes of these meetings are recorded and communicated to the relevant departments. Occupational health and safety efforts are based on trainings. Yeşim Tekstil delivers training in house, to make sure that all its employees participate in ocupational health and safety practices through a system which gives priority to the health of its employees. Trainings were delivered to a total of 3423 employees in 2011. Social Compliance‐Occupational Health and Safety Trainings delivered in 2011 Number of TRAINING TOPIC Duration (hours) participants OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY TRAINING BASED ON CORRECTIVE AND PREVENTIVE ACTIONS 0.5 179 SEGREGATING WASTES AT SOURCE 1 6 FOOD POISONING AND WAYS OF PROTECTION –HYGIENE 1 16 OHS TRAINING FOR FORKLIFT OPERATORS 1 61 FIRST AID TRAINING 8 82 GENERAL FIRST AID TRAINING 0.5 42 SAFETY PROCEDURES 1 40 HYGIENE TRAININGS 0.5 21 QUALITY POLICY – SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY POLICY 0.5 1734 OHS TRAINING FOR EMPLOYEES HANDLING CHEMICALS 1 3 SOCIAL COMPLIANCE OCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY AND BASIC ENVIRONMENTAL TRAINING 2 1239 GRAND TOTAL 17 3423 Training Delivered to SubContracts in 2011 Number of TRAINING TOPIC Duration (hours) participants COMMUNICATING THE NEW QMS QUESTIONNAIRE 1 3 SUPPLIER QUALITY SYSTEM TRAINING 7 5 GRAND TOTAL 8 8 HUMAN RIGHTS «Social Compliance is secured» Social Compliance activities are followed by continuous internal and external audits conducted both at Yeşim Tekstil and suppliers and improvement is measured. Continous monitoring through audits Social Compliance certificates Scheduled internal audits are conducted at the suppliers every year in accordance with the BSCI (Business Social Compliance Initiative) Certificate: annual main plant and supplier audit plan. Yeşim has received a BSCI certificate in 2011. The main objective of BSCI Procurement Rules is to ensure specific In case a need arises for new suppliers, social and environmental standards on the basis of substantive scheduled or unscheduled audits internationally accepted conventions. By signing the BSCI are conducted at new suppliers on sdocial Procurement Rules, companies undertake to accept the compliance, environment, occupational health social and environmental standards specified in these and safety, in accordance with the social rules, to implement these rules and to take measures in compliance questionnaire for suppliers and their corporate policies for compliance with these rules. social compliance manual for suppliers upon request by the production department. The GSV (Global Security Verification) Certificate: The audit plan is prepared on an annual basis in a objective of this certificate is to ensure safety of entry, way to ensure that the main plant, all contract exit, loading, unloading, transportation and storage manufacturers, printing and embroidery firms activities, to ensure safety at the plant, to create a work are audited once every 6 months. The audits are environment free of undiclosed goods and to make sure conducted by the Social Compliance Team of that such goods are not loaded. Yeşim Tekstil has Yeşim, comprising members who are competent received the GSV certificate in 2011, certifying that it fully and authorized on this issue. meets the expectations of its customers with respect to safety. Our Company was subjected to the following social SA8000: After receiving the SA8000 certificate in 2005, compliance audits in 2011: Yeşim Tekstil was entitled to receive this certificate for the 3rd time following the audit conducted in June 2011. Intertek –BSCI Audit (December 2011) Nike GSV – İntertek Audit (May 2011) Through this certificate Yeşim covenants to meet İntertek – SA 8000 Certificate Renewal Audit (June 2011) international social compliance and environmental Systain –Social Responsibility Audit (September 2011) standards and to ensure that its subcontractors and Tchibo Social Compliance Audit (STR) (December 2011) suppliers also fulfill such requirements. Aeon – ISIS Consultancy Audit (December 2011) HUMAN RIGHTS «The most prestigious social compliance certificate» Yeşim Tekstil is the first company in the ready to wear sector in Turkey to recieve the SA8000 certificate which was renewed for the 3rd time in 2011. There are only a few companies in the world which manage to renew this certificate for the 3rd time. SA8000 is an important part of our business processes Yeşim Tekstil aims at incorporating Social Responsibility requirements in its corporate culture. Consequently it implements social compliance standards within its organization. Through the Social Compliance Standards, Yeşim Tekstil covenants to ensure that its employees recieve all their rights under the law and the respective standards while delivering its products or services, to comply with occupational health and safety rules and to act in compliance with the prevention of environmental pollution. Yeşim Tekstil covenants to implement these principles which are also included in the Global Compact Agreement in good faith and to allow 3rd parties to conduct SA 8000 AUDIT DATES STATUS audits. April 05 Certificate is Maintained November 05 Certificate is Maintained Customers from the U.S.A: and EU countries in the May 06 Certificate is Maintained ready‐to wear and household textiles sector evaluate February 07 Certificate is Maintained their suppliers with respect to good quality, fair price, August 07 Certificate is Maintained on time delivery and compliance with social May 08 Certificate is Renewed responsibility standards and place their orders December 08 Certificate is Maintained accordingly. Consequently Yeşim Tekstil is subjected June 09 Certificate is Maintained to social compliance audits by its customers and December 09 Certificate is Maintained potential customers throughout the year on the June 10 Certificate is Maintained principles of the Global Compact and on other issues. December 10 Certificate is Maintained Juıne 11 Certificate is Renewed The SA8000 certificate and the good results achieved February 12 Certificate is Maintained from the audits conducted by the customers assure Target: August 12 To Maintain the Certificate that Yeşim Tekstil fulfills all the requirements of the Global Compact Agreement. HUMAN RIGHTS «The satisfaction of our employees is important» The satisfaction of the employees of Yeşim Tekstil has been measured through Employee Satisfaction Surveys since 2006. Actions are taken for improvement on the basis of the results of these surveys. Employee Satisfaction Surveys Employee Satisfaction Surveys are made every year The results of the survey are communicated to all periodically applying to all employees. The department managers and the actions taken on the basis of questionnaires are completed anonymously and then these results are monitored by the Human Resources collected from each individual department and assessed Department. at Uludag University. The satisfaction levels of each 2219 of a total of 2534 employees have returned the department is specified and improvement opportunities questionnaires at the survey conducted on 14.04.2011. are identified as a result of the analysis made by Uludag According to this data the rate of general participation in University. the Employee Satisfaction Survey was 87%. The satisfaction rate was 78.93% in the survey comprising 66 questions. HUMAN RIGHTS «Legal working conditions» Our employees work under conditions which comply with national and international standards and recieve wages according to these standards. The wages of all employees who have worked for Yeşim Tekstil in excess of 4 months are higher than the minimum wage. Working conditions in compliance with the law The provisions of the “Labor Law” numbered No forced labor or contracted labor is employed 4857 as ratified by the Council of Ministers and at the company under these laws. All new the provisions of the “Collective Bargaining recruits completing the probation period (1‐3) Agreement” which was entered into by and depending on the nature of their position are between the employer and TEKSİF (The Union of considered as permanent staff. Textile, Knitting and Garment Industry Workers of Turkey”) are applied by Yeşim Tekstil. The The wages are determined on the basis of the administrative staff (“white collar”) are subjected minimum wages defined by the Ministry of Labor to the provisions of the Labor Law and the and Social Security. New recruits are paid workers (“blue collar”) are subjected to the minimum wage for a period of 4 months provisions of the Collective Bargaining following recruitment and then their wages are Agreement. increased at the rates specified in the Collective Bargaining Agreement. The wages of all When compared to the Labor Code, the Collective employees who have worked for Yeşim Tekstil in Bargaining Agreement always provides more excess of 4 months are higher than the minimum favourable conditions for the workers. Yeşim wage. Tekstil recruits its employees in accordance with this collective bargaining agreement since 1983, when the cooperation with TEKSİF was started. Yeşim Tekstil does not employ workers under the age of 18. The age distribution of our employees is provded in the graphic. HUMAN RIGHTS «The consideration for labor is valuable» Employees of Yeşim Tekstil receive the consideration for their efforts not only through wages but also through social benefits. Social assistances at Yeşim Tekstil *”Education grant” for all schooled children of *Holiday allowance for those who take annual leave, employees, *Payment of bonuses every month at the amount of *Marriage grant to employees who get married’, 5 days wage’, *Maternity benefits at childbirth’, *Religious holiday allowance for all employees, *Funeral grants those who lose their first degree *Heating allowance for all employees each month, relatives’, *Gifts to all employees once a year from the products *Circumcision grants to parents of boys’, manufactured by the company, *Military service allowance to those who leave *Free shuttle service for all employees, their jobs for military service’, *Free lunch to all employees every day, *Reimbursement of meal ticket fees to those *Provision of 40 kg of foodstuff to all employees employees who are on fast during Ramadan’ quarterly’ *Child allowance for parents, separately for each *Free of charge kindergarten service child’, Yeşim Tekstil allows its employees to enroll with a trade union however it is not compulsory Yeşim Tekstil complies with the requirement of employing disabled persons at the rate of 3% pursuant ot the Labor Law. It is not required to be citizen of the Republic of Turkey to be to be employed at Yeşim Tekstil. Although the Labor Law does not require employment of ex‐convicts, Yeşim Tekstil employs 2 ex‐convicts. HUMAN RIGHTS «The kindergarten brings color to our plant» Our modern kindergarten which is offered to the children of our employees free of charge provides an affectionate, peaceful and safe environment to them. Peace of mind to employees whose children attend the kindergarten The kindergarten is staffed by a team of 23 qualified and licensed The kindergarten which is provided free of specialists comprising 1 manager, charge to the employee’s children in the 2 shift wardens, 10 teachers, 1 0‐6 year old age group is an ultra modern nurse and 10 child minders to facility with a capacity of 1000 children, ensure the health, education and meeting all the needs of the children. The happiness of the children. kindergarten at Yeşim providees education to some 300 children currently, Yeşim’s kindergarten is open 6 days a week between 07.00‐23.00 with a curriculum in line with the hours. Not only mothers but also fathers are allowed to bring their curriculum of private nursery schools children pursuant to the kindergarten regulations. aiming at supporting personal and social A survey was conducted in 2011 to measure parent satisfaction. The development of the children. results of the survey were communicated to everyone and action for improvement was taken on the basis of these results. Personel development of the children is very important New courses were added to the curriculum of the kindergarten in 2011 with a view to contributing to the personal development of the children with different topics. According to the new educational programme physical education and drama courses are provided to the 5 year old age group and physical education,English, chess and drama courses to the 6 year old age group. ENVIRONMENT «Yeşim; The Green Factory» Yeşim Tekstil is committed to preserve the environment at each and every stage of production through its environmentally friendly sustainable activities, energy friendly projects and recycling efforts. Environmental awareness in production Yeşim Tekstil has fulfilled its social These activities are guided via the Global resonsibilities since the first day Compact Agreement, SA800, Oekotex of its incorporation, aiming at Standard 100, GOTS and OE certificates. carrying out its production activities in line with the green Activities causing waste water, hazardous factory approach with a view to waste and solid waste generation and air acting as a role model for its pollution are monitored through a customers, contract manufacturers separate Environmental Management and suppliers and raising public System in accordance with the awareness. regulations issued by the Ministry of Forestry and Environment of the Republic Yeşim has fully integrated the of Turkey. environmental projects which have been carried out for years in its The primary environmental objective of business processes. Yeşim is to make sure that each and every project adds value to our employes, These activities which are carried stakeholders and to the public in general out with a human focus are based on to ensure sustainability. viable and improvable systematics in accordance with international standards and monitored through performance metrics. Yeşim Tekstil has allocated TL 650,000 from its total Corporate Social Responsibility budget of TL 1.2 million to environmental projects in 2011. ENVIRONMENT «Our goal ; to reduce consumption in production» Environmental activities of Yeşim are encouraged and monitored by the CEO Şenol Şankaya and the entire senior management team. Environmentally friendly projects in 2011 Projects to be carried out in 2012 *Projects for reducing water and energy consumption in *Sustainable yarn usage the dyehouse The percentage of organic yarns used in production was 17%, ‐Project for saving time, water and energy in preliminary 18% and 30% in 2009, 2010 and 2011 respectively. Efforts are finishing. This project aims at achieving water savings at the initiated to participate in the BCI (BETTER COTTON rate of 30‐35 % per year and energy savings at the rate of INITIATIVE). We aim at participating in this initiative in 2012. 20‐25% per year. *Sustainable cotton usage ‐Project for dyeing with low liquor ratio in the dyeing Projects carried out by COTTON INC AND PE INTERNATIONAL machine. This project aimed at achieving water savings at on cotton were supported by Yeşim who was awarded a the rate of 30% and energy savings at the rate of 25% in the plaque for its good practices. dyeing process. *Carbon footprint studies ‐The project for using ozone in the washing process instead Studies were carried out to determined the carbon footprint of water and chemicals. of a t‐shirt in cooperation with BEBKA –BUTEKOM‐UTİB and Bursa Technical University. ‐Project for water free poliester and cotton dyeing Energy saving projects that were carried in 2011 and the outcomes of these projects ENERGY PROJECT OUTCOME Reduction in CO2 emissions at the rate of -Using Variable Speed Fan Motors in Drying Machines. 1.406.745kg/year. -Using Variable Speed Fan Motor in Ram Machines. Reduction in CO2 emissions at the rate of Electricity Using Variable Speed Fan Motors in the Air Handling Unit in the 1.010.930kg/year. KnittingSection. Reduction in CO2 emissions at the rate of 649.152kg/year. Reduction in CO2 emissions at the rate of -Heat Recovery System Natural 15.000.000kg/year. gas -Replacing the Hot Oil System with Direct Combustion System in Ram Machines. Reduction in CO2 emissions at the rate of 3.250.000kg/year. Coolant Recovery in Horizontal Dyeing Machines-Reducing the Liquor Ratio in Horizontal Dyeing Machines. Reduction in water consumption at the Water rate of 1.782m3/day Before: 1:10 – 1:8 Improvement from 145lt/kg to 110lt/kg. After: 1:8 – 1:6 ENVIRONMENT «Environmentally friendly brands» Yeşim’s environmentally friendly brands represent the production made in the «green factory» concept and the vision of the company. The brand Yeşim Organik was patented in 2010 and the brand Yeşim Recycle was patented in 2011. Targeted achievements from the projects to be carried out in 2012 ENERGY PROJECT OUTCOME Reduction in the CO2 In 2011; ‐Using varible speed control units in the soft emissions at the rate of water and hard water pump motors. 589.783kg/year. *An investment at the Reduction in the CO2 amount of TL 500.000 was ‐ Using varible speed control units in the well emissions at the rate of pump motor. 275.500kg/year. made for the water Reduction in the CO2 treatment system and Electricity emissions at the rate of ‐Compressor automation. energy saving projects. 200.000kg/year. ‐ Replacing the edge starching system in Reduction in the CO2 *Projects that were compact machines. emissions at the rate of carried out in the recent 369.000kg/year. years resulted in natural Reduction in the CO2 ‐Saving electric energy by closing the factory on emissions at the rate of gas, electricity and water Sundays. 550.000kg/year. savings at the rate of 20%, 10% and 25%. Reduction in the CO2 emissions at the rate of ‐Heating the fresh air to be fed into the stenter 75.000kg/year. Natural with hot exhaust gas. Gas ‐ Reducing natural gas consumption by closing the factory on Sundays. Reduction in the CO2 Long term targets; emissions at the rate of 470.000kg/year. *The project for using solar energy for lighting. This project aims at Targets for 2015 reduction in the CO2 emissions at the rate of 287.000 kg/year. Uzu *Recovering more than 50% of the process water *Increasing the share of organic fabric production in the total production to 25%. *The project for recovering the *Increasing the share of yarn manufactured from cotton produced to BCI process water at the rate of 95%. standards in the total fabric production to 20%. This project aims at water savings at *Increasing the share of African cotton in the total production to 4%. the amount of 1.500.000 m3/year. *Increasing the share of recycled fabric in the total fabric production to 5%. ENVIRONMENT «Water is life, we appreciate its value» Yeşim has commisioned its in house treatment plant in 2000, treating and discharging 10.000 tons of water to the nature every day. This plant is one of the first in house examples in the textile sector with its capacity and its construction at international standards. Energy consumption between years 2000 and 2011 Naturel gas consumption ( Kw ) Electricity consumption( Kw ) 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Water consumption ( m3 ) Coal consumption( ton ) 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Efforts will be initiated in 2012 to obtain a No major defect was found during the environmental TS EN 14001 Environmental Management System audits that were carried out in 2011 and no Certificate and OHSAS 18001 certificate. environmental accident was experienced. ENVIRONMENT «Environment is our social responsibility» Yeşim Tekstil carries out numerous initiatives under the scope of its social responsibility in additional to social compliance requirements with respect to the environment. Junior TEMA project Students in the 6 year old age group leave the nursery school as a voluntary member of TEMA since 2011 under the project carried out jointly by TEMA and Yeşim kindergarten. The children receive training on preserving the environment throughout the year in line with the curriculum of the nursery school under the scope of this project and participate in activities and events. At the end of the academic year the children in the 6 year old age group are given badges at the graduation ceremony to symbolise the training they have received and they are enrolled with TEMA as members, and this membership will contunie until they are 18 years old. 60 children who have graduated in 2011 have become «Junior TEMA» members. Projects that were carried out jointly with Tema until now Twin Village Project (Şükriye village‐2000) Sukru Sankaya Commemoration Forest ( 2006) Friends of Recycling Schools Project (2007) Let’s Avert Global Warming (2007) TEMA advertisement published free of charge in the Önce İnsan magazine(2009‐2011) Junior TEMA Project (2011) «Green IT» initiatives carried out by the information Technologies Department of Yeşim Tekstil • BLADE Servers which require lesser space, energy and air conditioning were started to be used in 2008 to initiate Green IT initiatives within the organization of Yeşim. • DELL Vostro products with an environmental approach and LCD monitors were purchased after 2008 to support the Green IT initiative. • We have started to dispose of our electronic waste through certified recycling companies in 2009. (We currently work with the companies Exitcom‐Doğa Entegre) • In 2012 we plan to rearrange the system room to make it compatible with the standards in an effort to take a further step under the scope of the Green IT initiative. ENVIRONMENT «Environmentally friendly production» Yeşim Tekstil aims at reducing the adverse impacts of the products it manufactures on the environment, during their life cycle, to the extent possible. To this end Yeşim Tekstil engages in alternative efforts for environmentally friendly products and endeavours to consume resources to a lesser extent, to recycle and reuse the products. Wastes are collected safely ‐Used vegetal oils collected at canteen. Used vegetal ‐Fluorescent lamps are collected in safe containers and oils given without cost to licensed recycling companies. separated from other wastes. Send to IZAYDAS and waiting for the acceptance. Fluorescent lamps are ‐Oily rags are collected separately from other wastes temporarily stored at waste storage area. at maintenance departments. Disposed at cement factories or disposing facilities (IZAYDAS). Oily rags ‐Used electrical equipments are collected in labeled are sent to IZAYDAS (national waste disposing facility). containers at waste storage area. Applied to a licensed recycling company and the application has accepted. ‐Contaminated barrels, chemical containers, IBC’s are Waste electrical equipments are collected at the sent to hazardous waste area (temporarily) from hazardous waste storage area. When the waste quota chemical and dye preparing areas. Contaminated gets full, electrical wastes are sent to the licensed barrels, chemical containers, IBC’s are transported to recycling company. licensed recycling facilities by licensed transporting companies. ‐ Medical wastes are taken by the licensed vehicle of local waste company (ERA) Waste papers are collected on a Waste batteries are collected and Waste plastics are collected and regular basis and delivered to licensed delivered to recycling companies delivered to licensed recycling recycling companies. which destroy the batteries safely. companies. SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY «Yeşim is aware of its social responsibilities» Yeşim Tekstil meets social compliance requirements regarding production and also carries out social responsibility projects voluntarily. The social responsibility projects mainly address our employees, the environment, education and sports activities. Travel and Entertainment Club The Clubs encourage personal development Trip to Uludağ (15 January 2011) Trip to Ankara (19 November 2011) Trip to İstanbul (23 October 2011) Yesim Textile has put various social activity clubs into practice for its staff in order to Women and Children’s Club enliven social life and contribute their social and The seminar on “Communication with the children and domestic personal developments. In these clubs, the staff communication delivered by Pelin Kohn (26 January 2011) is organizing different activities voluntarily. “Pregnancy‐ Gynecological Disorders” seminar delivered by M.D. Nuray Kitapçıoğlu (11 March 2011) Fashion Club “2011‐2012 Trends” seminar delivered by WGSN (27 January 2011) “Organic Fashion and Trends” seminar delivered by Nejla Güvenç (17 March 2011) “Designs and Trends” seminar delivered by Günseli Türkay (14 June 2011) “Jewelry Design” seminar delivered by Deniz Kaprol (27 September 2011) “2012‐2013 Trends” seminar delivered by WGSN (26 December 2011) Innovation and Technology Club “Entrepreneurship and e‐Trade”seminar delivered by Murat Yanıklar (3 March 2011) “Cloud Computing” seminar delivered by Hakan Dinçel (17 November 2011) e‐bulletins are published periodically. Futurists Club Seminar with Alphan Manas on “the Future and Entrepreneurship” (10 February 2011) “The 2. Futurists Summit Presentation” was made to Yeşim Tekstil employees. (25 October 2011) e‐bulletins are published periodically. Positive Thinking Club “Positive Management” seminar delivered by Fatmanur Erdoğan (6 May 2011) “Yoga Seminar” delivered by Yoga Akademi (4 October 2011) “EFT” seminar delivered by Oytun Okkır (16 November 2011) “EFT” seminar delivered by Oytun Okkır to a group requesting a special session (20 November 2011) “NLP” seminar delivered by Nuran Boyraz (6 December 2011) “Breathing Techniques” seminar delivered by Mustafa Kartal (29 December 2011) Social Responsibility Club New Year Charity Lottery for the benefit of TEV (30 December 2011) SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY «Yeşimspor introduces youth to basketball» Yeşimspor Club was founded in 2003 with a view to providing wider possibilities for sporting activities to the youth of Bursa and training basketball players for the team. Providing hundreds of children with the opportunity to engage in sports activities, the club has enjoyed considerable success both at local and national level. Achievements of Yeşimspor 2003 – 2004 Season 2006‐2007 Season A Team: 3rd after group semi‐finals in the Regional League A‐Team: 8th in group Young men’s team: 4th in Bursa Young men’s team: 2nd in Bursa Young team: Bursa champions Boys’ team: 2nd in Turkey Boys’ team: Bursa champions and 3rd in Turkey Young boys: Bursa champions Adult men’s team: EBBL Group Champions 2007‐2008 Season 2004‐ 2005 Season Boys’ team: 2nd in Bursa Young men’s team: 2nd in Bursa Boys’ team: 1st in Bursa and 8th in Turkey Young team: 3rd in Bursa Boys’ team: Turkey champions 2008‐2009 Season Young boys: Bursa champions 2nd place in Bursa Domestic League Under‐15 Category Boys’ team: Bursa champions 1st place in Bursa Domestic League Under‐13 Category 2nd place in Bursa Domestic League Under‐12 Category 2005‐2006 Season YOUNG‐AGE ATHLETES’ TURKEY CHAMPIONSHIP (2009) A‐Team: 8th after Play Off Young men’s team: 2nd in Bursa 2009‐2010 Season Boys’ team: Bursa champions and 4th in Turkey 2nd in Bursa in the adolescent and young athletes category Boys’ team: 2nd in Bursa and 4th in Turkey Young boys: Bursa champions 2010‐2011 Season ELEMENTARY SCHOOL YOUNG ATHLETES’ Boys’ team: 2nd Bursa, 13th in Turkey TURKISH CHAMPIONSHIP (2006) Boys’ team: Bursa champions, 10. in Turkey Şükrü Şankaya Soccer School Moral and material support is provided to Şükrü Şankaya Soccer School which was founded by the Professional Soccer Players Association of Bursa in 2009, allowing hunderds of children to engage in sports activities under professional conditions. 30 children were allowed to attend Şükrü Şankaya Summer Soccer School in summer 2011 free of charge under the quota provided to the children of Yeşim employees. SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY «Sharing is good» Yeşim Tekstil considers it as a part of its social responsibility to share its resources and facilities with the society. A helping hand to Van following the earthquake disaster Yeşim has sent 5000 home textile products comprising duvet cover sets, bed sheets and blankets and 10.000 sweat suits for children, gentlemen and ladies to the inhabitants of Van which has suffered an Earthquake disaster in October. Additionally Yeşim employees have donated foodstuff packs of 40 kg provided by the company, to Van. Yeşim employees have sent 5000 kg of foodstuff to Van in the aggregate. Subsequently 350 children’s sweat suits and 300 duvet cover sets were sent to the earthquake area in Van through aid campaign organized by various groups. Institutions and organizations to which products were donated in 2011 ‐250 t‐shirts were donated to AIESEC (March ) ‐300 sweat suits were donated to the Association of Beşiktaş Fans in Bursa. (March ) ‐1000 t‐shirts and 500 sweat shirts were produced for the 23rd of April Children’s Day organized by the Governor’s Office of Bursa. (April) ‐Sweat suits were given to 25 children and recycle t‐shirts were given to 30 teachers as presents for the “This is My Work” contest which is organized jointly by the Ministry of National Education and Tübitak. ( April) ‐200 duvet cover sets and bed sheets were donated to the Turkish Red Crescent.(June) ‐50 sweat suits were donated to the Association of Street Children in Need of Protection (December) Yeşim Tekstil has allocated TL 350.000 from its Corporate Social Responsibility budget of TL 1.2 million to social responsibility initiatives in 2011. SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY «We support education in cooperation with the Turkish Education Foundation » Yeşim Tekstil supports the education of successful young individuals in poor financial standing through the «Şükrü Şankaya Education Fund» which is established in the memory of Şükrü Şankaya in cooperation Şükrü Şankaya‐The Founder of Yeşim Tekstil with TEV . TEV Şükrü Şankaya scholarship fund grows every day TEV Flowers for Special Days The cooperation between Yeşim and TEV in the field of social responsibility continues steadily since 2006. TL 17.000 was donated to the fund in 2011 with the support provided to the Happy Day Flowers campaign of TEV. New Year Charity Lottery for the benefit of TEV Şükrü Şankaya Fund Yeşim aims at including its employees in the initiatives carried out for TEV and to raise their awareness in social responsibility. The new year charity lottery which was organized under the leadership of the Environment and Social Responsibility Club with the participation of Yeşim employees, has raised TL 5000, which was entirely donated to TEV Şükrü Şankaya Fund. Blood donation to the Turkish Red Crescent Supporting the disabled Yeşim employees supported the campaign for collecting Yeşim organizes a blood donation campaign every year plastic lids initiated by various institutions and organizations within the company in cooperation with Bursa Branch of to buy Wheel chairs for the disabled. The same campaign the Turkish Red Crescent in line with its social was extended to the kindergarten with a view to raising responsibility understanding. Bursa Branch of the Turkish the awareness of the children and teaching them to help Red Crescent had visited Yeşim twice in 2011 to draw those in need in their younger ages by making them blood from donors. collect lids. SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY «The name of Şükrü Şankaya lives in education» The mission of Şükrü Şankaya, one of the founders of Yeşim Tekstil who endeavoured his best efforts to support education is pursued by the company. Yeşim Tekstil considers supporting education as a part of its social responsibility. Şükrü Şankaya Primary School Şükrü Şankaya Primary School which was commissioned in 1951 as the only school in the region, was renewed, repaired and modified in 1990 by the late Şükrü Şankaya, the founder of our company upon the suggestion by Bursa Governor’s office. New sections were added to the school in the academic year 2006‐2007. All the needs of the school are met by Yeşim Tekstil since then. About 1500 children received education in this school. Older sections of the school were renewed in 2011. A budget at the amount of TL 25.000 was allocated for these repairs. Şükrü Şankaya Anatolian High School This school which was erected and donated to the Ministry of National Education in 1996 by Şükrü Şankaya, is one of the most successful high schools in Bursa. Yeşim has later added a computer laboratory to the school. The company contributes to the needs of the school in every academic year. Yeşim has supplied the sweat suits of the students and had bought a cleaning robot for the school. A budget at the amount of TL 10.000 was allocated for these expenses. MEASUREMENT «Awareness of our employees is important» The Employee Satisfaction survey which is carried out on an annual basis to measure how the social responsibility initiatives of the company are evaluated by our employees includes questions on awareness. Yesim performs its social responsibilities We are guided by the surveys Yeşim shares the social responsibility initiatives it carries out with its employees through various communication channels. The Employee Satisfaction Survey aims at learning the opinion of the employees on this issue. Action plans are prepared and implemented on the basis of the survey results. Yesim demonstrates high enviromental awareness and take I find Yesim Tekstil’s social volueteering project sufficient actions to protect the environment. and adequate SHARING WITH THE SOCIETY «Önce İnsan (People First) Magazine disseminates the messages of the company » The Önce İnsan Magazine which is the corporate publication of Yeşim Tekstil disseminates the social compliance and social responsibility initiatives to the society. Additionally it publishes information on social responsibility and environment in each issue to raise awareness among its readers on these topics. Dissemination of the Global Compact agreement The following communication channels were used to disseminate the information contained in the 2010 Global Compact report after it was published. • The new report was published on the corporate web page of Yeşim (www.yesim.com). • An article was featured in Yeşim’s corporate magazine Önce İnsan on the publication of the report. The magazine was published in digital medium at the web site The Önce İnsan newspaper which is published only www.onceinsan.com, disseminating this information also on for Yeşim employees raises awareness of our the internet. employees in each issue on the environment, • It was sent to all customers, subcontractors and suppliers as social compliance, occupational health and safety an e‐bulletin. page and gives information regarding the • It was shared by the facebook page of Yeşim, which has developments. around 5000 members. • It was published in the intranet portal to disseminate the The distribution of features on social responsibility relevant information. in the press analysis report issued by Press • It was featured in our corporate newspaper «Önce İnsan» Monitoring Center PRNET is as follows. and shared with all employees. The social responsibility perception of our company in the corporate 2010 2011 reputation analysis report issued by Reputation Analysis Center AVD is as follows: Number of articles Access Number of articles Access Contribution to Sports January 6 103.845 February 2011 March Contribution to Education 1 48 11 3.055.698 April 4 207.621 Contribution to the Environment May 2 42.243 2010 June 1 238.449 Contribution to Health July 6 270.237 August 4 202 Contribution to Culture/Art September 5 113.724 October 2 738.984 November When analysed from the ‘SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY’ perspective it is December 1 475.737 seen that the readers have a positive perception with respect to Total 14 660.531 29 4.836.007 contribution to the environment and contribution to education. SHARING WITH THE SOCIETY We share for a more beautiful world «Information is reproduced by sharing» Yeşim shares the initiatives it has undertaken under the scope of sustainability for a more beautiful world on national and international platforms. Yeşim supports the UN Program Sharing on the international platform Yeşim was invited to a meeting of an expert group by UNIDO under the SME program for the textile and * Yeşim Tekstil participated in the 13th BM öncülüğünde garment industry in Turkey which is carried out under General Conference of UNIDO as a panelist the leadership of the UN. At this meeting which was and explained the social compliance sustainability standards and the initiatives held on March 2011, the objective was to seek the of Yeşim to the participants. opinions of all rings of the textile value chain on corporate social responsibility. * The joint report prepared by the UNGC (United Nations Global Compact), SAI At the meeting which was held on İTKİB’s premises, (Social Accountability International) and Yeşim Tekstil shared it best practices regarding social CIPE (Center for International Private responsibility with other participants, raising Enterprise) featured the interview made awareness on sustainability and the Global Compact with Şenol Şenkaya, the CEO of Yeşim agreement. Tekstil. A message to support social responsibility *The report which was distributed to the participants throughout the world at the Yeşim Tekstil was included in the booklet to be published under the project Global Summit held by UNGC in New York titled Promoting Registered Employment in Textile and Clothing Sector in June, under “the best practices”, implemented in cooperation by the UNDP and İTKİB and funded by the EU as a featured the initiatives of Yeşim Tekstil regarding social responsibility. Please click best practice. on the link below. The vision of Şenol Şankaya, the CEO of Yeşim Tekstil, regarding social http://www.cipe.org/publications/papers/ responsibility and the value added to the company by this vision were featured pdf/CIPE‐SAI‐UNGC_for%20web.pdf in this booklet. This report is currently published in the web page of the United Nations and shared Yeşim attends sustainability seminar on a global basis. Yeşim Tekstil shared its initiatives regarding sustainability in the fourth Corporate Sustainability Certification Program organized in cooperation by http://unglobalcompact.org/AboutTheGC/t ools_resources/labour.html various institutions such as the Regional Environment Center REC Turkey, Boğaziçi University and UNDP in 2011. Yeşim Tekstil one of the few companies This program where Dilek Cesur, the Corporate Communication Manager of selected on a global basis and featured in Yeşim Tekstil participated as a speaker was held at the BTS building in Boğaziçi the video which was presented to all the University. Under the framework of this program which was held as a round participants during the Gala Dinner of the table conference, in addition to Yeşim Tekstil, Coca Cola and HP also shared summit under the best practices. their initiatives regarding sustainability with the audience from various cities in Turkey.
