Communication on Progress April 18 2012 Year 2011 – 2012 Mission Development of Society through Leadership Entrepreneurship Ownership Vision Most admired Integrated Infrastructure Enterprise Company Profile As one of India’s leading companies, Lanco Infratech Limited has been driving growth across a chain of verticals comprising EPC, Power, Solar, Natural Resources and Infrastructure. Today, Lanco is among the top three private sector power developers in India with 4410 MW under operation, 4968 MW under construction, and 7103 MW of projects under development. Focused on fast-track execution of large capital intensive projects, Lanco’s EPC vertical provides world class solutions to its customers. The Infrastructure division of Lanco is developing roads of around 440 Kms on National Highways. Lanco’s solar business is building different verticals across the entire solar value chain including Project Development, EPC, Products & Systems and Manufacturing. Marking its foray into the global resources industry, Lanco has acquired Griffin Coal Mining Company, which owns the largest operational thermal coal mine in Western Australia. As part of its business strategy, Lanco has chalked out an ambitious growth plan – in Power and Solar energy. It also envisages aggressive plans for EPC with a strong order book growth. Global partnerships with top-notch companies such as Genting, Harbin, GE, Dongfang, Doosan, etc have borne rich dividends for Lanco. A people driven organization, Lanco has a pan-India presence and international operations in 12 countries and 20 states in India, with a human resource base of over 8416 people. Lanco is a privileged member of the World Economic Forum . Lanco is recognized for its Corporate Social Responsibility initiatives led by the Lanco Foundation. Strategic Business Units  EPC  Power  Solar  Natural resources  Infrastructure LANCO INFRATECH LIMITED | Sustainability Report 2011 – 2012 UN Global Compact Communication on Progress UN Global Compact Principle Human Rights Principles Lanco’s Position Action Taken Principle 1: Businesses should support and  At Lanco we recognize the impact that  All the employees have access to the respect the protection of internationally can have on the realization of policies through employee Standard proclaimed human rights. fundamental human rights. Operating Policies (SOPs). Principle 2: Businesses should make sure that  Through our business operations and our  Lanco also developed Value statements to they are not complicit in human rights citizenship efforts we seek to help more be adhered by every employee. abuses. people and organization realise their full  We are committed to maintaining a human potential. healthy work environment by protecting  LANCO has the following policies in place the physical and emotional health and in support of the Human Rights. well-being of all employees in the work 1. Policy on HIV / AIDS – The purpose of place. This AIDS policy is a direct AIDS policy is to reassure employees that outgrowth of those commitments. It AIDS is not spread through casual contact provides guidelines for situations when a during normal work practices and to question as to an aids virus-related reduce unrealistic fears about contracting condition arises. There are two major an AIDS virus related condition. This points: policy also protects the legal right to work 1. Employees who are diagnosed with an of employees who are diagnosed with an AIDS virus-related condition may AIDS virus – related condition and continue to work if they are deemed provides guidelines for situation where medically able to work and can meet infection with the AIDS virus is suspected. acceptable performance standards. Our policy is to encourage sensitivity to We will provide reasonable and understanding for employees performance standards and affected with a condition on the AIDS accommodate them reasonably if virus. necessary to enable these employees to continue working. LANCO Infratech Limited – Sustainability Report 2011-2012 2. Recruitment policy and procedures 2. We provide AIDS education for all employees to help them understand 3. Equal opportunity employer policy how the AIDS virus is spread and to reduce unrealistic fears of contracting as AIDS virus – related condition.  Across 10 Lanco Plant sites celebrated the Elder’s Day on 16th December 2011 and 6619 elderly honoured. Outcomes Plans for the Upcoming Year  Trained around 7916 employees of Lanco  16th December will be celebrated as in 20 locations in India on Corporate Elder’s Day Values.  Posters against sexual exploitation of women at workplace prepared and displayed in public places within Lanco  Posters against discrimination of persons with disability prepared and displayed in public places within Lanco Labour Principles Lanco’s Position Action Taken Principles 3: Businesses should uphold the  We respect the Declaration on  Posters against employment of child freedom of association and the effective Fundamental Principles and Rights at labour prepared and displayed in public recognition of the right to collective Work of the International Labour places within Lanco. bargaining. Organization (ILO).  Lanco Foundation CSR posters posted Principle 4: businesses should support the  Lanco does not encourage any forced across all the locations/plants & head elimination of all forms of forced and labour, including child labour. As a policy quarters across the group.compulsory labour. Lanco does not recruit child labour, below  Posters Supporting Education Principle 5: businesses should support the the age of 14.  Providing Safe Drinking water. LANCO Infratech Limited – Sustainability Report 2011-2012 effective abolition of child labour.  Lanco is an equal opportunity employer  Developing the community. Principle 6: Businesses should support the and no discrimination is shown based on  Empowering the disabled. elimination of discrimination in respect of the religion, region, caste, disability and  Promoting health. employment and occupation. sex. Outcomes Plans for the Upcoming Year  Displayed posters in 20 locations  Policy for elimination of discrimination in across all verticals of Lanco. respect of employment of Persons with  Posters Supporting Education disability to be prepared and followed.  Providing Safe Drinking water.  Skill Development Programme being  Developing the community. considered by Lanco Foundation.-It is an  Empowering the disabled. initiative taken, to deliver employability  Promoting health. training & skill building programs to enable “PWDs-(People with disabilities), to be economically independent & contribute to the society at large.  Lanco Foundation will identify agencies/Institutions who provide such training & link the trained PWDs to various economic opportunities. Environment Principles Lanco’s Position Action Taken Principle 7: Businesses should support a Health, Safety & Environment Policy –We  Celebrated World Environment Day precautionary approach to environmental are committed to safeguarding the Health (WED) on 5th June’2011 across 12 challenges. and safety of all our employees and protect locations. Principle 8: Businesses should undertake our environment through: 1,14,740, saplings have been distributed initiatives to promote greater environmental  Institutionalising of HSE management to the community and encouraged them responsibility. process, with HSE organization. to plant them across 12 locations. Principle 9: Businesses should encourage the  Regularly communicating, educating &  WED is celebrated by bringing together development and diffusion of imparting training on safety, health, Village Communities, NGO’s, local forest environmentally friendly technologies. hygiene and environment to all officials & local people. LANCO Infratech Limited – Sustainability Report 2011-2012 employees, contractors, contractors’  36 Green Awards given to villages that staff and consultants or visitors. ensures tree plantation and protection.  Specifying and ensuring high standards of safety & environment at Some HSE actions taken:our site during construction &  Contractor Safety Management operation of our power plants etc.  Developed design check list for the  Evaluating the HSE performance of our contractor. employees & contractors against the  Meeting with all the existing HSE requirements. contractors to explain our HSE  Conducting periodic Audit & Risk expectations & list of supervisors for assessment by competent team. critical hazards operations.  Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) The Health Safety & Environment policy will standardization. be applied throughout LANCO group via a set of documented company-wide and local Recent HSE Activities:policies and procedures.  Workshop with project site Directors-the main objective was to create awareness  We recognize that our activities as on our HSE corporate framework system. integrated infrastructure enterprise have  Contractor Safety Management Trainingan impact on the environment, and Total 24 contractors companies attended prioritize the issue of climate change: the Safety Management Training from  Lanco has Environment Policy in place and around 12 project site locations. are committed to achieve satisfaction of interested parties and protect HSE awareness Programs at Sites:-The environment by generation of Power by objective was to have greater implementing prudent econ-friendly understanding and coordination of HSE methods; and conservation of natural efforts. Provide a support hand to site HSE resources like natural gas and water; efforts to improve the performance. A complying with all relevant statutory and total of 7050 employees attended of regulatory requirements; continual which 5700 are contractor employees. LANCO Infratech Limited – Sustainability Report 2011-2012 improvement in the environmental performance by minimizing the emission, discharges and prevention of pollution; use of environmentally friendly technologies and enhancing environmental awareness among employees, contractors and communities. Outcomes Plans for the Upcoming Year  Lanco received Golden Peacock award for HSE activities for upcoming year:its CSR activities across all plants/sites.  Implementation of 3-layer audit system.  Lanco Tanjore received Golden Peacock  HSE awareness. Award 2011 for climate security.  Visual HSE manual.  Lanco Tanjore received Greentech award  Replenish the already distributed saplings. 2011 for environment protection.  Create environmental awareness among  Lanco Tanjore received Rajiv Gandhi communities around the plant areas in National award 2011 for reduction in and around 10 plant locations. pollution.  Lanco Kondapalli has bagged Environment, Health & Safety (EHS) Award for following best practices for the year 2011. Anti-corruption Principles Lanco’s Position Action Taken Principles 10: Businesses should work against 1. Policy against Bribery – Our core  Whistle Blower Policy introduced across corruption in all its forms, including extortion value being Integrity, Honesty we are all Lanco verticals. and bribery. committed to compliance with  Appointed committees to oversee international anti-bribery standards as implementation of Sexual Harassment stated in the Global Compact and local policy. anti-corruption and bribery laws.  Organized Awareness session at head quarters and was attended by almost all LANCO Infratech Limited – Sustainability Report 2011-2012 2. Policy to curb sexual harassment at the employees across all the verticals in workplace – Lanco is committed to all the cadres. ensure that no employee is subjected to sexual harassment and to this end all steps will be taken to prevent any acts of sexual harassment at the work place. This policy is designed to eradicate all forms of sexual harassment at workplace, to provide a forum for investigation into complaints of sexual harassment and to initiate disciplinary action against those who are found indulging in such acts of misconduct. Outcomes Plans for the Upcoming Year  Whistle blower policy prepared and  Lanco has 8 core values which will be widely circulated within Lanco across all given high priority, and are one of the key the places. factors with which the employees will be appraised.  Integrity being one the core Values and will be given high priority.  Continuous Learning being one of the core value of Lanco Value system, all employees across the group are a part of regular Training programmes conducting across all verticals across the group.  Each employee will have a minimum mandates for training programme which they have to attend in the calendar year. LANCO Infratech Limited – Sustainability Report 2011-2012
