China Mobile 2011 Sustainability Report China Mobile: Enabling A Better Life Creating a Better Future with Sincerity and Innovation China Mobile Communications Corporation Address: Offce 907, 29 Jinrong Avenue, Xicheng District, Beijing 100033, China Fax: +86-10-6600 6167 Website for Report Download: www.10086.cn All copyrights reserved. No reproduction by any means is allowed without acknowledgement. China Mobile Communications Corporation This report was printed on 100% recycled paper. 2011 Sustainability Report CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT Creating a Better Future with Sincerity and Innovation Actively fulfilling our social responsibilities and achieving mutual sustainable development with our stakeholders is a strategic choice for China Mobile to become a company that is built to last. As a communications operator, our network, products and services are closely related to the everyday lives of over 680 million of our customers. As a stateowned enterprise directly controlled by the central government, in addition to maintaining and increasing the value of state-owned assets under our management, we have the responsibility of accelerating the transformation of societal development, playing a more active role in facilitating better lives for people, and building a harmonious society. Based on these considerations, we stick to our core value of “Sincerity Makes Perfection” and have developed a new vision, “Mobile Changes Life”, under the guidance of the Scientific Concept of Development, as China enters the 12th Five-year Plan period from 2011 to 2015. We have integrated sustainability with business strategy and operations, and have developed a distinct sustainability strategy. In 2011, we actively implemented our sustainability strategy by adhering to integrity and focusing on innovation, so as to promote the sustainable economic, social and environmental development of our responsible operations. We strove to win customers’ trust and confidence by adhering to business integrity, improving corporate governance Mr. Xi Guohua by establishing a board of directors, and making continuous improvements to our risk management and internal Secretary of Party Committee & Chairman, control systems. Furthermore, we are committed to preventing corruption by strengthening our corruption prevention China Mobile Communications Corporation system and promoting a high standard of business ethics. We made great efforts to ensure smooth, secure and reliable network connectivity and “consumption transparency” to our customers, and we were strong advocates for a healthy communications culture. We also undertook various measures to narrow the digital divide and to nourish better living with information solutions. We helped bridge the digital divide and met the needs of customers in rural areas and customers with special needs by reducing tariffs, offering more convenient services and more useful applications, and enabling more customers to improve their lives with mobile communications. With technologies such as “Wireless City” and the “Internet of Things”, we expanded Information and Communication Technology (ICT) services into various fields such as mobile health, greenhouse monitoring, mining safety, intelligent logistics, smart home monitoring and others, creating more convenient and better “mobile lives” for people. We promoted the development of the TD technology and played a leading role in growing our industry. By deepening the strategy of integrating the GSM, TD-SCDMA, WLAN and TD-LTE networks, TD technology has now acquired approximately one-third of the market. We also actively promoted the TD-LTE technology and it has become a major global 4G standard. We innovated on our business models and worked together with our supply chain partners to develop new areas and new values for ICT services. Furthermore, we constructed a responsible supply chain that promotes the green development of our industry. We cared for communities and contributed to the development of a resource-saving and environmentally friendly society. Focusing on the needs of disadvantaged groups in society, we launched and implemented a number of charity programs which included providing educational assistance to China’s central and western areas, caring for children orphaned by AIDS, and providing financial as well as medical assistance to poor children with congenital heart disease. We encouraged employee volunteerism and developed an extensive platform to support charitable causes with the participation of the entire society. By managing our impacts on the environment comprehensively, continuously implementing our “Green Action Plan”, and promoting green office and green business, we have successfully achieved our energy conservation and emissions reduction goals. We also actively promoted environmentally friendly ICT applications in order to help our society become more resource saving and environmentally friendly. In 2011, our continuous efforts to pursue sustainability were well acknowledged and recognized by our stakeholders, as indicated by our inclusion in the Dow Jones Sustainability Indexes, and being awarded the “China Charity Award”. However, we humbly understand that there are still a lot of things we can do given the responsibilities upon our shoulders. We must gain better understanding of our role in the overall development of our nation and society, and must better respond to the expectations of our stakeholders with higher ethical standards and greater transparency. We are committed to fully leveraging our expertise in ICT and reaching out to our stakeholders in order to coordinate our efforts to build as well as share the beautiful vision of “Mobile Changes Life”! April 2012 CONTENTS 01 CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT 06 SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY AND 04 ABOUT CHINA MOBILE MANAGEMENT 06 Sustainability Vision 07 Sustainability Strategy 08 Sustainability Management 08 ◎ Enhancing Sustainability Management 10 ◎ Deepening Stakeholder Engagement 12 Sustainability Practices Highlights 2011 13 Adherence to Integrity and 16 Constructing Excellent Network 22 Narrowing the Digital Divide Compliance 16 ◎ Enhancing Network Quality 22 ◎ Narrowing Urban-Rural Digital Divide 13 ◎ Improving Corporate Governance 16 ◎ Enhancing EMF Management 24 ◎ Serving Disadvantaged Groups 14 ◎ Corruption Prevention and Discipline 17 ◎ Strengthening Emergency Communications Support 15 Innovative and Highly-efficient 18 Striving for Customer Confidence 25 Enabling a Better Life with Innovative Operation Information Solutions 18 ◎ Addressing Customers’ Needs 15 ◎ Innovation-driven Development 19 ◎ Ensuring Transparency in Consumption 25 ◎ Constructing “Wireless City” 15 ◎ Specialized Operations 20 ◎ Protecting Information Security 26 ◎ Informationalization Promoting Enhanced Healthcare 21 ◎ Advocating a Healthy Communications Culture 28 ◎ Informationalization Supporting Campus Construction 29 ◎ Informationalization Facilitating People’s Lives 31 ◎ Informationalization Supporting Cultural Heritage 32 ◎ Informationalization Serving Production Management 33 Managing Environmental Impacts 39 Fostering a Harmonious 45 Leading Industry Growth Community 33 ◎ Optimizing Management System 45 ◎ Promoting TD Development 39 ◎ Development Aid and 34 ◎ Reducing Energy Consumption in Poverty Alleviation 46 ◎ Building a Responsible Supply Chain Operations 40 ◎ Supporting Education 47 ◎ Promoting Green Development of the 36 ◎ Enhancing Resource Utilization Industry 41 ◎ Caring for Disadvantaged Groups 42 ◎ Encouraging Volunteerism 37 Promoting Environmental 43 Employee Caring and 48 Pushing Forward to “Go Global” Applications Development 48 ◎ Expanding Overseas Business 37 ◎ Smart Transportation and Logistics 43 ◎ Supporting Employee Career 48 ◎ Fulfilling Local Responsibilities Development 38 ◎ Environment Monitoring and Management 44 ◎ Caring for Employees 49 SUSTAINABILITY 53 INDEXES 55 ABOUT THIS REPORT PERFORMANCE 53 GRI Index (G3.1) 56 FEEDBACK 52 LOOKING FORWARD 54 The UN Global Compact’s 10 Principles Index 54 ISO 26000 Index ABOUT CHINA MOBILE 2011 Sustainability Report 4 China Mobile Communications Corporation (“China Mobile”, “we” or “the Company” for short) was established As of 31 December 2011, on April 20, 2000. With assets exceeding 1 trillion RMB, China Mobile boasts the world’s largest mobile network and China Mobile had subscriber base. ABOUT CHINA MOBILE China Mobile wholly owns China Mobile (Hong Kong) Group Limited. China Mobile Limited (the “Listed Company” over for short) is under China Mobile (Hong Kong) Group Limited and has set up wholly owned subsidiaries in 31 900,000 provinces (autonomous regions and municipalities directly under the Central Government) and Hong Kong SAR, and base stations has been listed in Hong Kong and New York stock exchanges. In 2011, China Mobile ranked the 87th in Fortune Global 500 list, with a leading brand value in global telecom industry, and was included as one of the world’s 50 Most Innovative Companies. over So far, China Mobile has over 900,000 base stations and more than 680 million customers. China Mobile has 680 million received Grade A for seven consecutive years in the State-owned Assets Supervision and Administration Commission customers (SASAC) assessment and was honored “Enterprise with Outstanding Performance” by SASAC. The Company entered Financial Times BRANDZ Top 100 Most Powerful Brands Ranking for 4 consecutive years. The Listed Company was named to the Dow Jones Sustainability Indexes (DJSI) for 4 consecutive years, the only company from Chinese mainland to be selected to this prestigious index. Moreover, to honor its contribution to the public good, China Mobile has been granted “China Charity Award”, the top government prize in the field of charity for 4 consecutive years. China Mobile is a member of United Nations Global Compact. The Company recognizes and strives to observe the 10 principles of Global Compact and joins the Caring for Climate action advocated by the organization. China Mobile is a member of The Climate Group and played an active role in dealing with climate change. Major Recognitions in 2011 China Mobile has received Grade A for seven consecutive years in the SASAC assessment and was honored “Enterprise with Outstanding Performance” by SASAC; We ranked the 87th in Fortune Global 500 list, with a leading brand value in global telecom industry, and were included as one of the world’s 50 Most Innovative Companies; We entered Financial Times BRANDZ Top 100 Most Powerful Brands Ranking for 4 consecutive years, while the Listed Company was named to the Dow Jones Sustainability Indexes for 4 consecutive years, the only company from Chinese mainland to be selected to this prestigious index; We were recognized as an 11th Five-year Central Enterprise with Excellent Performance on Energy Saving and Emission Reduction; We were awarded as a 2008-2010 Advanced Group on Internal Audit in National-wide by the National Audit Office; We were awarded as MWE China Award SOE In-House Team of the Year by Asian Legal Business (ALB), and were the only legal team of state-owned enterprise received the honor; We were successfully recognized as one of China’s Golden Trademarks by the State Administration for Industry & Commerce (SAIC) and the World Intellectual Property Organization (WIPO), and were the only central enterprise received the honor; We received the China Charity for Children Outstanding Contribution Award and have been granted “China Charity Award”, the top government prize in the field of charity for 4 consecutive years; We were awarded a Serious Games Promoting Award by the Ministry of Culture in the section of 2011 China Digital Culture Grand Ceremony at the 9th China International Digital Content Expo; and We were presented with the Wireless Broadband Alliance (WBA) Annual Value Contribution Award for promoting operators agreeing on roaming identification at the conference of GSM Association (GSMA) and WBA. 5 SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY AND MANAGEMENT It is our sustainability philosophy that by upholding our core value of “Responsibility Makes Perfection”, we strive to achieve sustainable economic, social and environmental development in a way that co-ordinates the present and the future and takes into account the interests of ourselves and our stakeholders. 2011 Sustainability Report Sustainability Vision Our strategic vision for the five years from 2011 to 2015 is “Mobile Changes Life”. From the sustainability perspective, it means that we will integrate our sustainable development with ICT development and strive to innovate and enhance our sustainable development capability. In this way, we are going to build a better China Mobile by leveraging on our expertise. With our extensive information communications networks and large selection of powerful mobile applications, we will provide better products and services to lead and meet the market demand for mobilization, broadbandization and informationalization, improve how people live and work, improve the standards of living, enhance the economic and social efficiency, contribute to environmental protection, maximize benefits to daily lives and create more possibilities for people to have a better life. A Better Better Better A Better Mobile Changes Life China Products and Communities Environment Mobile Services A Better China Mobile: In order Better Products and Services: We share their growth. We actively to realize the vision of “Mobile respond to the ever-changing participate in charitable activities Changes Life”, first of all, we business environment by actively and encourage our employees to need to continuously enhance addressing the customers’ needs, engage in volunteer activities, so our sustainable development building customers’ confidence as to make their contributions to capability to achieve the harmonious in our network reliability and the development of a harmonious development of our enterprise, our consumption transparency, society. employees and our industry. Integrity winning customers’ trust with A Better Environment: We actively is the foundation of our existence – reliable products and services respond to climate change we regard integrity as our business and continuously innovating on challenges and pay attention to philosophy and keep on improving personal and industry information managing the environmental impacts our corporate governance structure applications. The convenient of our own operation. In our pursuit and establish mechanisms to products and services enable our of low-carbon development, we prevent and discipline corruptions. customers to improve the efficiency actively build a green industry chain We also keep on improving of their work, improve their quality and promote the green development our operation efficiency and of life and create opportunities for in the communications industry. We innovation mechanisms, enhancing them to enjoy a wonderful life. endeavor to leverage our strengths our potentials of sustainable Better Communities: We strive to and capabilities as an ICT business development and improving narrow the digital divide and provide to develop new environmentally the quality and efficiency of our universal access to information, so friendly products and services and operations with innovations. We as to enable the changing Chinese enable our clients to create a better strive to create a friendly working society to develop in a more fair and natural environment for future environment and explore more inclusive way. While creating values generations. career development channels to for the society, the convenient and enable our employees to work effective communications products happily while realizing the mutual and services that we provide enable growth and values of both our people to realize their dreams and employees and the Company. 6 Sustainability Strategy In 2011, with our vision “Mobile Changes Life” as the guidance, we thoroughly analyzed macro policies and our stakeholders’ demands, set global best practices as our benchmarks, reviewed our sustainability management status and developed the following China Mobile Sustainability Issue Map to guide our sustainable development in terms of seizing opportunities and controlling risks which helped us to identify and focus on 12 key issues that our stakeholders are concerned about. China Mobile Sustainability Issue Map To Seize Opportunities SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY AND MANAGEMENT Attract talents Innovative and Lead industry’s Satisfy Win-win Narrow the digital Support employees’ highly-efficient development customers’ cooperation and divide career development operation needs with value sharing Promote livelihood Pushing forward innovations Promote green improvement and environmental to “Go Global” development of protection with ICT industry Support charity Responsibility Governmental Mobile Shareholders and Makes Employees Investors Authorities and Customers Value Chain Partners Community and Changes Environment Perfection Regulators Life Protect Improve Business Reliable networks Forge a Strengthen EMF employees’ corporate integrity and Trustworthy responsible management rights governance compliance services supply chain Reduce energy Caring for Strengthen risk Prevent and consumption employees' lives management discipline Improve resource corruption efficiency To Control Risks China Mobile Key Sustainability Issues Key Sustainability Issues Sustainability Strategic Actions Adherence to Integrity To improve corporate governance, strengthen internal audit and internal control, prevent legal risks and ensure compliance; and Compliance To discipline corruption strictly and establish a corruption prevention and discipline system; Innovative and Highly-efficient To innovate actively, explore new technologies, develop new models and new areas to expand growth potential; Operation To enhance operation management, reduce cost and improve efficiency; To ensure good network coverage, improve network quality and provide emergency communications support; Constructing Excellent Network To strengthen electromagnetic field radiation (EMF) management and build safe and green networks; To focus on customers’ needs and improve customer satisfaction; Striving for Customer To enhance consumption transparency, protect information security and customer privacy and foster a healthy consumption Confidence environment; To promote rural information services and further narrow the rural-urban digital divide; Narrowing the Digital Divide To address the communication need of disadvantaged groups and provide convenient services and universal access; Enabling a Better Life with To construct “Wireless City” and serve the agricultural production, healthcare enhancement, campus construction and culture Innovative Information Solutions heritage and other industries with informationalization; To continue implementing the “Green Action Plan” and minimize our own environmental impacts with green network, green Managing Environmental office and green operations; Impacts To continue improving resource efficiency with SIM card downsizing and the Green Boxes Environmental Protection Program; Promoting Environmental To promote environmentally friendly information applications and contribute to environmental protection with ICT; Applications Fostering a Harmonious To improve the management of the China Mobile Charity Foundation, support development aid and poverty alleviation and Community organize philanthropic activities in support of education and caring for disadvantaged groups; Employee Caring and To improve career development mechanism and encourage employees’ development; Development To care for employees’ health and take various measures to help employees achieve work-life balance; To promote TD-SCDMA (TD) development, create and share value with partners; Leading Industry Growth To introduce social responsibility standards and requirements, forge a responsible supply chain and lead the industry to going green; To actively expand international operations following the “Go Global” strategy; and Pushing Forward to “Go Global” To actively engage local communities and assume local responsibilities during the process of “Go Global”. 7 Sustainability Management Enhancing Sustainability Management Since the compilation of our first Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) Report in 2006, we have gradually established a scientific and sound CSR management system. We established a CSR Steering Committee that was headed by our chairman as the highest CSR management decision-making body, gradually established a “Company-Provincial Subsidiaries” two-tier CSR risk management system and built related organizational structure and workflows. By conducting regular work on four types of management (i.e. strategy management, implementation management, 2011 Sustainability Report performance management and communication management), we aim to integrate the sustainability management with our day-to-day operational management in an effective way. Milestones of China Mobile’s Sustainability Management Benchmarked with Optimized strategy global standards and with comprehensive continued improving Set up system and dissemination promoted integration Implemented DJSI best Established organization practices as benchmark and enhanced efficiency Completed 2010-2012 Specified strategy and strategy enhancement developed framework Formulated CSR Improved sustainable Set philosophy and management Developed sustainability development capability prepared CSR report Established CSR Steering regulation philosophy and value model enhancement Published the first Committee system CSR report Promoted CSR risk Developed China Mobile’s Implemented Studied on sustainability management system Promoted international CSR view “5 major CSR projects” indicator system cooperation on Implemented a comprehensive Introduced three-bottom sustainability Studied & learnt from promotion of “Culture line concept and specified Conducted first CSR global CSR standards and Explored CSR risk of Responsibility” CSR strategy practices competition Developed inbest practices management depth international Developed CSR indicators benchmarking Commenced the Issued the Group’s Optimized and improved and cooperation compilation of the CSR guidelines Established CSR risk CSR strategy and and continued Company’s management system enhanced the dissemination forging sustainable first CSR report Established CSR and integrated CSR of CSR philosophy development capability management system and management with Formulated initial further implemented business operation CSR strategy and “5 major CSR projects” Prepared management framework CSR report with global standards 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 In 2011, we focused on the following four key management tasks: sustainability benchmarking management, evaluation of sustainability potentials, CSR practices competition and sustainability reporting. Sustainability Benchmarking Management In 2011, we conducted a DJSI benchmark analysis by comparing our sustainable development capability with the DJSI evaluation standards and the best practices in the telecommunications industry to identify our shortcomings so as to further enhance our sustainable development capability management. We established a long-term management mechanism with the participation of every department at headquarters and assigned each DJSI indicator to different departments to be included in their regular tasks. In 2011, we were recognized on DJSI for the fourth consecutive year and were still the only company from Mainland China listed on the DJSI. Meanwhile, we also compared our sustainable development capability with the best practices of global industry peers to identify how we could further improve. 8 Evaluation of Sustainability Potentials To fully evaluate and manage our sustainability potentials, we have been exploring on the establishment of a sustainability indicator system since 2009. In 2011, we explored a new sustainability indicator system (2011 version) that consists of four indicators – operation power, influence power, initiative power and coexistence power, and completed an evaluation on our sustainability potentials and a thorough inspection of the sustainable development capabilities for our 31 provincial subsidiaries. Based on our findings, we formulated an improvement plan specifying objectives, responsible departments and completion timelines to strengthen our sustainability potentials. CSR Practices Competition In order to encourage and promote our subsidiaries’ innovation on CSR practices, we have been hosting the China Mobile CSR practice competitions since 2008 for four consecutive years as an important part of our sustainability perSUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY AND MANAGEMENT formance management. Internal experts and external stakeholders review and select the cases submitted to discover and promote outstanding CSR practices. In 2011, we further enhanced stakeholder participation by inviting external experts as judges at the early stage of the competition, allowing online voting by the employees and public and other means. A number of awards, including “CSR Top 10 Performance”, “The Best Idea” and “The Best Employee Participation”, were granted to winning cases and the award of “The Most Popular Practice Chosen by Employees” and the award of “The Most Popular Practice Chosen by Public” were selected by internal and public voting. Sustainability Reporting We were the first company to release a CSR report in China’s telecommunications industry. Since we released our first report in 2007, we have used it as a platform to understand our progress and weakness in our annual CSR management and to disclose non-financial information regularly. We changed the name of the report to “Sustainability Report” from 2010 to reflect the idea of integrating sustainability management with the daily operational management. It has become an important platform for us to communicate with our stakeholders about the management and progress of our sustainability issues, as well as to collect their feedback and suggestions. The compiling process is also an important management phase for internal dissemination of our sustainability concept and streamlining of our sustainability practices. Our 2010 Sustainability Report was granted the “Global Compact Report Special Style Award” and the “2011 Golden Bee Leader Enterprise Award for Outstanding CSR Reports”. 9 Deepening Stakeholder Engagement It is very important for us to identify our key stakeholders and communicate with them regularly and effectively. In 2011, based on our sustainability strategy, we reviewed and categorized our key stakeholders into six major groups: employees, shareholders and investors, government authorities and regulators, customers, value chain partners and community and environment. In 2011, we continued to strengthen communication with and participation by our stakeholders. First of all, as we issued our first sustainability report, we focused on collecting stakeholders’ feedback by interviewing 18 institutions including professional institutions, industry peers and famous colleges to collect their feedback which have been used as references in preparing the 2011 sustainability report. 2011 Sustainability Report Secondly, we tried to introduce more views of external stakeholders in our sustainability management. We invited external judges at the early stage of the CSR Practice Competition and allowed online voting in the competition of 2011 to further enhance the objectivity of the judges and the participation by the stakeholders. Over a million online votes were collected. In 2011, in light of the vision of “Mobile Changes Life”, we focused on engagement with our stakeholders in the areas such as mobile health, “Wireless City” and the “Internet of Things”. In 2011, we also communicated with a variety of organizations, such as the Climate Group, the United Nations Global Compact, the Global Reporting Initiative and the World Food Program on certain key sustainable development topics. Expanding Research on “Mobile Health” We successfully completed the joint sustainability program with the University of Cambridge on “Mobile Health” in 2011. This program integrated the multi-discipline expert resources of the University of Cambridge with our business operation experience. It explored the global trends in mobile health applications and focused on four categories of applications for mobile health of the next generation. In addition, the program tried to explore the right business model for different mobile health applications and their potential risks and benefits. The program has identified ways to tap mobile health opportunities and the strategies for various parties to participate. The research has significant academic values in further exploring the potential contribution by mobile communication applications to social sustainability, promoting the application and innovation of mobile health applications and exploring development models for mobile health applications in different countries and under different medical systems. Based on this research, we co-hosted a webinar on the topic of “Mobile Health: Medical Applications for Today and Future”. The webinar attracted over 50 experts and industry players from well-known universities and relevant institutions, such as the University of Cambridge, Oxford University, Harvard University, GSMA and World Health Organization, and received excellent responses. In Anhui, we responded to public questions via live radio In Beijing, the research report Mobile Health: Medical Applications for Today and Future conducted jointly by China Mobile and the University of Cambridge was issued 10 Stakeholder Engagement Stakeholders Method of Engagement Content of Engagement Examples of Key Activities in 2011 Report Content Employees Employee Representative Employees’ participation in the Company’s Further opened up the CEO’s 43-44 SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY AND MANAGEMENT Committee Meeting operations mailbox and responded to Training employees’ requests in a timely Protecting labor rights manner Performance reviews Employee career development Employee complaints and Harmonious working environment and feedback prevention of work related pressure Employee survey Shareholders and Release of operational Preserving and increasing the assets Communicated promptly on major 5,13-15 Investors results value events according to information Daily management  Managing and preventing operational disclosure requirements and risks maintained regular communication Regular communication Formulating development strategy and interaction with shareholders meetings Socially responsible investment demand and investors through various means for enterprises Government Authorities Working meetings and Meeting industry regulatory demands Cooperated and promoted 13-14, 18-21, and Regulators reporting  eeting government requirements for M the implementation of strategic 39-41 Exchange meetings implementing CSR cooperation agreement between Compliance management, inspection the Company and 31 provincial Cooperative projects governments and jointly pushed and feedback forward local informationalization Cooperating on philanthropic activities Customers Customer satisfaction Improving network performance Conducted regular surveys on 15,16-32 surveys Improving customer service customer satisfaction, improved  Customer relationship Ensuring the security of customer data service quality and increased management and customer privacy customer perception “Walking into China Preventing spam and unhealthy Mobile” contents China Mobile Membership Club Promoting new ways of Communications with key communications corporate customers Providing disaster emergency assistance Value Chain Partners Industry organizations Industry outlook and potential Held the first China Mobile 45-47 Conferences and forums opportunities App Developers Conference and Joint research and development and opened Cloud Services to all the Working groups experience sharing parties Exchange activities Communicating on CSR management Cooperative projects on CSR Community and Community engagement Improving the lives of disadvantaged Implemented comprehensive 33-42, 47 Environment Media communications groups survey on public CSR awareness Supporting community development in all provinces, understood and Community philanthropy  responded on key issues which the Energy conservation and emissions public are concerned about reduction and environmental protection Improving EMF management 11 Sustainability Practices Highlights 2011 2011 Sustainability Report In 2011, facing the challenges of sustainable development, we further integrated sustainable development into our business operations. With both integrity and innovation, we have achieved great improvements in sustainable development areas. This report will reveal our progress in the following 12 key issue areas, and our regular work on sustainable development is included in the section of Sustainability Performance of this report. Adherence to Innovative and Constructing Striving for Narrowing the Enabling a Better Integrity and Highly-efficient Excellent Network Customer Digital Divide Life with Innovative Compliance Operation Confidence Information Solutions Managing Promoting Fostering a Employee Caring and Leading Industry Pushing Forward to Environmental Environmental Harmonious Development Growth “Go Global” Impacts Applications Community 12 Adherence to Integrity and Compliance Sustainable development is founded on adherence to integrity and compliance. In 2011, we continued strengthening corporate governance and internal control system, promoted the establishment of disciplinary and anti-corruption system on an organizational and institutional level and launched an anti-corruption education to enhance the awareness of and eliminate corruption from our system. Improving Corporate Governance Corporate governance system can balance and restrict negative factors that impede our development, and guarantee Sustainability Practices Highlights 2011 a scientific, standardized and effective decision-making process. We adhered to principles of integrity, transparency, openness and effectiveness, established a strict internal control system and continually enhanced risk management in order to ensure compliance with laws and regulations in our operations. Board of Directors To establish the modern corporate system and ensure that External Directors can play a greater role, China Mobile made great progress in establishing the Board of Directors under the guidance of the SASAC. On September 28, 2011, the SASAC held the working conference on board standardization at China Mobile and announced the official establishment of China Mobile Communications Corporation’s Board of Directors and the list of our External Directors. Currently, the Board of Directors consists of the following members: Mr. XI Guohua (Chairman), Mr. LI Yue (Director), Madam HUANG Wenlin (Director), and Mr. DING Zhongzhi, Mr. YU Ning, Mr. TONG Baoan, Mr. CHEN Geng and Mr. CHUNG Shuiming as External Directors. Internal Audit Core Concept System of Internal Audit of China Mobile The Company and its operating subsidiaries have set up internal audit departments, which independently audit the business units of the Company and its operating subsidiaries. The Company has established an internal audit scope framework and carried out risk investigations on an annual basis. Based on the results of the risk investigations, internal audit projects 3 audit functions are formulated by the internal audit departments on a rolling and annual basis. The internal audit departments conduct independent and objective supervision and assessment and provide advices on the appropriateness, compliance and effectiveness of the business operation 7 audit tasks Adherence to Integrity and Compliance and internal control system of the Company by applying systemized and standardized audit procedures and approaches, thereby assisting in improving the Company’s corporate governance, risk management and control process. Internal Control We adopted the control criteria framework set out in the Internal Control Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO) in establishing a stringent internal control system. At the same time, pursuant to external regulatory requirements and the development and alteration of our businesses and internal management processes, we systematically reviewed the reasonableness and effectiveness of our internal control design. We also explored the idea of establishing a comprehensive risk management system framework which integrates internal control and risk management requirements focusing on high risk areas and key controls of our business operations. Furthermore, we actively promoted the application of management information system for internal control. Through this system, the Company is able to keep itself abreast of the status of internal control compliance in each business unit, enhance management efficiency, and hence reinforce the accountability of internal controls. Legal Risk Management To address both internal and external changes we came across, we continued to improve our legal risk management system in 2011. We analyzed 9 key legal risks such as asymmetric regulation and copyright risks and adopted relevant measures in response, and successfully carried out inspections on the management of corporate legal risks at our provincial subsidiaries. We also actively participated in the policy making process that closely related to our operations, such as the Telecommunications Law (Draft) and the Regulation on Supervision and Management of Listed Companies (Revised). We achieved group-wide sharing of law suits data by implementing relevant alarm and reporting systems. In addition, we also explored methodologies and shared experiences of managing law suits, such as exploring how to prevent intellectual property disputes. We analyzed previous legal disputes and developed improvement suggestions accordingly to further strengthen our business operations and improve the quality of our services. 13 Corruption Prevention and Discipline After a few of our senior management personnel were disciplined for violating laws and disciplines in the last two years, we analyzed how the problem originated and took active measures to strengthen our corruption prevention system and mechanism with a continued focus on prevention and discipline. Innovating on Anti-corruption Education We insisted on establishing a comprehensive system on integrity education that covers all employees focusing on practical contents. Using a variety of training media such as office network, e-training, SMS and mobile papers, we 2011 Sustainability Report organized various anti-corruption and integrity trainings, compiled the China Mobile Anti-corruption Education Plan and incorporated business ethics as part of corporate culture. Strengthening Anti-corruption Systems We organized anti-corruption trainings for senior management personnel and employees holding important positions and required them to sign the anti-corruption commitments. We strictly implemented a senior management personnel rotation policy and enhanced the supervision of senior management of our provincial subsidiaries through inspection tours. We had also issued the Regulation on Sanctions for Violation of Disciplines and Rules by Employees (Trial), and required all of our business partners to sign Business Integrity Commitments and Business Integrity Agreements when participating in procurement projects and executing procurement agreements. Intensifying Complaint Handling Capability We have intensified our management of whistle-blowing of violations of discipline and developed a comprehensive management system to manage complaints. We have also improved our measures for reviewing and investigating complaints and imposed severe penalties on violations. In Shandong, we organized anti-corruption education for local management personnel at mid-level or above 14 Innovative and Highly-efficient Operation The increasing popularity of mobile communications and decelerated development in traditional telecommunications have led to increasingly fierce competition among operators for market share and customers. New mobile internet services have great growth potential but they also bring new requirements upon the mechanism and model in which we operate. Facing the new phase of development and competition, we strive to build our core competencies based on innovations as well as with increasingly centralized and specialized operations. Sustainability Practices Highlights 2011 Innovation-driven Development In 2011, we continued to improve our innovation management and motivation systems to encourage innovation among our employees. We continued to push the development of TD and TD-LTE technologies forward and to promote the transformation of our business model, establishing a new model featuring “Smart Pipe + Open Platform + Featured Businesses + Integrated Interface”. We also explored and promoted M2M (Machine to Machine) technology and the “Internet of Things” and actively developed informationalization applications and integrated applications. New Models Smart Pipe: wireless data traffic revenue reached 44.4 billion yuan with an increase New Technologies of 45% by the end of 2011; Completed 26 TD-LTE patent applications; Open Platform: Mobile Market (MM) achieved 158 million customers and over 630 Formulated more than 20 protocols for the million times of downloads cumulatively; full range of end-to-end commercial and Feature Businesses: Mobile Music, Mobile Mailbox, Mobile Reading, Mobile Video TDD/FDD convergent products; and other featured businesses achieved a rapid growth; and In 2011, took a leading role in setting 55 industry Develop new Integrated Interface: promoted proliferation of smart terminals and achieved standards and participated in 90 projects; technologies software compatible with mainstream operation systems. Submitted 920 research papers to major Promote new models international standard organizations with Expand in new 576 accepted and established 18 research areas New Areas projects with them; and The “Internet of Things”: M2M customers continued to grow in the fields of Filed 857 new patent applications of which electricity, transportation, municipal management, environment, finance and 260 were approved. manufacture; completed the development of applications for 3 industries; and Cloud Computing: established development plan of cloud computing, started systematic construction of cloud services for private business enterprises and public Innovative and Highly-efficient Operation services, launched “big cloud” product pilot scheme and commercial deployment. Mobile Market Provides 3 Platforms Consumer-oriented one-stop sales platform: MM gathers developers and their outstanding applications (such as software, games and themes) as well as ample digital resources (such as music, videos and readings), which allow consumers to experience, download and purchase from different platforms and terminals in real-time; Developer-oriented one-stop service platform: The “MM Cloud” service aggregates resources from China Mobile and third parties. It establishes a closed-loop services process covering the phases before, during and after development, provides developers with a one-stop cloud services platform for developing, testing, releasing, managing, trading and operating mobile internet applications, which effectively reduced the barriers to entry for developers; and Industrial chain-oriented one-stop support platform: Adhering to the principle of “Cooperation by opening up, development through competition”, MM gathers the best aspects of the industrial chain and builds a healthy ecosystem through providing information publication, industry integration and business models for the partners in the industrial chain. Specialized Operations In 2011, we continued to improve our management process and operational efficiency through centralized management and operation. In order to reduce terminal cost, improve operation efficiency and consolidate the industrial chain of mobile terminals, we established China Mobile Group Terminal Company Limited. At the same time, we founded China Mobile International Company Limited, to provide businesses such as international voice services, international roaming and global internet services to continue improving our specialized business operations. 15 Constructing Excellent Network The continuous increase of mobile users and explosive increase in demand for data communications bring new challenges to network capacity and quality. We are committed to building a high-quality mobile network, fully optimizing network quality, enhancing emergency response readiness and maintaining the high level of network reliability and efficiency. Meanwhile, we attach great importance to our EMF management and strengthen the promotion and communication of EMF knowledge. 2011 Sustainability Report Enhancing Network Quality In 2011, we innovated on core technologies, improved our management and incentive mechanisms and made continuous efforts to optimize network structure: We carried out our first third-party survey on customer satisfaction on network quality, created an index of customer satisfaction on network quality, analyzed key factors affecting customers’ perception of our network and continued improving the quality and reliability of our network. We launched a “Network Quality Competition” and discovered a total of 98,268 problems, of which 91,104 were solved with the resolution rate of 92.7%. We summarized a total of 5,404 outstanding cases, technological innovations and best practices. We built the first automatic testing system in China that was able to integrate test data collection and optimization During the 2011 Network Quality analysis together and completed network quality test in 325 cities at and above prefecture level for the first time Competition, with annual test efficiency of over 40 times of the previous manual test. Since the implementation of the system, we have discovered and solved over 44,000 network quality problems. 98,268 In addition, we compiled the Customer Service Manual on Network Related Complaints to increase the efficiency and quality in handling complaints about network problems. In 2011, after undergoing a number of projects such as the problems were discovered “Overall Sampling Analysis on Network-related Complaints”, we were able to specify the ultimate reasons behind each type of network quality complaints. We then established company-wide benchmarks of best practice in 3 areas including problem solving, management process and support mechanism in order to improve network quality. 91,104 In Hainan, with all the 8 base stations in Nansha Islands in operation, our signals now cover the southernmost point of problems were solved the South China Sea, achieving full coverage of all the islands and reefs in Nansha. 92.7% Enhancing EMF Management problem solving rate We have formulated several rules and regulations to enhance our EMF management, promoted EMF knowledge among communities and established a healthy and worry-free communication service. Enhancing EMF Management and Supervision In 2011, we issued the China Mobile Regulations on EMF Management that further systemizes, regulates and standardizes our EMF management. We also issued the China Mobile Regulations on EMF Inspection (Provisional) to review the EMF management performance of 1/3 of our provincial subsidiaries of the Group every year. We have arranged EMF self-assessment and self-rectification among all the base stations and required our provincial subsidiaries to submit EMF management progress report every quarter. Promoting EMF Communication We engaged Beijing University of Posts and Telecommunications in research on the impact of mobile communications EMF on health of biological bodies. We also collected best practices globally and issued a book titled EMF and How to Avoid It, which symmetrically introduced EMF knowledge of mobile communications. Moreover, we had set up a specific section about EMF on our official website introducing EMF standards and its development, as well as an EMF section in our OA system to introduce EMF knowledge to our employees. In Ningxia, we invited some customers in the neighborhood to a site under construction to participate in our EMF measurement. The result, showing that the EMF meter in the base station was only about 1% of that from making a mobile phone call, addressed the customers’ concern. 16 Strengthening Emergency Communications Support In recent years, mobile network has become an important channel of information dissemination and communication. The public has an urgent demand for communications at the time of major events and sudden incidents. We have established a strong emergency management system to provide smooth emergency communications support for major events and emergencies. On one hand, we have strived to provide communications support and services for all major events such as the Xi’an International Horticultural Expo and the 26th Universiade hosted in Shenzhen; on the other hand, we have made great efforts to enhance our capability to deal with various emergencies and natural disasters such as rain, flood, snow and drought to ensure stable and smooth communications. In 2011, we formed the Emergency Communications Leading Team at our headquarters and completed the organizational and personnel preparation and developed the emergency communications management framework Sustainability Practices Highlights 2011 at the provincial subsidiary level. We have developed a regional disaster-specific emergency communications support system that contains 6 major regions according to geographic location, transportation conditions and types of disasters. We clarified the responsibilities of provincial subsidiaries within each region, forming a regional emergency support mechanism that consists of “Leading Bureaus – Collaborating Bureaus – Common Bureaus”. Leading In 2011, for the purpose of emergency response, bureaus and collaborating bureaus are required to establish emergency support teams that respond to different incidents and support scenarios across different regions in China. Moreover, we also improved our emergency plan system, strengthened the disaster resistance capacity of our 4,671 communications network, enhanced our preparedness in emergency supplies and equipment and further improved times that emergency our capacity to provide emergency communications support. response mechanisms In Yunnan, a 5.8 magnitude earthquake happened in Yingjiang county at 12:58 pm on 30 March. We took prompt had been deployed actions to prepare for disaster relief tasks and ensure smooth communications in the disaster areas. In Shaanxi, the International Horticultural Expo had its opening ceremony in Xi’an on 28 April. We made thorough preparation for this event that included engineering and construction, resource allocation, maintenance and optimi320,866 zation. We built 69 base stations and allocated 72 workers in 6 on-site service teams to provide “24/7” services for person-times that the event. emergency response In Guizhou, a mudslide caused by heavy rains cut off the communication connections with a number of townships in personnel had been Wangmo county on 6 June. Our emergency response team worked for more than 10 hours continuously to restore dispatched communications within the area starting from Dayi township, Wangmo county. In Zhejiang, the D301 train from Beijing to Fuzhou collided with the D3115 train from Hangzhou to Fuzhou at 20:27 pm on 23 July. We activated the emergency response system immediately and the first group of our emergency support personnel arrived at the site at 22:20 pm and promptly completed a number of tasks including network optimization, base station off-loading and starting emergency power generation. In Guangdong, the 26th Universiade started in Shenzhen on 12 August. Aiming at the goal of “ensuring a safe event Constructing Excellent Network with no mistake”, we overcame a number of difficulties, such as the large amount of construction work as well as tight schedule, and provided communications support to the game successfully with no significant error, no focused complaint and no network security breach. In Xinjiang, we held emergency communications support In Jiangsu, we organized emergency communications drill In Guangxi, our rescue personnel was delivering fuel for skills competition electricity generating to Liuzijie in Quanzhou county 17 Striving for Customer Confidence China Mobile adheres to its mantra of “Customers are our priority, quality service is our principle”, actively takes measures to respond to and deal with customers’ requests and endeavors to provide convenient services so as to ensure customers’ rights and benefits are well protected. Addressing Customers’ Needs We actively address customers’ needs, reduce tariffs on a continuous basis, strive to provide efficient and convenient services and pay great attention to customers’ complaints. 2011 Sustainability Report Improving Customers’ Satisfaction towards Tariff It has four main areas consisting of sales, select business, sensation and service, which allows customers to enjoy a full range of mobile phone reIn 2011, we set improving customers’ satisfaction towards tariff as one lated services and after-sales service experience. of our major tasks and included this facet into our annual customer satisfaction assessment system as one of the assessment indicators. Strengthening Response to Customer Complaints In order to improve the affordability and promote the use of In order to address the needs of our customers in a timely manner, we communications services, we continued to reduce tariff levels so as optimized our process of collecting and processing customer complaints. to improve customers’ satisfaction. We launched the GoTone Internet We also made dedicated efforts to support frontline employees who package, business traveler package and a number of data service packages directly serve our customers to allow them to communicate with customers accompanying these plans Group-wide. The new plans have lower rates promptly and conveniently. but more minutes volume and Internet traffic volume. In addition, we have also lowered the international roaming tariffs, including voice, SMS and In Hunan, we launched the “Transparent Electronic Complaint Worksheet” data, of 38 countries and regions. We have also introduced several new system that serves all customers. The system allows our customers to check daily roaming data plans for international communication as well as for the processing status of their complaints and suggestions within the last Hong Kong, Macao and Taiwan. 90 days either via SMS service channel or at our web portal, fully satisfying customers’ information access rights and effectively improving their satisProviding Convenient Services faction. We create better customer perception by promoting transformation of the In Liaoning, we improved our complaint handling process with four mechoperation mode in our service halls. anisms: a two-tier monitoring mechanism that monitors the complaints handling process through forwarding the complaints and phone calls; an In Gansu, we created the “First-line Space Station” to explore a new service orange and red two-tier alarm mechanism that monitors complaints and model which offers a full range of services through multiple contact points. media coverage; a supervision mechanism that supervises and follows up The “First-line Space Station” allows integrated service workflows and is suiton major complaints, and a feedback mechanism that deals with the posable for occasions such as move around services in service halls, home-visit to sible remaining issues in the handling process of the customers’ complaints corporate customers, on-site service handling, managers' mobile office and for the second time. new business promotion. Customer waiting time was reduced by 3.2 minutes on average representing an approximately 60% decrease after its application. In Xinjiang, we opened the first mobile phone “4S” one-stop service hall. China Mobile’s 10086 hotline provides professional “24/7” services In Guangxi, we provided “children seat” for customers 18 Ensuring Transparency in Consumption Leveraging on our strong business support system, we provide customers with accurate billing information allowing customers to know what they are spending on. In early 2011, we initiated two new “Transparency in Consumption” services in China: “SMS reminder before imposing charges” and “0000 centralized channel to review and unsubscribe value-added services”. After subscribing to a value-added service, a customer will receive a SMS reminder before the service is billed and he/she can review his/her monthly value-added service usage and unsubscribe any service by simply texting the message “0000” to our 10086 service hotline. These services allow us to better protect our customers’ information access rights and to enable our customers to make informed choices. Sustainability Practices Highlights 2011 At the end of 2011, we announced that from 1 January 2012, new pre-paid customers will no longer have expiry dates on their accounts. Existing customers with expiry date on their accounts can choose to end it by the second quarter in 2012. Optimizing Customer Agreement In 2011, we thoroughly updated and optimized 4 customer agreements that related to service subscription, service transfer, service unsubscribing and customer information gathering. We strengthened the protection of customer rights, such as specifying that the customer has the right to choose third-party value-added products and services freely, and made our responsibilities to customers more specific, such as providing the customer with “free balance checks”. We also further standardized the content and phrases of the agreements to make them easy to understand. In Jiangxi, we fully enhanced our data consumption alert service. We optimized our business support system and improved and added 10 usage alert functions for both customers with monthly service packages and pre-paid customers to tackle the problems of unnoticed data consumption and above-quota data consumption. In Sichuan, we continued to promote the practice of “double refunding for billing error” and ensure an accurate billing system. We also provided customers with accurate, timely, detailed and comprehensive billing information and call records, allowing customers to review and print the information. We were the only “Consumer Education Demonstration Base” named by the Sichuan Consumer Protection Committee in the communications industry in Sichuan. Striving for Customer Confidence In Gansu, we guided customers through our service options 19 Protecting Information Security The incidents of customer information leakage have severely damaged the customer privacy. To avoid the occurrence “5 Bans” for China Mobile of such incidents, we have been making continuous efforts to strengthen information security in our entire network Customer Service with the goal of “developing a world-class information security system”. Do not disclose or exchange customer information; Strengthening Information Security Management Do not send illegal We have been adhering to the “5 Bans” for customer service, strengthening the establishment of systems and information or do not send measures for information security, improving information security evaluation system and perfecting the overall commercial advertisement information security of our network operations. In 2011, we have mainly taken the following measures: 2011 Sustainability Report without customer’s Improving Customer Protocol: In the updated customer agreements on service subscription and on customer consent; information gathering, we added a chapter about “Protection of Privacy and Communications Rights”, specifying Do not subscribe or alter that it is the right of the customer to have freedom in communications and keep communications content secret, services for customer China Mobile is responsible for the security of customers’ personal information and communications information without customer’s and other related content; confirmation; Strengthening Content Management: We developed the Regulations on Customer Information Security Do not collude with, cover Management and the Customer Information Security Control Matrix, specifying the allocation of responsibilities, up or allow providers technological protocols and examination methods regarding information security management, and mapping out of value-added services the control points to conduct information security checks; to disclose customer Compiling Best Practices: We compiled 28 information security solutions from 17 provincial subsidiaries and information, subscribe data formulated the Solutions to Customer Information Security Protection; and information services Formulating Administrative Rules on Information Security: We formulated dedicated administrative rules on for customers, or do other information security for systems involving customer information security such as WAP, MMS, SMS, Smart Network activities that infringe and Network Management System; customer’s rights; and Enhancing Personnel Management: Following the principles of “focusing on key operations, requiring multiple Do not collude with, protect controls and check and balance”, we formulated the “Vault Mode” Management Regulations which prescribed or encourage channel or detailed management requirements on 17 key systems, effectively reducing the risk of sensitive information system partners to give leakage by management and maintenance personnel; and out customer information, Strengthening Education and Training: We organized employee training sessions on laws and regulations with embezzle customer’s regard to customer information security and provided systematic security training to key technological and payment, transfer or close managerial personnel, ensuring all employees understand and comply with the relevant laws and regulations, customer’s account without requirements and policies, disciplines, and regulations on penalties for violations. permission, sell phone number information, as Handling Mobile Malware well as other activities that infringe customer’s rights. To deal with the increasing occurrences of malicious software on the Mobile Internet, we have established a daily malicious software warning and emergency response mechanism involving multiple departments at our headquarters and at the provincial subsidiary level and monitored malwares on the Mobile Internet. Based on the pilot programs conducted at the provincial level, we actively promoted the construction of centralized mobile malware control system allowing centralized identification, analysis and block of malicious software. Working at both the cloud side and the client side, we innovated on the mobile operator-centric “cloud” system that uses the Mobile Internet to In 2011, nearly analyze and detect mobile malware and clean them at the handset side precisely. By the end of 2011, we have identified and dealt with nearly 700 varieties of mobile malicious software. 700 With the arrangements by the Ministry of Industry and Information Technology (MIIT), we established mobile malware monitoring system in both Jiangsu and Guangdong and completed the pilot programs of monitoring and varieties of mobile handling of mobile malware. malware were identified and dealt with In Jiangsu, we have developed an Internet-based active mobile malware prevention system that detects and blocks mobile malware on the Internet. Being able to detect over 3,000 mobile malware from 400 series, the system virtually covers all known mobile malware found in China and has a blocking rate of over 99%. Enhancing Security of New Technologies and Businesses In 2011, we conducted research on security related topics for new technologies and businesses such as cloud computing, TD-LTE and the “Internet of Things” in order to lay out the protocols and technological framework to ensure information security and avoid potential risks. 20 Advocating a Healthy Communications Culture We have established dedicated organizations and allocated specialized personnel to control the dissemination of harmful information with a view of advocating a healthy and green communications culture. Controlling Harmful Content In 2011, on the condition of protecting customer privacy, we took steady steps to deal with obscene content on mobile phones by streamlining management, formulating a centralized strategy and upgrading technologies. By the end of 2011, we had found out and blocked more than 430,000 domain names, which effectively fostered a clean Internet cultural environment and protected the minors’ healthy growth. Sustainability Practices Highlights 2011 Blocking Spam Messages In 2011, we actively explored the centralized model for controlling spam messages to fully enhance our spam control capability. We established a unified databank of strategic guidance and developed a mechanism to update, evaluate and share the information, which preliminarily solved the problem of un-unified standard in blocking spam messages In 2011, we had realized a and the variances in implementation. According to the statistics of 12321 Internet Obscene and Spam Information Handling Center, the percentage of numbers from China Mobile’s network (22%) reported as being involved in spam messaging had reduced by 11% 38% as of December 2011. According to the statistics of our spam reporting platform 10086999, the average monthly decrease in monthly number of reported spam messages in 2011 had decreased by 38% compared with that of last year. reported spam messages on year-toStopping Harassing Calls year basis The increasing popularity of mobile communications has brought convenience to peoples’ lives on one hand. On the other hand, however, the increasingly frequent occurrences of harassing calls have brought troubles to customers. We have adopted various measures to stop harassing phone calls to protect our customers’ interests. In Gansu, we developed harassing calls monitoring system and successfully put it into operation. The system can effectively identify phone calls with high calling frequency (over 30 calls per hour) and calls with extremely short duration (with call duration of 0 second) and curb harassing calls intra and inter network. In Fujian, after the 311 earthquake hit Japan, some people illegally made use of the chaotic situation in Japan to commit telephone and SMS fraud targeting Chinese overseas students in Japan and their families. We tried to alert users through on-site notification as well as sending SMS warnings in collaboration with the police. In Guangxi, our cooperation led to the arrest of criminals running mobile Carrying out Third-party Monitoring phone frauds Striving for Customer Confidence In order to identify irregularities such as using SMS port or numbers to send spam messages and leak customer information, we carried out third-party monitoring of violations and established a closed-loop management workflow that consists of locating, investigating and rectification protocols. In 2011, based on the results of the third-party In 2011, based on the results of monitoring, we penalized 42 partners and among them, we discontinued our cooperation with 24 partners with the third-party monitoring, serious violations. 42 partners were penalized among which 24 partners with serious violations were discontinued cooperation 21 Narrowing the Digital Divide In 2011, in order to further narrow the digital divide, we focused on providing farmers with more affordable communication business and services and launched informationalization applications benefiting farmers’ lives and agricultural production while strengthening the rural network construction. Meanwhile, we have thoroughly considered the special needs of disadvantaged groups, such as the disabled, the elderly and ethnic minorities and made efforts to customize enriching and practical communication and information services for them, thereby expanding the benefits of informationalization to a wider group. 2011 Sustainability Report Narrowing Urban-Rural Digital Divide Narrowing the digital divide and promoting rural development are our main focuses in carrying out social responsibility and promoting sustainability. Targeting at “benefiting farmers through rural communications, distribution and information networks and assisting in building new countryside”, we provide rural areas with “available, affordable and credible” information communication services continuously. Constructing Rural Network In 2011, we further advanced the “Project for villages to have telephone connection” (“Village Connected Project”), In 2011, with our “Village bringing mobile telecommunications to 10,265 natural villages and installing broadband in 4,031 administrative villages Connected Project”, across 15 provinces, including Xizang, Xinjiang and Sichuan in 2011. 10,265 Due to inadequate power supply and poor network transmission quality, we adopted several measures to improve rural network communication quality: natural villages were repaired power supply environment at base stations to improve reliability of the power circuit; connected with mobile telecommunications regularly discharged the lead acid batteries at base stations for assessment purposes to grasp the actual performance of the batteries accurately; 4,031 strengthened the infrastructure maintenance work at base stations to efficiently improve batteries’ lifespan and administrative villages function; were connected with studied and extended base stations’ anti-theft system to reduce theft rate; broadband integrated the infrastructure maintenance resources to promote co-construction and sharing between different operators; studied and developed the “Uninterruptible Power Supply” device to ensure network safety in power failure; and provided more training opportunities to strengthen the construction of base stations’ maintenance team. Making Service More Affordable We launched the “Benefiting Farmers Project” to reduce communication service charges in rural areas continuously and to provide farmers with affordable services. In 2011, we promoted the “Agricultural Support Network” preferential tariff in Jiangxi, Guangxi, Yunnan and other provinces. In addition, we also carried out promotions such as “Free Mobile Phone with Subscription”, “One Yuan Mobile Phone with Subscription” and free intra-network talk to truly bring down the cost of using communication services by local farmers. To address migrant workers’ short-term need for communications during their travels during the Spring Festival period, we collaborated with the Ministry of Human Resources and Social Security and launched the “Spring Breeze Action” for three consecutive years, offering migrant workers the “Two Cities, One Home” discounted roaming package. In 2011, we offered a 60% discount together with free job information and free hotlines. The number of “Two Cities, One Home” customers had increased from 11.87 million in 2010 to 20.1 million in 2011. 22 In Qinghai, our “Village Connected Project” was welcomed by local residents In Guangxi, we provided migrant workers with discounted service packages Developing Rural Information Services We continuously enrich and perfect our “Rural Information Service” businesses, providing a number of sub-services like “Everything Easy”, “Rural Job Search”, “Agricultural Meteorological Service” and “Rural Information Package” covering information involving dozens of areas such as agricultural cultivation, production-supply-distribution, rural administration management and farmers’ livelihood. In January 2011, we launched the 12582 “Rural Information Service” 24-hour hotline to provide customers with live information services about policy news, medical and social security, weather, legal assistances and other live information enquiry services. As at the end of December 2011, the hotline system had been called over 28.5 million times. We actively collaborate with the relevant stakeholders to establish rural information service platform. Under the guidance of the Ministry of Agriculture, we initiated a number of cooperating services, including 12316 “Rural Information Service”, agriculture machine dispatch information service, agriculture information collection and link-up service between agriculture and commerce. In collaboration with the Ministry of Commerce, we established an effective link Sustainability Practices Highlights 2011 between agricultural production and market supply and demand. In addition, we constructed the “Thousands of Villages Market Project” information service platform and combined it with “12582 Rural Information Service”, accelerating the integration and operation of commodity flow, information flow and fund flow in rural areas and effectively expanding rural information service channels. In Fujian, we jointly launched the “Caring about Rural Areas and Benefiting Thousands of Families” program with the provincial agricultural office and other relevant departments where we focused on providing holistic informationalization solutions for benchmarked enterprises from 12 agricultural industry groups in the province. For example, we cooperated In Zhejiang, “Farmer’s Mailbox” helped with Ningde Fishing Association to establish the “Easy Trading Platform”, which shortened the sales process of Ningde farmers with their business fishing industry and provided more room for developing the cross-strait fishery trade. Assisting Modern Agricultural Development We have actively explored the combination of the “Internet of Things” applications and agriculture, adopted greenhouse remote monitoring technology in Anhui, Shandong, Gansu, Xinjiang and other provinces and districts. We also innovated on automatic drip irrigation and water conservancy informationalization, accelerated the transition from traditional to modern agriculture and effectively advanced the sustainable development of agriculture. The “Internet of Things” Promoted Agricultural Water-Saving Irrigation If this technology was In Xinjiang, aiming at solving current problems of water shortage and lower utilization ratio, we were the applied in half of China’s first in Shihezi to develop and apply automatic drip irrigation controlling system. The system advances the wheat fields, it will save development of modern agricultural water-saving irrigation technology from three aspects: 20 billion cubic meters of Automatic drip irrigation: The system can identify irrigation quantity and duration based on collected water per year, which can information of soil humidity and different irrigation requirements of crops. Users can control the achieve the national target Narrowing the Digital Divide automatic irrigation through operating the switches of electromagnetic valves by mobile phones, computers or other terminals; of increasing 100 billion Well-proportioned fertilization: The system can automatically ration nutrient solutions according to the tonnes of grain production different fertilizing needs of crops. Users can also carry out automatic, timely and suitable irrigation and in just one year, and is of fertilization remotely through the system; and great significance to ensure Automatic collections of field information: The system can carry out integrated analysis on the weather, national food security and soil humidity, evaporation, rainfall and wind speed to monitor the growth environment of crops. sustainable agricultural Currently, the automatic drip irrigation controlling system has achieved outstanding results in the following three aspects: development. Increasing production: Using spring wheat as an example, the average yield has reached 583 kilograms per mu (667 square meters) under automatic drip irrigation, with an increase of 243 kilograms compared to regular irrigation. In general calculation, the net income has increased 436 yuan per mu, Zhai Xuejun, growing by 2.3 times; Director of China Semi-Arid Enhancing work efficiency: With the promotion and application of automatic drip irrigation controlling Agricultural Engineering system, the pipeline network has gradually replaced furrows in the field. Compared to regular cultivation patterns, the management quota of a cotton farmer has been increased from 25-30 mu to 80-120 mu, Technology Research with labor productivity growing by 3-4 times; and Center Improving ecological environment: The application of the automatic drip irrigation controlling system has significantly improved the utilization of water resource. As of 2011, integrated with a variety of other water-saving irrigation methods, we have achieved annual saving of more than 1 billion cubic meters. The saved water was used in converting 100,000 mu of obsolete farmlands back to grasslands and constructing 140,000 mu of ecological protection forests, which has transformed 70 kilometers of desert into oasis, promoting the slogan, Huamns march forward while deserts back down . As of December 2011, the system has expanded crops from cotton to winter wheat, spring corn, potatoes, cayenne pepper, soybean and rice. In Shihezi, automatic irrigation had been applied in 9 farms with a total application area of 800,000 mu, which was estimated to exceed 1.3 million mu in 2015. 23 Serving Disadvantaged Groups Promoting informationalization for the benefit of the disabled, elderly and ethnic minorities forms a significant part of our work to comprehensively narrow the digital divide. In 2011, we further developed communications products and services to satisfy the demand of the special groups and provide them with convenient communications and living services. Information Services for the Disabled In Hebei, by collaborating with the government of Baoding since 2010, we have set up the Community Access Solution. We have assigned to each elIn order to help the disabled to easily communicate with others, we derly a free wireless “Community Access Solution” terminal which connected continuously provide them with tariff discounts through customized the housekeeping service platform in the community through positioning packages, free monthly rental and text messages and call charges donations, technology to provide emergency assistance, daily life assistances and caring reducing the communication cost of the disabled. services for the elderly. By the end of 2011, we had assigned 55,000 termi2011 Sustainability Report nals, received more than 290,000 calls through the 12349 hotline and 425 In Sichuan, we established a “Love V Network”, aiming at helping the disrequests for help through the 12580995 assistance platform, successfully abled people in Mianyang City. People who joined the network could directly helping 323 elderly people due to timely rescue services. dial 3 to 6 short numbers to call others and also enjoy huge tariff discounts. We also assigned special account managers to provide door-to-door services for the disabled. As of 31 December 2011, network users had reached 7,140. Information Services for Ethnic Minorities In Shandong, in collaboration with the provincial federation of the disabled and provincial foundation for disabled persons, we launched the “Momentous We show great respect towards the special needs of our customers on Love and Joy in Assisting the Disabled” program. We helped the disabled to languages and religious cultures by launching special information services receive information on education, training, health recovery and human rights to promote the popularity of informationalization and to enhance the protection at home by producing a free information platform, assisted them dissemination of special cultural communication in ethnic minority in securing jobs and improved their living standards across 17 cities in the encommunities. tire province. In Xinjiang, after launching services of “Masher Card”, Uyghur-language Color Ring and Uyghur-language Mobile Paper, we initiated the 12580 Uyghur-language Information Service and promoted it throughout the entire Innovative Information Services for the Elderly province. China is continuing to become an elderly society and the number of “empty In Xizang, we established a Tibetan-language operating platform, marking nest” families has increased significantly. According to the statistics, currently a few innovations in the field of Tibetan-language based mobile application. “empty nest” families have surpassed 50% in both cities and rural areas, We have also developed main stream mobile phone systems covering nearly with the number increasing to 70% in some large and medium-sized cities. 100 mobile phone products which can be written in the Tibetan language, The question of how to care for the elderly becomes more pressing. We have including text messages, news, life knowledge and Chinese-Tibetan translafully considered the need of the elderly in their daily life and innovated on tion service. information services for them through customized terminals. In Shandong, we offered customized “Bright Card” service to visually impaired customers In Guangxi, our employee learnt Hmong language during her spare time and provided the most professional and sincere services to Miao village 24 Enabling a Better Life with Innovative Information Solutions In 2011, we actively promoted the development of the “Internet of Things” and the foundation for developing “Wireless City”. We had already completed the development of the “Internet of Things” applications in the agricultural, industrial and service sectors. The application of these information technologies have brought enhanced convenience to the public, improved production safety and living standard, and achieved higher efficiency in industry developments. Sustainability Practices Highlights 2011 Constructing “Wireless City” We take full advantage of our edge in information technologies to actively promote the construction of “Wireless City”, integrating “Wireless City” with public administration, public services, traffic control, healthcare, education, “Wireless City” is a wireless employment, finance and shopping, as well as advancing the development of mobile media and diversification of mobile broadband information applications. network system which As of the end of 2011, we had signed “Wireless City” strategic cooperating agreements with 31 provinces, autonomous takes advantage of regions and directly-administered municipalities, and 217 cities, and a national coverage had been established generally a number of wireless covering 50 major applications in 10 categories. broadband technologies Regarding specific applications, The location-based services have been or are in the process of being implemented in and covers the whole city 26 provinces, which focus on providing one-stop travel applications combining functions such as surrounding search, or main districts. “Wireless public transportation/driving route inquiry, WLAN hotspots and real-time traffic conditions with positioning ability. The City” aims at connecting development of mobile payment services has been commenced in 29 provinces focusing on applications for paying utility information technologies bills, paying phone bills, making group purchase and booking movie tickets. In Beijing, Guangzhou, Chongqing, Fuzhou, and the Internet whenever Nanchang, Taiyuan, Xi’an and other cities, people are able to visit “Wireless City” to obtain information on hospitals, and wherever possible, doctors and availability of medical appointments as well as to make doctor appointments. developing abundant wireless information applications closely related to government administration, business Improving public services operations and people’s lives, acting as a bridge connecting government Improving government Strengthening public security agencies and their services Enabling a Better Life with Innovative Information Solutions efficiency with customers, offering the public one-stop daily Optimizing investment life information services Reducing cost of administration “Wireless City” environment and providing government and corporate customers with city management Promoting economic Improving standards of living development and industry application services. Narrowing digital divide 25 Informationalization Promoting Enhanced Healthcare Healthcare is a vital social issue closely connected with people’s standards of living. In 2011, we focused on the healthcare industry as one of the main industries to develop corporate customer services and launched pilot programs of informationalization for hospital treatment, community health management and rural medical care in 7 provincial subsidiaries. Informationalization of Hospital Treatment In order to efficiently deal with the problems of long waiting time for making doctor appointments, receiving consultations and obtaining prescription drugs, we have made substantial efforts to build a remote platform for making medical appointment by utilizing our nationwide information services such as the 12580 voice services and 2011 Sustainability Report Mobile Internet, the Internet, SMS and MMS. Currently, our appointment service has been conducted by 22 provincial subsidiaries, with more than 600 class-2 and class-3 hospitals participating in the system. We provide hospitals, doctors and patients with informationalization for their convenient communications, establishing medical digital platforms to promote the mobilization of clinical consultation. In Henan, we established a “3D Mutual Access Platform” for Zhengzhou Renmin Hospital by adopting a series of informationalization applications including: building a database connecting its internal mailboxes with 139 Mailbox to achieve the connection between all departments of the hospital and to implement electronic management of patients’ records; launching the MAS service to enable customers to directly visit the united information platform to acquire medical information through mobile phone; building the “Mobile Calling Center” to provide patients with comprehensive services of emergency treatment, doctor appointment and consultation in order to promote interactions between doctors and patients. Informationalization of Emergency Healthcare In 2011, we further enhanced the research on and application of informationalization in emergency medical treatment, In Anhui, we launched an intelligent which had enhanced the timely rendering of emergency medical assistances. medical treatment program In Shanghai, the government project 120 Medical Emergency Call Positioning System was officially launched with our participation. Using advanced positioning technology, whenever a mobile phone user in Shanghai dials the medical emergency number 120, the caller’s position would be promptly and accurately identified by the emergency center. In Guangxi, we launched the systematic technical research project in relation to medical emergency in both urban and rural areas. The system comprises a call center, a GPS monitoring center, an ambulance terminal and a remote terminal in hospital and includes a number of sub-systems including call control management, ambulance position monitoring, automatic ambulance dispatch, geographical information, voice and video communications and remote medical assistances. The project centralizes the emergency numbers for different hospitals, transmitting data wirelessly in complicated geographical environments and realizing remote information sharing between doctors and patients. By the end of 2011, the system had made 6,669 ambulance dispatches and received 5,247 patients cumulatively. In Guangxi, our employee was demonstrating the Mobile Health system to medical workers at the emergency center of Luzhai Coun26 ty People's Hospital Informationalization of Community Healthcare To benefit the community and streamline the process of obtaining medical diagnosis, we have actively explored and developed information solutions for community healthcare. In Shanghai, we developed a comprehensive solution of “Remote Healthcare, Cooperative Consultation” by providing doctors and medical experts with real-time voice and video conferences to conduct remote diagnoses for patients. The solution also provides community doctors with medical advice and demonstration of medical procedures, which has led to enhanced convenience for local residents. In Jiangsu, we launched the “Community General Practitioner Workstation” which consisted of a service platform, wireless diagnostic equipments and a TD terminal. Following-up on service requests from local residents, the service In Guizhou, by the end of platform arranged doctor visits and provided emergency services to the patients. The examination results from the 2011, with the NRCMS, Sustainability Practices Highlights 2011 wireless diagnostic equipment could be uploaded to the service platform through the TD terminal conveniently. The uploaded information became accessible to doctors and patients alike in real-time. In addition, the platform was able to conduct preliminary analysis of the testing results and saved the information in electronic archives to assist with 1,083 the doctor’s work. The workstation has changed the model how community doctors work and promoted the develtownships were covered opment of mobile community healthcare. Informationalization of Rural Healthcare System 10,256 We devote ourselves to improving healthcare in rural areas through informationalization and helping farmers medical units were overcome difficulties of inadequate and expensive medical services. connected In Guizhou, in collaboration with the provincial Department of Health, we co-founded and promoted the New Rural Cooperative Medical Services (NRCMS) information management system. The system has 10 main functions: participation management, subsidy management, settlement management, business monitoring, fund monitoring, one23.99 million card-pass in the province, decision-making analysis, automatic statistics, five-level (province-city-county-township-vilparticipating farmers lage) connections and information publication. Currently, the NRCMS has covered 72 counties and 1,083 townships, benefited connecting a network of 10,256 medical units and benefiting 23.99 million participating farmers, among which 13.02 million farmers have received claims and subsidies through this platform. In Jiangxi, we developed an Intelligent NRCMS platform focusing on four aspects: raising farmers’ subsidy fund, en13.02 million hancing NRCMS information system, improving network accessibility and building an integrated information service farmers had received platform. As of the end of 2011, we had already signed NRCMS construction cooperation agreements with 28 counclaims and subsidies ties and developed over 3,200 NRCMS access points at the township level, creating strong support for improving farmers’ participation rate. Enabling a Better Life with Innovative Information Solutions Remote Healthcare Opens a New Era for Rural People To alleviate farmers’ difficulties of inadequate and expensive medical service, we launched the first Dedicated High Definition Telemedicine System Project in Shuozhou, Shanxi in March, 2009. Currently, the project has finished the construction of one municipal-level medical and health information center and 19 remote medical diagnosis centers, including 1 municipal-level, 5 county-levels and 13 township-levels. We have achieved connections of multiple excellent medical resources, with functions of remote expert diagnosis, remote medical devices diagnosis, remote doctor visiting, remote education, remote examinations and video conferences. After developing to a certain scale, we will cooperate and integrate with other medical information systems, including the NRCMS, Residents Health Record System, Regional Health Information Platform, Electronic Medical Records and Disease Prevention and Control System to form a large-scale medical information system In Guizhou, farmers received prompt medical in Shuozhou. expense reimbursement with the NRCMS Mr. Zhao is from Xiaoshikou village in Ying County, Shanxi Province. He caught the disease of purpura nephritis when he was 17-year-old. He had received disease control treatment in Beijing and then returned home with continuous medication, but the effects were not good. Considering the high expenditure of further consultation, he decided to accept treatment in the remote medical diagnosis center in Ying County. After careful medical records analysis and medical adjustment provided by nephropathy experts from Women and Children Health Care Hospital of Shanxi province, his condition had improved significantly within a month and he completely recovered in 3.5 months after 4 remote treatments. 27 Informationalization Supporting Campus Construction In order to promote communications and interactions among schools, parents, students and the society, improve information management in schools and enhance the safety of students, in 2011, we actively promoted the informationalization construction in campus. Promoting Educational Interactions In 2011, we continued to expand our “Campus Information Service”. By the end of the year, the “Campus Information Service” had covered more than 115,000 schools, with over 74,000 urban primary and middle schools, 17,000 urban By the end of 2011, with the kindergartens and more than 52.32 million users. 2011 Sustainability Report Campus Information Service, In Tianjin, we worked together with Tianjin Women’s Federation to build the Tianjin On-line Parents School. The platform covers 9 main columns such as news express, care, expert on-line, parent classes and more than 20 subsections, over 115,000 which encourages full utilization of education resources and builds bridge for communications among schools, families and the society. schools were covered In Jilin, we developed the Digital Schools Integrated Information project and established informationalization portal website with content of the latest school news, class selection system and teacher recruitment management system. This over 52.32 million provides students, parents and teachers with integrated information services, which have significantly helped parents gain a comprehensive understanding of the teaching and learning process and promoted efficient communications. users were covered Protecting Campus Safety over 74,000 Based on services such as card-reading identification at school entrances and students positioning by special mobile phones, we further promoted the construction of “Safe Schools” and actively developed more innovative information urban primary and middle applications to establish platforms for parents and students. schools were covered In Shandong, we officially ran the “Safe School Buses” system, which combines a special telephone line with the “Campus Information Service”. Parents can receive SMS about the time and place of students getting on or off school buses, the bus plate number and route information. Parents could also receive reminder messages and the expected arrival time over 17,000 if school buses were late. Meanwhile, the mobile video monitoring device on school buses can also allow parents and urban kindergartens were teachers to learn students’ safety conditions in the buses at all times, providing safeguards for the safety of the minors. covered In Henan, we launched a “Baby On-line” project in Luoyang which provides parents and kindergartens with on-line mobile video services. Parents and the kindergarten managers can learn children’s real-time study and living conditions through their mobile phones remotely and better ensure the safety of the children. We signed a strategic cooperation agreement with the Ministry of Education to promote In Anhui, the customized “Kid’s Phone” developed by us helped protect campus safety informationalization for education for the non-adults 28 Informationalization Facilitating People’s Lives In 2011, we paid our attention to the public’s needs. We developed and provided ample information communication services to build a more convenient lifestyle in the areas that are closely connected with daily lives such as food safety, public payment and transportation. Protecting Food Safety With increasing public concerns about food safety, the monitoring of food quality and safety has played an increasingly important role. In 2011, we further enhanced the promotion of information applications regarding “animal sourcing” and “food sourcing”, placed radio frequency identification (RFID) or two-dimensional bar code labels in food to record Sustainability Practices Highlights 2011 and monitor all stages of food production. Consumers can scan identification codes to obtain information of the food which helps to promote safe consumption. Currently, we have already included 2 billion farmed animals in our “animal sourcing” system which comprises more than 150,000 card-reading inquiry terminals. The system has built a three-dimensional food monitoring network which involves consumers, supervisors and producers, efficiently promoting the animal food monitoring management and related information disclosure. In Ningxia, in view of the sales of fake selenium sand melons, we built a “Ningxia Agricultural Products Sourcing System” platform to record all information in the process from production, packaging, sales to consumption of selenium sand melons. The system can help the relevant government departments to swiftly monitor and investigate the fake selenium sand melons and enable consumers to verify the authenticity of the melons in real time. Diagram of Agricultural Products Sourcing System Internet Enabling a Better Life with Innovative Information Solutions Report collected Central Sourcing information platform Internet Government Production Sales Management Customer Supervision Management Tracing 29 Improving Quality of Life with Services trance tickets, hotels, flight tickets and discount activities and on-line booking based on 3G mobile Internet technology and “Wireless City” platform. We have continued to enrich informationalization applications for individuals Tourists can also learn about related tour information through the positioning and delivered convenience to the public in the areas of making enquiries function. In addition, the “Tourism Information Service” can also realize the about public utilities, payment services and mobile payments. Currently, mutual interactions between tourists and tour groups to enhance safety of residents in a number of cities can register at the “Wireless City” portal travelling. websites to acquire information about water, electricity, gas, social security and housing funds. In some cities, the service of on-line payment has already In Jiangxi, targeting at the public’s traffic problem from large scale traffic been available and has effectively solved the problem of excessive queuing routes transformation in Nanchang, we launched “MyBus” service, allowing and waiting when making payments. residents to check bus’s real-time location, choose travel routes, stations and waiting times, which has solved residents’ difficulties of bus waiting and sigIn Beijing, collaborating with the municipal government, we launched My nificantly improved travel efficiency. Since being online, the service had been Beijing platform for residents using mobile phone’s customized service plat2011 Sustainability Report attracting over 50,000 visits daily. form. The platform covers a total of 59 services in 9 categories, including road condition inquiry, housing fund inquiry, administration mail box, on-line Building Safe Communities people livelihood services, which is an important part of public service construction of Beijing “Wireless City”. We continuously innovated and developed location information application systems which are applied in disaster and emergency reliefs including fire Aiming at migrant workers, we issued an innovative “Mobile Remittance” fighting and flood prevention, contributing to protecting the public safety. service using China Mobile phone numbers as identification for remittance information which eliminated the need to memorize complicated information In Shanghai, we built a fire safety information platform by sending fire safety such as bank account numbers. Furthermore, Mobile Remittance provides knowledge to firemen at all levels through SMS monthly. Meanwhile, we also customers with SMS remittance notes, through which, remittance and assisted Shanghai Fire Bureau in establishing a fire engines position monitorpayment information can be received in a timely manner. The service is ing platform which can track the location and the routes of the fire engines particularly convenient for rural customers who have no bank card. in a real-time manner and provide strong support for the fire relief dispatch and management. Facilitating Public Transportation In Guangdong, we established an intelligent electric fire monitoring system Through the “Wireless City” platform, we provide citizens with traffic based on GIS with GIS system and sound, light and smoke sensing devices, conditions and travel route information to improve public travel efficiency. which can report fire accidents at the earliest opportunity. The system can quickly identify the exact location of fire emergency according to the fire In Fujian, collaborating with bicycle operating companies, we piloted the alarm information, which is important in ensuring timely and accurate disconstruction of “Information Public Bicycle Rental Station”. Based on our patch of fire-fighting and rescue services. Mobile Payment service, we provided residents and tourists with mobile electronic wallet service, allowing convenient bicycle rental, return and payment In Sichuan, we constructed a “Natural Disaster and Flooding Alarm Service” by using the e-wallet card. Meanwhile, we connected the Fujian “Wireless system with the cooperation of the provincial Department of Land and ReCity” with all service channels offering convenient information services such sources to collect and transmit real-time data of remote monitoring, video, as Bicycle Rental Station Finder and Bicycle Availability Check. displacement and rainfall. The system can automatically send warning data to flood fighters’ mobile phones to report information about flooding, rainIn Guangdong, we cooperated closely with the tourism industry under guidstorm and mud slides, which has effectively strengthened the public’s capacity ance of the provincial Tourism Bureau and launched the “Tourism Information against natural disasters. Service” to provide services of inquiries and searches of vacation plans, enIn Gansu, a City Card user was paying for purchase with mobile phone 30 Informationalization Supporting Cultural Heritage Improving the whole nation’s civilization quality and promoting cultural innovation are important objectives for cultural development in the next five years. We promote and develop new media applications including Mobile Paper, Mobile Reading and Mobile TV, enriching the dissemination channels for social culture. In May 2010, we launched our Mobile Reading service, which has gathered more than 270,000 digital products encompassing books, magazines, comics and audio books by the end of 2011, attracted more than 60 million customers monthly and more than 400 million clicks daily on average and formed the biggest reading platform for copyrighted digital products in China. In 2011, China Mobile Reading Relying on Mobile Reading Base and integrating with social hot spots, we held various reading activities, encouraging Platform had Sustainability Practices Highlights 2011 more people to read and promoting the dissemination of classic culture. Held “New Youth Palm Reading Plan” theme activities. Using mobile phones as an innovative means of cultural dissemination and reading, we recommended excellent books and classical reading materials to the working class, over 60 million young white collars and students. visits per month Held large-scaled “Reading Classics to Experience Life” reading activities, integrated and recommended the notable contents about history, literature, biographies, famous Chinese traditional culture, social and technical education from selected books in the mobile libraries. over 400 million Held a series of activities such as “Masters Lecture Forums”, “Masters Face-to-Face” and “Masters Signing Sessions” clicks daily to enrich people’s reading experience in 45 cities including Beijing, Shanghai, Guangzhou and Yan’an. In Zhejiang, in view of the problems of high costs of constructing and managing libraries in enterprises, we launched the “Enterprises’ Palm Library” reading product which features different functions including gift books, recommendations of good books and data statistics. Further, the product also offers the services of customized portals which enable the managers to recommend reading materials to their employees conveniently, fostering a healthy corporate learning culture. In Anhui, we initiated the “Thousands of Websites Creating Civilized Networks” event held by the provincial Department of Communications to advocate for a harmonious and green network culture. With activities such as SMS Relay, we actively promoted a positive mobile phone culture through a variety of channels including SMS, songs and music, Mobile Reading and Mobile Paper. In Hebei, we started the “Red Leaf Club” to maintain close interactions with our customers. Through this platform, we collaborated with the provincial Office of Civilization and other organizations and co-hosted the “Spreading Civilization, In Anhui, the “little journalists” were Praising Our Hometown and Depicting the Future” event, asking our customers to compose and submit SMS messages, experiencing our Mobile TV music, videos and Mobile Reading pieces with the goal of creating a civilized, healthy and positive mobile phone and Internet culture. Enabling a Better Life with Innovative Information Solutions In Guangxi, people used our customized phone to watch media coverage of the World Hakka Conference 31 Informationalization Serving Production Management Leveraging on the advantages of our 3G networks and the “Internet of Things” technology, we provide information solutions of production management and routine monitoring services to industries such as mining, metallurgy, iron and steel, power grid and plant and construction, promoting industrial safety, efficiency and sustainability. Ensuring Production Safety in Mines To improve safety monitoring level and safe production condition in mines and effectively prevent and reduce accidents, we actively explore digital applications in mines and make efforts to gradually realize comprehensive, transparent and dynamic management of the operations in underground mines. 2011 Sustainability Report In Gansu, we devoted ourselves to the comprehensive information project of Developing the “Cloud Platform” to Build an “E Mine” Jinchuan Second Mine and established base stations in the mine, completing In Shandong, we developed a “Safe Production Information Cloud the construction of four main application systems: wireless network coverComputing Platform” for mining companies, built the “E Mine age, underground miner and vehicle positioning, traffic guidance in main and Integrated Information Management System” for each mine and branch roads and time attendance access. We also installed a large screen integrated all of them on the “Cloud Computing Platform” at the display system on the ground to show the number of underground miners and headquarters in order to help the management understand the safety conditions whenever and wherever possible. The “E Mine their positions, quantity of vehicles and their operation conditions, realizing inIntegrated Information Management System” has the following tegrated communications on the ground and underground and improving the five main functions: capacities of underground safety dispatch and emergency guidance. Safety and production data monitoring: We installed underground production environment monitoring devices including temperature transducers, gas concentration transducers and oxygen content transducers. The information will be transferred to the ground monitoring center through communications network which will be analyzed and sent to all the terminals; Miner/vehicle positioning management: We installed RFID in the underground work equipment and fixed card readers in tunnels to realize remotely monitoring, tracking and dispatching miners and vehicles underground; Output statistics: We fixed weighing transducers at coal discharge holes and belt conveyors and transferred weighing data to the statistics platform through wireless networks; Statement management: The information of the production volume can be checked in a real-time manner which includes daily production schedules, daily safety management statements and individualized items such as key project modules and hidden safety hazards solution modules; and Mobile office: We sent notifications to the relevant employees through SMS, provided Company Mobile Paper through MMS, generated statements according to operating data and sent them to the management personnel, filled out various working diaries and sent them to the dispatching platform for consolidation. The system has provided successful advance warnings for more than 30 times with a success rate of 100% since its introduction in the mines in 2010 and has played an important role in safety management. In Gansu, Mine Integrated Information Project ensured production safety of mining operations Enhancing Protection and Preservation of Forests We actively developed information technologies and devices which can execute fire positioning and real-time monitoring and directing to enhance forest security. In Heilongjiang, we launched the “Eye in the Sky” project in Yichun to build a monitoring system integrating the functions of fire monitoring, identification of warning signals and geographical information system. The project could detect fire sources promptly with rotating cameras, transfer clear pictures to the command center and facilitate remote dispatch. With the fire-prevention positioning function, the command center could master the exact positions of the relief teams, their distributions and proceedings to deploy the relief work reasonably and minimize losses caused by fire. At the same time, the system could also record the whole relief process from the beginning to the extinguishment of the fire and keep real and effective historical information in order to improve fire prevention and relief operations. 32 Managing Environmental Impacts China has set the goal of reducing energy consumption by 16% per unit of GDP during the 2011-2015 period. As early as 2009, China Mobile had already committed to reducing electricity consumption by 20% per unit of telecommunications traffic by 2012 compared with 2008 and signed the first Voluntary Energy Conservation Agreement in China’s communications industry. To achieve the above target, we fully implement “Green Action Plan”, to manage our own environmental impacts and improve energy efficiency in operation. In 2011, electricity consumption per unit of telecommunications traffic decreased by 11% compared with the last year, saving electricity of 1.6 billion kWh. Sustainability Practices Highlights 2011 Optimizing Management System In 2011, we continued to improve our environmental and energy management system under the guidance of the ISO 50001 energy management system: Setting goals: We made the China Mobile Energy Conservation and Emissions Reduction Plan for 2011-2015 Period under the guidance of the national and industry reduction goals, specifying our reduction goals and implementation systems for the next five years. Strengthening evaluation: We carried out third-party interim evaluation on our implementation of Voluntary Energy Conservation Agreement in collaboration with China Energy Conservation Association and the Communications Network Operation & Maintenance Committee of China Association of Communication Enterprises. We worked with Det Norske Veritas and Beijing University of Post and Telecommunications and conducted third-party energy efficiency auditing. We also compiled the China Mobile Management Rules for Energy Efficiency Evaluation (Provisional) to make energy efficiency evaluation on base stations, communication equipment rooms and management offices a part of our regular work. Adopting proved applications: We upgraded and adopted energy saving grading standards for equipment and promoted a number of proved technologies, such as smart carrier frequency technology, distributive base station and multi-carrier frequency amplification. We also conserved energy by utilizing natural cooling sources, increasing ambient temperature in base stations and implementing energy efficiency upgrades of data centers and Internet data centers (IDC). Strengthening appraisal management: We included energy conservation and emissions reduction into our appraisal system and broke down the indicators to provincial subsidiaries and lower level. Units and individuals with excellent appraisal results will be recognized and awarded. Enhancing exchange and communication: We launched a nationwide campaign named “Energy Conservation and Emissions Reduction Week” and attended the Second World Low Carbon and Ecological Economy and Technology Fair, Sino-U.S. Green ICT Conference and the China International Exhibition of Innovative Green Technological Products as an energy conservation pilot enterprise. Meanwhile, as a founder member of Green Touch, we were elected to board member and vice chairman of the Service, Application and Trend Committee (SAT), which allows us to better promote energy efficiency improvement work. Conducting Energy Auditing C-Aware Application Study on Carbon Footprint Managing Environmental Impacts In order to make a comprehensive evaluation of our energy We worked together with the University of Cambridge and management and energy conservation and emissions reduction Nottingham University in the UK to conduct a joint research performance, analyze energy conservation potentials and identify project on electricity conservation. The research aims to find a directions for improvement, in 2011, we conducted an energy way to improve the efficiency of the equipments through energy auditing in collaboration with Det Norske Veritas and Beijing conservation in terms of the production environment and to University of Post and Telecommunications. The project team visualize energy consumption information to achieve energy made site visits to 10 cities in Guangdong, Sichuan and Jilin and savings by applying intensive management in terms of the office audited 95 base stations, 32 service halls, 9 multi-use buildings, 9 environment. Meanwhile, the research focuses on developing telecommunications equipment buildings and 8 office buildings. new ICT energy saving innovations based on studies of human The team also audited the documents of three provincial behaviors to raise the awareness of energy conservation and subsidiaries on energy management policies, systems and energy change people’s behaviors accordingly. consumption statistics. In addition, the team developed an energy conservation potential evaluation model to forecast our potential in energy conservation and emissions reduction in the future. 33 Reducing Energy Consumption in Operations We are highly concerned about our own energy consumption and environmental impact in every aspect of our operation. We fully reduce our energy and resources consumption from three aspects including green network, green service and green office. Green Network In 2011, aiming at establishing an energy-efficient green network, we made great efforts to save energy in base stations and equipment rooms and jointly constructed and shared base stations. Intensified the promotion of energy conservation technologies for main equipment: We strived to promote the 2011 Sustainability Report technologies and applications such as base station intelligent electricity saving technology, MCPA carrier frequency, distributive base stations and outdoor equipment cabinet. Built green equipment rooms: We actively implemented air-conditioning energy conservation in equipment rooms and adopted renewable energy to optimize the energy structure. Advanced joint construction and sharing of base stations: We developed appraisal measures and communicated with other operators on base station construction plan to increase the number of jointly constructed base stations and their percentage in newly-constructed base stations. We also made efforts to develop industry standards such as technology requirements for joint construction and sharing of base stations to ensure standardized operation. Base Stations Energy Conservation Equipment Room Energy Conservation Added intelligent electricity saving Conducted air flow optimization of 722 equipment rooms functions to 6.72 million carrier cumulatively, applied condenser water spray cooling technology frequencies; deployed 2.01 million to 4,200 air conditioners; installed grouped air conditioner MCPA carrier frequencies; constructed controller device in 164 equipment rooms; and 620,000 distributive GSM base stations; Installed 220,000 power on/off /dormant switches and 80,000 and installed over 8,000 sets of high-efficiency power switch modules. standardized outdoor base stations; Cumulatively deployed 79,000 base stations and 673 equipment rooms to Green Network utilize natural cooling sources; Cumulatively adopted over 11,000 customized air conditioners, upgraded Joint Construction and Sharing over 160,000 air conditioners to improve Achieved excellent results of joint construction and sharing energy efficiency, applied new additives in major areas: Joint construction and sharing projects were to over 57,000 air conditioners; and completed or under construction at over 40 railways, subway optimized the outward structure of over lines in 16 cities, over 60 expressways, 12 airports, over 40 60,000 base stations; and tourist attractions and over 50 large malls or stadiums; and Constructed 8,970 alternative energy Constructed a total of 12,255 base stations and opened 6,965 base stations cumulatively. base stations for sharing with other operators. In Tianjin, we innovated on adding infrared cameras into our video surveillance system. The infrared cameras can automatically adjust to black-and-white mode at night when lighting is switched off, allowing continuous surveillance in darkness. This upgrade was able to reduce lighting electricity consumption by around 75% at the equipment rooms. Green Service In addition to enhancing operational efficiency and improving customers’ perception, electronic services can also effectively reduce physical resources and result in lower environmental impact. In 2011, we made significant progress of energy saving in business operation by adopting paperless business process and e-billing and the business conducted through electronic channels has reached 76%. China Mobile Green Service Measures Paperless Service Processing Management of E-document E-billing Replacing paper forms with electronic forms; Saving storage space; Promoting e-billing and reducing printing Replacing customer ID photocopies with scanned Reducing labor and materials and sending of paper-based bills; and encrypted electronic ones; incurred during transportation; and Improving internet and mobile phone Replacing seals with electronic ones ; and Simplifying information searching services platforms and self-service Sending e-service notices to customers by SMS/ process. terminals; and MMS instead of paper ones. Sending service updates to customers via SMS/ MMS. 34 Paperless Service Processing Currently, mobile business acceptance receipts and invoices are still processed in a paper-based way and both our customers and we need to keep a set of copies of various relevant paper forms and invoices. This practice not only uses a significant amount of paper, but also makes its storage and searching a difficult task. By adopting paperless service processing, we can reduce paper use, simplify work procedure and improve services efficiency. In Shanxi, we fully transformed into paperless services on the condition of ensuring data accuracy and data security. We actively promoted the use of electronic forms, electronic ID copies, electronic signatures, electronic acceptance seals and electronic information management. By the end of 2011, the transformation into paperless services has been completed in 7,300 service desks of all of the 11 cities in the entire province. About 2.85 million business requests were handled paperless, accounting for approximately 60% of the total service volume. Each set of paper forms used to cost 0.09 yuan, therefore a total cost saving of 2.139 million yuan could be realized from cutting the printing related costs. Besides reducing paper use, paperless service has significantly improved work efficiency and customers’ experience. More than 92% of customers interviewed agreed that paperless service made our service processing more convenient. Sustainability Practices Highlights 2011 1 2 3 4 5 Electronic forms Electronic ID copy Electronic signature Electronic Electronic information Reducing Reducing Reducing number of acceptance seal management paper use and photocopying signatures required Reducing cost for Paperless information, convenient to and convenient and improving making the seals easy to store, lookup use to use processing efficiency and manage Covering the entire business processing workflow Green Office In 2011, we continued to take measures to promote our green office initiative: Upgraded office buildings: We upgraded our headquarters building with intelligent control system, which turns off lights in conference rooms and offices automatically when there is no one there. Some of our provincial subsidiaries also implemented similar projects to reduce energy consumption. Energy saving of office equipment: We required every unit to minimize the stand-by time of office equipment, such as computers, printers and copy machines and turn them off in time if they are not in use for a long period of time or after office hour. We also urged our employees to develop the habit of shutting off lights, computers, power and water when they leave. Office informationalization: We reduced resource and energy consumption by applying information technology in our Managing Environmental Impacts In Hubei, customers signed up for service office work. In 2011, in average, there were over 22,000 person-times logged on to our IP Multi-media Sub-system contracts on a handwriting screen (IMS) daily and the system was used to make 52,000 calls with a total of 434,000 minutes and send 72,000 instant messages daily. Reduced consumption of office supplies: We asked our employees to make effective use of electronic documents transmission system to send, receive and process documents, control the number of printing and copying, try to review and modify draft documents electronically and reduce the number of final proofs. We also required every unit to print on double sides and reuse one-side printed paper. We also tightened our control over purchase of office supplies such as pencils, pens and recycled paper. Fostered a green office culture: We put up posters and flyers about energy conservation and relevant tips in the office to remind everyone to save paper and water and turn off lights when they leave. Promoting Green Building The construction of China Mobile International Information Port follows the principles of utility, economical, appealing and environmentally friendly. In the first two phases, a number of energy saving systems have been adopted, including equipment room excess heat recovering, natural air-cycling, rooftop greening, coldness storage with ice and waste vacuum recycling. In addition, the building realized intelligent control of equipment with technologies, such as intelligent control, network-based control and digital lighting control; reduced carbon emissions by using renewable energy sources, such as underground heat pump and solar power system; and reduced water use by installing ecological lake water cycling system, rainwater collecting system and reclaimed water recycling system, which allow the landscape lake to be replenished 100% by recycled water. In addition, China Mobile Telecommunications Management Academy implemented a geothermal utilization and reinjection project, which extracts 223,000 cubic meters of underground heat water annually and the amount of heat utilized is equal to the reduction of 1,023 tonnes of standard coal every year. 35 Enhancing Resource Utilization In 2011, we continued to promote resource conservation and reduce environmental impacts through adopting minisized SIM cards, recycling electronic waste and other activities. Promoting Environmentally Friendly SIM Cards In 2008, after launching SIM card solutions for energy conservation and emissions reduction, we intensified our efforts in promoting environment friendly mini-sized SIM cards. As of the end of 2011, the market share of mini-sized SIM Cards had reached 50%, and we had issued 1.09 billion mini-sized SIM cards accumulatively. As of the end of 2011, our efforts have cumulatively helped avoid 6,000 tonnes of white pollution, reduce 18,000 2011 Sustainability Report tonnes of production material usage and reduce carbon emissions by 65 tonnes. These results are equivalent to the results of avoiding using 1.3 billion plastic bags. 2011 China Mobile Eco-friendly SIM Cards As of the end of 2011, Started downsizing SIM card packages 1.09 billion after using environmentally friendly materials in producing card bases. As mini-sized SIM cards were of the end of 2011, we have issued issued accumulatively 1.09 billion mini-sized SIM cards Decreased printing by 25% accumulatively. through electronically issuing SIM cards. Eco-friendly 6,000 tonnes SIM Cards of plastic waste were Reduced resource consumption in the logistic and selling process significantly avoided accumulatively with efforts in promoting remote card writing, over-the-air carding writing and SIM card reuse, cumulatively 18,000 tonnes reducing the use of 200 million SIM cards. of production material usage were reduced accumulatively Electronic Waste Recycling 65 tonnes We have been strengthening our efforts in recycle of used batteries. In 2011, we had a total of 95.88 million ampere hours of batteries recycled by specialized channels. Meanwhile, we continued to carry out Green Boxes in Community of carbon emissions were Campaign, encouraging our provincial subsidiaries to take united actions and carry out community visits to recycle reduced accumulatively unwanted mobile phones and batteries as well as promote the development of a green culture. In Guangdong, we continued to expand the coverage of the Green Boxes Environmental Protection Program. As of the end of 2011, there were 1,277 self-owned service halls above county-level that had set up Green Boxes, reaching a coverage rage of 100%. A total of 62,427 pieces of unwanted mobile phones, batteries and other accessories had been collected. In addition, we continued to improve the process of dealing with used batteries in terms of their collection and handling. As of the end of 2011, we had disposed and recycled a total of 191,870 pieces of batteries in the entire province. Regarding SIM recycling, we started recycling and reusing SIM cards in bulk. As of the end of 2011, we had recycled 85,000 SIM cards in the entire province, among which 52,000 were reused. In Tianjin, we took the opportunity of the 42nd Earth Day to call on the community to participate in the recycling of unwanted mobile phones, batteries and accessories. In this campaign, over 200 of our service halls set up Green Boxes to collect unwanted mobile phones and batteries. We also provided 10,000 gifts to local residents who participated in the event. 36 Promoting Environmental Applications With the rapid development of industrialization and urbanization in China, energy conservation and emissions reduction has become a common challenge faced by the society. In 2011, we actively innovated on and promoted environmental applications, fully used location-based services and the “Internet of Things” applications and provided ICT solutions for certain relevant industries in terms of vehicle dispatching, logistics management and pollution monitoring, producing good environmental benefits. Sustainability Practices Highlights 2011 Smart Transportation and Logistics In 2011, leveraging on our location-based services we played an active role in promoting the structural adjustment and change of development mode of the transportation industry. Facilitating Smart Transportation with Location-based Services Providing a platform for traffic Providing standardized Building a vehicle positioning information dissemination and interface, value-added and dispatching platform by channel of communications services such as positioning using the “Vehicle Information with government traffic information and real-time Service” to improve the control agencies; and currently traffic information by using an operational efficiency of providing vehicle dispatching innovative and open system vehicles. Currently there are systems in provinces such as based on cloud service. This 9,000 corporate users with Liaoning, Jiangxi, Anhui and application has covered over 205,000 end users. Gansu. 90% of all industries. Collaborating with upstream Offering real-time traffic and downstream partners information via our 12585 such as auto plants to provide hotline and Mobile Navigation remote vehicle information Service. The “Vehicle Information Smart services, such as navigation, Transportation Service” helps our company information, vehicle safety reduce cost and helps drivers inspection and information of Promoting Environmental Applications surrounding automobiles. shorten their trips. With its statistical function, I do not need to check the mileage or do meter readings of each Vehicle Information Service vehicle. Instead, the system generates statistical data We developed the “Vehicle Information Service” to facilitate transportation, save energy and cost and improve vehicle automatically and saves a dispatching management. We provided our corporate customers with services such as vehicle location monitoring, positioning and dispatching, helping them reduce operational and management cost through effective vehicle great deal of efforts for me. management and optimized resource allocation. By the end of 2011, the “Vehicle Information Service” had provided vehicles monitoring and dispatching services to 205,000 end users of our 9,000 corporate customers. In Guangxi, we installed “Vehicle Information Service” devices on all emergency response vehicles of the Nanning Power Mr. Zhou, Supply Bureau, providing functions including vehicle positioning, fuel consumption monitoring, location tracking and Dispatcher of Guangxi route replay. With this service, users could find out the location of vehicles and dispatch them in real-time, and optimize Nanning Power Supply their resource allocation to reduce fuel usage. Bureau’s vehicle fleet In Shanxi, a citizen was experiencing the “Wireless City” traffic monitoring application 37 Public Transportation Information Service With technologies such as mobile positioning, the public transportation information application enables people to check the real-time information of the public transportation through their mobile phones and set alarm for its arrival, which transforms the way people take public transportation from waiting passively to being informed in advance, thereby facilitating travelling, saving waiting time and improving the usage and efficiency of the public transportation system. The system is currently used by over 1.6 million times each month in Xiamen alone. Parking Lot Availability Information Service The Parking Lot Availability Information Service helps users plan their routes and helps alleviate traffic congestions. In Beijing, our customers can visit the Citizen’s Homepage through mobile phones to check the total number of parking spaces and the number of parking lots available real-time of more than 200 parking areas. 2011 Sustainability Report Mobile Navigation Our Mobile Navigation Service combines navigation services and location-based services. In addition to those basic navigation functions, it offers more location-based services such as traffic information, questions and answers and tourist information services to provide users with a faster, more accurate and comprehensive location-based services. In March 2011, Mobile Navigation was launched commercially across China and so far it has developed nearly 20 million users. Furthermore, it is one of the navigation tools with the most client-end applications, totaling over 1,000. In Anhui, through combining multiple means such as on-site checking and network collection, 12580 services have been continuously enriching information of merchants and bus stations, constructing map information database of every city and providing guiding services for the public such as merchants positioning queries, surrounding information inquires, information on bus transfers, routes and stations queries, as well as driving guidance. The query results can even be sent to the user’s mobile phone in the form of MMS map. So far, this service has covered 8 cities with over 60,000 times of guiding services per month on average. In Fujian, customers were able to trace locations of their vehicles with the “Vehicles Guardian” service Environment Monitoring and Management In 2011, we actively developed environmental protection applications, established environment monitoring and management system and provided effective ways for protecting water resources and ecological environment, as well as improving environmental protection efficiency. In Zhejiang, working together with the provincial Department of Environmental Protection and other departments, we carried out a project to develop an automatic monitoring system to monitor the sources of drinking water in the province. Upon completion, the system could monitor the water quality of centralized sources of drinking water at above the county level within the province and send warnings automatically, ensuring the safety and quality of the centralized sources of drinking water to a considerable extent. In Hebei, cooperating with the provincial Department of Environmental Protection, we developed a smartphone-based platform for mobile environmental law enforcement with the functions such as real-time query, on-site law enforcement assistance, verification of law enforcement and mobile office. Environmental law enforcement personnel can, through their mobile phones, conduct real-time enquiry, calculation and examination of automatic monitoring condition, operational data and construction projects of major polluters. They can also conduct on-site verification at power plants and waste disposal sites. By the end of 2011, a total of 230 mobile law enforcement terminals had been put into use. 38 Fostering a Harmonious Community Philanthropy is playing an important role in supporting and improving people’s lives. In the next 5 years, China is faced with arduous tasks in improving living standards, which provides significant opportunities as well as challenges to philanthropy in China. Under this circumstance, China Mobile has further improved the management of the China Mobile Charity Foundation, accomplished the formulation of the Foundation’s Three-year Development Plan (2011-2013) and focused our philanthropic activities on education for disadvantaged groups, health-care assistance, environmental protection and disaster relief. While striving to carry out charitable activities, we actively encouraged our employees to do volunteering work and participate in Sustainability Practices Highlights 2011 philanthropic activities to promote harmonious development of the society. In 2011, we received “China Children Charity Award – Outstanding Contribution Award” and were awarded “China Charity Award” for the fourth time in a row. In addition, we have made proactive efforts in building an extensive charity support platform based on our vast customer base and extensive service networks. We are currently collaborating with 11 foundations, including China Women’s Development Foundation and China Children and Teenagers’ Fund, to provide their major fund-raising public events with convenient SMS channels for small-amount donations. In 2011, a total of over 11 million yuan donations was collected. Development Aid and Poverty Alleviation We have long dedicated ourselves to providing development aid and poverty alleviation. In 2011, we set up a working group for target areas to facilitate the standardization, systematic development, efficient coordination and smooth implementation of our development aid and poverty alleviation work. Started Contribution Target area Target areas and programs from during 2011-2012 90% to be used in infrastructure construction, education Gaize county, Xizang 2002 42 million yuan and healthcare projects and Ali prefecture grassroots level programs and the farming and pastoral areas livelihood improvement programs Tangyuan county Heilongjiang 2002 10.4 million yuan and communication network and Huanan county infrastructure construction Fostering a Harmonious Community Maqin county in education, health-care and Qinghai 2010 18.9 million yuan Guoluo prefecture infrastructure programs In Ningxia, we had contributed over 3 million yuan accumulatively to support education and poverty alleviation during the last 10 years. Over 5,400 local people in Yanchi county have benefited from the program. In 2011, we included Linjiagou village in Xitan township of Xiji county in the program and contributed 400,000 yuan to support ecologicallyfriendly migration, drinking water, educational support, educational infrastructure and school heating programs, benefiting over 1,800 local villagers and students. In Ningxia, we provided education assistance in Yanchi county 39 Supporting Education Supporting education has always been a key charitable cause for China Mobile. In 2011, we made proactive efforts in building educational infrastructure, training educators, providing financial aid to students in need and initiating student employment and entrepreneurship programs. Developing Educational Infrastructure We kept helping improve the educational infrastructure in poverty areas in central and western China by building “China Since 2006, China Mobile has Mobile Libraries” and multimedia classrooms. Since 2006, we have already built 1,510 “China Mobile Libraries” and 500 cumulatively multimedia classrooms accumulatively. 2011 Sustainability Report built 1,510 Training for Educators We actively carried out the “China Mobile Training Program for Primary and Middle Schools Principals” to improve the China Mobile Libraries capability of educators in central and western areas and help mitigate the disparity in educational resources. In 2011, we arranged the “Shadow Training” for more than 1,000 primary and middle schools principals from 12 500 western provinces. We also provided online training for 10,000 principals from 23 central and western provinces. Since built 2006, we have already trained over 36,600 primary and middle schools principals from rural areas. multi-media classrooms Helping Students with Financial Hardship We committed ourselves to promoting equal education opportunities and helped students with financial hardship gain trained 36,600 educational opportunities and complete their studies through scholarships and work-study programs. principals of primary In Shaanxi, we have carried out the “Care 100” program for 6 consecutive years together with the Communist Youth and middle schools in League Provincial Committee and the provincial Department of Education. We have donated a total of over 10 million rural areas yuan, sponsored 3,016 university students, provided 9,000 university students with intern opportunities at our “M-zone” stores and gave out 22 million yuan as scholarships and financial aids. In 2011, we donated 2.2 million yuan to sponsor 516 new university freshmen students with financial difficulties, with each student receiving over 4,000 yuan. In Liaoning, working together with the provincial government and the Communist of Youth League provincial Commit“Shadow Training” is also tee, we continued our “Care Education” program: launched “Hear the Heart” program and helped 500 children left in called “Experience Training” poverty realize their dreams; carried out “Love Playground” activity, donated sports equipment to 30 financially difficult or “Following Training”. primary school and helped improve situation of serious shortage of sports equipment in rural schools; launched “Entre“Shadow Training” pairs preneurial Lesson” program, invited experienced entrepreneurs from well-known companies to provide entrepreneurial the participants with their lessons and assistance to students from over 50 universities in the province and provided 1,000 internship positions for trainers, experienced students; we also launched employee donation for poor students and financed 94 students from rural areas to complete principals and provides their study. the participants with the opportunity to observe Providing Employment and Entrepreneurship Support how their trainer manages We actively provided university students with employment and entrepreneurial opportunities and helped them ease the the school and gain inemployment pressure. depth understanding of the In late May 2011, we launched the second phase of the Mobile Market Million Youth Entrepreneurship Action (“MM principles, ideas, systems and Entrepreneurship Action”) and forged a value chain of “value discovering – value matching – value realization”. By the management approaches of end of 2011, MM Entrepreneurship Action had cumulatively attracted 1.51 million young people to join, received a total their trainer and the school of 900,000 proposals, conducted more than 700 trainings and established over 70 campus-based development bases. in which they are trained in Many young participants have gained continuous support in developing their capabilities with the focused support of reality. this program. We provide free online learning programs and optional courses to participants and they will be given the “Mobile Internet Development Cultivating stage Engineer” credential that is jointly issued by the MIIT and China Mobile and become a qualified Mobile Internet developer. With the help of experts from the developers’ community, participants can put their ideas into practice using our “incubator” and “capability Growing stage market” applications and test their work with our remote development environment. Participants can sign contract with us and become MM developers. We host social events for developers and provide them with a platform to gain access to various resources, such as project opportunities Maturing stage and overseas application stores. We provide a group of selected developers with funding support to start their own business, and forge the “League of Talents” to help Successful stage job-seeking developers gain job opportunities with major domestic and international companies. 40 Caring for Disadvantaged Groups A fair and just development of society needs the joint efforts of individuals and organizations from the society. We adhere to promoting and achieving inclusive growth by applying our own resources and technologies to help those disadvantaged groups and share with them the development results. China Mobile “Heart” Caring Campaign On 30 August 2011, China Mobile Charity Foundation, Neimenggu Autonomous Region Civil Affairs Department, Teda International Cardiovascular Hospital and Neimenggu Charity Federation jointly launched the Sustainability Practices Highlights 2011 China Mobile “Heart” Caring Campaign – a plan to provide assistance to children with congenital heart disease that live in poverty. China Mobile Charity Foundation contributed 11 million yuan to fully finance the surgery and purchase two vehicles equipped with mobile medical system to conduct screening of congenital heart disease. The campaign aims to help 350 to 400 children with congenital heart conditions within 2 years. By the end of 2011, our mobile diagnosis vehicles had provided screening to 2,991 children and a total of 202 children received surgeries funded by us. This campaign has created a new model for public charity by integrating mobile diagnosis with mobile medical, integrating subsidized surgery with subsidized rehabilitation and integrating aid program with volunteering service. Little Ding is a 5 year-old child from Bayan town near Hohhot in Neimenggu. She was diagnosed with a congenital heart problem when she was 3 years old. Ding’s parents were farmers and their income merely cover their living expenses and it would take them at least another 5 to 6 years to have enough savings for the surgery. On 30 August 2011, our mobile diagnose vehicle gave Ding a thorough examination near her home and she was diagnosed with a congenital ventricular septal defect. On 17 September, Little Ding received a successful surgery and returned home on 28 September. Mobile medical vehicles are equipped with advanced inspection equipment for congenital heart disease Fostering a Harmonious Community Little Ding recovered after the surgery Our volunteer bonded with a child from the caring campaign We continued to work on the “Warm China 12.1 Charity Fund – China Mobile Care Action” program that focuses on children orphaned by AIDS. Since the program was launched in 2008, we have sponsored a total of 15,749 children who By 2011, Warm China 12.1 – China Mobile Caring Action were orphaned and affected by AIDS. program has cumulatively At the same time, we also actively carried out activities caring for the disabled, the elderly, as well as children of migrant supported workers who were left behind in rural areas. In Anhui, we contributed 500,000 yuan and launched the “Community Care” program in collaboration with Anhui 15,749 Social Work Association and other non-governmental organizations. This program provided home-visits, caring, health children orphaned by caring, nursing and other services to the elderly with special needs including single, living alone or in extreme poverty, AIDS or living in being seriously sick or handicapped. We developed a number of information platforms such as the platforms for caring extreme poverty information, services information and assistance information to take care and help elderly people. As of the end of 2011, the program had covered 30 community service units in 7 local communities and served nearly 4,000 elderly people with special needs. In Ningxia, cooperating with the local Communist Youth League and Young Pioneers organizations and the local Department of Sports, we launched the “Communist Youth League Voluntary Service Action: Care for Children of Migrant Workers” and set up “Support Groups for Children of Migrant Workers” to help these children. The groups encouraged our employees to participate by donating money and goods. Our employees used their spare time to tutor, accompany and educate these children and made donations to help them grow up healthily. 41 Encouraging Volunteerism We actively encourage our employees and the public to take part in volunteering activities, help disadvantaged groups and make joint efforts to promote the development of charitable causes. As of the end of 2011, cumulatively, the number of our employee volunteers reached over 90,000, providing over 10 million hours of voluntary services. In Anhui, we continued to carry out the “China Mobile Blue Dream Educational Charity Plan – Care for Children of Migrant Workers Left in Rural Areas”. We built 20 primary schools for children left behind in rural areas and organized more than 700 volunteers to carry out various activities to support education and to help the schools and students hanAs of 31 December 2011, dle difficulties. cumulatively In Henan, we launched the “CSR Assembly Initiative” and developed a “Love Relay” platform to encourage volunteers to actively participate in charitable programs, such as “pair-up” educational assistance, small-amount donation for the 2011 Sustainability Report over 90,000 “Love Relay Fund”, providing “Love Relay” volunteering services, acting as “proxy parents”, sending charitable SMS messages. Over 1,600 of our employees and volunteers actively participated in our initiative. China Mobile employee In Guangxi, in collaboration with Liuzhou Charity Society and other organizations, we launched the “Pass on Love with volunteers Mobile” program in September 2010, focusing on supporting elderly citizens and children of migrant workers. As of the end of 2011, 300 volunteers had received training on volunteering and over 600 volunteers had participated in the over 10 million events we organized of which 12 were large-scale events and 20 were small-scale ones. The program directly helped over 500 people and over 1,000 people benefited from the program indirectly. hours of volunteering In order to help enhance the organizational efficiency and the social impact of our philanthropic activities, we made efwork provided forts to build volunteer management information platforms. In Shandong, we initiated the establishment of the “Love Rizhao” urban volunteer club in Rizhao city. The club engaged itself with a variety of philanthropic activities, such as community service, environmental protection, health care, education support, poverty alleviation, public safety, tourist service, disaster relief and published magazines, newspaper and manuals to promote volunteerism. To date, over 8,000 volunteers have registered at the club with a variety of professions such as students, teachers, government employees, entrepreneurs, company employees and retirees. Supporting Volunteerism with Information Platform In Jiangsu, in order to address the challenges volunteering groups face, such as loose management, inefficient coordination and information asymmetry, we conducted thorough analysis of the information needs of the volunteer groups, their individual members and those they intend to help and developed a “Volunteering Service Platform”. The platform facilitates information flow and enables quick responses once there is a call for help in the community. In Hebei, our volunteers engaged in Allowing volunteer groups to publish information on large-scale public events and regular activities, community services facilitate the communication between volunteers and those who are helped, showcase outstanding volunteering activities through multiple channel including the Internet, Fetion, SMS, MMS and voice. Providing volunteers with convenient self-service functions, such as registering, modifying information, looking-up activity information and total service hours either by login online or via mobile phone connection. Improving the efficiency of volunteer groups by allowing them to centralize management and efficiently match demand and supply side information of volunteering services. In Shaanxi, we organized blood drive among our employees In Guangxi, employee volunteers helped with spreading rice seedlings during the drought 42 Employee Caring and Development As the most active factor of productivity, employees’ development plays a vital role in the future development of a company. We positively innovate on human resource management, protect employee rights, care for their physical and mental health and provide an enabling platform on which they can display their talents. Supporting Employee Career Development Sustainability Practices Highlights 2011 We attach great importance to maintaining harmonious labor relations, protecting employees’ rights, encouraging employees’ development and promoting the mutual development of our employees and the Company. In 2011, China Mobile had delivered Protecting Employees’ rights We strictly abide by the Labor Contract Law, adhere to the principles of gender equality and equal pay for equal work and strive to build a harmonious corporate culture. We have built a fair, just, efficient and flexible labor mechanism to 975,000 improve the efficiency of human resource management and enhance the sustainability of our business. person-times of In 2011, we formulated the China Mobile Labor Management Measures (Provisional), which covers employee categories, trainings in total quantity management and cost management. This policy represents our transition from identity-based management to position-based management. We continued to promote the integration of management in the aspects of position, performance, remuneration and capability management of our employees, so as to construct a fair, just, harmonious and efficient employment environment. 57.4 hours of training per In Beijing, we updated our employee communication platform “Team Blog” by introducing the social network service person on average (SNS) concept into the Company’s community network – the first “Happy Work Network” in China. The network provides a new channel for our employees to communicate among themselves and with the management chain of commands, as well as raise complaints or give feedback. Innovating on Employee Development Mechanism In 2011, we improved a series of employee management and development systems, such as formulating the Management Measures for Exchange Program for Headquarters Employees that encourages employees at our headquarters to enrich their management experiences at grassroots positions. We took several measures to achieve better integration of employee training and career development, including initiating the development of a position Employee Caring and Development qualification system, organizing employee trainings according to position qualification requirements, exploring ways to establish an employee position certification system and kicking-off position certification work for certain job categories. In Ningxia, new employees were showing We modified the evaluation on innovation and scoring system for technical talents. We will establish a certification and their talent during the “Young Eagle” development mechanism for technical experts to promote the integration of the contribution of technical innovation and training program employees’ performance and career development path, so as to motivate employees to innovate proactively and create an encouraging atmosphere for technical innovation. In Gansu, we signed cooperating agreements with Lanzhou Jiaotong University and Nanjing University of Posts and Telecommunications respectively to jointly launch a continuing education program for masters of engineering in the field of electronic and communication engineering. A total of 78 employees were selected from Gansu Province to participate in the continuing education program to improve their learning and working capabilities. In Shandong, we implemented the “New Employee Integrating Plan” and adopted different approaches at different stages, such as employee need analysis, new employee orientation, “one-to-one” mentoring and special cares, to help our employees grow and shorten the process before they are fully integrated with the Company. In Chongqing, we built “Palm School” based on mobile terminals, provided 12 columns with over 300 lessons. Employees could study on their own any content whenever and wherever according to their own demand and interest, which enhanced their ability of self-study. In Shanxi, we organized trainings to help grassroots level managers grow 43 Caring for Employees “Healthy, happy and efficient” employees represent our core competence in our pursuit of sustainable development. Helping our employees to achieve work-life balance is an important aspect in fulfilling our responsibility towards employees. Caring for Employees’ Health We pay close attention to employees’ health and provide them with physical examination on a regular basis and comprehensively promote the Employee Assistance Programs (EAP) service. In 2011, EAP service has covered all of the 31 provincial subsidiaries of the Group. In Guangdong, we held the “Care 100” expert consultation service event, inviting specialized doctors of Guangzhou 2011 Sustainability Report Healthcare Institute to provide in-depth consultation to our female employees and give them health care suggestions that were customized to their individual needs. The event was very popular and 30 people registered on the first day. The expert consultation event was held once a month by inviting experts to our company, enabling our employees to enjoy the professional and convenient service of medical consultation. EAP Service Pyramid In Shaanxi, based on the concept of “Deepening Employee Care” and the topics of our EAP program, “Spirit and Care”, we constructed a pyramid-shaped EAP service system. The system consists of: Basic Service Tier: At this tier, we provide regular services that serve all employees. With support from the experts in psychology, the programs serve our employees continuously. We also use our website to promote mental health concepts in a regular and multi-dimensional way; Elite Training Tier: We establish an internal service support network as the core force to ensure the implementation of the project. 30 EAP experts and 303 “Happy Dandelion” members have worked with external experts to ensure the implementation of the program in a professional way; and Specialized Service Tier: This is a specialized service focusing on providing specialized service to core groups of people. Specialized services for the management have made them the core of EAP projects, while the support and service personnel are also the major targets focused by the psychological help and care. Employee Caring We care for our employees in every detail by putting ourselves into the shoes of our employees to provide caring services and formulate a harmonious and friendly working atmosphere. In Sichuan, we provided pregnant employees with special seats in all dining rooms. In Hunan, we allocated a dedicated office for pregnant employees, named “Office of Happy Mother-to-Bes”, to help them minimize the exposure to decoration pollution during their pregnancy period. In Shandong, we arranged pregnant employees and nursing mothers to a special “Careful Mother Audit Team” and gave them less heavy work, such as binding forms, checking for mistakes and providing supporting services to front desk employees. In Beijing, we held the “Family Open Day and Dragon Festival Gala” event and built an interactive communication platform with programs such as “Heart-to-Heart Connect” and “Chitchats” between the Company and our employees and their family members, contributing to fostering the sense of belonging of our employees. In Beijing, we organized exercising activities for our employees In Shandong, we held employee parent-child contest In Xinjiang, we gave pregnant employees radiation-shielding aprons 44 Leading Industry Growth While the development of ICT has brought broad applications and development opportunities, it has also brought great challenges to traditional telecommunications industries. We actively promote the innovative development of TD industry, build a responsible supply chain and improve the green standard of the industry. Promoting TD Development Sustainability Practices Highlights 2011 In order to support the rapid development of China’s economy and in anticipation of the future needs, we fully leverage on our role in leading industry innovation and make great efforts to promote the maturity of TD technology and its evolved technology. We strive to make TD-LTE become a mainstream broadband technology globally, so as to effectively lead the strong development of the TD industry chain. Expanding TD Network Coverage In 2011, we focused on “continuously improving TD network quality and coverage” and further promoted the “Double 100%” (100% TD deployment among indoor distributive systems with demand for data business, and 100% coverage of TD network over GSM network at outdoor data business hot spots areas). We centralized our resources to further improve the in-depth coverage of TD network in main urban areas. We have basically achieved continuous coverage in prefecturelevel cities, county-level cities and the main areas of counties in China, with an 80% coverage rate of urban areas. Encouraging TD-LTE Innovation In order to ensure the sustainable development of TD technology with independent intellectual property rights of China, we focus on the overall strategy of promoting development of TD-LTE and LTE FDD technologies at the same time as well as their development on the global stage and promote the extensive adoption of TD-LTE technology globally. Industrialization: We organized and conducted scaled-up TD-LTE tests. We serve the development of our industry with these tests and the question banks and industry suggestions help the products to develop and the industry become mature, thereby creating an industrial environment that involves both domestic and overseas companies and with preliminary end-to-end commercial capacity. The first phase test result shows that the TD-LTE end-to-end industry In Anhui, customers were attracted covering system, chipsets and terminals is basically mature and available for use. It nearly reaches the initial level of LTE by the rich variety of TD services FDD being deployed for commercial use, which marks an important milestone that symbolizes the maturing of the TDLTE industry; Technological Innovation: While we are continuously improving new technologies and standards to maintain our Leading Industry Growth competitive advantage in TD-LTE technology, we also focused on demand and developed a number of technological application plans that meet the technological and industrial requirements of its operation; and Globalization: We initiated technological and industrial cooperation with international operators and manufacturing companies. We promoted the establishment of “Global TD-LTE Initiative” (GTI), which had attracted 40 global operators as members. This collaboration effort establishes an international platform to accelerate the development of the industry and promote the commercial deployment of TD-LTE. In 2011, we completed the Phase I task of large-scale construction of TD-LTE trial network in Shanghai, Nanjing, Hangzhou, Xiamen, Guangzhou and Shenzhen, which contributed to the smooth implementation of the national major TD-LTE experiment of the “New Generation of Broadband Wireless Mobile Communications Network” in China. Aiming at developing TD-LTE and LTE FDD at the same time, we have taken a number of proactive measures to prepare for the commercialization of TD-LTE in terms of equipment performance, network technology and terminals. In 2011, the first TD-LTE/TD-SCDMA/GSM 4G multi-mode and dual SIM-card smart phone developed by a coalition of China Mobile and our industry partners was unveiled at the 2011 Universiade in Shenzhen. The phone demonstrated a variety of business applications such as voice call, high-speed mobile Internet and on-line video, signaling the gradual maturing of the TD-LTE industry. By now, the commercial use of TD-LTE has kicked-off all over the world. 5 major operators have launched commercial services and over 10 other operators have specified their commercial plans. 2011 has become the first year of TD-LTE’s global commercialization. 45 Building a Responsible Supply Chain China Mobile understands that its impact on the industry also means the great responsibility it has. As such, we have implemented rigorous management on our suppliers and conducted comprehensive evaluation on our suppliers’ overall capability to help them improve their quality management, gradually leading and building a responsible supply chain. Enhancing Supply Chain Management Guided by the principles of “Centralization, Standardization and Informationalization”, we strive to develop a low-cost and highly efficient supply chain system that meets the requirements of “lowest total cost, most efficient, good quality and compliance”. Adhering to China Mobile Communications Corporation Regulation on Supervision of Bidding and Procurement Project 2011 Sustainability Report (Provisional), we specify ways for suppliers to whistle-blow in all our centralized bidding and procurement. In order to build a responsible supply chain, in 2011, we required suppliers to provide verified certification documents such as ISO 14000 and SA 18000 in the qualification review of the bidding process. The certification documents will be audited for their authenticity. In Guangdong, we signed the Initiative of Building an Honest and Outstanding Mobile Information Supply Chain together with around 100 of our partners with the aim of building a mobile information supply chain that features “quality first and win-win cooperation”. By signing the initiative, we commit ourselves to working together with our partners to improve our management and realize a win-win situation and our mutual growth. Our cooperation focuses on 3 areas: the development of the next generation information technology, the development of information applications based on the “Wireless City” platform and the implementation of social responsibilities. Strengthening SP Management Adhering to the service concept of “Customers are our priority, quality service is our principle”, we strictly followed the Monitoring and Management Mechanisms of Mobile Internet Malwares, which is the first regulation on Mobile Internet security management issued by the MIIT. We focused on improving our management system and enhancing our support mechanism to strengthen service providers (SP) management and protect the interests of customers. Regarding our management system, we issued an updated Management Measures on Monternet Credits, which intensified the punishment for SP violations, in order to ensure the healthy development of Monternet businesses. We use a credit mechanism to manage our SPs, in which we specified penalties for different kind of violations of customers’ interests. We strictly implement a system keeping track of SPs with bad credit history, and terminate cooperation with SPs with severe violations within 2 years. In Shaanxi, we launched an industry self-regulation initiative of committing to “honest services and harmonious consumption” and circulated it among over 120 local SPs. We urged all SPs to commit to abiding by state’s laws and regulations, actively working with government regulators and firmly maintaining a green environment for information services. In Xinjiang, we strictly abide by environmental regulations regarding base stations in natural reserves 46 Promoting Green Development of the Industry We not only attach great importance to energy conservation and emissions reduction in our own operations, but also actively explore “Green Cooperation” with our industrial chain partners, jointly promoting and practicing “Green Standards” of the telecommunications industry. Innovating on “Green Cooperation” We actively cooperated with different parties to promote various green solutions and business collaborations: In 2011, with “Green Packaging” Promoting “Green Packaging”: We worked together with 8 equipment manufacturers to participate in the pilot program of “Reducing Wood Usage in Mechanical and Electrical Product Packaging” launched by the MIIT in order to Sustainability Practices Highlights 2011 promote “Green Packaging” for telecommunications equipment. We jointly committed to reducing our wood usage by at least 37,000 cubic meters annually in 2011 and 2012. In 2011, we have reached a 69% application rate of 69% green packaging and realized a timber saving of 44,000 cubic meters, exceeding our reduction goal. We also actively application rate was explored ways to cooperate with third-party pallet rental suppliers to shorten the recycle cycle of green packaging. We reached had already conducted pilot work in Guangdong in cooperation with Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd.; “Innovation Day” open house event: We worked together with France Telecom and hosted the first “Innovation Day” 44,000 open house event in China’s telecommunications industry. The event targeted developers of mobile phone applications cubic meters and provided them with the opportunities to see the most advanced trends in innovation and stimulate their creativity of timber was saved with a number of innovative ways, including on-site showcase of new products and new concepts and the opportunity to exchange ideas with other developers; and Engaging in cooperation: As a founding-member of “Green Touch”, we deepened our exchange with internationally renowned academic institutions, such as the AT&T Bell Laboratories, equipment manufacturers and other operators to explore ways to tap energy saving potentials. We also worked with academic institutions such as the Renmin University of China and the National University of Singapore to promote the academic research regarding the coordinated From 2009 to 2011, we development of energy saving and low carbon economy. made full use of the energy conservation grading standards, Leading “Green Standards” We have been focusing on developing communications equipment energy conservation grading standards since 2008. Currently, we have already completed standards that cover 7 areas, including wireless network, core network, service over 600 platform, IP carrier network, optical transport network, IT support network and UPS equipment. products were covered From 2009 to 2011, the energy conservation grading standards started being fully applied to our centralized procurement of communications equipment that covered over 600 products, so as to encourage equipment manufacturers to further increase equipment efficiency with greater input in research and development. We have Leading Industry Growth achieved the goal of reducing average energy consumption and installation area by over 20% every 2 years. In 2011, together with 7 other companies, we founded the first “Alliance of Green, Security and Integrity” for mobile applications. We also initiated 8 standards on being green, security and integrity for mobile software, including standard on healthiness and compliance, standard on low-carbon environment protection, standard on copyright protection, standard on security, standard on quality, standard on pricing, standard on the integrity of trade and standard on customer services. 47 Pushing Forward to “Go Global” We actively implement the “Go Global” strategy and establish professional international companies to strengthen the operational management of our overseas operations. Meanwhile, we actively participate in local community construction, adhere to social responsibility and make great efforts to realize sustainable development. Expanding Overseas Business In December 2010, we incorporated China Mobile International Company Limited in Hong Kong. International Company was in charge of managing our overseas operations, including the 2011 Sustainability Report organization and marketing of our business overseas, procurement and management of international transmission resources, allocation and management of overseas business units, carrying and transmitting of international traffic and cooperating and managing international roaming services. After International Company was founded, we took a number of measures to lower international transmission cost, such as significantly cutting roaming charges in 38 countries and regions including Singapore, Germany and Canada. We also introduced daily data packages for the seven most popular overseas destinations including Hong Kong, Macao, Taiwan, South Korea, Singapore, Malaysia and Thailand. With all these efforts, we aim to provide services that “make you feel at home anywhere in the world”. Fulfilling Local Responsibilities During the process of “Go Global”, we attach great importance to fulfilling our responsibilities. While expanding our business, we have actively integrated into local community and made great efforts to fulfill our responsibilities. In Hong Kong, China Mobile Hong Kong Company Limited (“Hong Kong Company”) is committed to providing considerate products and participating in social public activities and has been named “Caring Company” by the Hong Kong Council of Social Service for 9 consecutive years. Optimized customer services: In order to increase transparency, we adjusted the format of bills We strengthened the protection of customers’ account information safety management. We offered fee discount to elderly customers and also provided free SMS service within network for hearing and speaking impaired persons, students and foreign household helpers. We set up a hotline that provides service in Bahasa Indonesia at service halls. We also offered discounted International Direct Dial (IDD) services to minority ethic customers and facilitated their communication with home countries. Green operation: We have been actively promoting green operation. We strictly managed electromagnetic radiation and conducted over 1,380 base inspections and upgraded about 200 high electricity-consuming facilities in 2011. We commissioned a qualified recycling company to dispose the electronic wastes. Employee localization: We actively promoted localization of its employees with 99.8% of our employees being local people. We valued communication among our employees and encouraged them to maintain a healthy life-work balance, for which we had organized events to facilitate communications, such as “Happy Time” gatherings, cake making and bowling games. Commitment to charity: We actively participated in charitable activities, including the “Blood Donation Day” together with Hong Kong Red Cross Society, the “Food Bank” donation event together with the “St. James’ Settlement” and providing gifts to children at “Hong Kong Society for the Protection of Children”. In Pakistan, CMPak actively devotes itself to serving local economic development and improving the living standards of local people. Our contribution was recognized with the President’s Award given by the Pakistani government. Ensuring compliance: We developed the Internal Audit Policy to strengthen internal control, improved corporate governance system and continued to improve operational transparency. Enhancing network construction: By the end of 2011, our network coverage reached 53% with the highest increase of customer counts among local operators. Developing customized services: We developed a variety of customized services to serve local cultural and religious environment, such as mobile news, regional package and special packages for pilgrimage and Ramadan. We also developed remote charging of airtime to bring convenience to customers in less developed areas. In Hong Kong, China Mobile International Company Limited was founded 48 SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE By reference to the Global Reporting Initiative’s (GRI) Sustainability Reporting Guidelines (G3.1), we set out our key sustainability performance as follows: Economy Environment Economic Values Created and Shared Energy and Resources Sustainability PERFORMANCE We create and share economic values with stakeholders through daily Energy Consumption business operations. We pay a great deal of attention to climate change, make great efforts to reduce our energy consumption and continually improve Indicators 2009 2010 2011 energy efficiency. In 2011, energy consumption per unit of Operating revenue (billion yuan) 480.79 510.45* 557.80 telecommunications traffic decreased by 11% when compared to last year. Corporate income tax paid (billion yuan) 38.76 39.07* 41.63 *Note: The data for 2009-2011 are from audited financial report, and historical data of 2010 Indicators 2009 2010 2011 has been revised. Total electricity consumption (GWhs) 11,140 12,440 13,470 Natural gas consumption 8.8 6.0 6.9 Market Performance (million cubic meters) LPG consumption (100 tonnes) 10.5 7.5 6.7 We abide by labor laws and regulations, and the salary level of our Coal gas consumption (million cubic meters) 0.8 1.0 2.1 employees is higher than the local minimum wage. Coal consumption (10,000 tonnes) 5.3 5.3 2.9 Gasoline consumption (million liters) 155.6 149.1 156.5 Indirect Economic Impact Diesel fuel consumption (million liters) 23.5 26.1 29.0 Narrowing Digital Divide We actively participated in the Village Connected Project to provide Network Infrastructure Joint Construction and Sharing Rates (2011) communication and information services for rural areas and helped to narrow digital divide. Indicators Joint Construction Rate (%) Sharing Rate (%) Indicators 2009 2010 2011 Towers 63 79 Cumulative number of natural villages Pole lines 38 91 34,122 43,577* 53,842* covered via Village Connected Project Base stations 51 80 Cumulative number of administrative – – 4,031 villages with broadband connection Transmission lines 40 92 Number of sales channels in rural areas 56.23 58.00 69.00 (10,000) Using Alternative Energy Number of Rural Information Service users 4,521 5,687 3,130** (10,000) Indicators 2009 2010 2011 *Note: Data of 2010 and 2011 are updated according to statistics of the MIIT. Alternative Energy Base Stations-Total 6,372 7,795 8,970 **Note: The number of Rural Information Service users in 2011 was adjusted to refer to users subscribing to the country-level Rural Information Service. Solar Energy 5,581 6,279 7,057 Wind Energy 72 308 435 Informationalization of National Economy Solar and Wind 689 1,069 1,316 We continuously innovate on personal and industry information applications, and Fuel Cells 30 139 162 help improve the level of informationalization of the entire society through ICT solutions. Reducing Resources Usage Indicators 2009 2010 2011 As of the end of 2011, we have cumulatively issued a total of 1.09 billion Number of Campus Information Service users (million) 32.16 44.41 52.32 mini-sized SIM cards, preventing 6,000 tonnes white pollution, saving 18,000 tonnes production materials and reducing 65 tonnes carbon Promoting Inclusive Society emissions, which is equivalent to reducing resources consumption and On the one hand, we strive for promoting telecommunications services environment pollution caused by 1.3 billion plastic bags. popularization and providing impartial and affordable information services for the whole society; on the other hand, we cooperate with Indicators 2009 2010 2011 relevant departments, develop applications for facilitating society Number of mini-sized SIM cards used 3,319 52,000 53,600 management, help reduce cost of social services through ICT solutions (10,000 pieces) and improve society operation efficiency. Number of SIM cards reused 44 67 72 (10,000 pieces) 49 Green Operations Products and Services Indicators 2009 2010 2011 We proactively innovate on applications of environmental protection. Percentage of businesses conducted 48 54* 76 By the end of 2011, our Vehicle Information Service has provided through e-channels (%) vehicles/personnel monitoring and dispatching services to 205,000 end *Note: Due to changes in indicators, adjustments have been made to historical data. users from 9,000 corporate customers. Green Office We continuously improve the level of informationalization of our office. Through the use of Integrated Information Network, we reduce Transportation physical office resources and business travel expenses. We encourage using video conferences to reduce business trips. In Indicators 2011 2011, video conferences conducted through Integrated Information 2011 Sustainability Report Network amounted to 205,000 times. Number of person-times visiting the Integrated 2.2 Information Network (10,000 person-times) Average number of calls made daily (10,000 calls) 5.2 Labor Practice and  Average duration of calls per day (10,000 minutes) 43.4 Decent Work Average number of instant messages sent per day 7.2 (10,000 messages) Promoting Employment and Entrepreneurship Water Our development contributed to the generation of over 2.5 million We actively use reclaimed water in our operations based on job opportunities. In August 2010, we launched Mobile Market the circumstances, improve our employees’ awareness of water Million Youth Entrepreneurship Project. By the end of 2011, the conservation and save water. project involved 1.51 million young developers, held more than 700 training events for developer and established over 70 campus-based development bases. Indicators 2011 Total amount of reclaimed water used (tonnes) 1,834 Indicators 2009 2010 2011 Total number of employees (persons) 230,902 210,068 218,253 Waste Indicators 2009 2010 2011 Protecting Employee Rights Discarded lead acid batteries (million Ahs) 132.66 125.85 97.80 We strictly comply with labor laws and regulations, sign labor contract Lead acid batteries recycled through 98.74 104.44 95.88 with each employee and pay social insurance for employees in full in professional channels (million Ahs) accordance with laws. Lead acid batteries reused (million Ahs) 41.54 26.65 30.58 Cumulative number of mobile phones and 5.31 6.74 8.51 accessories recycled (million) Education and Training Indicators 2009 2010 2011 Biodiversity Number of persons trained 92.1 89.8 97.5 We actively protect ecological environment and strictly comply with (10,000 person-times) the relevant rules when constructing base stations in ecological reserve Number of senior management trained 330 239 421 (person-times) zones to protect the biodiversity. Number of mid-level management trained 8,421 8,195 8,901 (person-times) Indicators 2011 Number of ordinary employees trained 91.2 88.9 96.6 Number of base stations in ecological reserve zones 7,781 (10,000 person-times) Percentage of employees attending 5.38 5.16 5.32 diploma courses (%) Reducing Carbon Emissions Average training time per employee (hours) 56.7 59.0 57.4 Indicators 2009 2010 2011 CO2e (million tonnes) 9.46* 11.12* 11.97* *Note: According to the data for the conversion of energy published by the Chinese government, the conversion factor for carbon dioxide is as follows: electricity, 0.849; gasoline, 2.3; diesel fuel, 2.63; natural gas, 0.559; LPG, 1.49; coal, 2.66; and coal gas, 9.5. 50 Diversity and Equal Opportunities Products Employee Gender Composition Providing Diversified Services Indicators 2009 2010 2011 Indicators 2009 2010 2011 Percentage of female employees (%) 42.24 40.36 40.53 Number of customers (million) 546.46 609.78 680.71 Percentage of female employees at the 13.88 14.53 17.43 Number of countries and regions senior management level* (%) 237 237 237 covered by GSM roaming service *Note: Senior management refers to anyone at vice president level or above at provincial Number of countries and regions 182 186 187 subsidiaries and anyone at general manager level or above at headquarters. covered by GPRS roaming service Sustainability PERFORMANCE Ethnic Proportion Indicators 2009 2010 2011 Improving Network Quality Ethnic minorities as a percentage 6.10 6.01 6.56 of total employees (%) Network Quality and Reliability (2011) Indicators GSM Network 3G Network Human Rights Successful connection rate (%) 99.26 98.99 We support and respect internationally recognized human rights. Call drop rate (%) 0.32 0.35 Society Customer Satisfaction We strive to improve the customers’ services and protect the Community customers’ interests. The complaint rate per million customers of 2011 We urge and initiate employees to participate in volunteer services. remains the lowest in the communications industry. The number of employee-volunteer has accumulated to over 90,000, and the hours of volunteer services exceeded 10 million cumulatively. Indicators 2009 2010 2011 Complaint rate per million customers (cases) 47.0* 52.1* 40.2* Emergency Support *Note: The indicator has changed, and historical data have been revised. Indicators 2009 2010 2011 Total number of emergency support (times) 5,004 5,413 4,671 Consumers’ Interests Protection Major political or economic events 4,496 4,744 4,028 support (times) Indicators 2009 2010 2011 Significant natural disasters 253 437 223 Number of reported spam support (times) 1,500 684 562 Large-scale accidents or messages handled (10,000 times) 62 75 224 catastrophic events support (times) Public health incidents 120 91 48 support (times) Public safety incidents 73 66 148 support (times) Emergency support vehicles 13,812 21,324 9,636 deployed (times) Emergency support systems 59,073 124,268 43,527 installed (times) Persons involved in emergency support 204,754 354,822 320,866 (person-times) Social Welfare Indicators 2009 2010 2011 Cumulative number of children orphaned by AIDS 9,791 12,229 15,749 or living in extreme poverty sponsored (persons) Number of children in poverty who suffered from – – 202 congenital heart disease assisted (persons) Cumulative number of China Mobile Libraries built 1,175 1,360 1,510 Cumulative number of multimedia classrooms built 175 350 500 Cumulative number of principals of rural primary 14,600 25,600 36,600 and middle schools trained (persons) 51 LOOKING FORWARD Sustainability Management To enhance the construction of indicator management and capability enhancement system. Construction of management To improve management process of sustainability issues, continue to carry out international system benchmarking with global peers and improve management. Stakeholder communication and To increase regular discussions with our stakeholders and focus on key issues. engagement To explore multi-party cooperation with regard to the key topics of ICT service in the society. 2011 Sustainability Report Sustainability Practices To enhance the construction of risk management and internal control system. Adherence to Integrity To increase promotion and education on compliance, strictly against corruption and and Compliance commercial bribery. Innovative and HighlyTo further promote the development of new technologies, new models and new areas, efficient Operation improve operation mode and enhance operational efficiency. To continuously improve daily management of emergency communications, amend color coding plan and special plan and comprehensively improve the emergency plan system. Constructing Excellent To launch nationwide EMF inspection, promote the establishment of EMF international Network standards for China Mobile TD base stations and speed up the setting up of EMF test standards and inspections for TD-LTE base stations. To continuously promote transparency in consumption, protect customers’ interests, innovate on management of customer complaints and improve the capability of handling complaints. Striving for Customer To ensure the security of customer information, fully promote the implementation of “Treasure Confidence Model” in the whole network and further increase customers’ confidence. To intensify the control of obscene and spam messages and formulate a healthy and green network environment. To increase the telephone connection rate of natural villages, increase mobile telecommunications network services and coverage quality in the rural areas and support the development of modernization of farmers, villages and agriculture with more agricultureNarrowing the Digital related information products and services. Divide To further provide mobile business and caring services to the disabled, the elderly and the minority groups and allow our special information applications to benefit a wider group of people. To explore the technology application of the “Internet of Things”, promote the construction Enabling a Better of “Wireless City”, provide more extensive informationalization solutions for key industries Life with Innovative and contribute more to improve social operation efficiency, ensure community security and Information Solutions promote convenience of the public’s living. To continue “Green Action Plan” and improve environment management system. To effectively manage environmental impacts, build green network, enhance electronic Managing business coverage rate and advocate green office. Environmental Impacts To increase resource usage efficiency, continue SIM cards energy saving and emission reduction and recycle electronic wastes. Promoting To promote energy saving and emission reduction through informationalization, develop Environmental smart transportation and logistics through innovation, monitor and detect environment Applications pollution through informationalization. Fostering a To strongly support development aid and poverty alleviation, further strengthen the role of Harmonious China Mobile Charity Foundation, carry out more practical volunteer activities in the areas of Community supporting education development and caring for disadvantaged groups. To care for the employees, protect employees’ interests, complete employee growth mechanism, provide diversified training for employees and continue to enhance their Employee Caring and personal capabilities. Development To care for employees’ practical needs, help employees realize work-life balance through detailed and thoughtful measures. To continuously promote TD development, accelerate maturing of TD-LTE industry and explore new space for industry development. Leading Industry Growth To promote industrial multi-cooperation, promote green industry standards and lead the communications industry to a healthy growth. Pushing Forward to To improve international business development, commit to local operations and become a “Go Global” exemplary demonstration in “Go Global”. 52 INDEXES GRI Index (G3.1) No. Relevance Page No. Relevance Page No. Relevance Page Strategy and Analysis LA6 High – EN22 High 36, 50 1.1 High 1 LA7 High – EN23 Low – 1.2 High 7 LA8 High 44 EN24 Low – Organizational Profile LA9 High – EN25 Low – 2.1 High 4-5, 55 LA10 High 43, 50 EN26 High 33-38 INDEXES 2.2 High 5 LA11 High 43, 50 EN27 Low 36, 47, 50 2.3 High – LA12 High 43, 50 EN28 High – 2.4 High 55, Back cover LA13 High 50-51 EN29 Low 50 2.5 High 5 LA14 High 43 EN30 High 33-36 2.6 High 5, 55 LA15 High – 2.7 High 5 HR1 Not Applicable – 2.8 2.9 High High 5, 49-51 55 HR2 HR3 Not Applicable Not Applicable – – GRI Telecom Index 2.10 High 5, 9, 39 HR4 High 43, 48 Report Parameters HR5 Not Applicable – No. Relevance Page 3.1 High 55 HR6 High 48 Internal Operations 3.2 High 55 HR7 High 43 IO1 High 22 3.3 High 55 HR8 Not Applicable – IO2 High 22-24 3.4 High 56, Back cover HR9 High 48 IO3 High – 3.5 High 55 HR10 High – IO4 High 16 3.6 High 55 HR 11 High – IO5 High 16 3.7 High 55 SO1 High 10, 16, 39-42 IO6 Not Applicable – 3.8 High 55 SO2 High 14 IO7 High 16, 34 3.9 High 55 SO3 High 14 IO8 High 33, 49 3.10 High 49-51 SO4 High 14 Providing Access 3.11 Medium 55 SO5 High 22-24 PA1 High 22-24 3.12 High 53-55 SO6 Not Applicable – PA2 High 22-24 3.13 Medium – SO7 High – PA3 High 16, 51 Corporate Governance SO8 High – PA4 High 5, 22, 51 4.1 High 13 SO9 High 16, 22-24, 49, 51 PA5 High 22-24, 49 4.2 High 13 SO10 High 16, 22-24, 49, 51 PA6 High 17, 51 4.3 High 13 PR1 High 16 PA7 High 10, 18-24 4.4 High 11 PR2 Low 16 PA8 High 16 4.5 High – PR3 Medium 19 PA9 High 16 4.6 High 13 PR4 High – PA10 High 19 4.7 High – PR5 High 18-21, 51 PA11 High 18-19, 37-38 4.8 High 1, 6-7 PR6 High 18-21 Technology Applications 4.9 High 13 PR7 High – TA1 High 37-38 4.10 High – PR8 High 20 TA2 High 34-38 4.11 High 13-14 PR9 High – TA3 High 25-26,35-36 4.12 High Back cover Environmental Responsibility Indicators TA4 High 25-26,35-36 4.13 High 5, 45, 55 EN1 Low 33-36, 49 TA5 High 12 4.14 High 10-11 EN2 Medium 33-36, 49-50 4.15 High 7, 10-11 EN3 High 49 4.16 High 10-11 EN4 High 49 4.17 High 10-11 EN5 High 33-37, 47, 49 Economic Responsibility Indicators EN6 Low 37-38, 50 EC1 High 5, 49 EN7 Low 33-36, 49 EC2 High 33-38 EN8 Medium – EC3 High 43-44 EN9 Low – EC4 Not Applicable – EN10 Low 50 EC5 High 43 EN11 Low – EC6 High 7, 11, 45-48 EN12 High 46, 50 EC7 Medium 43, 48 EN13 Low – EC8 High 22-32, 39 EN14 Low – EC9 High 15, 22-24, 49 EN15 Low – Social Responsibility Indicators EN16 High 50 LA1 High 5, 50 EN17 High 50 LA2 High – EN18 High 33-38 LA3 High 43-44 EN19 Low – LA4 Medium – EN20 Low – LA5 High – EN21 Low – 53 The UN Global Compact’s 10 Principles Index Human Rights Environment Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to internationally proclaimed human rights (see pages 22environmental challenges (see pages 33-38, 47-50); 24, 43-44, 51); and Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights responsibility (see pages 33-38, 47-50); and abuses (see pages 22-24, 43-44, 46). Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies (see pages 33-38, 47-50). Labor Standards Anti-corruption 2011 Sustainability Report Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, and the effective recognition of the right to collective including extortion and bribery (see pages 13-14, 46). bargaining (see pages 43-44); Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor (see pages 43-44); Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labor (see pages 51 ); and Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation (see pages 43-44, 48, 51). ISO 26000 Index Corporate Responsibility Core Issues Indicators Page Organization governance 13-14, 46 Human rights 1. Due diligence 46 2. Human rights risk situations – 3. Avoidance of complicity 20, 46 4. Resolving grievances 18, 43, 46 5. Discrimination and vulnerable groups 22-24, 39-42 6. Civil and political rights 43, 48 7. Economic, social and cultural rights 22-24, 43, 48 8. Fundamental principles and rights at work 43-44 Labor practices 1. Employment and employment relationships 43, 48 2. Conditions of work and social protection 44 3. Social dialogue 43 4. Health and safety at work 44 5. Human development and training in the workplace 43 Environment 1. Prevention of pollution 33-34, 38 2. Sustainable resource use 36 3. Climate change mitigation and adaptation 33-38 4. Protection of the environment, biodiversity and restoration of natural homes 33-38 Fair operating practices 1. Anti-corruption 14, 46 2. Responsible political involvement – 3. Fair competition 13, 48 4. Promoting social responsibility in the value chain 36, 46-47 5. Respect for property rights 46-47 Consumer issues 1. Fair marketing, factual and unbiased information and fair contractual practices 19 2. Protecting consumers’ health and safety 16-17 3. Sustainable consumption 18-21, 25-31 4. Consumer service, support and compliant and dispute resolution 18 5. Consumer data protection and privacy 20 6. Access to essential services 18-19, 22-24 7. Education and awareness 21, 31 Community involvement and development 1. Community involvement 10-11, 39-42 2. Education and culture 28, 31, 40 3. Employment creation and skills development 40-41, 45 4. Technology development and access 15 5. Wealth and income creation 4-5, 15, 49 6. Health 26, 41 7. Social investment 39-41 54 ABOUT THIS REPORT This is China Mobile Communications Corporation’s sixth Corporate Social Responsibility Report, and it covers our activities between 1 January 2011 and 31 December 2011. This report has been published in both English and Chinese versions. We have compiled this report according to the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact and ISO 26000 Index of the International Standard Organization, and by reference to the Global Reporting Initiative’s Sustainability Reporting Guidelines (G3.1) and the GRI Telecommunications Sector Supplement. We have also sought to align this report with the unique attributes of our business and industry. This report also made reference to the Guidelines for China Enterprises Corporate Social Responsibility Reporting (CASS-CSR 2.0). Content Selection Data Collection ABOUT THIS REPORT We followed the GRI principles of “materiality, stakeholder Our data and case studies in the 2011 report are collected primarily inclusiveness, sustainability context and completeness” and took the through the following: following steps to define the contents of this report: China Mobile’s internal statistics reports; Analysis of our corporate sustainable development strategy; China Mobile e-platform for CSR management: we established a International benchmarking and internal assessment for sustainable CSR management indicators system in 2008, and officially launched development; the e-platform for CSR management in March 2009 for collecting The identification of sustainable development issues for the relevant data and case studies on a quarterly basis; and telecommunications industry in terms of their relevance and In 2011 we held an annual CSR practice competition: starting from significance; 2008, we have been inviting external experts to act as judges with Interviews with our key stakeholders; and our internal experts to comment on CSR practices each year. Analysis of the continuity and comparability of this report against reports of peer companies and our previous reports. Currency In particular, the 2011 report covers the following within the GRI framework: Unless otherwise specified, all monetary figures shown in this report Our sustainability strategy and management in 2011 (pages 6-11); are expressed in Renminbi (yuan). Our sustainability practices highlights in 2011 (pages 12-48); and Our sustainability performance in 2011 (pages 49-51). Unaudited Data Report Scope Unless otherwise specified, the data shown in this report is unaudited. Unless otherwise stated, this Report covers operations of China Mobile Communications Corporation and our operating subsidiaries from across all 31 provinces, autonomous regions, and directly-administered municipalities in Mainland China, Hong Kong Special Administrative Region (SAR) and Pakistan, and other affiliated enterprises including China Tietong Telecommunications Corporation, China Mobile Group Terminal Company Limited and China Mobile International Company Limited. China Mobile Basic Company Information Company Name China Mobile Communications Corporation Company Founded On April 20, 2000 Assets In excess of RMB 1,000 billion Headquarters Address 29 Jinrong Avenue, Xicheng District, Beijing, 100033, China Ownership Structure State-Owned Enterprise Method of Going Public China Mobile Communications Corporation holds 100% of the equity of China Mobile (HK) Group Limited. China Mobile Limited, of which China Mobile (HK) Group Limited is the major shareholder, has set up wholly-owned subsidiaries in 31 provinces, autonomous regions and directly administered municipalities in Mainland China and the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region, and is listed on the Hong Kong and New York stock exchanges. 55 FEEDBACK Dear Reader: Thank you for taking the time to read our 2011 Sustainability Report. There are inevitably some flaws and omissions in this report, and we very much welcome your comments and suggestions. Thank you, China Mobile 2011 Sustainability Report Team 2011 Sustainability Report April 2012 Name Contact Information Telephone Email Company Report Feedback* Readability Objectivity Logic and Structure Completeness Beginning Adherence to Integrity and Compliance Innovative and Highly-efficient Operation Constructing Excellent Network Striving for Customer Confidence Narrowing the Digital Divide Enabling a Better Life with Innovative Information Solutions Managing Environmental Impacts Promoting Environmental Applications Fostering a Harmonious Community Employee Caring and Development Leading Industry Growth Pushing Forward to “Go Global” Ending Overall evaluation * Please rate each item from 1 to 5, with 1 being the lowest score and 5 being the highest. You are welcome to send this form to China Mobile 2011 Sustainability Report Team via email at CR@chinamobile.com, or via fax at +86-10-66006167. We value your feedback and suggestions and will ensure that your information will not be accessed by any third party. 56
