Salsabil Company For F Canning C i &B Bottling ttli Presented By: Eng. Mohammad Akkad AlSabbora, AlS bb R Reeff D Damascus P.O.Box 11 Syria Tel +963113921725 Fax +963113921732 Website: www.salsabil.com E-mail: info@salsabil.com General General Overview Overview Salsabil Soft Drink Bottling & Canning kicked off operations in 1991. Situated in Damascus Countryside, S bb h were water Sabborah t reserve is l t with i plenty ith 4 running i wells. ll Sabbora is long known for quality of water derived from Jabal Shiek Mountain. Salsabil commenced operation bottling and filling brand names such as Crush, Canada Dry, Sport Cola under licence from Schweppes International Limited. The company started with two production lines, CAN, PET and then ventured into a third p production line for bottlingg RGB In 2007, the world largest beverage company Coca Cola acquired the beverage section of Schweppes International Limited; hence hence, Salsabil Co. Co became a part of the Coca Cola International system. Salsabil was awarded ISO certificate in 2001 and later was awarded many quality and environmental certificates such as Q1, Q3, E1, E3, HACCAP, GMB. General General Overview Overview Salsabil Capital expenditure expansions included Coolers & RG injection, new trucks, investing in new molds in addition to major overhauling for PET line which increased production capacity. Salsabil throughout its years was continuously searching for innovative products and packages by following international trends and meeting local needs. Strivingg to satisfyy market demands, Canada Dry Mineral Water 2005& Fire Energy Drink 2006 and Capo Still Drink 2006 were introduced and distributed throughout Syria using Salsabil strong distribution chain. In 2009, Salsabil was able to sign a co packing agreementt with ith CCI CCI, Coca C C l Franchisee Cola F hi in i Syria, S i to toll filling Coke, Sprite and Fanta products in the factory as per Coke standards. Co packing agreement proved Salsabil unique capabilities, high production standards and managerial skills which landed the co packing contract. Mission Serving refreshment to local Syrian customers through high quality li soft drinks from well known and trusted brand names. Vision Enhancingg Nutritional values, following market trends and capturing market share. Production ¾Type of Production lines: CAN, PET & RGB ¾Production Packages on each line: CAN (330ML) SS PET (350ML) MS PET (2.25L, 1.25L) RGB (250ML) Production ¾Capacity of Bottles/CAN per hour: CAN :30,000 CPH PET 2.25L :7,200 BPH PET 1.75L 1 75L :9:9,000 000 BPH PET 1.25L :12,000 BPH PET 350ML :16,000 BPH RGB 250ML :60,000 BPH ¾Line utilization efficiency: ALL LINES 80% ¾Upgrades pg on the lines for the ppast 3 yyrs: SALSABIL ADDED TWO NEW SETS OF MOULDS FOR 350ML & 1.75L Distribution Salsabil Co distributes their products in all Syrian Provinces using network of company branches and distributers. distributers Our strength lies in Direct distributers, Pre Sellers, Wholesales and Company Branches who all work closely with the factory management to implement localized plans developed in partnership with Coca Cola Company. Company Distribution A fleet of 100 trucks carries various company products on a daily basis to place them within the consumer reach. reach Over 11.500 coolers are distributed and placed in outlets to ensure our products are served cold to the consumer. Around 200 000 200,000 Cases of Returnable Glass Bottles are distributed to wholesalers who by turn deliver to outlets. Environment & Social Responsibility Salsabil responsibility towards the Syrian Society and workforce is divided d d d into six parts: 1. Products: Offering beverages for every life style and occasion while providing quality that consumer can trust trust. Salsabil strives to offer consumers a wide variety of products to choose from by continuously expanding product portfolio. portfolio Ensuring the safety and quality of our products has always been our company priority. Measures taken periodically in Salsabil to insure safety & quality standards inline with worldwide known practices such Q1, Q3, E1, E3, HACCAP,, GMB. In addition,, our raw materials are boughtg from either Coca Cola International or approved Coke suppliers. Environment & Social Responsibility 2. Community: Coke International strategy is to give back at least 1% of annual operating Income to help develop and sustain communities around the world. Environment & Social Responsibility 3. Efficiency: Salsabil aim is to adapt measures that reduce absolute emissions from our manufacturing operations. Couple of important steps in this direction were adopted recently such as purchasing new Cooler Picture coolers equipped with energy management devices that reduce the energy consumption of cooler by 35%. Environment & Social Responsibility 4. Packaging: Constant development to improve packaging material efficiency per liter of product sold. Salsabil also adopted couple of new designs and alteration on PET and CAN. A new light weighted PET bottle is used which reduces waste. In addition change o addition, over er parts were ere ordered for CAN line to change the CAN ends from a 206 diameter to a 202 diameter; this reduces aluminium weight. Environment & Social Responsibility 5. Water: Since water is life essence and is considered the main ingredient in our beverages, Salsabil continuously takes measures to improve water efficiency by working to reduce used water in our plant. This is done through improving water efficiency in our beverage manufacturing processes such as rinsing, cleaning, g, heatingg and coolingg. Environment & Social Responsibility 6‐ Workplace: We ensure a healthy and safe working environment in our plant and value the relationship with our associates associates. We believe the success of our business stems from our employees, business partners andd suppliers li who h allll add dd value and help us in delivering our products to the market.
