United d Natio ons Glo obal Compact C Commu unicatiion on Progre P ess 2012 2 Human Righ hts AAssessmentt, policy and d goals Mazars fully comp plies with thhe Human R Rights deve elopment agenda set fforth by the e Global Compacct. Our responsibility as a a service e company goes beyon nd. Mazars has thus d eveloped a specific Human Rights aud dit methodo ology, rewa arded with an a IAB awa ard in 20111. This offeer allows compan nies to makke sure the eir entities or subcon ntractors are in complliance with Human Rights aand are devveloped in several s counntries. . IImplementa ation This ob bjective forms part of our glo obal Partnership Soc cial Respoonsibility, which w is communicated to alla our staff in a detaile ed section of o our Annual Report. M Mazars in th he UK is a pilot country applying the Human Rig ghts audit to their offices, an exxample to replicate throughout the Gro oup. MMeasuremeent of outco omes Mazars is presen nt in 69 co ountries an nd applies Group po olicy to preevent any form of discrimination. All countries have been ssurveyed to o create parrity and a d iversity policies, for which the Group gives g counttries guidel ines and policy p requirrements annd leaves countries c adapt th he policy to their local context. c The policies are under u deplooyment, and d so are Human H Righ hts audit inn several co ountries. Mazars will collectt and use the t results to define key k GRI indicators annd apply them to a selectedd number of o countries s in the ne ext coming years, with the aim of having a global consoliddated reporrt within a fe ew years. Mazars – United Nations Glob bal Compacct Commu unication onn Progress 2012 2 Labour AAssessmentt, policy and d goals Mazars strictly follows all lab bour regulattion in everry country. The Groupp also follow ws good governaance codess were ap pplicable (S South Africca, United Kingdom, Sweden). All our operatio ons are subbject to public scrutiny iin our Group Transpare ency Reporrt. IImplementaation Securityy and work conditions are treated locally, in accordance a with the sttaff. As for diversity, d the Grooup is implementing a global w work-life ballance policy, and reggularly asse essing it through regional HR seminars s. MMeasuremeent of outcoomes The pollicies have been deplo oyed and w will be assesssed in the e coming yeear. A pilot steering group iss gathering g data abou ut all publisshed indicattors by cou untry units tto consolida ate data and inte egrate themm into a reguular reportinng in the nex xt few years s. Mazars – United Nations Glob bal Compacct Commu unication on n Progress 2012 2 Envir ronmen nt AAssessmentt, policy andd goals Fight ag gainst climaate changee is one of the pillars of the glob bal PSR poolicy. Each country applies it working on the loca ally relevantt levers: grreen IT, local providerss, green ve ehicles… Several countries make m carbo on footprint a assessmen nt. The ma ain Group evvent, the An nnual Partn ner’s Conferrence is ass sessed to d etermine its s carbon footprint each yea ar. This assessment serves as s a basis to fund a carbon offsetting o programmme (in Indo onesia in 20 010, in Chin na in 2011 & 2012). IImplementa ation The Gro oup provide es guideline es to every ccountry which applies environmennt policies using u the most re elevant me eans locallyy. We also o collect an a good prractices, through a nd share all dedicate ed commun nity club on our Group intranet. MMeasuremeent of outco omes The pollicies have been deplo oyed and w will be asses ssed in the e coming yeear. A pilot steering group iss gathering g data abou ut all publisshed indicattors by couuntry units tto consolida ate data and inte egrate them m into a reguular reportinng in the nexxt few years s. Mazars – United Nations Glob bal Compacct Commu unication on n Progress 2012 2 Anti-Corrupttion AAssessmentt, policy and d goals The values of integ grity and teechnical exccellence as well as the e Group’s ccore profess sion and role as a global plaayer in financial transp parency exc clude all forrms of corruuption. The Group’s risk maanagement and quality y control po olicy are deesigned to avoid it, booth with ma andatory rotation of the parrtners certiffying accou unts and wiith regular quality asssessment by peers. These p policies are also regulaarly assesse ed by independent auth horities. IImplementa ation The Gro oup is designing a more m specifi c anti-bribe ery policy, tot be deplooyed in 2013. This will be superrvised by the risk mana policy w agers world dwide. Mazars also capita alise on this experience e and on its legal obliga ations to creeate a spec cific anticorruption offer to help h clients build their own reportiing and con ntrol systemms. Measurement of outco omes The policies have been deployed and will be assessed d in the cooming year. A pilot steering g group is gathering g ata about al l published indicators by country units to con da nsolidate data and integrate them into a regular rep he next few years. porting in th Mazars – United Nations Glob bal Compacct Commu unication onn Progress 2012 2
