2012 UN Global Compact communication on progress. 1 Table of Contents Letter of Support. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5 Vision . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 7 Human Rights. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 9 Labor. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11 Environment . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 13 Anti-Corruption . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 15 Who We Are . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 16-17 Team Principles. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 19 What We Do . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 21-27 Partners. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 29 Key Strategies. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 31 Miyamoto Relief. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 33 Media . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 34 3 Letter of Support “Make the world a better place.” That is the mission statement of Miyamoto International. Upon review of the UN Global Compact’s Ten Principles, I believe that if each of these principles is embraced and supported by our organization, together, we can make the world a better place. Human rights, labor, the environment, and anti-corruption are all global issues that need to be addressed—not only on paper, but through action. As an earthquake and structural engineer who has traveled to dozens of natural-disaster-stricken countries around the globe, I have seen firsthand the vital importance of upholding these principles—and the dangers of ignoring them. I have witnessed the destruction of human life due to structural failures that could easily have been prevented. With these Ten Principles in mind, Miyamoto International undertakes initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility and encourages the development of environmentally friendly technologies. The quality of human life around the globe can be improved by engineering safe communities and using the best technologies available to improve our built environments. Miyamoto International fully supports the Ten Principles of the Global Compact and would like to join in your efforts to not only increase awareness of these vital global challenges, but implement change through the projects that we pursue and the partnerships that we build. Miyamoto will gladly share the Ten Principles with our sphere of influence, including partners, clients, and professional colleagues. We are committed to making the Global Compact and its principles part of our strategy, culture, and daily operations, as well as engaging in collaborative partnerships and projects that will advance the broader goals of the United Nations, particularly the Millennium Development Goals in eradicating poverty. We are willing to make a declaration statement to our stakeholders and the general public of our commitment to join forces with the UN to advance and implement these principles and goals. In closing, we are pleased to fully support the Ten Principles, and look forward to partnering with you to make the world a better place. Sincerely, H. Kit Miyamoto, Ph.D.,S.E. President and CEO Miyamoto International Earthquake + Structural Engineers 5 Vision Miyamoto International is a global earthquake and structural engineering firm that provides critical services to help sustain industries and communities around the world. Our mission statement, “Make the world a better place,” means that we strive to engineer sustainable built environments around the globe while making quality business practices an integral part of our daily business operations. In particular, it is our policy to consistently work to uphold high-performance design, timely delivery, and Mission environmental integrity in our business methods at all times. make the world a We boldly pursue the optimal solutions to support businesses, enrich communities, and sustain humanity in every market that we serve. Our better place. goal is to make a positive impact on humanity as a high-performance earthquake engineering firm with offices strategically positioned across the globe. We specialize in designing high-performance earthquake engineering solutions that reduce lifecycle costs and produce a positive net impact on a structure’s operation. Our clients include government agencies, privatesector organizations, developers, architects, and contractors who desire highly effective and sustainable technical solutions. We are a global leader in assisting governments, international organizations, nongovernmental organizations (NGOs), and the private sector with disaster mitigation, response, and reconstruction. We use our earthquake and structural engineering expertise to achieve sustainable development, and we provide not only the technology to improve lifesafety building practices, but also the latest engineering management, construction management, and leadership capacity. 7 we work to provide safety and shelter to people when they need it Human Rights most. Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. Miyamoto International is a global earthquake and structural engineering firm that provides critical services to help sustain industries and communities around the world. Our passion to make the world a better place has taken us to the epicenters of some of history’s largest natural disasters. From these disasters, we have gained valuable knowledge, which we bring to all our projects. Principle 2: Businesses should ensure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Miyamoto International respects and upholds the protection of international human rights as set out in the United Nations’ Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the International Labor Organization’s Fundamental Conventions and the Global Compact. Miyamoto will make this a criterion in the selection and management of its suppliers and contractors. 9 Labor Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. Miyamoto International recognizes and respects employees right to freely and voluntarily establish and join organizations of their own choice, while recognizing the right of the Employer’s freedom of expression that does not unlawfully interfere with that right. Miyamoto supports Employers that adopt non-discriminatory policies that support the employee’s right of association and to lawfully elect to be governed by collective bargaining, as set out in the United Nations’ Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the International Labor Organization’s Fundamental Conventions, and the Global Compact. Miyamoto will strive to make this a criterion in the selection and management of its suppliers and contractors. Principle 4: Businesses should uphold the elimination of forced or compulsory Labor. Miyamoto International respects and supports the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory Labor as set out in the United Nations’ Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the International Labor Organization’s Fundamental Conventions, and the Global Compact. Miyamoto will strive to make this a criterion in the selection and management of its suppliers and contractors. Principle 5: Businesses should uphold the effective abolition of child Labor. Miyamoto International respects and supports the effective abolition of child Labor as set out in the United Nations’ Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the International Labor Organization’s Fundamental Conventions and the Global Compact. Miyamoto will strive to make this a criterion in the selection and management of its suppliers and contractors. Principle 6: Businesses should uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Miyamoto International is an equal opportunity employer and does not discriminate against otherwise qualified applicants on the basis of race, color, creed, religion, ancestry, age, sex, marital status, sexual preference, national origin, disability or handicap, or veteran status. 11 ENVIRONMENTAL POLICY Miyamoto International is committed to preserving our environment. Our company mission statement to make the world a better means that we engineer sustainable built environments around the globe, making this practice an integral part of our daily business operations. In particular, it is our policy to uphold health, safety, and environmental integrity to our business methods at all times. We will do so by adhering to the following principles: Compliance and precaution We will comply with all applicable laws and regulations. We will implement programs and procedures to assure compliance. Compliance with health, safety and environmental standards will be a key factor in program implementation, training, and reaching our goals to achieve sustainable built environments around the world. Promoting Greater Environmental responsibility We will seek opportunities beyond regulatory compliance requirements to reduce risk to human health and the environment. We will employ management systems and procedures, such as disaster mitigation, to mitigate danger from structural failures that poses a threat? We will respond to emergency disasters, and seek out opportunities to rebuild sustainable communities in the event of a disaster. We will looks for ways to minimize risk to our own employees and to the communities in which we operate by seeking out and employing the latest sustainable technologies and engineering methods available. Environmentally friendly Technologies We will leverage existing and cutting-edge technologies to provide alternative, innovative, solutions to structural challenges. We will partner with building systems experts on research and design to test and develop new innovations in our industry. We will commit to seeking out seismic technologies and implementing them into our projects, creating safe, more disaster resilient communities, minimizing our global footprint, and maintaining environmental integrity. Green Building We will continue to use our LEED project expertise to design durable and functional buildings using renewable material resources. We will offer sustainable options and specify the resource reuse content for a variety of available structural materials. We will make full use of our extensive experience in evaluating and rehabilitating existing structures, maximizing the reuse of existing building shells. We will further our research and development for green products, LEED certified, and net-zero structures. Communication We will communicate our policy commitments to our sphere of influence. We will measure and review our progress on an annual basis, and continue to seek out opportunities to improve our principles and our environmental performance. 13 Anti-Corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against all forms of corruption, including extortion and bribery. Miyamoto International prides itself on its commitment to make the world a better place. This commitment builds on the values of our company and our employees. We pride ourselves on our integrity and we do not permit the misuse of entrusted authority for private gain or any other forms of corruption in any setting or on any level. Miyamoto International has a zero-tolerance policy and reserves the right to investigate, document and pursue any necessary, legal action for corrupt acts carried out by any of its trustees, officers, staff, associates or stakeholders. Miyamoto International strives to continually improve its financial and administrative systems, policies, and procedures to ensure transparency, accountability and compliance with applicable laws, rules, and regulations. our vision is to use the best practices in the world to provide effective financial management. 15 WHo We ARe People Development As Principal, People Development (Human Resources), Lana Anest For us, an exemplary leader is someone who helps others focuses on Miyamoto International’s achieve their personal best by finding common ground biggest asset, its people. Her mission between group and individual goals. We believe that a group is to attract, develop and retain performs best when its goals bring out the best from each outstanding talent for Miyamoto, member. providing them with the knowledge and work environment to perform at their best. With over 20 years of experience Our staff members’ primary responsibility is to serve our clients. in multiple industries both domestically Our leaders serve the staff and make everyone’s job easier. and internationally, Lana leads Each leader works to position staff members to maximize their Miyamoto’s overall human resource strengths. We give our staff the freedom to do their best work strategy. and enhance our process as a collaborative organization. View Full Bio Visit us online to view our complete list of leadership profiles. Financial Development As the Chief Financial Officer at Miyamoto International, Kate Motonaga has over 20 years of finance and accounting experience in multiple disciplines for a broad range of international companies. Kate contributes her wealth of knowledge to working with large, small, foreign, American, start-up, well-established, and distressed companies. View Full Bio Chief Executive Officer Communications H. Kit Miyamoto, PhD, SE, is the CEO and a structural engineer for Miyamoto International, Global Risk Miyamoto and a nonprofit organization, Jessica Stanton was drawn to the Miyamoto Global Disaster Relief. Under his leadership, more than 12,000 architecture, engineering, and projects have been successfully completed worldwide. Known for innovative construction community early on engineering, Kit Miyamoto has worked on many challenging projects that because of the opportunity that design received industry recognition, including the Structural Engineers Association offers to create places that affect our of California (SEAOC) Excellence in Structural Engineering Award. lives. Inspired by people who take responsibility for improving our quality View Full Bio of life through applied talent, Jessica uses her talents on behalf of the visionary men and women with whom she works at Miyamoto. Because of her entrepreneurial and collaborative spirit, Jessica excels as a communications leadership matters. and business development leader. View Full Bio 17 Team Principles You will work with a team that values that values collaboration, prompt and honest communication, and passion for the Miyamoto mission represented by each staff member. You will work with a team that does not use rigid job descriptions or positions, because each of us is unique and each of us has something special to contribute to your vision, individually and as an integrated team of specialists. You will not need to deal with unnecessary management layers or titles, and any unnecessary bureaucratic paperwork will be eliminated. You can expect our leaders to serve others. All staff members serve our clients. Leaders serve the staff and make everyone’s job easier by removing roadblocks and building an effective team environment. You can expect all staff members to enhance our combined mission. Opinions from all levels of staff at any location are considered. You will work with a team that will continually learn and grow as leaders, team members, and professionals. Each of us is responsible for his or her own professional growth plan. You can expect our corporate team to serve and provide leadership so that staff and offices can be successful. Corporate is not an executive group, it is a leadership group. You can expect to use our open communication structure. 19 What We Do Case Study: Pan American Development Fund (PADF) and the OFFICE OF U.S. FOREIGN DISASTER ASSISTANCE (OFDA)/UNITED STATES AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT (USAID) Repair and Construction in Port-Au-Prince The January 2010 Haiti earthquake damaged hundreds of thousands of houses in Port-Au-Prince and displaced over one million people from their homes. Shortly after the earthquake, Miyamoto International, in partnership with the United Nations Office for Project Services (UNOPS) and PADF developed a scalable program to methodically assess and repair homes in Port-Au-Prince to safely repopulate as many homes as possible and relieve strain within internally displaced person (IDP) camps. More than one million people lived in temporary shelters (tents) after the earthquake. Damage assessment is the initial step toward reconstruction and recovery efforts. In addition to identifying safe and dangerous buildings, damage assessment is used to identify safe and dangerous construction practices, and to assist in developing demolition plans and reconstruction strategies. The primary objectives of the damage assessment program were to: a. Perform rapid identification of building safety using state-of-theart technology and a well-recognized standard geared toward Haitian construction b. Compile a database of the assessed buildings to assist in accurate estimation of debris for removal and in planning reconstruction strategies c. Build the local technical capacity by educating local Haitian engineers to serve as trainers for a larger pool of Haitians who would serve as both damage assessors and reconstruction evaluators In total, approximately 400,000 buildings were assessed for earthquake damage, and dozens of Haitian engineers were trained by Miyamoto in the process. The assessment program yielded many life-saving and useful results, and in particular allowed many people to reoccupy homes that had been inspected and found to be safe. 21 Case Study: Haitian Ministry of Public Works Repair of 6,000 Yellow-Tagged, Earthquake-Damaged Structures, Port-Au-Prince, Delmas 32, Haiti Following the 400,000 damage assessments, Miyamoto International began a repair program for the Haitian Ministry of Public Works, Transport, and Communications (MTPTC) to repair 120,000 yellow-tagged (“restricted”) damaged structures in Port-au-Prince. These buildings had been previously assessed during the damage assessment phase. The assessment revealed that the primary causes of damage to buildings, and the resulting loss of life, were poor design and construction practices, and lack of quality control. To facilitate, train, and ensure uniform, low-cost, and consistent repairs, a repair manual was developed. The majority of these repairs are being made using local and existing resources. A pilot repair program initiated in March 2011 has demonstrated that retrofits can be performed within a nominal cost, transitioning Haitians from temporary to permanent housing in a rapid time frame. The buildings observed by the team during the assessments were constructed using a similar structural system, consisting of a cast-in-place concrete gravity frame with hollow clay block (HCB) infill panels acting as shear walls. This design led to heavy buildings with little lateral strength and essentially no post-yielding capacity, and it was a key factor in the vast majority of failures observed. Under the repair program, a group of community masons and contractors were trained and certified for performing the repairs. Experienced masons were brought in to teach the local masons the proper way of mixing the material and constructing reinforced walls. The repair program emphasized using local resources, including materials, contractors, and personnel. This approach: a. Provides long-term training and establishes good engineering practices for Haiti b. Ensures that residences are retrofitted for a 300% seismic capacity level c. Has resulted in the development of repair guidelines for safer engineering and building practices d. Stimulates the local economy and assists in developing local small businesses e. Empowers citizens with a sense of ownership 23 Case Study: World Bank and European Union Istanbul, Turkey, Seismic Risk Mitigation and Rehabilitation Miyamoto International provided engineering quality control for the World Bank and European Union (EU) funded seismic risk-mitigation project in Istanbul, involving more than 2,000 structures. Several hundred schools, hospitals, and emergency operations centers were seismically strengthened. With Turkish engineers and academicians, Miyamoto developed guidelines for seismic rehabilitation by using the latest US, Japanese, and Turkish codes. By working with the Turkish government, Miyamoto was able to assist with high-performance earthquake engineering, providing designs that achieve superior performance at reduced costs. Case Study: Ministry of Transport, Construction and Tourism Romania, Hazard Risk Mitigation and Emergency Preparedness Miyamoto provided a quality-control program for the earthquake engineering and construction of 61 buildings in 14 different counties of Romania, from Bucharest in the south to Iasi in the north. The project includes monitoring 20 contracts for design and construction of seismic retrofits, as well as monitoring the construction supervision of 84 seismic retrofit projects. Miyamoto also implemented and conducted a construction quality-assurance program for Romania. The buildings involved in this project were key public-sector institutions; including fire stations, schools, hospitals, historic or cultural heritage buildings and emergency response centers. This program is considered to be the cornerstone of the earthquake disaster mitigation program for the region. 25 Case Study: Rebuilding Homes Repair of the Home of Marie Lorna Louis, Gerald Jean Louis, and Their Six Grandchildren Miyamoto is partnering with PADF to work with Haitians as they rebuild homes in Haiti. One example of this is the home of Marie and her husband, Gerald. They built their home over 30 years ago and it has been a constant for all the people in their lives; between their children and grandchildren there is always a full house. Marie takes care of her husband, who suffers from multiple sclerosis and six grandchildren, who live with them on a constant basis. The January 2010 earthquake destroyed the house that so many had called home. The amount of damage was very extensive and resulted in the demolition and construction of all but one wall. After the earthquake, the family used corrugated sheet metal and wood from their collapsed roof to make a temporary shelter. The living area was small and unable to consistently accommodate the family. Living conditions remained this way until the housing program built another temporary shelter for the family on the property. The family continued to live in those conditions for another nine or 10 months—until PADF launched its housing program, working with Miyamoto, and the family’s home was repaired. The family is very happy to have their home back and is grateful that it was possible. Hear about Miyamoto from a Haitian. assisting Haitians as they rebuild their homes. 27 Partners Our professional staff and consultants have responded to more than 100 earthquake and hurricane events over the past 30 years. We provide crucial post disaster activities, including structural safety assessment, damage assessment, damage data collection, retrieval of critical documents, debris management, human capacity building, establishment of assessment technical platforms and training programs, as well as development of reconstruction strategies. Our goal is to make a positive impact worldwide through our engineering experience. To this end we partner with governments and international organizations, bringing together a broad knowledge base and becoming a conduit for action. As a global leader in engineering, partnering with the World Bank, United Nations, USAID, and various NGOs, we continually respond to disasters to help restore safety. Select Global Partners Selected Governments • Government of Haiti • Government of Romania • Government of Thailand (Royal Thai Government) • Republic of Turkey • State of California Non-Government Agencies • Adoration Christian Centre • Aide Medicale Internationale • Caterpillar Foundation • Caritas Autriche • Clinton Bush Haiti Fund • Development Alternatives, Inc. (DAI) • European Commission Humanitarian Aid & Civil Protection (ECHO) • European Union • Japan Emergency Non-Governmental Organization (JEN) • Ministry of Public Works, Transportation and Communications we are working to create a network of global (MTPTC) offices and companies that extensively • Ministry of Transport, Construction and Tourism support each other. • Pan American Development Foundation (PADF) • United States Agency for International Development (USAID) • United Nations Office for Project Services (UNOPS) • United Nations AIDS Program (UNAIDS) • United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP) • United Nations Population Fund (UNFPA) • United Nations Children’s Fund (UNICEF) • United Nations Development Program (UNDP) • World Bank 29 Key Strategies We are a decentralized, coordinated, and constantly evolving company. We open new offices where disaster mitigation and reconstruction activities are required by partnering with local firms or individuals. Our presence makes the community a better place. We focus on high-performance engineering, delivering unique value that justifies the highest profitability, allowing us to continue our research into advanced technical solutions. We are committed to building a powerful brand, one that is known worldwide, through high-quality staff; relentless public relations; and consistent application of the Miyamoto name, graphic image, and approach. We are committed to being a progressive, innovative, and creative company in the way that we lead our staff, work with strategic partners, and manage our company. We are one company. We use and share resources, our workforce, and expertise from office locations for optimal quality and cost-effectiveness. We are committed to having fun, and to being a positive influence on the world and the communities we serve. 31 “I know that repairing one school may not be a priority for large international organizations, but it is also true that the act of strengthening one school will create public awareness of the desperate condition of Haitian schools and promotes further action. Miyamoto Relief provides the strategic leadership necessary to save children’s lives.” –H. Kit Miyamoto, President While responding to natural disasters throughout the world, Dr. Kit Miyamoto witnessed the tragic loss of human life— including tens of thousands of children—when structures failed needlessly due to a lack of engineering knowledge, improper building practices and the use of substandard materials. Dr. Miyamoto founded Miyamoto Global Disaster Relief (Miyamoto Relief), a non-profit organization dedicated to saving lives through engineering. Miyamoto Relief is a 501(c)(3) non-profit corporation that provides disaster mitigation response, relief and reconstruction services throughout the world following a natural disaster. It provides immediate and long-term engineering, construction and management expertise at the critical phases of a disaster without the need to earn a profit. Miyamoto Relief is currently helping to rebuild earthquake damaged schools in Port-au-Prince, Haiti. More about Miyamoto Relief: Miyamoto Relief on News 10 Miyamoto Relief in the Sacramento Business Journal Miyamoto Relief Founder Kit Miyamoto in the Sacramento Bee PARTNERS we save lives To make a donation please visit our website at miyamotorelief.org through engineering. DONATE NOW 33 Media PBS News Hour: After Haiti Quake, Using Anderson Cooper of CNN Reports the Haiti TVNZ Interviews Simon MacDonald of Science to Build Sturdier Buildings Earthquake Featuring Miyamoto International Miyamoto+Cardno Returning People to Safe Homes in Haiti: CNN American Morning Reports on News 3 Interviews Michael King of The First Step Miyamoto International’s Work in Haiti Miyamoto+Cardno About Christchurch New Zealand News 3 Reports On CNN News Covers Kit Miyamoto’s Report Miyamoto’s Evaluation of CBD on Structural Damage to Sendai After the Demolition 2011 Earthquake About Visit the below links to learn more about Miyamoto International, our culture, our work and our people. • Awards YouTube • In the News • Press Releases 35 www.miyamotointernational.com © Copyright 2012 Miyamoto International Sacramento | Washington D.C. | Los Angeles | Orange County | San Francisco San Diego | Portland | Haiti | Milan | Istanbul | Tokyo | New Zealand | Bangkok
