UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2011 About Holcim Holcim is one of the world’s leading suppliers of cement and aggregates (crushed stone, gravel and sand), as well as further activities such as ready-mix concrete and asphalt including services. The Group has majority and minority holdings in around 70 countries across all continents. Holcim has been a member of the UN Global Compact since 2003 and reports yearly on progress made in implementing the ten principles of the UN Global Compact. This Communication on Progress refers to 2011 data and performance information which has been published in Holcim’s Corporate Sustainable Development Report 2011 and updated on Holcim’s website in June 2012. Statement of Support from CEO Bernard Fontana: “Holcim continues to participate in the UN Global Compact and remains committed to its philosophy, intent and principles. To strengthen our adherence to the Compact, the relevant principles were referenced and are reflected in a new Directive on the use of contract labor issued in January 2012, which is binding on all Holcim Group companies. The principles also provided the foundation for the Holcim Supplier Code of Conduct issued in 2011. At local level, Holcim has been elected in 2011 to the board of the Swiss Global Compact network and remains involved in the local networks in many other countries where Holcim operates.” Criteria Holcim commitment Links Strategy, Governance and Engagement Description of Holcim’s commitment 1. C-suite and Board level discussions of strategic aspects of Global Compact implementation • Impact of broader sustainability Holcim is committed to creating value for all its • CEO and Chairman Statement in the trends on the long-term prospects stakeholders and has placed sustainable Annual Report. (See page 10) and financial performance of the development at the heart of its business strategy. • Chairman statement and CEO interview organization in CSDR 2011(See pages 3 to 5) • Business Risk section in the Annual Report. (See pages 42 and 127) 1 Criteria Holcim commitment Links • SD materiality review in the CSDR and online • Major sustainability risks and Holcim has a well-embedded business risk • SD materiality review in the CSDR and opportunities in the near to medium management process for identifying risks at both online term (3-5 years) corporate and Group company level. Since 2007, a materiality review has been implemented to ensure the identification of sustainability risks and opportunities. • Social and environmental impact of The most important contribution to sustainable • CEO and Chairman Statement in the the organization’s activities development is through products and services. The Annual Report. (See page 10) current SD priorities of Holcim are: • SD materiality review in the CSDR and • sustainable products and sustainable online construction • energy and climate • resources conservation • social engagement • Overall strategy to manage Holcim has a well-embedded business risk • Vision and strategy section of the SD sustainability impacts, risks and management process for identifying risks at both Website and CSDR opportunities in the near to medium corporate and Group company level. Sustainability impacts, risks and opportunities are included in the • Business Risk section in the Annual term remit of the risk management process. Report. (See pages 42 and 127) • SD materiality review in the CSDR and online • Key performance indicators to Sustainable development data and performance • SD Performance Data included in the measure progress information is updated on a yearly basis on Holcim’s CSDR 2011. (Pages 30 to 35) website. • Major successes and failures during See link. • Sustainable Development section in the the reporting period Annual Report. (See page 53) 2 Criteria Holcim commitment Links 2. Effective decision-making process and systems of governance for corporate sustainability • Involvement and accountability of A steering group for SD operates as a sub-committee • Embedding our commitments, CSDR management (C-suite) in corporate of the Executive Committee and includes the CEO, 2011, Page 7 sustainability strategy two other Exco member and the head of sustainable development • Organization and Management section in and implementation in line with the Annual Report. (See page 39) Global Compact principles • Corporate governance structure (Board of Directors or equivalent) and its role in oversight of corporate sustainability implementation in line with Global Compact principles • Evaluation and executive incentive For the most senior executives a standard variable • Human Resources section in the Annual structures promoting sustainability compensation system is in place. SD indicators form Report. (See page 58) strategy in line with Global Compact an integral part. principles 3. Engagement with all important stakeholders • List of stakeholder groups engaged Key stakeholders are included on our website. We • See “stakeholder” section on our website by the organization have an independent expert panel of stakeholders who review our materiality process and give recommendations in our report. 3 Criteria Holcim commitment Links • Process for stakeholder At Holcim, developing and maintaining strong • See “stakeholder” section on our website identification and engagement relationships with its stakeholders is vital to the success of its business. Holcim is committed to a continuous process of listening to, and learning from, people and organizations engaged with its operations around the world. • Outcome of stakeholder Holcim remains committed to ongoing consultation • See “stakeholder” section on our website involvement with a broad range of stakeholders, as demonstrated by the fact that 61% of Group companies have a community advisory panel in place and 84% conducted a stakeholder dialog in 2011. • Process of incorporating For example an External Report Review Panel has • See “stakeholder” section on our website stakeholder input into corporate been asked to give feedback to Holcim’s SD and strategy and business decisionmateriality review. making • Stakeholder Panel Statement and response in the 2011 CSDR, page 38 UN Goals and Issues 4. Actions taken in support of broader UN goals and issues • Adoption or modification of Holcim is committed to creating value for all its • Vision and Strategy section in the CSDR business strategy and operating stakeholders. Sustainable development has been 2011 procedures to maximize placed at the heart of the business strategy for many years, as it contributes to adding value and ensuring • Innovation Section of the Annual report contribution to UN goals and issues continued success. 2011 (Page 46) • Development of products, services As a major player in the industry, Holcim has a role to • Sustainable Solutions and Construction and business models that contribute to sustainable products and building chapter in the 2011 CSDR (Page 10) contribute to UN goals and issues techniques through product and process innovation. • Innovation Section of the Annual report 4 Criteria Holcim commitment Links 2011 (Page 46) • Affordable housing case studies in CSDR (Page 27) • Foundation for Sustainable Construction • Social investments and Holcim aims to link its CSR engagement with its • See the Social Engagement pages of the philanthropic contributions that tie in business activities. Group companies focus on 2011 CSDR, (Pages 25 to 29) with the organization’s core projects in collaboration with stakeholders where the competencies, operating context expertise can contribute to achieving greater impacts. and strategy Engagement areas include education provision, infrastructure building and sustainable community development. A Creating Shared Value (CSV) initiative, aiming at identifying projects that address a social problem and create a business return, has been kicked off in Asia in 2012. • Public advocacy on the importance Holcim constructively contributes to the climate • More information on Holcim’s position on of one or more UN goals and issues change policy debate to develop effective regulatory climate change. incentives to improve energy efficiency and CO2 intensity. 5 Criteria Holcim commitment Links • Partnership projects and collective Holcim has a number of corporate strategic Links: actions in support of UN goals and partnerships with GIZ; ICRC; IUCN; WBCSD and • GIZ; issues UNGC. Furthermore operating companies engage in many local partnerships • ICRC; • IUCN; • WBCSD & CSI; • UNGC • List of partnerships on our website Human Rights Implementation 5. Robust commitments, strategies and policies in the area of human rights • Reference to relevant international Holcim's commitment to human rights is part of our • Link to Holcim CSR Policy (Refers to the conventions and other international CSR policy and reflected in our participation in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights) instruments UN Global Compact. • Written company policy (e.g. in the code of conduct) on human rights • Reflection on the relevance of Human rights have been identified as an important • SD materiality review in the CSDR 2011, human rights for the company issue in the SD materiality review. page 9 6 Criteria Holcim commitment Links • Allocation of responsibilities and Human rights management is coordinated by the accountabilities within the social responsibility department in collaboration with organization the risk management unit and other relevant functions such as Human Resources and Procurement. 6. Effective management systems to integrate human rights principles • Risk and impact assessments in the Human Rights are part of Holcim’s risk management area of human rights system: In addition, specific assessments are conducted in countries where HR issues arise. Holcim is currently developing a Group-wide human rights management system in line with John Ruggie’s Guiding Principles. A human rights risk mapping at Group level as well as in-depth human rights impact assessments have been conducted in selected higher-risk countries in 2011 and 2012. Holcim is furthermore part of the pilot group of companies that is testing the UNGC / PRI “Guidance on responsible business in conflict-affected and high-risk areas.” • Regular stakeholder consultations The Holcim External Report Review Panel has • SD materiality review in the CSDR 2011, in the area of human rights identified human rights as an issue of high page 9 importance in Holcim’s SD materiality review. In addition, 13% of Group companies report conducting specific stakeholder dialogue on human rights related issues. • Internal awareness-raising and 43% of Group companies report including equal • Section on Human Rights, CSDR 2011, training on human rights for opportunity issues in training programs, while 31% of page 29 management and employees Group companies report covering human rights in 7 Criteria Holcim commitment Links employee training. • Grievance mechanisms, 86% of Group companies report having systems to • Section on “Our People” in CSDR 2011, communication channels and other collect and handle employee grievances and page 22 procedures (e.g. whistleblower complaints, and 65% report having arrangements for mechansims) for reporting concerns submitting complaints and/or grievances or seeking advice anonymously. Furthermore, 23% report having specific committees in place to deal with human rights disputes. 8 Criteria Holcim commitment Links • Inclusion of minimum human rights Holcim is implementing a Sustainable Procurement • Supplier screening data in the standards in contracts with Initiative. A Supplier Code of Conduct has already performance data tables of the 2011 suppliers and other relevant been published and communicated to suppliers and a CSDR, page 30 business partners methodology for identifying and assessing critical • Audits or other steps to monitor and suppliers against SD criteria, including the aspects improve the human rights covered by the UNGC has been developed and is performance of companies in the currently being rolled out. supply chain 7. Effective monitoring and evaluation mechanisms of human rights integration • System to track and measure Holcim is currently developing a Group-wide human performance based on rights management system in line with John Ruggie’s standardized performance metrics Guiding Principles that includes comprehensive issue monitoring. Indicators are based on the Danish Institute’s Human Rights Compliance Assessment Quick Check. A human rights risk mapping at Group level as well as in-depth human rights impact assessments in selected countries have been conducted in 2011 and 2012. Tracking and monitoring performance is part of this system. Holcim furthermore monitors its impacts through continuous stakeholder engagement that includes Community Advisory Panels and regular needs assessments. • Leadership review of monitoring Group company leadership monitors performance and improvement results and improvement results as part of the annual business planning and risk management cycle. In addition, results of human rights impact assessments are reviewed by top management and corresponding actions defined. 9 Criteria Holcim commitment Links • Process to deal with incidents All Holcim Group companies are required to have Community Engagement Plans that includes the establishment of Community Advisory Panels where appropriate. The Sustainable Development function at corporate level supports Group companies in addressing potential challenges with site visits, stakeholder engagement activities, cooperation with global and local expert organizations, workshops and training. 8. Standardized performance indicators (including GRI) on human rights • Outcomes of risk and impact Holcim is currently developing a Group-wide human assessments rights management system that includes human rights impact assessments in selected countries of operation. The assessment process includes the development of an action plan to address identified risks, if applicable, which includes clearly defined timelines and responsibilities. Progress is monitored and reported at local and corporate levels. • Outcomes of internal awareness 43% of Group companies report including equal raising and training efforts opportunity issues in training programs, while 31% of Group companies report covering human rights in employee training. • Outcomes of mechanisms for The share of Group companies reporting having reporting concerns or seeking anonymous procedures for submitting complaints or advice grievances increased in the reporting period (2011: 86%; 2010: 76%). Additionally, 23% of Group companies report having special committees responsible for hearing, processing and settling disputes related to human rights issues in place. 10 Criteria Holcim commitment Links • Percentage of contracts with 29% of Group companies report screening all major business partners guaranteeing investments for human rights-related risks and 33% minimum human rights standards of Group companies report specifically screening investments where a risk has been identified. A Supplier Code of Conduct has been implemented in the context of Holcim’s Sustainable Procurement Initiative. Templates for contractual agreements with suppliers cover UNGC principles. • Outcome of audits or other steps to Holcim is implementing a Sustainable Procurement • Supplier screening data in the monitor and improve performance Initiative. A Supplier Code of Conduct has already performance data tables of the 2011 in the supply chain been published and communicated to suppliers and a CSDR, page 30 methodology for identifying and assessing critical suppliers against SD criteria, including the aspects covered by the UNGC has been developed and is currently being rolled out. Labour Principles Implementation 9. Robust commitments, strategies or policies in the area of labour • Reference to relevant international Holcim's commitment to employment practices is part • Link to Holcim CSR Policy (Refers to the conventions and other international of its CSR policy and reflected in its participation in Universal Declaration of Human Rights) instruments (eg. ILO Core the UN Global Compact. In order to formalize this Conventions) & written company commitment, Holcim has issued a Contract Workers policy on labour Directive in 2012, which addresses all the areas covered by the ILO Core Conventions. • Reflection on the relevance of the Employment practices have been identified as an • SD materiality review in the CSDR 2011, labour principles in the company important issue in the SD materiality review. page 9 • Allocation of responsibilities and Responsibility and accountability for labor rights lies accountability within the with the human resources department of Holcim and organization the operating companies, in coordination with the Social Responsibility department of the SD function. 11 Criteria Holcim commitment Links 10. Effective management systems to integrate the labour principles • Risk and impact assessments in the Employment practices have been identified as an • SD materiality review in the CSDR 2011, area of labour important issue in the SD materiality review. page 9 • Regular stakeholder consultations The Holcim External Report Review Panel has • SD materiality review in the CSDR 2011, in the area of labour identified employment practices as an issue of high page 9 importance in Holcim’s SD materiality review. • Internal awareness-raising and Holcim is committed to providing equal opportunities • Section on “Our People” in CSDR 2011, training on the labour principles for for all its employees and works on strengthening a page 22 management and employees culture of mutual respect, trust and openness. • Grievance mechanisms, 86% of Group companies report having systems to • Section on “Our People” in CSDR 2011, communication channels and other collect and handle employee grievances and page 22 procedures (e.g. whistleblower complaints, and 65% report having arrangements for mechanisms) for reporting concerns submitting complaints and/or grievances or seeking advice anonymously. In January 2012, we issued a new antibribery and corruption directive as part of our company Code of Conduct. Through the adoption of the Anti-Bribery and Corruption Directive (ABCD) Holcim has mandated that each Holcim Group Company adopt a whistleblowing system (WBS) in the event it does not already have one in place. Guidance has been issued to Group Companies to assist them in implementing a new WBS or in measuring existing WBS systems. Three Group companies reported incidents of discrimination in 2011, which were dealt with in accordance with the Holcim Code of Conduct. • Inclusion of minimum labour Holcim is implementing a Sustainable Procurement • Supplier screening data in the standards in contracts with Initiative. A Supplier Code of Conduct has already performance data tables of the 2011 12 Criteria Holcim commitment Links suppliers and other relevant been published and communicated to suppliers and a CSDR, page 30 business partners methodology for identifying and assessing critical • Audits or other steps to monitor and suppliers against SD criteria, including the aspects improve the labour performance of covered by the UNGC has been developed and is companies in the supply chain currently being rolled out. Templates for contractual agreements with suppliers cover UNGC principles. Environmental Stewardship Implementation 11. Robust commitments, strategies or policies in the area of environmental stewardship • Reference to relevant international Holcim’s commitment to sustainable development is • Link to environment policy on Holcim conventions and other international part of its mission statement and is further website instruments (e.g. Rio Declaration on demonstrated by its membership in the World Environment and Development) Business Council for Sustainable Development and its participation in the UN Global Compact Holcim is committed to continuously improve its • Reflection on relevance of • Link to environment policy on Holcim environmental performance and provide positive environmental stewardship for the website contributions to its business and to society. company • SD materiality review in the CSDR 2011, • Written company policy on page 9 environmental policy • Allocation of responsibilities and Environmental stewardship is part of the climate • Embedding our commitments, CSDR accountability within the change, environment, alternative resources and 2011, Page 7 organization environmental relations functions with the Holcim SD department • Specific commitments and goals for All environmental commitments and targets are listed • Progress towards targets CSDR 2011 – specified years in the progress towards targets. see page 2 12. Effective management systems to integrate the environmental principles 13 Criteria Holcim commitment Links • Environmental risk and impact CO2 and energy, eco-efficient products, atmospheric • SD materiality review in the CSDR 2011, assessments emissions, resources management and biodiversity page 9 have been identified of high importance and waste and transport as well as water as of medium importance in the SD materiality review. • Regular stakeholder consultations Holcim is committed to a continuous process of In our CSDR please see: on environmental impact listening to, and learning from, people and • External panel role – page 9 organizations on its environmental impact around the world. This is done through the WBCSD or IUCN’s • External panel statement page independent expert panel etc. 38 See also our website section on stakeholders • Section on “Our People” in CSDR 2011, • Internal awareness-raising and Internal awareness-raising and training on training on environmental environmental stewardship for management is part of page 22 stewardship for management and internal communication and Holcim’s training employees activities. Sustainable Development topics, including environmental aspects are covered in all our leadership training courses. • Grievance mechanisms, 86% of Group companies have systems to collect • Section on “Our People” in CSDR 2011, communication channels and other and handle employee grievances and complaints, page 22 procedures (e.g. whistleblower and 65% have arrangements for submitting mechanisms) for reporting concerns complaints and/or grievances anonymously. or seeking advice regarding environmental impacts • Inclusion of minimum environmental 91% of Holcim Group companies screen local • Supplier screening data in the standards in contracts with suppliers ensuring that they have an environmental performance data tables of the 2011 suppliers and other relevant management system in place. CSDR, page 30 business partners • Audits or other steps to monitor and Holcim is implementing a Sustainable Procurement 14 Criteria Holcim commitment Links improve the environmental Initiative. A Supplier Code of Conduct has already performance of companies in the been published and communicated to suppliers and a supply chain methodology for identifying and assessing critical suppliers against SD criteria, including the aspects covered by the UNGC is being developed. The development process involved internal workshops and interviews with selected external stakeholders. 13. Effective monitoring and evaluation mechanisms for environmental stewardship • System to track and measure The Plant Environmental Profile self-assessment • CSDR 2011 Methodology section – page performance based on questionnaire is the source of performance 36 standardized performance metrics information and data to all other environmental impacts of the cement, aggregates and ready-mix concrete business segments. Consolidation of CO2 and energy data is consistent with the WBCSD/WRI cement CO2 protocol. • Leadership review of monitoring SD committees supports the overall decision-making • Embedding our commitments, CSDR and improvement results process and propose key issues to the Executive 2011, Page 7 Committee 14. Standardized performance indicators A comprehensive list of environmental indicators and • SD Performance Data included in the (including GRI) on environmental Holcims performance against those indicators is CSDR 2011. (Pages 30 to 35) stewardship available on our website. See link opposite. See also • Link to Carbon Disclosure Project link to the Carbon Disclosure Project where Holcims submission may be downloaded. 15 Criteria Holcim commitment Links • Outcome of audits or other steps to Holcim is implementing a Sustainable Procurement • Supplier screening data in the monitor and improve performance Initiative. A Supplier Code of Conduct has already performance data tables of the 2011 in the supply chain been published and communicated to suppliers and a CSDR, page 30 methodology for identifying and assessing critical suppliers against SD criteria, including the aspects covered by the UNGC is being developed. The development process involved internal workshops and interviews with selected external stakeholders. Anti-Corruption Implementation 15. Robust commitment, strategies and policies in the area of anti-corruption • Reference to relevant international Holcim applies the highest standards of business • Holcim Code of Conduct conventions and other international conduct. The Holcim Code of Conduct provides the instruments (e.g. UN Convention guiding principles against which to make decisions. Against Corruption) This commitment is further demonstrated by its membership in the World Business Council for Sustainable Development and its participation in the UN Global Compact. • Reflection on relevance of antiHolcim applies high standards to corporate • Holcim Code of Conduct corruption for the company governance. Since 2004, binding for the entire group, • See CSDR 2011, page 8 – “Operating • Written company policy on antithe Code of Conduct defines Group-wide standards with integrity” corruption (e.g. in code of conduct) of business behavior expected of all staff. • Allocation of responsibilities and For information regarding the organization see: • Holcim website accountability regarding corruption organization and management within the organization 16. Effective management systems to integrate the anti-corruption principle • Risk and impact assessments in the Corporate governance has been identified as an • SD materiality review in the CSDR 2011, area of anti-corruption issue of high importance in business risk page 9 management and in the SD materiality review 16 Criteria Holcim commitment Links • Regular stakeholder consultations The Holcim External Report Review Panel has • SD materiality review in the CSDR 2011, in the area of anti-corruption identified employment practices as an issue of high page 9 importance in Holcim’s SD materiality review. • Internal awareness-raising and Holcim has introduced a centrally coordinate training • See CSDR 2011, page 8 – “Operating training on anti-corruption efforts for program in this area. with integrity” management and employees • Grievance mechanisms, 86% of Group companies report having systems to communication channels and other collect and handle employee grievances and procedures (e.g. whistleblower complaints, and 65% report having arrangements for mechanisms) for reporting concerns submitting complaints and/or grievances or seeking advice on corruption anonymously. • Inclusion of minimum antiHolcim is implementing a Sustainable Procurement • Supplier screening data in the corruption standards in contracts Initiative. A Supplier Code of Conduct has already performance data tables of the 2011 with suppliers and other relevant been published and communicated to suppliers and a CSDR, page 30 business partners methodology for identifying and assessing critical • Audits or other steps to monitor suppliers against SD criteria, including the aspects corruption and improve the covered by the UNGC is being developed. The performance of companies in the development process involved internal workshops supply chain and interviews with selected external stakeholders. 17. Effective monitoring and evaluation The Holcim Code of Conduct covers all aspects of • Holcim Code of Conduct mechanisms for the integration of antiour operations, including specific provisions on corruption bribery and corruption. Group companies are responsible for ensuring that their managers and employees are aware of their responsibilities under the code and for implementing appropriate measures. These include training and information sessions, integration of the code provision into contracts and a requirement for employees to sign the code. • Process to deal with incidents The code is very clear – violations will not be tolerated. Non compliance with the code may be 17 Criteria Holcim commitment Links subject to disciplinary sanctions including termination of employment; and this is explicitly stated within the code. 18. Standardized performance indicators See link to GRI content index opposite which • GRI content index. (including GRI) on anti-corruption contains a comprehensive list of GRI indicators. Value Chain Implementation • 19. Implementation of the Global Compact Holcim is implementing a Sustainable Procurement • Supplier screening data in the principles in the value chain Initiative. A Supplier Code of Conduct has already performance data tables of the 2011 been published and communicated to suppliers and a CSDR, page 30 methodology for identifying and assessing critical suppliers against SD criteria, including the aspects covered by the UNGC has been developed and is currently being rolled out. • Audits/screening for compliance in See link opposite • Supplier screening data on the Holcim the value chain website Transparency and Verification 20. Information on the company’s profile and context of operation • Legal structure, including any group See link • Corporate Governance section in the structure or ownership Annual Report. (See page 121) • Countries where the organization See link • Link to Annual Report. (See page 229) operates, with either major operations or operations that are specifically relevant to sustainability • Markets served (including See link • Link to Annual Report. (See page 7 and geographic breakdown, sectors also business reviews pages 83 -103) served, and types of 18 Criteria Holcim commitment Links customers/beneficiaries) • Primary brands, products, and/or See link • Link to Annual Report. (See page 8) services • Direct and indirect economic value See link • Link to Economic impact along the value generated for various stakeholders chain graphic (value chain) on the Holcim (employees, owners, government, website lenders, etc.) 21. High standards of transparency and disclosure • COP uses the Global Reporting Yes – See link • GRI content index. Initiative Sustainability Reporting Guidelines • COP qualifies for Level A+ of the CSDR 2009 • CSDR GRI application levels • COP includes comparison of key Yes – See link • SD Performance Data included in the performance indicators for the CSDR 2011. (Pages 30 to 35) previous 2-3 years 22. Independently verified by a credible third party • Independently verified against Yes – See link • CSDR (see assurance statements, page assurance standard (e.g. AA1000 37 and 38) Assurance Standard, ISAE 3000) • Verified by independent auditors Yes – See link • CSDR (see assurance statements, page 37 and 38) • Reviewed by a multi-stakeholder Yes – See link • Information on the panel – Holcim panel website 19 20
