MESA MAKINA DOKUM A.S UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2011 REPORT MESA MAKINA DOKUM A.S. BRIEF Mesa Makina was founded in the city of Konya in 1979 modern and wellequipped engineering facilities to produce Oem parts for automotive, heavy construction equipment agricultural equipment and energy sector using casting and machining technologies. There are presently 15 white collar and 125 blue collar altogether 140 employees involved in production and we produce 7500 tons casting products per year. Present expansion plan include 30.600 m2 open area and 12.500 m2 closed area factory. The first etape 5000 m2 finished in january 2007 and we start to work in this area in Konya industrial zone. Our company will continue to other investment in 2011 and we will close 3500 m2 extra area for machining workshop. Since 1999 the company has ISO 9001 and since 2008 we have ISO TS 16949 certificate. Mesa has been audited by several industrial assocations and recognized as an A CLASS SUPPLIER Mesa was awarded the IVECO Quality Prize recognition of its high class standarts. Today Mesa export 80% of its product to European Countries Germany, Italy, Netherland, Spain, Finland, France, Denmark and also China in far eastern country with the AUTOMOTIVE, HEAVY CONSTRUCTION ,AGRICULTURAL EQUIPMENT, and ENERGY sectors being its main export focus. OUR MISSION We are existing as solution partner for your dreams of shaping the metal. OUR VISSION To be a leader , innovative and global company producing information and technology together with our employees being a strong and trusty family. OUR VALUES Honest and Trusty Dynamic,Flexible and Agile Complementary Teamwork Creative and Innovative Effective and Efficient Internal and External Customer Satisfaction and Addiction Community-sensitive and Enviromentally OUR STRENGTS 32 years experience in sector Having ISO TS 16949 A Class Supplier Export 80% of Our Products to the EU Countries Co-design capability 'Market-oriented' global perspective COP 2011 REPORT Managing Director Message We are very happy to be a member of Global Compact. Our company values and our vission are also support Global Compact Principles. We signed the UN Global Compact in June 2010 which is a strategic policy initiative for business that are committed to aligning their operations. Our company commit that we will carry out on implementing the ten principles of Global Compact and undertake a make clear statement of this commitment. Seyma AYHAN Managing Director HUMAN RIGHTS Our principle on that point has been declareted to our employees,customers and suppliers aware of social responsibilities and protecting human rights. Also we declared our UN Global Compact membership in our web site. LABOUR We have never practice any violation related to forced labor,compulsary labor,child labor child and women exploitation and discriminiation in recept of employment and occopation directly or indirectly before. ENVIROMENT Mesa Makine fulfill its responsibilities related to the enviroment.We always work with suppliers admitting their responsibilities to enviroment. ANTI-CORRUPTION Our principle on this point has been declared to our employees,shareholders and customers. Our employees and suppliers must obey the law and avoid and activity that places Mesa in a difficult legal position or hurts its reputation. PERFORMANS INDICATORS INDICATORS Target Trainning for per person/year 40 hours Personnel satification ratio % 90 Increasing the woman personnel 15% every year Work accident 0 Having a OHSAS 18001certificate Year of 2013 Having a ISO 14001 Year of 2013
