CSR Report 2012 Love today, Love your life. Editorial Policy CSR Communication Tools Lion views its CSR Report as an important tool allowing the Company to communicate its CSR initiatives and draw on stakeholder opinions while furthering corporate activities. The CSR Report 2012 was prepared taking into account the following points. ・ Since 2011, CSR activities have been systematized in accordance with ISO26000, an international standard concerning social responsibility. The CSR Report is also complied following the trend. ・Third-party reviews by outside experts have been included to provide an objective assessment. Reference guidelines ・The Environmental Reporting Guidelines (2012) of the Japanese Ministry of the Environment ・The Sustainability Reporting Guidelines (2006) of the CSR Report Global Reporting Initiative ・ISO26000: Guidance on social responsibility issued by The purpose of the CSR Report is to communicate Japanese Standards Association what corporate social responsibility (CSR) means to Lion and to outline Lion’s CSR activities. It provides an overview of the Lion’s approach to CSR and describes Coverage activities carried out during 2010. Contents covered Lion Group in greater detail on the Company website are marked Lion Corporation, Lion Chemical Co., Ltd., with URL . Lion Packaging Co., Ltd., Lion Engineering Co., Ltd., Lion Dental Products Co., Ltd., Lion Trading Co., Ltd., Lion Hygiene Co., Ltd., Lion Business Service Co., Ltd., Lion Field Marketing Co., Ltd., Lion Logistics Service Co., Ltd., Lion Cordial Support Co., Ltd., Issua Co., Ltd., Ipposha Oil Industries Co., Ltd., Lion Akzo Co., Ltd. Period Covered January 1 to December 31, 2011 (In places, activity reports refer to 2012 initiatives.) Website (CSR Section) The aim of the CSR section of Lion’s website is to ensure timely and appropriate disclosure of information required by customers, experts and all other stakeholders. As well as providing more detail than the booklet, the website is also designed for greater visual appeal. URL http://www.lion.co.jp/ja/csr/ (Japanese only) CONTENTS Contents…………………………………………… 01 Corporate Data… ……………………………… 02 Message from the Management…………… 04 Special Features: Lion’s responses to the Great East Japan Earthquake ………… 06 Lion and CSR… ……………… 08 Basic Approach / Lion’s CSR Objectives and Major Activities in 2011 / Foundation for Business / Management Vision / Business activities / Overview of Lion’s CSR Activities / Response to ISO26000 Organizational Governance…… 16 Basic Approach / Corporate Governance System / Risk Management / Establishment of Internal Control Systems / Enhancement of Information Disclosure Human Rights…………………18 Basic Approach / Frameworks to Ensure Respect for Human Rights / Contact for Consultation and Internal Reporting Eco Leaflet Labor Practices… ……………19 The compact Eco Leaflet explains Lion’s environmental Basic Approach / Human Resource Diversity / Promoting activities to customers and all other stakeholders Work-Life Balance / Safety and Disaster Prevention Initiatives in a straightforward manner using diagrams and / Human Resource Development / Employee Health Management illustrations. (Japanese only) The Environment………………24 Basic Approach / Environmental Guidelines / Environmental Management Structure / Environmental Management System / Legal Compliance / Environmental Targets and Achievements / Environmental Accounting / EcoEfficiency / Overview of Environmental Impact of Lion’s Business Activities / Environmental Communication / Prevention of Pollution / Sustainable Resource Use / Climate Change Mitigation and Adaptation / Biodiversity Conservation Fair Operating Practices……… 34 Basic Approach / Promoting Compliance / Initiatives for Value Chains / Respect for Intellectual Property Right Consumer Issues…… … … 36 Basic Approach / Appropriate Information Provision / Approach to Safety and Reliability / Responding to VOC (Voice of Customer) / Information Security / Enhancing Information Provision to Customers / Considering the Environment from a Lion 120 Eco Stories Product-Oriented Perspective / Environmental Considerations in Product Composition Development / “3Rs” for Reducing We compiled our environmental activities and useful Containers and Packaging information for our customers into a booklet. Community Involvement and Development …… 42 Basic Approach / Activities of Lion Foundation for Dental Health / Protection of Water Resources / Major Social Contribution Activities (2011) Third-Party Review… …………………………… 46 Editorial Note……………………………………… 47 CSR Report 2012 01 Corporate Data ● Financial Indicators Corporate Name Lion Corporation Net Sales (million yen) Address 3-7, Honjo 1-chome, Sumida-ku, Tokyo 400,000 130-8644, Japan 350,000 341,717 338,236 331,100 321,947 327,500 Foundation October 30, 1891 300,000 Capital ¥34,433.72 million (as of December 31, 2011) President Itsuo Hama (as of January 1, 2012) 250,000 Employees Consolidated: 5,973 200,000 Non-consolidated: 2,439 (as of December 31, 2011) 150,000 Net Sales Consolidated: ¥327,500 million 100,000 Non-consolidated: ¥253,100 million (for the term ended December 2011) 50,000 Plants Chiba Plant (Ichihara City), Odawara Plant 0 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 (year) (Odawara City), Osaka Plant (Sakai City), Akashi Plant (Akashi City) Operating Income Research Hirai (Edogawa-ku), Honjo (Sumida-ku), Odawara (million yen) Facilities (Odawara City) 12,000 11,169 Sales Offices Sapporo, Sendai, Tokyo, Nagoya, Osaka, Fukuoka 10,036 10,500 10,000 8,905 8,277 8,000 ● Net Sales Breakdown by Business 6,000 Consumer Products Business ¥262.38 billion 4,000 Oral Care Products ¥50.83 billion Beauty Care Products ¥22.80 billion 2,000 Pharmaceutical Products ¥38.44 billion 0 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 (year) Fabric Care Products ¥79.57 billion Living Care Products Ordinary Income ¥23.19 billion (million yen) Other Business ¥47.51 billion 14,000 11,795 12,183 Industrial Products Business ¥52.41 billion 12,000 11,145 Overseas Business ¥53.75 billion 10,104 10,000 Others ¥26.38 billion 8,000 7,603 Adjustment ※ ▲ ¥67.43 billion 6,000 Consolidated Net Sales ¥327.50 billion 4,000 ※ Intra-segment and inter-segment sales 2,000 ● Location of Overseas Group Companies 0 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 (year) Net Income (million yen) South Korea 7,000 CJ Lion Corporation 6,041 China 6,000 Lion Daily Necessities 5,423 5,465 Chemicals (Qingdao) Co., Ltd. 5,000 Thailand Taiwan Lion 4,077 Lion Chemical Industry (Taiwan) Co., Ltd. 4,000 Corporation (Thailand) Ltd. Hong Kong 3,040 Malaysia Lion Corporation (Hong Kong) Ltd. 3,000 Southern Singapore Lion Sdn. Bhd. 2,000 Lion Corporation (Singapore) Pte. Ltd. Malaysia Lion Eco 1,000 Chemicals Sdn. Bhd. Indonesia 0 P.T. Lion Wings 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 (year) 02 CSR Report 2012 ● Main Lines of Business Advanced oral care products to help customers stay healthy Oral Care Products Main Product Categories Toothpastes, toothbrushes, mouthwashes, and other dental products Hair and skin care products for health and comfort of body and mind Beauty Care Products Main Product Categories Shampoos, conditioners, hair-styling products, hair-nourishment treatments, hand soaps, body washes, men’s cosmetics, and antiperspirants A well-rounded range of brands to meet growing self-care needs Pharmaceutical Products Main Product Categories Consumer Products Business Analgesics, combination cold medicines, anti-diarrhoeals, gastrointestinal medicines, tonics and nutrients, eyedrops, anti-inflammatory poultices, acne medications, insecticides, and prescription drugs Fabric Care Products Offering you products you can trust to keep your clothes clean and smelling fresh Main Product Categories Laundry detergents, fine clothing care products, pre-care products, bleaches, fabric softeners, and maintenance products Living Care Products Products useful for clean and comfortable living and dining Main Product Categories Dishwashing detergents, household cleaners, and cooking aids Custom products tailored to meet individual needs Special Sales Main Product Categories Novelty items, gift items, and mail order items Industrial Products Business Chemical Products Performance chemicals based on interface science for a safe, sound and clean global environment Main Product Categories Surfactants, fatty acid nitrogen derivatives, glycerin, fatty acid methyl ester, and electro-conductive carbon Surfactants Detergents for precision parts and cleaning Conductive carbon and application items therefor products CSR Report 2012 03 Message from the Management Be a Company that Creates Value for Lifestyle Sadayoshi Fujishige Representative Director and Chairman Looking back on 2011 as a specialist for information on everyday life, we have First of all, I offer prayers for the deceased and extend my created, accumulated and relayed information. heartfelt condolences to all victims of the Great East Japan Earthquake. I also wish for the earliest restoration of the As for environmental initiatives, Lion has set goals to disaster-hit areas. Lion has provided ongoing human-toreduce CO2 emissions through business activities by 30% human support following the emergency aid provided in 2012, and by 40% in 2020 compared with the level immediately after the disaster. As part of the “Make of 1990, as a countermeasure against global warming. In Tohoku Well and Active Again” support project, we have 2011, we achieved a 35% reduction in CO2 emissions by conducted activities such as lectures by dental hygienists to improving production efficiency of detergents for clothing give advice on oral care at kindergartens and elementary and promoting activities for the “Challenge 25 Campaign”, schools, and educational activities by employees to make a a national movement for the prevention of global habit of washing hands at temporary childcare centers. In warming. In addition, our goals for 2012 were already hope of the reconstruction of the devastated areas as early achieved. As a maker of daily consumer products and as possible, and good health of the affected people, we at aiming to be an environmentally advanced company, Lion will continue to implement our unique initiatives. Lion will make efforts for reducing CO2 emitted through household use of the products. Striving to create higher value to markets by launching new innovative products in 2011, Lion provided useful Making a greater leap with products to lead healthy and comfortable lives, such New Management Vision as oral care products to prevent periodontal diseases, In 2011, thanks to your support, Lion commemorated the functional foods to promote the health of middle-aged 120th anniversary of the start-up of its operations. Since and elderly people, as well as a new type of toilet cleaner its foundation, Lion has been committed to management which offers a new way of cleaning. In addition, in order conscious about contribution to society, under the to relay innovative information, we newly established the company motto of “Fulfilling a Spirit of Love”. “Lion Comfortable Lifestyle Laboratories” which provides information suitable to individual lifestyles and is useful Marking the 120th anniversary of the start-up of its during major life transitions with an eye to realizing operations, Lion formulated a new management vision comfortable life. Appointing a “Meisters of Dairy Life” entitled “Vision 2020” with the aims of: 1) being a 04 CSR Report 2012 and Spiritual Fulfillment Itsuo Hama Representative Director and President company that creates value for lifestyle and spiritual management, we established a new system to enhance fulfillment; 2) being a company that is advanced in the corporate governance in which the chairperson serves as area of environmental responsiveness; and 3) being a Chief Executive Officer and the president serves as Chief company that continues to take on challenges, create and Operating Officer. Under this new system, in addition to learn. Furthermore, for furthering the new management business activities and corporate branding campaigns, we vision, a new company slogan of “life. love. Lion” was will continue to consider CSR activities to be important as set. It expresses our determination to make contributions one of three pillars to realize the new management vision. to people’s “todays” which can be made only by Lion, a In order to continue to be a company which is company which has continued to look after people’s lives trusted by society, Lion has enhanced CSR activities in for 120 years. accordance with the “ISO26000” international standards The ideal corporate image drawn by this new for social responsibility issued in 2010. By listening to management vision is a company that creates value our stakeholders, we accurately comprehend changes for lifestyle and spiritual fulfillment long into the future in people’s sense of value as well as the expected social by consistently safeguarding health, comfort and the roles of the companies. Then, we work on the following environment for people each and every day. “Value activities: Product development putting first priority on for lifestyle” means improving quality of life to be customer’s satisfaction; provision of services centering on comfortable, and “value for spiritual fulfillment” means activities for diffusion and enlightenment; utilization of leading a forward-looking life with a sense of fulfillment diverse human resources; creation of safe and comfortable and a rich spirit. The new management vision implies that workplaces; promotion of environmental conservation a happy life at the present moment and in the future can’t activities; facilitating fair trade; and contribution to local be created without achieving the both values. Firmly societies. Lion’s social responsibility is to be of help to determining to continue to be a company that helps society and contribute to people’s happy daily life through people’s lives, Lion will aim at making a greater leap. our business activities. In 2009, Lion declared its support for “the United Toward CSR management Nations Global Compact”, an international framework to In 2012, we started taking on challenges toward the achieve sustainable growth. Continuously supporting this realization of a future vision. Marking this milestone, Compact, Lion will make further efforts to conduct CSR in order to separate functions to supervise and execute management. CSR Report 2012 05 Special Lion’s Responses to the Great East Japan Earthquake Features When the Great East Japan Earthquake struck in March 2011, no human suffering was reported amongst our people throughout our Company including affiliates, but some offices and plants were damaged. The report on measures for recovery soon after the disaster and our support activities are shown below: Damages on the Lion Group We confirmed by the following day of the disaster been reinforced against earthquakes suffered no major that none of our employees and their family members, damage such as collapse. However, some products were including those of affiliated companies suffered any broken due to collapsing of cargo in warehouses and casualties. some plant facilities were partly damaged. The Company’s office buildings and plants which had Measures for Recovery Immediately after the Earthquake A disaster management task force headed by the president was set up at Lion’s Tokyo headquarters in line with the Company’s Earthquake Response Manual. After initially working to confirm employee safety and conditions at affected facilities, the task force set about formulating and implementing recovery plans for affected plants, as well as executing a pre-determined business continuity plan (BCP) including quick recovery of ordering/production system and securement of materials to ensure delivery of products as quick as possible. Disaster management task force Reducing Power Consumption by 28% Year-on-Year in “Eco First Summer 2011” As a designated “Eco First Company*, ” Lion issued its Tokyo Electric Power (TEPCO) and Tohoku Electric Power “Promises Regarding Eco First Summer 2011 Power companies by 15% or more. As the result of various efforts Conservation” aiming to cut its peak power consumption made, Lion achieved a 28% reduction, exceeding the from July through September in the service areas of target. Primary measures Working on a staggered shift basis Setting all air-conditioning system thermometers at 28℃, and wearing “cool biz” clothing Reducing power consumption for lighting, for example, by switching to LED lights Setting days or weeks with no overtime work Ensuring electricity with in-house power generation * Companies that have outstanding records in environmental Declaring the promise of power conservation to Mr. Matsumoto, the responsiveness are designated as “Eco First” companies by Japan’s former Minister of the Environment (left of center in the front row) Ministry of the Environment. 06 CSR Report 2012 Support Activities in the Devastated Areas Following the Great East Japan Earthquake, the Lion Group Activities with lectures by dental hygienists of LDH (the provided a total of the equivalent to ¥350 million in relief Lion Foundation for Dental Health) at kindergartens and donations as well as our products including toothpaste, elementary schools; the “Chase Away Germs! Rally” held laundry detergents and other items to those affected by at 100 kindergartens; and participation in the “Nationwide the disaster. Moreover, the Lion group has supported its Visiting Team to Encourage Enjoyment of Books” Campaign in employees to participate in activities of the One % Club of the co-operation with Kodansha Ltd. Japan Keidanren, as well as Global Compact Japan Network From 2012, the Lion Group has conducted support activities –sponsored volunteer assistance programmes in the affected for Ishinomaki City in Miyagi Prefecture, an area which is areas. closely tied with Tomijiro Kobayashi, the founder of Lion. In addition, as part of the “Make Tohoku Well and Active Wishing for the earliest reconstruction of the devastated areas Again” support project, the Lion Group conducted the and good health of the affected people, the Lion Group will following activities in the disaster-hit areas: the Dental Health continue to conduct support activities to be of help to people. Dental Health Activities by LDH The “Nationwide Visiting Team to Encourage Enjoyment of Books” Campaign The “Chase Away Germs! Rally” Presented planters made of timbers from forest thinning at the “Lion Forest in Yamanashi” to residents at a temporary housing Education activities to make a habit of washing hands held at temporary childcare centers CSR Report 2012 07 Lion and CSR Business Activities Supporting Clean, Healthy, Comfortable and Sustainable Life Basic Approach The origins of Lion’s approach to CSR can be traced based on the company motto and the management to the Company’s founding spirit of “working for the philosophy, Lion has contributed to sustainable benefit of people and society.” development of society through conducting business With the robust foundation for business established activities under the management vision. Sustainable corporate and social development Foundation Business With the aim of sustainable corporate for business activities and social development, Lion determines its CSR targets every year and conducts Management relevant activities, always responding vision to requests from society through dialogue with its stakeholders. For more details, see p.11 to 13 ● Company Motto/Management Philosophy ● Management Vision and Plan The Company Motto and Management Philosophy are determined by inheriting the We promote business activities Company’s founding spirit, as well as the Lion Group Charter for Corporate Behavior following the new management vision and Behavioral Guidelines, which were formulated to achieve the concept of the and corporate message determined motto and management philosophy. Each of Lion’s employees behaves and conducts as our corporate direction for the CSR activities in accordance with all of these concepts. next decade. For more details, see p.9 For more details, see p.10 Lion’s CSR Objectives and Major Activities in 2011 Until 2011, CSR activities had been conducted with Report 2012, items of objectives in 2011 were reorganized objectives set for each category of stakeholders. In this CSR and reported in conformity to core subjects of ISO26000. Process to set 2011 objectives and Summary of major activities Core subjects Objectives Major activities ・Enhancing ・Established new management system in which functions of Organizational governance systems supervising and executing operations are separated. governance ・Reconsidering the business continuity ・In addition to the annual review of our BCP, we moreover reviewed it in response to the plan (added during the fiscal year) occurrence of the Great East Japan Earthquake in March 2011 ・Certified in the Next Generation Support Act Phase 3 Action Plan, and formulated the Phase 4 Action Plan ・Establishing good working Introduced a preferential treatment system for transferred employees Human rights/ environments Introduced a telecommuting system Labor practices ・Using diverse human ・Introduced a new system with achievements of the subcommittee of Diverse Human resources Resource Promotion Committee The environment See p.26 Fair operating practices ・Promoting CSR procurement ・Decided to introduce certified palm oil ・Reinforcing interactive communication ・Started to provide toll-free consulting service Consumer issues ・Enhancing eco-friendly products ・Increased the rate of products meeting Lion’s Eco Standard (66% of all items, 82% of net sales) ・Promoting dental health ・Increased number of schools participating online in Mass Tooth Brushing Exercise for School Community activities Children (22,000 participants from 315 schools in four countries: 220% increase year-on-year) Involvement and ・Implemented the “2011 Competition of Ideas for Using Rainwater” for junior high and Development ・Promoting water resource elementary schools to facilitate the use of rainwater conservation activities ・Donated rainwater storage tanks to public kindergartens and elementary schools in Osaka 08 CSR Report 2012 Foundation for Business Lion and CSR Company Motto Lion Corporation positions “Fulfilling a Spirit of Love” as fundamental to its management, and thus contributes to the enrichment of the happiness and lives of people. Management Philosophy 1 We bring together the power of our personnel, the power of our technology and the power of our marketing, as we provide superior products that are helpful in the daily lives of people. 2 We respect the “Spirit of Tenacity and Creativity” that we have maintained since our founding, as we continue developing our business. 3 We deeply appreciate all those who extend their valuable support to us, as we prosper together through sincerity and mutual trust. Lion Group Charter for Corporate Behavior (Established on January 1, 2003 Revised on January 1, 2008) We, Lion Group, shall, in addition to being economic entities designated to pursue profits through fair competition, keep ourselves as social entity which must make a contribution to society at large. We shall respect human rights and conduct ourselves with initiative in a socially responsible manner toward the creation of a sustainable society, observing both the spirit as well as the letter of all the laws and international rules without harming the public interests both in Japan and abroad in accordance with the following 10 principles. 1. Principal Mission 6. Contribution to the society 2. Compliance with Public Rules 7. Confront Antisocial Activities 3. Disclosure 8. Contribution in Foreign Countries 4. Environmental Issues 9. Practice of Corporate Ethics 5. Promotion of Working Environment 10. Resolution of Problems CSR Report 2012 09 Management Vision Marking the 120th anniversary of the commencement the vision, with an eye to continue being a company of Lion’s business activities in 2011, we formulated a which contributes to peoples’ happiness and new management vision toward 2020 and a Mediumimprovement in their lives by responding to social term Management Plan entitled “V-1 Plan” to realize changes. New Management Vision, Vision 2020 To realize three visions, we implement four strategies. However, fulfilling tomorrow; to promote these strategies, the following three innovations are 2) Green Innovation, in order to develop innovative technologies necessary: toward the “realization of sustainable society”; and 1) Life Innovation, in order to enlighten people about how 3) Knowledge Innovation, in order to switch to a corporate to approach different stages of life and achieve comfortable culture in which people can learn through challenges and lifestyles, by helping them today to the fullest to arrive at a experiences. Vision 2020 The Ideal Lion Corporation in Fiscal 2020 [Management Vision] (Three Difining Characteristics) Be a company that creates value for lifestyle and A company that creates value for lifestyle 1. spiritual fulfillment and spiritual fulfillment long into the Be a company that is advanced in the area of future by consistently safeguarding, 2. environmental responsiveness health, comfort and the environment for Be a company that continues to take on challenges, 3. create and learn people each and every day Life Innovation [Four Strategies] Basic Strategies for the “Vision 2020” Period Green Innovation Create value that contributes to Qualitative Growth of Create value that people’s health, lifestyles 1. Domestic Businesses Cultivate Leading Brands contributes to the realization of and lives Quantitative Expansion of a sustainable society ２. Overseas Businesses Establish Business Leadership in Asia Development of Develop Direct & ３. New Business Value Service Business Models Enhancement of Organizational Invigorate in-house Organizations and 4. Learning Capabilities Develop Capable Human Resources Health Comfort Environment [Business Fields] [Three Types of Innovations] Knowledge Innovation Create capable organizations Innovations that Underpins that generate new value Strategy Implementation Medium-term Management Plan “V-1 Plan” As an initial action plan toward the achievement of “Vision consolidated business performance in 2014 are as follows: 2020” covering three years from 2012 to 2014, the MediumNet sales at ¥365 billion (average growth rate for three years term Management Plan “V-1 Plan” was formulated. According at 3.7%); Operating income at ¥20 billion (up ¥8.9 billion to the V-1 Plan with a theme of “Launching initiatives aimed from 2011); Operating margin at 5.5% (up 2.1 points from at achieving the management vision”, we have started 2011); Ordinary income at ¥21 billion (up ¥8.9 billion from and have accelerated specific measures for four strategies 2011); and Net income at ¥11.5 billion (up ¥7.5 billion from aiming at steady improvement in profitability. The targets of 2011). 10 CSR Report 2012 Business activities Lion and CSR Business activities supporting clean, healthy, comfortable educational activities. Celebrating the 120th anniversary and sustainable life are the basis of Lion’s corporate social of its founding in 2011, a new corporate message was responsibility. Since its foundation, Lion has long been formulated. Under the slogan of “life. love. Lion”, we a culture bearer for oral health and cleanliness, making will conduct business activities for both physical and proposals for making good habits through provision mental health and comfort, aiming to be a company of useful products for living, as well as promotion and which creates a valuable future. Oral Hygiene Business Oral hygiene is Lion’s core area of business. Over the years, we will strive to make proposals based on new values, we have developed many dentifrices with new functions focusing on relationship between oral hygiene and systemic in accordance with changes in people’s living habits illness which has been revealed in recent years. Meanwhile, throughout the eras, and have disseminated the correct in Asia, we will promote awareness and education of oral Completion of the Odawara Plant knowledge about tooth and oral hygiene. For the future, health, aiming at No.1 in the oral care business field. Clinica Functions added in response to Clinic Lion Dental people’s for Childrenneeds, (for prevention of cavity) as well as Awareness and Education of oral health Tooth brush and toothpaste donations to Asian countries Completion of the Dentor Odawara(for Plant prevention of pyorrhea) Lion Toothpowder A supplement picture book that Clinica Charity coupons printed on the back comesLion Dental with the Clinic product Children for (This is the (for prevention of cavity) The Dentor Systema series of the packet(the root of Lion’s social root of educational activities about White & White (for prevention of periodontal disease) action program) oral health for children) (Development of laminated tubes) Tooth brush and toothpaste donations to Asian countries Founding (1896~) Growth (1913~) Mass Production (1960~)Dentor Expansion (1970~) (for prevention of pyorrhea) Future Promoting oral health/ Starting educational activities Expanding the market, and Responding to diversifying oral From oral health to systemic health Lion Toothpowder The root of social action toAmake tooth brushing supplement habits picture book that developing world-class health issues with more scientific From Japan to other Asian programs Charity coupons printed on the back for children comes with the product (This is the products research The countries Dentor Systema series of the packet(the root of Lion’s social root of educational activities about White & White (for prevention of periodontal disease) action program) oral health for children) (Development of laminated tubes) Founding (1896~) Growth (1913~) Mass Production (1960~) Expansion (1970~) Future Promoting oral health/ Starting educational activities Expanding the market, and Responding to diversifying oral From oral health to systemic health The root of social action to make tooth brushing habits developing world-class health issues with more scientific From Japan to other Asian programs for children products research countries Culture of Cleanliness and Environmentally-friendly Business Through supplying many kinds of detergent, including development, we are currently tackling global environmental laundry detergents and soaps, Lion have helped instill a issues including those relating to water, thus we will make culture of cleanliness in society from the days when notions further efforts for establishing a sustainable society. about hygiene were weak until the present day. In product KireiKirei KireiKirei Medicated Liquid Hand soap Medicated Foaming Hand Soap Education of cleanliness and measures for the global environment The ”Beat” brand laundry detergent sold in Korea KireiKirei KireiKirei Medicated Liquid Hand soap Medicated Foaming Hand Soap Plant-Derived Lion Laundry Soap (Japan’s first plant-derived soap) Dash Spark Lipon F (earned the top recommendation of The ”Beat” brand laundry detergent the Japan Food Hygiene Association) sold in Korea Lipon (Japan’s first fatty alcohol-based synthetic detergent) Plant-Derived Lion Laundry Soap Shokubutsu-Monogatari Manual first (Japan’son plant-derived standard soap) procedures home laundry Dash Murin TOP (Plant Story) Educational activities to make TOP NANOX (Education on laundry procedures) Spark hand washing a habit Lipon F Early Notions Hygiene Reform (earned the Response top recommendation of to Water Response to Petroleum Food Poisoning Cases Raise Water Resources and For the Japan Food Hygiene Association) About Hygiene in Post-war Japan Environment Issues Resources Issues and Resource Needs for Disinfectants Water Use Reductions the (1891 ~ 1940s) (1950s) Lipon (1960s ~ 1980s) (Japan’s first fatty alcohol-based Conservation (1990s) (1990s ~ 2000s) Combating Odors (2010s) future synthetic detergent) Promoted awareness Contributed to Responded to various Amid an increase in Launched medicated Released Establishing Shokubutsu-Monogatari aboutonwashing Manual with standard home eradication laundry procedures of water environment issues Murin TOP awareness (Plant reducing soaps ofStory) Educational activities to make“TOPTOP NANOX” NANOX sustainable society (Education on laundry procedures) hand washing a habit detergent parasites with a which occurred as the use use of fossil resources, Developed Contributing to a Early Notions Hygiene neutral Reformfor of Response detergent to Water synthetic detergents Response expanding to Petroleum Food Poisoningactivities educational Cases Raise Water Resources and clean Forlifestyle in Asia About Hygiene in Post-war both dishes and popular Issues Environment Japan became Resources Issues and plant-derived Resource for products children Needs for Disinfectants Water Use Reductions the (1891 ~ 1940s) vegetables (1950s) (1960s ~ 1980s) Conservation (1990s) (1990s ~ 2000s) Combating Odors (2010s) future Promoted awareness Contributed to Responded to various Amid an increase in Launched medicated Released Establishing CSR Report 2012 11 about washing with eradication of water environment issues awareness of reducing soaps “TOP NANOX” sustainable society detergent parasites with a which occurred as the use use of fossil resources, Developed Contributing to a neutral detergent for of synthetic detergents expanding educational activities clean lifestyle in Asia Overview of Lion’s CSR Activities Lion has been committed to achieving the Company’s The various activities we have conducted are founding spirit of working for the benefit of people and summarized as the overview of Lion’s CSR activities, in society through providing various products. We have which “Major Activities” and “Primary Opportunities conducted activities putting emphasis on stakeholders at to Dialogue with Stakeholders” are classified by stages the forefront at each stage, from the frontiers of research such as ‘procurement of raw materials’, ‘major initiatives and development to the final product and disposal. undertaken by Lion’, ‘use by consumers’ and ‘society & Procurement of Major initiatives raw materials undertaken by Lion Reviewing business plans Major Activities Establishing good working environments Using diverse human resources Promoting CSR procurement Enhancing interactive Primary Opportunities Business partners: Observations of Employees: Labor-management Business partners: Lion-kai raw material supplier plants→p.35 meeting →p.19 General Meeting →p.35 to Dialogue with Stakeholders Shareholders/Investors: Interaction with directors at ordinary Promoting Communication with Stakeholders Lion views dialogue with stakeholders as a valuable Items that were highly appreciated by both customers opportunity to contrast corporate direction against and employees are as follows: “Prevention of the needs of society, as well as to confirm we have a global warming” including the reduction of CO2 sense of balance as a good corporate citizen. Opinion emissions through business activities and products; exchange takes numerous forms. “Enhancing customer support” as a tool of interactive Lion will make efforts for reflecting opinions of communication with consumers; and “Dental health stakeholders in its CSR activities. activities” for various generations. It was also found that customers required CSR information through the See the right page website easier than through CSR Reports. Materiality Analysis The “Mass Tooth Brushing Exercise for School The dialogue we held with our employees in 2011 Children” activity, one of Lion’s historical educational was the same as that held with customers in 2010. activities for oral health, has sufficiently penetrated in Analysing the results of these two identical surveys, employees. Meanwhile, as it seemed that customers one for our customers and the other for employees, were not as aware of this activity, to aim for further notable differences between them were not found. penetration we will step up our efforts to relay such In addition, there were no items of which customers information through means such as the Internet. highly appreciated but employees ranked low. 12 CSR Report 2012 Lion and CSR environment’. promoting activities for oral health. In each stage, Major activities include: promoting CSR procurement communication with stakeholders is promoted through in cooperation with business partners; establishing opportunities such as shareholders meetings, laborgood working environments and using diverse human management meetings, customer support or plant tours. resources; enhancing interactive communication with We will promote CSR activities in each stage of business customer support; and, in relation to Society/Environment, activities. Use by consumers Society/Environment Promoting activities concerning oral health Promoting water resource conservation activities communication Reducing CO 2 emissions Expanding environmentally-friendly products Customers: Customer support→p.38 Local communities: Plant tour→p.45 Environment: Participating in environmental events & Environment-related dialogue with communities→p.29 general meeting of shareholders & Participating in IR events→p.17 Analysis of materiality survey (Comparison between evaluations by customers and employees) 65 Customers 107 Employees Target (Readers of Lion’s mail (management level + magazine) representatives of labor Issuance of Prevention Dental CSR Report of global health union) warming activities Low Evaluation by employees High Customer Mass Tooth Brushing Date of support Exercise for School Children From November 29 to December 4, 2010 implementation December 7, 2011 Information disclosure through the website Participation in Rank Lion’s activities concerning the environmental events Contents of following three themes. CSR communication survey Environmental conservation activities Oral health Supporting cultural and sports projects Low Evaluation by customers High CSR Report 2012 13 Response to ISO26000 Lion started issuing the CSR Report from 2005, and corruption. holding stakeholder dialogues from 2008. Since 2009, In 2011, with ISO26000, the international standards we have participated in the United Nations Global for social responsibility, we started enhancing our CSR Compact, a global framework to realize sustainable management by objectively assessing our CSR activities growth, working on achievement of the ten principles in cooperation with a third-party organization. including human rights, labor, environment and antiFlow of response 1 2 3 4 5 Confirmation/ Importance Hearing for Setting goals Operation evaluation of evaluation of group in the our response each item companies entire Group ISO26000 Seven core subjects and corresponding pages Core Subjects Corresponding pages ISO26000 is an international standard issued in November 2010 by the International Organization Organizational governance p.16 for Standardization, which serves as a guideline for social responsibility for companies and other Human rights p.18 organizations. ISO26000 includes the principles of social responsibility and a guideline to best practices to Labor practices p.19 fulfill social responsibility in organizations. Seven core subjects which organizations should address have been The environment p.24 set: organizational governance, human rights, labor practices, the environment, fair operating practices, Fair operating practices p.34 consumer issues, as well as community involvement Consumer issues p.36 and development. For each core subject, the issues and the related actions and expectations are indicated. Community involvement and development p.42 Past activities According to “related actions and expectations” Although these are presently under examination, indicated for each core subject in ISO26000, we have promoting Group-wide CSR activities, and encouraging made efforts for understanding the current status of supply chains and other business partners to make the entire Group and identifying problems by taking such efforts are expected to be our issues. stock of Lion’s activities of each Group company. 14 CSR Report 2012 B案 1 Lion and CSR Confirmation and evaluation of our response Our response to each item of ISO26000 was confirmed by the CSR Promotion Department, the Personnel Department, the Corporate Planning Department and the International Division. In order to receive an objective evaluation about our actual status, we explained the details of our activities for each item to a third-party organization, and received advice. In addition to being evaluating regarding whether or not we completed taking the necessary measures, also confirmed and evaluated Explaining our activities to the third-party organization was whether we had policies and management systems, as well as the status of measures taken throughout the entire Group. 2 Evaluating the importance of each item Together with the evaluation and confirmation of the responses, the importance of each item was evaluated on the basis on global trends in CSR as well as the Group’s business. 3 Holding hearings for group companies Confirmation hearings for group companies are held with regard to items considered to highly important by relevant divisions of the parent company. After we complete the hearings for domestic affiliates, we plan to hold hearings for overseas affiliates. Hearing for group companies 4 5 Setting goals, Operation in the entire Group After understanding the actual situation of the entire Group, we clarify the important issues that we should tackle within the Group. We then will provide further management with clear objectives with the aim of improving the level of our CSR activities. CSR Report 2012 15 Organizational Governance Strengthening our activities which are central to our CSR management in order to earn the trust of society Lion Headquarters January 2012, we have enhanced our governance Basic Approach systems, separating supervision and execution of Lion’s top priorities for corporate governance are management. increasing management transparency, improving the Supervision and monitoring of management was efficiency of supervision and decision making, and enhanced with the installation of four independent ensuring compliance. By strengthening and improving directors (two external board directors and two external its corporate governance system, Lion aims to enhance auditors) who satisfy the criteria as independent officer, its corporate value. as dictated by the Tokyo Stock Exchange, as well as through regular meetings held between the president and all external directors to exchange information. Corporate Governance System Furthermore, a Management Evaluation Committee Lion has adopted a system of executive officers in was set up in October 2003 to ensure that evaluations order to strengthen managerial decision-making and and opinions by outside experts are reflected in executive functions. Supervision of management is management. conducted through a corporate auditor system. Since Model of Corporate Governance System Shareholders Meeting Senior Executive Board of Directors Compensation Advisory Management Evaluation Corporate auditors Reporting Committee Proposals (Supervision of management) Auditing (Legality audit) Monitoring Basic policies for Decisions on execution of mediumto long-term important business matters (Operational audit) Auditing management plans and Supervision of directors Opinions other major corporate Reporting executive performance and advice strategies Supervision of executive ofﬁcers on legal Opinions and advice on legal compliance and compliance management policy Reporting Delegation Reporting Auditing Accounting auditors Committee Committee Recommendations on director compensation (Internal controls Auditing Office Environmental Action relating to Executive Committee financial reports) Promotion Committee Reporting (Execution of operations) (Legality, validity, CS/PL Committee and efficiency audits; compliDepartments (Performance of operations) ance progress Disaster Prevention Meeting (Business, manufacturing, R&D divisions, and functional departments) audits) Pursue customers satisfaction Ensure fair trade Build trust relationships Promote social action with shareholders and investors programs Auditing Create fair and comfortable Protect personal information working environments Strengthening of legal compliance and ethics Corporate Ethics Committee Lion Group Charter for Corporate Behavior; Behavioral Guidelines 16 CSR Report 2012 Risk Management Enhancement of Information Disclosure Lion is building up a management framework for Relationship with Shareholders dealing with all the major risks that could occur in its business. Deliberation focuses on issues with An annual general meeting of shareholders is held each year a large impact on management, particularly the at the end of March at the Kokugikan (Ryogoku, Tokyo). lowering of risks resulting from accidents or disasters, Attendance at the 2012 meeting was 1,755 people, hitting a the prevention of product related problems, and record high. Many questions were asked by shareholders during establishment of initial response plans. the meeting, and afterwards they were given the opportunity When the Great East Japan Earthquake struck in to meet with directors and view a display of new products to Organizational promote greater understanding of the Company. Governance March 2011, some plant facilities which were damaged smoothly recovered in general, and product supply was Close communication with shareholders is also advanced quickly resumed. through the Lion Letter and reports to shareholders containing Triggered by the disaster, the business continuity plan information on earnings, new products and other matters, was enhanced with the review of existing measures, which are sent out in September and March respectively. such as seismic strengthening of office buildings and Information Other corporate investors 18.00% plants, alternative arrangements for execution of Concerning Shares Foreign investors 6.38% headquarter functions, and backup production at other (as of December 31, 2011) Securities firms 0.13% plants in times of disaster. Number of Financial institutions Individuals, Other (including treasury stock) shares 35.59% 39.90% Number of Individuals, Other (including treasury stock) shareholders 98.41% Securities firm 0.08% Foreign investors 0.39% Room of the Other corporate investors 0.98% laboratory reinforced against earthquakes Financial institutions 0.14% Relationship with Investors Establishment of Lion discloses information through Internet and conducts Internal Control Systems various IR events including earnings briefings to ensure that Systems and provisions have been put in place to ensure the corporate information is communicated in a precise, fair and appropriateness of Lion Group operations in accordance with timely manner to investors in Japan and overseas. In 2011, 14 Japan’s Companies Act and the Ordinance for Enforcement of the Company introductions for individual investors were held across Companies Act*. Japan, attended by 1,600 investors. The opinions received at With regard to systems for evaluating and auditing internal control the Company introductions have been reflected in our business over financial reporting, as prescribed in Japan’s Financial Instruments activities through the feedback to our directors and employees. and Exchange Act, Lion and the Lion Group have been establishing controls at the company-wide and business-process levels since July 2006. In December 2008, the Board of Directors passed a resolution on basic policy concerning internal control over financial reporting. Evaluations of internal control effectiveness are carried out by the Auditing Office, which reports findings to the president and corporate auditors, as well as on a regular basis to the Board of Directors. Areas requiring improvement are communicated to concerned divisions and the progress of improvements is verified. Explanation about the Company at an exhibition booth at Company In 2011, Lion’s internal control over financial reporting was introductions for individual investors deemed effective. A report on internal controls was submitted to the Prime Minister in March 2012 together with the Company’s securities report. Lion is selected for the FTSE4 Good Index *Basic policy of Internal Control Systems Series, a global indicator for socially URL http://www.lion.co.jp/ja/invest/corporate/system/ responsible investment. CSR Report 2012 17 Human Rights Respecting Human Rights of All People Involved in Lion Basic Approach contact information is available on the Company’s website. In 2011, there were seven instances of consultation or Lion has stipulated “Respect for Human Rights” in the reporting, but no instances of grave misconduct were Lion Group Charter for Corporate Behavior. Moreover, the found. Behavioral Guidelines refers to human rights of suppliers. *Heart Hotline URL http://www.lion.co.jp/ja/company/about/hotline.htm In 2009, we declared our intention to support the ten principles of the United Nations Global Compact to clarify Heart Hotline – Consultations and Notifications (2011) our attitude conscious about human rights. Other Power harassment behavior 1 case 2 cases Frameworks to Ensure Respect for Human Rights Any problems related to human rights such as child labor, Total cases forced or compulsory labor, or racial discrimination is 7 cases confirmed during the internal audit. If such problems have occurred, we work to understand the facts and confirm whether our framework to deal with these problems is Accounting/asset Personnel/labor management issues management issues functioning. 3 cases 1 case In addition, we have a system in place to confirm the facts and deal with them through a reporting system which is also available to our business partners. The System of “Heart Hotline” With questionnaires for CSR procurement, we have checked Consulter/Informer (employees within Lion Group or business partners) whether our business partners have policies for respect for human rights and elimination of discrimination, and the Consultations and Feedback Consultations and Feedback Notifications Notifications extent to which they are conscious about human rights. If necessary, we would require them to improve the situation. Report contents of consultation/ notification For related information, see p.34 Internal Contact Seeking solutions / Resolving problems (general manager specialized in External Contact corporate ethics) (lawyer) Report results of investigation and Contact for Consultation and countermeasures Internal Reporting Reporting Instruction An internal reporting system, the AL (All Lion) Heart Chairman of the Board of Hotline*, has been set up as point of contact for employee Corporate Ethics Committee Reporting Directors consultation for instances of non-compliance they have discovered and for which cannot or should not report the violations through normal channels. A pamphlet The Corporate Ethics Committee distributed to all employees, including temporary employees, informs them about the system and the rules Set up as needed for use, such as instructions for making contact and prohibition of unfair treatment of employees using the The Ethics Evaluation Committee system. Business partners can also use the hotline, and (consisting of external experts) 18 CSR Report 2012 Labor Practices Creating a Bright and Dynamic Workplace Diverse Human Resource Promotion Committee (Female Employees’ Subcommittee) Basic Approach Human Resource Diversity Having valued Lion’s founder’s idea of “Employees are Lion has made efforts for promoting human resource diversity in light of major changes in the composition of the workforce Human Rights partners in the Company”, Lion respects the individuality and personality of all employees and helps them to hone and the need to respond swiftly to changes in the business their skills and abilities and stay healthy in body and mind. environment. The Diverse Human Resource Promotion Committee was set Fair Treatment of Employees up in 2010, which plans and formulates personnel measures for Aiming to make working for the Company rewarding for all promoting the active participation of diverse human resources. employees, a framework is in place to increase the understanding Labor Practices Employee Motivation Consultation Center and motivation of each employee through systems of management by objective and self-assessment, as well as The Employee Motivation Consultation Center was feedback from regular evaluations and interviews by superiors. established in February 2011 to help employees develop a positive approach to their careers. Promoting Amiable Labor-Management Relations The center fields telephone inquiries from Lion Operating under a union shop agreement, Lion has employees (including employees dispatched to endeavored to build upon amiable labor-management affiliated companies) and temporary employees, and relations, in which employees and management are provides advice and information as required. proactively conducting activities such as reporting on Revision of Re-hiring System of Employees upon Retirement business conditions and exchange of opinions about working environments at labor-management meetings. In 2006, Lion began re-hiring employees who reached the mandatory retirement age. With an eye to increasing motivation Employees Data (non-consolidated) of both re-hired and current employees, the criteria was revised in 2009 2010 2011 April 2012 to improve the working environment in order to allow Male 1,883 1,873 1,842 the re-hired employees to work in conditions similar to full-time Regular employees Female 566 583 597 Male 40 49 47 employees, such as re-hiring all applicants, changing duties during New employees Female 31 25 23 the contract period, and awarding performance-based bonuses. Number of people 125 147 142 Re-hired retirees % 4.9 5.6 5.8 Employing People with Disabilities Temporary employees（Number of people） 264 255 289 Female employees ratio（%） 23.1 23.7 24.5 Lion wants employees to be able to fully apply their talent Number of people 32 34 37 regardless of disability. Not only do the immediate Female managers % 4.8 5.1 5.5 superiors of disabled employees provide care in the Number of people 48 44 43 Disabled employees form of consultation, we also have an established % 2.0 1.8 1.8 Male 5 3 4 mentality of support at Lion to which everyone in the Childcare leave users Female 38 35 26 workplace subscribes. Male 0 0 0 Reduced hours for childcare Female 40 48 55 Improvement of the System for Re-hiring Former Employees Average overtime per month (hours) 10.3 9.9 11.2 Annual paid leave used (%) 48.6 51.9 54.1 Lion has introduced a scheme to re-hire former Departures with in three Number of people 6 5 1 employees, aiming to allow them to be active again years of entering Company % 3.0 2.6 0.5 using their experience based on their career, lifestyle * “New employees” includes new employees hired mid-year. and expertise gained at Lion. * Data as of December 31 of every year CSR Report 2012 19 Labor Practices Promoting Work-Life Balance Next Generation Support Act Lion strives to build an environment where employees Phase 4 Action Plan Period: April 2011 to February 2015 can work dynamically and deliver results, whilst placing “Kurumin” logo recognizing value on balance between work life and private life. Goals: support for the next generation 1 Have seventeen or more male employees take childcare leave during the action plan period. Support for Childcare and Nursing Care →Three male employees took childcare leave. Another employee of the sales division has taken the leave for Lion has proactively worked on reinforcement of measures for a year from March 2012. childcare and nursing care. As a result of childcare-related support 2 In 2011, raise the age of child applicable for”Exemption from overtime for enhancements and making the programs known to employees childcare” from”three years of age” to“under primary school age”. in line with an action plan based on the Act on Advancement →The new system was introduced in June 2011. of Measures to Support Raising Next-Generation Children, the 3 In 2011, Modify the unit of “Child sickness leave” to allow employees to take half-day leave. ratio of female employees taking childcare leave has been 100% →The new system was introduced in June 2011. in recent years. The number of male employees taking childcare 4 Within the period of the action plan, implement measures leave has also increased, even among varying job types. for supporting employees to strike a good balance between The action plan is formulated through joint deliberation by work and childcare from viewpoint of career development. →Scheduled to be implemented in 2012. labor and management, as well as consultation with employees 5 In 2011, introduce an overseas transfer support who are parents. Since April 2011, activities have been promoted system for couples both working for Lion. in accordance with Phase 4 action plans. →The system for domestic and overseas transfer was introduced in June 2011. Support for Childcare and Nursing Care 6 Within the period of the action plan, introduce a telecommuting system ・Paid leave from six weeks prior to birth to eight for employees meeting the requirements prescribed by the Company. Maternity leave weeks after birth →Starting tests in 2012. Birth Special leave *Next Generation Support Act Phase 4 Action Plan (childbirth by ・Two days paid leave (bonus leave) URL http://www.lion.co.jp/ja/csr/employee/work_life/ spouse) ・Up to 18 months leave until the child is three years old (paid leave for the first successive two weeks) Childcare leave ・Additional childcare leave for fathers after using Our Workplace : the Chiba Plant childcare leave within eight weeks of their child’s birth Reduced hours ・Up to two hours/day reduction in the workday Message from the Plant Manager to Employees Childcare for childcare until the child finishes first grade My goal is to have the people working at the Chiba Exemption ・Employees with a child under primary school age from overtime can be exempted from overtime work Plant wake up with the attitude of, “I’m gonna work ・Employees with children under primary school age hard today!” Of course, I know you cannot always may take paid child sickness leave by half-day units feel so good especially when you have hard work Child sickness (paid leave) leave waiting for you at the Plant. But, once you come to ・Five days / year for one child or ten days/year for two Masakatsu Iguchi or more children that are preschool age the workplace, wouldn’t it be a wonderful plant if all Plant Manager Nursing care employees felt a sense of fulfilment at the end of each day through working in leave and ・Up to 93 days available to nurse each child as necessary combining nursing care leave and supporting of each other? After all, we are all together “in the same boat“ so reduced hours reduced hours for nursing care for nursing care to speak. If we work together, respecting individual personalities and thoroughly Nursing Nursing care ・Five days/year for one child or ten days/year for two talking with each other about things which need to be discussed, we can leave or more children provided by day for nursing care all make the Chiba Plant a wonderful place to work. I will take leadership to Accumulated ・Use accumulated annual paid leave that has expired (up to 60 days) for nursing a close relative achieve the goal. But firstly, let’s all start by greeting each other with a smile. leave (nursing * Medical and volunteer leave are available in addition to of close relative) accumulated paid leave. *In addition to the above, a system enabling restriction of work hours for childcare Coming-of-Age Party or nursing care purposes has been introduced in accordance with the law. Chiba Plant holds a Coming-of-Age Party every year for employees who turn 20 years old, the age of legal adulthood in Japan. At the party held on Support for transfer of couples working for Lion January 12, 2012, strict yet heartfelt congratulatory speeches were delivered by older colleagues, photos of In April 2011, Lion set up systems to support households of couples both the new adults’ childhoods were working for Lion. When one partner is transferred in Japan or overseas, shown, and letters from their with prior registration the spouse can choose from the following three mothers were read out. In hope options: 1) Accompanying the transferred spouse while putting his or her that they will grow up to be From the left, Junpei Hanada (a helpful to support the Company, new adult), Kunihiko Fujita (an own career on hold; 2) leaving the Company to accompany the spouse all employees celebrated and older colleague), and Mizuki Nakai on the premise of being re-hired within five years; or 3) changing his or cheered for the new adults. (a new adult) her own work location to the place where the spouse was transferred. 20 CSR Report 2012 Safety and Disaster Prevention Initiatives Response to emergencies Based on the principle of “safety first”, Lion has established its unique Taking into account our emergency responses taken “Health, Safety and Disaster Prevention management system” for at the time of the Great East Japan Earthquake, we group companies including domestic affiliates, which added its own revised our manual for earthquake disasters after disaster prevention measures to the “Occupational Safety and Health enhancing response measures against earthquake in the Management System” of Japan’s Ministry of Health, Labour and metropolitan area and reviewing our product supply in Welfare. We set up a Disaster Prevention Meeting which consists of the event of a large scale earthquake. representatives from production, R&D, administrative as well as sales Moreover we revised our “Disaster prevention card,” divisions, where employees and managers strengthen and improve a handy reference card for all our employees which lists measures for safety and disaster prevention in cooperation. Through information and contacts in the event of a disaster. the meeting, company-wide policies, targets (zero serious accident and The 2011 annual joint drill consisted of setting up disasters), annual plans and achievements are managed and promoted. a disaster response task force in Osaka and quickly At each business location, the Health, Safety and Disaster Prevention restoring operations under the scenario of an earthquake Committee organized in accordance with laws, and mainly promoted in the metropolitan area affecting the Headquarters. activities such as resolving issues unique to each business location, Drills are also carried out on a regular basis and include and reflecting employees’ opinions. In addition, a chairperson of the safety confirmation drills, evacuation drills, disaster Disaster Prevention Meeting audits individual business facilities on a leadership drills, firefighting drills, and joint drills with regular basis. In 2011, there were no serious accident nor disasters. municipal firefighters. Number of Facility Accidents/Disasters Occupational Safety 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Labor Practices In 2011, while the number of accidents considerably decreased 0 0 0 0 0 from a year earlier, the number of lost time accidents increased from two to five. Recently, the number of accidents caused by Number of Work Accidents (excluding commuting accidents) carelessness and overconfidence, such as falling on steps, has 20 been increasing. In order to raise employees’ awareness of safety, 15 16 we will enhance our day-to-day efforts and share information 14 10 10 about the accidents that occurred at all business locations. 10 11 With the health, safety, and disaster prevention management 8 5 7 7 system established, risks of new and changed operations are 2 0 assessed by managers of each business locations, in order to 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 （year） steadily facilitate elimination of hazardous factors. Lion Affiliated companies One of key activities for 2011 was review of risk items. Through continuous implementation of risk assessment, we will Work Accident Frequency Rate* in Production Division create safer working environments. 1.2 1.10 0.84 0.88 0.9 0.72 0.72 Safety of Facilities 0.6 0.74 0.71 0.67 Lion’s plants and production facilities of affiliated companies suffered 0.3 minimal damage from the Great East Japan Earthquake. 0.00 0.00 After the restoration of lifelines and traffic networks, we gradually 0 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 （year） rebuilt our production systems and resumed production activities. As Lion Chemical industry Lion’s main products are household articles, it was essential to quickly produce and supply those products. Aware of our responsibility to supply *Frequency rate: Number of people suffering lost time injuries / Total working hours such daily necessities, we worked quickly to complete restoration work (unit: million hours) and could resume production about a month after the disaster. For labor accident severity rate of production division, see the website below: At that time, our systematic maintenance which centers on essential URL http://www.lion.co.jp/ja/csr/employee/prevention/ equipment and management of alternative components, which had Hours without Accident at End of 2011 (Unit: ten thousand hours) always been routinely implemented, proved effective. Research Division Production Division We will further steadily work on the safety of our facilities, systematically promoting facility maintenance from a long-term viewpoint Hirai Honjo Odawara Chiba Odawara Osaka Akashi 751 70 87 325 339 263 119 by ensuring implementation of inspections and fixing of facilities. CSR Report 2012 21 Labor Practices Human Resource Development Corporate Culture of Challenges, Create and Learn Global Human Resource Development Innovation has sustained Lion’s business activities ever In addition to the “Overseas retail and distribution since the Company’s founding, and it is individual sector study tour” for sales personnel at managerial level employee with the ability to practice “challenges,” introduced in 2010, we newly introduced a “global human “create,” and “learn” who generate the innovation resource enhancement program” for young and midrequired to resolve business and technical issues. Lion career employees in 2011. Thirty employees selected will foster a corporate culture by developing human from among applicants publicly solicited participated in resources with the individual resolve to overcome the program. The purpose of this program is to foster problems and create new value. global personnel in charge of international business in a stable manner and facilitate the globalization of business. Participants, who may apply regardless of job type, Education and Training Programs continuously attend the program for about seven Lion conducts rank-based and specialized job-based months. training for all employees, offering programs according Domestic training programs are composed of basic to grade and job field. knowledge about Lion’s business and overseas general Aiming at educating human resources from new education with the aim of fostering business viewpoints. employees to managers and raising their awareness Meanwhile, in overseas programs, participants visit a with an eye to global development, the rank-based foreign country for a week to directly learn about foreign training promotes understanding of international culture, and then experience practical work at overseas business development and enhances their language affiliated companies for a month. At the same time, skills. by going to language schools etc., participants master Follow-up programs were also implemented for language skills to leverage their specialty as well as participants of new employee and mid-career rankcommunication abilities to understand different cultures. based training programs to ensure content was adequately learned and to support further growth. Standard Training Programs Regular employees Management Rank-based New employee training Management training Overseas retail and distribution training Mid-career training sector study tour Sales Division training Self-Development Programs Administrative/Planning Division training Action learning training in which participants engage in Specialized jobGlobal human based training practical work at overseas affiliates for a month, after Global human resource training Research/Technical Division training resource having undertaken training in Japan beforehand to improve enhancement Production Division training understanding of overseas general culture, expertise program necessary for business, as well as English proficiency. Presentations An opportunity for employees to present knowledge or Frameworks for Developing Tenacity at overseas technology developed through work or learning at overseas conferences symposiums as a way to nurture skills for global business. Lion has systems in place to support employees by allowing them to fully develop their tenacity and creative potential. Overseas retail Employees visit Western and Asian nations with advanced distribution and retail sectors to gain firsthand, real-time Besides standard training programs, highly motivated and distribution insight into the impact of globalization on distribution sector study tour employees have additional opportunities for skills frameworks, thus helping to broaden their outlooks. development, including elective training and selfStudy Employees study at a business school to enhance job development programs. The diverse line-up of selfDomestic study capability and business management skills. development programs, in particular, helps employees enhance their abilities. Research and Joint research Employee-initiated research and study relating to their work. study group To be more specific, we have the Lion Challenge Cup, an opportunity for employees to present self-initiated group Lion Challenge An annual in-house contest whereby teams present their Cup research to executives. research directly to Lion executives. We have also initiatives General education, for developing human resources capable of sustaining Distance Positive support for self-development in order to promote a business skills, overseas operations in this age of global business. learning qualifications dynamic corporate culture of challenges, create, and learn. 22 CSR Report 2012 Employee Health Management we confirmed that the establishment of good Having viewed employees’ good health as a management health habits while still foundation to support healthy corporate growth, Lion has young leads to prevention conducted detailed health support activities for each business of diseases later on, the location. Almost all employees have annual health checkups and seminar has been effective Soaking up forest air as part of individual post-check-up consultations (health guidance). Specific LIS 21 to raise our employees’ health check-ups and guidance have also been provided. In 2012, awareness of health. we reorganized the health management offices of each business Changes One Year After LIS21 Participation location into the Health Support Office, a unified organization Participants No. with changed lifestyles % throughout the nation which formulates the “Guideline for Health”. 2006 120 111 92.5 In accordance with the guidance, we will develop our health 2007 86 79 91.9 support activities using Lion’s own insights, while enhancing 2008 91 82 90.1 cooperation among nurses, industrial physicians and company staff. 2009 91 89 97.8 2010 96 87 90.6 Guideline for Health Dental Prophylaxis Program (ALOHA*) “Life. love” means valuing one’s entire life. We desire to be of help for people each and every day. This goal would be achieved foremost on the premise of “ Focusing on impacts of dental health and oral health on health”. systemic health, in cooperation with the Lion foundation The good health of our employees who are the Company’s partners is not for Dental Health, we have incorporated dental checkups only the foundation of happiness of our employees and their families, but also into the annual health checkups for all our employees Labor Practices the foundation of management which supports healthy corporate growth. since 2002 in order to improve oral health. Based on Management and employees will work together to conduct proactive initiatives data from the checkups, we revealed the relationship toward maintenance and promotion of good health, aiming to be a healthy and between metabolic syndrome and periodontal disease, vigorous company which can contribute to people each and every day. and published research papers on this subject. We will On the basis of this idea, we will conduct health management activities in enhance our activities to prevent employees from having compliance with the guidelines shown below as well as with various laws and periodontal disease and metabolic syndrome. regulations, while fully taking into account privacy protection. 1. Improve health management ability For related information, see p.43 *ALOHA While employees recognize their own responsibility for health All Lion Oral Health Activity management, the Company provides support for the improvement of individual employees’ health management skills through Mental Health Initiatives organizational and ongoing health management activities. 2. Create a comfortable working environment With our Mental Health Basic Policy established in 2004, Lion has The Company ensures the employees’ good health through the taken proactive measures for the mental health of our employees, creation of a comfortable working environment where they can aiming to create a working environment where each employee can work with ease and trust, and pays attention to employees’ health work with vitality. conditions so that they can perform their duties with vitality. For example, we implement an annual stress survey for all 3. Promote activities for the future employees every year, which is helpful for their self-care. Depending Making use of Lion’s features and insights, the Company on the results of the survey, detailed measures would be taken strategically promotes health management activities with an through reviewing individual conditions at post check-up personal eye towards the future, from oral health to systemic health. consultations with an industrial physician and nursing staff. Enacted January 2012 In 2011, e-learning programs were provided, including programs for all employees to be able to detect their own mental changes Age 35 Health Seminar (LIS21) at an early stage before they become serious, as well as programs for managerial staff to promote their understanding of their We have been holding the LIS21 (Lion life innovation responsibility and roles concerning the mental health of their seminar 21) overnight hands-on seminars every year employees. All eligible employees participated in the programs. for employees aged 35. We found that participants In-house consultations are undertaken by industrial physicians, of this seminar have a higher degree of awareness nursing staff, psychiatrists and clinical psychologists. A contract of lifestyle habits and that they were able to hold has also been entered into with an independent organization for back weight gain five years after the seminar. As providing telephone consultation and counseling for employees. CSR Report 2012 23 The Environment A Leading Company in Environmental Friendliness Promoting Sustainable Society Lion Forest in Yamanashi Basic Approach Environmental Management Structure Environmental initiatives are essential for a company like Lion providing Lion has established an Environmental Action Promotion Committee products for day-to-day living. Aiming to be a leading company in comprising members from production, administrative, sales, R&D as environmental friendliness, Lion has promoted Eco Lion Activities which well as headquarters staff divisions, in order to coordinate cooperation are Company-wide environmental conservation activities including the on environmental matters by all employees. The committee reviews following five core initiatives in accordance with the environmental Company-wide business activities from an environmental protection guidelines: 1) reducing greenhouse gas emissions; 2) effectively using perspective and takes steps to ensure legal compliance and setting of and recycling resources; 3) considering the environment from a productvoluntary standards and targets in addition to ascertaining progress. oriented perspective; 4) appropriately handling chemical substances; Environmental Management Structure and 5) fostering environmental awareness within the Lion Group. Executive Committee Our ongoing efforts in environmental protection will contribute to Environmental Action Promotion Committee the creation of a sustainable, low carbon and recycling-oriented society, Chairman : Director in charge and will help to promote coexistence with nature. Secretariat : CSR Promotion Department, Environmental Conservation Office Members of Committee : Environmental Guidelines Chiefs of production, administrative, sales, R&D and headquarters staff divisions Lion’s Environmental Guidelines adhere to the spirit of the Lion Group Charter for Corporate Behavior, which states: “We shall Company-wide Manager of environment management (Chief of Environmental Conservation Office) play a positive and active role in creating a Sustainable Society, harmonizing economic development and environmental protection.” Production Division Administrative / Sales R&D Division The Environmental Guidelines are a clear statement for the Manager of Division Manager of environment Manager of environment Affiliated Company to take initiative for Eco Lion activities and develop management environment management companies (General manager of management (General manager of eco-friendly products, to engage in business activities with due production management (General manager of corporate management department) general affair department) department) consideration to air and water environments as well as biodiversity, and to lower environmental impact throughout the supply chain. Each plant Each office Each laboratory Environmental Guidelines (4) Developing Environment-Friendly Products Continue aggressively with product development in tune with Lion’s own “Lion Lion will act voluntarily and proactively to reduce its environmental burden to the Eco Standards” in light of lifecycle assessment. global environment in all processes of business activities from the development of (5) Advancing Green Supply Chain Management products to the procurement of raw materials, production, distribution, sales, use by Construct a green supply chain with raw material suppliers, OEM partners and customers, as well as disposal, with due consideration to global warming prevention, retail outlets, and strive for environmental burden reduction throughout entire effective use and recycling of natural resources, as well as to contribution to the product lifecycles, from procurement to provision of products to customers. improvement of people’s health, natural ecosystems and biodiversity. (6) Coexistence with Nature (1) Aiming for a Sustainable Society Conduct business activities while taking into account biodiversity and air and Promote an environmental management system, and through ongoing water environments, and proactively address natural environment protection maintenance and improvement of that system, protect the global environment. activities. (2) Complying with Legal and Other Requirements (7) Enhancing Environmental Protection Activities Based on Uniform Comply with the system of legislation, regulations and arrangements pertaining to Understanding of the Guidelines with in the Lion Group environmental protection, and establish and implement voluntary standards Disseminate the Guidelines to all Lion employees, including those of its of conduct. affiliated companies, raise an awareness of environmental protection among them and bolster environmental management activities throughout the (3) Setting and Verifying Implementation of Environmental Objectives and Targets entire Lion Group. Correctly understand the environmental impact of corporate activity, and as far as technically and economically possible, establish objectives and targets (8) Promoting Disclosure of Information for improvement, while at the same time formulating, implementing Seek to maintain and promote communication with stakeholders involved and regularly verifying the status of implementation of an environmental in Lion’s businesses. These Environmental Guidelines are freely available to management program. anyone upon request. Revised April 1, 2010 24 CSR Report 2012 Environmental Management System Executive Environmental Audit The purpose of Lion Group’s environmental management system is The director of the board responsible for CSR, who chairs the to identify, evaluate and rectify adverse effects on the environment Environmental Action Promotion Committee, carries out executive associated with our business activities, products and services, and environmental audits covering plants of Lion and affiliated to facilitate ongoing improvements in our environmental protection companies on a regular basis together with safety audits. activities. Ongoing improvements will be achieved through implementation of the plan-do-check-act (PDCA) cycle in line with the Environmental Guidelines. Systems for environmental management and reporting activities have been enhanced with the aim of global environmental Executive safety and environmental audit responses. As a result, data of overseas affiliated companies which we obtained have been available on our website since 2010. Legal Compliance * Environmental Management System URL http://www.lion.co.jp/ja/csr/env/management/ Lion complies with all environmental laws, ordinances and other * Data on environmental burden of affiliated companies’ plants (overseas) regulations, and we ensure thorough management according to URL http://www.lion.co.jp/ja/csr/report/pdf/overseas.pdf our own independent standards. Waste treatment contractors must satisfy criteria stipulated Status of ISO 14001*1 Certification in waste management regulations in order to be selected by Lion acquired ISO 14001 group certification covering all its plants waste supervisors at each site. The premises of waste treatment in July 2001. Certification was reviewed and extended by the contractors are inspected on a regular basis to verify conformity to Japan Management Association Quality Assurance Registration the criteria. Center (JMAQA) at three-year intervals, in May 2010. Through In the past, we have used equipment containing polychlorinated a maintenance examination taken in 2011, it was verified that biphenyls (PCB). This equipment is stored securely in line with frameworks to maintain management system are properly operated, legal requirements and gradually disposed of through Japan conforming to requirements of the standard. Based on results of the Environmental Safety Corporation (JESCO). examination, continual improvements are made to management In 2010, a soil survey conducted after the closure of a research systems and environmental protection activities based on audit building at Hirai Office revealed specified hazardous substances The Environment results. Also in relation to plans of affiliated companies, Lion has such as lead and arsenic in concentrations exceeding limits obtained ISO14001 certifications, and operated environmental stipulated by the Soil Contamination Countermeasures Act. These management systems in compliance with ISO14001. findings were reported to the Tokyo Metropolitan Government. In *1 ISO 14001: May 2011, the above-mentioned land was designated as “Land A global standard governing voluntary environmental efforts by organizations subject to notification of changes of the land character”*2. We will continue to act appropriately in accordance with the law and in cooperation with the authorities. Wastewater is constantly managed to ensure that statutory limits on wastewater are observed. This involves improving the reliability of wastewater processing facilities, strengthening and ensuring management during processes, and conducting emergency drills. Adjustments are also being made to frameworks in line with revisions to related laws — namely, the Act on the Rational Use of Energy, Act on Promotion of Global Warming Countermeasures, ISO14001 Certificate of Registration Act on Confirmation, etc. of Release Amounts of Specific Chemical Substances in the Environment and Promotion of Improvements to Internal Environmental Audits the Management Thereof and Act on the Evaluation of Chemical Employees who are qualified as internal environmental Substances and Regulation of Their Manufacture, etc. auditors after undergoing appropriate training There were no infringements resulting in a fine or other penalty routinely implement internal environmental audits to during 2011. verify total conformity to ISO14001 requirements and *2 Land subject to notification of changes of the land character: conduct management reviews. Individual departments Of the categories of land which do not conform to the criteria provided take responsibility for rectifying any non-conformity for in the Soil Contamination Countermeasures Act (land for which and reporting improvements to a responsible general countermeasures are required, etc.), this is a category of land where it is not required to take measures for eliminating contamination as there is manager. no possibility of health damage. CSR Report 2012 25 The Environment Environmental Targets and Achievements In 2011 which was the second year of “the medium-term shutdown of plants due to the disaster and energy-saving measures. environmental plan for the three years” formulated in 2010, our While total waste generation decreased from a year earlier, the target plans to steadily carry out various measures were significantly of waste reduction could not be attained in 2011. This is because of affected by the Great East Japan Earthquake. the disposal of damaged products and addition of washing water for Our CO 2 emissions target was achieved with effects from both the damaged facilities in spite of a year-on-year decrease in wastewater. Environmental Targets and Achievements ◎：Attained ×：Unattained Target Achievements Related Category 2012 2011 Principal measures in 2011 Attainment level in 2011 pages Reviewed laundry detergent production Reduce energy-derived CO2 emissions ◎ efficiency from business activities by 30% or more Reduce 29% or more (35% reduction compared to p.32 (Outage due to the Great East Japan compared to 1990 1990) Earthquake) CO2 emissions Reduce specific energy consumption in Reduce by 1% or more × Increased the loading efficiency in reduction logistics by 1% or more on average each compared to the previous (0.7% increase compared to p.32 transportation year year the previous year) Reduce the CO2 emission rate at overseas Reduce by 1% or more Conserved energy by reviewing production ◎ production sites by 1% or more on average compared to the previous (1% reduction compared to the ― conditions each year year previous year) Turn more waste into valuable resource × Reduce total waste generation by 55％ or Reduce by 54% or more (Target unattained due to disposal of (53% reduction compared to p.30 more compared to 1990 damaged products) 1990) Waste reduction Attain“zero emissions” status groupDeployed Lion’s measures at affiliated — ― p.30 wide*1 companies Reduced in-process washing water × Effective Use of Reduce wastewater by 20% or more Reduce by 16% or more (Target unattained due to addition of (14% reduction compared to p.31 Water Resource compared to 2005 washing water for damaged facilities) 2005) Completed notification of managing ― Reduce total PRTR substance emissions by substances newly specified under revisions to Chemical — (43% reduction compared to p.30 45％ or more compared to 2005*2 the law Reduced by deliberating production substance 2005) conditions management Reduce volatile organic compound (VOC) ◎ Introduced VOC recovery systems and emissions by 75% or more compared to Reduce by 75% or more (78% reduction compared to ― improved product composition 2000 2000) Carry out environmental management Set short-term targets for Environmental Completed setting of targets ◎ ― according to the PDCA cycle overseas sites management structure Identify and perform accounting for enhancement — Responded to a soil survey ― p.25 environmental liabilities Promote activities for Made efforts for power conservation in Environmental Continue to promote Eco Lion summer awareness and biodiversity, a new policy of Conducted activities to protect marine turtles ◎ p.33 communication activities Challenge 25 Maintained biotope spaces *1 L ion defines“ zero emissions” as the achievement of a 99% or higher recycling rate for total waste generated. However, this does not include residues from recycling. *2 With substances specified by the law before revised, the target was set and its attainment level was calculated. Environmental Accounting to liquid for which facility costs are lower, and because depreciation cost decreased with removal of a part of Each year, we tabulate environmental protection costs, drying towers in Osaka Plant. environmental protection benefits, and economic benefits (actual benefits) associated with environmental protection activities of the Environmental Protection Benefits entire Lion Group based on Ministry of the Environment guidelines. Energy usage reduced by 12,000 tons on CO 2 basis due to The tabulation period is the same as the Company’s accounting year, impacts of the Great East Japan Earthquake and the subsequent January-December 2011. Company-wide power conservation measures. Industrial water usage decreased by 34,000m3 with efforts for reducing usage Environmental Protection Costs at production plants which usually consume a large amount In 2011, both investments and expenses decreased. of water, in addition to impacts of the disaster. Total waste This is because, among eco-friendly products, type of generation increased by 2000 tons with additional disposal of laundry detergents to be produced has been shifted products damaged by the disaster. 26 CSR Report 2012 Economic Benefits (Actual Benefits) Associated with Economic Benefits Environmental Protection Activities (million yen) Cost savings by resources saving includes revised Benefits Year-on-year reduction specifications of packages. Cost savings due to energy conservation -Savings on water and sewerage charge were thanks Cost savings due to resource efficiency 135 to use of rain water and water-saving efforts. Savings on water and sewerage charges 8 Savings on waste treatment expenses* -* Includes sales of items of value Environmental Accounting (2011) Environmental Protection Costs (million yen) Environmental Protection Benefits Related Year-on-year pages Category Principal activities Investments Expenses Category 2011 change NOx emissions (tons) 53 △7 Pollution prevention SOx emissions (tons) 25 10 Air pollution prevention 7 298 Particulate emissions (tons) p.30 5 △1 Water pollution prevention, etc. Total COD (tons) 11 1 Energy usage (t-CO 2) 93,125 △12,228 Global environmental protection Industrial water usage (m3) 879,037 △33,671 134 4,053 p.31-32 Energy conservation, etc. City water usage (m3) 419,749 △4,486 Business area Wastewater (m3) 703,158 △26,466 costs Total waste generation (tons) Final waste disposal (tons) 8,278 △154 Resource recycling 0 293 Recycling rate (%) 185 △17 p.30 Waste treatment, Recycling, etc. (recycled volume ÷ volume 97 2 consigned) Eco-friendly products Plant-based materials, biodegradable materials, compact Eco-friendly product 926 4,577 products, refill products, recycled paper use, recycled PET use, p.40-41 manufacturing facilities, etc. etc. Outsourcing fees incurred due to Upstream/ Japan’s Containers and Packaging Packaging materials used (tons) 62,896 △2,427 downstream ― 614 p.41 costs Recycling Act Waste (tons) 4,308 2,016 Waste treatment, etc. The Environment ISO 14001 renewal expenses, Administration p.24-25・ costs environmental education, publishing 0 620 29 of reports, exhibits, etc. Costs for developing eco-friendly R&D costs 110 1,433 p.4041 products, etc. Social activity Local environmental activities, costs 0 20 p.29 donations, etc. Environmental Tax imposed on pollution remediation 0 2 p.25 costs performance, etc. Lion Group total 1,177 11,910 Eco-Efficiency Lion calculates eco-efficiency according to the Eco-Efficiency and Environmental Impact Value following formula to evaluate the efficiency of (Compared to 2005) corporate activities in terms of environmental impact. (%) Environmental impact value (compared to 2005) Eco-efficiency 150 400 Efforts are then made to improve eco-efficiency. 356 399 318 370 375 Eco-efficiency based on LIME decreased in 2011 102％ 300 due to an increase in the environmental impact value 100 91％ 83％ 79％ 83％ resulting from disposal of products damaged by the 200 disaster. 50 100 Outcome of business activity (net sales) Eco-Efficiency ＝ 0 0 Environmental impact value (calculated using LIME) 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 （year） Eco-efficiency Environmental impact value * Environmental impact value: The environmental damage expressed in monetary terms calculated using a Japanese life cycle impact assessment * Environmental impact value is calculated using the LIME2 integrated method based on endpoint modeling — LIME. coefficient list (July 1, 2010 version). CSR Report 2012 27 The Environment Overview of Environmental Impact of Lion’s Business Activities INPUT OUTPUT Energy Emissions into atmosphere Total energy usage 51,530kL CO2 emissions 93,125tons (crude oil equivalent) （△5,461） （△12,228） Electricity 96,710million Wh Production 85,315tons （△6,999,000） activities （△11,140） Natural gas 10,432,000m 3 Non-production 7,810tons （△2,042,000） activities （△1,088） Other fuels 14,543kL NOx emissions 53tons (crude oil equivalent) （△1,292） （△7） SOx emissions 25tons （10） PRTR chemical 26tons substances （ 0） Materials Raw material 361,000tons （ 29,000） Emissions into water (Lion Group) PRTR chemical 81,000tons Wastewater 703,000m 3 substances （△16,000） （△27,000） PRTR chemical 0 tons substances （ 0） Water resources Waste Water used 1,299,000m 3 （△38,000） Total waste 8,278tons generation （△154） Tap water used 420,000m 3 （△4,000） Consigned for 6,421tons recycling （1,894） Industrial 879,000m 3 （△34,000） Final waste disposal 185tons water used （△17） PRTR chemical 262tons Figures in parentheses indicate change substances （△35） from previous year Logistics Logistics CO2 emissions 18,803tons （△1,404） Customers Products Net sales 327.5 billion yen （△3.6） Waste packaging 36,803tons （△2,276） 28 CSR Report 2012 Environmental Communication Regular Environmental Education and Communication Environmental Activities for Business Partners Environmental education is conducted on a regular We have set up a section for Lion’s CSR activities in a basis for all employees. magazine for members of Lion-Kai, and introduced our Education provided during 2011 included programs environmental initiatives to them. Also through “Lionfor new employees, employees in charge of waste Kai Fax News” issued twice a month, our environmental management, employees in charge of chemical activities are introduced in a timely manner. substance management, and internal environmental auditors. An additional ten employees took part in an internal environment auditor training seminar. In-house media were also used to increase employees’ knowledge and concern for the environment, for example by introducing environmental activities Magazine for Lion-kai members pursued by individual departments. Interaction with Communities and Organizations Lion participates in activities of the Japan Chemical Industry Association’s Responsible Care (RC) Committee, through which the chemicals industry strives for ongoing improvements to safety and environmental considerations throughout the life cycle of chemical substances, from development to disposal. Lion Chiba Plant participated in the 8th Chiba area Responsible Care dialogue meeting held in February 2011. Environment-related articles in the in-house newsletter Eco First Companies Association Activities The Environment Participation in Environment-Related Events The Eco First Companies Association*, an independent organization run by companies recognized by Japan’s Lion wants many people to know about its environmental Ministry of the Environment (MOE) as front-runners activities. At Eco-Products 2011, one of the Japan’s in environmental action, held a “Forest Ecotowaza largest environmental exhibitions, we introduced our (Eco Proverbs) Contest”supported by the MOE efforts for reducing environmental burdens through and Forestry Agency. Judged and supervised by the experimental products, and made presentation on Japanese Society of Paroemiology as well as the water environment conservation activities and initiatives winners of Eco First Companies Association Prizes for biodiversity. We also participated in environment(first prizes), the association member prizes and related exhibitions held in areas near our business other awards were selected from a large number of locations, including the Sumida Environment Fair 2011 submissions. Awards were presented at the venue of and the Ecomesse in Chiba 2011. Eco Products 2011. Furthermore, participating in the Eco Life Fair 2011 hosted by the MOE, we introduced initiatives of the Association to visitors, and encouraged them to take actions for power conservation. *Eco First Companies Association URL http://www.eco1st.jp/ Commendation ceremony for “Forest Lion’s exhibition booth at Eco-Products 2011 Ecotowaza (Eco Proverbs) Contest” CSR Report 2012 29 The Environment Pollution Prevention Total Waste Generation by Lion Group Production Activities Conscious about Air and Water Quality In 2011, the Lion Group reduced total waste generation Lion also implements voluntary initiatives for reducing from a year earlier to 8,278 tons, which is equal to emissions of chemical substances that cause air 47% of the 1990 level. However, 2011 target of a pollution, including nitrogen oxides (NOx), sulfur reduction to 46% or less of the 1990 level could not oxides (SOx), particulate matter, and volatile organic be achieved due to disposal of products damaged by compounds (VOC). We also strive to reduce COD with the Great East Japan Earthquake. We aim to reduce improvement in reliability of wastewater processing waste to 45% of the 1990 level by 2012 through facilities and periodical maintenance. renewed efforts to ensure thorough sorting of waste Data on management of chemical substances, and turn waste into valuable resources. including notifications in compliance with the PRTR system is summarized in site reports for each business Total Waste Generation by Lion Group location*, and available on Lion’s website. （tons） 20,000 17,646 *Site Report （100％） URL http://www.lion.co.jp/ja/csr/report/ 15,000 9,635 9,913 9,006 10,000 （56％） （51％） 8,111 8,432 8,278 Appropriately Handling Chemical Substances* （46％） （48％） （47％） 6,682 5,000 5,670 5,836 6,084 5,532 Chemical substances are indispensable for people 8,011 3,231 3,336 to lead comfortable and fulfilling lives. Failure to 2,275 2,348 2,746 0 1990 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011（year） properly manage chemicals, however, can result in Affiliated companies Lion accidents that put human health and ecosystems at enormous risk. In addition to compliance with related laws and regulations, Lion strives to ensure strict Final Waste Disposal by Lion Group management of chemical substances at all stages from product development through to use and disposal in In 2011, the Lion Group reduced final waste disposal accordance with our own independent standards. by 98% compared to the 1990 level. Accordingly, *Appropriately Handling Chemical Substances since 2007, we have continuously attained the URL http://www.lion.co.jp/ja/csr/env/chemicals/ target established by Keidanren (the Japan Business Lion’s Chemical Substance Management Federation), a reduction of 89% or more by 2015 compared to the 1990 level. 1 Product Development Lion plants also attained zero emissions status in 2002, and have maintained that status since then. Among affiliated companies, 5 of 6 production sites Safety verification and management of chemical have already achieved zero emissions. substances contained in raw materials We will now focus on attaining group-wide zero 2 Production emissions status. Final Waste Disposal by Lion Group (tons) 7,580 8,000 （100％） Measurement and reduction of chemical substance releases 7,000 6,000 3 Transportation 5,000 4,000 3,000 Keidanren Voluntary Action Plan 2015 Target Provision of safety information during 2,000 transportation 830 764 （11％） （10％） 291 202 185 1,000 （4％） （3％） （2％） 4 Use and Disposal 0 1990 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 (Year) Provision of information on safety and handling of chemical products 30 CSR Report 2012 Sustainable Use of Resources Switching from Petroleum to Botanical Resources Effective Use of Water Resources Methyl ester sulfonate (MES) and methyl ester Lion keeps a constant close watch on water usage and ethoxylate (MEE), unique surfactants developed by wastewater volume and works to reduce water usage Lion, are raw materials of detergents derived from through cyclic use and lower environmental impact. In reproducible plants, which can contribute to restriction 2011, taking measures for reducing usage of in-process of CO 2 emissions. washing water, we reduced total water usage from a After use, surfactants including detergents are year earlier to 86% of the 2005 level. However, the decomposed by microbes in the environment to target of reduction to 84% of the 2005 level or lower become CO 2 and Water. As plants grow up, absorbing could not be attained, with additional washing water CO2 in the atmosphere, when surfactants made from used for facilities damaged by the Great East Japan plant-based ingredients are decomposed, they do not Earthquake. Further efforts will be made to protect release any additional CO2 into the atmosphere (they water resources through process improvement and other are carbon neutral). We will work on use of plantmeasures. derived materials. Lion Group’s Water Usage, Wastewater Volume, and COD* Carbon Neutrality (1,000m3) Water usage/Wastewater COD (tons) 2,000 100 Light Energy CO 2 No increase in total CO 2 Photosynthesis 1,509 1,500 1,365 1,414 75 O2 1,320 1,337 1,299 1,000 50 820 757 750 690 730 703 27 500 21 25 17 Plant-based 12 10 11 ingredients 0 0 2005 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 (year) The Environment Released into air Water usage Wastewater COD * Chemical Oxygen Demand (COD): An indicator of water contamination measuring the amount of oxygen required to oxidize and break down organic substances in water. Product made from plant-based ingredients Biodegradation Green Purchasing Green purchasing of office supplies used by employees Company-wide is being advanced by expanding the list of available items. The green purchasing ratio in 2011 was 82% (80% in 2010). Development of Eco-Friendly Technologies which can Contribute to the World Since joining the Company in 1990, I have engaged in study of MES, an environmentallyfriendly surfactant which is plant-derived materials of detergents. We have developed technologies to produce high quality products with less environmental impacts, which have been presently used at Lion Eco Chemicals in Malaysia. I hope to make a global contribution with our Taku Nishio Associate Senior technological ability, spreading Lion’s eco-friendly Research Manager, surfactants all over the world. Process Development Research Laboratories CSR Report 2012 31 The Environment Mitigating and Adjusting to Climate Change Reducing Greenhouse Gas Emissions Reducing CO2 Emissions after Product Use Looking beyond the Kyoto Protocol, the Lion Group set high Lion focuses on ways to reduce CO 2 emissions goals of reducing CO2 emissions by 30% or more in 2012, generated after product use through its product-related and 40% or more in 2020 compared to the level of 1990. At research and development activities. Specifically, we Lion, each employee is committed to reducing CO2 emissions. have worked on replacing petroleum-based surfactant ingredients with plant-based ingredients that do not lead to an increase in CO2. Reducing CO2 Emissions from Business Activities For related information, see p.31 In 2011, the Production Division worked to reduce CO2 Combining emissions from business activities and emissions through persistent energy-saving measures emissions generated after product use, our total CO2 in addition to a review of laundry detergent production emissions decreased 55% in 2011 compared to the efficiency and other efforts. Our Administrative & Sales 1990 level. Division and R&D Division advanced activities relating to the Challenge 25 Campaign – a national movement for Total CO2 Emissions Derived from Business Activities and Products the prevention of global warming promoted by Japan’s (tons) Ministry of the Environment. As a result, CO2 emissions 350,000 319,385 （100％） were reduced 35% in 2011 compared to the level of 300,000 1990, even with impacts from the shutdown of production facilities due to the Great East Japan Earthquake. 250,000 175,834 174,551 CO2 Emissions Reductions and Targets 200,000 163,548 （51％） （55％） (tons) Energy-derived CO2 emissions 144,915 （50％） （45％） 150,000 100 ％ 150,000 69,198 57,810 51,790 125,000 100,000 73％ 143,551 70％ 100,000 65％ 50,000 105,738 105,353 93,125 60％ 75,000 143,551 0 1990 2009 2010 2011 2012 Target (year) 105,353 50,000 93,125 Product-derived CO2 emissions from CO2 emissions business activities 25,000 0 1990 2010 2011 2012 target 2020 target(year) Initiatives in Logistics Lion works to reduce CO 2 emissions and specific Reducing CO2 emissions with energy consumption through efforts to improve company vehicles logistics efficiency, such as improving transport loading Gradually introducing small-displacement and low-emission rate and implementing joint deliveries with other vehicles as company vehicles, we have been working on manufacturers. We are also pursuing modal shifts from reducing CO2 emissions from our vehicles. With the ongoing truck transportation to transportation by rail or ship. introduction of hybrid cars since 2010, we plan to increase In 2011, the modal shift rate for all traffic volume was the percentage of hybrid cars in all of our company vehicles. 19.9%, and 66.3% for long-distance transport over In addition, we have made efforts for reducing the number 500km. of company vehicles with internal car sharing, and have While total CO2 emissions in logistics were 18,803 encouraged “eco-driving” which includes idling stop as well tons, a 5.4% reduction from the previous year, Lion’s as smooth start-up and acceleration driving practices. target of a year-on-year reduction of 1% or more (specific energy consumption) could not be achieved due to the deteriorated logistics efficiency resulting from the Great East Japan Earthquake. However, we continued to satisfy guidelines to the revised Act on the Rational Use of Energy by achieving a reduction of Using hybrid cars for sales 1% or more (specific energy consumption) on average activities each year from 2006. 32 CSR Report 2012 Biodiversity Conservation Approach to Biodiversity Conservation Surveying Environmental Impact Lion has assumed a leading role in tackling As almost all of Lion’s products end up being discharged into water environmental issues such as pollution and rivers, streams and other waterways after use. We assess eutrophication of waterways linked to the use this during the development stage to confirm that it is safe of detergents, and has considered biodiversity for the environment. In order to check that the environment conservation at each stage from raw material has not been harmed, we also participated in surveys on the procurement to disposal. concentration of four kinds of surfactants in rivers near Tokyo We will make efforts putting first priority on and Osaka, as well as in ecological risk assessments (four consideration toward biodiversity and water times a year), which are implemented by the Japan Soap and environment. Detergent Association. Thus far studies have found that the risk of wildlife being harmed is extremely low. Aiming for Sustainable Procurement of Palm Oil As surfactants “MES” and “MEE” are substances developed by Lion, we have investigated and assessed the Production of palm oil is steadily increasing due to concentration of these in the same public water areas, high productivity and the ability to harvest throughout and verified that their impacts on ecological systems are the year. Downsides to the development of new immaterial. plantations, however, are the clearing of tropical Lion is not the only organization engaging in safety rainforests and the shrinking of wildlife habitats. assessment and confirmation. Besides acquiring and In an attempt to resolve such problems, Lion has applying the latest information and technology available in been a member of the Roundtable on Sustainable Japan and overseas, we disseminate our own information, Palm Oil (RSPO)* since 2006. Plantation audits and contributing to safety advancements. certified palm oil distribution commenced in 2008. We *The latest data of river environment monitoring by Japan Soap and Detergent Association are aiming at switching completely to palm oil certified URL http://jsda.org/w/02_anzen/3kankyo_15.html by RSPO by 2015. Lion will continue to work with concerned organizations Protection of Rare Species The Environment such as the RSPO to promote sustainable palm oil procurement. Alongside business activities, Lion engages in activities like protection of rare species. Employees participate in these activities as volunteers, and that experience makes them more aware of environmental matters as they go about their jobs. Breeding of Sakawa River System Killifish The Odawara Plant registered with a propagation program for the endangered Sakawa River system The 9th RSPO Meeting killifish in 2003 and breeds the fish * RSPO (Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil) on plant premises. URL http://www.rspo.org/ Support for Sea Turtle Protection Under the guidance of the nonRSPO Certified Sustainable Palm Oil profit organization Sea Turtle RSPO established eight principles and 39 criteria A ssociation of Japan, Osaka required for sustainable palm oil production, including Plant plays a lead role in activities to protect the endangered “environmental responsibility and conservation of loggerhead sea turtle. natural resources and biodiversity”, “responsible Survey on Signs of Wildlife development of new plantings” and “ responsible In cooperation with NPO consideration of employees and of individuals, and Ear thw atch Japan, w e hav e communities affected by growers and mills”. Only gathered data for studying the impact of forest maintenance on palm oil, which is produced fulfilling those principles flora and fauna in the Lion Forest and criteria, is certified as sustainable palm oil. in Yamanashi. CSR Report 2012 33 Fair Operating Practices Conducting Thoroughly Fair Business Activities in Compliance with Social Rules Basic Approach Initiatives for Value Chains In the Lion Charter for Corporate Behavior and Action Guideline, Lion has Approach to CSR Procurement stipulated compliance with relevant laws and regulations; fair, transparent and free competition; fair trade; and maintenance of healthy and normal Lion carries out appropriate procurement of raw materials and finished relationship with political and administrative organizations, as part of products in keeping with its Purchasing Activity Principles and has its Compliance with Social Rules. In addition, various efforts such as promoted development of a supply chain management system. providing individual training to relevant departments have been made. In 2008, we formulated the Procurement Principles*, a set of CSR procurement guidelines clarifying social and environmental considerations. Promoting Compliance In 2009, we asked domestic and overseas business partners to acquaint themselves with the Procurement Principles and complete a The Corporate Ethics Committee, chaired by the director questionnaire. Subsequently, re-examination was asked business partners responsible for corporate ethics, works to foster compliance which did not respond to the questionnaire (77% response rate at the awareness within the Lion Group. end of 2011). We will continue to disseminate the Procurement Principles The basis for compliance is the Lion Group Charter for Corporate to our business partners and understand the status of CSR activities. Behavior. This is distributed in pamphlet form to all people working for the Lion Group and is publicly available via the Lion’s website. An annual program of employee awareness surveys and regular Procurement Principles educational activities is also implemented, the latter including Since its foundation, Lion has been doing its e-learning, lectures by outside speakers, and various training utmost to provide safe, high quality products and courses conducted at each workplace and according to rank. services that promote healthy, comfortable lifestyles. Upholding this effort in the procurement of raw materials and the purchase of products, and with the Compliance Awareness Survey cooperation of our business partners, we shall: All Lion Group employees are asked every year to complete a 1. Comply with prevailing laws and social norms and engage in compliance awareness survey. Findings are reported to management appropriate, rational transactions with every business partner in a freely competitive framework that is equitable, fair and and feedback is provided to individual divisions in order to communicate transparent; issues within the same workplace or company. This contributes to the 2. Rationally select business partners on the basis of quality, cost maintenance and strengthening of compliance systems. and timely delivery to fulfill our responsibility to customers; The fiscal 2011 survey (conducted in March 2012 with a 96% 3. Fully consider throughout our purchasing activities our response rate from around 4,000 employees) drew opinions on a range social responsibilities in such areas as global environmental of issues including problems with work environments. protection, labor and human rights toward creating a sustainable, healthy society; Percentage of Employees Who Received Survey Feedback 0 20 40 60 80 100（%） 4. Respect the confidentiality of business partners’ information and intellectual property rights and never engage in inappropriate 2007 56.0 % 42.6% 1.4% or unethical acquisition or use of such information or rights; 2008 72.5 % 26.5% 1.0% 5. Never offer business entertainment, gifts or monetary 2009 80.3% 19.3% 0.3% compensation to unfairly obtain profit; 2010 87.7% 12.0% 0.3% 6. Fulfill our social responsibilities together with our business partners with a shared commitment to co-existence and co2011 90.5% 9.2% 0.3% prosperity. (FY) Feedback received Not received No response Established on October 1, 2008 34 CSR Report 2012 Efforts in the Value Chain Teaming Up with Competitors on Delivery Raw material manufacturers Lion teamed up with competitors in 1989 to establish Planet Logistics Co., Ltd., for conducting joint deliveries to (Raw materials procurement) wholesalers. The philosophy behind joint delivery is, Manufacturing “Cooperate on systems, compete in the store.” Manufacturers Lion and affiliates (Manufacturing) partners compete fairly in stores, but cooperate on logistics in order (Distribution) to cut logistics costs, improve the quality of logistics, and address environmental issues. At the end of 2011, 18 Wholesalers manufacturers were participating in the joint deliveries. Fixed schedules, fixed volumes, bulk delivery, orderly (Sale) systems and standardization, all achieved through joint delivery, also lead to operational improvements and Retailers efficiencies within wholesale operations. Working with Wholesalers Evaluating Raw Material Suppliers from a CSR Perspective Lion’s distribution policy is founded on co-existence Lion has always sought to establish reciprocal and co-prosperity with wholesalers. We hold general relationships of trust with suppliers. In recent years, meetings of the “Lion-kai” forum to explain the we have responded to the growing requirement for Company’s business, marketing, and sales strategies, as CSR procurement by focusing on human resource well as through opinion exchange to promote common development and sending employees to participate in awareness of one another’s roles in increasing customer seminars on purchasing and procurement. satisfaction. As of the end of 2011, 247 wholesalers were We also carry out observations of raw material members of the Lion-kai. supplier plants at suitable intervals. Suppliers are selected after taking into account social considerations in addition to safety, environmental adaptability and quality. Fair Operating Inspection of raw materials suppliers Practices Fair Transactions with Manufacturing Partners Lion-kai General Meeting Manufacturer selection, transaction conditions, pricing and other criteria are determined through fair and transparent discussions. Maintaining and developing Respect for Intellectual Property Rights fair and friendly ties with manufacturing partners based on coexistence and co-prosperity allows us to As a basic policy related to intellectual property, Lion deliver higher quality products to customers in a timely has stipulated the following provision in the Action manner. Guideline: “We strive to create, appropriately protect, Conformity with the Act Against Delay in Payment and proactively use intellectual properties, respect of Subcontract Proceeds, etc. to Subcontractors is intellectual property rights of others, and avoid ensured through employee training. Related personnel improper acquisition and use of the rights.” participate in outside seminars on an ongoing basis and We established a department specialized in provide feedback to the others inside the Company in intellectual property to check that the rights are an effort to disseminate correct information. properly used without infringing the rights of others. CSR Report 2012 35 Consumer Issues Developing Safe and Reliable Products for Responding to Customers’ Demands Workshop to listen to customer opinions A variety of information is relayed through explanation Basic Approach about our products and providing samples to wholesalers Lion carries out quality assurance activities at all stages, and retailers. from the very beginning of the product creation process until customer consumption of our products, Appropriate Information Provision in order to turn out the kind of products our customer will be satisfied with. Specifically, by identifying In order to provide information customers need in an key requirements for each stage of corporate unbiased and appropriate manner, we have a system activity — product planning, product development, in place through which several departments check the manufacturing, sales, and responding to customers — labeling of products and advertisements. we are constantly pursuing new heights of customer satisfaction. Labeling in Local Language In product planning, valuable opinions received To facilitate customers’ accurate understanding about from customers are fully comprehended to identify the features of our products, we indicate usage and customers’ needs. In product development, the ingredients in the local language, in compliance with quality of developed products is verified in respect to laws and regulations of the sales area. seven parameters such as function and performance. Furthermore, we endeavor to provide clear, easy-toread labeling for customers. In manufacturing, quality is managed within each process, and products that have passed inspections are shipped with data identifiable for each lot, which is Thai Korean Chinese effective for after-sale management. Labeling of KireiKirei Hand Soap Flow of Product Development Incorporating Customer Opinion Customer satisfaction maximized Customers Customer support Management Developing safe, high-quality products 1 Product planning 2 Product development 3 Manufacturing 4 Sales Customer opinions and market survey Quality objectives are Raw materials and processes Product information is findings are reflected in planning in translated into technical are managed to lead communicated in an accessible the form of quality objectives that will parameters as quality of design. manufacture of products manner to ensure knowledge ensure customers are fully satisfied. The product is developed. with consistent quality. about features and usage. All employees acknowledge customer satisfaction as the starting point for realization of a happier lifestyle. By responding to customer opinions and making ongoing improvements to products, Lion creates products that heighten the satisfaction of customers. 36 CSR Report 2012 Developing of Safe, High-Quality Products Product 1 Designing products that will give customers greater satisfaction planning Customer Analysis/ Planning Discussion/approval opinions deliberation proposals Product Planning Meeting Preparing Executive Committee product Marketing research proposals ・Marketing Market research findings analysis ・Concept Customer ・Target quality level research 2 Product Building safety and quality into products development Deliberation on Deliberation on and Outcome of development is contents and containers checking of labeling approved after discussion Verification of quality Seven Parameters Production Engineering Meeting ❶ Function/Performance Outcome of development is approved after discussion. ❷ Usability ❸ Safety Product Planning Meeting ❹ Product stability Commercialization of product is approved after discussion. ❺ Environmental friendliness ❻ Appearance (including design) Executive Committee ❼ Compliance with laws and self-imposed standards Commercialization of product is finalized. Quality Verification Meeting Process Safety When starting development, the suitability On completion, the suitability Verification Meeting of quality objectives and matters deemed of the developed product is Safety assurances for manufacturing crucial to development are verified. verified. processes are verified. 3 Manufacturing Verifying quality in mass production Preparations Manufacturing Storage (shipment) Quality evaluation in Consumer Issues Verification of raw trial manufacturing material quality Verification of marketability Quality is managed in each process. Products are managed to ensure freshness. 4 Sales Providing information on product quality Information is provided to wholesalers Information on products is and retailers to ensure communication made available via displays, of product features and usage to samples, and newspapers, customers. television and other media. CSR Report 2012 37 Consumer Issues Approach to Safety and Reliability Responding to VOC Lion evaluates the safety of raw materials and safety VOC* from our customers is recorded in a privacyduring product use to ensure customer peace of mind. protected database, and after personal information is removed is then made available to the entire company Safety of Raw Materials via an information sharing system in order to make improvements and develop new products. Use of raw materials is determined only after verifying VOC deemed to have an especially strong influence safety, and only after implementing sample evaluation on customer satisfaction is reported to management and supplier survey in order to ensure specific quality. as a VOC daily letter, where planning divisions head Before use, raw materials undergo quality inspections efforts to improve quality through quick deliberation using parameters and testing methods according and implementation of solutions. In January 2011, 240 to category — drugs and food; quasi-drugs and VOC daily letters were issued. cosmetics; or miscellaneous. * VOC Voice of Customer Flow of Response to Customers Safety During Product Use Product development and improvement VOC Considering our customers’ various usage styles as well Inquiries daily letter Directors, Customer Support as our frail customers, Lion conducts safety evaluations Comments Corporate Auditors, Requests Executive Officers Customers of products based on a policy of averting risk through product design. Evaluations check sheets are employed to confirm VOC Reply meeting whether safety has been achieved through product Action Entire company design, ranging from “normal use” cases to “mistaken use” cases. Even for “irregular use” cases, we evaluate whether risk has been minimized and whether the risk is acceptable. The evaluation results are reflected in Information Database sharing system product safety, for example with inclusion of sufficient Flow of voice warnings on labels where necessary. Scope of Safety Confirmation Reckless Unforeseeable and Overview of Inquiries and Complaints unreasonable usage use During 2011 Foreseeable usage, but defying Around 96,000 inquiries and complaints were received Lower risk to acceptable Irregular accepted norms (overly excessive in 2011 (a 5% increase from 2010). Overall, 82% level and provide warnings use use, or use for purposes very were inquiries about product usage, outlets selling Lion different to those intended) products, product safety and so on; 10% were product Usage not as intended complaints, relating for example to dissatisfaction with Mistaken by Lion but which use must be expected effects after use or flavor and scent; 8% were related Required Safety to product problems, such as damage to flooring Assurance caused by detergent. Normal Usage as intended In January 2011, a toll-free consultation line was use by Lion opened. As more products indicating the toll-free number of the consultation line are launched into the Guidance and advice from standpoints envisaging market, the rate of inquiries and complaints received various usage situations are provided through our through the toll-free line has increased, accounting Quality Verification Meetings, comprising members for about 40% of all consultation through telephone of other different divisions. The aim is to prevent in December 2011. We will make efforts for creating damage caused by product use and lapses in the safety the environment in which customers feel easy about confirmation process. consulting. The number to call can be found on Lion’s In preparation for occurrence in the event of product website. trouble, we have in place an internal system to quickly *List of Inquiries URL http://www.lion.co.jp/ja/support/contact/ take countermeasures such as product recall. 38 CSR Report 2012 Fostering a Culture of Utilizing Customer Opinion Improvement Case Based on Customer Opinion Lion is working to foster a corporate culture whereby Modifying directions for use of insecticide Varsan all employees, not just product development personnel, consider and act upon customer perspectives. In 2011, for As it was difficult to understand contents of directions for use printed the purpose of learning the importance of thinking from on the package and attached document, many customers made customer’s perspective, newly-appointed directors and midinquiries about how to use the insecticide. In response to customer career researchers who also conducted this on an ongoing opinion, we modified the directions for use, enlarging a space and basis from the previous year, fielded telephone calls from fonts for directions, and including pictures and illustrations. customers, and promoted employee discussion based on Existing product Product released in 2012 the customer consultation as part of an exercise. Customer opinions are reported at regular meetings of individual departments in an effort to share information. We will press ahead with efforts to change the awareness of employees in order to deliver products and services created from a customer’s perspective. *Casting customer opinions into shape URL http://www.lion.co.jp/ja/support/voice/ Ensuring Satisfaction with Customer Support Information Security Improvement of Online Lion has established a number of guidelines and regulations Measure 1 Customer Support to prevent information leaks. They are a basic policy of In the questionnaire survey on Lion’s website conducted in our information management, information management 2010, we received many opinions, including that customers regulations, privacy regulations, information security regulations, found it is difficult to find information they want to know. and guidelines for management of information technology and Therefore, we modified our website design, for example, by equipment. Employees also undergo e-learning programs each displaying photos of our major products as an icon on links to year to enhance their awareness for the prevention of leaks. Q&A sections. Taking into account our customer opinions, we will strive to make a further user-friendly website. Privacy Protection Lion has established a privacy policy* and specific guidelines Measure 2 Implementation of a questionnaire on employee’s communication skills for management of personal information in accordance with In order to know the extent to which our customers are Japan’s Act on the Protection of Personal Information enacted satisfied with our way to address their queries or feedback, we in April 2003. The Company has been implementing these in conducted a questionnaire survey for about 300 customers a proper manner while pushing ahead with the establishment who contacted us during 2011. As a result, it was revealed that of related in-house systems and education programs. many customers highly evaluated our service. We will make *Privacy Policy URL http://www.lion.co.jp/pp.htm efforts for fostering personnel who can accurately understand the problems that our customers have, and offer accurate and satisfactory responses by implementing training to enhance Enhancing Information Provision to Customers our communication skills and knowledge of products. In order to support our customers’ healthy and comfortable life, through Lion’s website and other tools we provide lifestyleConsumer Issues Recall Status for Varsan Hyosatsu Jet Spray related information as well as information about how to use Voluntary recalls of Varsan Hyosatsu Jet Spray for our products. To enhance our initiatives, in August 2011, we Flying Bugs and Varsan Hyosatsu Jet Spray for established the Lion Comfortable Lifestyle Laboratories, a new Creeping Bugs have been implemented since August point of contact for lifestyle-related information. In addition, we 27, 2007, in response to combustion incidents. appointed four Meisters of Dairy Life, who create, accumulate As of March 31, 2012, the rate of recalled products and provide information using their expertise about oral care, was 45.7%, or 1.48 million products. Please make health care, laundry and cleaning. sure to return these products if you have any. We published two issues of our Contact number for Varsan Hyosatsu Jet Spray Kurashi Kaiteki Book including our returns: Toll-free information on oral care, as well Phone : 0120-670-225 (in Japanese only) as our know-how of laundry and Hours : 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. (except Saturdays, Sundays and public holidays) cleaning, which the Laboratory “Kurashi Kaiteki Book” cooperated to plan and supervise. CSR Report 2012 39 Consumer Issues Considering the Environment from a Product-Oriented Perspective Lion established the Lion Eco Standards to packaging material procurement; (3) manufacturing; quantitatively assess our environmental impacts at (4) logistics; (5) household use; and (6) disposal. In each stage from the procurement of raw materials this way, Lion develops products, considering the to the disposal of products, from the Life Cycle environment in terms of both product composition Assessment (LCA) perspective. The Standards define (contents), as well as containers and packaging. an “eco-friendly product” as a product that satisfied In order to lower as much as feasible the impact of the criteria of at least one area of evaluation based on products on the global environment throughout their a quantitative assessment of environmental impact in entire life cycle, Lion is earnestly committed to the the following stages: (1) raw material procurement; (2) development of eco-friendly products. Areas and Criteria of evaluation for the Lion Eco Standards Stage Evaluation area Evaluation criteria 1 Raw material Use of plant-based raw materials ● Percentage of plant-based raw materials in composition of organic substances is 50% or more. procurement Use of sustainable raw materials ● Biodiversity-conscious materials are used. Use of recycled materials ● Recycled materials including plastic are used. Packaging Use of sustainable materials In case of paper board, the use rate of pulp made from waste paper, forest thinnings, or wood of certified 2 material forests is 94% or more. Use of plant-based materials procurement ● Plant-based and biodegradable resins are used. Use of biodegradable materials Energy savings and reduction of water usage and wastewater during manufacturing ● Used amounts of energy, water, and chemicals, and discharge of drainage and waste volume during 3 Manufacturing manufacturing are reduced 20% or more compared with those of existing products. Reduction of chemical substances use Reduction of waste 4 Logistics Compact size, high concentration ● A product is downsized or concentrated by 20% or more compared with existing products. Energy savings during use (power savings) ● Energy consumption in use is reduced 20% or more compared with existing products. 5 Household use Organic substance release per use ● Organic substance release per use is reduced 20% or more compared with existing products. Reduction of water usage (water savings) ● Water usage in use is reduced 20% or more compared with existing products. Reduction of packaging and refill availability ● Packaging and wrapping materials used are reduced 15% or more compared with major products in the market. 6 Disposal Reuse and recycling of packaging, other ● Weight of pouches and bottles for refills are 50% or less of net weight. *The Lion Eco Standards does not require such points that materials do not contain hazardous chemicals or they have good biodegradability because these matters are obvious, minimum requirements. Percentage of Products Satisfying the Lion Eco Standards Environmental Considerations in Product Composition Development The number of products manufactured by Lion (excluding pharmaceuticals) satisfying criteria for at least one Lion Eco Lion is promoting development of product components Standards area of evaluation is rising steadily. This currently that meet environmental challenges such as global warming applies to 66% of all items, or 82% in terms of sales value. prevention with the use of plant materials, and water environment protection by using biodegradable materials Eco-Friendly Product Ratio and Percentage of Sales （%） and reducing water usage each time. Prime examples of this 100 approach are the development of methyl ester sulfonate 83 81 80 82 82 80 71 (MES) and methyl ester ethoxylate (MEE). For related information, see p.31 60 63 66 55 59 60 63 Lion was the first in the world to carry out the industrial 40 production of MES, which is used in TOP Platinum Clear and 20 other Lion powdered laundry detergents. 0 MEE, which even in small amounts has high detergency, is 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 (year) used in TOP NANOX and other liquid laundry detergents. ％ of sales ％ of products * Environmental Considerations in Product Composition Development URL http://www.lion.co.jp/ja/csr/env/composition/ 40 CSR Report 2012 “3Rs” for Reducing Containers and Packaging Reuse Lion actively promotes implementation of the “3Rs” (Reduce, Expanding the range of refill products Reuse, Recycle) as a container and packaging material reduction initiative. Using refills means the original plastic bottles for The Lion Eco Standards provide for container and packaging products can be re-used several times. Containers of reductions, prescribing related criteria under stages refill products also use less material than the original packaging material procurement, logistics and disposal. containers, and they are lighter and smaller, helping to reduce the amount of waste generated by households. Container and Packaging Material Usage by Lion (tons) total 80,000 70,212 67,720 64,642 60,841 57,817 901 567 486 9,485 472 440 60,000 11,140 Metal 9,789 8,252 7,678 Glass 16,505 15,283 13,533 11,700 10,147 Paperboard 40,000 Refill products 28,794 26,072 25,538 24,838 24,412 Corrugated Recycle 20,000 fiberboard 14,527 14,658 15,296 15,579 15,139 Plastic 0 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 (year) Use of recycled materials Reduce Use of recycled resins PET resin recycled from plastic drink bottles constitutes 20% or more of material for containers of dishwashing Smaller Products and Innovations in detergents. Measuring spoons for powder laundry Container Design detergents is made partly from recycled resin. Lion is working to reduce container and packaging material usage by increasing the concentration of products such as laundry detergents, dishwashing detergents and fabric softeners, as well as by making containers smaller. In 2011, total container and packaging material usage decreased by 3,024 tons to 57,817 tons due to a reduction in usage of all materials. Product containers made using recycled PET resin Lion will continue efforts to reduce container and packaging material usage through making smaller Use of paper made with recycled pulp products and innovative container designs. White paperboard made with recycled pulp is used Making Products Smaller for containers and packaging for such products as Consumer Issues toothpaste and detergents. It is stated clearly on Higher concentrations enable powder laundry detergent containers that the recycled smaller containers pulp content is at least 70%. Corrugated boxes used for transporting products have a 94% recycled pulp content. Halves the amount used Same number of wash cycles Earlier product TOP NANOX Container weight 118g 76g Product containers made using recycled pulp CSR Report 2012 41 Community Involvement and Development Bettering Society and Lifestyles in Local Communities through Health, Comfort and the Environment Summer program for elementary school students at Lion Headquarters Basic Approach to society in the front line of oral health, leading to a better quality of life for all people, by maintaining Lion’s central business themes — health, comfort and the and improving the dental and oral health of ordinary environment — are also the foundation for the Company’s citizens through the below-mentioned three projects, social contribution activities. We conduct activities in in cooperation with dental associations, universities, each area, placing importance on cultivating a mentality government authorities and other parties. Lion has among our employees of wanting to get involved. Much provided full support for these activities. energy is directed towards communication and education about oral care, as has been the case since the Company’s Three LDH Projects founding, as well as towards conservation of the water １．Oral health promotion projects environment. These efforts are directly related to our ・Activities to promote and provide education business activities. about oral health for all life stages ２．Research and investigative projects Activities of Lion Foundation for ・Investigating and studying the importance Dental Health of oral health in preparation for an increase in healthy life expectancy*, and providing Under the consistent philosophy of “returning benefits information on findings obtained through from corporate activities to society” since its founding, individual projects and activities to experts and Lion has been conducting oral care promotion and consumers. education activities since 1913. The Lion Foundation for ３．Educational and training projects Dental Health (LDH) was founded in 1964 under the ・Providing a variety of seminars and lectures for approval of the Ministry of Health and Welfare, and was health supervisors and dental experts recognized as a public interest incorporated foundation by * Refers to the period in people’s lives when they can care for the Cabinet Office in 2010. LDH continues to contribute themselves without nursing assistance. Development of Projects Responding to All Life Stages Age Birth 5 10 15 20 30 40 50 60 70 80 Life Stage Fetal stage Infancy School age Adolescence Young Middle and Old age adulthood late adulthood Oral health activities for mothers and children Oral health activities for adults (Occupational health) Oral health activities for the elderly Oral health activities for school children Oral health activities for the disabled Oral health promotion projects Oral health activities for the local communities Dissemination of oral health care information Development and distribution of oral health educational materials Research and Health informatics and research activities/ Clinical research activities in preventive dentistry investigative projects Educational and Providing seminars and lectures for health supervisors and dental experts training projects 42 CSR Report 2012 Oral Health Event of Tooth Brushing for children Academic Contribution With the aim of fostering school children’s awareness A research paper on the link between periodontal of health, including the importance of dental and oral diseases and metabolic syndrome won the clinical health, as well as tooth brushing, the Oral Health Event research award of the American Academy of of Tooth Brushing for children which has been ongoing Periodontology (AAP), which was jointly researched since 1932, is held in Tokyo every year during Japan’s by LDH, Nihon University School of Dentistry, the Dental Health Week (June 4 to 10). Graduate School of Medical and Dental Sciences In 2011, a live Internet video stream of the 68th of Tokyo Medical and Dental University, and Lion. Oral Health Event of Tooth Brushing for children was They are the first winners of this award from Japan, broadcast to a total of 315 elementary schools in 39 and their unique method of shedding light on the Prefectures nationwide as well as other Asian countries fact that people suffering periodontal diseases are (Korea, Hong Kong and Singapore) from the main more predisposed to metabolic syndrome was highly venue at Ryogoku Kokugikan. Approx. 22,000 school evaluated. LDH intend to promote studies which can children participated in the event. In Korea, 7 schools make academic and social contributions. with approx. 1,700 participants took part in this international event together simultaneous interpreters. Commemorative photo of prize winners, Prof. Maeno of Nihon University and Ms. Morita, LDH Researcher, with Mr. Donald, chairman of the AAP * Literature presented at academic meetings and published in magazines URL http://www.lion-dent-health.or.jp/library/list.htm The stage of main venue at Kokugikan Selected Social Contribution Activities by LDH (2011) Oral health activities for mothers and children LDH supports child-rearing through oral health activities for expectant mothers, infants, kindergarteners and their parents. 184 locations, 188 occasions Participants: 6,879 small children, 2,599 parents/guardians Oral health activities for school children Online class at elementary school LDH provides direct guidance activities for in Korea schoolchildren and their parents/guardians, and supports the activities of health supervisors. 422 locations, 530 occasions Participants: 40,808 school children,1,217 parents/ Overseas Activities guardians, and 4,549 health supervisors Information concerning the importance of dental and Oral health activities for adults (Occupational health) oral health and tooth brushing is needed by people all Advice is provided to workers, principally relating to over the world. LDH hopes to share its long-cultivated periodontal disease prevention and oral health care and promotion. oral health activity programs and teaching expertise 270 offices, 559 events with people in Japan and overseas. In proactive Recipients: 31,961 cooperation with dental experts mainly in South East Oral health activities for the elderly LDH provides support for maintenance of oral Asian countries, LDH intends to globally work on and functions so the elderly can maintain their own teeth. contribute to improvement in oral health. 57 locations, 62 events Participants: 843 Examination and Treatment Community Highly specialized and high quality examinations, Explaining LDH treatments and preventive dentistry activities are Involvement and activities at the 6th provided in line with the concept of risk control Asian Conference of dentistry. Development Oral Health Promotion Recipients:11,792 for School Children in Hanoi CSR Report 2012 43 Community Involvement and Development Protection of Water Resources 2011 Rainwater Utilization Idea Contest Lion is inherently linked to water through delivering various kinds of Aiming at diffusion of rainwater utilization among detergent products, hence we have a responsibility to protect the children nationwide, we held the 2011 Rainwater water environment, for example through environmental consideration Utilization Idea Contest for junior high and elementary in our products. Particular initiatives we focus on are the promotion school students. The contest consisted of four categories: of the use of rainwater — a water resource we are all familiar with posters or paintings, essays or reports, research projects — and forest maintenance activities at the Lion Forest in Yamanashi, and slogans, with 6,099 entries in total. In January and which plays a major role in the protection of water resources. February 2012, the school incentive award was presented respectively to an elementary school and a junior high Support for the Promotion of Rainwater Harvesting school which sent many excellent works to the contest. In May and June 2012, the commendation ceremony The world’s water environments have become threatened, with and the exhibition were held for five grand prix winning regions across the globe frequently experiencing either flooding or works and 17 excellence award winning works at Tokyo drought. Lion is promoting the use of rainwater as a solution that Skytree and Tokyo Skytree Town which are facilities will take us closer to a water-recycling society. making use of rainwater. Sumida Ward in Tokyo, where Lion Headquarters is located, is leading the way in sky water harvesting with facilities like the Kokugikan (sumo wrestling arena) making use of rainwater. Lion also works with the Sumida Ward-based NPO People for Rainwater to promote rainwater use. Lion facilities — the headquarters building, the Hirai Office, and the Lion Eco Chemicals Sdn. Bhd. in Malaysia — use rainwater for gardening watering and flushing toilets, as well as for cooling water for plants. Furthermore, Lion supports promotion of rainwater harvesting through various activities such as sponsorship of Rainwater Network Japan's national conference*. *Rainwater Network Japan An organization consisting of citizens, government, corporations and researchers The grand prix winning works in the “poster/painting” category which conduct activities aiming to achieve a society in which rainwater is recycled. (from left)“Rain drop cycle” by Hibiki Furuta in Shizuoka Prefecture, “Playing with water” by Riku Iwamoto in Nagasaki Donating Rainwater Tanks to All Public Elementary Schools Prefecture and Kindergartens in Fukushima Ward, Osaka City As we believe that teaching children about importance of rainwater harvesting will lead to an improvement of future water environment, the Environmental Conservation Section of Osaka Prefecture, Kansai People for Rainwater, and Lion jointly donated two rainwater tanks each to all 9 public elementary schools and 3 kindergartens in Fukushima Ward, Osaka City, where Lion Osaka Office is located. At the same time, environmental learning classes with skits were implemented to teach children about importance of water. In May, Osaka City offered a letter of appreciation to us during the presentation ceremony at Osaka City Hall. Children watering from rainwater tanks The school incentive award presentation ceremony (above) Shonan Shirayuri Gakuen Elementary School (below) Ritsumeikan Uji Junior High School Environmental learning class Presentation ceremony for rainwater tanks * Ame no Megumi Hiroba (from left) Mr. Nagai, Superintendent of URL http://www.lion.co.jp/ja/csr/social/rain/ Education of Osaka City and President Fujishige (current Chairman) 44 CSR Report 2012 Lion Forest in Yamanashi Major Social Contribution Activities (2011) Since 2006, Lion has regarded the Lion Forest in Yamanashi as a field for raising environmental ・Presented the Best Student Poster Presentation Award awareness among employees, and we have conducted (Lion Award) at Japan Society on Water Environment forest maintenance activities with the aim of protecting (JSWE) annual conference water sources, absorbing CO2, preserving biodiversity, ・Presented the Lion Awards, and revitalizing local communities. In 2011, a total of 55 March which support association activities relating to preventive employees and interested parties voluntarily participated dentistry and development in three forest maintenance activities. Moreover, 24 of young researchers (March, September, October and persons participated in two wildlife surveys. November) In March 2012, recognized for the forest maintenance activities resulting in 16.1 tons of CO2 absorbed during June ・Sponsored 13th Japan Water Award 2011, Lion received a forest development and CO2 absorption certificate from Yamanashi Prefecture. Donated planters made ・Implemented the Sumida of timbers from forest River Fireworks Project, thinning in Yamanashi to inviting evacuatees in residents of temporary Tokyo from the disasterhousing units in hit areas in Tohoku Kesennuma City hit by region to watch Sumida earthquake in 2011 River Fireworks Festival * Lion Forest in Yamanashi URL http://www.lion.co.jp/ja/csr/social/forest/ ・Provided support for Rainwater Network Japan’s national conference Activities Through Products ・Held science education Lion has conducted the Lion TOP Eco Project as an program for elementary August school students in initiative for water environmental conservation through Edogawa Ward, Tokyo its TOP laundry detergent. In 2008, we started the Japan Clean Water Foundation Campaign to support ・Held lessons during river protection activities, whereby we donate ¥1 for summer holidays to teach elementary school every product of TOP Platinum Clear sold to schools students and parents and citizen groups through the Japan River Association. living in vicinity of Tokyo In 2011, the fourth year, we donated ¥10,232,720. and Osaka facilities about hand washing, In addition, aiming at having children think about tooth brushing and the water environment surrounding them, we held the gargling (Held also “Future river picture diary contest for kids and parents during spring holidays during March in Osaka) event.” From among 1,070 entries, 10 works were selected for the Seiryu Boken Juku Award, and 10 works for the Future River Award. ・Contributed to the Ten children who won the Seiryu Boken Juku Award development of the were invited, accompanied by a parent, to the TOP next generation through Seiryu Boken Juku 2011, a program to experience the December support for the “Dream class trip”charity wildness at a river in Okinawa prefecture, where they baseball event for kids learned the importance of the water environment (Children’s Dream Fund) including rivers and the sea. Plant Tours in 2011 Plant Chiba Odawara Osaka Akashi Total Number of tours 59 128 64 58 309 Community Involvement and Participants 1,041 2,153 1,900 2,024 7,118 Development Activities of NPO Tsurumi River TOP Seiryu Boken Juku 2011 Basin Networking which donated through our Campaign CSR Report 2012 45 Third-Party Review I will make third party comments about “CSR Report 2012” that such data will be further enhanced and expanded for (hereinafter referred to as “the CSR Report”）of the Lion easy-to-understand commentaries. Group, after reading the CSR Report. For this purpose, 4. The environment I visited Hirai Office Communication Center and R&D Headquarters of Lion Corporation, and received explanations Aiming at being a leading company in environmental about Lion’s CSR initiatives from a manager of CSR friendliness, the Lion Group has been committed to reducing Promotion Department. environmental impacts throughout the supply chain. The CSR Report was compiled in accordance with the This can be understood by seeing environmental targets global standards of ISO26000 (social responsibility), in and their achievements in activities to reduce CO2 emissions addition to the Environmental and achieve zero emission status. In 2011, CO 2 emissions Reporting Guidelines and the in business activities were reduced 35% compared to the GRI Guideline to which the 1990 level, achieving a high target of 30% reduction a year Lion Group has conventionally ahead of schedule. While overseas business locations have referred. As a result, contents conducted activities setting goals, I expect them to make are better organized, enlarged, efforts for attaining a reduction in CO2 emission closer to the and improved as stated below. domestic goals. Although it was stated that Lion reduces CO2 by shifting 1. CSR of the Lion Group product materials derived from petroleum to plants, At the beginning of the CSR Report, we show our overall simultaneously considering biodiversity, there are problems image of our CSR activities, under the basic idea of such as destruction of nature through developing firms performing CSR activities on the basis of our Company in a country of origin. Therefore, it is necessary to obtain Motto and Management Philosophy, which is the customer’s understanding over environments with easyCompany’s founding spirit, in order to contribute to the to-understand explanations about efforts for natural realization of a healthy and comfortable life. Especially, our conservation. CSR activities, which extensively involve the entire supply chain from business partners, use by consumers, through It is also notably appreciated that Lion sufficiently considers environmental impacts after use of products can be highly and deliberates the safety of its products in use by evaluated. I believe that statements about initiatives will consumers. Consumers may use products in the wrong or be more objective by setting clear goals and showing abnormal way. However, safety is ensured even in the case quantitative data. of improper use. Furthermore, it can be seen that positive Although information only about domestic Lion group efforts are made to reduce risks in abnormal use beyond the companies is disclosed in the CSR Report, I think it will be conventional wisdom. preferable to include overseas affiliated companies especially Furthermore, it can be highly appreciated that Lion has in Thai, Korea, and China, which are growing in business conducted various social contribution activities, taking performance. advantage of the Group’s strength, for example, support for the areas impacted by the disaster and activities through the 2. Organizational Governance Foundation. In relation to Organizational Governance, as the CSR Report According to a survey conducted by Japan Institute for respectively explains about frameworks, risk management Social and Economic Affairs, when assessing companies, and internal control, it is easy to understand Lion’s initiatives. consumers regard corporate websites and CSR reports as I believe that easy-to-understand explanations will be the most reliable information. I believe that, in order to win provided especially in terms of a relationship between social trust, it is the best way for the Lion Group to disclose each initiative, as well as corporate objectives and social information on initiatives for fulfilling social responsibility, responsibility. their results and effects in a transparent and easy-tounderstand manner. 3. Human rights/Labor practices *The comments do not express and assure opinions on accuracy and completeness of contents stated in the CSR Report. The most important business resource to achieve management objectives is employees. In order to effectively Yoshito Nakamura Professor, Faculty of Business Administration utilize them, it is necessary to create working environments of Toyo University in which each employee can make the maximum use of Certified Public Accountant Auditor of the Supporting Organization of JOCV his or her ability. The Lion Group indicated how much such Chairman,Committee for Office Security Mark Certification System, basic ideas have been put into practice with time-series New Office Promotion Association Auditor of the Kawasaki City Council of Social Welfare data, so that its activities can be easily understood. I hope Member of Evaluation Committee for Independent Administrative Institutions,Japanese Ministry of Defense 46 CSR Report 2012 Lion’s Responses Founded in 1891, Lion has been committed to our CO 2 emissions reduction target a year ahead of management which is strongly conscious about schedule. Admittedly, however, I think we should contribution to society, under the Company make efforts for providing information to consumers Motto, “Fulfilling a Spirit of Love.” Supported by all in easy-to-understand manners as a leading company stakeholders, Lion Marked its 120th anniversary in in environmental friendliness. It is also necessary for October 2011, and simultaneously formulated a new overseas group companies to gradually advance corporate message , “Supporting cleanliness, health their activities and aim towards higher goals. Lion and comfort, while protecting our global environment. will steadily work on the Group-wide CSR activities This is our mission, one in which we take pride.” This is including the supply chain, which are indicated in part of the corporate message, which exactly expresses ISO26000. the reason for our existence. I believe that Lion’s mission is to help people make In order to make CSR activities more systematic and good habits, and to resolve new social issues strategic, the CSR promotion division has become accompanying social changes through our business headed directly by the President in 2012. We are activities. Disclosing information on Lion’s CSR aiming at establishing a framework in which progress initiatives through CSR Reports and our website in management will be possible by using ISO26000 order to facilitate dialogue with stakeholders, Lion will and reorganizing issues and goals by core subject. As fulfill responsibilities appropriate to the needs of the a progress report on those efforts, the CSR Report, times. which had been conventionally compiled with themes by stakeholder, focused on core subjects of ISO26000. In the Third Party Review, it was appreciated that Lion has made sincere efforts as a consumer goods Itsuo Hama manufacturer for ensuring the safety of product use by Representative Director customers. As an environmental effort, we achieved and President Editorial Note Since 2011, Lion has systematized its CSR activities in accordance with ISO26000, with the CSR Report was compiled following it. As with existing CSR Reports, we aim to provide an easy-to-read report. This year, the topic “Responses to the Great East Japan Earthquake” is featured in our report. Wishing for the earliest reconstruction of the devastated areas, we are presently continuing our on-site activities to support the reconstruction. In 2011, Lion formulated a new management vision, Vision 2020, and decided upon a new corporate slogan of: life. love. Lion. Clarifying the entire image of Lion’s CSR activities with the aim of being a “Company that Creates Value for Lifestyle and Spiritual Fulfillment” by supporting cleanliness, health and comfort while protecting our global environment, we intend to proactively disclose information through CSR reports. CSR Report 2012 47 Corporate Message For 120 years, we have engaged in business closely related to people s living. In due course, we learned that the essence of happiness is to live fulfilling everyday lives and to cultivate a positive attitude. An accumulation of todays becomes your entire life, and a part of your life happens today. Therefore, we believe that valuing each day of each person leads to valuing his or her life. Lion s role is to provide support for this kind of daily living. Under these ideas, we prepared our corporate message, resolving to continue to make new proposals toward our customers valuable futures. Published : November 15, 2012 Inquiries : CSR Promotion Department, Lion Corporation 3-7, Honjo 1-chome, Sumida-ku, Tokyo 130-8644, Japan Tel: +81-3-3621-6611 Fax: +81-3-3621-6269 Website: http://www.lion.co.jp/en/ Next scheduled publication : November 2013 In recognition of its advanced environmental initiatives, Lion has been certified as an Eco First Company by the Japan’s Ministry of the Environment.
