CSR 2011 Table of ­contents Statement by the CEO 3 Policies and goals for 2012 4 Occuptional health and safety 5 Environmental and climate policy 7 Procurement, anti-corruption and laboratory animal welfare 9 Code of conduct for NeuroSearch 11 2 NEUROSEARCH 2011 CSR Statement by the CEO NeuroSearch’s CSR report 2011 contains changes in the form To the extent possible, we want to adhere to the UN definition of new priorities and new expectations for the future. The report of the ten Global Compact principles and support the Global shows that CSR at NeuroSearch is a dynamic process and Compact network and its mission. Within our sphere of relations, closely integrated with our business strategy. The report also we will make every effort to embrace, prepare and comply with describes how an organisation can undergo extensive change in objectives within the four main areas defined by the UN. At the a single year and still prioritise important core areas such as the same time, we recognise that, given our new organisation, it environment, employee relations, human rights, animal welfare may be a challenge for us to contribute actively with innovative and anti-corruption. solutions with respect to the environment, human rights, anticorruption and labour standards. The year 2011 was a year of change for NeuroSearch. We had to say goodbye to many highly competent employees, and the The year 2012 will be highly challenging. We hope to be able to continuing organisation will not be fully implemented until midplay an active role in the global CSR network. I am confident that 2013. It is always difficult to manage an organisation undergoing we will be able to make improvements and set up goals for our major downsizing, but I believe that, with our sharper business CSR work going forward. CSR has become part of NeuroSearch’s focus and new structure, we will stand well prepared to face the core values, and we want to maintain our focus on our new priorichallenges of the future and create success. ties in the years ahead. On the CSR side, the changes meant that we had to restructure Patrik Dahlen, CEO three of our policies and goals for 2012. We largely met our goals for 2011, but in applying the ”comply or explain” reporting principle, it is important for us to explain the steps we will be taking in the future. CSR NEUROSEARCH 2011 3 Policies and goals for 2012 Background and description of policies and goals for 2012 It has therefore been necessary for us to restructure our CSR strategy for 2012. In 2011, our CSR steering group worked with the goals we had set up for the organisation. The CSR steering group – made up of CSR is still a high-priority area at NeuroSearch, and the goals representatives from Legal, Finance, Corporate Affairs, the Animal we have set for 2012 have been adapted to our new business Care Unit, Property Service, Purchasing and Working Environstrategy and organisational structure. The steering group has been ment – was established in 2010 and charged with the task of changed and will, in future, include employee representatives developing and implementing NeuroSearch’s CSR goals. as well as members from Finance, Legal, Investor Relations and Communications. A few of the CSR categories have also been NeuroSearch supports the UN Global Compact principles, but in combined to make it realistic and feasible to implement our goals, 2010 we elected to expand the CSR field to include laboratory both administratively and organisationally. animal welfare, as it is an important area of responsibility in the pharmaceutical industry. The steering group elected to set goals The following have been designated high-priority areas for CSR in for the following categories: 2012: 1. Employee relations and occupational health and safety 1. Work environment 2. Supplier management 2. Environment and climate 3. The environment 3. A general code of conduct, which includes goals for: 4. Anti-corruption, including pharma ethics a. Anti-corruption 5. Laboratory animal welfare b. Supplier management 6. The local community c. Human rights and laboratory animal ethics 7. Philanthropy The steering group has elected to continue with the same work The main emphasis will be on anti-corruption, environmental environment goals: among other things, continuing development impact, occupational health and safety, supplier management of a management system that complies with OHSAS 18001 with and animal welfare. In 2010, NeuroSearch developed policies, the aim of achieving a certification level and to assess the need manuals and procedures for these five areas of priority. for actual certification once the continuing organisation has been finally implemented. The steering group also wants to continue In 2011, NeuroSearch went through a major restructuring its work with the environment and climate, using ISO 14001 as process to optimise its financial and management resources. In guidelines for optimising and making efficiency improvements. spite of extensive changes, the steering group has successfully implemented almost all of its goals. One of the effects of the In the remaining areas, it has been decided to lay down a general restructuring process was the redundancy of about 80% of our NeuroSearch code of conduct. This code will consolidate the employees. Implementation of the new organisational structure goals for the four areas specified above under item 3. One of the will not be completed until mid-2013. In downsizing our staff, our changes in the new organisation is the discontinuation of in-house goal was to treat all staff fairly and show redundant employees animal experiments: thus a separate policy for laboratory animals our respect with a good severance package. is no longer necessary. In future, laboratory animal welfare will be outsourced to contract animal testing companies, and the same NeuroSearch has started and maintained various initiatives applies to all clinical trials. We will work with laboratories that to encourage employee motivation and commitment in the adhere to our code of conduct. continuing organisation. One of these initiatives is aimed at drawing attention to employee health and well-being, free The new structure also reduces the number of NeuroSearch access to the exercise room, fresh fruit and changing rooms to suppliers of goods and services from approximately 600 to far encourage employees to exercise before, during and after work. fewer than 100. The purpose of the code of conduct is therefore We also continue to support the ”We cycle to work” campaign to ask these suppliers to comply with NeuroSearch’s ethical in May of each year, and we will continue to support employee expectations and demands. The steering group has decided to use participation in the annual DHL Relay Race. the UN Guiding Principles (UNGP) in the process to ensure that the code of conduct reaches beyond direct suppliers and deeper into NeuroSearch’s new business strategy supports our ambition the value chain. of creating a profitable specialty pharma business. One of the success criteria of the CSR strategy is that it must complement CSR is a dynamic process at NeuroSearch, which is reflected in and be integrated into NeuroSearch’s general business strategy. the changes we will implement going forward. We wish to work 4 NEUROSEARCH 2011 CSR strategically with CSR and will ensure that it becomes an integral part of our business strategy. Occupational health and safety The Global Compact principles on human rights NeuroSearch employees are one of the company’s strongest assets. NeuroSearch intends to continually aim for a strong cor1. Businesses should support and respect the protection of porate profile, both in house and externally, with a culture based internationally proclaimed human rights on job satisfaction, innovation, openness and confidence in each 2. Businesses should make sure they are not complicit in human employee showing responsibility towards his or her colleagues rights abuses and the company as a whole. NeuroSearch wants its employees to be satisfied with their jobs Labour standards and makes every effort to prevent illness and help any employees on sick leave keep their job. NeuroSearch is making targeted and 3. Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the systematic efforts to constantly improve relevant areas in the field effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining of occupational health and safety. We have set ambitious goals 4. Businesses should support the elimination of all forms of and work environment considerations form part of our corporate forced and compulsory labour strategy. We use a health and safety management and documen5. Businesses should support the effective abolition of child tation system that enables us to constantly check and improve labour our efforts in this field. It is the responsibility of each employee 6. Businesses should uphold the elimination of discrimination in to always make his or her best effort for NeuroSearch, to feel respect of employment and occupation responsibility for his or her work and to contribute to a dynamic, pleasant and constructive work environment. NeuroSearch will constantly work to ensure a safe and healthy work environment for its employees and ensure that these considerations are not disregarded for the purpose of gains in terms of Report on the work environment goals set for 2011 financial performance or results. The organisation complies with and will continue to comply with current law in the fields of occuAt NeuroSearch, work environment has high priority in all areas, pational health and safety and the environment. We are working including the physical, chemical, biological, ergonomic and psydeterminedly to promote a good physical and psychological work chological work environment. environment through visible management support, local anchoring of occupational health and safety activities in the company’s One of the CSR goals for 2011 was to implement an occupational departments and a day-to-day focus on health and safety. health and safety management system. NeuroSearch successfully implemented an occupational health and safety management We focus on significant health and safety issues and increase our system in the course of 2011: a system that ensures systematic preventive efforts in the field by optimising our procedures, e.g. follow-up on employees’ health and well-being, accidents and in connection with handling chemicals and waste from our daily near-accidents. operations. Goals for 2011 Initiatives and results Implement an occupational health and safety management The initiative has been completed and rolled out for use system by all company employees Prepare a SWOT analysis in connection with a future NeuroSearch is ready for screening, but whether OHSAS implementation of OHSAS 18001 certification 18001 certification will be implemented will be evaluated when the continuing organisation is in place in mid-2013 CSR NEUROSEARCH 2011 5 In late 2011, a survey of the psychological work environment was free access to an exercise room, fresh fruit and changing rooms conducted, and the follow-up in early 2012 included both inforwith lockers, all designed to encourage employees to exercise mation provided to all employees and a measurable ambition for before, during and after work. For many years, we have held the company in certain selected parameters. In late 2012, another our ”We Cycle to Work” campaign in May of each year, and we survey of the psychological work environment will be performed, support employee participation in the annual DHL Relay Race. using the same questionnaire to detect any changes. The plan We previously supported mobile blood donation together with the is to conduct these surveys every year to ensure transparency in company next door, Struers, but this activity was closed down at connection with the psychological work environment. the end of 2011 due to too few participants from the continuing organisation. No SWOT analysis (strengths, weaknesses, opportunities and threats) was conducted for the OHSAS 18001 certification In early 2012, we will participate in a regional health project toprocess, and ceritification will not be pursued in 2012, though gether with other local companies, the DSB commuter train lines, OHSAS 18001 will still be the guiding principle. The need for four municipalities and the Danish Cyclists’ Federation. The proOHSAS 18001 certification will be re-evaluated once the changed ject includes screening NeuroSearch as a cycle-friendly company, organisation has been fully rolled out in 2013. custom-made bicycles, permanent bicycle parking spaces at commuter train stations, and financial incentives to use public We have initiated and maintained various initiatives designed to transport. This initiative is expected to further boost attention on draw attention to the health and well-being of our employees: healthy and environmentally friendly transport options among our employees. Goals for 2012 Optimise the occupational health and safety management system, with OHSAS 18001 as the guiding principle Follow up on mapping of the company’s psychological work environment and report to and anchor with company employees Be aware of work pressure and provide relief in situations where employees show signs of stress 6 NEUROSEARCH 2011 CSR Environmental and climate policy The Global Compact principles on the environment Report on the environmental and climate goals set for 2011 7. Businesses should support a precautionary approach to It is an important goal for us that our climate efforts are docuenvironmental challenges mented systematically. We will use the ISO 14001 standard as a 8. Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater guideline in optimising and increasing our efficiency in reducing environmental responsibility our environmental and climate impact. 9. Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies NeuroSearch began an analysis project in 2011 regarding its climate and CO2 footprint, a project that has already led to chanNeuroSearch will work to protect and improve the environment ges in our environmental impact. In the second half of 2011, we and global climate by continuing to develop our work methods converted our heating system from a natural gas-powered nonand incorporating innovation into the way we generate CO2. Our condensing furnace to waste-based district heating. According to global climate efforts must be documented systematically, and the Danish Energy Authority, this changes our emissions from 258 we will use the ISO 14001 standard as a guideline for optimising kilos of CO2/MWh to 59 kilos of CO2/MWh, equivalent to a reducand increasing our efficiency with respect to environmental and tion of roughly 77%. Based on our current heating requirements, climate impact. we expect to reduce our CO2 emissions from 537 to 122 tonnes/ year. The discrepancy in the table below is due to the fact that we used district heating for part of 2011, so the full savings will not be apparent until our 2012 reporting. We also reviewed our IT infrastructure in 2011, and initiated and completed a consolidation of servers through virtualisation. NeuroSearch has obtained CESA certification at Level 1. NeuroSearch has introduced a rule that all cleaning agents, both liquid and solid, must be approved by its health and safety organisation. This includes a requirement that all cleaning detergents must be swan-labelled (the Nordic green label). Goals for 2011 Initiatives and results Map our emissions of greenhouse gases and total climate In 2011, we converted from natural gas heating to district impact, and set targets for our reduction of CO2 emissions heating, which we expect will cut our CO2 emissions by by the end of 2011 60% in full-year figures Review our infrastructure and optimise our data centre, We reviewed our IT infrastructure and completed a conincluding a look at our server ventilation systems and solidation of servers through virtualisation. NeuroSearch power management at the individual workplace level has obtained Level 1 CESA certification CSR NEUROSEARCH 2011 7 Goals for 2012 Reduce CO2 emissions by 60% Join the EU-subsidised ”Carbon 20” climate partnership, which involves screening NeuroSearch to determine its climate impact. NeuroSearch will focus on CO2 emissions related to power and ventilation Have the person responsible for buildings at NeuroSearch take part in a local network on energy whose members meet four times a year and exchange knowledge and experience with measures aimed at reducing their climate footprint Reduce energy consumption as and when the staff is downsized and parts of the building can be closed 8 NEUROSEARCH 2011 CSR Procurement, anti-corruption and laboratory animal welfare Due to the changes made in NeuroSearch’s organisation, its policies on procurement, anti-corruption and animal welfare Total number of mammal and fish larvae registred for in-house will be replaced by a code of conduct covering all three fields animal experiments based on the ten principles of the UN Global Compact. Below Number is a report on our work and results in 2011, followed by the first 60,000 version of our new code of conduct. 50,000 40,000 Report on procurement, anti-corruption and laboratory ani30,000 mal welfare for 2011 20,000 10,000 Procurement policy 0 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 In 2011, NeuroSearch issued a set of guidelines to our suppliers based on the ten principles of the Global Compact. One supplier Mammal Fish was subsequently audited as part of an auditing pilot project. The supplier, who is also a member of the Global Compact network, was audited for measures such as job enrichment through job rotation on repetitive routine jobs and a recycling programme involving a zero-sum solution for waste through extensive source Our RRR work is described in our policy for laboratory animals, and materials sorting. The supplier was also certified to the ISO which will be phased out in 2012. Relevant measures in 2011 14001 and 9001 standards and employed the OHSAS 18001 included the replacement of many rodents by zebra fish. management system. In the course of 2012, animal experiments will be contracted Due to the structural changes at NeuroSearch, we expect the out, as we will no longer have the necessary capacity to conduct number of direct suppliers to decrease considerably in 2012. As this testing in house. As a result, we have adjusted our goals for a result, we will adapt our procurement policy to reflect these 2012 to reflect the new situation, and our objective for this policy changes, also by adding a requirement that sub-suppliers pass area will be to develop a code of conduct which includes animal our guiding principles on to their suppliers. We have communitesting contractors conducting animal studies initiated by Neurocated the Global Compact principles both in house and to our Search. The new code of conduct will replace our current animal remaining suppliers of goods in mutual contracts. welfare policy. We will also demand confirmation by research contractors handPolicy for laboratory animal welfare ling clinical trials for NeuroSearch that they comply with the Good Clinical Practice (GCP) rules, the Helsinki declaration, EU Directive Our goal for 2011 was to implement the Danish Ministry of Justi2001/20/EC and the guidance on clinical trials defined by of the ce Reduction, Refinement and Replacement (RRR) definition in International Conference on Harmonisation. These requirements our day-to-day handling of animals. We maintain high laboratory have been written into contracts to be used by NeuroSearch with animal welfare standards that include a constant focus on the research contractors handling larger-scale projects. RRR objective. NeuroSearch requires documentation from its suppliers of laboratory animals of valid accreditation to ISO 9001 or the US Assessment and Accreditation of Laboratory Animal Care International (AAALAC). CSR NEUROSEARCH 2011 9 Anti-corruption areas such as clinical testing and marketing in order to reduce the risk of corruption. As part of our anti-corruption goals for 2011, we have updated our standard contracts to ensure that our collaborative partners To further strengthen our anti-corruption work, we will in 2012 in fields vulnerable to corruption commit themselves and any identify our business-critical areas and prepare employees to sub-suppliers they may have to compliance with our antihandle critical situations correctly. Our legal department will corruption principles. assist us by providing information in house on collaboration with consultants and other third parties and situations in which We have centralised our in-house approval process for working conflicts of interest may arise. with external consultants and other suppliers in business-critical Goals for 2011 Initiatives and results Procurement policy Communicate the corporate code of conduct and We did not draft a code of conduct specifically for supprocurement policy internally and externally to all Neuropliers because the number of suppliers we use dropped Search stakeholders dramatically in connection with our restructuring. Instead, we prepared a NeuroSearch code of conduct based on the UN Global Compact; the code defines demands and expectations to our entire value chain Follow up on/audit our code of conduct and identify ten We have conducted a pilot audit of the ten principles of supplier partnerships the Global Compact of one supplier. The outcome was that the supplier complied with all ten principles, as it was also a member of the UN Global Compact network Laboratory animal policy Incorporate the Ministry of Justice RRR definition in NeuroSearch has systematically replaced rodents by zebra NeuroSearch’s animal welfare policy and in our day-to-day fish wherever possible ( Replacement ). Moreover, there handling of experimental animals was a significant improvement both in number of animal tests conducted and precision in testing, which meant we fulfilled the Reduction requirement Anti-corruption policy To work towards a world free of corruption We have developed a number of initiatives designed to ensure openness and transparency in the organisation, including a new centralised approval process for use of suppliers and external consultants To create a zero-tolerance initiative in business areas The use of industry standards by suppliers ensures that that are especially at risk of corruption by ensuring those especially at risk gain a better understanding of increased communication and anchored initiatives NeuroSearch and also of the anti-corruption principles of aimed at establishing an understanding of NeuroSethe pharmaceutical industry arch’s anti-corruption policy 10 NEUROSEARCH 2011 CSR Code of conduct for NeuroSearch The NeuroSearch Code of Conduct is a set of rules defined Compliance with laws, regulations and industry standards to help employees and suppliers in their ethical attitudes and conduct. The rules are not exhaustive, but they put focus on Our suppliers and business partners must comply with all natiogood, open and transparent conduct in areas with special risk to nal laws and regulations. They must have a special focus on ruthe company and its stakeholders. NeuroSearch has prepared les regarding the environment, work environment, health, safety in-house and external business procedures to ensure that our and human rights. Our suppliers must especially comply with all ambitions and goals are met and to ensure that we comply with rules and standards applicable and relevant in the pharmaceutithe ten principles of the Global Compact. The NeuroSearch Code cal industry, such as Good Clinical Practice (GCP) and in certain of Conduct is also based on the ten principles. cases also Good Laboratory Practice (GLP). NeuroSearch publishes a corporate governance report every This code of conduct is being implemented to ensure that our year containing a detailed review of the company’s compliance suppliers comply with all industry standards, laws and regulawith the current Danish corporate governance recommendations. tions at all times. We will evaluate and audit them if the need NeuroSearch has therefore elected to give the Code of Conduct arises. an external focus on: Suppliers must give a representative of NeuroSearch access to • Supplier management their facilities and relevant data if the need arises. The supplier • Anti-corruption will receive advance notice in such cases. • Human rights and laboratory animal ethics Previous policies in these fields will be replaced by the Environmental rules NeuroSearch Code of Conduct. Our suppliers and business partners must comply with all This is the first version of the NeuroSearch Code of Conduct. It national requirements with respect to the environment and will be developed further and rolled out to the entire organisation climate, including: in 2012. • Environmental approvals • Correct handling and disposal of materials • Monitoring, control and treatment of waste from procedures and experiments Objective At NeuroSearch, we want to build our business on an ethical, legal and socially responsible foundation. We expect our suppliers and collaborative partners to share in this goal and comply with our code of conduct NeuroSearch suppliers must share the contents of this code with their employees and sub suppliers to ensure that social responsibility is an integral part of the entire NeuroSearch value chain. Suppliers must confirm that they comply with our code of conduct We understand that our global suppliers are subject to different laws and have different cultures, but as a minimum they must all comply with the rules set out in our code of conduct if they wish to be our suppliers CSR NEUROSEARCH 2011 11 • Training in health and safety in the work process or place • A reporting system for accidents and illness • Access to medical treatment and compensation for industrial injury • First aid kits available, along with training in first aid • Protection of employees from noise and air pollution, and compliance with all applicable standards for protective equipment and procedures • Clean and safe working conditions and sufficient air circulation • Employee access to drinking water and toilet facilities Laboratory animal rights and demands for clinical trials In connection with our animal and clinical trials, we demand complete openness and require that our contractors comply with Good Laboratory Practice (GLP). When we enter into academic research partnerships, it will not be a requirement that GLP is applied, but we do demand compliance with Danish Ministry of Justice rules on Reduction, Refinement and Replacement (RRR). NeuroSearch will also require of contractors that they conduct clinical trials in compliance with Good Clinical Practice and observe the Helsinki declaration and EU directive 2001/20/EC, both of which concern clinical trials. We expect that our suppliers and collaborative partners comply with national laws and regulations on labour standards and human rights, however subject to compliance with a minimum standard within the following areas: • N o child labour: NeuroSearch has a zero-tolerance policy with A supplier must ensure that raw materials and materials for respect to child labour experimental use are handled in the best possible manner. All • Certainty that interaction with health authorities, physicians, waste must be handled in a sustainable manner with due consipatient associations and other stakeholders is ethically deration for animals, humans and the environment. If required, irreproachable and is seen as such by the rest of the world the supplier must have an industry permit. • Payment for overtime and fulfilment of legal requirements with respect to benefits • No acceptance of discrimination on the basis of gender, Work environment ethnicity, sexual observance, religion or age • Treatment of humans with respect and dignity Our suppliers and collaborative partners must provide a safe and • Freedom of association and organisation for labour unions healthy work environment for their employees. A good work en• Respectful treatment of animals and compliance with the RRR vironment must be in place to minimise industrial accidents and definition health hazards. Health and safety work may follow the OHSAS • Documentation from our animal suppliers of valid accreditation 18001 management system, but must as a minimum fulfil the to ISO 9001 or by the US Assessment and Accreditation of following requirements: Laboratory Animal Care International (AAALAC) 12 NEUROSEARCH 2011 CSR Anti-corruption Commitment to the NeuroSearch Code of Conduct Transparency is the most important way to combat corruption. All NeuroSearch suppliers and collaborative partners will receive Our goal is to work towards a world free of corruption, including the Code of Conduct and must confirm in writing that they have extortion and bribery. We want our suppliers to apply an ethically read and understood it in its entirety and shared it with their correct and responsible approach to the following: relevant sub-suppliers. NeuroSearch is free to ask and seek information regarding compliance with the NeuroSearch Code of • In connection with supplier relationships in the pharmaceutical Conduct from the supplier or any other party in the value chain at industry, employers, physicians or patients may be offered a any time. gift. Gifts received or given by suppliers are not permitted to exceed the local triviality thresholds • At NeuroSearch, we condemn corruption, and it is vital that the company not be involved in any kind of corruption, extortion or bribery • We expect that our suppliers and collaborative partners have high ethical standards and always comply with national laws and regulations • Suppliers must not be involved in price cartels, price agreements, price discrimination, secret agreements or any other unfair agreements Goals for 2012 To implement the NeuroSearch Code of Conduct based on the UN Guiding Principles and to communicate its requirements and expectations to the entire value chain of the organisation To require that our suppliers comply with GLP, GCP and the Helsinki declaration To implement rules against corruption in connection with the performance of clinical trials sponsored by NeuroSearch CSR NEUROSEARCH 2011 13 14 NEUROSEARCH 2011 CSR NEUROSEARCH A/S TLF +45 4460 8000 PEDERSTRUPVEJ 93 FAX +45 4460 8080 www.neurosearch.com DK-2750 BALLERUP NS@NEUROSEARCH.COM DENMARK CVR.NR.: DK12546106 CSR NEUROSEARCH 2011 15
