Table of Contents Director General’s address 6 Calendar of events 2011 10 About the company Vodokanal history 11 Mission and values 17 Corporate management system 19 Vodokanal today 31 Risk management 41 Participation in external initiatives 47 Interaction with stakeholders 61 78 Results of activities in 2011 Water supply 79 Wastewater disposal 95 Specialized vehicles and equipment 111 Customer service 115 City fountains 129 Public toilets 131 134 Innovations Implementation of new technologies in the field of water 135 supply and wastewater disposal Development of hydraulic simulation 143 Patent work 145 IT development 147 Development of geoinformation system 151 Energy-saving and energy efficiency projects 157 158 Social responsibility Awareness building 159 Environment protection and labour safety 169 Personnel policy 175 Social policy 181 190 Tariff policy 196 Financial statements Main financial indicators of SUE “Vodokanal of St. Petersburg” 196 Balance sheet 198 Income statement 202 Audit report on financial statements 204 206 Contact information Director General’s Address Another important indicator is the percentWe carry on our awareness-building activities age of treated wastewater. In 2011, we could because implementation of new technologies already treat 94% of municipal sewage. It bealone can not ensure sustainable city developcame possible due to the ongoing construcment and environmental protection. We should tion of the Northern Tunnel Collector (in 2011 change the consciousness of people and we successfully passed the scoured zone and guide them to responsible attitude towards the eliminated five more direct discharges) and the nature. close down of seven small-capacity wastewater treatment plants—the sewage formerly collectOur priority task is to build solicitous attitude to ed by them was channeled to Northern WWTP water and natural resources. In 2011, we unto be treated in compliance with the Russian dertook a large-scale reconstruction of Vodoand international requirements. kanal’s Youth Environmental Centre. Now they offer different programmes, some of them deDear Ladies and Gentlemen, Likewise, much has been done in the field of signed for little children, while the unique mulwater supply. In 2011, the Kronstadt community timedia “stuffing” of the Centre and the interacgot a new water conduit to receive spring wative technologies used by the YEC personnel One basic princi ple followed by Vodokanal ter from the town of Lomonosov. Moreover, K-6 help us present to the children even the most St. Petersburg is not to rest at its laurels. And treatment block—one of the Russia’s cuttingcomplex issues in an interesting and enjoyable the year 2011 was no exception for us. edge facilities—has reached its full capacity way. since last year enabling us to rise to an utterly Traditionally, our museum complex The Uninew level of potable water production. verse of Water enjoys high popularity: it was visWe made a notable step towards ited by nearly 216,000 people in 2011. environmental safety of the city and the We are proud that the work of Vodokanal St. region in general. The automated chemical Petersburg is highly appreciated at the internaThere are new challenges facing us. The year dosing station for chemical phosphorus tional level. In 2011, our company became a fi2012 will be no less important in the history of nalist for the prestigious award of the European Vodokanal. In many respects, it is connected removal from wastewater was put into Foundation for Quality Management (EFQM)— with the adoption of the new federal law “On operation at Northern Wastewater Treatment Excellence Award-2011. We are the first EuroWater Supply and Wastewater Disposal” which Plant in the presence of the President of pean water company to achieve such result. was elaborated with direct involvement of VoFinland. Since June 2011, St. Petersburg has dokanal specialists and clearly defined the inIn 2011, we paid close attention to the customdustry development vector. fully met the recommendation of the Baltic er service function. Scrutinizing the customMarine Environment Protection Commission: ers’ needs and expectations we aim to have an phosphorus concentrations in the total volume open dialogue with each customer, and such Felix V. Karmazinov, of wastewater discharge do not exceed dialogue should be built on mutual respect and Director General understanding. SUE “Vodokanal of St. Petersburg” 0.5 mg/l. Calendar of Events 2011 January March April May June July The new block at South Water The technique phase began K-6 Block at South Water Parts of the tunneling maOn 1 June, International ChilThe photo exhibition “The UnTreatment Plant began to at one of the major facilities of Treatment Plant started opchine, which had been used dren’s Day, the celebration for derwater World of the Baltic provide St. Petersburg with the Northern Tunnel Collector erations at full capacity. to construct the missing NTC children and their parents was Sea” by the famous Finndrinking water. extension—at the pumping section, were transported to held in Vodokanal. ish photographer and diver station (URS). The tunneling of the most a storage place. Yukka Nurminen was held The new biomonitoring difficult collector section was Two renovated fountains in “The Universe of Water” system was implemented “The Universe of Water” successfully completed at the The interactive program for started working in Rumyantmuseum complex. at South-West Wastewater museum complex web-site depth of 70 m, in the scoured schoolchildren “Living Water” sevsky Garden on Vasilievsky Treatment Plant: African (Vodokanal Petersburg)— zone, from Arsenalnaya str. to was held at “The Universe Island. Vodokanal extended the biosnails monitor the flue gas www.vodokanal-museum.ru— Lenin Square. of Water” museum complex monitoring system: Australian composition from the sludge won the all-Russia corporate on the days of Great Victory With support of the Internetred-clawed crayfish estimate incineration plant. media contest “The best Vodokanal opened the founcelebration. portal da-voda.com the clean the quality of wastewater corporate media 2011” in tain season: the fountain “Ball” city event was held on the treatment at South-West The International Advanced nomination “Corporate Media. at 56 Nevsky pr. and the founThe Youth Environmental Morskaya Embankment waWastewater Treatment Plant. Water Technologies Centre Internet-portal ”. tain in Manezhnaya Square Centre of Vodokanal comterline at Admiralksy proezd. started its operation. It had were the first to start working pleted the project “One Drop SUE “Vodokanal of St. been created together with Vodokanal became the genin the city. Saves Another”. Hundreds The conference dedicated Petersburg” was among the Lahti Science and Business eral partner of St. Petersburg of guests—children, their to the 10th anniversary of the finalists of the prestigious Park (Finland). Environmental Week. A new phase of the city charity parents and teachers—gathNorthern Dimension Environprize of European Foundaprogram “Duty” began, under ered at the festive summary in ment Partnership (NDEP) was tion for Quality ManageOn 22 March, the World Water which Vodokanal installs the Information and Training held in Vodokanal. ment (EFQM)—Excellence Day, the meeting of the youth domestic water meters in Centre. Award-2011. Vodokanal of February committee on the environapartments of veterans of ООО “Vodokanal-Finans” St. Petersburg is the first ment was held within the World War II. Vodokanal received the made the first bond coupon European water company to The Government of St. Peframework of the 15th Confer100th hydrodynamic machine payment. achieve such a result. tersburg at its meeting ence based on the UN model Information and Training to wash networks. launched the Neva Water in the Information and Training Centre of Vodokanal hosted Petersburg began to fulfil Project for the reconstruction Centre of Vodokanal. The the VI Parade of Children’s “The Universe of Water” entirely the Helsinki Comof North Water Treatment. Youth Environmental Centre underwater movies “Aquafilm”. museum complex took part mission recommendations was the partner of the youth in the international event on the Baltic Sea protection: conference. “Museums at Night 2011”. phosphorus content in the Over 10,500 people visited total wastewater discharge The Youth Environmental the museum in a night. doesn’t exceed 0.5 mg/l. At Centre launched environNorthern Wastewater Treatmental and educational The regional program “Clean ment Plant the inauguration project designed speWater of St. Petersburg” for ceremony was held dedicated cially for school children: 2011-2025 was approved at to this event with participation Water + Myself = Friends! a meeting of the Government of the President of Finland of St. Petersburg. Tarja Halonen. Vodokanal was recognized as Vodokanal St. Petersburg the best taxpayer according was one of the winners of the to results of 2010. international quality award European Standard. August September able Production in Vodokanal. 94% of wastewater is treated November December It combined the students’ in St. Petersburg. It was The fourth International FesVodokanal celebrated the works on sustainable deprovided by connecting The State Duma approved in Petersburg scientists’ intival of Tea and Coffee was Day of Knowledge. Festive velopment and energy from five direct discharges to the third reading the federal novative project for creating held in St. Petersburg with the events for schoolchildren and Russia, Germany, Mexico and the Northern Tunnel Collaw “On Water Supply and the biomonitoring system support of Vodokanal. first-year students of the VoChina. lector and closuring seven Sanitation” developed with at South-West Wastewater cational School No. 89 were small-capacity wastewater direct participation of experts Treatment Plant won the prize The main work on the Youth held in the Information and treatment plants (the sewage from Vodokanal of St. Petersof the Government of St. PeEnvironmental Centre renoTraining Centre. October formerly collected by them burg. tersburg. vation was completed. was channeled to Northern A new fountain on the occaThe Governor of St. PetersWWTP). Animals-bioindicators moniInternet-portal Da-Voda sion of the tercentenary of burg Georgy Poltavchenko toring the quality of treated (da-voda.com) working Oranienbaum-Lomonosov visited the construction of the Vodokanal got A.N. Kosygin wastewater were replaced with support of Vodokanal was opened in Lomonosov. NTC extension. Prize from the Russian Union at South-West Wastewater of St. Petersburg won the of Manufactures. Treatment Plant. The slender prestigious international A new water conduit (inverted The exhibition of creative clawed crayfish started to contest in public relasiphon) was laid along the works by Company employees Vodokanal took part in the Inwork instead of Australian tions PROBA-IPRA Golden bottom of the Gulf of Finland, “The power of life” was opened ternational exhibition of green red-clawed crayfish in winter World Awards-2011 in the through which spring water is in Vodokanal. technologies Cleantech time. nomination The Best Social supplied from Lomonosov to Expo-2011 in Lahti (Finland). PR-Project. Kronstadt. This water conduit The environmental and eduThe Governor of St. Petersreplaced the old one, which cational project for primary burg held a working meeting Vodokanal’s sports team had served over thirty years. school children “The Baltic at South Water Treatment won the sports contest FSO Regatta” started in the Youth Plant. “Russia”. Vodokanal participated in the Environmental Centre. traditional parade of vehicles Summit of UNESCO AssociVodokanal participated in the owned by companies of engi“The Universe of Water” took ated Schools was held in the charity action “Fir of Wishes” neering and energy complex part in the city program “ChilYouth Environmental Centre dedicated to the Power Engiand housing and utility sector dren’s Days in St. Petersburg”, of Vodokanal. neers’ Day. in St. Petersburg. having developed special exhibition routes for kids of Results of the educational Video installation “The Neva different ages. project for schoolchildren River Banks” created by the “Water + Myself = Friends” German artist Filipp Geist was A group of volunteers from were summed up and the opened in the Information the St. Petersburg branch of book of children’s works and Training Centre. Greenpeace visited South“Letters to Waterdrop” was West Wastewater Treatment represented. The presentation of the Plant. students’ project NEGA-Resources Approach: Minimum Efforts for the Maximum Result was held within the framework of the IX International Congress on SustainVodokanal History The history of the city’s centralized water sup“ladle” proved to be unsuitable for this pur11 ply goes back to 10 October, 1858, when the pose, and the JSC had to arrange water intake Charter of “St. Petersburg Water Pipelines from the Neva. Joint-Stock Company” was approved by the Russian Emperor Alexander II. Before mid-1870es, the water network was Among the founders of the Joint-Stock Comonly used by the citizens on the left-bank side. pany were engineers, such as A.N. Erakov, The new joint-stock company (Partnership) P.I. Palibin, E.I. Okel, A.A. Peretz, and prominent was established in 1873 (to be managed by businessmen—I.I. Glazunov, M.I. Yakunchikov, English contractors) to supply water to PeterI.N. Kushinnikov. burgskaya (Petrogradskaya) and Vyborgskaya areas. 1858–1917 In 1890 the State Duma took a decision to buy The JSC faced huge financial and technical out the assets owned by the St. Petersburg problems at the initial stage. In early 1863, Water Pipelines Joint-Stock Company, and in the construction of water networks was, 1892—to buy out also the assets of the New practically, suspended. By then, the water Water Networks Partnership. The City Executive tower in Shpalernaya st. (architects I.A. Merz Commission for water supply of St. Petersburg and E. Shubersky) has been built and several was established to manage the water networks kilometers of water distribution networks and was subordinated to the city administrahave been laid. The JSC’s registered capital tion. The manager of city water networks was was spent, the shares sold badly, and even appointed on a submission from the chairman About the Company // Vodokanal History the government subsidy could not alter the of the Executive Commission. situation. In March 1863, the 1 Guild merchant A.I. Kron from St. Petersburg joined the JSC, During the first decades of the centralized contributed the lacking sum (approximately, water supply operation in St. Petersburg all 900,000 Rubles) and took up completion of customers received water which passed only the long-drawn works. coarse mechanical treatment. In 1889 sand filters were put into operation at the Main WaterAbout the Water supply to the first customers started by the end of 1863. works (the filters had been built by the St. Petersburg Water Pipelines Joint-Stock Company as strongly demanded by the city authorities). Company Some modifications were made to the initial design during the construction period. At first, In 1911 the filtration station with water ozonait was decided to take water from a sort of a “lation was built in Peterburgskaya (Petrogradskadle”—the artificial water body near Tavrichesky ya) area. Chlorine disinfection of drinking water Palace connected with the Neva. However, the was implemented at the Main Waterworks (the Over the period between 1950 and 1970 the annual average water supply to the city had grown more than twice. first chlorination experiments were made in and modernization of the Main Waterworks 12 lowed by discharge to four channels of the city centre including the Main Pumping Station 13 Kronstadt in 1909). The Executive Commission treatment facilities should be mentioned. In Neva Bay. Stormwater was to be discharged was put into operation in 1958. for sewerage construction and water supply re1923-1924 construction of sewer networks was to all watercourses in the city. It was planned In 1966 the General Scheme of Leningrad habilitation in St. Petersburg established by the resumed. In 1925 the city authorities approved to use the tunneling method to build the main Sewerage was approved which included, City Duma had worked since 1911 and took the major sewerage plans for Leningrad sewers. among other things, three big complexes of over most of the functions in relation to water (separate system with four independent sewer wastewater treatment facilities. The first one— supply development. basins). Vasilyevsky Island was selected as A special page in Vodokanal’s history is related Central WWTP—was put into operation in 1978 experimental district for the construction to World War II and the blockade of Leningrad. (stage I). Before that, all city wastewater was The Soviet period of a new sewerage system. Construction of The waterworks and facilities, clean water discharged to the water bodies almost without sew­ ers in Vasilyevsky Island (total length of tanks, treatment plants, water networks and any treatment. The Central WWTP, stage II, was World War I and the Civil War had a negative street networks—153.3 km) had lasted for sewers were subject to intensive bombings put into operation in 1984, and the Northern impact on the technical condition of the city’s 10 years. Vasileostrovskaya sewage pumping and shelling. As many as 955 shells exploded WWTP, stage I,—in 1987. The construction of water supply system, including its plants, station was completed by 1930. Wastewater within the area of the Southern WTP alone. the South-West WWTP started in 1986. SUE “Vodokanal of St. Petersburg” // Sustainability Report 2011 equipment and networks. In 1920s-early was discharged to the Neva Bay without any The personnel of the most important facilities 1930s wood pipes were sometimes used for treatment. were put on a war footing. Destruction of construction of water networks due to the lack networks caused the flooding of basements, Contemporary history of more suitable materials. It was only by 1935 In the 1930s more and more sewers were streets and squares and sometimes even the that the pre-revolution level of water supply to built in other city districts. The length of sewer whole city districts. Nevertheless, both the In the 1990s, SUE «Vodokanal of St. Peters­ the city network had been reached. networks in Leningrad reached 1130 km which city water networks and the sewerage system burg» developed and implemented a novelexceeded twice the pre-revolutionary level. In were working without interruption except 25-26 for-Russia concept of strategic planning of However, there were also some achievements 1940 a new sewerage scheme of Leningrad January 1942 when the electricity supply was the public utilities’ financial operations and at that time. First of all, construction of the was adopted. It was also based on a separate cut off. business. Creation of a management system About the Company // Vodokanal History Southern Waterworks (stage I was put into sewerage system. The scheme envisaged based on the corporate development planning operation in 1933, a part of stage II—in 1940) mechanical treatment and precipitation fol­ Over the period between 1950 and 1970 the was a crucial step to implementation of this annual average water supply to the city had concept in the company. grown more than twice—from 912,800 m3 to 2,057,600 m3. The Southern WTP stage II It is the implementation of the strategic planning was put into operation in 1948, Volkovskaya concept that ensured sustainable development WTP—in 1964, and the Northern WTP of SUE “Vodokanal of St. Petersburg”. In stage I—in 1971. Wide-scale construction of 1992 the company was able to become selfwater pumping stations was underway too. In sufficient and raise the necessary investments 1952 the State Committee of the Council of for reconstruction and development. In 2004, Ministers of the USSR approved the project the St. Petersburg Water and Wastewater of sewerage construction in the central part Systems Reconstruction and Development of Leningrad where a combined sewerage Programme for 2004-2011 was worked out. system was proposed instead of separate The South-West WWTP was inaugurated on sewerage. The first stage of sewerage in the 22 September 2005 in the presence of the n 2011, St. Petersburg was finally crossed out from the list of Baltic Sea polluters. President of the Russian Federation V.V. Putin, of the jubilee year was the commissioning of 14 In June 2010, one of the biggest plants— then the city has fully met the HELCOM 15 the President of Finland Tarja Halonen and the the first section of Northern Tunnel Collector Southern WTP started pre-commissioning of recommendations on wastewater treatment Swedish Prime-Minister Göran Persson. extension. its new water treatment block designed for quality: phosphorus concentrations in the 350,000 m3/day of potable water production total wastewater volume discharged in St. Pe­ Alongside with the construction of new facilities The year 2009 was marked by the 20th (water supply to the city from this block began tersburg do not exceed 0.5 mg/l. The official using the best advanced technologies, wideanniversary of cooperation with the Ministry in January 2011). ceremony marking the completion of the scale reconstruction of the existing WWTPs of the Environment of Finland. “The Baltic. Clean Baltic Sea Project was held at Northern was implemented. By 2006, three “hot spots” Common Sea, Common Concern” Conference In 2010, Vodokanal summarized the results of WWTP in June in the presence of the President in the Baltic Sea catchment basin have been was dedicated to this date. the pilot project aimed to create a water supply of Finland Tarja Halonen. eliminated. The reconstruction of the Central management system and started to implement WWTP in 2007 made it possible to meet, and In June 2009, the official ceremony of the the system in the southern districts of the city. In 2011, Vodokanal expanded its biomonitoring even surpass the HELCOM standards of nutrient last chlorine container removal from Northern system by implementing it at wastewater concentrations. By commissioning two sludge Water Treatment Plant symbolized that By the end of 2010, the next stage of treatment plants: since the beginning of the SUE “Vodokanal of St. Petersburg” // Sustainability Report 2011 incineration plants—at the Northern WWTP and Vodokanal stopped using liquid chlorine for Northern Tunnel Collector Extension has year the composition of flue gases at the South-West WWTP—in 2007, St. Petersburg water disinfection replacing it with hazard-free been completed, and the official ceremony South-West incineration plant has been became the first megalopolis to fully solve the sodium hypochlorite. of connecting 12 more direct discharges to monitored by African snails, and since July the problem of sewage sludge utilization. In December 2009, the second stage of the Collector was held in January 2011. As effluent quality at South-West treatment plant Northern Tunnel Collector Extension was a result, the wastewater treatment level in the has been checked by Australian red-claw In 2008, Vodokanal St. Petersburg celebrated completed which enabled to reach 91% of city reached 93%. crayfish. its 150th anniversary. One of the biggest events wastewater treatment. In 2011, Vodokanal could already treat 94% In 2011, Vodokanal St. Petersburg became one of all wastewater having re-channeled five of the finalists for the prestigious award of the About the Company // Vodokanal History direct discharges to Northern Tunnel Collector European Foundation for Quality Management and closed down seven small WWTPs (the (EFQM)—Excellence Award-2011. wastewater formerly collected by them was rechanneled to Northern WWTP). The ceremony In November 2011, the State Duma adopted dedicated to this event was attended by the in the third reading the federal law “On Water Governor of St. Petersburg G.S. Poltavchenko. Supply and Wastewater Disposal” which was elaborated with direct involvement of In 2011, St. Petersburg was finally crossed Vodokanal specialists. out from the list of Baltic Sea polluters. Since Mission and Values 17 Mission Vision Provision of high-quality water and sanitation serWe see Vodokanal among the world’s best provices ensuring good quality of life for customers, viders of water and sanitation services due to the sustainable development of the megapolis, crequality of its services and environmental awareation of water consumption culture and conserness. vation of the Baltic Sea water environment. Values Responsibility before Responsibility before Openness to the public future generations the staff and responsibility beCareful and efficient use of Continuous improvement of fore the society natural resources including labour safety, good salaries Transparency of the company water, energy, forests, etc. and wages, social security for activities, access to reliable the company employees and information on the company their families, and for the rework and history, close conAbout the Company // Mission and Values Responsibility before tired employees. tacts with the mass media, the customers educational institutions and Continuous studies of the public and environmental orcustomers’ expectations and Innovative approach ganizations—all that constirequirements, improvement of Incorporation of international tutes the basis of our informacustomer interaction procebest practice in the company tion policy. dures to raise the level of satmanagement, the use of adisfaction with the water and vanced technologies and cresanitation services. ation of know-how in different fields of activities—that is the only way to reach success and to be a leading company. Corporate Management System Corporate management system building philosophy Corporate management of SUE “Vodokanal 19 of St. Petersburg” is based on the following principles: Accountability The company’s executive body shall be accountable to the owner (City of St. Petersburg), the state authorities and control bodies in compliance with the applicable law. The company shall ensure timely disclosure of reTransparency liable information on any material facts in relation to its activities, including its financial standing, social and environmental performance and operatAbout the Company // Corporate Management System ing results, as well as provide free access to such information for all stakeholders in compliance with the law of the Russian Federation. Responsibility The company shall acknowledge the rights of all stakeholders as provided by the applicable law and seek collaboration with the stakeholders to reach the company goals and to maintain financial sustainability and social stability. The company will only reach its goal provided that Efficiency each employee—from director general to ordinary officer—works efficiently. Overview According to the results of 2011, Vodokanal of management was among finalists of the prestigious award by the European Foundation for approaches Quality Management (EFQM)—Excellence Award-2011. In accordance with the Charter of the Company tem ISO-27001 and Energy Management Sys20 The following management approaches are used by SUE “Vodokanal 21 the Director General is the sole executive body tem ISO-50001. of St. Petersburg” to improve its operations: of the company. The Director General ensures Vodokanal’s corporate governance system is the implementation of principles of corporate continuously developing and improving due to company governance and the further developstrategic initiatives of the company managestrategic planning; of management systems under the ment of the corporate governance practice. ment and the owner—City of St. Petersburg. In standards МС ISO 9001, 14001 and 2011, the ideology of EFQM (European Founprocess approach to the Company OHSAS 18001; The Company has its scientific technical coundation for Quality Management) model had management; cil being an advisory body. The council scrutia significant impact on the development and benchmarking and comparison with the nizes various matters in relation to the develimprovement of the company’s management. self-assessment according to the best European water companies; opment of water and sanitation systems in St. EFQM (European Foundation for Quality Petersburg, issues relevant recommendations According to the results of the corporate govManagement) Excellence Model; sociological studies of public awareness and reviews the results of research and deernance assessment of SUE “Vodokanal of St. and expectations; SUE “Vodokanal of St. Petersburg” // Sustainability Report 2011 velopment. In 2011, in the company structure Petersburg” updated in 2011 by EXPERT RA assessment of customer and a new branch appeared, the main task of which Rating Agency, the rating level 7+ was conpersonnel satisfaction, the operation annual public reports. is to develop and implement the common polifirmed. That is a high ranking in the class “Decy of water and wastewater development. veloped practice of corporate governance”. About the Company // Corporate Management System SUE “Vodokanal of St. Petersburg” meets the The system of corporate company governance requirements of Russian legislation on corpoSince 2005, Vodokanal has been making selfSelf-assessment and assessors’ recommen­ is built relying on principles and approaches rate governance, follows the majority of recomassessment of its activities under the regional dations specified in the feedback report enset in the international standards: ISO 9001 mendations of the Russian Corporate Conduct model of Business Excellence, which is harmoabled to analyze attentively the company Quality Management System, ISO 14001 EnCode and separate recommendations of internized with the EFQM model. According to the management. Most of assessors’ recommenvironmental Management System and OHnational corporate governance best practice. results of 2006, Vodokanal became the windations were included into the Management SAS-18001 Occupational Health and Safety The Company is characterized by low risks of ner of the Russian Government’s Quality prize Improvement Program for the coming years. System. In 2011, active attention was paid to owner losses related to the governance quality. contest in quality. Since 2009, the Company the development of Information Security Syshas been using the EFQM criteria for self-asRelying on its own experience, the experience sessment. Vodokanal of St. Petersburg has got of foreign and domestic companies that opera certificate acknowledging that its corporate ate in water supply and sanitation, SUE “Vomanagement system complies with the Recdokanal of St. Petersburg” is developing the ognized for Excellence level according to the concept of Ideal Water Company. Today it is EFQM criteria. formulated in the Company Strategic Plan and In 2010, SUE “Vodokanal of St. Petersburg” deals with all areas of activity: interaction with won the International Quality Contest of Centhe consumer, development and management tral and Eastern Europe. of water supply and wastewater, environment and society, financial stability and investments, According to the results of 2011, Vodokanal development and social support of the perwas among finalists of the prestigious award by sonnel. The content and form of the concept of the European Foundation for Quality ManageIdeal Water Company is reviewed according to ment (EFQM)—Excellence Award-2011. the results of self-assessment over the previThe performance management process for water supply and sanitation services is based on Deming-Shewhart-Tailor cycle (PDCA): 22 23 ous year taking into account external factors, physical and chemical parameters set out Plan (P) including new legislation, metropolitan city dein the current regulatory documents; velopment prospects and consumer expectaTarget process indicators are planned for the next year before it betions. the limiting number of breakdowns in wagins, on the basis of the strategic indicators, required resources and ter distribution networks per 10 km of netresult analysis of the previous year. The cause-and-effect relationThe Total Quality Management (TQM) apworks per year; ships between the approaches applied and the results we want to proaches are used by Vodokanal to improve its achieve are determined at this phase. management of business-processes (TQM). the limiting number of registered complaints about low water head at water Since 2009, the significant attention has been supply facilities; paid to the issues of system benchmarking implementation with the best water companies percentage of reducing water distribution Do (D) SUE “Vodokanal of St. Petersburg” // Sustainability Report 2011 in Europe and development of corporate social losses; responsibility. The service is provided; daily operational indicators are monitored at the limiting duration of the consumer disall process levels. At this phase, management is limited to ensuring In parallel with the process improvement Vodoconnection from water supply services. the achievement of tactical (monthly) targets. About the Company // Corporate Management System kanal is upgrading its set of indicators for strategic and on-line monitoring of processes. The Improvement of the maintenance system, reassessment tools are: internal and external auconstruction activities allowed to increase the dit of management systems; self-assessment reliability of the distribution network and deaccording to excellence models and corpocrease the incident rates. Check (C) rate management rating criteria. Performance indicators are monitored by means of special The key performance indicators of The progress of achieving performance indicators is checked using indicator sets. The process performance monithe sanitation service process are: the daily and weekly data. toring by (strategic, tactical and real-time) indicators is implemented at different managecompliance of wastewater treatment qua­ ment levels. lity with the regulatory target values; Act (A) The key performance indicators of the limiting number of sewer blockages the water supply service process are: (clogging) per 10 km of sewer networks The progress of achieving tactical targets and the reasons for deviaper year. tion from targets are analyzed, and the necessary corrective actions compliance of potable water quality in are worked out at weekly working meetings. Such actions help adjust the water distribution networks with the the existing approaches to achieve the targets. Corporate culture This performance management process is cesses by the Vodokanal management. More24 The main provisions of corporate culture adopted by SUE 25 car­ ri­ ed out by process owners both at the over, the analysis of process performance is “Vodokanal of St. Petersburg” are set out in the company company and branch levels. on the agenda of quarterly Board meetings where the progress towards the achievement standard STO Vodokanal SPB 1.4-2010 Management system. Following the results of internal audits under of targets is scrutinized. Code of Corporate Ethics. EMS and QMS, the areas for process management improvement are identified. Annually, the The results of analysis are used to identify arEMS and QMS manager issues an analytical eas for improvement, work out the necessary The company employees follow the corporate 2. Professionalism and teamwork report about the functioning of EMS and QMS corrective measures and actions to improve values (see Mission and Value), support and Vodokanal’s employees are professionals. for the top management, this report being one the existing approaches for the purpose of develop the corporate culture necessary to They build their relations with colleagues of the tools to analyze the performance of proachieving strategic targets. achieve the highest activity level. on the basis of thrust, cooperation, corporate solidarity, mutual assistance. EmployCompany values are mandatory for all Vodoees take a proactive position in teamwork SUE “Vodokanal of St. Petersburg” // Sustainability Report 2011 kanal employees and are offered to everybody focusing on the joint activity result. Those who cooperates with Vodokanal. employees who are capable to improve the company performance are provided Company ethical principles are based on the career progress and confidence in imporAbout the Company // Corporate Management System corporate values, observation of laws, emtant project implementation. ployees’ and Vodokanal partners’ rights. They are the basis for regulation of relations within 3. Strategic flexibility the company and business relations with partVodokanal operates in conditions of state ners and consumers, including the conduct regulated tariffs and price volatility for supin situations related to the potential conflict of pliers’ products that has a significant influinterests. ence on activities to implement the company strategy. Among these principles: 4. Social responsibility 1. Focus on value creation The company is responsible for the social Vodokanal’s employees in their activities well-being of its employees. The value are guided by the company strategy and created by Vodokanal’s employees signifitry to fulfill the key strategic objectives. By cantly contributes to improving the living fulfilling the actions, Vodokanal employstandards of St. Petersburg citizens, the ees realize the value they bring to customBaltic Sea region and society in general. ers, the company and society in general. Improvement Company of business structure processes in 2011 To create an effective management system, functions of each District are generation and 26 SUE “Vodokanal of St. Petersburg” is headed by its Director 27 in 2007 the detailed analysis of Vodokanal’s management of its water balance; responsiGene­ral—Felix V. Karmazinov. business processes was carried out with their bility levels from administration to Districts are further optimization based on the process clearly defined that allows to say about the In 2011, SUE “Vodokanal of St. Petersburg” management approach and principles of the next level of corporate governance system comprised 9 branches: quality management system. development. As a result of reengineering, two 1st level busiIn 2011, the formation of the water supply and St. Petersburg Water Supply ness processes were defined—Water Supply wastewater disposal system in St. Petersburg in St. Petersburg and Wastewater Disposal in continued. Changes were made in the comSt. Petersburg Wastewater Disposal St. Petersburg that have the basic managepany administration—in the top management ment elements: process owners, processing level, where the development strategy is genTransport and Logistics chain, monitoring points and cost structure. erated and interaction with the external enviSUE “Vodokanal of St. Petersburg” // Sustainability Report 2011 The results obtained allowed to see the comronment is made, target and technical-andEngineering and Innovation Centre pany, as well as its strengths and weaknesses economic company indicators, revenue and in a new way. expenditure budgets, tariff policy are defined. Customer Service Centre Separate water supply and wastewater disAbout the Company // Corporate Management System It the years 2008-2010 that followed, the imposal structures were organized in the comInvestment Programs Implementation plementation of activities related to the busipany financial and economical administration Centre ness process reengineering became compreblock. hensive and system-defined. Managers of all Socio-Economic Programs Implementation levels studied the functional of business units The separate branch “Engineering InnovaCentre and every single employee, identified information Centre” was created on the basis of tion flows, revised objectives and main tasks. existing administration units as well. Information and Training Centre By the end of 2010, a number of supporting Its activities are aimed at achieving the followMedical Centre business processes had been reengineered. ing objectives: As a result, a separate Transport and Logistics Branch and a fundamentally new structure for the development and implementation customer service, including administrative and of the common policy of water supply branch organization units, were established. and wastewater disposal systems of the Company; Vodokanal continued to optimize the main production processes. It was decided to improve the development of consulting activities, the production branches by organizing within establishment of the single information them separate business units—water supspace of the Company. ply (wastewater disposal) districts. Today, the SUE “Vodokanal of St. Petersburg” Organizational Chart (as of 01.01.2012) Chief Accountant Accounting Department Construction Supervision Property Department Department Information and Deputy Director General Investment Programs Public Relations for Capital Construction Implementation Department and Investments Centre Branch Investment Planning Bureau Senior Project Manager 29 Wastewater Disposal Management Quality Economy Department Economy Department Bureau Deputy Director General Transport and Logistics Director General for Economy and Finance Branch Water Supply Economy Financial Department Internal Inspection Department St. Petersburg Wastewater Disposal Branch Online Control and Emergency Energy and Engineering Response Bureau Support Bureau St. Petersburg Water Deputy Director General Supply Branch for Production Engineering Innovation Technical Director Centre Branch About the Company // Corporate Management System Development Projects Contract Relations Director Department Methodology Bureau General’s Office Deputy Director General for Development Projects Order Regulation Bureau Insurance Department Socio-Economic Programs Implementation Centre Civil Defense, ExtraBranch Ordinary Situations and Intellectual Property Bureau Personnel Department Company Mobilization Insp. Deputy Director General Medical Centre Branch Security Department OHSAS and Production Sanitary Epidemiological Inspection Inspection Information and Training Centre Branch Legal Department First Deputy Customer Service Director General Centre Branch Customer Service Environmental Management Methodology Department Department Vodokanal Today Company profile The State Unitary Enterprise (SUE) “Vodokanal Vodokanal provides its services to the city in31 of St. Petersburg” provides water and sanitahabitants (approx. 4.8 Mio. people) and many tion services to the City of St. Petersburg. It thousands of companies and organizations in is the country’s biggest public utility and one St. Petersburg. of the key municipal companies in St. Petersburg. As of 31.12.2011, the staff of SUE “Vodokanal of St. Petersburg” numbered 9,173 people. Vodokanal’s assets are owned by the City of St. Petersburg represented by the authorized public authorities. The water supply system The wastewater disposal system comprises: comprises: 6,665.2 km of water networks; 8,245.6 km of sewer networks; 200 boosting pumping stations; 232.17 km of tunnel collectors; 9 water treatment plants (the biggest are 131 sewage pumping stations; Southern WTP, Northern WTP and Main WTP); 14 wastewater treatment plants (the bigAbout the Company // Vodokanal Today gest are Central WWTP, Northern WWTP 2 sodium hypochlorite production plants. and South-West WWTP); 3 sludge incineration plants. The most important events in 2011 Vodokanal has an effective customer feedVodokanal has charge of the city fountains and back system. Since 2004, a round-the-clock public toilets. Hot Line has been in operation where one can get any information about the company activiMoreover, Vodokanal gives much attention to ties. education. It has its Information and Training Centre which comprises “The Universe of WaCall the Hot Line: +7 (812) 305-09-09 ter” museum complex and the Youth Environ1. mental Centre. 32 Petersburg was taken out from the list of the Baltic Sea 33 polluters. The City to the fullest extent complies with Main achievements of SUE the recommendations of the Helsinki Commission on the “Vodokanal of St. Pters­ Main achievements of SUE Baltic Marine Environment Protection (HELCOM). burg” in the field of water “Vodokanal of St. Peters­ The Clean Baltic Sea Project started in 2005. pated in the official ceremony on the start-up of treatment: burg” in the field of It was targeted to the introduction of the enthe chemical dosing system. wastewater treatment: hanced phosphorus removal from wastewater all potable water supplied to the city at the largest wastewater treatment plants of Since June 2011, St. Petersburg to the full exis UV-treated to ensure epidemiologic around 94% of all wastewater is treated St. Petersburg. Commissioning of the stationtent has complied with the new recommendasafety; in St. Petersburg; the percentage will be ary automated chemical dosing system at the tions of the Helsinki Commission on the Baltic 98% by 2016; Northern Wastewater Treatment Plant on June Marine Environment Protection and phospholiquid chlorine is not used for water dis28, 2011 was the last stage of the said project. rus concentrations in the total volume of city SUE “Vodokanal of St. Petersburg” // Sustainability Report 2011 infection, it is replaced by hazard-free, Petersburg has solved the sludge disThe President of Finland Tarja Halonen particiwastewater discharge do not exceed 0.5 mg/l. non-toxic sodium hypochlorite; posal problem: three sludge incineration plants are in operation in the city; 2. hazard-free and non-toxic ammonia sulThe next stage under the Programme for the Closure fate is used for water ammonation inPetersburg fulfils the HELCOM recomof the Untreated Wastewater Discharges was completed. stead of ammonia solutions; mendations; phosphorus concentrations It gave an opportunity to treat 94% of wastewater in in the total volume of the city wastewater St. Petersburg. water condition in the Neva is checked by discharge do not exceed 0.5 mg/l; means of a biomonitoring system where On October 29, 2011 wastewater from smallToday, wastewater from the closed discharges crayfish act as chief inspectors; biomonitoring systems are implemented capacity wastewater treatment plants was is transported by the sewer collector for treatAbout the Company // Vodokanal Today to control the effluent quality (by means connected to the sewer network of the Northment at Northern WWTP. PAC (powdered activated carbon) dosing of crayfish) and the quality of flue gas ern Wastewater Treatment Plant (the Northern is implemented to remove odors and oil; from the sludge incineration plant (by WWTP). Seven small wastewater treatment At Northern WWTP all wastewater undermeans of snails). plants were closed. Five untreated wastewater goes efficient treatment in line with all curthe pilot project on the establishment of discharges located along the Arsenalnaya and rent requirement, including the HELCOM water supply management system is imVyborgskaya Embankments were liquidated. recommendations. plemented in the catchment area of the Uritskaya pumping station (the Southern 3. Water Supply Zone). Since January 2011, the new water treatment block at the Southern WTP began to supply water to the city. K-6 block reached its full capacity in April. It is one of the Russia’s most advanced treatNeva River, which is the water source. It means ment blocks. Technological solutions that were that it can provide absolutely safe and harmless used during design and construction enable potable water in accordance with all Russian coping with any changes of water quality in the and international regulations. 7. The block was commissioned in June 2010. In supplied volumes. Since April 2011, the block The Russian State Duma approved the Federal Law “On January 2011 it began to supply water to the reached its design capacity 350,000 cubic meWater Supply and Sanitation”. municipal customers—with gradual increase of ters per day. The new Federal Law was developed with the law. The adoption of the Federal Law “On Waactive participation of the experts of Vodoter Supply and Sanitation” gives a new urge for 4. The new (inverted siphon) pipeline was laid at the bottom kanal of St. Petersburg. Until now water comthe water sector development. of the Gulf of Finland, by which potable water is panies have not had their own industry-based supplied by gravity from Lomonosov to Kronstadt. This pipeline replaced the old one that had been in operation 8. for more than thirty years. Vodokanal became a finalist of the prestigious European Foundation for Quality Management (EFQM) award— Standard operation time of the previous inof the South Water Supply Zone Control Com34 Excellence Award-2011. 35 verted siphon was exhausted during the thirtyplex. The new inverted siphon consists of two year period. As the result, the reliability of walines (7.5 km each). It is laid at the depth of Vodokanal of St. Petersburg is the first Euroindicates the high level of the company manter supply in Kronstadt reduced significantly. To 23 meters. The horizontal directional drilling pean company of the water sector to become agement confirmed by European experts. solve the problem a new pipeline construction technology was used and it was the first expethe award finalist. The award finalist status for supply of spring water from Lomonosov to rience of its use in Russia. Kronstadt began. This pipeline formed a part 9. International Advanced Water Technologies Centre, a joint project of SUE “Vodokanal of St. Petersburg” and 5. The tunneling of the most complicated section of the Lahti Science and Business Park (Finland), began its work. Northern Tunnel Collector in the scoured zone, from Arsenalnaya Street to Lenin Square, was successfully completed. The main objective of the International Adtechnologies implementation in the sphere of SUE “Vodokanal of St. Petersburg” // Sustainability Report 2011 vanced Water Technologies Centre is the orwater supply and sanitation, environment proOn 14 April 2011, the tunneling of the extenused, which is able to operate in two modes. ganization of international cooperation in the tection and sustainable water use. The Centre sion of the Northern Tunnel Collector was In order to complete the most complicated sphere of sustainable development and water promotes innovations in the area of applied completed, and the tunneling machine passed tunnel section the shield operated in the hyresource management. The Centre provides technologies, as well as in the water managethe last section of the second line located in draulic counterweight mode. This technology the ground for sharing experience in advanced ment. the scoured zone. The tunnel section from Arwith water injection and 7 atm. pressure cresenalnaya Street to Lenin Square, 1.2 km long, ation in the bottomhole enables to withstand was the most complicated because of the the ground water pressure. scoured zone. To tunnel the missing section a unique Herrenknecht (Germany) shield was About the Company // Vodokanal Today 6. Biomonitoring system was implemented at the SouthWest Wastewater Treatment Plant. Australian red-claw crayfish monitor wastewater treatment quality, and African snails monitor flue gases composition from the sludge incineration plant. In 2011, Vodokanal enlarged significantly the tists of St. Petersburg were awarded with the biomonitoring system and implemented it at prize of the Government of St. Petersburg for wastewater treatment plants. Since Januthe development of the innovative wastewaary 2011, the composition of flue gases from ter treatment quality monitoring project. FurSWTP SIP has been monitored by the African thermore, the wastewater is “guarded” by two snails. Since July 2011, the quality of wastetypes of crayfish; in autumn thermophilous water treatment at SWTP has been monitored Australian red-clawed crayfish are replaced by by the Australian red-clawed crayfish. Scienslender-clawed river crayfish. Investments Under the investment program, Vodokanal invested RUR 1,480.1 Mio. The amount of RUR 6,100.6 Mio. has been invested in the wastewater disin the water supply system. posal and treatment system. in 2011 Investments in the water Investments in the wastewater disposal supply system, Mio. Rubles and treatment system Mio. Rubles 49.3 164.6 55.9 91.5 670.3 Investment activity of Vodokanal is performed in accordance with 36 37 the Investment Program developed and approved for the three-year period under the current laws. 366.1 1,077.4 Mio. Rubles Mio. Rubles 4,195.5 Investment program objectives are divided in In wastewater disposal sector they are as folaccordance with the core production activities lows: 973.2 of Vodokanal. reduction of wastewater disposal system In water supply sector they are as follows: negative impact on the environment; rehabilitation and development of water distribution closure of untreated wastewater discharges networks rehabilitation and development of sewers provision of safe potable water to St. Peprovision of reliable wastewater disposal production bases, purchase of equipment, security upgrading of wastewater treatment plants tersburg customers; services; systems etc. production bases, purchase of equipment, security improvement of energy efficiency of water supply SUE “Vodokanal of St. Petersburg” // Sustainability Report 2011 provision of reliable water services to the improvement of energy efficiency of systems etc. facilities customers; waste­­water disposal facilities; improvement of energy efficiency of wastewater development of big-capacity water treatment plants disposal facilities improvement of energy efficiency of waprovision of access to the centralized ter supply facilities; wastewater disposal services. The amount of RUR 185.8 Mio. has been invested in the development of the city infrastructure (public toilets and fountains) and for the social needs. provision of access to the centralized water supply services. Investments from different The cost of work carried out in water and wastewater systems of St. Petersburg in 2011 by the order of sources, Mio. Rubles Employer’s Office amounted to 4,783.8 Mio. Rubles and was financed from the St. Petersburg budget. Vodokanal personnel inspected the quality of construction and installation throughout the year. About the Company // Vodokanal Today The amount of RUR 12,550.4 Mio. was 497.9 invested in the development and reha869.1 bilitation of water supply and sanita2,562.6 Implementation of the SUE «Vodokanal of St. Petersburg” Investment tion systems in St. Petersburg in 2011. Program, approved for 2009-2011, was finished in 2011. This amount is made up of Vodokanal’s inMio. Rubles The main attention during this period was paid Construction and rehabilitation of water 1,500.0 vestment program and budget investments in to the following programs: treatment plants for water supply from the facilities ordered by the Employer’s Office for surface source; Construction and Capital Repairs of EngineerNeva Untreated Wastewater Discharge ing and Energy Complex (hereinafter—the Closure Project; Improvement of energy efficiency and enEmployer’s Office). 2,337.0 ergy saving; Upgrading and construction of wastewaIn 2011, SUE “Vodokanal of St. PetersVodokanal’s own funds ter treatment plants to reduce nutrients Engineering infrastructure development burg” investment program amounted St. Petersburg budget load on water bodies; for new housing and industrial areas. to RUR 7,766.6 Mio. Federal Budget connection fee raised funds Awards in 2011 The total investments in 2009-2011 38 Achievements of SUE “Vodokanal of St. Pe­ EFQM Excellence Award-2011 Finalist 39 tersburg” regularly receive recognition of Rus­ Total in sian and foreign experts. A.N. Kosygin Award for achievements in Investment Field 2009-2011 2009 2010 2011 solving Russia’s economic problems. Vodokanal’s Investment Program 24,013.1 7,376.2 8,870.3 7,766.6 In 2011, Vodokanal was awarded with the water supply 5,068.7 1,574.9 2,013.7 1,480.1 following national and international prizes: In 2011, Felix V. Karmazinov, Director General of SUE “Vodokanal of St. Petersburg”, was wastewater disposal and treatment 18,516.7 5,617.6 6,798.5 6,100.6 Gold medals “Innovation for investments awarded with the European Environmental to the future” of the American-Russian Center Award for services in practical implesocial sphere 427.5 183.7 58.0 185.8 Business Union for innovations—useful mentation of scientific standards, as well as Investments by the Employer’s Office 14,987.3 4,821.1 5,382.4 4,783.8 models “Automated Water Quality Conhonorable certificate of the Ministry for Rewater supply 8,274.0 2,530.9 3,254.6 2,488.5 trol System at Water Treatment Plant” and gional Development—for great personal con“Water Intake Column Dosing Device” tribution to the Baltic Sea condition improveSUE “Vodokanal of St. Petersburg” // Sustainability Report 2011 wastewater disposal 6,713.3 2,290.2 2,127.8 2,295.3 ment and active role in the implementation of TOTAL Investment 39,000.4 12,197.3 14,252.7 12,550.4 Best Taxpayer-2010 the “Clean Baltic Sea” international environmental project. International Quality Award European In addition, Felix V. Karmazinov became the It is worth noting that Vodokanal’s investment As the result of the made adjustment, the Standard prize-winner of Top 100 rating that includes activity depends on water consumption. In view design capacity of big water and wastewater best top-managers of St. Petersburg. of specific water consumption level reduction in treatment plants as well as the needs in new St. Petersburg during the last years, it became water mains were decreased. possible to adjust the Company long-term development plan in 2009. Such a document It enabled to reach almost two-times reduction About the Company // Vodokanal Today for Vodokanal is the Program of the integrated (from RUR 269.2 bln. to RUR 137.7 bln.) in development of St. Petersburg public utilities water and wastewater investments to be made systems, including heat supply, water supply, up to 2015. Implementation of this long-term wastewater disposal and treatment, up to 2015 plan will be continued by Vodokanal within (approved by St. Petersburg Government Dethe framework of the Investment Program for cree no. 1270 dated 21.10.2008). 2012-2014. Risk Management Financial risk management organization Vodokanal follows a balanced financial policy based on the Strate41 gic Plan and long-term perspective. The basis of the forecast is unconditional comof the monitoring and analysis made by means pliance with the key financial ratios, calculated of the financial model, Vodokanal manageaccording to both Russian and International ment promptly make necessary amendments Financial Reporting Standards, maintaining to the Company’s production and investment the values as recommended by International programs. Financial Institutes. Risk management is integrated into the manTo make a long-term forecast, the agement system via strategic management company used its financial model caland budgeting processes. Internal control culated for the period up to 2030. procedures are implemented by the company in order to decrease all risks. Company interIt helps to evaluate Vodokanal’s financial canal audit is performed by the separate departpabilities taking into account the implementament within the Vodokanal’s administration. tion of big investment projects using its own or Scenario approach, industry analysis and borrowed funds. The model enables considSWOT analysis are used by SUE “Vodokanal eration of macroeconomic factors and comof St. Petersburg” as risk identification and aspany development factors to identify potential sessment methods. sources of investments and to project development options under different scenarios. Currency and interest rate risks hedging, About the Company // Risk Management property insurance, and social responsibility The model provides instruments for comparainsurance of Vodokanal as owner of large protive analysis and monitoring of Vodokanal’s duction sites are used as the most important dynamically changing results. Using the results risk decrease tools. Financial risk manageNon-financial ment in 2011 risk management In 2011, Vodokanal continued using long-term mentation options on basic indicators of the 42 Within the internal control system Vodokanal has a special struc43 forecasting and financial modeling to minimize Company financial and economic activity in tural department, which task is preventive identification of the financial risks. the long-term perspective. As the result the Company risks and implementation of risk minimization activities. Continuous monitoring of the financial situCompany can choose the most effective large ation and assessing potential impacts of the development projects implementation options current financial situation on the key financial taking into account minimization of financial indicators provided prompt update of financial risks. policy and maintenance of the key financial ratios describing the Company’s financial stabilVodokanal used a hedging mechanism to ity and solvency at the proper level. reduce potential financial risks. The counterpart under the agreement for currency and In 2011, SUE “Vodokanal of St. Petersburg” interest rate risks hedging was one of the bigcontinued improving its financial model. The gest western banks—BNP Paribas. Under the SUE “Vodokanal of St. Petersburg” // Sustainability Report 2011 output of the model’s latest version is a packagreements, Vodokanal until the end of 2011 age of financial statements prepared in commade payments of agreed amounts in Russian pliance with the International Financial ReportRubles to the counterpart in accordance with Internal control department activity aim is the Internal control department provides the maning Standards (IFRS). The improved model the approved time schedule, which coincides achievement of the following tasks: agement of Vodokanal with the information obcorresponds to the European level and allows with the international loan payment schedule. tained: to predict and analyze Vodokanal’s key finanIn return, BNP Paribas transferred to Vodokanprovision of financial and management cial indicators in accordance with IFRS. al the payments in Euro at a fixed exchange information reliability; during the Company structural departIn addition, the model enables forecasting rate throughout the effective period of the ment inspections, of impact of large investment projects implehedging agreements. provision of assets safekeeping and effective use of the Company resources; upon the analysis of range and price of About the Company // Risk Management goods and services purchased by the Vodokanal policy in the field of financial management and minimizaassistance in establishing the Company Company for its activity implementation, tion of potential risks was appreciated by the leading international optimal corporate structure; rating agencies Standard&Poor’s and Moody’s, which gave Vodokanal during examination of the Company basic the following investment-grade credit ratings: compliance with the current legislation of and supporting processes. the Russian Federation, St. Petersburg S&P—BB+ . Stable outlook. and internal regulations of the Company; General procedure for internal control of the structural departments and internal auditing Moody’s—Ваа2. Stable outlook. fulfillment of the Company financial and was formed and regulated. Rules for composieconomic plans. tion, description and formatting of the audit report were defined. Methods for different type of activity inspections and examinations are under development. To alleviate the risks associated with and accident risk control at hazardous pro03. undesirable changes in legislation, Voduction sites. dokanal actively participates in development of regulations, makes suggestions and argues The following directions for improving the nonits position. This way sectorial Federal Law “On financial risks management are of current imSegmentation of non-financial risks was made by Vodokanal within water supply and wastewater disposal” was portance for Vodokanal: the framework of the Company self-assessment in accordance with published in the end of 2011. Vodokanal exthe EFQM Business Excellence Model. The key aspects of the Comperts actively participated in its development. establishment of informational security pany activities which may lead to risks were identified. management system in accordance with ISO 27001; They include: Internal and external audits as a part of the Quality Management System (EMS) enable 44 04. To prevent the risks associated with a decline in the culture of water use, establishment of energy management 45 01. Risks associated with the customer disquick identification of the management areas Vodokanal actively implements environmental system in accordance with ISO 50001; satisfaction with water and wastewater which need to be improved and help improve awareness-building educational programs. service quality. the processes at all stages of the service life development of well-defined risk mancycle. This enables to improve the Company 02. Risks associated with the environmental activity quality and increase the customer sat05. The management of the risks associated with potable water source conagement system; negative impact. isfaction level. tamination is based on early prevention of external and internal benchmarking exsuch contaminations. In particular, Vodokanal pansion; 03. Risks associated with changes in legisManagement the environmental has implemented the biomonitoring of river lation. 02. negative impact risks is performed water by crayfish at all its water intakes. And wide use of such tools as 20 keys, 6 sigon the basis of environmental management oil spills in the river are detected by the monima, Lean Production, etc. 04. Risks associated with the general desystem ISO 14001, which is used by the Comtoring system installed on one of the bridges cline in the culture of water use. pany. Vodokanal enhances the reliability of across the Neva, upstream of the first city waEfficient use of natural resources, system apSUE “Vodokanal of St. Petersburg” // Sustainability Report 2011 water supply and sewerage systems, improves ter intake. proach use for the Company management, 05. Risks associated with the potable water wastewater treatment and sludge utilization active participation in regulations developsource contamination. technologies, stops discharge of flush water from water treatment plants by treating it and 06. In order to minimize the risks associated with accidents and hazardous ment, environmental educational activity, use of technological innovations, and implementa06. Risks of industrial accidents. using it as process water, and raises the isworking conditions Vodokanal continuously tion of benchmarking became the part of the sues of environmental friendliness of the existperforms activity for working conditions imCompany management culture and help to 07. Risks associated with potential diseases ing motor transport. Energy management sysprovement, accident frequency rate reduction alleviate risks. in hazardous working conditions. tem on the basis of ISO 50001 is implemented within the Company since 2011 in order to create a system approach for energy perforAbout the Company // Risk Management The above risks are managed by mance increase. the Company systematically, using a process-based approach. Improvement of the occupational health and Status of the non-financial safety management system on the basis of OHSAS-18001 leads to mitigation of the risks risk management process in 2011 To minimize the risks associated with associated with emergency situations and 01. the customer dissatisfaction with waconsequently, to the improvement of service ter and wastewater services, the quality manquality and mitigation of the environment polIn 2011, the non-financial risk management duction of the applied approaches for nonagement system based on the International lution risks. Currently the professional risks asprocess was under constant control based on financial risks management into the integral Standard ISO-9001 is improved continuously. sessment is not only the important part of ocISO European Standards and EFQM Business system. Strategic planning, activity key results, Regular interaction with customers through cupational health and safety management but Excellence Model. customers and personnel satisfaction, partthe Hot Line in combination with the Comalso the part of the Company general mannership, corporate social responsibility develpany’s information disclosure policy (includagement. Implementation of this activity can Annual self-assessment of the Company acopment—all these elements are the part of the ing active communication with mass media) be provided on the basis of OHSAS-18001 tivity in accordance with the EFQM Business Company management culture and help to alas well as questionnaires and customer satisinternational standard and range of national Excellence Model enabled successful introleviate risks. faction surveys, helps to mitigate this risk too. regulations. Participation in external initiatives Compliance with HELCOM Recommendations In compliance with the commitments taken by the Russian Federa47 tion under the Helsinki Convention on the Baltic Marine Environment Protection, Vodokanal St. Petersburg strives to reduce untreated wastewater discharge and remove nutrients (nitrogen and phosphorus) from wastewater. The Convention on the Protection of the Marine The governing body of the Convention is the Environment of the Baltic Sea (Helsinki ConHelsinki Commission, the Baltic Marine Envivention) was signed by all Baltic Sea countries ronment Protection Commission (HELCOM), in 1974. The Convention for the first time dealt which in particular issues recommendations with all polluters located in the catchment area (regulations) for municipal wastewater treatof the Baltic Sea. Then, due to the political ment. changes caused by the collapse of the USSR, establishment of new independent states, uniIt was in the 90-ies when the Helsinki ComAbout the Company // Participation in external initiatives fication of Germany and development of the mission for the first time issued recommendainternational environmental law, a new Helsinki tions for nutrients (nitrogen and phosphorus) Convention was signed in 1992 by the states removal from municipal wastewater. Such reclocated along the coast of the Baltic Sea and ommendations were common for all countries the European Community. It was put into effect of the Baltic Sea Region and become more upon the ratification on January 17, 2000. The stringent all-time. Russian Federation approved 1992 Helsinki With the adoption of new recommendations Convention in October 1998. for municipal wastewater treatment on 15 November 2007, the requirements to wastewater The main purpose of the Convention is to protreatment were tighten. When discharging mutect the marine environment of the Baltic Sea, nicipal effluents into water bodies it became restore and preserve the environmental balnecessary to achieve the following values: ance in the region and ensure sustainable use total nitrogen—not more than 10 mg/l, total of its resources. phosphorus—not more than 0.5 mg/l. Member-countries committed themselves to take all necessary legislative, administrative Vodokanal St. Petersburg is actively working to and other measures to prevent the Baltic Sea upgrade the biological wastewater treatment pollution and eliminate the existing pollution process and, in particular, to meet stringent sources for the purpose of the Baltic Sea ecorequirement for the removal of phosphorus system restoration. compounds. Preventing pollution in the Baltic Sea by nitrogen and phosphorus is an urgent task for all countries in the Baltic Sea Region. The important milestone in fulfillment of HELCOM recommendations and exclusion of St. Petersburg from the list of hot spots is the completion of the extension of the To meet new requirements and reach stable Today, the enhanced biological treatment pronorthern tunnel collector. nutrient removal performance of wastewacess is introduced at all wastewater treatment ter treatment plants in St. Petersburg, the plants of St. Petersburg. enhanced biological treatment and chemical phosphorus precipitation processes have The President of Finland Tarja Halonen particibeen used since 2005. pated in the ceremony devoted to this event. 48 In the second half of 2011, 6 untreated wasteZavodksie WWTP, Pargolovo WWTP and WWTP 49 In June 2011, Petersburg met to full extent new recommendations of the Helsinki water discharges along Arsenalnaya and Vyin Osinovaya Roshchya. Commission, so that total phosphorus in the effluent does not exceed 0.5 mg/l. borgskaya Embankments with the total volume Each of seven local wastewater treatment of 30,000 cubic meters per day were conplants had rather small capacity, 300-700 cuReduction of nitrogen and phosphorus load nected to the collector and channeled to the bic meters per day. All plants were built long on St. Petersburg water bodies Northern Wastewater Treatment Plant for treatago, in the 70-ies and 80-ies of the last cenment. As a result, the level of wastewater treattury. In the course of time, these local plants ment in St. Petersburg reached 94%. stopped coping with the load and could not ensure the required quality of wastewater t/year The northern tunnel collector will be complettreatment. Outdated processes, for exam25,000 23,175 ed in 2012. Connection of the remaining unple, biological filters were used at the plants, 22,288 treated wastewater discharges to the collector which could not ensure fulfilment of the Helwill enable to channel for treatment 95% of all sinki Commission recommendations. When SUE “Vodokanal of St. Petersburg” // Sustainability Report 2011 20,000 18,163 Plan of SUE “Vodokanal municipal wastewater. the local wastewater treatment plants were of St. Petersburg” closed down, wastewater with the total flow In 2011, the following suburban wastewater of 1,600,00 cubic meters per year was chanAbout the Company // Participation in external initiatives 15,000 12,248 treatment plants were closed down: Lesnye neled to the Northern Wastewater Treatment 11,048 WWTP and Rechnye WWTP in Pesochny setPlant for treatment in compliance with all cur10,729 10,003 10,049 9,803 9,337 10,000 9,150 8,403 tlement, Torfyanye WWTP, Prigorodnye WWTP, rent requirements. 5,000 3,973 3,502 3,027 1,930 1,178 760 677 492 467 392 355 327 0 1978 1985 1987 2005 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 nitrogen mass, t/year phosphorus mass, t/year Continuous reconstruction of existing wasteIn 2011, Petrodvorets wastewater treatment water treatment plants contributes to the plant was commissioned after the reconstrucachievement of stable performance paramtion. The capacity of the reconstructed plant is eters. 65,000 m3/d in dry weather and 72,000 m3/d For instance, 50,000 m3/d wastewater treatin rainy weather. ment plant in Petrodvorets was set into operaA special feature of the plant is the tertiary tion in 1976. Following the growth of housing treatment (post-treatment) incorporated into construction the hydraulic load on the plant the process chain. At the final treatment stage increased. the effluent undergoes UV-disinfection. Participation in the Participation of SUE “Vodokanal of St. Petersburg” in the UN Global Compact UN Global Compact is an important element in promoting the significance of high standards in the Company’s operations. Since March 2007, SUE “Vodokanthat corporate responsibility commitment is 50 SUE “Vodokanal of St. Petersburg” business oriented towards attracting and retaining of 51 al of St. Petersburg” has been a valid strategic priority task of the Company. principle is to be independent from ideology the personnel as well as ensuring a long-term a member of the United Nations SUE “Vodokanal of St. Petersburg” takes an and preferences of any public and political ininvolvement of the personnel through the proGlobal Compact. active part in summits, sessions and conferstitutions. vision of social services and targeted financial ences organized by the Global Compact. This Relations with the personnel, being the most assistance. The UN Global Compact is an initiative to eninitiative is a platform for discussions in the important asset of the Company, are built on able the company to ensure compliance of its light of the accumulated positive experience the grounds of social partnership, common Targeted financial assistance under the Comactivities and strategy with ten general princiand search of solutions to introduce principals goals, respect of mutual interests, feasibility of pany’s social programmes is a voluntary unples in the field of human rights, labour, enviof the Global Compact into business strategy obligations undertaken by the parties and fuldertaking to enhance the social protection ronment and anti-corruption. and practice. filment of such obligations in good faith. SUE and insure against risks. Such assistance is “Vodokanal of St. Petersburg” ensures for all an integral part of the social package for the The key principles of the Global Compact are After joining the Global Compact, SUE “Vodoemployees equal opportunities to unlock their employees. as follows: kanal of St. Petersburg” submits annual suspotential in labour activity, unbiased and fair SUE “Vodokanal of St. Petersburg” // Sustainability Report 2011 tainability reports. On the national level Vodoassessment of their work, selection and proSUE “Vodokanal of St. Petersburg” considers observance and protection of human kanal interacts with the Russian companies motion of employees based solely on profesits customers as partners and builds its relarights declared by the international comthat participate in the Global Compact. They sional abilities, knowledge and skills. tions on the grounds of confidence and coopAbout the Company // Participation in external initiatives munity; develop new joint projects and actively exeration. change the experiences. To follow the strategy of socially-responsible provision of the right to conclude labour business, Vodokanal performs purposeful Participation of SUE “Vodokanal of St. Peterscontracts; In 2011, several seminars were organized work of solving socially important tasks. SUE burg” in the UN Global Compact is an imporunder the United Nations Development Pro“Vodokanal of St. Petersburg” has developed tant element in promoting the significance of elimination of discrimination in the sphere gramme in the Russian Federation together and operates the system of social programmes high standards in the Company’s operations. of labour and employment; with the Russian Union of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs. SUE “Vodokanal of St. Petersprevention of negative environmental imburg” took active part in advisory panels, in pacts; the exhibition of non-financial reports under the UN Global Compact regional networking assistance in the development and distriwithin the framework of the UN Global Combution of green technologies; pact annual meeting, in the Russian Business Week related to the work of the Management support of anti-corruption activities. Committee for promoting ISO 26000 Social Responsibility Guidance. One of the Global Compact special features is that involvement in its initiative set an obligation Vodokanal has built up a long experience in not only on the Company but also on the Comdeveloping and implementation of environpany’s management. Personal involvement of mental and social projects, partnership proVodokanal’s top management in the Global grammes, labour relations and observance of Compact is a striking illustration for Vodokanal human rights. employees and other stakeholders of the fact Adoption of the Federal Law On Water Supply and Wastewater Disposal and involvement in the development of other legislative acts 52 ned the Federal Laws “On Water Supply and the federal law “On protection of the 53 Wastewater Disposal” (no.416-FZ dated Ladoga Lake”; 07.12.2011) and “On amending separate legislative acts of the Russian Federation in conthe federal law “On amending separate nection with the adoption of the Federal Law legislative acts of the Russian Federa“On Water Supply and Wastewater Disposal” tion on principles of public utilities tariffs (no.417-FZ dated 07.12.2011). These laws regulation and improvement of the proshall form the base for legislative acts regucedure for connecting to public-service lating all operations in water and wastewater infrastructure”; sector. the decree of the Russian Federation The Law “On Water Supply and Wastewater Government “On amending separate Disposal” will come into force on 1 January legislative acts of the Russian Federation SUE “Vodokanal of St. Petersburg” // Sustainability Report 2011 2013, except for the provisions limiting the with regard to permitting the use of water privatization, which will come into force on bodies and keeping the state register”; 1 January 2012. Some articles of the Law will About the Company // Participation in external initiatives come into force in 2014. the law of St. Petersburg “On amending St. Petersburg law “On delineation of In 2011, experts of Vodokanal St. Petersburg New water and wastewater regulations proDuring 2011 experts of Vodokanal St. Peterspowers between the public authorities of took an active part in the development of the posed by Vodokanal included provisions relatburg took part in the development and drafting St. Petersburg in the field of public health Federal Laws “On Water Supply and Wasteed to environmental protection in water supply of other legislative acts of the Russian Federaprotection and sanitary-and-epidemiowater Disposal” and “On amending separate and wastewater disposal, operation of ownertion and St. Petersburg, namely: logic safety of St. Petersburg population”; legislative acts of the Russian Federation in less facilities of the centralized cold water supconnection with the adoption of the Federal ply and wastewater disposal systems as well the federal law “On amending the Federthe decree of St. Petersburg “On the Law “On Water Supply and Wastewater Disas conclusion of the agreement on governing al Law “On supporting competitiveness” procedure of imposing fees for the disposal”. water and wastewater operations. and some other legislative acts of the charge of wastewater and contamiRussian Federation”; nants into municipal sewerage system of Along with drafting the law content, work with Discussion about the legal nature of the St. Petersburg”. text, comments and clarifications, Vodokanal agreement on governing water and wastewaperformed tremendous and efficient work on ter operations was initiated in scientific cominitiating discussions of the laws on all levmunity. Vodokanal St. Petersburg position with els and raising the awareness of the need to regard to this issue was presented at the interadopt such laws as well as of the substance national conference on public-private partnerof specific legal norms. ships held in the premises of the law faculty of St. Petersburg State University. Vodokanal developed motivated proposals that were taken into consideration on the final On 7 December 2011, the President of the drafting stage. Russian Federation Dmitry A. Medvedev sig­ Involvement into Participation in UNIDO the REACH European programmes Regulation REACH (Registration, Evaluation, Authorization and restriction of 54 UNIDO is the United Nations Industrial Development Organization. 55 Chemicals) is the European Union Regulation governing production It mobilizes knowledge, experience, information and technologies, and turnover of all chemicals including their compulsory registrathereby contributing to the productive employment, development of tion. a competitive economy and providing environmental sustainability. In 2010, within the framework of the Baltic Sea ment with regard to informing potential suppliIn May 2011, a number of international events Vodokanal was also involved in making the Action Summit in compliance with the status of ers (importers) about Vodokanal’s methods of were organized in the premises of SUE “Vodo2nd issue of the UNIDO in Russia Magazine. a subsequent customer Vodokanal St. Petersusing chemicals; collection and review of exkanal of St. Petersburg” within the framework The UNIDO North-Western International Cenburg undertook the Commitment in respect isting safety data sheets; informing suppliers of St. Petersburg IV Neva International Envitre of Clean Production acted as a consultant of the Baltic Sea: “Introduction of improved about the requirement to submit safety data ronment Congress and the theme line of these in this work. measures to provide environment-friendly sheets in accordance with the REACH stanevents was a new UNIDO Green Industry stratIn 2011, it became clear through the contacts selection and use of chemicals in Vodokanal dards. A mandatory and integral part of Vodoegy. with UNIDO representatives that new water and SUE “Vodokanal of St. Petersburg” // Sustainability Report 2011 St. Petersburg in accordance with the REACH kanal’s cooperation with external suppliers is wastewater technologies applied in St. Petersstandards”. the submittal of existing safety data sheets for Thus, in cooperation with the UNIDO Environburg as well as high proficiency of Vodokanal’s chemicals and substances by suppliers. mental Management Department Vodokanal experts can be useful for the cities and towns About the Company // Participation in external initiatives The Commitment was undertaken to protect held: of the UNIDO member countries. the Baltic Sea from the effects of hazardous Within the framework of the undertaken Comsubstances by way of selecting environmentmitment Vodokanal St. Petersburg cooperates the international meeting of the national Extensive cooperation of SUE “Vodokanal of friendly chemicals to be applied in producon continuing basis with the Baltic Sea Action clean production centers under the Joint St. Petersburg”, acting as a water and wastetion processes and laboratories of Vodokanal Group (BSAG) to improve the condition of UNIDO-UNEP Programme on Resource water operator, with national clean production St. Petersburg and ensure safe chemical hanwater resources in the Baltic Sea. Vodokanal Efficiency and Cleaner Production; centers of the UNIDO international network is dling. plans to develop its cooperation with BSAG in line with the UNIDO partnership and Green In 2011, SUE “Vodokanal of St. Petersburg” further on. the round-table on water consumption Production strategy, develops the ideas of proceeded with its work under the Commitand water quality; St. Petersburg Environment Protection Declaration adopted by the participant of IV Neva the international meeting under the International Environment Congress. UNIDO Global Chemical Leasing Programme with participation of representaSUE “Vodokanal of St. Petersburg” is pretives from 12 ministries and directors of pared under the UNIDO technical assistance national clean production centers. to make further technological contribution to achieve objectives of various projects as well as to use its expertise in UNIDO projects for EurAsEC. Establishment Joining the European of the International Advanced Foundation for Quality Water Technologies Centre Management International Advanced Water Technologies Centre was estab56 Since 1 December 2011, Vodokanal St. Petersburg has been a full mem57 lished in 2010 under the aegis of the Ecology and Nature Conserber of the European Foundation for Quality Management (EFQM). vation Working Group of the Northern Dimension Business Council in collaboration with the Northern Dimension Environmental Partnership. The European Foundation for Quality ManageIn Russia, EFQM is represented by the Allment (EFQM) is a not-for-profit membership Russian Quality Organization working to proThe relevant decision was made in April 2010 ence with the participation of leading water organization. It was established in 1987 by 14 mote effective management methods as a tool in the course of the Northern Dimension Busiand wastewater companies from Russia and leading European companies with the support of sustainable development of Russia. ness Council meeting co-chaired by the Diforeign countries, representatives of the Euof the European Commission to increase the rector General of SUE “Vodokanal of St. Peropean Commission, foreign diplomats. At this competitiveness of the European economy There are a set of key principles upon which tersburg” and the Director of Lahti Science conference it was officially announced about by promoting new management approaches, the EFQM’s fundamental concept of Exceland Business Park. the establishment of International Advanced stimulating the learning of management balence is based: On 21 October 2010, under the International Water Technologies Centre. sics and creating opportunities for recognition SUE “Vodokanal of St. Petersburg” // Sustainability Report 2011 Clean Water Forum 2010 top-managers of of success in this field. achieving balanced results; SUE “Vodokanal of St. Petersburg” and Lahti In February 2011, the Centre proceeded to Science and Business Park signed the memoimplement its activities in line with the relevant EFQM members number over 800 European adding value for customers; About the Company // Participation in external initiatives randum of Cooperation that declares to join programme, which included seminars, conferorganizations having several million of emefforts for establishing in St. Petersburg the ences, audits, fact-finding visits, international ployees. leading with vision, inspiration and integTraining Centre on Environment Protection and exhibitions, interactive activities for schoolchilrity; Rational Use of Natural Resources. dren and lectures for students. EFQM was established to assist organizations International Advanced Water Technologies in achieving sustainable success by giving managing by processes; Centre became the place for meetings of In May 2011, a separate webpage of the them relevant recommendations. expert from Russia, Finland and other NDEP Centre was open in the official web-porsucceeding through people; countries, training of managers and experts tal of SUE “Vodokanal of St. Petersburg” The European Foundation for Quality Manfrom Russian water and wastewater compa(http://www.vodokanal.spb.ru). The informa­ agement has its representatives—national nurturing creativity and innovation; nies, fostering an attitude of care towards wation on the web-portal is published in two lanpartner organizations (NPO) in different counter and promotion of water technologies and guages (Russian and English) and includes tries. Their task is to promote the Excellence building partnerships; solutions. programmes and time schedules of the CenModel and provide relevant tutorial support in SUE “Vodokanal of St. Petersburg” and Lahti tre activities. their countries. taking responsibility for a sustainable fuScience and Business Park were co-organizture. ers of the Centre. The Ministry of the EnvironInternational Advanced Water Technologies ment of Finland, Northern Dimension Business Centre participated in Cleantech Expo 2011, Council, Ecovod, Ramboll, Kemira, Onninen the international clean technology exhibition and other research institutions became its organized in Lahti in autumn 2011, and World partners. Water Forum in Marseille in March 2012. On 26 January 2011, SUE “Vodokanal of In 2011, the Centre organized about 30 events St. Petersburg” hosted the NDEP Sustainabilwith the participation of more than one thouity and Water Resource Management Confersand experts. Vodokanal St. Petersburg believes that the development and improvement of our 58 59 improvement of the Company management work as a continuous, natural process in framework with the focus on responsibility for the changing external and internal envisustainable future is one of its prioritized tasks: ronment. sustainable use of natural resources; All the above will guarantee the quality of services, customer confidence in the safety of tap provision of affordable services; water and customer rights for favorable environment today and in the next years. justified, well-balanced expenditures and income; The organization showing a maximum compliance with the Excellence Model becomes raising of investments; the Winner of the prestigious EFQM ExcelSUE “Vodokanal of St. Petersburg” // Sustainability Report 2011 lence Award (there are also nominations “Prize financial soundness; Winner” and “Finalist”). However, before the contenders begin to compete for the Award, About the Company // Participation in external initiatives technical, economic, process, energy they usually must pass several levels: “Comand management efficiency; mitted to Excellence” and “Recognised for corresponding EFQM Certificates, and, moreStages of participation in the EFQM Model Excellence” (on a regional scale) and receive over, win the Tournament of CEE countries. competition: This multilevel scheme supports step-by-step implementation of the Excellence Model. 2009—Vodokanal received the certificate confirming compliance of the ComSince 2005, Vodokanal has started self-aspany management with the “Recognised sessment of its activities on the basis of the for Excellence” level of the EFQM Model; Business Excellence Model to improve its management framework. At first the Compa2010—Vodokanal won the International ny used the RF Government Regional Quality Quality Tournament of Central and EastModel harmonized with the EFQM Model. Folern Europe. lowing to the results of 2006 Vodokanal became the winner of the competition for the RF In 2011, Vodokanal St. Petersburg competed Government Quality Award. for the EFQM Excellence Award and became the Finalist,—it is the first European water Since 2009, Vodokanal has conducted the company to achieve such result. self-assessment on the basis of the EFQM Model and participated in the EFQM competition. Interaction with stakeholders Partnership concept Vodokanal St. Petersburg maintains lasting foreign partners—suppliers of equipment 61 relations with its partners on the basis of muand technologies. tual trust, respect and openness in line with the EFQM Model concepts, knowing that in To share experience, Vodokanal St. Petersthe dynamic environment of the modern world burg has built good partnership relations with the company success and satisfaction of all water companies in Russia and the Baltic Sea stakeholders strongly depend on the developRegion. ment of effective partnership. The partnership with the Russian and EuroVodokanal St. Petersburg divides its partners pean banking community, as well as with difinto segments—by types of activities or serferent investors is successfully implemented vices and by significance and importance of in Vodokanal. Investments through the publicthe partnership in terms of creating value for private partnership scheme are an example the stakeholders. of sound and coherent concept of Company partnership. This scheme was used for the Vodokanal adheres to the multilateral partnerconstruction of South-West Wastewater Treatship concept including the interaction with its ment Plant some years ago, for the ongoing About the Company // Interaction with stakeholders partners and suppliers on technical, processconstruction of the Northern Tunnel Collector. related, financial, organizational and tutorial aspects of activities. The basic principle of the partnership concept embraced by Vodokanal: As for its international partners, in 2011 Voeach partner fulfils its obligations in dokanal continued to cooperate successfully due time and at a good quality level with such organizations as: understanding that partnership implies joint work aimed at long-term, the Ministry of the Environment of Finsustainable creation of value for land; both parties. the John Nurminen Foundation; Over decades of cooperation with foreign and domestic partners, Vodokanal has never failed Nordic Environment Finance Corporation to fulfil its obligations, and this fact is highly ap(NEFCO); preciated by its partners. Well-defined partnership concept and mutuSwedish International Development Coally beneficial cooperation with the partners operation Agency; help us implement innovative technologies, modernize plants, improve the company manNorthern Dimension Environmental Partagement and, eventually, raise the stakeholdnership; ers’ satisfaction with our services. Membership Interaction in associations, unions with customers and other organizations Vodokanal St. Petersburg gives much attenkanal permits for the works which might affect 62 One of the most important aspects of Vodokanal activities is main63 tion to participation in professional associathe safety of permanent facilities. taining everyday contacts with customers. tions and unions. During 2010, Vodokanal changed twice its In 2009, Vodokanal became a co-founder permit for the performance of works which of the non-commercial partnership National might affect the safety of permanent facilities The Company communicates with customQuick response to the customUnion of Vodokanals (NUV) uniting compain order to bring the list of works in compliance ers in several ways: in the course of services ers’ complaints of deficiencies nies of different ownership which account for with the amendments to the current legislaprovision, in the course of interaction initiated in water and sewage networks almost two-thirds of the total water supply in tion. by Vodokanal (interviews, focus groups), by operation is an important asRussia. The main activity of NUV is the improveIn December 2011, Vodokanal joined the Notdiscussing various problems in the mass mepect. Since 2003, SUE “Vodokanal ment of interaction between water companies For-Profit Partnership “Interregional Union of dia and by organizing different meetings with of St. Petersburg” has been and governmental authorities for the purpose Design Engineers” (NP MRSP) and obtained citizens. operating the Hot Line which of introducing new operational standards and the competency certificate for the planning receives customer calls round technical regulations and improving investworks which might affect the safety of permaCustomers come to SUE “Vodokanal of the clock (tel.: +7 (812) 305-09-09). SUE “Vodokanal of St. Petersburg” // Sustainability Report 2011 ment prospects of the sector. The strategic nent facilities. St. Petersburg” with different questions about goal of NUV is to create conditions for implethe issuance of authorizations for connection Besides, SUE “Vodokanal of St. Petersburg” mentation of the self-regulation mechanism as Since 2001, Vodokanal has been involved in to water and sewerage networks, conclureceives requests via the Internet (there is the most effective tool for the water supply and extensive cooperation with the Russian Tunnel sion of contracts, payments under contracts. a separate section “Feedback” on the corpoAbout the Company // Interaction with stakeholders sanitation sector management. Association. Currently, there is only one TunSince water is a product and sewage collecrate website www.vodokanal.spb.ru). nel Association in Russia; it unites over 80 ortion—a service, Vodokanal is implementing Felix V. Karmazinov, Director General of Vodoganizations dealing with design, construction a new contract policy to formalize contractual All incoming requests are recorded in the inkanal St. Petersburg, was elected President of and operation of underground structures in 28 relations with its customers. For this purpose, formation system and forwarded to the prothe National Union of Vodokanals. Russian cities, in Belarus, Ukraine, Azerbaispecial customer service units are set up at duction division responsible for remediation Moreover, Vodokanal St. Petersburg maintains jan and Kazakhstan, and involves the leading Vodokanal’s production branches to commuof relevant section of network and informing partner relations with Russian water compacompanies from France, Germany and Cananicate with customers within their respective the customers of the works performed. All the nies in the framework of other professional da. Over 400 specialists are members of the service areas in each administrative district call processing stages—from the call to reassociations. The Company is a member of Russian Tunnel Association. It is a huge engiof the city. The reception rooms provide the mediation—are under the control of a body the Russian Association of Water Supply and neering and technical force capable of accelnecessary information and document forms; independent from the production division Wastewater Disposal. Vodokanal’s initiative— erating the scientific and technical progress in a box to collect customers’ wishes and comwhich performs works. The monitoring of the Baltvod Association of North-Western Water the field of tunneling and underground buildplaints is always there. request processing may only be stopped afCompanies—celebrated its 20th anniversary ing in Russia. ter the customer confirms that the works are in April 2011. completed. Thus, it is a customer that evaluFurthermore, Vodokanal St. Petersburg particThe materials provided by the Russian Tunates the final results of works in relation to evipates in the activities of the Non-Commercial nel Association under the contract help Voery call. Partnership “The Russian Water Society”. dokanal use the Russian and foreign experiVodokanal St. Petersburg is a member of the ence of underground works to build municipal Non-Commercial Partnership “Association of infrastructure in St. Petersburg and promote Builders of St. Petersburg” which got the status application of advanced technologies for the of a self-regulatory organization in 2009. In the design and construction of Vodokanal’s tunsame year, this partnership issued to Vodonels and underground structures. Interaction with financial institutions For the purpose of improving the existing proavailability of production facilities; 66 In 2011, implementation of the Neva Untreated Wastewater Discharge 67 curement system, it was decided in 2011 to Closure Program was going on. recommend that Vodokanal’s subdivisions qualifications of managers and specialshould introduce the prequalification proceists; dure when procuring certain types of goods, The Program is co-financed with the loans and FMoE on providing non-refundable assisworks or services. company ratings; provided by the European Bank for Recontance for this Project were signed in 2010. struction and Development (EBRD), Nordic Prequalification means selection of contendavailability of certificates, diplomas, selfInvestment Bank and European Investment In 2011, Vodokanal continued to ers for participation in the procurement proceregulating organization documents; Bank, and the non-refundable assistance of perform its obligations of debt dure in compliance with the requirements and the Northern Dimension Environmental Partrepayment and servicing under criteria set by the procurement initiator. other criteria. nership (NDEP), Swedish International Dethe loan agreements. velopment Cooperation Agency (SIDA), the The following selection criteria are used for With such approach, goods and services can Ministry of the Environment of Finland (FMoE), SUE “Vodokanal of St. Petersburg” // Sustainability Report 2011 prequalification: be procured on optimal terms and conditions. EBRD Shareholder Special Fund and the John LLC Vodokanal-Finance (subsidiary of VodoNurminen Foundation. kanal St. Petersburg) was paying, in a timely bidder’s experience in the area relevant manner and in full, the accumulated couto the subject of the tender; In addition to the provision of funds, Vodokanpon yield to the holders of Series 01 nonAbout the Company // Interaction with stakeholders al’s lenders and donors monitor the perforconvertible interest-bearing documentary mance of financial obligations by Vodokanal, bearer bonds of LLC Vodokanal-Finance, with compliance with environmental requirements, obligatory centralized care (state registration conformity of tender procedures for procurenumber 4-01-36398-R dated 16 November ment of goods, works and services with the 2010). The coupon yield on the first coupon international standards. in the amount of 87,760,000.00 Roubles was paid out on 15.06.2011, the coupon Furthermore, activities under the Small Treatyield on the second coupon in the amount ment Plants Reconstruction Project began in of 87,760,000.00 Roubles was paid out on 2011. The Loan Agreement with Nordic Envi14.12.2011. ronment Finance Corporation (NEFCO) and The series 01 bond’s first and second couassociated agreements with each of NEFCO pons rate was set at 8,8% per annum. Interaction with other water companies In 2011, Vodokanal St. Petersburg provided consulting and infor68 Vodokanal St. Petersburg actively promotes The following algorithm is used by the Solu69 mation services to water companies. its positive experience to solve water sector tions Promotion Office which represents VoThe cooperation with water companies is regulated by the existing problems in the Russian regions and to supdokanal St. Petersburg in the context of coopcooperation agreements and contracts with the support and asport the water companies wishing to improve eration with Russian water companies. sistance of municipal authorities. the quality of their services. Workers from different departments of VodoIn 2011, Vodokanal partnered with the following companies in the On 1 October 2011, Vodokanal St. Petersburg kanal visit the clients’ facilities to obtain input sphere of development projects promotion: established its new branch—the Engineering data for further assessment of the Company Innovation Centre comprising the Solutions operations. Samples of potable water and MUP Novgorodsky Vodokanal in Velikiy Novgorod Promotion Office. The latter provides consulsewage are taken. tancy and information as required to optimize MUP Astrvodokanal in Astrakhan the clients’ operating costs and the quality of By analysing the results we can build risk services. maps where the danger level of any event SUE “Vodokanal of St. Petersburg” // Sustainability Report 2011 ZAO Karelvodokanal in Sortavala entailing social, economic or environmental Vodokanal interacts with other water compaconsequences can be identified. ZAO Tchelnyvodokanal in Naberezhniye Tchelny nies in all fields of activities: Following the results of work, we draw up tarAbout the Company // Interaction with stakeholders Leningrad Region Administration in Priozersk Production (implementation of new wageted lists of shortand long-term actions ter and sewage treatment technologies, aimed to develop and modernize water supMUP Gorodskoy Vodokanal in Volgograd operation of networks and plants, autoply and sanitation systems. The tentative cost mated process control systems, energy of actions is calculated and a financial model Kaluga Region Administration, Kalugaoblvodokanal in Kaluga efficiency, hydraulic modelling of water is built on the basis of similar projects implesupply and sanitation systems and GIS mented by Vodokanal St. Petersburg. OAO Gatchinskiye Municipal Systems deployment); The consultancy and recommendations on LLC Intelligent Houses Customer/client service; water supply and sanitation development provided to the clients enable us to build our OAO Tambovskiye Municipal Systems and OAO TKS TamEconomy and finance (financial and investment programme and the concept of bovvodokanal economic activities, investments). Company development aimed at continuous Special attention is given to staff educaimprovement of target performance indicaLLC DelUM Business Training Centre tion and training. tors and reduction of operating costs. Interaction with Interaction with personnel trade unions Personnel is a strategic potential of the Company sustainable de70 SUE “Vodokanal of St. Petersburg” as a socially responsible employ71 velopment. Interaction with personnel and social responsibility beer actively interacts with the Company employee trade union. fore personnel are included into the Company development strategy and formulated in the Vodokanal personnel management policy. This interaction is directed to develop a social ecuted in full and often in a bigger scope. For partnership with employees to improve their example, the number of cases and amounts Interaction with employees who are the most Work with Company employees is organized, living standards, guarantee labor remuneraof material assistance to employees caught in important asset of the company is built on the the Youth Board operates, Welcome to Vodotion, ensure compliance with occupational difficult life situations proved to be significantly basis of social partnership, common goals, rekanal events are quarterly organized. health and safety requirements and provide higher than the planned ones. spect of mutual interests, feasibility of obligaemployees with a full-benefits social package. tions undertaken by the parties and fulfilment In 2011, the program “Meeting with the Youth” Vodokanal together with the trade union is inof such obligations in good faith. was put into practice, where young company A new Collective Employment Agreement for volved in organizing the rest for its employees specialists could ask the Director General all 2011-2013 developed with the active particiand their families as well as in planning and SUE “Vodokanal of St. Petersburg” // Sustainability Report 2011 The main principles of the personnel managequestions of interest. pation of the trade union was effective in Voconducting sports events, cultural and leisure ment policy are systemacity, adaptability and The Company regularly conducts personnel dokanal during 2011. No violations of the Colactivities, work with war veterans and citizens practical orientation of personnel managesatisfaction surveys with regard to key employlective Employment Agreement or worsening of the besieged Leningrad, Vodokanal labor ment systems, universality, competent apment conditions. of its conditions was identified in 2011. The veterans and the youth. About the Company // Interaction with stakeholders proach. Collective Employment Agreement was exThe next satisfaction survey is planned for SUE “Vodokanal of St. Petersburg” declares 2012 and will be made with regard to organiits commitment to human rights observation in zational and technical conditions, labor safety, accordance with the Constitution of the Rusremuneration of labor, opportunities for prosian Federation, legislative acts of Russia, fessional growth and development, informing generally recognized principles and norms of on important questions, attention to employthe international law specified in declarations, ees’ proposals and complaints, general atconventions and recommendations of the Inmosphere at workplace, satisfaction with work ternational Labour Organization and other inon different management levels, employees’ ternational organizations. attitude to their work, commitment to the comVodokanal’s well-being is impossible without pany, potential employee turnover and social its employees’ well-being. For this reason, in wellbeing of different employee groups. 2011 the company continued implementation of social programs related to recruiting and reBased on the results of the conducted surveys, taining personnel, young specialists and qualithe Company develops action plans targeted fied workers, employees motivation, improving to the personnel satisfaction and adjusts basic their labor and rest conditions. personnel management plans. Company employees are constantly informed about the most important achievements and For example, in 2011 Vodokanal developed problems of the Company and the feedback is a new training application form and questionreceived from them. naire to evaluate training results. Interaction Interaction with educational with Environmental institutions Organizations In 2011, it was five years since SUE “Vodokanal of St. Petersburg” and 72 Environmental area is one of the most important activities of Vo73 Professional College No. 89 had started their partnership. In the Coldokanal St. Petersburg, and the Company is closely cooperating lege the educational and production department to train water and with Russian and international environmental organizations in this wastewater experts is established. sphere. Over all these years, the modern material and wastewater department by Vodokanal In particular, representatives of Vodokanal take The excursion was organized at the request of technical facilities for students created toexperts; part in the activities, organized by the departthe head of the Green Peace Branch Dmitry gether with Vodokanal have been operating in ment for Russia of the Baltic Sea Protection Artamonov. Two dozens of Green Peace repthe College: on-the-job training of students of the waCommission (HELCOM), the John Nurminen resentatives had an opportunity to learn about ter and sewer department at Vodokanal Foundation (Finland), the Baltic Sea Action all wastewater and sludge treatment phases. the training set to simulate emergency facilities. Group (Finland). An active dialog between Vodokanal and the recovery work (at water and sewer netSt. Petersburg Branch of Green Peace began SUE “Vodokanal of St. Petersburg” // Sustainability Report 2011 works) and a training ground; PC-89 students actively participate in workIn 2011, the partnership of Vodokanal with in late 2008. manship contests held in Vodokanal (many of the environmental organization Green Peace the training simulators for welding, sanithem are organized at the PC premises). continued. In particular, working meetings To implement projects and programs of the tary, ventilation and electrical works, with representatives of Vodokanal Wastewater Youth Environmental Centre, Vodokanal inAbout the Company // Interaction with stakeholders small-size mechanical equipment, laboIn 2011, Vodokanal continued its partnership Disposal Branch were held. In February 2011, teracts with environmental organizations. ratory and stand equipment; with the following specialized institutions of the round table “Neva: how to make the River Among the partner organizations Vodokanal higher education: St. Petersburg State Univerclean” was held with participation of Vodocooperates with Lahti Environmental Service all equipment for PC-89 classrooms to sity of Water Communications, State University kanal and Green Peace management. A new (Finland), Association for Co-operation with provide training and educational process. of Architecture and Civil Engineering, St. Pedraft law “On Water Supply and Wastewater Nordic Countries (NORDEN), European Astersburg State Transport University and other Disposal” was also on the agenda. sociation of Underwater Images Festivals, the Teachers and students from PC-89 study institutes of higher education. interregional children’s club of cultural, ecomodern production with the help of SUE “VoIn October 2011, a group of volunteers from logical and patriotic activities “Neposeda” and dokanal of St. Petersburg”. The following acThe important field of Vodokanal’s work is the St. Petersburg Branch of Green Peace visited others. tivities are regularly conducted: active interaction with schools of St. Petersthe South-West Wastewater Treatment Plant. burg, Leningrad Region and other Russian trainings of PC-89 teachers and masters cities within the framework of different proat the production facilities of Vodokanal; grams and projects of the Youth Environmental Centre and museum complex “The Universe of consultations and assessment of eduWater». cational programs of the water and Interaction with federal and regional authorities SUE “Vodokanal of St. Petersburg” works in close interaction with 74 Development, the Ministry of Natural Resourcdischarge points of the municipal sewerage 75 the federal and regional authorities. es, the Foreign Ministry of Russia as well as the system of St. Petersburg or conduct inspecEuropean Bank for Reconstruction and Develtion of those units. opment. In 2011, the most important direction of these and St. Petersburg (the State Duma, federal In 2011, all 32 court judgments on claims activities was participation of Vodokanal’s executive authorities, St. Petersburg environDuring 2011, Vodokanal effectively interacted brought by St. Petersburg Environmental Prosspecialists in the development of the key law mental prosecutor’s office, committees of the with St. Petersburg Environmental Prosecuecutor’s Office against Vodokanal’s customfor the sector—“On Water Supply and WasteSt. Petersburg Government and other organitor’s Office. On the basis of the documents ers were made in favor of the Environmental water Disposal”. The State Duma passed this zations). and materials provided by the Company and Prosecutor’s Office, i.e. the position of Vodolaw in late 2011. to protect interests of the general public, St. kanal regarding the necessity to install, by the In particular, in 2011 with the active participaPetersburg Environmental Prosecutor’s Office customers, local wastewater treatment units Besides, representatives of Vodokanal were tion of Vodokanal employees such events as brought claims to St. Petersburg district courts at discharge points of the municipal sewerage involved in preparation of notes, comments IV Neva International Environment Congress against Vodokanal’s customers obliging them system was supported, all arguments and eviSUE “Vodokanal of St. Petersburg” // Sustainability Report 2011 and proposals on regulatory acts submitted for (the organizer was the Committee for Natuto install local wastewater treatment units at dences of the Company were accepted. approval to federal and regional authorities inral Resources and Environment Protection cluding the Regional Program “Clean Water of of the Federation Council), the Conference St. Petersburg” for 2011-2025, Rules of ren“Providing the compliance with environmental About the Company // Interaction with stakeholders dering public services to citizens, the federal laws in wastewater in St. Petersburg and the law “On amending the federal law “On natural Leningrad Region” (the organizer was St. Pemonopolies” and others. tersburg Environmental Prosecutor’s Office), the interagency meeting on compliance with Company specialists were involved in activilaws targeted to the protection of water bodties held on the aegis of the State Duma, the ies (the organizers were St. Petersburg EnviFederation Council, the Ministry of Regional ronmental Prosecutor’s Office, Department of Development of the Russian Federation, the Rosprirodnadzor in Northwest Federal District) Ministry of Natural Resources of the Russian were organized and held. Federation, the Ministry of Finance of the Russian Federation, the Ministry of Economic DeIn May 2011, the Ministry of Regional Develvelopment of the Russian Federation as well as opment of the Russian Federation and SUE the St. Petersburg Government, committees of “Vodokanal of St. Petersburg” participated in the city administration and the Legislative Asthe International Exhibition Berlin Wasser 2011 sembly of St. Petersburg. and had a joint exhibition stand. Vodokanal employees were involved in orgaIn June 2011, the final conference dedicated nization and proceedings of different conferto the 10th anniversary of the Northern Diences, meetings, panel discussions, workmension Environmental Partnership (NDEP) shops, forums and other activities held by activities in Russia was held together with the state authorities of the Russian Federation Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Economic Interaction with Participation in exhibitions the mass media and conferences Interaction with the mass media is a major part of Vodokanal’s information policy, and disclosure of information—one of the Company values. Vodokanal’s relations with the mass media are The digests of Vodokanal activities-related based on the principles of fairness in reporting, materials are presented to the Company 76 One of the tools of Vodokanal’s interaction with exhibition stand that represented modern wa77 reliability of information and efficient response. management on a daily basis. It helps to give the stakeholders is the participation in Russian ter and wastewater technologies applied in St. Vodokanal’s information policy aims to crea quick response to publications, provide necand international exhibitions and conferences. Petersburg as well as achievements of Vodoate a positive company image, improve muessary comments and clarifications and pinkanal in the field of environmental education. tual understanding between the company, its point new themes for interaction with the mass In January 2011, Vodokanal acted as one of Also in May 2011, Vodokanal was actively incustomers and the society, and to foster the media. the organizers of the NDEP Sustainability and volved in IV Neva Environment Forum. culture of water use and responsible attitude Water Resource Management Conference. towards the environment. Development of the Internet sphere was in VoAt this very conference it was officially anIn autumn 2011, Vodokanal had its exhibidokanal’s special focus in 2011. nounced about the establishment of Internation stands representing the operation of the The forms of interaction with the mass media The information about the Company activitional Advanced Water Technologies Centre. Company at XV International Forum “Russian are as follows: ties was regularly placed on the current webIn March 2011, Vodokanal took part in St. PeIndustrialist” and at VIII Exhibition and Confersites (Vodokanal’s official website www.vodotersburg Ecology Week and in XI International ence “Housing and Public Utilities of Russia”. preparation and distribution of press-rekanal.spb.ru and museum complex’s website Forum “Ecology of the Big City”. SUE “Vodokanal of St. Petersburg” // Sustainability Report 2011 leases and information reports about the www.vodokanal-museum.ru). In October 2011, Vodokanal St. Petersburg Company activities; In March 2011, the website of “The Universe In May 2011, Vodokanal participated in Wasrepresented its achievements at Cleantech of Water” museum complex won the All-Russer Berlin International 2011 (Germany). VoExpo 2011, the international clean technology response to the mass media’s inquiries; sia contest “Best Corporate Media 2011” in dokanal together with the Ministry for Regional exhibition organized in Lahti (Finland). About the Company // Interaction with stakeholders the nomination “Corporate Media. InternetDevelopment of the Russian Federation had an arrangement of interviews of Vodokanal’s Portal”. representatives in the mass media; In May 2011, the Company launched its Inpress conferences, briefings, round tatranet-portal vodokanal-info. Any employee of bles; Vodokanal, even those who do not have access to Internet, may read recent news about press-tours for journalists to Vodokanal’s operations and achievements of the Compafacilities; ny, learn about special proposals, discounts and activities for the Company employees, go initiating publications in printed and electhrough photo albums and video-films of varitronic media, and TV/radio items; ous corporate activities, exchange views with colleagues and etc. design and maintenance of websites describing the Company activities. In 2011, Vodokanal also continued to develop the awareness-raising Internet-portal about The mass media’s interest in Vodokanal activiwater da-voda.com created with the supties is growing every year. Over 8,000 materials port of Vodokanal. In December 2011, this about the Company activities were publicized (in Internet-portal became the prize-winner of the printed media, Internet, radio and TV) in 2011. prestigious international public relations conTo put this in perspective, in 2010, the number test PROBA-IPRA Golden World Awards 2011 of such materials was a little over 6,000. in the nomination “Best Social PR-Project”. Water Supply Water Supply system SUE “Vodokanal of St. Petersburg” provides potable water to the 79 population of 4,800,000 people, as well as to dozens thousands of companies and organizations in the city. Vodokanal activities related to iron. Recently, polyethylene pipes began to provision of water supply services gain in popularity, they are especially widely include the following: used for major repairs and reconstruction of water intake and water treatment; networks. water transportation. About 60% of water networks in St. Petersburg have been in operation for 20-50 years. The St. Petersburg takes water from surface and operating time of 23% of all networks is over 50 underground sources. The main water source years, and such networks need reconstruction is the Neva River; Vodokanal takes more than or replacement. 98% of water from it. St. Petersburg water supply system Pipeline diameters of the municipal water includes: network in St. Petersburg range from 50 mm (house connections) to 1.4 m (water pipelines). 9 waterworks; 200 boosting pumping stations; The bigger part (60%) of networks in the St. Pe6,665.22 km of water networks; tersburg water supply system is made of cast 2 sodium hypochlorite plants. Results of Activities in 2011 // Water Supply Adjusted capacity of water treatment plants: Plant Capacity Southern WTP 900,000 m3/day Results of Northern WTP Main WTP 608,000 m3/day 422,000 m3/day Activities in 2011 Volkovskaya WTP 211,000 m3/day Kolpino WTP 151,000 m3/day Zelenogorsk WTP 7,000 m3/day Kronstadt WTP 18,000 m3/day Adjusted capacity of WTPs means capacity of waterworks calculated in consideration of raw water quality deterioration, technical condition of water facilities and more stringent requirements to potable water quality in compliance with the Resolution of the Government of St. Petersburg No. 1270 dated October 21, 2008. Daily average supply of potable water to the city Kolpino WTP (first-lift pumping station, water treatment facilities, clean water 80 02.The Northern Water Supply Zone includes: The Northern water supply zone supplies water to major part of Krasnogvardeisky, Kalininsky, 81 reservoirs and second-lift pumping sta­ Vyborgsky districts and the half of Primorsky and tion); the Northern WTP (first-lift pumping stathe right-bank part of Nevsky districts. Year Water supply volume tion, water treatment facilities, clean wa2009 year 2,028,290 m3 Kronstadt WTP uses water from the Gulf ter reservoirs and second-lift pumping 2010 year 1,994,690 m3 of Finland (first-lift pumping station, water treatment facilities, clean water reservoirs station); 03. The Central Water Supply Zone includes: 2011 year 1,922,900 m3 and second-lift pumping station); Zelenogorsk WTP uses ground water (first-lift pumping station, water treatment ground water sources in Lomonosov facilities, clean water reservoirs and secMain WTP (first-lift pumping station, waWater losses on the networks amounted to district of the Leningrad Region; ond-lift pumping station); ter treatment facilities, clean water reser12.5% in 2011; the breakdown rate of water voirs and second-lift pumping station); SUE “Vodokanal of St. Petersburg” // Sustainability Report 2011 networks (number of damages per 10 km)— named boosting pumping stations of underground water sources of Kurortny 3.62. the third and fourth lift (Moskovskaya, district; Volkovskaya WTP (first-lift pumping staSt. Petersburg water supply system is based Frunzenskaya, Uritskaya, South-Western, tion, water treatment facilities, clean waon the area zoning principle. Water supply Rybatskaya, Kupchinskaya, Strelninskaya, named boosting pumping stations of the ter reservoirs and second-lift pumping zones are the parts of the general system Lomonosovskaya, LGU Petrodvortsova­ third and fourth lift (Murinskaya, Kushstation); within which the technical possibility for water ya Waterworks, Petrodvortsovaya Water­ elevskaya, Primorskaya, Severo-Primorbalance monitoring and water supply modes works, Pulkovskaya, Orlovskaya); skaya, Kolomyazhskaya, Ozero Dolgoe, named boosting pumping stations of the control exists. Martynovskaya, Parnasskaya, Osinovaya third and fourth lift (Vasileostrovskaya, boosting pumping stations of the third and Roshcha, Gorskaya, Pesochenskaya, No­ Gavanskaya, Petrogradskaya); Results of Activities in 2011 // Water Supply There are 3 developing water supply zones fourth lift; vo­selovskaya, Shuvalovskaya); with five big water treatment plants in St. Peboosting pumping stations of the third tersburg. water supply and distribution networks. boosting pumping stations of the third and fourth lift; and fourth lift; water supply and distribution networks. 01. The Southern Water Supply Zone includes: The South-West suburbs subzone can be segregated within the Southern water supply water supply and distribution networks. zone, which is located far from the City center The Central water supply zone supplies wathe Southern Water Treatment Plant and has its own water supply sources. Since November 2006 Sestroretsk WTP has ter to Central, Admiralteisky, Vasileostrovsky (SWTP) consists of the first-lift pumping been operating as a tertiary treatment facility and Petrogradsky districts, part of Moskovsky station, water treatment facilities, clean The system supplies water to Moskovsky, treating water from Northern WTP. and Kirovsky districts, and the southern parts water reservoirs and second-lift pumping Frunzensky, Krasnoselsky, Pushkinsky, Petof Primorsky, Vyborgsky, Kalininsky and Krasstation; rodvortsovy, Kolpinsky districts, the town of The Northern suburbs subzone can be segrenogvardeisky districts on the right bank of the Kronstadt and partially Nevsky and Kirovsky gated within the Northern water supply zone, Neva River. Dudergofskaya WTP uses ground water districts. which is located far from the City center and (first-lift pumping station, clean water has its own water supply sources. reservoirs and second-lift pumping sta­ tion); Water treatment technologies Treatment of water from which is hazardous in storage and transporta82 system of the used backwash water Oxidation of dissolved ferrous iron and blow83 surface sources tion) and ammonium sulfate. The chloramines equalization, treatment and utilization; up of dissolved carbonic acid is performed in produced in the treated water maintain the the aerator. To provide more enhanced oxiThe water treatment process at the key WTPs disinfecting effect not only in the process of sludge treatment; dation of iron and manganese compounds, taking water from St. Petersburg surface water treatment at waterworks, but also in the sodium hypochlorite solution is injected into sources (the Neva River and the Gulf of Fincourse of water transportation in the city water storage, preparation and dosing of water. land) includes the following stages: distribution networks. chemicals; The first-stage rapid filters have TRITON a two-stage water disinfection system, At the second stage of water disinfection the disinfection with sodium hypochlorite drainage system which represents the hemiphysical method (UV disinfection) is used. and ammonium sulfate. spheric channels located on the bottom and coagulation of pollutants (aluminium sulSt. Petersburg is the world’s first megapolis to covered by slotted elements. These elements fate is used), treat all potable water with ultraviolet. UV disinPotable water is also UV treated before are formed by stainless steel wire winding and fection kills viruses effectively, while chemical it goes to customers. welding to a guide frame of the element. The SUE “Vodokanal of St. Petersburg” // Sustainability Report 2011 flocculation (polyacrylamide-based catdisinfection suppresses microbes. Accordwire is profiled in such a way that slots widionic flocculant is used), ing to Rospotrebnadzor data viral Hepatitis A ening inwards are formed between its rows. sickness rate reduced almost 38 times during Such a solution ensures high reliability of the sand filtration in the contact clarifiers 2004-2011. Potable water treatment at drainage structure, and the widening form of (one-stage treatment scheme), Zelenogorsk WTP (groundwater) the slots decreases potential clogging of filIn the beginning of 2011, a new water treattering elements and simplifies the backwashsedimentation and sand filtration in rapid ment block at the Southern WTP (K-6 block), Zelenogorsk WTP takes raw water from undering. After the reconstruction of open filters, filters (two-stage treatment scheme) with the capacity of 350,000 m3/day, began to ground sources. The groundwater treatment TRITON drainage system allowed the use of supply water to St. Petersburg. process in Zelenogorsk aims at removing exdual-media bed without increasing its overall Results of Activities in 2011 // Water Supply when necessary (if water quality in the cessive concentrations of iron and mangaheight. The bottom filter bed is made of quartz Neva becomes worse or for odour and oil The water treatment technology used at this nese and consists of: sand; the upper filter bed—of anthracite. removal), the powdered activated carbon block includes the following stages: dosing system is used. aeration; The second stage of Zelenogorsk WTP is depreliminary ozonation; signed for further water treatment in terms of removal of the sludge resulting from iron and manganese removal and includes The two-stage integrated process of potable clarification: coagulation, flocculation, air oxidation of ferric hydroxide (III) by six Culligan pressure filters, Grundfos network water disinfection guarantees epidemiological sedimentation in lamella sedimentation means of filtration through the gravelpumps, flushing pumps for pressure filters, safety of water supply in St. Petersburg and full tank, sludge thickening, sludge recircusand media of the first-stage rapid filters; damper tanks, sodium hypochlorite dosing compliance of the microbiological parameters lation and removal; equipment, flow meters and chlorine analyzwith the current regulations. catalytic oxidation of manganese and its ers. filtration through dual media rapid gravseparation as dioxide on second-stage The integrated disinfection process includes, ity filters (sand/activated granular carpressure filters. The water treatment process management first of all, the chemical method using hazardbon); is fully automated. The plant operation data free chemicals—sodium hypochlorite (since Water is disinfected by sodium hypochlorite is displayed on the monitors of the plant dis2009 Vodokanal stopped using liquid chlorine, air-water system of filter backwashing; solution. patcher. Water quality control Water quality control at SUE “Vodokanal of St. Petersburg” is carried out at all stages—from raw water intake to a water meter at the house inlet. Water quality control at SUE “Vodokanal of The table of the main water quality parameters Tertiary water treatment techdium carbonate) preparation and dosing. In84 St. Petersburg” is implemented in accordance for 2011 is placed on the corporate website in 85 nologies used at Petrodvorets jection of calcium salts and carbonic acid to with the approved programs. the section “Water supply. Water quality”. and Sestroretsk WTP the treated water which results in pH increase, allows to slow down the corrosion process, The Working Program for Production ConThe Program for Production Control of Potable As a result of electrochemical corrosion of and in some cases — to stop oxidation of iron trol of Potable Water Quality in St. Petersburg Water Quality covers 306 additional reference steel water pipelines of St. Petersburg water in steel pipes thanks to formation of calcium was developed in accordance with SanPiN points and enables to perform more detailed distribution system, secondary pollution of pocarbonate film which isolates steel from water 2.1.4.1074-01 “Potable water. Hygiene reassessment of the water supply system. The table water with iron may occur. and dissolved oxygen contained in it. quirements to potable water supplied by cencontrol is performed according to the short-list tralized water supply systems. Quality control”. of 12 parameters of primary importance. Previously, both Petrodvorets and Sestroretsk The taken measures resulted in 2-5 times reIn 2006, this program was approved by St. PeWTPs used own surface water sources— duction of iron concentrations at Petrodvorets tersburg Department of Rospotrebnadzor and The reference points to be included into the Nikolsky pond and the Razliv Lake. Because and Sestroretsk reference points. adopted by the Chairman of the Committee for Program for Production Control were selected of excessive pollution of these water bodies, Energy and Engineering Support. based on еру systematic approach according SUE “Vodokanal of St. Petersburg” // Sustainability Report 2011 both plants started to operate in the tertiary to the following principle: waterworks — water treatment mode to treat potable water supTertiary water treatment techThe program includes 174 reference points. mains—city quarter network—customer. plied by the city waterworks. The tertiary treatnologies used at boosting waThe water quality at these reference points is ment is performed be means of existing water ter pumping stations monitored by 83 parameters. The monitoring results enable us to: treatment units, i.e. sand filters (one-stage treatment scheme). To improve potable water quality at remote Water quality is controlled by the following sections of the network, tertiary treatment groups of parameters: trace the dynamics of changes in qualitaTo prevent corrosion of steel pipes and reduce systems are constructed at the boosting wative characteristics of potable water at all iron content in the water undergoing tertiary ter pumping stations. Special filter medium composite; stages of water production and transporResults of Activities in 2011 // Water Supply treatment at Petrodvorets and Sestroretsk such as calcite, calcinated dolomite and etc. tation; WTPs, anticorrosion treatment is performed is used at these stations to ensure removal of organoleptic; including addition of calcium chloride and iron and reduction of water corrosion aggresidentify hot spots and problem sections soda ash to the treated water. siveness. chemical (organic and non-organic); of water network; Both plants have equipment for reception, By using these systems we can simplify the microbiological; prioritize investments into implementadilution and dosing of 32% calcium chloride operation of the tertiary treatment facilities, tion of technologies (selection of water solutions, and systems of 10% soda ash (sosince no chemicals are used. parasitological (Lamblia cysts); treatment technologies, reconstruction of the existing facilities and capital repair virological (presence of hepatitis A virus of water networks, change of hydraulic antigen and rotavirus antigen); modes of water system); hydro-biological (phytoand zooplankevaluate the efficiency of corrective acton); tions. radiation safety. Achievements of 2011 The monitoring results show that potable water in St. Petersburg is harmless in terms of its chemical composition and safe in terms of epidemiological and radiation conditions. 1. Levels of water quality control were identified in the distribution water net86 Commissioning of a new water treatment 87 work. block (K-6) at the Southern WTP on-line process control with use of autoThe monitoring results show that potable wamatic analyzers and systems of automatter in St. Petersburg is harmless in terms of ed continuous monitoring; its chemical composition and safe in terms of In the beginning of 2011, a new 350,000 m3/day through rapid dual media (sand/activated epidemiological and radiation conditions. water treatment block was put into operation at granular carbon) gravity filters. laboratory control; the Southern WTP. Along with control devices, biomonitoring sysSodium hypochlorite with the addition of amcontrol by an independent organization— tem developed by scientists of St. Petersburg Advanced technological solutions used at this monia sulfate is used for water disinfection; Water Research and Control Center; Research Center of the Russian Academy of block can handle any changes of raw water then the water is UV treated. The water used Sciences is used at all city water intakes to quality. The block applies preliminary ozonafor filter backwashing is not discharged into control by Rospotrebnadzor. control quality of water in the water source, the tion of water—ozone is added to water before the Neva River, but treated here again. Thus, Neva River. the treatment process to improve it considerthe negative environmental impact is reduced SUE “Vodokanal of St. Petersburg” // Sustainability Report 2011 The automated analyzers are installed on all Prior to the treatment process, water from the ably. The treatment process comprises two considerably. Treatment of the resulting sludge stages of water treatment. Signals from the Neva River is monitored by crayfish. Special stages: first is clarification, coagulation and is also provided. equipment are sent to the control room and sensors that register on-line crayfish cardiac sedimentation in lamella tanks; then filtration process engineers, thus providing for the realrhythm are attached to their shells. If there time control of the process. are toxic substances in water, crayfish cardiac 2. rhythm changes and a relevant signal is transPilot operation of the Networks Maintenance In 2011, 23,217 water samples were analyzed mitted to the control room. and Repairs Management Information System by 83 parameters. Minor deviations from regThis biomonitoring system is improved conulatory requirements with regard to total iron tinuously. Results of Activities in 2011 // Water Supply In 2011, the Networks Maintenance and Reautomatic planning of resource requirepairs Management Information System was ments for execution of works; put into pilot operation. automatic preparation of purchase orNetworks Maintenance and Repairs Manageders for spare parts and supplementary ment Information System supports: materials taking into account the available stock of inventories, inventories orautomatic preparation of Vodokanal’s dered from the suppliers, minimum balProduction Program for all departments ance and delivery cycle; and types of work; automatic preparation of work tasks inpreparation of a company-wide eleccluding lists of operations and appointtronic register of passports for Vodoment of skilled personnel for each opkanal’s facilities which includes informaeration, lists of required materials, spare tion about each facility; keeping standard parts and special vehicles; control of maintenance charts and maintenance work progress; specification charts, production history; online control of the Production Program online control of compliance with norms system will provide water to the new decheniya ave. to Volkhonskoye highway is performance by each team; of the Production Program performance; velopments in the south-eastern part of completed. St.Petersburg. The boosting pumping online control of availability of required analysis of performance indicators and station “Moskovskaya Slavyanka” will be The following construction, reconstruction and materials, spare parts, special vehicles criteria of production activities. built in 2012. modernization projects are being implementand personnel for each team; ed to supply water to new industrial areas: In 2012, we will work to put the Networks The following actions for construction, reconaccounting of tangible costs, labour inMaintenance and Repairs Management Infor88 struction and modernization of pipelines and Construction and rehabilitation of the wa89 puts and operating time of special vehimation System into full-scale operation. networks are performed to supply water to ter supply network in the industrial zone cles used for each assignment; new housing development areas: “Mar’ino”. The construction of water supply system Construction of water networks in Metal3. Water supply from underground sources for the western part of Vasilyevsky Island lostroy. is underway. The purpose is to supply wa3.1. Reserve water supply ter for the new hydraulic fill areas and to Water supply network along Gorskoe improve the reliability of water supply to highway from Pesochniy pumping station A new reserve water supply facility was put The construction and installation works for the Vasilyevsky Island. Water supply pipelines to the traffic interchange at the cross of into operation in the area of Pulkovskaya water reserve water supply in 59-b area of Primorsky along Robespiera and Petrovskaya emWestern High-Speed Diameter and the supply substation (3 wells). district (18 Turistskaya str.) and Vyborgsky disbankments are completed. ring-road is built. It will provide water supThe design works for the reserve water supply trict (“Parkhomenko” sector) have begun. ply to the industrial zone south-east of SUE “Vodokanal of St. Petersburg” // Sustainability Report 2011 in the area of Kolpino WTP are completed. Construction of the third outlet from the the crossroad, including “Kamenka” nonNorthern WTP to Murinskaya pumping residential area. The construction works station is 70% complete. The 12.5 km are performed from the cross of Savush3.2. Centralized water supply to households long outlet pipeline from the NWTP will kina st. and Primorsky ave. to Gorskoe ensure stable water supply to the future highway via Lahta, Olgino and Konnaya Currently the designing of Molodezhnoye and Well water intakes and water supply networks developments in the northern part of the Lahta. Dyuny (“Rzhavaya kanava”) water treatment are being designed to ensure reliable wacity. In addition, it will be possible to replants is performed. Its purpose is local ground ter supply to the villages of Krasavitsa and habilitate two existing pipelines from the Construction, reconstruction and modwater sources effective use for the water supReshetnikovo (1st stage of new water intake Northern WTP to Murinskaya pumping ernization of water supply system of 6 Results of Activities in 2011 // Water Supply ply of the Kurortny district and St. Petersburg construction in v. Krasavitsa). station. and 6A city quarters north of Novoselov suburbs development. Street. Construction of water supply networks to “Severnaya Dolina” and 25-A “ShuvaloConstruction of water pipeline from 4. Modernization and reconstruction of water pipelines vo-Ozerki” city areas is ongoing. Southern WTP to Southern CHP has beand networks gun. Construction, reconstruction and modernization of water supply pipelines to the Water networks are being built in Olgino and In 2011, the following actions for modernizaWater supply pipeline construction works northern-seaside part of St. Petersburg Volodarskiy communities to provide centraltion and reconstruction of pipelines and neton the Martynova quay and Severnaya are near completion. ized water supply to households. works were performed: Doroga in the western part of Krestovsky All in all, the volume of completed works under island are completed. Construction of pipelines to ensure relithe water network rehabilitation, repairs and A new pipeline laid at the bottom of the able water supply to the existing customconstruction projects in 2011 exceeded 90 km Gulf of Finland to Kronstadt was put into Construction of water supply pipelines ers and new developments in Krasnoe (excluding the works performed by Employer’s operation on August 12, 2011. This insystem with the total length of 25 km from Selo has begun. Construction of water Office for Construction and Capital Repairs of verted siphon ensures required reliability Kolpino WTP to Pulkovo water supply supply pipelines from Narodnogo OpolEngineering and Energy Complex). of Kronstadt district water supply. system is at the final stage. This pipeline Prospects of water supply development 5. Implementation of the St. Petersburg long-term target 90 The Regional Program “Clean Water of St. Petersburg in 2011-2025” 91 program “On Energy Saving and Energy Performance approved by the St. Petersburg Government Decree No. 625 dated Improvement of Water Supply Systems in the Southern Zone 24.05.2011 was launched in St. Petersburg in 2011. of St. Petersburg till 2012”. Implementation of water supply management advanced energy-efficient pumping equipThe St. Petersburg water supply development New water treatment blocks at Main, system with remote reading of water meters ment and optimal water supply performance projects are aimed at: Northern and Kolpino WTPs will be of Vodokanal customers in the Southern wacontrol. The project will lead to significant rebuilt by 2016. ter supply zone continued in 2011 under the duction of energy consumption, breakdown overall transition to more effective, adSt. Petersburg long-term target program “On rates and water losses. vanced water treatment technologies at A new 800,000 m3/day water treatment Energy Saving and Energy Performance Imthe WTPs; block will be built under the Northern WTP provement of Water Supply Systems in the In 2011, the management system was implereconstruction project. Moreover, construcSouthern Zone of St. Petersburg till 2012”. mented at South-West, Rybatskaya, Kupchindevelopment of suburban water supply tion of other facilities (in particular, chemical SUE “Vodokanal of St. Petersburg” // Sustainability Report 2011 skaya, and some numbered boosting pumping systems using local underground water production and storage facilities, new flush Reliable and effective water supply system, stations. sources; water/sludge treatment plants), rehabilitation water networks monitoring, efficient use of reof the existing, and construction of new clean sources and cost saving are the main objecRe-laying of internal pipelines and rehabilitarenovation of water networks includwater tanks is planned. tives of the project. tion of one second-lift pumping station are uning replacement of reinforced-concrete Two new water treatment plants using loderway at Southern WTP. pipes; cal groundwater sources and a water supply The Southern zone water supply management and distribution system will be constructed by system comprises the hydraulics monitoring It is planned to complete all works under the anti-corrosion protection of steel pipe2015 to supply water to customers in Kurortny system, hydraulic control improvement tools, management system project for the Southern lines; district of St. Petersburg. Results of Activities in 2011 // Water Supply automated calculation of water balance, new water supply zone in 2012. completion of the St. Petersburg water Future capacity requirements of the water supply management system; supply system including those of WTPs are determined in consideration of the St. Petersburg building of networks and facilities to supdevelopment plans, on the one hand, and the ply water to new development areas and existing water consumption trends and the private households in the suburbs of citizens’ more careful attitude towards potable St. Petersburg. water and environment, on the other hand. Over the last decade, water consumption has With the transition to advanced water treatbeen decreasing steadily and, accordingly, ment technologies and abandonment of the water flow rates and distribution losses resingle-stage water treatment process, the induced more than three times. habitants of St. Petersburg will get safe and harmless potable water meeting the sanitaryBy 2025, the water consumption per capita epidemiologic regulations and the requireand distribution losses in St. Petersburg will ments of the World Health Organization. reach the level of the leading European countries. Re-arrangement of the WTPs’ water supply trict and to the hydraulic fill areas north of Lisiy capital costs can be reduced and the need for intervention in the meter operation, to evaluate zones is planned to provide customers with Nos community. new transport corridors in the established city automatically the condition of networks and safe potable water and to improve the effienvironment is not so big. changes of flow rates, and to identify leaks in ciency of the water supply system. For examIt is also planned to supply water to the dethe water supply networks. ple, Volkovskaya WTP in the historical centre veloping south-eastern part of St. Petersburg The plan is to accelerate the water network of the City will be transformed into a third-lift from Kolpino WTP. Construction of water pipereconstruction process reaching the 200 The project will comprise large-scale modernpumping station where water will be supplied lines from Kolpino WTP to Pulkovo water net92 km/year level to overcome the pipe aging ization of the boosting pumping stations in93 from Main WTP via the newly-built pipeline works with the Moskovskaya Slavyanka pumpproblem and to reduce the breakdown rate. cluding the replacement of pumps, installation along Sinopskaya emb. and from Southern ing station, and rehabilitation of Kolpino WTP of frequency converters to control pressure in WTP via the rehabilitated pipeline along Sowill enable supply of good-quality potable Through these efforts, the network breakdown the network, and implementation of a pump fiyskaya Street. water to the existing and future customers. rate will be reduced to the level of the frontcontrol system to control pump operation usSuch scheme will also reduce water distriburank European cities. ing the pressure measurement data from the In the western part of Vasilyevsky Island the tion costs and improve the reliability of water The first-priority task is to replace reinforcednetwork checkpoints. To ensure reliable wanew hydraulic fill areas are under developsupply. concrete pipelines having the diameter over ter supply in the event of power outage, the ment. Vasileostrovskaya CHP-7 will use pota700mm because, generally, any breakdown pumping stations will be ranked as power ble water. A water supply system for the westThe rearrangement of WTPs’ water supply of such pipeline leads to big water leakage (in consumers of the special I Category Reliabilern part of Vasilyevsky Island is being built. It zones has entailed significant changes in the many cases the neighboring area gets floodity Group which means that the third indepenwill supply water to the new areas and improve layout of water mains. Integrated water transed and both the municipal and private propdent (reserve) power supply unit (diesel power reliability of water supply to Vasilyevsky Island. port systems from the main sources to intererty is damaged). It is planned to replace all plant) will be installed for them. SUE “Vodokanal of St. Petersburg” // Sustainability Report 2011 mediate boosting pumping stations, large 276.6 km of reinforced-concrete pipelines by Construction and rehabilitation of water pipeconsumers and big development areas, were 2016. Among the unsolved problems is water supply lines along Gorskoe highway from the road singled out. of private households in St. Petersburg. Now interchange at the cross of Western HighThe water supply management system project they take water from nearby hydrants or drawSpeed Diameter and ring-road to Gorskaya The water transport systems improve the unis ongoing. The pilot project of the pumping wells in their estates. By 2025, water pipelines pumping station, and rehabilitation of Gorclear and complicated layout of the existing station modernization including sustainable to 71 communities in the St. Petersburg terriskaya pumping station and water pipelines networks. Wherever possible, the existing use of resources was implemented in 2008 in tory will be constructed so that private housein Sestroretsk are planned to ensure reliable mains are reconstructed (sometimes using the Uritskaya pumping station zone. As a reholds will be able to connect to them and water supply to the customers in Kurortny disno-dig technologies). With such approach, sult, energy consumption reduced by 42%, have access to the centralized water supply. Results of Activities in 2011 // Water Supply water losses reduced by 39% and the breakAt present, construction of water networks is down rate — by 32%. The modernization of underway in Volodarskiy and Olgino communipumping stations in the Southern water supply ties. Water supply systems for Molodezhnoye, zone will be completed in 2012. Design works Lisiy Nos, Lahta, Toriki and Martyshkino will be for the Central and Northern water supply designed in 2012. zones are underway. The above actions are aimed at: Each of the water supply zones will have its water metering system, moreover, all comProvision of safe potable water to the mercial water meters on the consumer side customers in St. Petersburg; will be upgraded to support automatic transfer of measurement results. Having such system, Reliability of water supply services; it will be possible to receive real-time data on water consumption and the quantity of water Improved energy efficiency and implesupplied to a relevant zone. The operators will mentation of the energy saving policy; be able to monitor online any failures of measurement instruments or potential customer 100% access to centralized water supply. Wastewater Disposal Wastewater Disposal System St.Petersburg system of wastewater disposal and treatment is 95 a complex of interconnected engineering facilities which provide collection of wastewater from customers, its transportation and treatment at wastewater treatment plants. St.Petersburg has a combined sanitation sysThe main cause of partial discharges of untem: treated wastewater into St.Petersburg water bodies is the insufficient length of intercepting 70% of the territory is connected to the pipelines and sewers. combined sewerage system which collects domestic and industrial wastewaAnnually, Vodokanal reduces the amount of ter as well as surface (rainfall, snowmelt) untreated wastewater discharges, eliminating runoffs; direct discharge pipes and delivering wastewater to wastewater treatment plants. 30% of the territory (Vasilievsky Island, as well as new construction areas and subCollection, transportation and treatment of urbs) is sewered according to a separate wastewater generated in the city are perResults of Activities in 2011 // Wastewater Disposal scheme (surface runoff is collected sepformed by a complicated system: arately from other wastewater). Length of sewerage networks— As of 01.01.2012, 94% of wastewater is treat8,245.6 km, ed in St. Petersburg. Around 6% of wastewater is still discharged directly into the water bodies Length of tunnel collectors—232.17 km, untreated. Wastewater is discharged through direct discharge points managed by VodokanNumber of pumping stations—131 pcs, al and industrial organizations. Number of wastewater treatAs of 31.03.2012, SUE “Vodokanal of St. Pement plants— tersburg” has the following discharge points: 14 pcs, 116 direct discharge pipes for combined Number of sludge incineration and domestic wastewater; and 1,082 plants—3 pcs. rainwater discharge points and stormwater tanks; Sewerage (courtyard, district, street) networks perform disposal of domestic, industrial and 13 discharge points for backwash water surface (rainfall, snowmelt) wastewater to the from the waterworks; system of tunnel collectors and further to the wastewater treatment plants. Pipeline diameters of the municipal sewerage Tunnel sewers are the basic mains for collectThree catchment areas – “North”, “CenPetrodvorets WWTP accepts wastewater from network range from 100 mm (courtyard neting and transporting wastewater to wastewater” and “South”—are established in the town of Petrodvorets, partially, from the town works) to 1.5 m. Pipelines with diameters of up ter treatment plants. These collectors (1.5 m­St. Petersburg; each includes severof Lomonosov. Wastewater treatment plants of to 500 mm make up 85% of the total length of 4.8 m diameter) were installed by shield me­thod al sewerage districts. the towns of Kolpino, Metallostroi and Pontonny all the sewerage networks. at the depth of 7-90 m. 96 provide complete wastewater disposal servic97 The main material of sewerage pipes is reinThe catchment area “North” includes the foles to Kolpinsky district. Wastewater from Kroforced concrete (79.34% of all the networks). The design capacity of sewerage pumping stalowing wastewater treatment complexes: the nstadt is treated at Kronstadt WWTP. WastewaPolyvinylchloride and polyethylene pipes are tions at the sewerage networks ranges from Northern WWTP, Sestroretsk WWTP, Zelenogoter from the towns of Pushkin and Pavlovsk and widely used in recent years. They are used 300 m3/day to 1 Mio. m3/day. rsk WWTP, Repino WWTP, Molodezhnoe WWTP. communities of Pushkinsky district is treated at mainly for network rehabilitation. The Northern WWTP (village of Olgino) collects Pushkin WWTP. wastewater from the Neva right-bank territories: Nevsky (the right-bank), Krasnogvardeisky, KaSt.Petersburg is the first megapolis Adjusted capacity of wastewater treatment plants lininsky, Vyborgsky and Primorsky districts. in the world to solve the problem of Sestroretsk WWTP accepts wastewater from wastewater sludge utilization. Adjusted capacity of wastewater treatment plants, m3/day* `000 m3/day* the population and customers of Sestroretsk Before the commissioning of the sludge inCentral Wastewater Treatment Plant 800.0 and neighboring towns of Gorskaya, Alexancineration plants, dewatered sludge was disdrovskaya, Razliv, Tarkhovka, Kurort and indusposed in full to landfills for storage. SUE “Vodokanal of St. Petersburg” // Sustainability Report 2011 Northern Wastewater Treatment Plant 600.0 trial zones of Beloostrov. Sludge incineration allowed to dispose South-West Wastewater Treatment Plant 290.0 Zelenogorsk WWTP accepts wastewater from 68,815.7 tons of dry solids (t DS) in 2008; the residential areas, recreation centers and 92,236.3 t DS in 2009; 100,512.7 t DS in Petrodvorets Wastewater Treatment Plant 65.0 organizations of the towns of Zelenogorsk and 2010; and 104,369.6 t DS in 2011. Pushkin Wastewater Treatment Plant 65.0 Ushkovo. Results of Activities in 2011 // Wastewater Disposal Repino WWTP accepts wastewater from the 60.0 Advantages of incineration: Kolpino Wastewater Treatment Plant towns of Solnechnoe, Komarovo and Repino of Kronstadt Wastewater Treatment Plant 22.0 Kurortny district of St.Petersburg. 10-times reduction of generated waste Sestroretsk Wastewater Treatment Plant 17.0 amount; The catchment area “Center” incudes the CenRepino Wastewater Treatment Plant 10.0 tral Wastewater Treatment Plant complex (the no pathogenic microflora and unpleasBely Island). Pontonny Wastewater Treatment Plant 10.0 ant odor in ash; The Central Wastewater Treatment Plant (CWZelenogorsk Wastewater Treatment Plant 9.0 WTP) collects wastewater from the left bank of concentration of harmful compounds in the Neva River: Vasileostrovsky, Centralny, AdMetallostroi Wastewater Treatment Plant 7.6 treated gases generated in the course miralteisky, Frunzensky, Moskovsky and part of of sludge incineration meets the requireMolodezhnoe Wastewater Treatment Plant (2 WWTPs) 0.7 Kirovsky and Nevsky districts. ments of the Russian Federation and the European Union; The catchment area “South” includes the * Adjusted capacity of wastewater treatment plants is calculated for dry weather conditions taking into account wastewater quality reSouth-West Wastewater Treatment Plant, Kolpiquirements in accordance with the Resolution of St.Petersburg Government No. 1270 dated October 21, 2008 (as amended by the use of heat for hot water supply and no WWTP, Metallostroi WWTP, Pontonny WWTP, Resolution of St. Petersburg Government No. 1384 dated 30.11.2009). heating of buildings; Petrodvorets WWTP, Kronstadt WWTP, Pushkin WWTP. energy production by means of steam The results of the year 2011 showed that the daily average amount of treated wastewater was SWTP collects wastewater from a part of utilization at SWTP and CWWTP. 2.2 Mio. m3/day. Kirovsky and Krasnoselsky districts, as well as from the town of Strelna. Wastewater Treatment Technologies Flue gases of all SIPs go through a three-stage purification process The incineration process is going on in fluidFlue gases of all SIPs go through a three-stage 98 Vodokanal’s wastewater treatment plants are implementing the 99 ized-bed incinerators at the temperature of purification process. technologies ensuring wastewater treatment in compliance with 870°С. Treated gases emitted into the atmosphere at the Russian norms and the requirements of the Baltic Marine Enall the SIPs meet the requirements of the Eurovironment Protection Commission (HELCOM) in terms of nutrients The heat generated in the process of incinerapean Committee Directive 2000/76. removal. tion is used for technical purposes, namely, for space heating and electric energy proGross emission of pollutants from all the SIPs The main wastewater treatment methods aprequirements for nutrient removal. Therefore, duction, thus enabling SUE “Vodokanal of is within the limits of maximum permissible plied by SUE “Vodokanal of St.Petersburg” are at present the chemical-biological wastewater St.Petersburg” to achieve significant savings emission stated by Rosprirodnadzor. as follows: treatment process is implemented at Vodoof energy resources. On-line control instruments are used at all the kanal’s wastewater treatment plants to comIn 2011, 6.2% (8,198 kW.*h.) of electrical plants to analyze the composition of emitted mechanical treatment; bine enhanced nutrient removal through bioenergy consumed at the Northern WWTP flue gases. Besides, ZAO “Tsikv” (Water Quality logical treatment and chemical phosphorus was produced by the steam generator of the Control Center) performs expanded monitorchemical and biological treatment; precipitation. Iron sulfate (Ferix) is mainly used SUE “Vodokanal of St. Petersburg” // Sustainability Report 2011 sludge incineration plant; 6.6% (2,328 kW.*h.) ing of gas composition. as a chemical. of energy consumed at SWTP was produced wastewater disinfection; SUE “Vodokanal of St. Petersburg” has been by the steam generator. Moreover, the SIP at SWTP applies a unique searching for the most effective chemicals to biomonitoring system. The indicators of flue sludge treatment and utilization. be used in this technology. In November 2011, The Central WWTP used the heat generated gas quality are the giant African snails which laboratory tests of aluminum sulfate applicaResults of Activities in 2011 // Wastewater Disposal in the incineration process for the heating of react not only to one-time emissions, but also The mechanical treatment is designed for tion were conducted at a number of wastewabuildings and other production needs, thus to minimal amounts of concentrated hazardwastewater clarification. This block includes ter treatment plants. enabling the Company to cover over 50% ous substances, as well as to synergistic effect screens, grit removal units, primary sedimen(8,175 Gcal) of the total heat demand. of various pollutants. tation tanks and scum removal units. SUE “Vodokanal of St.Petersburg” has been constantly upgrading technologies of biologiThe biological treatment stage is the main cal nutrients removal from wastewater. wastewater treatment process before wasteThe modern biological treatment technology water is discharged into the water body. It UCT (University of Cape Town) has been imincludes aeration tanks and secondary sediplemented at SWTP, CWWTP (1 section), Sementation tanks. The biological treatment stroretsk WWTP, Petrodvorets WWTP, Repino process is performed by means of activated WWTP, Pushkin WWTP. sludge biocoenosis in the presence of atmospheric oxygen. Activated sludge is a biocoeWorks on the reconstruction of the aeration nosis inhabited by different bacteria, protozoa tanks for enhanced nutrients removal by introand multicellular organisms which modify conducing JHB technology (University of Johantaminants contained in wastewater. nesburg) are going on at the Central WWTP. Reconstruction of wastewater treatment units Until recently, only mechanical and biologiat the CWWTP is performed together with incal treatment was implemented at wastewaternational experts. In 2011, the permanent ter treatment plants, but it did not ensure the chemical dosing unit aimed at chemical phosquality of treated effluent stated by HELCOM phorus removal was put into operation. Advantages of modern nutrients removal technologies: possibility to maintain the required oxygenated condition in aerobic zones Wastewater Quality flexible management of the system— by introducing a method of controlled air feed according to oxygen analyzer Control transition zones (anoxic/aerobic) are readings (cascade method). available; Efficiency of domestic wastewater treatment optimal operation of anaerobic and anoxic at Vodokanal’s WWTPs on the average is quite zones—there are mixers and no dissolved high: suspended solids, BOD—over 90%; total oxygen available in the zones; phosphorus—88% and total nitrogen—around 70%. possibility to enhance the internal pro­ Wastewater quality control at Vodokanal’s facilities is carried cesses—internal recirculation pumps are The 2011 results show that phosphorus and 100 out in accordance with Wastewater Quality Assessment Programs 101 available; nitrogen concentrations in the effluent of approved by the Neva-Ladoga Basin Water Authority and RospotrebVodokanal’s wastewater treatment plants nadzor Authority. possibility to perform on-line process comply in full with HELCOM requirements: adjustment—on-line control and process total nitrogen concentration—10 mg/l and automation instruments are available; phosphorus—0.34 mg/l. Wastewater quality control is performed: beroptic sensor attached to its back. Sensors register the crayfish’s heart rate in a real-time in the inlet of wastewater treatment plants, mode. The bioelectronic control system monitors simultaneous influence of many factors on Reduction of nitrogen and phosphorus content in the outlet of wastewater treatment water—crayfish habitat. in effluent (WWTP) plants, SUE “Vodokanal of St.Petersburg” per­ SUE “Vodokanal of St. Petersburg” // Sustainability Report 2011 mg/l at untreated wastewater discharge forms continuous monitoring of qual10 10 points, ity of wastewater discharged by the 10 9,6 9,6 9,3 customers into the municipal sewer9,0 8,7 Nitrogen, mg/l at WTP backwash water discharge points. age system. 8 Results of Activities in 2011 // Wastewater Disposal Wastewater quality control is carried out by Around 2,000 on-site sampling tasks are acmonitoring physical and chemical parameters, complished monthly. In the course of 2011, Phosphorus, 6 mg/l microbiological and parasitological paramover 6,000 customers were controlled by Voeters. The monitoring of wastewater flow and dokanal. The customers are charged for exdischarge is carried out at over 300 points by ceeding regulatory limits. Payments are made 4 up to 30 parameters at each point. to the special Vodokanal’s account. Money from this account is spent only for wastewater Moreover, since 2011, the South-West Wastequality improvement actions and payment, by 2 1,6 water Treatment Plant has been using the sysVodokanal, of the fee for the negative environ1,3 0,9 0,8 tem of effluent quality biomonitoring. Crayfish mental impact. 0,6 0,5 0,3 play the role of controllers: it is Australian Red 0 Claw Crayfish in warm seasons, and Native The main objective of customers’ wastewater 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Neva crayfish—in cold seasons. The bioelecquality control is to minimize the pollution of tronic system used at SWTP to control toxicowater bodies with industrial wastewater. logical safety of the effluent was designed by In order to improve the environmental situaWWTP and Petrodvorets WWTP. Full-scale triSt. Petersburg Scientific Research Centre for Due to the fact that the current system used tion of the city’s water bodies and in the Gulf als focused on assessing the alternative methEcological Safety, Russian Academy of Scito control the discharge of pollutants and payof Finland, a certain amount of effluent underods of wastewater disinfection (by applying ences. In case of water quality deterioration ment of the negative impact fee is not efficient goes disinfection. UV disinfection technology 12% peracetic acid (PACS12) at Kronstadt a sensitive crayfish will feel it at once; operaenough (only 1% of customers meet wasteis implemented at the South-West Wastewater WWTP) were conducted. tors will not only notice the change in crayfish water quality requirements), SUE “Vodokanal Treatment Plant, Sestroretsk WWTP, Repino behavior but receive a signal from a special fiof St.Petersburg” conducts additional work focused on interaction with customers. Vodokanal together with its customers performs At the same time, it will enable Vodokanal to reduce expenses for the overall control of its Achievements of 2011 joint inspections of on-site networks and procustomers since Vodokanal will need only to duction premises in order to determine the check (verify) the customers’ declaration of causes of excess concentration of pollutants wastewater quality. in the effluent. Vodokanal also provides advisory assistance with regard to developing posSUE “Vodokanal of St.Petersburg” dissible measures to reduce irrational water use, charges wastewater into 77 water eliminating the sources of excess concentrabodies of St.Petersburg and its subtion of pollutants and selecting methods of urbs. Therefore, regular monitoring pollutants removal from wastewater. of water bodies,—wastewater accepModernization and rehabilitation of sewerage networks tors,—is necessary to be performed. In 2011, 145 customers developed water-pro102 103 tective measures and undertook obligations to In 2011, samples were collected at 83 points The following works were complet7 discharges at local wastewater treat03. ment plants in the towns of Pesochny (2 reduce discharge of pollutants. of 35 water bodies. ed under the Neva Untreated WasteAbout 17,100 chemical element tests are carwater Discharge Closure Program: discharges), Pargolovo (4 discharges), OsinoIn 2013, when the Federal Law “On water supried out per year. vaya Roshcha (1 discharges) were eliminated. ply and wastewater disposal” comes into efIn late October 2011, the next con01. Design works to channel flush water fect, planning and implementation of actions In addition to this, in view of the limited number struction stage of the Northern Tunnel 04. focused on reaching the regulatory limits for of points managed by state water control auCollector extension was completed; 5 unfrom Petrodvorets and Kronstadt WTPs wastewater quality will be obligatory. The law thorities, in recent years Vodokanal has been treated wastewater discharges located along to the sewerage system were completed. stipulates the customers’ obligation to declare conducting intensive researches (including Vyborgskaya and Arsenalnaya Embankments wastewater quality; the obligation of certain the ones performed together with scientific (30,000 m3/day) were connected to the sewcustomer categories to plan and implement organizations). During 2010-2011 the polluerage system. The following works were completSUE “Vodokanal of St. Petersburg” // Sustainability Report 2011 water-protective measures; possibility for custion in the Neva River from Volodarsky Bridge ed under the Programme on Enhanctomers to use money, envisaged for the payto Arsenalnaya str. was reduced more than Main works included: ing Reliability of St. Petersburg Tunment of excess concentration of pollutants in 10-times. Such a substantial pollution reducnel Sewerage System: the effluent, for the construction of wastewater tion was caused by the connection of untreatconstruction of the second tunnel line— treatment plants; as well as other provisions ed wastewater discharges to the Northern 12.3 km long; Designs of the following construction 01. Results of Activities in 2011 // Wastewater Disposal to be elaborated and established in 2012 by Tunnel Collector (I and II stages). This fact was works were developed: a number of by-laws. Implementation of these also confirmed by the decrease of bacterial deepening of 10 shafts in the second norms will require to expand Vodokanal’s inpollution at the water intake of the Main Water tunnel line; construction of the ring tunnels along teraction with its customers and join efforts Treatment Plant. Fontanka Embankment; aimed at improving the condition of the city construction of Novoorlovsky tunnel secwater bodies. SUE “Vodokanal of St.Petersburg” intends to ond line; construction on the ring tunnel along continue works on investigating water quality Pet­ rovs­ kaya and Petrogradskaya Em­ The declaration of wastewater quality will be and pollution genesis in the coastal zone of construction of URS-422 shaft; bankments; based on the results of chemical analysis perSt.Petersburg (in the water area of the Neva, formed through the request of the customer the Malaya Nevka, the Izhory, the Suzdalskoe construction and equipping of 6 NTC construction of the backup tunnel from the by accredited laboratories. The declaration (Verhnee) Lake, the Neva Bay and the eastshafts located along Pirogovskaya Emshield chamber No. 3 to the main pumping mechanism increases the customers’ attenern part of the Gulf of Finland) thus assessing bankment; station; tion and responsibility for excess concentrathe efficiency of current activities focused on tion of pollutants in the effluent (performance elimination of untreated wastewater dischargconstruction of micro-tunnels located reconstruction of the main influent tunnel to of laboratory control of wastewater composies and phased introduction of new wastewater along Pirogovskaya Embankment. the Central WWTP along Gapsalskaya str. tion, selection of water-protective measures). treatment technologies. The reconstruction of the sewerage construction of the tunnel collector along 02. Grazhdansky Avenue, in the section of pipelines along Primorsky Avenue, Mytninskaya Embankment and Gapsalskaya str. shaft 127b/с-127a; resulted in closing 3 untreated wastewater discharges. reconstruction of the tunnel collector along Rizhsky Avenue. Construction of the 2nd stage of the the shaft 611/2 (length—6,940.7m) was The following works were executed at the 02. backup tunnel collector from Vernosti completed. 02. Northern Wastewater Treatment Plant: 04. The use of the advanced technology of biological monitoring of flue gas purificastr. to Murinsly Ruchei near Muzhestva Square tion with the help of Giant African snails was has begun. The construction and reconstruction The permanent ferric sulfate dosing syscontinued. works at the facilities of the southern part tem was implemented to ensure a stable This innovative project may be the foundation 03. Works to introduce new technologies of St. Petersburg (including the sewer process of chemical phosphate precipifor practical application of the integrated bioin rehabilitation of wastewater networks from the sewerage pumping station tation. The dosing system is functioning logical monitoring system to warn the populaand plants have been carried out. For inNo.6 to the sewerage pumping station in the automatic mode, no operators are tion about the atmospheric air pollution risks. stance, trenchless technologies were used to “Slavyanka”, collector from the sewerage needed. The statistical databank should therefore be reconstruct pipelines. Shafts of the tunnel colpumping station No.7 to Kolpino WWTP) 104 expanded by observing the behavior of test105 lectors were reconstructed. were in process. The modernization of the sections 1-5 organisms at the biological monitoring station. of the 1st-stage aeration tank was per04. The project on the reconstruction of the The project on the construction of the formed according to the UCT enhanced 05. Activities on improving the reliability of influent collector to Zelenogorsk WWTP sewerage networks from the town of nutrients removal technology. WWTPs’ process equipment were perhas been under development. Zelenogorsk to the villages of Reshetformed: nikovo and Krasavitsa was under devel03. The upgrading of the 3rd and 4th aera05. In 2011, the design and reconstruction opment. tion tanks according to the JHB techAt Kolpino WWTP the screen buildings works on St. Petersburg sewerage netnology was performed at the Central Wastewere reconstructed, including installation works were conducted. 22.9 km of pipelines Works on the reconstruction and conwater Treatment Plant. of new bar screens with a screw conveyor were put into operation—almost 3 times more struction of sewerage pipelines to conand waste washing press. than in 2010. nect the Quarter 25-A of ShuvalovoWorks on the modernization of the 3rd and 4th SUE “Vodokanal of St. Petersburg” // Sustainability Report 2011 Ozerki district to the wastewater system aeration tanks at the CWWTP are aimed at imAt Sestroretsk WWTP the mechanical 06. In 2011, Vodokanal conducted preparatory work for designing stationary snow were in process. proving wastewater treatment quality in compliance with HELCOM requirements. The projwastewater treatment unit was upgraded. Old screens were replaced with new permelting stations to provide comfortable and Works on the construction of the wasteect is under implementation; the grants have forated screens equipped with a press environmentally safe conditions for the citizens water disposal system for the quarters been provided for procurement of equipment. to reduce volume of screenings; and grit Results of Activities in 2011 // Wastewater Disposal in winter period. 6.6А SYN were in process. Construction of new cast-in-situ walls, installawashing and drying facility was put into tion of new process equipment (aeration sysoperation. To provide water supply to new develWorks on the construction of the sewertems) and installation of metal structures are to opment areas, Vodokanal performed age networks in the village of Metallostroi be performed within the project. Completion At Pushkin and Kronstadt WWTPs the the following construction, reconwere in process. of the works is planned for 2012. reconstruction of wastewater sludge destruction and modernization works: watering units (replacement of obsolete Works on the construction of the comIn 2011, the works on testing new technolodewatering equipment) began. The construction of the tunnel collector bined sewerage system for “Konnaya gies of measuring the sludge level in primary “Severnaya Dolina” from the shaft 335 to Lakhta” were in process. sedimentation tanks and activated sludge in 06. Testing of new tertiary treatment systems secondary sedimentation tanks of the CWWTP continued, including: continued. Wastewater Treatment Plants flotofiltration (a combination of flotation In the course of activities focused on introducand filtration processes) at the Southing energy saving technologies and equipWest Wastewater Treatment Plant. Reconstruction of Petrodvorets Wastephorus removal using ferric sulfate, tertiary ment to the municipal sewerage system, Vo01. water Treatment Plant was completed. treatment using lamellas, UV effluent disinfecdokanal continued the development of the two-step filtration through zeolite and acDuring the reconstruction works the wastetion. CWWTP modernization project which included tivated carbon at Metallostroi WWTP. water treatment plant was in operation. In the the construction of digesters to generate biocourse of the comprehensive reconstruction The project presupposes a high level of autogas for the transition to the own renewable enthe following technologies were introduced: mation and introduction of on-line control inergy resources. enhanced nutrient removal, chemical phosstruments. Future Development of the Sewerage System Sludge Landfills Reclamation To alleviate the negative environmental impact creasing the hazard class and sludge volume, of sludge landfills, since 2010, Vodokanal has and removal of odor. The implementation of the Regional Program “Clean Water for the been implementing the first phase of the projAs a result of these activities in 2010-2011, 106 Baltics” for 2011-2025 adopted by the Decree of St. Petersburg Gov107 ect on reclamation of Severny Landfill near the 10% of the total sludge stored at this landfill ernment No. 625 dated 24.05.2011 has begun in St. Petersburg. village of Novoselki. The methods of chemical underwent the specified treatment. treatment and stationary dewatering of wasteIt is planned to handle all sludge stored at the water sludge in geotubes are used for delandfills by 2020. The main objective of the Program “Clean WaThe program implementation will ensure the ter for the Baltics” is to solve the water environimprovement of the environmental situation ment problems of St.Petersburg and to ensure and, consequently, the fulfillment of the interOther projects the environmental safety for all the citizens of national obligations of the Russian Federathe Baltic Sea Region. tion connected with the decisions of the Baltic Marine Environment Protection Commission Vodokanal continued to search for lation was taken into account. The installation St.Petersburg sewerage system development (HELCOM), as well as provide engineering technologies to remove unpleasant of the sorption-plasma-catalyst system of air is focused on solving the following tasks: network for new city development areas. SUE “Vodokanal of St. Petersburg” // Sustainability Report 2011 odor in the sewerage networks and treatment at sewerage pumping stations could pumping stations, as well as in the be an example here. elimination of untreated water discharges To decrease the negative environmental improcess of wastewater treatment. into St.Petersburg water bodies; pact and reach 98% level of wastewater treatIn 2011, the first stage of gathering the input ment in St.Petersburg, the following major enIn 2011, a number of pilot projects of introdata to establish the integrated automated upgrading and construction of wastewavironmental projects are to be implemented: Results of Activities in 2011 // Wastewater Disposal ducing gas treatment systems at problem sewerage management system of St. Peterster treatment plants introducing the enaddresses were executed within the city. The burg was completed. One of the main objechanced nutrient removal and disinfection completion of the Main Tunnel Collector, continuous monitoring of gas treatment systives of the project is to increase energy effitechnologies; including construction of the tunnel sewtems performance was performed during the ciency of the whole system. er along Robespiera Embankment; year; moreover, the opinion of the local popuconstruction of backup tunnel collectors and rehabilitation of the existing tunnel construction of the intercepting collector collectors; along the Okhta; modernization of the sewerage system; closure of untreated wastewater discharge in Petrogradsky District by conestablishment of St. Petersburg sewerstructing sewerage collectors along age management system; Petrogradskaya Embankment, the Karpovka River Embankment, etc.; implementation of the technology that enables to produce electric energy from construction of the collector in the town secondary energy resources generated of Molodezhny, Metallostroi, including in the course of wastewater treatment construction of the influent collector; and sludge recovery; construction of the wastewater disposal construction of networks and facilities to system in Lomonosov to be connected to provide wastewater disposal for city district. Petrodvorets WWTP; reconstruction and modernization of the To ensure the optimal hydraulic conIn 2012-2013, stationary snowTo ensure the availability of wastewaNorthern and Central WWTPs, Zelenotrol of the sewerage network and 108 melting stations are planned ter disposal services to the citizens 109 gorsk WWTP, Pushkin WWTP, including the improvement of energy efficiency to be constructed in St. Peby 2025,Vodokanal plans to construct implementation of the technologies of and rational use of resources, the tersburg. street networks and wastewater enhanced nutrient removal, effluent terreliable integrated wastewater mantreat­ment facilities in 71 communities tiary treatment and disinfection. agement system shall be established. Some of them will have been built by Novemlocated in the territory of St. Petersber 2012, and the rest—by November 2013. burg (providing the private residential To increase the reliability of the tunFor this purpose, Vodokanal needs to estabThe estimated capacity of each snow-melting structures with the possibility to be nel sewerage system, the construclish the system to measure wastewater flow unit is 3,500-7,000 m3 of snow per day. connected to the system). tion of ring tunnels and backup and water level in sewerage collectors and wet collectors is planned with further compartments of sewerage pumping stations, The technologies of energy producAt the present time, the construction of the rehabilitation of the existing tunnel as well as the automated system of remote tion and using of secondary resourcsewerage networks in the villages of Volodarsections. control and the wastewater quality control syses are planned to be implemented, insky, Olgino is going on. Works on designing SUE “Vodokanal of St. Petersburg” // Sustainability Report 2011 tem. cluding the following: the sewerage systems for the villages of MoloThe main projects are as follows: dezhnoe, Lisyi Nos, Lakhta, Toriki, Martyshkino The establishment of the advanced wastewaReconstruction of the sludge incinerator are planned for 2012. Construction of the 2nd stage of the backter system of St. Petersburg is not possible and construction of digesters to generup collector from Vernosti str. to Murinsky without solving a problem of significant physiate biogas at the Central and Northern The planned activities are aimed at meeting Results of Activities in 2011 // Wastewater Disposal Ruchei near Muzhestva Square; cal deterioration of pipelines. The networks WWTPs, thus enabling Vodokanal to rethe following goals: shall be rehabilitated. The replacement of duce expenses for purchased electric Reconstruction of the tunnel collector pipelines shall account for 180-200 km per energy. reduction of the negative environmental along Rizhsky Avenue; year and restoration, by Vodokanal, of pipeimpact of the sewerage system facilities; line tightness—700 km per year. It will allow Ash recycling: development of technoloConstruction of the back-up collector to renovate the sewerage network, ensure gies to use ash produced during sludge continuous provision of wastewater disfrom the shield chamber No.3 to the main continuous and failure-free transportation of incineration for manufacturing building posal services to the customers; pumping station; wastewater for treatment, as well as eliminate products. It will allow to utilize all ash processpools. duced by sludge incinerators and stop increase of the energy-efficiency of the Construction of the ring tunnels in the sludge disposal to the landfills. sewerage system and introduction of the central part of the City; Moreover, Vodokanal plans to upgrade pumps energy-efficiency policy in the wastewaby using up-to-date energy-saving technoloImprovement of sewerage sludge treatter disposal system; Reconstruction of the main influent colgies. ment and utilization technologies to elimlector connected to the Central WWTP; inate the negative environmental impact availability of the centralized wastewater imposed by sludge landfills. services to the population of St. PetersConstruction of the collector from Vasilburg. eostrovskaya pumping station to CWWTP influent collector. Specialized vehicles and equipment As of 1 January 2012, Vodokanal St. Petersburg has 1,137 trans111 port units. The main task for the Transport and Logistics In 2011, Vodokanal purchased 150 transport Branch is to provide Vodokanal’s technological vehicles, including the following: and production processes with transportation services. 18 combined hydraulic jet cleaners FLEXLINE 207. The equipment installed The Branch is responsible for the following: on the cleaner allows to clean sewerage pipelines and at the same time to remove transportation of maintenance and emersludge from sewer manholes. Results of Activities in 2011 // Specialized vehicles and equipment gency teams, tools and equipment to operation sites; 3 (container type) diesel-electric power stations С1400 D5 with the capacity transportation of goods (inert and con1250/1000 kVA/kW in the basic mode, to struction materials, chemicals, technical ensure continuous power supply to Vogases, petrol, diesel oil, waste, etc.); dokanal’s facilities. mechanized loading and unloading works; 18 tank trailers 845415 (8,300l tank volume) to provide potable water to the provision of specialized vehicles to clean citizens in case of water supply shutdown sewerage networks, etc. during elimination of damages on the networks. Vodokanal’s vehicle park includes: To eliminate accidents caused by pump198 specialized van trucks, ing large volumes of water the following units were purchased: 135 dump trucks, 2 independent pumping stations 53 JCB loader-excavator, (PRIMAX (Q=650 m3/h)); 63 Scania, Mercedes, MAN specialized 2 independent pumping stations combined vehicles, (PRIMAX (Q=1300 m3/h)); 31 steam generators (STEAMRATOR A drilling machine (ASTEC DD2024) deMHT700), signed for trenchless repair of pipes; 657 other transport vehicles. Establishment of a reserve power supply system at Vodokanal’s facilities 2 horizontal directional drilling machines 3 sludge suction vehicles (KO-510K) on Installation of reserve power supply sources at Kolpino Water Treatment Plant, 2nd elUNIVERSAL HDD, model UNI 60*70, dethe chassis KAMAZ-43253 designed 112 socially significant and life-support facilities of evation; 113 signed for trenchless repair of pipes; for mechanical removal of sludge from St.Petersburg is envisaged by St. Petersburg stormwater manholes and its transportaGovernment Decree No.1454 “On the proMoskovskaya Pumping Station; An automobile VOLKSWAGEN 2EKE2 tion for unloading. gram of installation of reserve power supply CRAFTER—specialized van “Mobile Te­ sources at socially significant and life-support Central Wastewater Treatment Plant; leinspection Laboratory”. The use of the 5 vans 286824 (SILANT 3.3TD) designed facilities for 2012-2013” dated 20.10.2011. mobile laboratory for network diagnosis for the transportation of emergency Northern Wastewater Treatment Plant; and survey, which was equipped with teams and performance of emergency As early as in 2010, Vodokanal prepared the high-technology robotic video facilities, repair. The cross-country vehicle allows program on the development of the reserve South-West Wastewater Treatment Plant. enabled operators to reduce the time of conducting works in suburban areas. power supply system to increase the energy network inspection and increase the presecurity of water/wastewater facilities. The A decision to use variable frequency drives in cision of defects identification. 6 cargo trucks Chaika-Service 27842С program fully complies with the requirements combination with diesel-electric power units on the chassis GAZ-33104 with a manipof St. Petersburg Government Decree. allowed to decrease the number of DEPUs Results of Activities in 2011 // Specialized vehicles and equipment 28 package mobile boilers (STEAMRAulator, designed for the transportation of (because of reducing the starting current) and SUE “Vodokanal of St. Petersburg” // Sustainability Report 2011 TOR МНТ700) used for heating fire hyvarious cargoes with three-way unloadFor the first time the company as big as Vodowill ensure the pumps operation with variable drants and storm water tanks in winter ing option. kanal will ensure, within the framework of the frequency drives in normal mode thus considperiod. reserve power supply system establishment, erably reducing energy consumption. SUE “Vodokanal of St.Petersburg” plans to that high-voltage pumps (up to 1.5 MW) are 104 vans 575094 on the chassis KAMAZupgrade and develop its transport facilities, in powered by reserve power supply sources Under the program on the establishment of 4308-HZ with mobile workshops “Molparticular, to start using transport vehicles with (diesel-electric power units). Technical soluthe reserve power supply system, Vodokanal, niya”. These vehicles are designed for EURO-4 class motors and increased technitions used in the course of the system develby the beginning of 2012, has performed the the transportation of emergency teams cal capability, as well as to apply multi-function opment are unique and unprecedented. following works: of up to 6 people and performance of transport units thus reducing the number of emergency repair and preventive-maintransport facilities. Vodokanal plans to establish 25 sites at its design works related to 25 sites and tenance works on water pipelines. core production facilities to accommodate electrical units; Timely renewal of Vodokanal’s transport the high-voltage diesel-electric power units. 2 specialized mobile canteens (NEfacilities allows to: Stationary high-voltage diesel-electric power 60%-completion of construction and inFAZ-5299-11-32) designed for the delivunits (DEPU) with variable frequency drives will stallation works; ery of hot meals and comfortable caterincrease the operational reliability of the be installed at 13 sites. ing of the teams of up to 60 people (12 vehicles, purchase of three mobile high-voltage people at the same time) on-site. Stationary power units will be installed on the DEPUs (1000kW, 6.3kV), commissioning execute water supply and wastewater following sites: works are in progress; 6 sludge suction vehicles (KО-530-01) disposal production programs, on the chassis KAMAZ-65115 designed Main Water Treatment Plant; conclusion of a supply contract for 13 for mechanical removal of wastewater establish positive conditions for implestationary DEPUs with variable frequency sludge from stormwater tanks, for sludge mentation of infrastructure development Volkovskaya Water Treatment Plant; drives; transportation and unloading. projects and provision of engineering support of St.Petersburg. Northern Water Treatment Plant (2 sites); design works related to the sites to accommodate low-voltage DEPUs at 36 faSouthern Water treatment Plant (2 sites); cilities has begun. Customer service Customer service in 2011 Customer service was a priority area for SUE “Vodokanal of St. Petersburg” in 2011. The underlying principle in this field of activities 115 is: “Vodokanal for the clients (customers), not the clients (customers) for Vodokanal”. Vodokanal’s customer service is based on the During 2011 Vodokanal proceeded following principles: with its work on restructuring contractual arrangements with custommaximal result for the client (customer) ers and concluding separate conand minimal requirements to the custracts for potable water supply and tomer; for collection of wastewater and pollutants. search for a solution satisfactory to both parties; The specialists of water supply and sanitation districts of the relevant service areas are continuous optimization of the company responsible for consulting clients and cusinteraction with its customers. tomers with regard to execution, amendment and termination of water supply contracts and Vodokanal’s territorial divisions established sewage/pollutants collection agreements, reResults of Activities in 2011 // Customer service within the production branches “Water Supply” ceiving applications and documents required and “Wastewater Disposal” provide consultafor execution of contracts as well as drafting tion services to customers. of contracts. Communication with customers in the serWhen making new contracts with its customviced territory is a main task of water supply ers, Vodokanal takes into account their wishes and wastewater disposal areas (which allows to a maximum extent and follows an individual Vodokanal to be as close as possible to its approach to each customer. customers). It enables Vodokanal to respond promptly to change of the customers’ needs Vodokanal offers to its customers the right of and to their inquiries as well as to provide serchoice: they may enter into separate contracts vices taking into account specific features of for water supply and wastewater disposal eithe customer’s facility and water and wastether in relation to each facility (if they have a diwater networks located in a certain territory. rect connection to Vodokanal’s water distribution and sewerage networks), or in relation to several facilities. Vodokanal guarantees to its customers that documents which have been earlier proIn 2011, Vodokanal implemented advanced In 2011, Vodokanal actively dealt with 116 117 new contracts are made at their maximal convided to Vodokanal (unless such docutechnologies into the work with customers: various categories of customers venience: ments have been amended); with regard to their connection to proceeded to introduce remote system public water and sewage systems,perthe Company officers visit a customer’s the time required for entering into the to transfer meter readings, enabling the formance of contracts for potable facility in the agreed time; contracts for potable water supply and customer to have online control of water water supply and sewage/pollutants sewage/pollutants collection has been consumption, timely reveal emergencies collection. the Company officers examine water shortened. in the in-house network and make paysupply and sewerage systems on the day ments to Vodokanal on the basis of the The Company is aware of its customers’ of visit; When collecting payments under the remote meter readings (without direct needs, so it fully considers specific features concluded contracts for potable contact of the customer with the Comof each category of customers while making when drafting separate contracts, the water supply and wastewater/pollutpany’s employees); contracts for potable water supply, wastewaCompany uses, to a maximum extent, the ants disposal, Vodokanal extremely ter/pollutants collection. SUE “Vodokanal of St. Petersburg” // Sustainability Report 2011 information and documents already subconsiders customers wishes. continued to establish the electronic armitted to it by the customer; chive of contractual documents in order The Company has developed and put into In 2011, the payment collection division, that to ensure prompt access to the docupractice contract forms tailored with respect drafts of new contracts are submitted to was responsible for managing the accounts ments kept by Vodokanal, provide custo each category of customer. the customer at its location. receivable, was reorganized. New subdivitomers with the copies of documents and sions oriented at work with separate groups have immediate access, by Vodokanal’s The Company interacts with the Union of The following measures were taken to optimize of customers were established in the payment divisions, to electronic documents reIndustrialists and Entrepreneurs of St. PeResults of Activities in 2011 // Customer service contractual arrangements between the cuscollection division, including customer service quired in the course of interaction with tersburg and with public services providers tomers and Vodokanal: for households, customer service for induscustomers; (a working group supported by the newspaper tries, customer service for budgetary organi“Concierge”). Over 2011 Vodokanal had workthe number of documents to be submitzations, customer service for other customers prepared to introduce the procedure for ing meetings with the St. Petersburg Internated by the customer to Vodokanal in order and customer service for tenants. Such difInternet submittal of applications and tional Business Association (SPIBA) and small to make contracts for water supply and ferentiation allows to meet customers’ needs documents needed for entering into the business associations. sewage collection has been reduced; to the fullest extent in the course of accounts contracts for potable water supply and Such interaction allows making decisions acreceivable reconcilement and recovery as well sewage/pollutants collection, which ceptable for the parties, exchanging the views the customer is entitled to provide inforas during negotiations. aimed at the reduction of contact prepaand adjusting Vodokanal’s documents in ormation in the contract application form ration periods and minimization of direct der to ensure transparency in the parties’ relawithout its further confirmation by sepaCustomers were divided into groups and application by customers to Vodokanal. tions. rate documents; a responsible person was appointed to each group. This step made Vodokanal close to the the customer is not asked to submit the customer. documents issued by Vodokanal (authorizations for connection to centralized water and wastewater systems) and the Growth of sales Accounts receivable The trend to lower water consumption continued in 2011, which demonstrates responsible attitude to water resources among the customers. Vodokanal has developed a mechanism of individual work with 118 119 In 2009-2011, water consumption reduced by 6.7%. customers aimed to ensure timely payment for potable water and sanitation services or, in the event of indebtedness, to recover the debt. Growth of sales in water and sanitation services for 2009-2011, in physical units (‘000 m3) In 2011, the management of SUE «Vodokanreconciliation reports were automated in the al of St. Petersburg» decided to hold reguACCESS database that significantly reduced ‘000 m3 lar meetings to discuss measures against the time required for formatting and releasing 800,000 Water supply 754,745 the debtors between Vodokanal’s branches: the reports. 728,548 Wastewater disposal 684,245 “Customer Service Centre”, “Water Supply in In 2011, close interaction with the city authori700,000 658,517 640,240 St. Petersburg” and “Wastewater Disposal in ties in charge of the St. Petersburg budget Vo614,296 600,000 St. Petersburg”, for the purpose of strengthendokanal organized: SUE “Vodokanal of St. Petersburg” // Sustainability Report 2011 ing control over the procedures and results of 500,000 this activity. All in all, 660 such meetings were monthly meetings at District Administraheld in 2011. tions and the City Administration Com400,000 mittees where the cause of accounts In parallel, the Customer Service Centre receivable and time of payment were dis300,000 Branch provided regular training with regard cussed. to the specific nature of this activity, reporting Results of Activities in 2011 // Customer service 200,000 procedures and preparation of analytical mathe exchange of information and elec100,000 terials for all responsible persons in each watronic data about the allocated funds and ter supply/sanitation district. actual provision of services in physical 0 and money terms and about the status 2009 2010 2011 In 2011, the ACCESS database, established of accounts receivable with the city auby the analytical service of the Customer Serthorities in charge of the St. Petersburg vice Centre Branch, was updated. That made it budget. possible to combine the data of three informaSuch reduction of water consumption in of leaks on local networks, repairs of intion systems in one (LIVS, OM and Vodosbyt) full-scale quarterly comparative checking St. Petersburg can be explained by: house pipes, etc.); and minimize temporary costs on gathering the of settlements with customers of certain information about accounts receivable of cuscategories. transition to the billing for actual conwater conservation by the citizens; tomers in different systems. Using the ACCESS sumption measured by individual cold/ data base, one could make each assigned timely issuance and delivery of bills to relhot water meters (before the installation actions performed by housing organizaperson in the customer service department to evant customers on a monthly basis. of water meters customers paid accordtions, management companies, condobe responsible for the planned and actual coling to the standard consumption rate); miniums and housing cooperatives to relection of payments from each customer. In adDue to such efforts, the payments by the duce water consumption (improvement dition, it became possible to register and save “St. Petersburg Budget” Category customers water saving actions taken by customof water metering and control over the customers’ history in the database. Tripartite were collected in full in 2011. ers (emergency repairs and elimination provided services). In parallel, the management of the Customer In 2011, the overdue accounts receivable To increase the efficiency of payment collecIn 2011, Vodokanal continued to publish the Service Centre Branch organized joint working were monitored more efficiently. The activities tion and decrease the accounts receivable in information about its main debtors on its cormeetings with the defaulters to solve issues aimed to limit or stop the provision of services the categories “Tenants” and “Private Ownporate website (section “Lists of Debtors”). related to collection and reconciliation of payto certain customers were better coordinated. ers”, St. Petersburg Water Supply Branch and Such information is updated on a monthly baments. For example, in 2011, upon the request of St. Petersburg Wastewater Disposal Branch sis. the Customer Service Centre the production made each customer in these categories bore As of 01.01.2012, Vodokanal’s accounts reThe meetings held in 2011 led to the conclubranches limited water supply/sanitation sera personified responsibility. ceivable amounted to RUB 3,989,837,200. sion of 113 debt restructuring agreements with vices for 210 customers, terminated the provithe customers confronted with the lack funds sion of services to 69 customers and resumed required to pay for Vodokanal services. 155 provision of services to 96 customers. Structure of accounts receivable in 2011 such agreements were made in 2011. 120 121 Accounts receivable as of Accounts receivable as of Customer group 01.01.11 01.01.12 Limitation or termination of services Providers of services to households 1,365,401.8 2,211,115.0 Number of GP TEK (heat supplier) 154,384.6 159,093.1 inhabitants TGK-1 (electricity supplier) 194,358.8 268,003.7 250 Limited 210 St. Petersburg budget 39,152.9 37,772.2 Terminated 200 186 Resumed Federal budget 276,430.9 297,742.4 150 Organizations in Leningrad Region 268,467.1 309,488.9 SUE “Vodokanal of St. Petersburg” // Sustainability Report 2011 99 96 Other 243,875.3 241,677.7 100 68 69 Industries 524,598.8 464,944.3 50 TOTAL 3,066,670.3 3,989,837.2 0 Results of Activities in 2011 // Customer service 2010 2011 The share of different customer categories in the structure of accounts receivable Growth or Thus, in 2011, the number of customers for ceedings is one of the instruments to liquidate reduction of share Customer group As of 01.01.2011 As of 01.01.2012 in 2011 which water supply/sanitation services were the accounts receivable. limited or terminated increased 1.1 times. It Providers of services to households 44.5% 55.4% 10.9% led to reduction of overdue accounts receivIn 2011, the Enforcement Proceeding Service GP TEK (heat supplier) 5.0% 4.0% -1.0% able with regard to the customer categories based on decisions of the Arbitration Court of “Industries” and “Other”. St. Petersburg and Leningrad Region, courts TGK-1 (electricity supplier) 6.3% 6.7% 0.4% of general jurisdiction and regulations of the The customer category “Providers of Services 13th Appeal Court of St. Petersburg received St. Petersburg budget 1.3% 0.9% -0.3% to Households” has the biggest share (55.4% 555 enforcement orders at the total amount of Federal budget 9.0% 7.5% -1.6% as of 01.01.2012) in the overall structure of RUB 378,165,733.54. accounts receivable. In 2011, this share inOrganizations in Leningrad Region 8.8% 7.8% -1.0% creased by 10.9% The total accounts receivable recovered under the enforcement orders amounted to RUB Other 8.0% 6.1% -1.9% Recovery of accounts receivable through ar334,190,424.52, including RUB 79,769,135.92 Industries 17.1% 11.7% -5.5% bitration and then through enforcement prounder the 2010 enforcement orders. Connection to water distribution and sewerage networks Vodokanal provides services to its clients and customers for the The following regulatory documents were isTo improve the quality of customer service, the preparation of authorizations and connection of facilities to engi122 sued and approved in 2011 for the purpose of Customer Service Center is open from 9:00 till 123 neering networks on the basis of issued authorizations, including: improving the quality of customer service: 18:00 (without lunch break). Instruction on establishing a working All necessary information about the procedure preparation of specifications; review of design documentation; group to deal with the connection of the of issuing the authorizations can be found on privileged categories of citizens No. 271 website: www.vodokanal.spb.ru. It also has consultancy; preparation of other authorizations dated 12.08.2011; a service that allows to apply for technical (baseline data, approval of layout, etc.); specifications via the Internet. preparation of connection conditions Instruction on technical rules of using and conclusion of connection contracts; monitoring of connection contract immaterials for water and sewerage netProceeding from the results of the customers’ plementation. work at the design stage No. 000284/11 satisfaction survey conducted it was revealed dated 19.08.2011; that over 2011 this value has increased by SUE “Vodokanal of St. Petersburg” // Sustainability Report 2011 3.3% in comparison with 2010. It is driven by The number of consultations and documents made is listed below in the table Standard STO Vodokanal St. Petersburg the improvement of customer service qualand compared to the previous period 18.3-2011 “Customer Service. Customity (no more queues to specialists to submit er service for connections to water and documents, periods for authorization preparsewerage networks and providing water ing and the number of refusals reduced). Work Type Number of documents prepared Number of consultations supply and sanitation services No. 2 dated 18.01.2012”. Due to the extension of admission hours and Results of Activities in 2011 // Customer service Period 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 opportunity to receive technical specifications Issue of authorizations In 2011, the preparation of authorizations took via the Internet the queue to submit applica(incl. specifications, not more than 2 days (if additional inspections tions were eliminated (the average waiting time connection conditions, baseline data, etc.) 6,281 7,250 6,987 8,623 11,354 5,150 7,388 5,091 5,552 6,021 were not needed). Meanwhile, the period preis no longer than 3 minutes). For example, in scribed by law is 14 days. 2011, 264 applications were received via the Review of design docuThe connection conditions preparation period Internet and on their basis 208 technical specmentation 3,045 3,169 2,950 3,456 3,794 3,654 3,802 3,540 3,840 4,010 is reduced to 5 days (the period prescribed by ifications were issued (42 sets of documents law is 30 days). were incomplete, 14 refusals). Number of connection contracts drafted 123 311 314 Collection of requests and consultancy servicIn 2011, the location of 2,426 facilities was Number of contracts es to customers are provided at the address: agreed at the customer requests. concluded 24 181 260 Letter A, 21 Gakkelevskaya Str. The average number of requests for authorization preparation per one specialist in 2010 was 616 documents, in 2011—757 documents. SUE “Vodokanal of St. Petersburg” has its Hot Line to receive calls Complaints about low cold water head from the customers (phone: +7 (812) 305-09-09, see also “Interaction 124 125 with customers” for more details). Number of inhabitants In 2004-2011, the implementation and use of per hour are received). At present, the average 3,000 2,673 the calls recording and handling system, as time of waiting for the operator’s reply is 8-20 well as other improvements of this process, seconds. 2,500 led to reduction of call duration from 12 to 2 In 2004-2011, the number of calls (general 2,000 minutes with the maximum waiting time of 2 inquiries or consultations) increased from minutes (in peak periods, when up to 200 calls 55,659 to 111,273. 1,500 inquiries 1,000 839 730 SUE “Vodokanal of St. Petersburg” // Sustainability Report 2011 500 378 Number of 218 127 153 156 inquiries 0 125,000 116,869 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 93,084 100,000 84,355 111,273 83,983 Results of Activities in 2011 // Customer service 73,395 75,000 55,659 55,047 50,000 25,000 0 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 The number of inquiries in relation to VoThe most frequent complaints are those about dokanal activities has increased over these low cold water head and blockages in the yard years. It can be explained by the increase of sewers. In 2004, the Hot Line received 2,673 new customers and the growing interest of complaints about low water head, and in 2011 the citizens in the Company operations. there were 156 complaints only, i.e. the number of complaints has reduced more than 17 The number of complaints received by Hot times over 7 years. Line reduced from 30,146 to 25,692 in The number of complaints about blockages 2004-2011. of the yard sewers has reduced 1.7 times in 2004-2011. Customers satisfaction By results of the survey, performed at the end of 2011, the overwhelming majority of survey residents (80%) answered that in general they were satisfied with cold water quality. In 2011, SUE “Vodokanal of St. Petersburg” carried out random pollRespondents are divided into groups in terms stormwater drainage in yards and streets, 73% ing of customers (budgetary organizations, providers of services 126 of age, sex, social status, administrative city are satisfied with safety measures and comfort 127 to the population, tenants and industrial enterprises). 286 responareas, etc. to ensure good sampling. provided at repair works. dents participated in polls. Opinion surveys among St. Petersburg resiSatisfaction of city-dwellers with the quality of dents witness to a gradual growth of the cusVodokanal Hotline Service is growing steadily. Analysis of questionnaires revealed that 70% to identify problems, urgent for the population, tomers’ satisfaction with the provided services. 93% of those respondents who used Hotline of customers were satisfied in general with the and improve the quality of its operation. By results of the survey, performed at the end Service are satisfied with its performance (for quality of the provided water and wastewater of 2011, the overwhelming majority of resireference, in 2010—78%). services. Procedures for opinion surveys are improved dents (80%) answered that in general they But 16% of customers were not satisfied with every year. Before 2008 such surveys were were satisfied with cold water quality. More and more city dwellers are also satisregularity of water supply services (those cuscarried out by phone. In 2009 Vodokanal arfied with social projects of Vodokanal. Particutomers made complaints about head loss), ranged telephone polling and outdoor polling. At the same time, 79% of residents were satislarly, 85% of respondents are satisfied with the SUE “Vodokanal of St. Petersburg” // Sustainability Report 2011 22% of respondents were dissatisfied with the According to the results of the surveys and on fied with cold water color (in 2010, this factor Baltic Sea protection activities, which is 12% time period needed to conclude contracts for the grounds of the opinion given by marketing accounted for 76.2%), 82% of respondents higher than last year. The overwhelming mapotable water supply and wastewater/pollutcompanies, the decision was taken that outwere satisfied with smell (in 2010, this factor jority of respondents are pleased with operaants collection. door polling was more efficient. accounted for 81.4%), 81% of respondents tion of the Universe of Water Museum (98%) Since 2010, Vodokanal has conducted opinwere satisfied with the water head (in 2010— and the Youth Environmental Centre of VodoVodokanal annually performs opinion surveys ion surveys in the form of outdoor polling. 79%). kanal (95%). A share of respondents satisfied among St. Petersburg residents. The objecQuestionnaires are developed on the basis of with fountains and fountain complexes grew by Results of Activities in 2011 // Customer service tive of such surveys is to define satisfaction of a Likert-type scale (an ordinal scale). MathCity residents give a high estimate to the qual17% in 2011 in comparison with 2010 and acthe end-users with the quality of services and ematic-statistic methods are used to analyze ity of the services provided by the Company. counted for 99% of all respondents. social projects of Vodokanal. According to the the received data (Guttman scale, in particuThus, 78% of respondents are satisfied with results of such surveys Vodokanal is enabled lar). City fountains In 2011, State Unitary Enterprise “Vodokanal of St. Petersburg” operated 59 fountains and fountain complexes. 129 The history of St. Petersburg fountains goes were functioning in the city. Most of them were back to 1705, the fountains have lived through in a state of failure, maintenance and repairseveral periods of prosperity and decline. And ing works have not been performed for a long by the time the decision was taken to pass time. the city fountains into the economic manageVodokanal St. Petersburg has been maintainment of State Unitary Enterprise “Vodokanal of ing fountains and fountain complexes since St. Petersburg”, fewer than 20 of 350 fountains 1996. Number of fountains 60 55 50 41 42 40 33 35 31 30 27 Results of Activities in 2011 // City fountains 20 20 17 10 3 4 4 4 4 1 0 1996 1999 2002 2005 2006 2008 2009 2010 2011 total number of fountains total number of fountain complexes Over the period 1996-2011 Vodokanal St. Peand budgetary funds including the color-mutersburg has renovated 30 fountains. sic fountain complex at the square in front of In addition to the renovation of the existing Finlyandsky Railway Station (put into operafountains Vodokanal has constructed new tion in 2005) and the fountain complex at the fountains in the most significant locations as Moskovskaya Square (put into operation in well. 2006). By 2008, Vodokanal had constructed 15 founAll city fountains are located in the places tains and fountain complexes using its own which are the most popular among citizens and guests of the city. All fountains are unique: they differ by the year of construction, size, In 2011, the fountain in the town of Lomonosov was reconstructed. Since 1 July 2011, the Public architecture, and are made of different mafountain was transferred under the supervision terials. Fountain complexes are technologyintensive facilities that require a big scope of of Vodokanal St. Petersburg. A complete fountain reconstruction was performed on a tight toilets maintenance works. schedule, and now it looks more impressive The largest and the most modern stationthan before. ary fountain complex decorates the Moscow Outer and inner sides of the large fountain Square. It was set into operation in 2006. bowl (its diameter is 14.2 meters) are lined The total area of the fountain complex at the up with red granite plates. The bowl itself is Moscow Square is 18,000 m2; the total volume made of the in-situ reinforced concrete. There of bowls is 3,700 m3. The ensemble consists is a bronze monument in the center, a lion In 2011, SUE “Vodokanal of St. Petersburg” of 11 bowls. The pumps of the fountain comwho tries to reaching a sour orange tree. Ini130 operated 698 public toilets. 131 plex pump about 580,000 m3 of water per day. tially, this tree decorated the Oranienbaum city The fountain bowls are installed at a depth emblem (the German word “Oranienbaum” from one to three meters below the level of means “a sour orange tree”). Today, it is used There are 847 public toilets in the economic Among them, in operation: Moskovsky prospect. on the emblem of Lomonosov. The monument management of Vodokanal St. Petersburg, inThe fountain complex at the Lenin Square is 5.8 m high. cluding: 129 stationary toilets consists of 20 separate granite units with light Fountain jets are directed parabolically from and music. The total water volume of all bowls the bowl to the central monument. Each jet is 212 stationary toilets 74 modular toilets is over 2,000 m3. up to 1.5m height and 5m long. 120 fountain nozzles, set on a radial distribution manifold, 140 modular toilets 37 modular toilets with storage tanks In 2009, SUE “Vodokanal of St. Petersburg” provide for creation of these water parabolas. developed the Rules for fountain mainteA device, comprising 200 white diode un37 modular toilets with storage tanks 403 mobile cabins SUE “Vodokanal of St. Petersburg” // Sustainability Report 2011 nance, which determined maintenance methderwater illuminators, is provided for founused in gardens and parks ods and costs for each fountain. tain streams lighting. 4 radial illuminators are 20 mobile sanitary and hygienic comAmong the fountains operated by SUE “Vodomounted around the fountain bowl. 20 mobile sanitary and hygienic complexes (installed in buses, semitrailers kanal of St. Petersburg” is the fountain in the plexes installed on vehicle chassis and Valday-type vehicles) garden near the Kazan Cathedral, the fountain In the course of the fountain reconstruction the in Aleksandrovsky Garden, the fountain in Yunearby territory was landscaped as well. There 403 mobile cabins 35 urinal-type toilets zhno-Primorsky Park, the fountain in the garare rest benches, flower beds and lawns near den near Gostiny Dvor (Kronstadt) and others. the fountain. Total area of the landscaped ter35 urinal-type toilets Results of Activities in 2011 // Public toilets ritory is 2,870 square meters. In 2011, fourteen new fountains were Number of inhabitants per one Vodokanal operated toilet in 2005-2011 taken into economic management by The fountains operated by Vodokanal St. PeVodokanal St. Petersburg. tersburg are equipped with over 8,000 lamps, Number of over 4,500 nozzles, 860 pumps, 915 electroinhabitants The fountain at the Manezhnaya Square (the magnetic valves and almost 320 km of cabling. 35,000 Number of St. Petersburg 31,724 inhabitants per one toilet pumping equipment was replaced and hydro During the winter period the performance of 30,000 27,104 insulation of the fountain bowl was improved in all fountains and fountain complex equipment the course of capital repair), the “Putti” founis tested; the relevant parts and units are re25,000 tain in Vvedensky Garden and two fountains in paired or replaced. 20,000 Nikolsky Garden were set into operation upon the completion of the capital repair works in In 2012, it is planned to complete the capital 15,000 2011. repairs of the fountain “Bowl” in Zelenogorsk 9,272 10,000 7,194 In 2011, the capital repairs were completed and to start the capital repairs of the fountain 7,006 6,981 6,591 with regard to the “Boy with Duck” fountain and in Yuzhno-Primorsky Park. 5,000 the fountain near Gostiny Dvor in Kronstadt; Besides, in 2012 the renovation of fountains in 0 the capital repairs of the fountain “Bowl” in Pisarev Garden is planned. 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Zelenogorsk were started. The total number of outdoor public toilets conditions for the mandatory construction of Toilets are open from 9:00 till 21:00. In public By 2015, Vodokanal plans to: in St. Petersburg in the 1950-70s of XX cenpublic toilet in shopping centers. Today, prac132 holidays toilets are open according to the spe133 tury reached 700. They were managed by tically every large shopping center has free cial schedule. renovate 40 stationary public toilets; GUP «Zentr-Servis”, the municipal authority public toilets for all categories of visitors. “Spetssluzba”, landscaping companies, housIn order to increase the number of operated make capital repairs of 12 public toilets; ing offices, which operated the toilets. Since 2006, a lot of work has been done to public toilets in St. Petersburg and to improve install a new generation modular toilets next the quality of services provided by Vodokanal, acquire 14 mobile sanitary and hygienic In early 1990s, the number of public toilets to metro stations, as well as in the places 10 stationary public toilets were reconstructtoilet complexes installed on the vehicle was reduced. As a result of privatization many agreed with district administrations. They are ed and 37 modular toilets with storage tanks, chassis; buildings and facilities were bought out, leased equipped with modern sanitary and hygienic used in gardens and parks, were purchased in or redesigned as no restrictions were imposed facilities. They are more comfortable and look 2011. purchase 101 mobile toilet cabins. on the use of such buildings and facilities. nicer. The first 77 toilets of this kind were installed by Vodokanal in 2007 on the City BirthWorks were carried out in accordance with St. As a result of the address programme impleSUE “Vodokanal of St. Petersburg” // Sustainability Report 2011 According to the inventory made by territorial day. According to the public toilets developPetersburg Government Decree dated Octomentation by 2015, Vodokanal will operate district authorities of St. Petersburg, at that ment programme the final number of such ber 16, 2007 “On the address programme for 847 public toilets, including: moment there were about 300 toilets in the toilets will be 140 units by 2015. the development of public toilets in St. Peterscity budget, a part of which had already been burg for 2007-2011”. 212 stationary toilets; granted on a long-term lease, and the others Vodokanal St. Petersburg was the first to acwere becoming dilapidated and going to ruin. quire mobile sanitary and hygienic toilet comDuring the city festivals—New Year, Christ140 modular toilets without storage Vodokanal St. Petersburg was assigned with plexes installed on the vehicle chassis which mas, Victory Day and Day of the City, “Scarlet tanks; the task to solve this problem. allow to provide better services to visitors as Sails”—Vodokanal set up mobile toilets. Results of Activities in 2011 // Public toilets compared with portable toilet cabins. CurIn total, in 2011 movable toilets were provided 37 modular toilets with storage tanks; Vodokanal St. Petersburg has been operating rently, Vodokanal is targeted to purchase the for more than 700 events on requests of differpublic toilets since 2001. In December 2001, improved versions of such toilets. ent organizations. 20 mobile sanitary and hygienic toilet the decree of the Administration of St. Peterscomplexes installed on the vehicle chasburg No.1492-ra “On the development of St. Complexes and modular toilets help to solve In 2011, a new address prosis; Petersburg public toilet network” was issued. the task of providing services to inhabitants in gramme for the development of Vodokanal St. Petersburg assumed responcentral districts. public toilets for 2012-2015 was 438 mobile toilet cabins. sibility for the maintenance and servicing of prepared. public toilets owned by the city of St. PetersSpecially trained personnel of the sub-conburg, as well as client’s functions in repairs, tractor works in every public toilet managed by renovation and development. SUE “Vodokanal of St. Petersburg”. Vodokanal’s personnel controls this work on a frequent Pursuant to the Sanitary Rules for Installation basis. Toilets are equipped with security sysand Maintenance of Public Toilets No.983-72 tem to ensure the personnel security. Over 500 dated 19.06.1972 approved by the Deputy people are involved in operation and mainteChief Sanitary Inspector of the USSR, in the nance of toilets. course of construction of shopping centers, Vodokanal St. Petersburg issues technical Implementation of new technologies in the field of water supply and wastewater disposal SUE “Vodokanal of St. Petersburg” actively introduces up-to-date technologies to ensure provision of good-quality water and 135 wastewater services to its customers and minimize the environmental impact. Water supply 1. In the design and construction of a new water treatment block at South Water Treatment Plant (K-6 Block), put into operation in 2011, advanced processes were used in order to cope with any changes in the quality of raw water. In particular, the inclusion of the ozonation increase of filtration rate; Innovations // Implementation of new technologies stage in the water treatment process provided the following benefits: extension of filtration time; taste and odour removal; reduction of backwash water volume; removal of color caused by humic subreduction of sludge volumes after filter stances; backwash; turbidity reduction; organic matter reduction (including chloInnovations rorganic compounds). suppression of algae growth; partial disinfection. microflocculation effect (improvement of the colloidal organic matter flocculation The use of mechanical agitators provides process); rapid water mixing before it enters into the first flocculation chamber in every process line, reduction of chemical consumption; thus fostering floc formation and improving the downstream sedimentation process. The flocculation time reduction; existing scheme of hydraulic chemical mixing at old plants depends on the plant load and is less effective. 2. The water sedimentation process uses lamella filter cycle is on average 60% longer than In 2011, Vodokanal implemented innovative ideas for creating sedimentation tanks that provides advantages in sand filters; 136 an effective water supply management system in the South137 as compared to the conventional water sediern Water Supply Zone. mentation scheme: the required amount of backwash water is less than for sand filters; higher hydraulic load and larger sediIn 2012, the work will continue to establish the implementation of an automated presmentation area; the rate of air flushing is the same, while water supply management system in St. Pesure control using “check points” set in the rate of backwash in dual media filtratersburg. networks. shorter retention time; tion is lower than in sand filters; The following main activities, aimed at estabAs a result of the pumping equipment higher sludge concentration; both the GAC layer and sand layer effeclishing the integrated water supply managemodernization, frequency drives will be tively capture solids, and this shows that ment system in St. Petersburg, were impleused for all pumping units that will allow to significant reduction of the plant area; filtration takes place in all parts of the filmented: smoothly start up and stop engines and SUE “Vodokanal of St. Petersburg” // Sustainability Report 2011 ter. The effective removal of suspended reduce the load on the power grid. Opsignificant reduction of the volume of solids is achieved, and the outlet turbidity The creation of a hydraulic model that alerating regimes of pumps are selected sludge to be thickened; may reach the values less than 1 NTU. lows to determine optimization strategy automatically based on the readings of for water network (elimination of excesflow meters, pressure recorders in “check no supernatant; One of the main goals of using activated carsive pressure, improvement of velocity, points” and other criteria (for example, Innovations // Implementation of new technologies bon is to remove organic matter. Due to filtrabuilding a modern system of hydraulic water level in clean water reservoirs). lower investment costs; tion through activated carbon filters, dissolved mode control). As a result, the optimal values of water organic compounds are effectively removed The main tool for making decisions on pressure and water flow are maintained shorter start-up period; in the adsorption and biological degradation the network reconstruction is its mathat the outlets. Reduction of excessive process. ematical model that allows to make mulpressure in the water pipeline reduces its higher quality of clarified water; tivariate hydraulic calculations, particubreakdown rate, distribution losses and The uniqueness of this new block is that it allarly to identify the sections with minimal increases its life. Due to a smooth start better performance at low water temperlows to solve the problem of wash water (i.e. velocity and overloaded sections and up and stop of pumping units the network ature. water used for regular filter backwash). Beselect the best activities to eliminate loads in transient modes drop manifold fore, this water was discharged directly into these defects; to calculate various scethat reduces the breakdown rate by preWater is filtered in dual media gravity filters. the Neva. At the new block it is treated. Thanks narios of water consumption, strategies venting water hammers. The opportunity Dual media filtration combining quartz sand to transition to the closed cycle of using wash to repair, modernize and construct water of automated self-start up for pumping and granulated activated carbon (GAC) prowater, the adverse impact on the environment pipelines. An important moment is the hiunits in case of emergency power failure, vides a number of advantages of treatment: is significantly reduced. erarchical approach to the network secas well as automated putting into operations: the most important sections, water tion standby pumping units minimize wathe rate of head loss is lower than in sand conduits, street distribution network etc. ter supply interruptions and reduce the filters; are singled out. number of operating personnel. Work of pumping units in the most energy efThe modernization of pumping staficient mode provides power savings and tions to reduce energy consumption by increases the resource of pumping units 30-40% due to efficiency increasing and themselves. Wastewater disposal The installation of modern fittings, which to take readings and issue invoices strictIn 2011, SUE “Vodokanal of St. Petersburg” continued consistent imwill allow to improve the water supply relily on required dates, thus improving the 138 plementation of actions aimed to improve the performance of munici139 ability and provide stable network operacollection of payments and minimizing pal sewerage in St. Petersburg. tion, eliminate hydraulic hammers and air the “human factor”. Automatic compariplugs. son of meter readings taken at pumping Application of modern control valves, stations, on the networks and on the conVodokanal’s wastewater treatment In 2011, Vodokanal continued the studies which operate off-line according to presumer site allows to diagnose and locate 01. plants have implemented and are us03. and full-scale testing of various wastewaset parameters, provides the pressure leaks, unauthorized connections, and ing an effective chemical process to remove ter/sludge treatment methods, technologies regulation in separate subzones and minidentify faulty meters. Emergency teams phosphorus—one of the main nutrients conand chemicals: imizes excessive pressure that allows to get preliminary information about the lotributing to eutrophication of the Baltic Sea. reduce water losses. cations of leaks and losses before water Full-scale tests of alternative wastewaflows out on the surface and people start By implementing such system at Petrodvorets ter disinfection methods (treatment with Installation of air valves allows to release to make calls. WWTP in 2011 and putting into operation its 12% peracetic acid (PACS12) at KroSUE “Vodokanal of St. Petersburg” // Sustainability Report 2011 the air accumulated in water pipelines, permanent version at Northern WWTP Vodonstadt WWTP) were made. thereby increasing the reliability and effiThe installation of “reference points” for kanal could meet the HELCOM recommendaciency of the network, as well as providing online water quality control in the network tions on phosphorus removal from wastewaFull-scale tests of aluminum sulfate for high flow measurements accuracy. and on the customer side. ter. chemical phosphorus precipitation at Online water quality control in the netCentral WWTP were launched. Innovations // Implementation of new technologies The installation of pulse output meters to work allows to adjust the water supply Petrodvorets WWTP uses the cutting02. make water balance, monitor water conmodes in a timely manner and guarantee edge process solutions and equipment, The testing of advanced methods of sumption and control leaks online. compliance of water quality with regulain particular, the tertiary treatment process folchecking the level of sludge in the priDue to automatic meter readings there is tory requirements. lowed by UV-disinfection. Thus, the treated efmary clarifiers and activated sludge at no need for inspectors’ visits, that allows fluent fully meets the current regulations. Central WWTP continued. 3. In 2011, large-scale coagulant tests to select the chemicals that can provide a high quality of water treatment at low temperatures were completed. The tests were successful. Using aluminium this chemical is effective for cold water in winhydroxochloride (coagulant) with its physical ter season. and chemical characteristics contributes to Using the range of chemicals will allow to inthe steady operation of clarifiers and provides crease the flexibility of the used water treata high quality of treated water. The usage of ment technology in general. The studies of new tertiary treatment proIn 2011, several pilot projects of gas cleancesses continued: ing system were implemented in the places of 140 141 concern. The performance of such systems floto-filtration a combination of two was monitored continuously throughout the processes—flotation and filtration—in year, the opinion of local inhabitants also taken one treatment stage at South-West into account. The sorption-plasma-catalytic WWTP. air cleaning unit installed at sewage pumping stations is one example of such system. double-stage filtration using zeolite and activated carbon at Metallostroy 05. In 2011, for the purpose of implementWWTP. ing energy efficient technologies and equipment in the city sewerage system, VodoVodokanal continued its search for adkanal proceeded with the design of the Cen04. SUE “Vodokanal of St. Petersburg” // Sustainability Report 2011 vanced odor control technologies to retral WWTP Modernization Project comprismove bad smell emitted during of wastewater ing the construction of digesters to produce transport, at sewage pumping stations and in the biogas as a renewable energy source for the process of wastewater treatment at WWTPs. WWTP. Innovations // Implementation of new technologies In 2011, to create comfortable and 06. In 2011, the first data collection phase of 07. the project aimed to create the integratenvironment-friendly conditions for the ed automated sewerage management system city dwellers in the winter period, Vodokanal in St. Petersburg was completed. One of the performed preparatory works for the design main objectives of this project is to improve and implementation of “stationary snow disthe energy efficiency of the sewerage system posal stations”, or, simply, snow-melting stain general. tions. The project implementation will allow to decrease the burden on the municipal “snow dumps”. Development of hydraulic simulation An essential part of water supply system upgrading is the improvement of water distribution system. 143 Activities targeted to this task are performed valves and fittings replacement, equipby SUE “Vodokanal of St. Petersburg” in sevment of the network and pumping staeral directions: tions with the advanced control valves, air release valves and valves to prevent establishment of a zoning system, which water hammer; provided for the creation of water supply zones in accordance with relevant catchdevelopment of target programs and acment areas of St. Petersburg water suption plans on water network upgrading Innovations // Development of hydraulic simulation ply plants; (including replacement of reinforcedconcrete water conduits and steel pipedevelopment and further improvement of lines without insulation). hydraulic models of water supply zones and minor territorial units i.e. the water Decision-making concerning the supply areas; network reconstruction and development of its operation mode establishment of water metering system, is based on the mathematical (or including installation of water metering hydraulic) model. systems on the network and upgrading commercial water metering systems The model allows to make multiple-option hyof all customers, in order to provide the draulic calculations, particularly, to define the automatic data transmission into a single pipe sections with minimum velocity and overdatabank; loaded sections, choose the most efficient remedy measures, calculate various water conrenovation and replacement of pumping sumption scenarios, strategies of maintenance, and other process equipment, including renovation and construction of pipelines. An the establishment of the automated proimportant aspect is a multilevel approach to the cess control system and introduction of networks sections: the sections of particular adaptive water supply control; importance, water conduits, a street distribution network and other units are detached. Patent work Detailed models have been developed and are now adjusted in some of the St. Petersburg districts (Vyborgsky, Kurortny, Krasnoselsky). A lot of work was performed on creation and the equipment performance and telemetering In 2011, SUE “Vodokanal of St. Petersburg” received 11 patents for application of such models in St. Petersburg. data. Calculation results serve as necessary 144 inventions and useful models. Besides, 16 patent applications were 145 addition to data obtained from metering devicgiven and 11 patented technical solutions were implemented. Experience has shown that the applied hydraues. Comparison of calculated and actual data lic models of water supply network adequately enables to characterize the network operation reflect water distribution in the municipal water and get signals on emergency situations. Cost benefit from the use of intellectual propents for useful models “Damper Stand-Pipe”, supply network and gives clear understanding erty in 2011 amounted to 119 mln. Rubles. “Metered Water Flow Stand-Pipe”, “Device for about velocity modes and pressure distribuVodokanal makes calculations of operatSubmerged Pump Installation” and others. tion. Models are constantly used in operation ing modes during minimal and maximal conMain principles of SUE “Vodokanal of St. Peof existing network and in drafting programs sumption hours, engineering calculations and tersburg” intellectual property policy are to: Upon the receipt of intellectual activity results and plans for the development of water supply simulation of water quality. Calculations are it is essential further to introduce and use the and distribution systems. performed with the account of constant improvide timely legal protection of intellecpatented technical solutions provements provided by the Plan-Do-Checktual property results in compliance with SUE “Vodokanal of St. Petersburg” // Sustainability Report 2011 Application of the developed models to calcuAct cycle. the intellectual property law (particularly, Over 2011, 6 technical solutions were implelate the change of water quality during its distechnical solutions as inventions and mented including the useful models of “Wastetribution is a new approach in national pracAn important source of information about netuseful models, architectural-design soluwater Sludge Disinfection System”, “A Standtice. Such calculations and other simulation work condition and its operation is field meations as industrial model); Pipe” and etc. tasks require an enhance level of detalization surements. Regular pressure and water flow of water supply models. measurements are executed in order to comprevent the violation of the Company’s In 2011, Vodokanal carried out scientific reA hydraulic model is an element of water supplement the information received from remote exclusive rights on the intellectual propsearches and experimental-design works reply management system. Calculation of hywater metering and water pressure control erty; lated to: draulic modes is performed on the basis of systems. plan and manage design works and/or search of promising water treatment development of services. methods, In 2011, the Company obtained, inter alia, the development of new technological equip­ following patents for inventions: “Filtering Mement and equipment components in wadia Testing Device for Water Treatment”, “Unter treatment, Innovations // Patent work derground Modification of the Fire Hydrant”, and patents for useful models “Geoinformasearch of promising wastewater treattion System”, “UVtreatment Device for Liqment methods, uids”, “Two-bed Pressure Filter for Enhanced Water Treatment”, “A Mobile Laboratory and development of new technological equipDiagnostic Unit”. ment in wastewater treatment systems and diagnostic equipment for wastewater In November–December 2011, Vodokanal transportation systems. received resolutions from the Federal Agency for Intellectual Property concerning the issuance of another 8 patents, including the patIT development As a result, the following models were develIn 2011, SUE “Vodokanal of St. Petersburg” The IT infrastructure of Vodokanal, a big advanced water company, oped and passed testing successfully: took an active part in the events performed 146 is an integral instrument to support its production, economic and 147 within the Intellectual Property Days. Particufinancial operation. Contactless UV-Disinfection Device for larly, Vodokanal held a research-to-practice Local Potable Water Treatment Systems, conference “Innovations in Industrial, Housing and Communal Sectors. The Role of IntelVodokanal’s IT infrastructure is divided into the The main IT development actions are aimed at Ejector Stand-Pipe Dispenser, lectual Property Services in Sector Developfollowing levels: the building of the Unified Information System ment”. for the Automation of the Company Activities Hatch of the Inspection Manhole Branch of the Russian Agency for Patents and analytical superstructure—management (UIS ACA). Equipped with the Device Preventing Its Trademarks in the North-Western Federal Disreports (OLAP level); Spontaneous Opening, trict awarded SUE “Vodokanal of St. PetersUIS ACA is used for efficient manageburg” a laureate diploma for the “Contribution automation of economic/financial and ment of information and processes: Ozone Generator, to Intellectual Property Development” in the auxiliary activities (ERP level); SUE “Vodokanal of St. Petersburg” // Sustainability Report 2011 category of “Best Enterprise in Terms of Work Gas (Ozone) Disinfection Unit. Arrangement in the Intellectual Property Field automation of production tasks (MES the staff at all levels receive the necesamong Civil Industrial Enterprises”. level); sary volumes of reliable and consistent The obtained results were used in the process American-Russian Business Union awarded information; of development of “The Innovation Developtwo useful Vodokanal models—“Automatic automatic control of equipment (SCADA ment Programme in Raw Water and WastewaWater Quality Control System at Water Treatlevel). creation of integrated information space; ter Treatment till 2015 for Water and Wastewament Plant” and “Water Intake Stand-Pipe Dister Companies in the North-Western Federal penser”—with the gold medals “Innovations District”. for Investments in Future”. Innovations // IT development In 2011, the information systems—“Main­ Single Data Base (SDB) by a batch method via 148 tenance and Repair Management” (MRO IS), prepared web-services. 149 “Investment Activity Management” (IAM IS) and “Automatic Electronic Document ManIn order to ensure data batch transmission into agement System” (AEDMS) were prepared SDB of SUE “Vodokanal of St. Petersburg” the for pilot operation. Further on, these systems Oracle DBMS has been integrated by using should allow to shift from emergency recovWeb Logic application to ensure transmission ery operations to regular maintenance and of information about attributes of the metering preventive repair of equipment and water and stations and metering devices (master data), wastewater networks, to increase the speed of as wells as about metering stations operationplanning and getting approvals of investment al modes (occurrence/termination of emerprojects, give up paper document flow and gency situation) into SDB. speed up documents review. SUE “Vodokanal of St. Petersburg” // Sustainability Report 2011 SDB receives metered values from devices Today, the automated billing system has been equipped with distant reading system. IS of the introduced in SUE “Vodokanal of St. PetersCustomer Service Centre, IS “Water Balance” burg” for customers of the Southern Water and other systems of the Company receive reSupply Zone. Metering readings are transmitmote readouts from SDB. end-to-end data exchange between the and Vodokanal’s customers within the catchted into the automated billing system from the UIS ACA subsystems and other data sysment areas of relevant discharges (IS “Direct tems of Vodokanal; Discharges”). single input of data at the point of origin; IS CSC supports the unified database, which accumulates information about clients, their integration with other Vodokanal’s inforrequests, permitting documents, contracts mation systems. with clients, meter readings, charges, billing, payments and accounts receivable, that allows Innovations // IT development In 2007-2008, the UIS ACA prototype based to improve the efficiency of customer service. on 18 subsystems (over 40 software modules) Introduction of IS “Water Balance” enables to was developed. In December 2008, acceprealize the whole cycle of business processtance tests of the UIS ACA prototype were cares of main production operations (during 24 ried out at the Water Supply Production Unit. hours or more). It allowed to optimize and control on a daily basis the production volumes, In 2009-2010, three UIS ACA subsystems consumption of chemicals, fuel for sludge inwere developed and put into full-scale opcineration and electric energy. eration: Customer Service Centre (IS CSC), Two data processing centers (DPC) were built Integrated Production Planning System, IS to support the systems, which were put into “Water Balance”, IS to provide data about Vofull-scale operation. A fail-safe cluster was dokanal’s untreated wastewater discharges launched on the basis of DPCs. Development of geoinformation system Assets of SUE “Vodokanal of St. Petersburg” comprise 15,000 km dis151 tribution system, over 780 land plots and near 1,700 buildings and structures located at the main and auxiliary production facilities in the territory of St. Petersburg. The use of advanced information technoloIt is developed with consideration of the folgies is of priority importance for the compalowing tasks to: nies, which own a large number of property items. ensure information security in operation of engineering networks, provided that To make decisions concerning operation, current configuration of the Company’s maintenance, control and design of networks communications channels and the arInnovations // Development of geoinformation system and structures, it is required to have, apart chitecture of the local computer network from the property characteristics, the exact remain unchanged; data on location and position of network and structures against the facilities of municipal inuse the address system for St. Petersfrastructure. It makes it necessary to develop burg facilities in order to ensure direct and use special geoinformation technologies access to the database; in assets management. integrate GIS into existing and designed A geographic information system (GIS) can be information systems of the Company as defined as a complex of technology software well as apply cartographic information in and graphic information means designed to external software; define location of Company’s facilities. GIS is a certain integrator of all processes distribuse WEB technologies for arrangement uted on the territory and process-related inof remote access to the database via formation systems. mobile workstations and establish the navigation system using reference staSUE “Vodokanal of St. Petersburg” has develtions of the Company. oped its own geographic information system. SUE “Vodokanal of St. Petersburg” has developed its own geographic information system. As a result, Vodokanal together with ZAO use of the city address system by the “NPO Baltros” have developed a geographic 152 153 Company to provide a direct access to information system “Baltics” (IS “Baltics”). database and ensure interaction of the information systems; GIS is a set of subsystems (modules) integrated into a single system based on MapInfo ensure information security while MapExtreme component, it allows to increase operating the engineering networks, and functionality of the system at a minimum cost, keep the configuration of the Company’s ensure relative independence of subsystems communications channels and the and their close integration in the operating architecture of the local computer network mode. Basic services are realized in the unchanged. medium, including access rights differentiation system, detailed recording of user’s actions To develop the cartographic database SUE SUE “Vodokanal of St. Petersburg” // Sustainability Report 2011 and system events, notification services, “Vodokanal of St. Petersburg” concluded user’s interface settings and automatic update the data exchange agreement with the St. of the programme. Petersburg Committee for Land Resources and Program interface is performed according to Land Management, the Committee for Urban Innovations // Development of geoinformation system Microsoft Office standards. Development and Architecture and purchased the digital 1:10000 scale maps designed by Apart from the software solutions, “Sevzapgeoinform” Centre. organizational activities were conducted to In order to ensure continuous updating of the Development of the technology and inventory introduce GIS-technologies in Vodokanal, In compliance with the agreement concluded network data, Vodokanal has developed and of the networks were executed in close coopincluding: between SUE “Vodokanal of St. Petersburg” and introduced the primary inventory of the engieration with the City Department for Inventory the Committee for Land Resources and Land neering networks, consisting of two stages: and Real-Estate Evaluation. As a result, durtechnical inventory of the network to Management, the Committee submits to the ing the period from the middle of 2005 to the define its exact composition and spatial Company on a monthly basis its actual cadastral at the first stage, map of the engineering middle of 2007, Vodokanal conducted the location; plans. All cartographic information is updated networks is developed on the basis of the inventory of all water and sewerage networks once a month. existing as-built documents and other and obtained the coordinate description of development of means to update the The Committee for Urban Development and data; over 14,000 km networks with the precision of network information upon its acceptance/ Architecture and SUE “Vodokanal of St. Pe­ 0.5 min a local coordinate system. writing-off as well as completion of tersburg” submit the approved land surveys to IS at the second stage, the company permaintenance or emergency works; “Baltics”. forms field check of the data accumuIn order to ensure continuous updating of the lated at the first stage and mark on the network data Vodokanal took actions to enexchange of information with the go­ Thematic information contains data on the map the location of the reference facilisure the use of the information system in the vernmental authorities of St. Petersburg; Company’s engineering network. ties (wells, covers or other above-ground technological processes during the whole life elements) with the precision of 0.5 m. cycle of the networks. In order to provide for remote operation of mobile workstations and facilitate access to the cartographic information for various target-groups of users, IS “Baltics” WEB-application has been developed. Today, three main trends of GIS develsurvey and report-making on the network ic data, information about engineering netequipment for connecting the data transopment in SUE “Vodokanal of St. Peters­ technical data; 154 work and its location. These functions include: mission channel with the data processing 155 burg” can be distinguished: center (differential correction and data survey and report-making on the network displaying of the cartographic data at the on the network units connections); integration of the Company information technical condition; working area (vector cartographic layers, system with the cartographic database; scanned 1:500 scale maps of undercomputer to visualize cartographic informarking-up networks with various legground utilities, etc.); mation, input and accumulate graphic updating and extension of the primary ends depending on their status (for inand attribute data. cartographic base. stance, owned by the Company, to be reception and displaying of graphical taken on balance, writing-off, recondata about the network at the working In order to provide for remote operation of modevelopment of interrelated informationstruction, capital repair, owned by other area (location of pipelines, wells, valves bile workstations and facilitate access to the computing tasks and models to support entity, technical supervision) in order to and fittings); cartographic information for various targetthe network operation. ensure data input during the inventory; groups of users, IS “Baltics” WEB-application SUE “Vodokanal of St. Petersburg” // Sustainability Report 2011 quick access to semantic data related to has been developed. IS “Baltics” was designed, primarily, as a sysidentification of priority facilities for mainthe network at the working area (charactem to support production processes of SUE tenance and work planning; teristics of pipelines, wells, valves and fitAvailability of the Internet navigation tool (for “Vodokanal of St. Petersburg”. Therefore, the tings); example, Internet Explorer) is required to acInnovations // Development of geoinformation system rage of its functions is always expanding to keeping records and making maintecess IS “Baltics” at workstations; no updating meet production and technical needs of the nance schedules. definition of coordinates with at least of basic cartographic layers and specialized Company. 0.5 m precision by using differential mode software with supplementary licenses are reThe Company has developed a module of wato determine coordinates and displaying quired for that purpose. WEB-application alFirst of all, Vodokanal is improving on an onter quality control points connected with the of location online on the cartographic lows to connect supplementary GPC devices going basis the provision, to the Company’s relevant gate valve, a module of water network background. and integrate into other information systems technical departments, of information about inspection and a register of booster pumping of the Company. Application of WEB technolonetwork units and elements, including: stations for its Water Supply Branch. The teams have at their disposal the following gies has provided an opportunity to increase equipment: the number of, IS “Baltics” users without any input and modification of network invenFor the Wastewater Disposal Branch, the growth of the system-related costs and to entory data; Company has established a specialized regisequipment for satellite positioning of geo­ sure adequate functionality of the application ter of tunnel collectors, a register of dischargdesic coordinates; and standard user interface. input and modification of network technies and a register of sewerage pumping stacal data; tions. Vodokanal has developed modules for hydrodynamic flushing of sewerage networks, input and modification of the network keeping records on flushing at sewerage nettechnical condition; work sections and register of clogging. survey and report-making on the network In order to increase the efficiency of data inventory; transmission to regular and emergency teams, Vodokanal ensured support of basic GIS functions at remote locations by using cartographEnergy-saving and energy efficiency projects SUE “Vodokanal of St. Petersburg” is one of the biggest energy consumers in St. Petersburg. In 2001, energy consumption of the Com157 pany accounted for 749 mln. kWh. Moreover, due to the implemented energyrequired by law. The energy passport will be saving projects Vodokanal managed to reduce valid for 5 years. its energy consumption almost by 40% for the last two decades. Since May 2011, Vodokanal has been developing and implementing the enIt became possible because of reduction of ergy management system (hereinafpotable water volumes supplied into the city, ter,EnMS) under ISO 50001:2011 “Energy replacement of outdated equipment with the Management Systems. Requirements energy efficient solutions, the use of alternawith Guidance for Use”. Innovations // Energy-saving and energy efficiency projects tive energy sources (heat and electric power produced by sludge incineration) as well as In 2011, Vodokanal audited the existing enactivities implemented to establish St. Petersergy management system for compliance with burg water supply management system. ISO 50001:2011, conducted the training for its personnel with regard to requirements and Since April 2011, Vodokanal has carprinciples of EnMS development and impleried out comprehensive energy inmentation, drafted EnMS documents, includspections to prepare energy passport ing the draft of “Guidance to Energy Manageof the Company and develop energyment System. General Provisions”, “Energy saving action plans to increase enerAssessment Procedures” and “Planning of Engy efficiency of its facilities. ergy Management Activities”, improved the integrated procedures of the Company in line Energy inspections included the collection and with EnMS requirements, developed the draft analysis of energy data over the last 5 years of SUE “Vodokanal of St. Petersburg” Energy and instrumental review of the Company’s faPolicy. cilities. Vodokanal analyzed reasons and nature of failures of Vodokanal’s energy equipSince January 2012, Vodokanal has started ment and developed measures to increase the the introduction of EnMS in its three main safety of its facilities. branches (Water Supply Branch, Wastewater Disposal Branch and Transport and Logistics By July 2012, Vodokanal plans to adjust its enBranch). In the first half of 2012, Vodokanal ergy-saving action plan aimed to increase enplans to organize training, competence asergy efficiency of the Company’s facilities, to sessment and study course for the Company’s complete the preparation of the energy passinternal EnSM auditors, followed by preparaport and get the energy passport approved as tion to Vodokanal EnSM certification. Awareness building Undertaking its mission, Vodokanal places special emphasis on developing careful and responsible attitude towards water resources 159 and environment in general. The recent years’ stable trend towards reducpart of Internet community was launched with tion of water consumption is, in particular, the the support of Vodokanal. The principal charresult of Vodokanal’s awareness building efacter of the Portal—the Neva Crayfish—has its forts. own pages in social networks. For the purpose of disseminating the culture of water use and developing environmental The key instruments of the Company’s awarethinking Vodokanal widely cooperates with ness building activities are the Youth Environmass media and uses the potential of different mental Center (YEC) and “The Universe of WaInternet-resources. In 2010, the Internet-porter” museum complex—both being part of the tal www.da-voda.com targeted for the active Information and Training Center branch. The Youth Environmental Social responsibility // Awareness building Social Center responsibility The Youth Environmental Center was created in 2002, and since that time many hundred thousands of children have participated in its lessons, programs and projects. One of the key targets of YEC is distribution and In 2011, the Youth Environmental Center was promotion of importance of the environment reconstructed. Two thematic halls were creatand water resources protection, defining a vied: “Hall of the First Discoveries” for kids (from sion about Vodokanal Petersburg activities and 4 to 9 years old) and “The Baltic Sea Hall” for its impact on the city development among the school children and students. younger generation, dissemination of sustainThe renovated YEC halls are equipped with able development ideas and urgent questions modern instruments widely used for interactive of the modern world. programs and activities. is demonstrated with stereo and holographic For the first time the interna160 effects and with 3D-animation (about 40 reptional project for kindergartens 161 resentatives of the Baltic fauna were drawn and families with the preschoolin 3D format in the process of its creation), ers “Water + Myself = Friends!” a game table with the touch panel, an elecwas implemented. tronic encyclopedia of the Baltic Sea inhabitants, video quizzes with the electronic voting The project involved families from St. Peterssystem, etc. burg, Russia’s regions, Finland, Ukraine, Belgium, Latvia and Japan. In the course of the Throughout the year the Youth Environmental project children were taught to care about Center paid a lot of attention to the project water at home. As a result the book “Letters activity involving children from pre-school up to Waterdrop” was published; it comprised to high-school, as well as students, teachers creative works of participants and teachers’ SUE “Vodokanal of St. Petersburg” // Sustainability Report 2011 and families. In 2011, a special attention was guides. paid to reducing the human impact on the Baltic Sea, rational water consumption and adFrom 2009 till 2011, under the project for elvanced water treatment technologies. ementary school “One Drop Saves Another!” Each hall has advanced multimedia devices YEC specialists have developed new environchildren and their parents conducted a water (touch panels, interactive boards, etc.) and mental and educational interactive programs Among the significant projects implemented in use survey in their families, developed and laboratories. Dozens of various animation vidfor the groups of different age, series of new 2011 the Youth Russian-Finnish Project “Waimplemented a water saving plan. eos and video films about water properties, brain educational games, particularly for comter, Russia, Finland—Outlook of the Young!” Social responsibility // Awareness building waterworks and wastewater treatment plants puter medias; the scenarios of educational should be mentioned, as it united young peoA new initiative of the specialists from YEC operation, the Baltic Sea and its inhabitants films have been written, the series of tutorial ple from St. Petersburg and Turku (Finland) and professional school No.89 was a collabwere prepared specially for new programs of experiments have been developed, new trainaround the idea of saving the Baltic Sea. Projorative program, aimed to raise the environthe Youth Environmental Center. All this made ing materials have been prepared and the rest ect results were presented by its members to mental culture level of the professional school the educational process more effective and of them have been updated. the President of Finland Tarja Halonen during students. The program comprised workshops fascinating. her visit to St. Petersburg in June 2011. on urgent environmental topics and efficient New interactive programs, including training methods for teachers and foremen, Waterdrop, the main YEC character, meets “Water on Earth”, “Water in everyday In 2011, the International Advanced Water interactive lessons in the YEC for students and kids in “The Hall of First Discoveries”. It helps life”, “Mysteries of Nature”, “The Sea Technologies Center, created by SUE “Vomodel lessons. them to find out how dew, snowflakes and rain Nearby”, “Secrets of the Baltics”, “The dokanal of St. Petersburg” and Lahti Science drops are formed. Besides, there is also a ship City by the Sea”, and projects and acand Business Park (Finland), was opened. Along with the projects focusing on the rational here waiting for kids to set on an imaginary tivities for children and young peoOver 2011, more than 600 school children water use problems the Youth Environmental journey over the Baltic Sea. ple from 4 to 17 years old have been and students were trained in the YEC. Within Center promotes the sustainable development performed in the renovated halls of the framework of this relationship study visits ideas, power saving and efficiency, considers In the children’s laboratory of the Youth EnviYEC. of school children from St. Petersburg to Lahti topical problems of the modern world. YEC ronmental Center young guests can conduct (Finland) and from Lahti to St. Petersburg were permanently participates in municipal and intheir first tests, watch Paramecium caudatum In interactive programs new resources of the organized. ternational festivals, events and holidays. and other microorganisms via microscope. halls are used: a video film “The Baltic Nature” Museum Complex The Universe of Water” One of the YEC activities is work with youth YEC took part in arrangement and conduction 215,769 people visited The Universe of Water in 2011. It is 6.6% more core groups. High-school core group rep162 163 of the International Program of the high school than in 2010 (then 202,408 people came to see the museum). resentatives participated in interactive prochildren education “UN Model”, the certified grams and projects of the Youth Environmental program of UN Hague Model (it is held in 90 Center. Having got new knowledge and skills, countries of the world). The Universe of Water museum complex in 56 The exhibits—documents, pictures, objects, young people arranged and held a series of YEC specialists also helped to arrange and Shpalernaya str. is an open social project of collections of sanitary equipment and hatchactivities, projects and programs for children hold interactive programs for children and SUE «Vodokanal of St. Petersburg». The mues—show the history of water supply and sewof their age and junior school children in their families at the “International Tea and Coffee seum complex not only offers the full picture of erage origination and development. own and other educational institutions of the Festival” and at municipal thematic holidays the man’s views of water and its properties, but city. The youth core group represents environ“Viva Water!”. also shows the history of St. Petersburg, the 02. Multimedia exhibition The Un­der­­ mental and educational activity of Vodokanal Those children, who visited YEC trainings or city where water is a city-forming essence and ground World of St. Petersburg”(in on the regional and international level as well. participated in its projects and programs, prothe source of scientific, engineering and culthe left annex to the Water Tower) More than 20 key events were arranged and mote the ideas of solicitous attitude to nature tural achievements rather than just something SUE “Vodokanal of St. Petersburg” // Sustainability Report 2011 held in 2011 with the involvement of the YEC and water in their families. that is used for household or industrial needs. youth core group. Visitors can trace the route of water from the The total number of participants of The museum complex comprises three exhibiintake to treatment plants, then to the flats via In 2011, the YEC youth core group participatall YEC programs, projects and actions: distribution networks and back to the treated in the XII International Environmental Forum tivities in 2011 was 31,528 people. ment plants. Here, they can also look at a gi“The Baltic Sea Day”. YEC contribution to the 01. Classical museum exhibition The gantic model of the historical center of St. Peenvironmental education of the coming generAccording to the results of the target group Water World of St. Petersburg” tersburg. The model was produced by the ation and reducing the load on the Baltic Sea questionnaire, satisfaction with the Youth Envi(in the old water tower) Institute of Architecture to Vodokanal’s order. Social responsibility // Awareness building was awarded a Forum Diploma. ronmental Center operation in 2011 was 97%. Visitors of the museum complex Number of visitors 250,000 215,769 200,000 191,733 202,408 150,000 100,000 90,552 65,560 67,020 69,265 50,000 37,052 0 2003-2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 occasion of the 300th anniversary of St. PeMuseum complex “The Universe of Water” is The record number of visitors—19,503 peo03. Multimedia exhibition “The Unitersburg. The former clean water reservoir was 164 a permanent participant of the international ple—attended the museum complex during 165 verse of Water” (in the former underground clean water reservoir) transformed into The Universe of Water museum event “Museums at Nights”. Participation in this event in 2011. in 2008 when Vodokanal St. Petersburg celethis event helps draw also attention of those It is a unique storage of modern water knowlbrated its 150th anniversary. people who are not regular museum visitors. In 2011, the following temporary exhibitions edge. The exhibition is based on multimedia 10,210 people saw the museum complex exwere organized on the museum complex technologies, stereo effects and textual exThe Water Universe offers novel interactive prohibitions over the museum night in 2011. premises: planations. Over three dozen video-films disgrams for visitors of different age groups. Interclosing various aspects of the water element active programs are developed for preschoolFrom 28 October till 13 November 2011, durthe exhibition of contemporary Baltic are demonstrated here. ers and schoolchildren, general and various ing the autumn school holidays the museum artists “The Sea Unites the Countries, It thematic excursions are offered to students and complex took part in the city festival of chilSeparates”; The exhibition in the Water Tower was opened adults. dren’s museum programs “Children’s Museum in 2003—it was Vodokanal’s present on the Days in St. Petersburg”. the exhibition of painted art-objects and SUE “Vodokanal of St. Petersburg” // Sustainability Report 2011 paintings “Four Elements”; The peculiarity of this event is independent work of children and their parents with a route the exhibition by Natalia Rumyantseva map. Thus, its participants become not only “Immersion”; passive listeners but researchers, who make their own discoveries in the world of water. the exhibition of the author’s art dolls “Living Water of the Canals and Rivers of St. Petersburg”; Social responsibility // Awareness building Visitors of the “Children’s the IX corporate exhibition of creative Museum Days” Festival works by Vodokanal St. Petersburg employees “The Power of Life”, where 60 Number of participants presented over 200 works. visitors 19,503 20,000 18,000 15,727 15,000 10,000 5,000 0 2009 2010 2011 Website da-voda Visitors of New Year’s interactive In 2011, the museum complex “The Universe The Internet portal www.da-voda.com created with the assistance programs of Water” hosted the following events: 166 of Vodokanal St. Petersburg is dedicated to water and careful at167 titude to it. With this social project Vodokanal could involve active Number Musical evenings with participation of the Internet users in its awareness-raising activities. of visitors people’s actor Vasily Gerello, the solo5,755 ist of Mariinsky Theatre Olga Pudova, 6,000 the International symphony orchestra of The key themes of Da-Voda Portal are: Furthermore, a new flash-game “The Neva 5,000 Tavricheskaya Capella. Crayfish against Garbage” appeared on the 4,405 4,100 exhaustibility of water resources; Portal in 2011. The scene of the game is 4,000 Evening meetings with the people’s actor St. Petersburg—the motherland of the Neva of the USSR V.S. Lanovoy and the peoprotection of the Baltic Sea from polluCrayfish. The user task is to help the main 3,000 ple’s actor V.I. Gaft. tion; character of the website collect all the gar2,000 bage thrown into the Neva by careless citizens SUE “Vodokanal of St. Petersburg” // Sustainability Report 2011 The evening “To the Memory of Master” how to handle water with care. and guests. 1,000 dedicated to P.S. Velyaminov with participation of the people’s actor of Russia The main character of the Portal is the Neva Regularly, the Portal posts interviews with 0 2009 2010 2011 Svetlana Kryuchkova, the people’s actor Crayfish: at his video-lessons he tells, for exwell-known people who have something to of Russia Sergey Migitsko, the people’s ample, how to install a water meter in your flat tell about careful attitude to water. In 2011, actor of Russia Vladimir Tatosov, the peoin a proper way. the “guests” of Da-Voda Portal were Neville At the end of December, 62 New Year’s interple’s actor Ivan Krasko, the people’s acSpiteri, the Hollywood special effects director, active programs for Vodokanal employees’ tor of Russia Boris Smolkin, the honored The special section “Gadgets” contains inforactors from “Univer” TV serial, TV presenters Social responsibility // Awareness building children and schoolchildren of the city were actress of Russia Taisia Kalichenko and mation about different devices that can reduce Anton Komolov and Olga Shelest, the most held. 5,775 children participated in them. the singer Elena Vaenga. water consumption (without impairing your “Russian Finn”—actor Ville Haapasalo, the comfort) and evaluates their pros and cons. engineer Andre Laban, former companion of The Portal visitors will learn how much water Jacques-Yves Cousteau, and others. can be saved by using infrared sensor mixing faucets; why spray nozzles should be used; In December 2011, the Internet Portal dawhat shower meters are, etc. voda.com became the winner of the prestigious international contest in the field of One of the most popular sections of the webpublic relations—PROBA-IPRA Golden World site is “Da-Voda TV”: videos about the ecology Awards-2011 in the nomination “Best Social of water bodies in the North-West Region. PR Project”. Da-Voda Portal is the initiator and active parIn 2010, the Portal won the Russian National ticipant of the city’s environmental campaigns. Runet Award in the nomination “Health and In 2011, garbage removal actions were orgaRecreation”. nized and held at the lakes and river banks with the support of the Portal. Environment protection and labour safety Environment protection Protection of the environment and the Baltic Sea, rational use of natural resources and responsibility for the results of the Com169 pany’s activities before future generations have been stated among the key priorities of SUE “Vodokanal of St. Petersburg” and comprise one of the strategic targets of the Company. Vodokanal’s environmental concept is based tal management system as an essential part on understanding its role to ensure a positive of the Company management while studying environmental situation in the whole Baltic Sea current and future needs of all stakeholders, Region. A key international line of leader’s acdeveloping water consumption culture and Social responsibility // Environment protection and labour safety tivity provides for participation in public and incontributing to preservation of the Baltic Sea tergovernmental structures of the countries of basin. the Baltic Region, particularly, in terms of the International Convention of the Helsinki ComIn 2011, the following strategic targets in terms mission—Baltic Marine Environment Protecof the environment protection were updated: tion Commission (HELCOM). Improvement of the ecological state of Taking into account the Company’s responwater bodies and the environment (desibility for the sustainable development of the crease of the environmental load on the city and the Baltic Sea Region and considering water bodies of St. Petersburg, the Gulf the approaches applied in the environmental of Finland and the Baltic Sea; reducmanagement and the experience of similar tion of landfill areas used for wastewaEuropean companies, in 2000, Vodokanal’s ter sludge storage, closure of untreated management made a decision to implement wastewater and flush water discharges). the environmental management system in accordance with ISO 14001. In 2003, the enviIncrease of energy efficiency of the water ronmental management system was certified supply and wastewater disposal facilities, in the national company Russian Register implementation of resources and energy Certification Association and the international saving policy (plants renovation, implecompany SAI Global. mentation of the power consumption mode control system, implementation of Starting from 2003, Vodokanal’s environmenthe power management system in comtal policy was revised in 2008 and 2011 (since pliance with ISO 50001). a considerable part of commitments specified therein were fulfilled). Development of the water consumption culture and environmental consciousDuring 2011, Vodokanal continued a sucness. cessive implementation of the environmenOur target in terms of the environment protecwater discharged directly into water bodies. Vodokanal, the use of energy produced in the Environmental Center (more detailed information is to apply the best practices and technolSuch a figure could be achieved by reaching course of wastewater sludge incineration and tion see in “Awareness Building” section). ogies, create conditions for sustainable devela level of 0.3-0.4 mg/l phosphorus in effluent establishment of the water supply manageopment of not only our city but the whole Baltic at the main wastewater treatment plants. ment system should be mentioned. “St. Petersburg has done a lot to improve its Sea Region. image. The history of the city success proves Along with implementation of the enhanced that political will and motivation are very impor05. To alleviate the negative environmental phosphorus removal from wastewater, Voimpact of sludge landfills, since 2010, tant when environmental law requirements are In 2011, Vodokanal carried out dokanal dealt with the problem of eliminating we have been implementing the first phase of not enough, and more strict measures should the following activities in another nutrient—nitrogen—from wastewater. 170 sludge landfills reclamation at Severny Landfill be taken. In terms of harmful discharge reduc171 these directions: near the village of Novoselki. The methods of tion, St. Petersburg reached higher results 03. Another achievement was the implechemical treatment and stationary dewatering than stipulated by the Russian and European 01. The next stage of a large-scale program of untreated wastewater dischargmentation of wastewater sludge utilizaof wastewater sludge in geo-tubes has been norms”,—states Anne Christine Brusendorff, tion technology. St. Petersburg was the first city used for decreasing the hazard class and the HELCOM Executive Secretary. es clo­sure was completed. Wastewater from in the world to solve the problem of wastewater sludge volume, and removal of odor. Reducsmall WWTPs was connected to the Northern sludge utilization. Now, three sludge incineration of pollutants emission is achieved by reMoreover, the President of Finland Tarja HaWastewater Treatment Plant (NWWTP); direct tion plants are in operation in the city. One of ducing area of the sludge landfills. lonen noted in June, 2011 that St. Petersburg discharge points at Arsenalnaya and Vyborgthem, located at the South-West Wastewater met more strict requirements compared to skaya Embankments were eliminated (the Treatment Plant is equipped with the flue gas Vodokanal educational activity contributed to those applied by EU countries, and identified Social responsibility // Environment protection and labour safety wastewater is now channeled to NWWTP for biomonitoring system, which uses snails. the achievements as well. The Company has Vodokanal’s projects as “encouraging envitreatment). As a result 94% of wastewater will the Universe of Water Museum and the Youth ronmental practice”. SUE “Vodokanal of St. Petersburg” // Sustainability Report 2011 be treated in St. Petersburg. 04. The energy management system is based on a complex of activities, aimed 02. In June 2011, HELCOM requirements to phosphorus content in the discharged at energy metering automation, identification and elimination of irrational use of energy. VoIndicators of pollutant discharges to St. Petersburg water bodies wastewater were completely fulfilled. Phosdokanal St. Petersburg pays a special attenphorus content in St. Petersburg wastewater is tion to the energy efficiency problems. Among Indicator Unit 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 under 0.5 mg/l, even with regard to the wastethe key energy saving projects implemented in Flow of wastewater discharged through public sewerage systems into Mio.m3/ water bodies year 1,026.1 1,023.6 1,034.6 970.4 952.1 931.6 Mass of suspended solids discharged into water bodies t/year 20,535.0 19,418 21,845.4 15,826.9 14,120.8 13,706.9 Mass of BOD discharged into water bodies t/year 26,860.2 26,074.3 28,627.3 18,718.2 17,677.9 15,635.6 Mass of total nitrogen discharged into water bodies t/year 11,282.1 11,037.3 11,048.2 10,729.6 10,003 10,048.6 Mass of total phosphorus discharged into water bodies t/year 1,576.7 1,269.7 1,177.8 759.9 677.7 492.4 Total pollutants emission into the atmosphere t/year 4,468 4,555.7 4,538.2 4,653.9 4,790.0 3,952.0 Labour safety Vodokanal’s Occupational Health & Safety Management System deDuring 2011, SUE “Vodokanal of St. Petersit was ensured that 100% of employees veloped in accordance with the requirements of the international 172 burg” carried out as a part of the Occupational had personal protective equipment; 173 standard OHSAS 18001-2007 and applicable Russian law guarantees Health & Safety Management System the folthat identified risks are under the control of the Company. lowing activities: training and knowledge testing of 6,837 company employees in occupational working conditions at ten company prohealth and safety was carried out. The main purpose of the Company’s occumonitoring of health status of employees duction facilities were improved due to pational health and safety policy (updated in (health survey for the detection of early the introduction of new, safe practices Accident prevention allowed to ensure the folJune 2011) is no occupational accidents and symptoms of diseases, biological moniand advanced technologies that ensure lowing core indicators in the Company: the creation of necessary conditions at worktoring, polling of employees). reliable and failure-free operation., as places to achieve high performance results, well as reduce the rate of injuries and the number of insurance events per 1000 Social responsibility // Environment protection and labour safety the complexity of production, the diversity of The international audit carried out in Noprofessional diseases; employees (Vodokanal’s average is 0.69; applied technologies and equipment being vember 2011 confirmed that OHSAS at SUE industry average is 1.51); SUE “Vodokanal of St. Petersburg” // Sustainability Report 2011 taken into account. “Vodokanal of St. Petersburg” operated in monitoring the assessment of safe workcompliance with the requirements of OHSAS ing conditions at 1,048 workplaces was the number of days of temporary disabilEmployees of SUE “Vodokanal of St. Peters18001-2007. organized and carried out based on inity per one insurance event (Vodokanburg” and all stakeholders (contractors, visistrumental measurements of hazardous al’s average is 87.8; industry average is tors) are informed about the Company’s ocIn 2011, in order to ensure safe working conand harmful production factors; 73.23). cupational health and safety policy. ditions, 1048 workplaces were certified for working conditions in the Vodokanal structural The effective operation of OHSAS at SUE “Vosubdivisions. On the basis of certification reAccident rate by years dokanal of St. Petersburg” provides also for sults, action plans to improve working condithe employee’s health safety management. tions (ensure safe working conditions) of the Accident rate Programs for disease prevention and health employees in the Company’s structural subdi14 improvement of employees, monitoring of visions. Upon the results of workplace certifi12 working conditions and health of employees, cation, 48 actions were carried out to ensure 12 as well as monitoring of efficiency of the taken safe working conditions for Company employ9 10 9 measures have become an important element ees. During 2011, regular checks to meet la8 of OHSAS. bour safety requirements were carried out in 8 7 subdivisions. Over the review period, 463 vio6 6 6 6 5 5 The monitoring system includes: lations of health and occupational safety requirements were corrected. 4 3 monitoring of working environment (assessment of sanitary and hygienic work2 ing conditions, organization of labour and 0 maintaining favourable social-psycho2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 logical environment at work); Accident rate Trend Personnel policy The staff of Vodokanal numbered 9,173 people as of 31.12.2011. The average age of employees is 42.9 years. improvement of the personnel develop34% of Vodokanal employees have a higher or ment system, incomplete higher education. In 2011, the employee turnover in Vodokanal preservation and development of the was 9.11%. company human resources, 175 Work with the personnel in Vodokanal is built in increasing of the company personnel accordance with the personnel management satisfaction. strategy and policy. Vodokanal’s personnel management policy is The strategic goals of the Company in personaimed to implement these goals. nel management are: Personnel management work is based on the increasing of the personnel deployment process approach. efficiency, Adaptation and tutorship An important area of work with the personnel is to provide fast adaptation of the newly employed by Vodokanal for their profesSocial responsibility // Personnel policy sional development, optimization of entering trainees into the Company social environment. The hands-on training and adaptation procompany tradition. In 2011, three such events cess is conducted in accordance with an indiwere held. The newly employed got a possividual plan, which the leader develops taking bility to ask questions, get information on the into account the education and specialized career development in the Company, social training of the newly employed. programs and visit the museum complex “The In 2011, 1615 persons went through adaptaUniverse of Water”. At the event the employtion procedures. Organizing “Welcome to Voees were handed the Company’s badge. dokanal” festive events has become a good Innovative contributions Personnel of the personnel satisfaction In 2011, the Company held a contest for the 23 innovative projects were submitted. survey best innovative project in the personnel manAccording to the contest results the winners agement. and all participants were given diplomas and In 2011, the personnel satisfaction survey of 2012. In 2011, results of the action plans The aim of the contest was to find new promiscash bonuses. based on the satisfaction index analysis, loyalaimed at increasing personnel satisfaction ing technologies and solutions in the field of The best project ideas will be put into practice ty and commitment was not performed. It was were analyzed; the survey questionnaire was personnel management. by Vodokanal St. Petersburg. 176 decided to conduct the survey in the first half updated and supplemented. 177 Personnel recruitment, Personnel training motivation and appraisal and development Personnel recruitment is performed in comModern HR-technologies are used to search Personnel development management is made internal tutors was trained to support the appliSUE “Vodokanal of St. Petersburg” // Sustainability Report 2011 pliance with the Company standards “Labor for, and select candidates through Internet through competence management. cation of knowledge and skills acquired by the Market Research” and “Recruitment and Emresources, specialized publications, employgroup of talents in everyday practice. ployment Procedures” both in the internal and ment services, interviewing, case studies and Competence models and performance indiexternal labor markets. comprehensive candidate appraisal. cators have been determined for the positions The succession pool ensures the continuity of in the succession pool and positions assessed management and reduces the risk of losing Personnel recruitment is performed based on Personnel appraisal is made in accordance in 2011. control over the Company in the transitional applications prepared by heads of business with the Vodokanal’s standard “The Personnel period of changing the Company top-manunits. The application includes selection criAppraisal System”. 245 people were involved Work with the Company succession pool is agement. teria for candidates i.e. qualification requirein the appraisal activities in 2011. carried out in compliance with the standard Social responsibility // Personnel policy ments. To fill vacancies, first of all, candidates “Work with Succession Pool”. Vodokanal provides the continuous training are selected from the Company’s succession 44 junior managers underwent training on the system “From Worker to Manager” in accorpool. To search for and select candidates the topic “Job performance management and perAt present, Company “key positions” are sedance with the personnel management policy. internal labour market has been created that sonnel efficiency assessment”. The training lected. Current succession pool has been 9,893 trainees participated in the training prois supported by the Company’s information was conducted in cooperation with the School identified, which includes employees who act grams in 2011 (Vodokanal employees may system. of Management Skills. for the supervisors during their absence, as take several programs in one year). well as prospective employees, namely, spe1,053 company employees were trained in cialists and chiefs for certain “key positions”. 2011. The training was related to vocational preparation, retraining and refresher courses Besides, a group of talents has been sorted for blue collar jobs, including 816 people from out of the personnel reserve, which includes the Professional School No. 89. employees with the highest development potential. In order to develop manager compe6,837 employees underwent training on heath tences and leadership potential, 32 employand occupational safety, road safety and saniees from the group of talents were trained at tary and hygiene regulations for the populathe School of Succession Pool. A group of 10 tion. Number of trainees and types of training contests, including the contest “Best Profesutilities in St. Petersburg and Leningradskaya sional” held among the workers of St. PetersOblast, the contest “Stroymaster 2011”, as Number of burg public utilities, the contest “Best Prowell as the contest within the framework of the persons fessional” held among the workers of public exhibition “Russian Industrialist”. 6,837 Vocational training, retraining and 7,000 6,596 refresher courses for blue collar jobs 6,000 Personnel training in line with regulations related to HSS, traffic Participation in professional skills contests 5,000 safety and sanitary and epidemio“Best Professional” in 2011 logic safety of the population 178 179 4,000 Computer course and communiNumber of Number of 2,688 cative skills course professions participants 3,000 Workshops and refresher courses 20 18 250 2,000 for managers and specialists 18 222 1,171 1,453 1,053 15 200 1,000 550 15 170 175 172 284 12 150 158 0 10 150 10 120 120 2010 2011 10 100 102 100 108 100 5 50 1,453 people took computer course and comby the International Advanced Water Technol0 0 SUE “Vodokanal of St. Petersburg” // Sustainability Report 2011 municative skills course. ogies Centre. 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 550 people attended workshops and refresher The main ways to implement training activities Planned Actual courses for managers and specialists, and are internal training programmes and external 275 of them underwent training on the topic training (procurement of educational servic“Advanced Water and Wastewater Technoloes), as well as implementation of partnership gies” under the training programme organized educational projects. Corporate media Social responsibility // Personnel policy Since 1999, Vodokanal has been publishing Vladislav Dochenko, Chairman of the Board Professional its corporate newspaper “Vodokanal News”. The newspaper is published 10 times a year of the John Nurminen Foundation (Finland) Juha Nurminen, representatives of the Baltic with circulation of 4000 copies. The corpoSea Foundation, were published in the newsskills rate newspaper not only informs the Company paper. employees about events taking place in VodoOn the company corporate website contests kanal but also makes it possible for employees www.vodokanal.spb.ru the newspaper is to congratulate their colleagues with important placed in electronic form. A special form of training activities and personIn 2011, Vodokanal held 18 final professional dates, exchange views on topical issues, etc. In 2011, another Company Internet renel development is professional skills contests skills contests “Best Professional”, where 222 In 2011, the corporate newspaper paid a lot source—the museum complex website that make it possible to achieve and maintain a persons participated. That figure has been of attention to Vodokanal’s activity related the (www.vodokanal-museum.ru) continued to high professional personnel level, ensure disa record-breaking indicator since 2006. Baltic Sea protection. Interviews with chief exbe developed. semination of advanced and innovative techperts, for instance, the Director of St. PetersIn 2011, the new Company Intranet Portal niques and methods of work, as well as proHigh professional level of the Company’s burg Research Center for Ecological Safety vodokanal-info was launched. vide employees with access to knowledge and workers is evidenced by Vodokanal workers experience gained in the Company. success in interdisciplinary professional skill Social Policy Social policy of Vodokanal St. Petersburg is a part of personnel management and has a special place in the employee motivation development, improving their self-expression in work. Principles of social policy implementation 181 A corporate social policy of SUE “Vodokanal of St. Petersburg” provides for a decent standard of life for its personnel and considers mutual interests of the Company and its employees. Increase of the labour productivity and the staff qualification upgrade; Company performance is ensured not only through basic wages but also through moral social security level increase; encouragement programs. Vodokanal management realizes the imporcreating conditions for healthy lifestyle of tance of social protection of the personnel and its personnel and their families; considers development of numerous social programs its priority task. team building; Vodokanal has defined the following priorities reduction in staff turnover. of its socially-oriented activity: The keystone of high performance of SUE “Voincrease of motivation and labor producdokanal of St. Petersburg” is a constant contivity; cern for its employees. raising the attractiveness of work at the Social responsibility // Social Policy Company; Social protection program and targeted material assistance In accordance with the Collective Agreement age; as well as for an uninterrupted serof SUE “Vodokanal of St. Petersburg” the folvice in the Company; lowing payments were made in 2011: monthly targeted material assistance to lump-sum payment to retiring employveterans of the Great Patriotic War (forees; to employees who reached jubilee mer Company employees), payments to the war veterans on the occasion of the payments for childbirth; In 2011, the award ceremony for the title “Hontive participation in the Clean Baltic Sea Full Lifting of Leningrad Siege and the orary Employee of Vodokanal St. Petersburg” Project, Victory Day, payments to the citizens of payments after death of a relative; took place in connection to the Company’s besieged Leningrad, to Nazi camp prisBirthday, anniversaries and memorable dates. eight employees received certificates of oners (former Company employees); payments to employees, who worked for honor from the Governor of St. Petersthe Company prior to a recruitment into 13 employees were awarded this title in 2011. burg, quarterly targeted material assistance to the Armed Forces of the Russian Federaretired employees (former Company emtion and were newly employed. In 2011, 68 Vodokanal employees got awards ten employees received gratitude from ployees); from St. Petersburg Government Agencies the Governor of St. Petersburg, In 2011, the material assistance was provided and Authorities, including: financial assistance for medical treatto 808 people: 757 employees, 51 former emforty six employees got awards from the ment, in case of damage caused by fire, ployees and their relatives. 182 four employees were awarded certificates city executive and legislative bodies. 183 natural disaster, theft etc.; of honor by the Ministry of the Regional Development of the Russian Federation 527 Vodokanal employees were presentfor contribution to the improvement of ed with awards and gratitude. the Baltic Sea environment and for acRecognition of employees’ Catering achievements and Transport SUE “Vodokanal of St. Petersburg” // Sustainability Report 2011 All Vodokanal’s employees are provided with which are delivered to their work places in spe1. Awarding the title “Labour Vetersystem of St. Petersburg. The title of “Honorary corporate catering on the territory of the cially equipped vehicles. an of Vodokanal St. Petersburg” Employee of Vodokanal St. Petersburg” can Company in accordance with canteens’ work For over 10 years the employees have been be awarded for development, mastering and schedules in each Branch, with partial comprovided with special transport to deliver them In 2011, the Company awarded its personnel implementation of modern equipment and pensation of the cost of meals. Emergency to their work places in the morning and to the with the title “Labour Veteran of Vodokanal cutting-edge technologies, implementation of teams and drivers, working 24-hour shifts, are nearest underground station at the end of the St. Petersburg” quarterly. This title is awarded the labour management types and methods provided with free hot meals in the night time, working day. to the employees who have had 20 years or yielding considerable economic effect, promore of uninterrupted work experience in the motion of a positive Company image in Russia Company (in exceptional cases not less than and abroad, tutorship, promotion of the Com10 years, taking into account the employee’s pany’s corporate culture and high professional Recreation organization for Social responsibility // Social Policy particular contribution). The awarding of the title competence. is accompanied by presenting with a special badge and paying a money reward. Awarding of the title is accompanied by preemployees and their families In 201, 128 employees were awarded the title senting the employee with a special badge “Labour Veteran of Vodokanal of St. Petersburg”. “Honorary Employee of Vodokanal St. PetersCreation of the comfortable and healthy environment for labor, burg”, by issuing a certificate, making an apeveryday life and recreation of employees, comprehensive solution 2. Awarding the title “Honorary Empropriate entry in the employee’s work record of social and domestic problems form the basic principles of SUE ployee of Vodokanal St. Petersand by paying a monetary reward to the em“Vodokanal of St. Petersburg”. burg” ployee. The title is awarded by recommendation of An honorary employee has a right to obtain a “Burevestnik” and “Orlovsky” sanatoria are families to buy vouchers for health care and managers and groups of staff to the Compafree voucher to sanatorium “Burevestnik” for used for supporting and promoting health of recreation in a sanatorium “Burevestnik” at ny’s employees, as well as to other persons a health-improving vacation and sanatoriumall employees and their families and for pera reduced price. In order to prevent occupawho have made a considerable contribution and-spa treatment. sonnel rehabilitation, too. The Company gives tional diseases and reduce labor losses, Voto development of water supply and sewerage an opportunity for the employees and their dokanal employees working in harmful and Health care (or) hazardous labor conditions are provided In 2011, over 2608 children visited the camp Vodokanal’s social policy in terms of provision of medical care to extra leaves (over-leaves under the legislation (in winter, spring, summer and autumn vaca184 185 its employees is based on a package of services aimed at health of the Russian Federation) up to 10 calendar tions). protection, disease prevention, provision of timely and high-qualidays long. Such leaves are provided to the Shifts harmonically combine sports and crety medical aid, modern and high-technological treatment methods. employees for rehabilitation and recreation ative work; children can express themselves in “Burevestnik” sanatorium free of charge. In on sports grounds and on stage, and also get 2011, 133 employees of Vodokanal spent reto know the history and customs of various SUE “Vodokanal of St. Petersburg” comprises creation of the integrated system of medihabilitation leaves in the sanatorium. countries during the thematic sessions. a Medical Center as its branch. Its structural cal support to Vodokanal employees, which units provide a multilevel medical care system includes the occupational medicine, modern During summer vacations the Company emVarious hobby groups function, where chilfor the Company’s employees. outpatient care, high-tech medical investigaployees can send their children to the children make presents for their relatives, set on tions, preventive recreation and rehabilitation. dren’s health camp “Zvyozdny”, located at fascinating journeys in picturesque places, It consists of the following facilities: Medical aid is provided to Vodokanal employone of “Burevestnik” sanatorium sites for vahorse rides and bicycle tours as well, promote ees under compulsory health insurance and SUE “Vodokanal of St. Petersburg” // Sustainability Report 2011 cation periods. health in a swimming pool. two sites of Diagnostic and Treatment voluntary health insurance (outpatient care, Center, having the departments of medidental care, doctor on call, emergency medical examination, professional suitability cal services) programs. expertise, radiodiagnosis, clinical laboratory; The Medical Center employs 8 Doctors and 15 Candidates of Medical Science, 55 doctors, dental clinic; 57 nurses of the highest category. The Center concluded three cooperation contracts—with medical units of “Burevestnik” sanatoMedical Academy of Postgraduate Studies, rium; Federal Center of Heart, Blood and Endocrinology named after V.A. Almazov, Russian Social responsibility // Social Policy medical units of the production branches Scientific Center of Radiology and Surgical (10 health posts, exclusive of the one in Technologies, and 56 contracts with medical the licensing process). insurance organizations and legal entities. In October 2011, the Medical units of “OrloTotally, in 2011, 86,359 medical services were vsky” sanatorium affiliated to the Medical Cenprovided to Vodokanal employees at two sites ter Branch. The medical rehabilitation departof Diagnostic and Treatment Center; this figure ment of the Diagnostic and Treatment Center is 6% higher than that in 2010. was established there, thus allowing for the Amount of medical services provided Number of visitors preliminary health checks of employment In the Vodokanal Collective Agreement in 58,650 58,381 Outpatient Clinic candidates. force, the following opportunities of obtaining 60,000 (Kavalergardskaya str.) a medical care are specified: 50,000 Outpatient Clinic In 2011, medical standards for ambulatory (Moskovsky Av.) care were revised, plans of follow-up care for free medical care under compulsory 40,000 Radiological Department 2012 were generated on the basis of standard medical insurance (CMI) and (voluntary (Moskovsky Av.) medical survey of employees in 2011, and the health insurance) VHI policies based 30,000 25,572 Oncology Register was developed in the Dion the Medical Center divisions (the Di20,588 agnostic and Treatment Center of the branch. agnostic and Treatment Center and the 20,000 In 2011, The Medical Center Branch develDental Clinic are standard for Vodokanal 186 oped the company standard Vodokanal SPb employees); 187 10,000 2,280 2,406 STO (organization standard) 24.2-2012 “The procedure of preliminary and regular medical individual medical and cosmetological 0 2010 2011 surveys of employees of SUE “Vodokanal St. services beyond the CMI and VHI proPetersburg” exposed to adverse and (or) hazgrams (particularly, Vodokanal employardous working conditions”. According to this ees can pay a reduced price for ceramicNumber of Vodokanal employees covered by clinical and standard, “Health Passports” will be prepared metal prosthesis); occupational health checks (persons) and issued to more than 5000 employees in 2012. VHI of employees who have worked in Number of visitors the enterprise at least for a year and their 6,000 occupational health In 2011, the medical information system “Aviminor children; 5,160 checks cenna” continued to be improved. A new secSUE “Vodokanal of St. Petersburg” // Sustainability Report 2011 4,877 tion for records of follow-up care was develrehabilitation leaves for up to 10 calendar 5,000 4,474 dispensary 4,419 4,150 observation oped and implemented: now, employees can days (for the employees with the 5-year 4,000 be automatically informed that they should employment history in the Company) for 3,323 3,408 pass a medical examination by e-mail via Intreatment in the “Burevestnik” sanato3,000 tranet or by sms. An electronic out-patient rium according to the list of occupations 2,316 2,297 2,101 medical record on flash media was developed, (positions), specified in the Appendix to 2,000 the first 500 samples of which will be given to the Collective Agreement; Vodokanal employees as part of a pilot project 1,000 in 2012. issuance of vouchers for rest and treatment in “Burevestnik” and “Orlovsky” 0 Social responsibility // Social Policy 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 In 2011, the number of working day losses regular heath checks of Company emreduced by 10% compared with the previous ployees exposed to adverse and (or) year and the sickness rate of Vodokanal emhazardous working conditions—occupaployees reduced by 23%. tional health checks; The complex of measures directed at protecmandatory vaccination decreed employtion of the company employees’ health inee groups and also vaccination to precludes besides remedial measures: vent seasonal infections (flue, A.R.V.I.). dispensary observation according to the photofluorographic survey to prevent turesults of a medical survey; berculosis and early detect respiratory diseases; Sports support sanatoria with the opportunity for the emThe social protection of Company employees Implementation of the comprehensive rehavolleyball, football, table tennis, swimming, ployees and their families to pay from 10 also comprises an opportunity to receive a fibilitation program and arrangement of sports ski race teams, as well as a veteran’s football to 50% of their cost; nancial aid to pay the expensive treatment or events contribute to development and supteam are organized on a regular basis. free medical services in case of appeal to the port of healthy life, team building, strengthenmedical care for former Vodokanal emsocial commission of the branch (at a primary 188 ing interpersonal relationship and friendly ties. Vodokanal teams took an part in sport con189 ployees, participants of the Great Paplace of employment). Sports contests of vodokanals, festivals and tests arranged by Physical Training and Sports triotic War, having the certificate “The traditional winter and summer sports tourist Society FSO Russia (1st place winner), InterPar­­ticipant of the Great Patriotic War”, as All medical services, which can be obtained meetings are annually held for the Company regional Trade Union Committee (1st place), well as Company employees and former by Vodokanal employees, are available to their employees in the territory of “Burevestnik” sanCentral St. Petersburg District (2nd place). Company employees, who worked at Vofamilies at a price reduced up to 20% from its atorium. dokanal facilities during the Siege of Leninitial cost. Company employees’ children can A sport contest of SUE “Vodokanal of St. Peingrad—under the program of compulconsult a pediatrician in the Diagnostic and In 2011, the following events took place in tersburg” was arranged among the branch sory medical insurance in the Diagnostic Medical Center, located at 103 Moskovsky av., “Burevestnik”: teams that included 11 kinds of sports. and Treatment Center. bldg. 2. A winter sports meeting of “Transport and In 2011, Vodokanal employees also particiLogistics” and “St. Petersburg Water Suppated in the following sports events: SUE “Vodokanal of St. Petersburg” // Sustainability Report 2011 ply” Branches, where over 370 employHealth indicators in Vodokanal, ees participated. FSO “Russia” Ping-Pong Club ChampiSt. Petersburg and the Russian Federation onship; A winter sports Vodokanal meeting par2.9 9.3 0.8 3.0 ticipated by over 300 employees Central District Head Mini Football Cup; 15.8 16.1 12.1 Two sports contests of Russia’s vodokaCentral District Mini Football Friendship nals “Fellowship” participated by teams Cup; from Nizhny Novgorod, Cherepovets, % % % Vologda, Veliky Novgorod, Vladimir and “Veterans” Mini Football Championship; 19.7 other cities of Russia—over 350 people. Social responsibility // Social Policy 23.6 Football tournament between teams of 58.6 61.2 The Youth Games Festival, which allowed Vodokanal St. Petersburg and Hamburg 77.8 more than 300 young employees to exWasser; press their sports achievements. City Football Championship; SUE “Vodokanal of St. Petersburg” St. Petersburg RF A summer sports Vodokanal meeting, participated by over 500 employees. Volleyball Championship (amateur lea­ I group II group III group IV and V groups gue); Sports activities are one of the most important lines of Vodokanal corporate life. Sports Russia Kayak and Canoe Paddling grounds and swimming pools are rented for Cham­pionship among veterans. sports activities and exercises. Vodokanal One of the results of the Medical Center In the Company it is 39.4% that is significantly branch activity is the indicator of healthy and higher than in St. Petersburg (21.4%) and on apparently healthy people (I-II health groups). average in Russia (35.8%). Legal framework of tariff regulation SUE “Vodokanal of St. Petersburg” is a municipal company carrying out regulated activities in the field of water supply and 191 wastewater disposal in St. Petersburg and the suburbs. Tariff policy // Legal framework of tariff regulation The legal framework and general principles of At the level of the subject of the Russian Fedpricing and tariff regulation for public utilities eration, the powers of the St. Petersburg state are established by the Federal Law No. 210executive bodies in the field of tariff and surFZ dated 30 December 2004 “On Principles of charge regulation for municipal companies, in Public Utility Tariffs Regulation” and the Decree particular, SUE “Vodokanal of St. Petersburg”, of the RF Government No. 520 dated 14 July are exercised by the St. Petersburg Tariff Com2008 “On Pricing Principles and Regulation of mittee under the current law. Tariffs, Surcharges and Limiting Indices to Be Tariff Used by Public Utilities”. Under the current law, the tariffs for municipal water companies are regulated at the federal Within its authority, the Tariff Committee sets tariffs for goods and services in the water sector subject to the limiting index established for St. Petersburg, tariffs for connection to the policy level by the Federal Tariff Authority. This federal executive body is authorized to exercise legal control over the national regulation of prices (tariffs) for services and to monitor the use municipal infrastructure; approves investment programmes and production programmes of SUE “Vodokanal of St. Petersburg”. The Tariff Committee checks how the tariffs are apthereof; it sets the average price change limits plied and, if necessary, inspects Vodokanal for the subjects of the Russian Federation. operations to see whether the prices (tariffs) Principles of tariff policy are justified and applied properly; it also moniThe tariff is made up of two components: The Federal Law No. 210-FZ dated 30 Detions and the use of energy saving techtors the progress of production and investment 192 cember 2004 establishes the following gennologies by the public utilities; 193 programmes. Moreover, the Tariff Committee tariff for the production programme fieral principles of tariff regulation: checks whether municipal utilities meet the nancing, create conditions as required for the raisinformation disclosure standards approved by the balance of interests between the ing of investments in order to develop the Government of the Russian Federation. tariff surcharge to finance Vodokanal’s public utility and its customers should be and upgrade the infrastructure of public investment program. reached to ensure affordability of goods utilities; The Tariff Committee issues a special instrucand services provided by the public utility tion establishing tariffs for Vodokanal water The Committee sets tariffs for connection to and, at the same time, efficient work of full repayment of the costs incurred by services for each customer group and each water and sewerage networks throughout the the public utility; a public utility in the process of implesubsequent fiscal year. effective period of Vodokanal investment promenting its production and investment gramme. the tariffs and surcharges should cover program; financial needs of the public utility as reSUE “Vodokanal of St. Petersburg” // Sustainability Report 2011 quired for the implementation of its proaccessibility of information on the strucduction and investment programs; ture of tariffs and surcharges. motivate reduction of production costs, Vodokanal works in strict compliance with the improve economic efficiency of operaabove principles. Tariff policy // Principles of tariff policy Reasons for tariff increase When planning financial and economic activiby a relevant tariff (price) regulating auties and the production programme of Vodothority; kanal, the total expenditures determining the tariff are calculated inclusive of material costs. forecasted price change indices by secThe latter are estimated on the basis of: tors of industry; For purchase of materials, works forecasted consumer price indices offiand services: cially published by the Russian Ministry of Economic Development; state-regulated tariffs (prices) or their projected values officially communicated Wastewater tariffs of SUE “Vodokanal of St. Petersburg” in 2011 macroeconomic indicators of forecasted are estimated on the basis of target per­for­ socio-economic development approved mance indicators established for the Com­pany Tariffs for wastewater by the Government of the Russian Fedfor a relevant period eration’s subject in consideration of spe194 services, RUB/m3, 195 Item from 01.01.2011 cific features of regional development; No. Customer groups to 31.12.2011 For provision of services by the Company departments: 1. Municipal service providers actual price trend (the soundness of such Wastewater disposal 13.37 calculation should be confirmed by a relplanned depreciation of the existing and evant regulatory body). newly commissioned fixed assets; 2. Other customers Wastewater disposal 21.74 Actions envisaged by the production and payroll costs based on the planned investment programmes and associated costs number of employees. Note: The tariffs are shown without the value-added tax. SUE “Vodokanal of St. Petersburg” // Sustainability Report 2011 Connection Tariffs for the Company tariffs services in 2011 Tariffs for connection of newly constructed (rethe Rules of Public Contracts Execution and Tariffs for 2011 are established by the for cold water and wastewater disposal by constructed) real estate units to Vodokanal’s Performance”, as the product of declared deinstruction of the Tariff Committee No. 301-r the State Unitary Enterprise «Vodokanal of St. cold water supply and sewerage systems in mand (in m3/hour) and connection tariff. dated 30.11.2010 “On establishment of tariffs Petersburg» in 2011». 2009-2011 are established by the Instruction of the Tariff Committee No. 156-r dated tariffs 10.12.2008. Tariff policy // Connection tariffs Cold water tariffs of SUE “Vodokanal The charge for connection to Vodokanal netTariffs for connection of newly constructed (reof St. Petersburg” in 2011 works is calculated, in compliance with the constructed) real estate units to Vodokanal’s Decree of the Russian Government, Article cold water supply and sewerage systems in Cold water tariffs, 14, No. 360 dated 9.06.2007 “On Approving 2009-2011, RUB/m3/hour*. RUB/m3, Item from 01.01.2011 No. Customer groups to 31.12.2011 Connected capacity Connected capacity Connected capacity 1. Municipal service providers under 4.17-41.67 m3/hour over Cold potable water 13.37 Description 4.17 m3/hour (inclusively) 41.67 m3/hour 2. Other customers Cold water supply 714,000 711,600 709,200 Cold potable water 18.70 Cold utility water 3.38 Wastewater disposal 738,000 735,600 733,200 Note: The tariffs are shown without the value-added tax. Note: The tariffs are shown without the value-added tax. Financial Statements Vodokanal St. Petersburg maintains a rather standard range meaning that the Company Main financial indicators of 196 high level of solvency which is evidenced by has sufficient funds for current payments. 197 the fact that its profitability ratios are within the SUE “Vodokanal of St. Petersburg” Indicators 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Indicators, Mio. RUB 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Equity to Total 0.84 0.84 0.87 0.88 0.90 Turnover 14,850 16,720 18,413 20,060 22,797 Financial Leverage 0.16 0.16 0.13 0.14 0.14 Operating costs 12,649 14,123 15,484 17,694 19,853 Operating profit 2,200 2,597 2,929 2,366 2,944 Vodokanal is a company with a high capital uity to Total Assets Ratio is high which means SUE “Vodokanal of St. Petersburg” // Sustainability Report 2011 Net profit 56 24 72 379 404 coefficient. The share of fixed assets in the that the Company capital structure is stable. Profitability of core operations, % 17.4 18.4 18.9 13.4 14.8 balance sheet structure is over 90%. The EqDue to the growth of its main financial indicacompany development strategy. The indicator tors over the recent years Vodokanal can fi“profitability of core operations” is high comFinancial Statements // Main financial indicators nance different actions aimed to achieve the pared with that of other municipal utilities. service quality targets in line with the long-term Indicators 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Current ratio (standard: 1 to 2) 2.4 2.0 1.6 1.1 1.3 Quick ratio (0.8 or higher) 1.9 1.5 1.1 0.8 0.9 Cash ratio (0.2 or higher) 0.3 0.2 0.2 0.2 0.3 BALANCE SHEET ClarifiAs of 31 As of 31 As of 31 cations Item Code December 2011 December 2010 December 2009 Codes 1 2 3 4 5 6 OKUD 0710001 Date 31 12 2011 II. CURRENT ASSETS as of 31 December 2011 (day, month, year) 9 Inventories 1210 1 719 627 1 300 602 1 487 186 Organization SUE “Vodokanal of St. Petersburg” OKPO 03323809 Taxpayer’s Identification Number INN 7830000426 from Line 1210 Type of business OKVED 90.00.1, 41.00.1, 41.00.2, Raw materials, materials, etc 1211 769 228 618 691 540 962 85.11, 85.12, 85.13, 85.14 Form of incorporation / Type of ownership OKOPF/OKFS 42 13 198 Deferred expenses 1212 950 399 681 911 946 224 State Unitary Enterprise / RF subject owned 199 Unit of measurement: ‘000 RUB OKEI 384 Value-added tax on purchased valuables 1220 110 348 231 234 194 408 Location (adress) 42, Kavalergardskaya str., St. Petersburg, 191015 10 Accounts receivable 1230 5 905 484 4 599 280 4 009 106 from Line 1230 ClarifiAs of 31 As of 31 As of 31 cations Item Code December 2011 December 2010 December 2009 Accounts receivable due beyond 12 1 2 3 4 5 6 months after the reporting date 1231 809 426 459 697 594 881 ASSETS from Line 12301 Buyers and Clients 12311 76 436 95 954 152 390 I. NON-CURRENT ASSETS Accounts receivable where payments SUE “Vodokanal of St. Petersburg” // Sustainability Report 2011 are expected within 12 months after 3 Intangible assets 1110 207 592 156 093 69 138 the reporting date 1232 5 096 058 4 139 583 3 414 225 4 R&D results 1120 2 279 4 232 from Line12303 Buyers and Clients 12321 3 990 012 3 158 544 2 722 002 5 Fixed asset 1130 144 041 991 127 339 878 111 986 022 Financial investments (other than cash equivalents) 1240 200 from Line 1130: Monetary resources and cash buildings 1131 16 623 357 13 067 473 11 580 573 equivalents 1250 2 583 926 1 476 646 880 160 structures 1132 105 076 079 91 879 569 77 662 903 Other current assets 1260 18 30 28 Financial Statements // Balance Sheet machinery and equipment 1133 6 607 665 5 815 150 3 746 900 Section II, TOTAL 1200 10 319 403 7 607 792 6 571 088 6, 10 Construction in progress 1134 15 477 825 16 336 557 18 759 861 BALANCE 1600 155 176 602 135 627 574 119 195 712 Income-bearing investments in continue on page 200 inventories 1140 7 Financial investments 1150 118 110 63 870 188 740 Deferred tax assets 1160 381 877 361 766 338 256 other non-current assets 1170 105 350 93 943 42 468 from Line 1170 8 uncompleted investments in noncurrent assets 1171 96 557 84 000 37 083 Section I, TOTAL 1100 144 857 199 128 019 782 112 624 624 ClarifiAs of 31 As of 31 As of 31 ClarifiAs of 31 As of 31 As of 31 cations Item Code December 2011 December 2010 December 2009 cations Item Code December 2011 December 2010 December 2009 1 2 3 4 5 6 1 2 3 4 5 6 LIABILITIES SHORT-TERM LIABILITIES III. CAPITAL AND RESERVES 11 Borrowings 1510 832 633 1 710 427 953 178 Registered capital 1310 1 467 627 1 167 627 1 167 627 from Line 1510 Own shares bought out from Loans repayable within less than 12 shareholders 1320 months after the reporting date 1511 823 239 1 296 729 953 178 Revaluation of non-current assets 1340 88 869 998 85 758 094 77 830 040 200 201 Credits repayable within less than 12 months after the reporting date 1512 9 394 413 698 Additional capital (not revaluated) 1350 46 116 108 30 039 391 22 856 316 11 Accounts payable 1520 6 860 290 5 124 151 3 427 619 from Line 1350 from Line 1520 Special-purpose receipts 1351 6 500 138 4 493 212 4 160 472 suppliers and contractors 1521 3 153 426 3 732 727 2 253 424 Reserve fund 1360 80 356 60 167 41 218 payroll debt 1522 145 529 128 846 104 903 Undistributed profit (uncovered loss) 1370 1 143 271 812 834 551 834 debt to state extra-budgetary funds 1523 64 334 41 313 25 734 Section III, TOTAL 1300 137 677 360 117 838 113 102 447 035 tax arrears 1524 1 050 881 198 546 569 555 IV. LONG-TERM LIABILITIES SUE “Vodokanal of St. Petersburg” // Sustainability Report 2011 11 Borrowings 1410 7 440 358 7 814 639 8 400 003 other creditors 1525 2 446 120 1 022 719 474 003 from Line 1410 Deferred income 1530 1 774 136 1 864 252 1 976 322 Loans repayable beyond 12 months 12 Estimated liabilities 1540 493 265 429 608 354 636 after the reporting date 1411 5 446 358 5 813 223 8 400 003 Other liabilities 1550 Credits repayable beyond 12 months Section V, TOTAL 1500 9 960 324 9 128 438 6 711 755 after the reporting date 1412 1 994 000 2 001 416 BALANCE 1700 155 176 602 135 627 574 119 195 712 Deferred tax liabilities 1420 98 560 84 647 73 831 Financial Statements // Balance Sheet Estimated liabilities 1430 Other liabilities 1450 761 737 1 563 088 Section IV, TOTAL 1400 7 538 918 8 661 023 10 036 922 Director General F.V. Karmazinov (signature) (name) Chief Accountant G.A. Khachaturova (signature) (name) 22 March 2012 INCOME STATEMENT Clarifications Item Code 2011 2010 Codes OKUD 0710001 1 2 3 4 5 Date 31 12 2011 Current profit tax 2410 (783 238) (836 667) as of 2011 (day, month, year) incl. constant tax liabilities (assets) 2421 (539 570) (598 304) Organization SUE “Vodokanal of St. Petersburg” OKPO 03323809 Taxpayer’s Identification Number INN 7830000426 1 Change of deferred tax liabilities 2430 (13 766) (8 027) Type of business OKVED 90.00.1, 41.00.1, 41.00.2, 85.11, 85.12, 85.13, 85.14 202 1 Change of deferred tax assets 2450 21 187 16 803 203 Form of incorporation / Type of ownership OKOPF/OKFS 42 13 Other 2460 (1 634) 3 422 State Unitary Enterprise / RF subject owned Net profit (loss) 2400 403 784 316 712 Unit of measurement: ‘000 RUB OKEI 384 FOR Reference Result of non-current assets revaluation not 2510 3 111 904 7 946 697 included into the net profit (loss) of the period Result of other transactions not included into the net profit (loss) of the period 2520 Clarifications Item Code 2011 2010 Cumulative financial result of the period 2500 3 515 688 8 263 409 SUE “Vodokanal of St. Petersburg” // Sustainability Report 2011 1 2 3 4 5 Base profit (loss) per share 2900 1 Turnover 2110 22 797 415 20 059 571 Diluted earnings (loss) per share 2910 1 Cost of sales 2120 (19 853 247) (17 763 399) 1 Gross profit (loss) 2100 2 944 168 2 296 172 Commercial expenses 2210 Administrative expenses 2220 Director General F.V. Karmazinov Financial Statements // Income Statement Sales profit (loss) 2200 2 944 168 2 296 172 (signature) (name) 1 Income from participation in other organizations 2310 580 134 1 Interest receivable 2320 2 923 4 593 Chief Accountant G.A. Khachaturova (signature) (name) 1 Interest payable 2330 (494 824) (556 157) 1 Other income 2340 667 373 1 658 597 22 March 2012 1 Other expenses 2350 (1 938 985) (2 262 158) Before-tax profit (loss) 2300 1 181 235 1 141 181 Audit report Responsibility of the audited entity for financial statements on financial The management of SUE «Vodokanal of St. Petersburg» is responsible for preparation of reliable financial statements in compliance with the Russian accounting standards, and for the internal statements control system as required for the statements not to contain any material misrepresentations due to malpractice or errors. Responsibility of the auditor Our responsibility is to express our opinion on reliability of the financial statements on the basis of the audit made by us. We have made the audit in compliance with the federal auditing standards. These Audited entity standards require observation of the applicable code of ethics and the planning and performing of audit 204 in such a manner as to obtain sufficient confidence in the absence of any material misrepresentations 205 State Unitary Enterprise “Vodokanal of St. Petersburg”. in the financial statements. State registration: by the Decision of the Leningrad Council ExThe audit included the auditing procedures aimed to obtain the audit-based evidence confirming ecutive Committee No. 738 dated 05.09.1988 the figures in the financial statements and disclosure of information in the latter. The choice of auditing procedures is subject to our judgment which is based on our assessment of the risk of Address: 42 Kavalergardskaya str., St. Petersburg, 191015, material misrepresentations made due to malpractice or errors. In the process of assessing this risk, Russia. we have examined the internal control system which supports the preparation of reliable financial statements, with the aim to select relevant auditing procedures rather than express our opinion about Auditor the effectiveness of the internal control system. ZAO “MCD”. OGRN: 1027810263579 The audit also included assessment of the proper nature of the applicable accounting policy and SUE “Vodokanal of St. Petersburg” // Sustainability Report 2011 soundness of the estimated figures obtained by the management of the audited entity, as well as the Financial Statements // Audit report on financial statements Legal address: 2 Ploshch Truda, St. Petersburg, 190000. assessment of financial statements in general. Physical address: 20 Aptekarskaya nab., St. Petersburg, We believe that the audit-based evidence provides sufficient grounds for the expression of opinion on 197376 reliability of financial statements. ZAO “MCD” is a member of the self-regulatory organization Opinion Not-For-Profit Partnership “Institute of Professional Auditors”. ORN: 10202000038 In our opinion, the financial statements reflect truly, in all material respects, the financial standing of State Unitary Enterprise “Vodokanal of St. Petersburg” as of December 31, 2011, the results of its We have audited the attached financial statements of the State financial and economic activities and cash flow in 2011 in compliance with the Russian accounting Unitary Enterprise “Vodokanal of St. Petersburg”, namely: standards. Balance Sheet as of 31 December 2011; Deputy Director General of Audit. Head of the ZAO “MCD” Signature Date Income Statement for 2011; Audit Department A.V Gazaryan Statement of Changes in Equity for 2011; Qualification certificate for general audit No. 009228 dated 28.12.95 Cash Flow Statement for 2011; ORNZ 29502000977 Clarifications to the Balance Sheet and the Income Certificated auditor of ZAO “MCD” Statement. O. I. Svinyina Qualification certificate for general audit No. 02-000123 dated 22.02.2012 ORNZ 20102008173 Contact Information State Unitary Enterprise “Vodokanal 3. Kolpino—15, Saperniy per., Room 218, Burevestnik Sanatorium: of St. Petersburg”: 206 9.00 a.m.-6.00 p.m., 207 lunch break: 12.00 a.m.-13.00 p.m., Office in St. Petersburg: 42 Kavalergardskaya str., St. Petersburg 191015, Russia tel.: 438-47-55, 12/15 Stavropolskaya Street, Room 10 Tel.: +7 (812) 274-16-79, Fax +7 (812) 274-13-61 (Documents Tel. 8 (812) 271-20-71, 274-16-78; Division) 4. Petrodvorets—1, Suvorovtsev per., Room Tel./Fax: 8 (812) 438-44-85 e-mail: office@vodokanal.spb.ru 12, 9:00-18:00, lunch break: 12.00 a.m.Office in Luga: e-mail: personal@vodokanal.spb.ru—Personnel Department 13.00 p.m., tel.: 438-47-02, 16 Zapadnaya Street (for CVs) Tel. 8 (813-72) 4-33-03, 2-36-60 Museum complex “The Universe Website: www.vodokanal.spb.ru of Water”: Website: www.vodokanal-zagorod.ru Hot line: +7 (812) 305-09-09 56 Shpalernaya Street, (underground station “Medical Center” Branch SUE “Vodokanal of St. Petersburg” // Sustainability Report 2011 “Chernyshevskaya”) Treatment & Diagnostic Center CUSTOMER SERVICE CENTRE BRANCH: Tel.: 8 (812) 438-43-75, 275-43-25, 438-43-01 Open hours: Wednesday-Sunday Lit. Я, 42, Kavalergardskaya Street 1. Lit.A, 21 Gakkelevskaya str., St. Petersburg (Monday and Tuesday—closed). Tel. 8 (812) 438-44-20, 326-52-78 Open hours: 9.00 a.m.-6.00 p.m. The museum is open 10.00 a.m.-8.00 p.m. Open hours: Monday-Friday, 8.00 a.m.Tickets can be bought till 7.00 p.m. 8.00 p.m., 8 (812) 438-44-27, 326-52-32 – Reception room, Saturday and Sunday – closed. 8 (812) 438-44-11—Administrative office, inquiries about Website: www.vodokanal-museum.ru availability of documents, responsible persons, Treatment & Diagnostic Center (including 8 (812) 329-34-50—consultancy on project approval and Youth Environmental Center X-Ray Diagnostics Department): issuance of documents, of SUE “Vodokanal of Block 2, 103, Moskovskiy Prospect, St. 8 (812) 438-44-88—consultancy on obtaining approvals St. Petersburg”: Petersburg. for physical layouts and landscaping projects, Tel. 8 (812) 438-47-77, 326-52-78 8 (812) 438-44-13—consultancy on the drafting of specifi56 Shpalernaya Street, Open hours: seven days a week, 8.00 a.m.cations and connection conditions (South and South-West (underground station “Chernyshevskaya”) 10.00 p.m. areas), Tel. 8 (812) 438-43-96 8 (812) 438-44-33—consultancy on the drafting of specifiDental Clinic: Contact Information // cations and connection conditions (North area), E-mail: dec@vodokanal.spb.ru Lit. AK, 56, Shpalernaya Street. 8 (812) 438-44-12—consultancy on the drafting of connecTel. 326-53-19 tion conditions and contracts of connection (if required), Open hours: Monday-Friday, 9.00 a.m.9.00 p.m., 2. Pushkin—7, Filtrovskoye shosse, Room 103, 9.00 a.m.Saturday: 9.00 a.m.-3.00 p.m., 6.00 p.m., lunch break: 12.00 a.m.-13.00 p.m., Sunday—closed. tel.: 438-47-58, E-mail: medcenter@vodokanal.spb.ru Website : www.med-vdk.ru Design: Tvorcheskaya Masterskaya, 2012
