Novozymes UN Global Compact – Communication on Progress 2011 Novozymes | UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2011 Communication on progress Annually, Novozymes reports on progress in implementing the Global Compact’s 10 principles here in our Communication on Progress (COP). Novozymes has been a signatory to the UN Global Compact since 2001. In 2011 the UN launched the new platform for corporate sustainability leadership, Global Compact LEAD, and Novozymes has become a participant along with 53 other companies. We see this as an opportunity to further develop our sustainability capabilities, share our knowledge with others committed to sustainability, and keep driving the world towards sustainability. Our Communication on Progress (COP) addresses our efforts on specific leadership, implementation, and performance criteria, and has been designed to meet the requirements of the new Advanced level and Blueprint for Corporate Sustainability Leadership launched in 2010. The COP also feeds relevant information into The Novozymes Report. 2 Novozymes | UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2011 CEO commitment and leadership Statement of continued support 2011 by Steen Riisgaard. By the end of 2011, we passed a total of 7 billion people globally. A general wealth increase and rapidly developing economies in emerging markets together with slow economic recovery in the US and Europe will lead to shifts in global consumption patterns and in global power balances. While we are optimistic about the opportunities this offers and the positive effect these will have on people’s lives, we also foresee more pressure on resources, for example from increasing production, consumption, and transportation. Sustainable solutions here today “We need to use existing technologies to produce more with less, which is exactly what Novozymes’ solutions make possible. Biotechnology enables us to decouple growth from the use of natural resources, as our solutions save energy and raw materials, and reduce waste. By being innovative and delivering valuable solutions based on industrial insight, we can help our customers change the world while simultaneously growing our business profitably. Radical innovation for tomorrow Bioinnovation is demanding in itself, but as both a business and individuals we also need to challenge ourselves in other areas. In 2011, we looked at how we address social responsibility and announced how we had embarked on a food–energy venture in Mozambique where we will use biotechnology to help unlock the enormous potential of agriculture in the developing world. It is expected to be a scalable and replicable project that provides a return on our investment, and goes to show that social development is not necessarily dependent on government funding. The world needs radical innovation to change, and this is one way we can help build a better world while developing our business.” The Novozymes Report 2011, CEO statement UN LEAD responsibilities add credibility to Novozymes’ ambition Novozymes has been a signatory to the UN Global Compact since 2001 which has served as a valuable source of inspiration in our work on integrating and advancing sustainable development across regions and business functions. Accordingly, we have participated in several UN working groups and task forces such as the GC Working Group on Caring for Climate, and GC Task Force on Sustainable Energy for All, and we see these memberships contributing significantly to the advancement of our targets and development ambitions. 3 Novozymes | UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2011 This year, we joined Global Compact’s leadership platform, LEAD, which provides a unique opportunity for demonstrating global leadership and joining forces with other leading companies to realize our ambition to drive the world toward sustainability. For additional information and data on Novozymes’ sustainability performance and ambitions, please refer to The Novozymes Report 2011, and our GRI report or elsewhere at our website. Steen Riisgaard, President & CEO 4 Novozymes | UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2011 Contents Communication on Progress 2 CEO commitment and leadership 3 Governance structure and strategy development for corporate sustainability 6 Engaging and taking action 8 Human rights 15 Labor rights 18 Environment 23 Anti-corruption 28 Transparency and disclosure 31 Annex IScreen shots of hyperlinks in the Communication on Progress 39 5 Novozymes | UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2011 Governance structure and strategy development for corporate sustainability At Novozymes, sustainability is an integral part of the business approach and organization. To continuously develop our corporate sustainability strategy and targets, we have established the Sustainability Development Board (SDB). The board is cross-functional and represents vice presidents from all key functions such as R&D, Finance, Sales & Marketing, and BioBusiness Development & Acquisitions, thereby supporting integration of sustainability in all key functions and geographies. Accordingly, the SDB plays a significant role throughout the description of the UN GC Communication on Progress principles covering Human Rights, Labor, Environment, and Anti-Corruption. Based on functional business strategies and stakeholder insights the SDB sets ambitious shortand longterm targets for sustainable development across our value chain. These are reported on an annual basis in our integrated Annual Report. The SDB reports directly to Novozymes’ Executive Management who challenge and approve the sustainability strategy and targets. Sustainability performance is reported to the Board of Directors on a quarterly basis, and selected sustainability issues are presented to the Board twice a year. Financial, social, and environmental results are reported quarterly, and achievement of performance and development targets related to sustainability is integrated into incentive programs for management. To help facilitate the anchoring and continuous development of sustainability in the business, the SDB is assisted by the global Sustainability Development department (SD) which drives day-to-day operations. SD consists of specialists in the fields of business ethics, and social and environmental responsibility, including life cycle assessment. 6 Novozymes | UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2011 Sustainability trend-spotting and forecasting At Novozymes, sustainability trend-spotting makes a significant contribution to the annual strategy development and targetsetting process within the SDB. To provide qualified support for strategic decisionmaking and pursue an ambitious sustainability strategy, the SD coordinates the identification, analysis, and assessment of trends that have a) material business impact and b) relevant stakeholder concern to Novozymes. On this basis, the SDB makes both a qualitative and quantitative selection of the trends, assessing their relevance and importance to Novozymes’ business strategies. This trendspotting process is facilitated in close collaboration with each of our business areas and all our regional offices on an ongoing basis. It helps capture market opportunities, discover risks, spur innovation, and consequently maintain our role as a leader in sustainability. Trend-spotting has always been a significant part of Novozymes’ general approach to sustainability. Based on our past experiences, we decided to make the appropriate adjustments to our set up to enable us to work even more strategically and proactively with trendspotting going forward. As part of this process we have developed a materiality tool that allows the SDB to qualify its assessments of both risks and opportunities related to the selected sustainability trends. For more information on Novozymes’ risk management please refer to The Novozymes Report 2011. 7 Novozymes | UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2011 Engaging and taking action In this section we report on United Nations Global Compact Blueprint dimensions 2 and 3. At Novozymes, we consider it important to listen to our stakeholders, address their concerns, and learn from them in order to continue to be successful. We engage with a wide range of stakeholders ranging from institutions to individuals, in both the public and private sectors, with an array of different needs. After following a systematic procedure to identify important stakeholders globally and respond to their concerns, we initiate new projects specific to issues that need our attention. Stakeholders also contribute to identifying developing trends and issues, both broad and narrow sustainability-specific issues. We need to be aware of what drives development and to know what leadership and best practice look like for Novozymes. With that in mind, we map and engage with our key stakeholders who have the insights, competencies, and influence. More information can be found under stakeholder engagement on our website. 8 Novozymes | UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2011 Global engagements Being a global organization with activities across the world, Novozymes is focused on understanding and responding to trends and requirements from around the globe. We engage with key global stakeholders so that we can influence and develop more sustainable solutions to many of the world’s challenges. Some of these engagements are aligned with our strategy to contribute to broader UN goals and also drive sustainable development through collective action. Some of our notable engagements in 2011 are presented below. CleanStar Mozambique project In 2011, Novozymes increased our investment in a joint venture in Mozambique, CleanStar Mozambique. The first investments were made in late 2009, but the venture was only made public in September 2011 as a Novozymes commitment at the Clinton Global Initiative Annual Meeting. CleanStar Mozambique is helping smallholder farmers in the Sofala province implement an environmentally restorative agroforestry system that will produce a diverse mix of farm and forestry produce. The company purchases farmers’ surplus production, thereby significantly increasing their incomes. CleanStar Mozambique will process these agricultural products into a range of food products as well as an ethanol-based cooking fuel that will be sold primarily in urban markets, such as the capital Maputo. Alongside Novozymes and CleanStar Ventures, the business brings together a range of partners, most notably the engineering group ICM Inc., which is providing the ethanol plant, and Bank of America Merrill Lynch, which has entered into a carbon-financing agreement with CleanStar Mozambique. CleanStar Mozambique is a clear example of bio-based economy, where sustainable agriculture provides the necessary biomass to meet local needs for food, feed, fuel, and materials – while restoring the environment and driving rural development. Read more about Green growth in Africa on our website and in The Novozymes Report 2011. 9 Novozymes | UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2011 Contribution of CleanStar Mozambique to the Millennium Development Goals CleanStar Mozambique contributes to the achievement of the United Nations’ Millennium Development Goals in a number of ways. While some impacts are already coming to bear, others will only take effect in the years ahead. The following information provides an overview of how the venture addresses the MDGs. Goal 1:  Eradicate extreme poverty and hunger: By 2014, 3,000 rural smallholders will have transitioned from subsistence to commercial agriculture, significantly increasing their incomes. Also, the venture will create a few hundred direct jobs in various parts of the business, including processing, logistics, and retail. Goal 3:  Promote gender equality and empower women: The venture is designed to empower women by ensuring that as many income streams as possible going to the communities (including to the farmers) are handled by women. Goal 4:  Reduce child mortality: Indoor air pollution in cities is reduced due to the use of ethanol-based cooking fuel instead of charcoal, estimated to reach 20% of Maputo’s households by 2014. WHO estimates that worldwide over 2 million deaths occur each year – mostly among women and young children – due to indoor air pollution from using fuels such as charcoal for cooking. In addition, there will be a reduction in malnutrition in the rural areas as greater crop diversity will achieve a better nutrition profile among participating rural farmers. Goal 5:  Improve maternal health: The change from charcoal to ethanol for cooking will have a significant impact on household health, particularly for young mothers, who need to prepare more food more often, and are thus more exposed to hazardous fumes. Goal 7:  Ensure environmental sustainability: The project delivers multiple environmental benefits. By 2014 it is expected to achieve reforestation, reduce deforestation (4,000 ha protected per year from slash-and-burn practices), land restoration through agroforestry (6,000 ha), improved biodiversity and nutrient cycle, and reduced GHG emissions due to reduced use of charcoal. Goal 8:  Develop a global partnership for development: This venture directly brings together multinational corporations, international venture developers, local social enterprises, and smallholder farmers. Future focus areas of CleanStar Mozambique: Goal 2:  Achieve universal primary education: Through partnerships with various organizations (including UN organizations, government agencies, and NGOs) CleanStar Mozambique aims to support the provision of various goods and services – including education – to the communities involved in the supply base of the venture. Goal 6: 10 Novozymes | UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2011  Combat HIV/AIDS, malaria and other diseases: As with education services, CleanStar Mozambique plans to establish partnerships for the provision of health goods and services. Recognition CleanStar Mozambique has received recognition from various stakeholders, including global media. The coverage has helped show how Novozymes’ solutions can contribute to solving current global challenges in a sustainable manner. Hopefully this will provide inspiration to other companies and help create more ventures driven by sustainability interests. The list below contains a few highlights in connection with the general public’s exposure to CleanStar Mozambique.  Novozymes announced our investment in this project at the Clinton Global Initiative (CGI) Annual Meeting in September 2011 in New York City, which convenes global leaders to devise and implement innovative solutions to some of the world’s most pressing challenges  CleanStar Mozambique has generated more than 20 original news articles, most notably stories by CNN News, Bloomberg, Reuters, and GOOD Magazine  The project was featured or posted in more than 100 news outlets, ranging from television, wire services, and print to trade and online media (e.g., the Guardian, Bloomberg Businessweek, Xinhua News Agency)  CleanStar Mozambique was reported by key biofuel trade publications, including Biofuels Digest and Ethanol Producer Magazine  The project was covered by influential online media, including Treehugger and TriplePundit  An article was published by Environment and Energy Publishing in ClimateWire, an influential publication in the field of environmental and energy policy and markets  The project was featured in the “Best of 2011” in Inclusive Business, a blog by an Alliance between World Business Council for Sustainable Development and SNV Netherlands Development Organization Rio+20 Novozymes is actively engaged with a number of key stakeholders and activities in the development of the Rio+20 conference. Our main focus area for this conference concerns green economy, including new climate strategies on access to energy and energy efficiency, in the context of sustainable development and poverty eradication. Green economy is defined as one that results in improved human well-being and social equity, while significantly reducing environmental risks and ecological scarcities (UNEP, 2010). International conventions, policy-makers, and governments are increasingly recognizing the crucial role business plays in making the transition to a green economy by delivering viable products, processes, and technology. As a company based on bioinnovations and biosolutions, Novozymes deems it important to engage and play an important role in driving the world toward sustainable development by:  Participating in the development of key business and industry positions on green economy  Identifying opportunities, gaps, and challenges in the application of concepts of green economy  Participating in the development of a roadmap for policy-makers, etc. Some of our engagements in relation to the Rio+20 conference include the following: 11 Novozymes | UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2011  ICC Green Economy Task Force, and Energy and Environment Committee  UN Global Compact Task Force on Sustainable Energy for All  UN Global Compact Working Group on Caring for Climate  World Business Council for Sustainable Development’s Changing Pace  OECD-BIAC International Business and Green Economies Dialogues Elaborating on one such engagement, Novozymes is contributing to the Green Economies Dialogue project, launched by the United States Council Foundation (USCF) and the United States Council for International Business (USCIB), its partners and sponsors, with particular assistance from the Business and Industry Advisory Committee to the OECD and members of the USCIB Environment Committee. This project will include a series of dialogues that will engage the private sector and inform international policy discussions. COP17 Novozymes participated in the UN-sponsored COP17 climate change conference in Durban, South Africa, held toward the end of 2011. The theme for the conference, Saving Tomorrow Today, resonated well with the ethos behind our company idea Rethink Tomorrow. The conference presented a good opportunity to interact with key stakeholders and create greater awareness about the role of biotechnology in climate solutions and the importance of making climate/carbon financial instruments easily accessible and attractive to the private sector. The COP17 conference has helped establish Novozymes as a voice on the world stage for climateand environment-related issues ahead of the Rio+20 conference on sustainable development in 2012. Engaging with suppliers Since 2009 Novozymes has implemented a comprehensive Responsible Purchasing program with integrated evaluation of sustainability parameters in addition to quality and commercial performance. The system covers all aspects of management from approval of new suppliers to ongoing performance evaluation. There have been many initiatives in 2011. Among other things, Novozymes has: • Has increased coverage of suppliers; we finalized all the 168 open supplier action plans developed for noncompliant suppliers in 2010 through dialogue with suppliers on mitigating actions or, in a few cases, discontinuing further purchases from selected suppliers. Further, we continue to cover minimum 90% of spend in the supplier evaluation system • Has improved specification of supplier requirements by developing enhanced assessment guidance information, ready to be implemented at the beginning of 2012 along with further internal training of purchasers and auditors • Has completed an assessment of the raw materials with the greatest environmental impacts in order to identify areas for improvement in raw material sourcing • Is planning a Supplier Innovation Day in March 2012 to start involving suppliers more openly in innovation and finding joint sustainable solutions 12 Novozymes | UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2011 Our next steps will involve drawing up activity plans for substituting selected raw materials with sustainable alternatives, and engagement with specific suppliers to reduce environmental impact. As part of this project, there are plans to develop position papers on selected raw materials and our purchasing policies related to them. Furthermore, supplier performance management will remain on the agenda of the Sustainability Development Board as a strategic project for 2012, with allocated resources for the development and implementation of the project. For more information, please refer to our policy, position, and program on responsible purchasing. Regional engagements In 2011, Novozymes placed increased emphasis on our regional engagements with our subsidiaries in China, India, Latin America, and North America. Novozymes has also played an active role in engaging with the UN Global Compact at regional level. Some prominent examples are described below. Corporate citizenship In 2011, we launched a new corporate citizenship strategy, Citizymes, with regionally anchored projects. This new initiative concentrates our community efforts into broader programs that increase our reach and impact by drawing on our core competencies within science, while supporting the UN Millennium Development Goals for education and environmental sustainability. In 2011, we reached 9,800 learners worldwide through our efforts in all the regions. The ambition for 2012 is to have at least one major engagement flagship project in each region in order to create a bigger impact in our communities. More information can be found under Corporate citizenship on our website and in The Novozymes Report 2011. 13 Novozymes | UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2011 UN Global Compact Local Networks In 2011, Novozymes engaged with the UN Global Compact by becoming a member of the UN Global Compact Local Network in all regions where we have subsidiaries: China, India, Latin America, and North America. Representatives in these regions are engaging with their respective Local Networks through meetings and are in the process of leading working groups and forums involving other companies on specific initiatives. Our intention is to help drive sustainability regionally and demonstrate leadership, while helping other companies to enhance their performance. Mentor Program – Air Greenland As a Global Compact LEAD company, Novozymes has utilized the opportunity initiated and coordinated by the UNDP Nordic Office to participate in the UNDP Global Compact Mentor Program. Novozymes has been paired with Air Greenland. Being an experienced Global Compact company, Novozymes aims to utilize this platform to assist Air Greenland in its efforts to put Global Compact principles into practice and integrate sustainability in its strategy, management, and governance. Such collaboration should provide an opportunity of mutual sparring, and in the process we can gain inspiration for our own efforts. This program was initiated in 2011, and a plan for collaboration has been developed. Meetings at top management level and workshops involving sustainability teams from both sides are in the pipeline. Though this is a fairly new initiative for Novozymes, we plan to gain concrete experience during the first half of 2012. 14 Novozymes | UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2011 Human rights In this section we report on United Nations Global Compact principles 1 2 Approach Novozymes seeks to take appropriate measures to support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights and to make sure that we are not complicit in human rights abuses both from an internal and an external perspective. Our dedication to addressing and advancing human rights is embedded in our Vision, values, and company idea, Touch the World. In support of international human rights standards such as the United Nations Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the principles of the UN Global Compact, relevant principles are integrated systematically in Novozymes’ management practices and aligned with our minimum standards of human and labor rights to ensure that global and local initiatives are mutually supportive. Our minimum standards comprise: freedom of association, nondiscrimination, working hours, disciplinary measures, child labor, and forced labor. Subsequently, we have developed specific policies addressing people, social responsibility, and purchasing as well as positions on diversity and equal opportunities, human rights, REACH, and responsible purchasing. Based on the above practices, standards, policies, and positions, the relevant boards and departments systematically monitor, report, and follow up on human rights at Novozymes on an ongoing basis. 15 Novozymes | UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2011 In support of human rights management, development, and transparency, Novozymes reports on the following GRI indicators: HR 1, HR 2, HR 3, HR 4, HR 5, HR 6, HR 7, HR 9, EC 5, LA 6, LA 7, LA 8, LA 13, SO 5, and PR 1,providing a quantitative counterpart to human rights reporting. Today In 2011, Novozymes met all our social targets for employee satisfaction and development opportunities, employee turnover, rate of absence, and frequency of occupational accidents. Also, we launched a new corporate citizenship initiative and a new business approach that increases quality of life in sub-Saharan Africa, started preparing for new human rights guiding principles, and developed action plans for noncompliant suppliers. Pioneering business approach saves lives and reduces poverty in Mozambique Every day, hundreds of millions of women in the developing world are forced to cook for their families using charcoal-burning cookstoves. The noxious smoke in poorly ventilated rooms is equivalent to smoking two packs of cigarettes a day, creating a health threat worse than malaria. In 2011, Novozymes announced the coestablishment of a project that creates food, fuel, and rural jobs, protects the environment, and saves lives. The project contributes to the creation of jobs and incomes for a farming community in Mozambique and to a wide range of the UN Millennium Development Goals, including poverty eradication, health, and education. Novozymes’ implementation of the UN Guiding Principles on Human Rights In June 2011, the United Nations Human Rights Council endorsed the Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights proposed by UN Special Representative John Ruggie as the culmination of 5 years’ development work. The principles are seen as the beginning of a new era with a clearer division of responsibilities and requirements that aim to eliminate human rights abuses involving business. Novozymes welcomes clarity in this area, which has always been very complex. Inspired by the guiding principles, Novozymes adjusted our annual self-assessments of the minimum social standards of labor and human rights in 2011. Our social minimum standards are now aligned with the two human rights principles and four labor standards principles of the UN Global Compact. At the same time, organizational responsibility for human and labor rights at Novozymes was assigned to our regional directors for People & Organization. The outcome of the 2011 process did not lead to any corrective actions, but most regions have defined focus areas to be addressed in regional or corporate strategies and plans. One of the best practices referred to by John Ruggie is to involve a variety of stakeholders when developing corporate governance for human rights. For the past 2 years, Novozymes has been a member of the Danish Business Network for Human Rights, moderated by John Morrison, Executive Director of the Institute of Business and Human Rights in London. Together with our fellow members, we invite stakeholders, mainly NGOs and politicians, for sparring and knowledge sharing. 16 Novozymes | UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2011 Tomorrow Novozymes welcomes the UN Guiding Principles on Human Rights. While a new UN Working Group is aiming to build capacity for implementation of the Guiding Principles, Novozymes has for several years been following the progress made by John Ruggie, and we believe that we are well prepared to meet the requirements. As a strategic project for 2012 anchored in the Sustainability Development Board, Novozymes has allocated resources to identify how to further integrate the new guidelines in our own activities and in our collaboration with suppliers going forward. Together with four other companies in the Danish Business Network on Human Rights network, Novozymes is currently testing a practical tool developed by a German UN Global Compact group to identify areas for improvement and focus in the coming years. The main component of Novozymes’ due diligence process is the annual self-assessments of minimum standards that document the main issues in different regional contexts, to what extent we comply with our minimum standards internally, and any shortfalls, including potential adverse impacts. Perspectives for including human rights and labor practices in our due diligence process will be explored in further detail during 2012. Engaging with suppliers In continuation of efforts to optimize and expand the scope of Novozymes’ Responsible Purchasing program in 2011, we plan to further improve specification of supplier requirements by developing enhanced assessment guidance information for implementation in 2012. To involve suppliers more openly in innovation and in identifying joint sustainable solutions, we have planned a Supplier Innovation Day in March 2012. Furthermore, supplier performance management will remain on the agenda of the SDB as a strategic project for 2012, with allocated resources for the development and implementation of the project. We will also continue further training of purchasers and auditors. For more information, please refer to our policy and position on Responsible Purchasing. 17 Novozymes | UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2011 Labor rights In this section we report on United Nations Global Compact principles 3 6 Approach Novozymes seeks to take appropriate measures to support freedom of association and the right to collective bargaining as well as to uphold the elimination of discrimination and forced and child labor, both from an internal and an external perspective. Our dedication to addressing and advancing labor practices is embedded in our Vision, values, and company idea, Touch the World. In support of international labor rights standards such as the United Nations Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the International Labor Organization’s Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights to Work, and the principles of the UN Global Compact, relevant principles are integrated systematically in Novozymes’ management practices and aligned with our minimum standards of human and labor rights to ensure that global and local initiatives are mutually supportive. Our minimum standards comprise: freedom of association, nondiscrimination, working hours, wages and benefits, disciplinary measures, child labor, and forced labor. Subsequently, we have developed specific policies addressing people, social responsibility, and purchasing as well as positions on diversity and equal opportunities, human rights, REACH, and responsible purchasing. Based on the above practices, standards, policies, and positions, the relevant boards and departments systematically monitor, report, and follow up on labor rights at Novozymes on an ongoing basis. 18 Novozymes | UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2011 Internal collective bargaining committees Novozymes recognizes the right to organize and negotiate. This has led to various arrangements in countries where this right is not recognized in local legislation. One example is that Novozymes has set up an internal committee in China to negotiate our Chinese colleagues’ right to organize and bargain collectively. This provides a forum for employee representatives to discuss various issues with management. In support of labor rights management, development, and transparency, Novozymes reports on the following GRI indicators: LA 1, LA 2, LA 5, LA 13, HR 1, HR2, HR 3, HR 4, and HR 5, providing a quantitative counterpart to labor rights reporting. Today In 2011, Novozymes met all our social targets for employee satisfaction and development opportunities, employee turnover, rate of absence, and frequency of occupational accidents. Also, we launched a new corporate citizenship initiative Citizymes, started preparing for new guiding principles on labor rights, and developed action plans for all noncompliant suppliers. Novozymes’ implementation of the UN Guiding Principles on Human Rights In 2011 Novozymes decided to align our social minimum standards with the two human rights principles and four labor standards principles of the UN Global Compact. At the same time, organizational responsibility for human and labor rights was assigned to our regional directors for People & Organization, and a new selfassessment process was implemented, inspired by the UN's Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights. The outcome of the 2011 process did not lead to any corrective actions, but most regions have defined focus areas to be addressed in regional or corporate strategies and plans. Labor rights and supplier performance management Human and labor rights are incorporated in Novozymes’ screening of suppliers. In 2011, we increased coverage of suppliers and finalized all the 168 open supplier action plans developed for noncompliant suppliers in 2010. We also improved specification of supplier requirements to be implemented at the beginning of 2012. Additionally, we increased internal training of purchasers and auditors and improved the rating system. Employee satisfaction and development opportunities Employee satisfaction and employee perception of development opportunities are the most important indicators of our employees’ well-being. Every year, Novozymes’ employees have the opportunity to express their opinions in our annual People’s Opinion survey. Employees’ satisfaction and motivation measured by the survey scored 77 in 2011, exceeding both our target of 75 and our 2010 score of 76. When it came to opportunities for professional and personal development, we scored 74 in 2011, again exceeding both our target of 70 and our 2010 score of 73. The survey showed that our employees identify with the new set of values launched last year, and this seems to have had a positive impact on employee satisfaction. 19 Novozymes | UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2011 Diversity management Employment at Novozymes is based on merit and is offered without any distinction, exclusion, or preference. We are committed to developing a diverse workforce, fostering innovation and a diverse working culture, which are vital ingredients for a successful global company. In 2011, we focused on our recruitment and appointment processes aiming to increase the diversity in the pool of candidates and successors to senior managerial positions. We track our performance and the effect of our initiatives annually. The status and progress of Novozymes’ diversity initiatives are reviewed by the Board of Directors as part of the annual organizational performance process. Health and safety Another of Novozymes’ key focus areas is reducing the frequency of occupational accidents. Accordingly, Novozymes has implemented the behavior-based safety program “Dare to Care,” which is a line responsibility that started in 2010 and has continued into 2011 with positive effects. We await the results of future implementation at newly acquired sites, where the frequency of occupational accidents is currently higher and explains the slight increase in the frequency from 4.1 in 2010. The frequency of occupational accidents in 2011 was 4.3 accidents per million working hours, so the target of a frequency below 4.5 was met. 20 Novozymes | UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2011 Tomorrow Engaging with suppliers In continuation of efforts to optimize and expand the scope of Novozymes’ Responsible Purchasing program in 2011, we plan to further improve specification of supplier requirements by developing enhanced assessment guidance information for implementation in 2012. To involve suppliers more openly in innovation and in identifying joint sustainable solutions, we have planned a Supplier Innovation Day in March 2012. Furthermore, supplier performance management will remain on the agenda of the SDB as a strategic project for 2012, with allocated resources for the development and implementation of the project. We will also continue further training of purchasers and auditors. For more information, please refer to our policy and position on Responsible Purchasing. Novozymes welcomes the UN Guiding Principles on Human Rights Novozymes has for several years been following the progress made by John Ruggie on implementing the Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights, and we believe that we are well prepared to meet the requirements. As a strategic project for 2012 anchored in the Sustainability Development Board, Novozymes has allocated resources to identify how to further integrate the new guidelines in our own activities and in our collaboration with suppliers going forward. 21 Novozymes | UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2011 Together with four other companies in the Danish Business Network on Human Rights network, Novozymes is currently testing a practical tool developed by a German UN Global Compact group to identify areas for improvement and focus in the coming years. The main component of Novozymes’ due diligence process is the annual self-assessments of minimum standards that document the main issues in different regional contexts, to what extent we comply with our minimum standards internally, and any shortfalls, including potential adverse impacts. Perspectives for including human rights and labor practices in our due diligence process will be explored in further detail during 2012. 22 Novozymes | UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2011 Environment In this section we report on United Nations Global Compact principles 7-9. Approach Novozymes seeks to take appropriate measures to support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges, promote greater environmental responsibility and encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Our dedication to addressing and advancing environmental issues is embedded in our Vision, values, and company idea, Touch the World. In support of international environmental conventions such as the United Nations Convention on Biological Diversity and the principles of the UN Global Compact, relevant principles are integrated systematically in Novozymes’ management practices to ensure that global and local initiatives are mutually supportive. In this connection, we have developed specific policies addressing environment and bioethics. In addition, Novozymes has also developed position papers on a variety of environmental issues related to animal testing, antibiotic resistance genes in GMMs, biodiversity, biofuels, detergent enzymes, enzymes produced by GMMs, gene technology, global warming, labeling of enzymes, REACH, and responsible purchasing. Based on the above practices, standards, policies, and positions, the relevant boards and departments systematically monitor, report, and follow up on environmental issues at Novozymes on an ongoing basis. 23 Novozymes | UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2011 In support of environmental management, development, and transparency, Novozymes reports on the following GRI indicators, EC 2, EN 1, EN 3–8, EN 11–26, EN 28, EN 29, EN 32, SO 5, PR 3, and PR 4, providing a quantitative counterpart to the environmental dimension. Today In 2011, Novozymes met the environmental targets for energy efficiency, CO2 efficiency and impacting climate change by enabling our customers to reduce their CO2 emissions, while the result for water efficiency ended up slightly below the target for 2011. One of our main initiatives in 2011 was to develop and implement a global environmental management system for our BioBusiness activities. We have also updated our environmental and bioethics and biodiversity standards, which are effective from 2012. The biodiversity standard, outlining the requirements of the United Nations Convention on Biological Diversity, has laid focus on the utilization of genetically modified resources and its implications for our business and strategy. Novozymes has also been able to decouple emissions from growth through continuous optimization and investment in energy-efficient equipment. Our target of meeting the energy needs of the entire operations in Denmark through wind energy by 2012 was met 1 year earlier, as part of an initiative to increase the use of environmentally friendly technology. Through our corporate citizenship activities, we engaged with local communities in all our regions and were able to create awareness of environmental sustainability. Our initiative in Mozambique, CleanStar Mozambique, and participation in the COP17 conference have helped create awareness and disseminate climate-friendly technology. Integration of environmental management system in BioBusiness After undertaking a complete gap analysis of the environmental management setup within BioBusiness activities, we were able to implement the ISO 14001 environmental management system in this young and growing business segment in 2011. This ensures a standard global working procedure to evaluate and update environmental impacts. In addition, it will also provide the necessary framework to set targets and action plans to handle these impacts. As part of efforts to introduce ISO 14001, training programs have been conducted for regional environmental management representatives in all our BioBusiness production facilities around the world. The introduction of ISO 14001 into BioBusiness will complement the environmental management system already working successfully in Enzyme Business. Minimizing our footprint In anticipation of future constraints and challenges related to the environment, we adopt a precautionary approach and continuously work toward improving our own environmental efficiency performance. As part of our drive to reduce our environmental impacts, we set targets specifically related to efficiency of water and energy consumption and CO2 emissions. The graph below illustrates our efficiency in 2011, taking 2005 as our baseline. 24 Novozymes | UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2011 Reducing environmental impacts together with our customers Reducing carbon emissions makes good business sense and is a high priority for Novozymes. Our overall carbon footprint comprises around 250,000 tons of CO2 emissions per year from our raw materials and 550,000 tons from our own production, including energy consumption. By way of comparison, our enzyme applications reduced our customers’ CO2 emissions by an estimated 45 million tons in 2011. At Novozymes, we develop product life cycle assessments (LCAs) based on the ISO 14040 methodology and analyze the impact on the environment at every stage of a product’s life cycle, and we find that the use of enzyme technology generally provides environmental benefits. 25 Novozymes | UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2011 Novozymes joins Carbon Disclosure Project elite Novozymes featured in the Carbon Disclosure Project’s annual Nordic Carbon Disclosure Leadership Index for the second time in 2011, climbing strongly to 10th place in a comprehensive field of more than 260 listed companies. The CDP assesses the companies’ climate change disclosures, with high scores indicating good internal data management and sound understanding of climate-related risks and opportunities affecting the company. More information about this can be found in the CDP Nordic 260 Report 2011. Transport CO2 efficiency Novozymes purchases transport services from providers in different countries around the world. Calculating the environmental impact of transport is extremely complex and requires close collaboration with the transport suppliers. Novozymes discloses data on CO2 emissions derived from transport broken down by 26 Novozymes | UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2011 land, sea, and air. In 2011 we have looked more systematically into the environmental impacts from transportation. Transport data for 2011 include export of products from production sites to the first delivery place where Novozymes pays for the freight, covering more than 90% of Novozymes’ sales, as well as transport between production sites. More information about this can be found under Transport and the environment on our website and in The Novozymes Report 2011. Tomorrow Development of new guidelines for biomass distribution and change control in 2012 In our effort to promote greater environmental responsibility, we will focus on the continuation of a biomass distribution project started in 2011. Through this, we will develop and implement guidelines that will cover aspects related to biomass that contains GMOs, and procedures and requirements from inactivation to disposal phase, and further standardize compliance across all our facilities. The coming year will also see the development of environmental guidelines related to change control at a production facility, so as to be able to take into consideration and map environmental impacts related to various changes that occur at the production facility. Focus on supplier chain improvements After completion of the assessment of the raw materials with the greatest environmental impact in 2011, we are in the process of drawing up plans to improve raw material sourcing and substitute selected raw materials with sustainable alternatives. Apart from this, we are also establishing further engagements with suppliers so as to develop initiatives to reduce environmental impact. More information about this can be found under Engaging with suppliers. As a strategic project for 2012 anchored in the Sustainability Development Board, Novozymes has allocated resources for the development and implementation of this project going forward. As another strategic project anchored in the Sustainability Development Board, Novozymes will also continue to further explore aspects related to Green Economy, developing trends, and the role of Novozymes in this discourse. More information regarding our activities related to this can be found at Rio+20 under Engaging and taking action. 27 Novozymes | UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2011 Anti-corruption In this section we report on United Nations Global Compact principle 10. Approach Novozymes seeks appropriate measures to work against all forms of corruption, including extortion and bribery. Novozymes' dedication to addressing and advancing anticorruption and business integrity aspects is embedded in our Vision, values, and company idea, Touch the World. In support of international business integrity conventions such as the United Nations Convention Against Corruption and standards such as the principles of the United Nations Global Compact, relevant principles are integrated systematically in Novozymes’ management practices to ensure that global and local initiatives are mutually supportive. In this connection, Novozymes has developed specific policies on issues covering financial, legal, and tax issues as well as positions on business integrity, responsible purchasing, business ethics, and others. Based on the above practices, standards, policies, and positions, the relevant boards and departments systematically monitor, report, and follow up on anticorruption and bribery at Novozymes on an ongoing basis. 28 Novozymes | UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2011 In support of anticorruption management, development, and transparency, Novozymes reports on the following GRI indicators: SO 2, SO 3, SO 4, SO 5, SO 6, SO 7, and SO 8, providing a quantitative counterpart to anticorruption and business integrity reporting. Today In 2011, we updated our booklet on business integrity to reflect various intergovernmental initiatives. The updated booklet was used in an internal awareness-raising campaign with a link to our new set of values. Training within the organization regarding Novozymes’ standards on business integrity also continued by means of an e-learning program, and we reached 71% coverage. Furthermore, as of 2011 we have successfully complied with all the basic reporting elements and several of the desired reporting elements that are part of the Guidance on the 10th Principle against corruption, developed by the UN Global Compact. Development of Business Integrity Standards In our effort to stay in touch with both internal risks and external trends, Novozymes continuously strives to improve our standards and guidelines. As a result, we have updated our booklet on business integrity, Bribery – No thanks!, to reflect new intergovernmental initiatives such as the United Nations Convention against Corruption, OECD Conventions and Recommendations, EU conventions against corruption, and national instruments, including the US Sarbanes–Oxley Act and the UK Bribery Act. Successful reporting on 10th principle against corruption Being a Global Compact participant and a LEAD company, Novozymes aims for complying with all the seven basic reporting elements and several of the desired reporting elements in the Guidance on the 10th principle against corruption, developed by the UN Global Compact and Transparency International. The reporting guidance provides a good structure for documenting our commitment, policies, implementation, and monitoring activities related to anticorruption. Reporting of these elements is integrated in our governance and management structure as illustrated above. An index of compliance with the basic reporting elements is provided in Transparency and disclosure. 29 Novozymes | UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2011 Tomorrow Focus on distribution strategy In 2012, the Committee on Business Integrity will focus on development of a systematic approach to follow up on distributors and agents, so as to extend the principles related to anticorruption to the value chain in which we operate. This strategy will be used to develop a clear perspective on the principles that distributors need to adhere to. Increased training and further coverage of employees are also in the pipeline for 2012. Increased focus on desired reporting elements in the Guidance on the 10th principle against corruption Novozymes intends to place additional focus on improving our documentation of and reporting on the additional desired reporting elements provided by the Guidance on the 10th principle against corruption. We perceive this as an opportunity to learn from best practices related to business integrity, and can gather inspiration to improve our efforts in implementation and communication of aspects related to anticorruption such as:  Commitment and policies: leadership commitment, commitment to international conventions, risk assessment, and management  Implementation: actions to encourage business partners, responsibility, accountability, and auditing  Monitoring: participation in anticorruption initiatives, dealing with incidents, external assurance, etc. With a focus on distributors and agents, we intend to encourage those along the value chain to commit to and implement stronger anticorruption measures, which is linked to the desired reporting element D6. We will also focus on element D8, with increased involvement of the human resources team through training programs. 30 Novozymes | UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2011 Transparency and disclosure This section reports on recognition of our sustainability efforts, provides a third-party review of our Communication on Progress, links to our previous CoPs and an index of our reporting. As a global company, Novozymes has implemented and wants to continue to implement values such as responsibility, accountability, openness, and honesty in the way we do business. We share and provide sustainability information through a variety of platforms. Communication efforts such as these give credibility to our work and help reach a large audience. Furthermore, these efforts also gain recognition of the professionalism with which we approach our sustainability goals. In addition to recognition from various indexes, in 2011 we have also had our CoP reviewed by third parties who are experts within the field of sustainability, thus keeping in touch with best practices. Recognition of Novozymes’ sustainability performance As a result of our vast number of efforts toward driving sustainability and communicating the same, we have been included in a host of indexes that benchmark our performance, and have received several recognitions, giving credibility to our work. We hope that this might also serve as inspiration to other companies and drive interest in sustainability. Some of these recognitions are presented below. Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Novozymes supports the Global Reporting Initiative's framework for sustainability reporting. Accordingly, GRI reporting has been an integrated part of Novozymes' reporting platform since 2002, and Novozymes adopted the G3 guidelines in 2007. Based on a thorough analysis of the GRI guidance and requirements, Novozymes and the Global Reporting Initiative declare Application Level A for Novozymes' 2010 GRI reporting. Our GRI reporting for 2011 is available in The Novozymes Report 2011. Dow Jones Sustainability Indexes and SAM Gold Class For the 10th time, Novozymes is the industry leader of the biotechnology sector in the Dow Jones World and STOXX Sustainability Indexes. In addition, Novozymes achieved the SAM Gold Class rating in 2011 and 2010. Read more about this on our website and visit the Dow Jones Sustainability Indexes website. Carbon Disclosure Project Novozymes achieved a disclosure score of 85 out of 100 in the 2011 Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP), up from 77 in 2010, moving up strongly to 10th place in the Carbon Disclosure Leadership Index, a comprehensive field of more than 260 listed companies. 31 Novozymes | UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2011 FTSE4Good Index Series Novozymes continues to be included in the FTSE4Good Global and Europe indexes. FTSE4Good measures corporate responsibility performance based on globally recognized standards and facilitates investments in companies that meet the criteria laid down in the standards. Ethibel EXCELLENCE Investment Register In 2011, Novozymes was once again included in the Ethibel EXCELLENCE Investment Register, which is one of the benchmarking indexes for Socially Responsible Investment (SRI) products used by a growing number of European banks, fund managers, and institutional investors. The Global 100 Most Sustainable Corporations in the World For the 5th year in a row, Novozymes has been ranked among the Global 100 Most Sustainable Corporations in the World by Corporate Knights and Innovest Strategic Value Advisors Inc. (RiskMetrics Group), an index that aggregates information about companies that demonstrate exceptional capacity to address their sector-specific environmental, social, and governance risks and opportunities. Third-party opinion In 2011, Novozymes' CoP has been reviewed by external stakeholders. The review by Mr. Viraf Mehta, Advisor, Centre for Responsible Business at Deutsche Gesellschaft für Internationale Zusammenarbeit (GIZ) is published below followed by a response from Novozymes: Review of the Report “I have read Novozymes‟ UN Global Compact Communication on Progress (COP) report including The Novozymes Report 2011. The report has been prepared in accordance with the requirements arising from Novozymes‟ participation in the UNGC‟s LEAD initiative, and from the recently launched Blueprint for Corporate Sustainability Leadership. Overall, I believe that the COP is an excellent start on reporting on the UNGC Principles at this advanced level that adequately covers the defined dimensions. The COP deserves commendation for its excellent portrayal of a company that continues to provide a leadership model with sustainability at the core reflected in a benchmark of transparence and disclosure. I find that Novozymes is in a stage of transition regarding the enhanced focus on non-workplace social impacts of its business, in comparison with its acknowledged leadership efforts regarding environmental impacts, governance and ethics. Novozymes has indeed stepped up its focus on labor and human rights, in particular through the inspiration gained from Professor John Ruggie‟s UN Guiding Principles. However, there 32 Novozymes | UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2011 remains scope to further improve this through the adoption of additional performance indicators and a human rights due-diligence across its operations and by applying rights based approach, for example, with existing initiatives supporting the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs). Areas of excellence include: 1) Accurate account of the material sustainability challenges and trends pertaining to Novozymes‟ core business and priorities, performance targets and action plans, also in the context of The Novozymes Report 2011 2) Evident extent to which the governance and leadership of the company provides ownership, guidance and oversight to sustainability issues 3) Informative and useful depiction of key performance indicators in comparison with previous years 4) Action taken to support other sustainability related initiatives within the UN, including involvement with local Global Compact Networks. Suggested areas of improvement include: 1) Introduction of country specific information for important developing country markets; 2) Information on the extent to which sustainability issues are taken into consideration in decisions related to mergers, acquisitions and other business investments 3) Further information on the steps taken to enhance the sustainability performance of key suppliers 4) More detailed account of how „gender‟ issues are integrated into the company‟s „sphere of influence‟, using additional indicators or guidelines, e.g. the GRI‟s gender supplement 5) An account of how Novozymes has encouraged the participation of, access to, and feedback on its sustainability report 6) An account of collaborative sustainability initiatives with other companies in the Bio/enzyme sector and Novozymes‟ position on „responsible/ethical lobbying‟, particularly in the public policy space in developing countries, including in the regulatory space.” About Viraf Mehta Advisor, Centre for Responsible Business at GIZ Mr. Viraf Mehta is a social anthropologist, currently advisor to the Centre for Responsible Business at Deutsche Gesellschaft für Internationale Zusammenarbeit (GIZ), and country coordinator of the Responsible and Accountable Garment Sector (RAGS). Mr. Mehta is a member of several initiatives in the field of corporate responsibility, with a special focus on the human rights and business interface, including the UN Global Compact. He has been involved in corporate social responsibility initiatives since the mid-80s at the Tata Group (1986-2000), CEO of the NGO called Partners for Change (2002-2010), regional advisor for South Asia to the Institute for Human Rights and Business (2008-2010) among others. Novozymes’ response “Novozymes appreciates the feedback provided by Mr. Mehta and the conclusion that our COP meets the advanced reporting requirements of UNGC LEAD and the blueprint in Mr. Mehta‟s view. We are committed to further improving our understanding, handling and reporting of human rights impacts, which among others 33 Novozymes | UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2011 will be addressed in a project in 2012. The project will also look into integration of human rights considerations in our screening and acquisition process, and we will use all of Mr. Mehta‟s valuable inputs to scope and inspire this project. From 2012, we expect to report on basis of the GRI G4 guidelines and may use this as an opportunity to expand our reporting on gender diversity, stakeholder feedback process for reporting and industry collaboration and lobbying.” Communication on Progress (CoP) archive An archive of our previous Communication on Progress (CoP) reports can be found on the UN Global Compact website, where our continuous development and progress in reporting is tracked. Index of Blueprint and Anti-Corruption Reporting Guidance As a Global Compact LEAD company from 2011, Novozymes commits to reporting along the lines of the Blueprint guidelines. Below is an index of our fulfillment of the Action Items under dimensions 2 and 3 of the Blueprint. Dimension 1 and the cross-cutting Component of the Blueprint have been indexed through fulfillment of the Global Compact Advanced level reporting. In addition to this, we have also indexed our efforts to comply with the basic reporting elements under the Anti-Corruption Reporting Guidance issued by the UN Global Compact. Index of action items reported under Blueprint dimension 2: Dimension 2: Taking action in support of broader UN goals and issues Component: Core Business Contributions to UN Goals and Issues Action Item Reporting Location in the Status report/website 1. Align core business strategy Engaging and taking action: with one or more relevant UN CleanStar Mozambique, Rio+20 goals / issues. 2. Develop relevant products and Engaging and taking services or design business models action:CleanStar Mozambique, that contribute to UN goals /issues. COP17, Novozymes solutions 3. Adopt and modify operating Engaging and taking action: procedures to maximize CleanStar Mozambique, Rio+20, contribution to UN goals / issues. COP17, Corporate citizenship Component: Strategic Social Investments and Philanthropy Action Item Reporting Location in the Status report/website 4. Pursue social investments and Engaging and taking action: philanthropic contributions that tie Corporate citizenship, CleanStar in with the core competences or Mozambique operating context of the company as an integrated part of its sustainability strategy. 5. Coordinate efforts with other Engaging and taking action: organizations and initiatives to (overall), UN Global Compact amplify – and not negate or Local Networks, Mentor Program unnecessarily duplicate – the – Air Greenland, etc. efforts of other contributors. 34 Novozymes | UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2011 6. Take responsibility for the Anti-Corruption: Approach and intentional and unintentional Today sections effects of funding and have due regard for local customs, traditions, religions, and priorities of pertinent individuals and groups. Component: Advocacy and Public Policy Engagement Action Item Reporting Location in the Status report/website 7. Publicly advocate the CEO commitment and leadership, importance of action in relation to Engaging and taking one or more UN goals / issues. action: CleanStar Mozambique, Rio+20, COP17 8. Commit company leaders to Engaging and taking action: participate in key summits, CleanStar Mozambique, Rio+20, conferences, and other important COP17 public policy interactions in relation to one or more UN goals / issues. Component: Partnerships and Collective Action Action Item Reporting Location in the Status report/website 9. Develop and implement Engaging and taking action: partnership projects with public or CleanStar Mozambique, private organizations (UN entities, Corporate Citizenship Mentor government, NGOs, or other Program – Air Greenland, etc. groups) on core business, social investments and/or advocacy. 10. Join industry peers, UN Engaging and taking action: entities and/or other stakeholders CleanStar Mozambique, Rio+20, in initiatives that contribute to COP17, Mentor Program – Air solving common challenges and Greenland, etc. dilemmas at the global and/or local levels with an emphasis on initiatives that extend the company’s positive impact on its value chain. Index of action items reported under Blueprint dimension 3: Dimension 3: Engaging with the UN Global Compact Component : Local Networks and Subsidiary Engagement Action Item Reporting Location in the Status report/website 1. Contribute to the building and Engaging and taking action: UN operating of at least one UN Global Global Compact Local Networks, Compact Local Network and help Mentor Program – Air Greenland elevate performance of other companies through training, mentoring, COP peer review, etc. 2. Encourage subsidiaries to Engaging and taking action: UN engage with UN Global Compact Global Compact Local Networks Local Networks and to participate actively in events and activities. 3. Publish sustainability The Novozymes Report 2011: information related to each Financial, Environmental, and individual subsidiary separately or Social data reference it explicitly in the Communication on Progress of Corporate Headquarters. 35 Novozymes | UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2011 Component: Global and Local Working Groups Action Item Reporting Location in the Status report/website 4. Participate in relevant global or CEO commitment and local working groups and share leadership, Engaging and taking experiences, networks, tools and action: Rio+20, UN Global good practices with other UN Compact Local Networks, Mentor Global Compact participants. Program – Air Greenland 5. Take active part in defining Engaging and taking action: scope and objectives of new Rio+20, UN Global Compact working groups when relevant. Local Networks 36 Novozymes | UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2011 Component: Issue-Based and Sector Initiatives Action Item Reporting Location in the Status report/website 6. Join and help advance one or CEO commitment and more existing UN Global Compact leadership, Engaging and taking initiatives, e.g. Caring for Climate, action: Rio+20, Human Rights: CEO Water Mandate, Women’s Tomorrow section Empowerment Principles, and Global Business Initiative on Human Rights. 7. Spearhead need-driven Engaging and taking action: development of new issue-based or Rio+20, COP17 sector initiatives within the UN Global Compact and the wider United Nations. Component: Promotion and Support of the UN Global Compact Action Item Reporting Location in the Status report/website 8. Advocate the UN Global Engaging and taking action: Compact to business partners, Engaging with suppliers, Mentor peers and the general public. Program – Air Greenland, AntiCorruption: Tomorrow etc. 9. Encourage suppliers and other Engaging and taking action: business partners to join the UN Engaging with suppliers, Mentor Global Compact, and take on Program – Air Greenland, etc. mentoring role on issues related to the initiative. 10. Participate in activities to Engaging and taking action: UN further develop and strengthen the Global Compact Local Networks, UN Global Compact. Mentor Program – Air Greenland Index of Basic Reporting Elements reported under the Anti-Corruption Reporting Guidance Commitment and Policy Element Basic Reporting Reporting Location in the Code Element Status report/website B1 Publicly stated Anticorruption: Approach commitment to work (vision, values, etc.) against corruption in all its forms, including bribery and extortion B2 Commitment to be in Anticorruption: Approach compliance with all (positions and policies) relevant laws, including anti-corruption laws Implementation Element Basic Reporting Reporting Location in the Code Element Status report/website B3 Translation of the antiAnticorruption: details of corruption commitment governance and into actions management structure, Today – Development of Business Integrity Standards 37 Novozymes | UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2011 B4 Support by the Anticorruption: Today – organization’s leadership Development of Business for anti-corruption Integrity Standards (Bribery – No thanks! booklet) B5 Communication and Anticorruption: details of training on the antigovernance and corruption commitment management structure for all employees (training, concerns, etc.) B6 Internal checks and Anticorruption: details of balances to ensure governance and consistency with management structure the anti-corruption (auditing) commitment Monitoring Element Basic Reporting Reporting Location in the Code Element Status report/website B7 Monitoring and Anticorruption: details of improvement processes governance and management structure (CBI), Today, Tomorrow 38 Novozymes | UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2011 Annex I – Screen shots of hyperlinks at the Communication on Progress 2011 (excluding links to The Novozymes Report 2011 and external hyperlinks) 1. Animal testing 39 Novozymes | UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2011 2. Antibiotic resistance genes in genetically modified microorganisms 40 Novozymes | UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2011 3. Biofuels 41 Novozymes | UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2011 4. Business ethics 42 Novozymes | UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2011 5. Business integrity 43 Novozymes | UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2011 6. Corporate citizenship 44 Novozymes | UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2011 7. Detergent enzymes 45 Novozymes | UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2011 8. Diversity and equal opportunities 46 Novozymes | UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2011 9. Environmental and bioethics policy 47 Novozymes | UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2011 10. Enzymes produced by genetically modified microorganisms (1/3) 48 Novozymes | UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2011 Enzymes produced by genetically modified microorganisms (2/3) 49 Novozymes | UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2011 Enzymes produced by genetically modified microorganisms (3/3) 50 Novozymes | UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2011 11. Financial and legal policy 51 Novozymes | UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2011 12. Gene technology 52 Novozymes | UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2011 13. Global warming 53 Novozymes | UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2011 14. Green growth in Africa 54 Novozymes | UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2011 15. Green growth in Africa Infographic 55 Novozymes | UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2011 16. Green growth in Africa -Video 56 Novozymes | UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2011 17. Human rights and labor standards 57 Novozymes | UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2011 18. Labeling of enzymes 58 Novozymes | UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2011 19. Life cycle assessment 59 Novozymes | UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2011 20. Novozymes receives gold ranking in SAM sustainability yearbook 60 Novozymes | UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2011 21. Novozymes solutions 61 Novozymes | UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2011 22. People policy 62 Novozymes | UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2011 23. Purchasing policy 63 Novozymes | UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2011 24. REACH (Registration, Evaluation, Authorization, and Restriction of Chemicals) 64 Novozymes | UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2011 25. Responsible purchasing 65 Novozymes | UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2011 26. Social responsibility policy 66 Novozymes | UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2011 27. Stakeholder engagement 67 Novozymes | UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2011 28. Supplier program 68 Novozymes | UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2011 29. Sustainability Development Board 69 Novozymes | UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2011 30. Sustainability investment facts – Human rights and labor standards 70 Novozymes | UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2011 31. Sustainability investment facts – Occupational health and safety 71 Novozymes | UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2011 32. Tax policy 72 Novozymes | UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2011 33. Touch the world 73 Novozymes | UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2011 34. Transport and the environment 74 Novozymes | UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2011 35. Vision and values 75
