Report Overview This is the sixth Sustainability Report issued by LG Electronics. It is our sincere intention to openly share our sustainability efforts and performance in 2011 with all stakeholders and initiate meaningful communication on this important issue. Special Features of This Report Key Progress and Performance · To clearly illustrate LG Electronics’ sustainability performance to our stakeholders, we have featured “Key Progress and Performance” in this report. Based on a Materiality Analysis, we have identified key sustainability management issues and illustrated opportunities and risk factors, mid to long term goals and progress, and future goals and direction related to those issues. We will also continue to utilize those issues as the key indicators for our sustainability management performance. Special Issue · LG Electronics, which was named as one of the World's 100 Most Innovative Companies in 2011 by a world-leading business intelligence provider Thomson and Reuters, is expanding its capabilities into water solutions and establishing it as a future growth engine, as we continue our efforts into R&D as well. “Special Issue” illustrates how LG Electronics is preparing itself for the future and striving for sustainable growth. Additionally, it highlights the progress we have made to date. Reporting Principles This report was prepared in accordance with the G3.1 guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) and the Accountability Principles Standard (AA1000APS). Based on a Materiality Analysis, priority was given to issues and information relevant to both LG Electronics and our stakeholders in preparing this report. Information about the key issues are organized and presented in a consistent format comprised of three parts – “Our Approach”, “Our Performance” and “Future Direction”, to provide greater clarity and structure. Reporting Preparation and Process In preparation of this report, we conducted a preliminary survey of internal and external stakeholders to analyze materiality and improve the report structure. The result was reported to management and briefed to the CSR Council comprised of staff members from relevant departments. Articles prepared by each department were finalized after a review by management and a third party assurer. Reporting Period and Scope This report was prepared based on data for the period from January 1 to December 31, 2011. For quantitative measures of performance, some data for the first half of 2012 was included as well. This covers all LGE business sites in Korea and overseas. Standard currency for this report is the Korean won (KRW), with an average exchange rate of 1,108.11 KRW against the USD in 2011 (first quote of the day, selling rate). The exchange rate in effect on December 31, 2011 was USD 1 = KRW 1,159.00. Assurance To ensure credibility, this report has received a third party assurance from the Korea Productivity Center, which provides independent external assurance for corporate sustainability reports. The assurance statement is on pages 83-84. Information sources concerning LG Electronics’ sustainability management efforts Striving for Sustainability based on the LG Way With the LG Way (Customer-Value Creation, People-Oriented management, Jeong-Do Management) as its LG Electronics Website Environmental Report guiding principle, LG Electron(http://www.lg.com/sustainability) ics is adhering to the basics of management and seeking Contact Information mutually sustainable growth CSR Team, LG Electronics, LG Twin Towers, 128 Yeoui-daero, Yeongdeungpo-gu, Seoul, 157-721, Korea with stakeholders. Email: sustainability@lge.com Tel: 82-2-3777-3268 CONTENTS Report overview 2 Key Progress and Performance 4-5 CEO Message 6-7 Top Management Messages 8 Overview Management Philosophy 9 Corporate Overview 10-13 and Economic Performance CSR Management 14-15 R&D 16-17 Special Issue Water Solutions 18-19 Stakeholder Engagement 20 Stakeholder Stakeholder Consultation on CSR 21-22 Communication Materiality Analysis 23-25 Customer 26 Communication with Customers 27-29 Product Quality and Safety 30-31 Consumer Satisfaction 32-33 and After-Sales Service Environment 34 Greener Products 35-41 Low-Carbon Green Management 42-46 EESH Management 47-49 Materiality Business Partner 50 Report Win-Win Growth 51 CSR in Supply Chain 52-54 Conflict Minerals 55 Community 56 Social Contribution 57-61 Employee 62 Corporate Culture/Work-Life Balance 63-64 Talent Management 65-67 Fair Evaluation and Rewards 68 Labor Rights Protection 69-71 Corporate Governance 73 Compliance Risk Management 74 Management Jeong-Do Management 75 report Fair Trade 76 Information Security and Privacy Protection 77 Economic Data 78 Our Data Social Data 79 Environmental Data 80-82 Independent Assurance Statement 83-84 Appendix Memberships/Awards & Recognition 85 GRI/UNGC Index 86-88 4·2011-2012 LG Electronics Sustainability Report Key Progress and Performance Key CSR Issue Mid to Long Term Objective Product Quality and Safety • Achieve the “World's Best Product Safety” within three years (by 2013) Greener Products • Expand greener products • Improve product energy efficiency • Increase the use of recycled materials and reinforce E-waste management system Low-Carbon Green Management • Meet the reduction targets for GHG emissions associated with production and product use Production: Reduce 150,000 tons by 2020 from the base year 2008 Product use: Reduce 30 million tons by 2020 compared to the total energy consumption in 2007 • Expand green businesses • Expand GHG management throughout the value chain EESH Management • Establish a management system for suppliers’ manufacturing processes with high environmental impacts by 2013 • Improve the overseas EESH management level to over 90% level of Korea by 2013 CSR in Supply Chain • Implement the risk management system based on the Electronic Industry Citizenship Coalition (EICC) standards Conduct regular risk assessment and make corrective actions Conduct an audit on 25% of high-risk suppliers • Establish a tracking system for regulations on conflict minerals Social Contribution • Contribute to achieve the UN Millennium Development Goal 1 (Eradicate extreme poverty & hunger) and Goal 7 (Ensure environmental sustainability) by 2015 Corporate Culture/Work-Life Balance • Improve overall employees’ awareness of the LG Way (Overseas awareness is 89% compared to Korea’s index) Labor Rights Protection • Bring the risk level down to low at all production sites (100%) by 2014 (based on the EICC standard) • Strengthen internal regulations up to the EICC standard Overview | Key Progress and Performance·5 ·5 Major Achievement in 2011 Future Direction • Strengthened quality management • Raise employee awareness on product safety and establish Implemented the “Quality Penalty”system accountability Conducted a corporate wide Product Liability Audit by HQ • Create a corporate culture that puts product safety as the first priority • Recognized for “Excellence in Life Safety Achievements” in 2011 • Plan to establish an internal testing center exceeding the global • Received the Presidential Award in Standardization on World Standard standards Day 2011 • Acquired the “Energy Star Most Efficient” Certification • Continually strengthen the standards for greener products (Eight TV, two refrigerator and three washing machine models) • Reduce GHG emissions associated with product use by improving • Carbon Label: Korean Carbon Footprint Label, Carbon Trust, product energy efficiency Carbon Free • Increase and improve disclosure of product carbon footprint • Selected as “The Most Water Efficient Product” from the U.K.’s information Waterwise (Drum washing machine and dishwasher) • Increase E-waste recycling • Received the Presidential Prize at the 2011 Global Green Management Excellence Awards (TROMM Washing Machine) • Collected a total of 188,264 tons of E-waste (Korea, Japan, Europe and u.s.) • Reduced 102,000 tons of GHG emissions associated with production • Expand and reinforce GHG reduction efforts to meet the mid to compared to 2008 long term targets • Contributed to reduce 21 million tons of GHG emissions associated • Reinforce green businesses (photovoltaics, LED, etc.) with product use based on the total energy consumption in 2007 • Expand support for suppliers’ GHG reduction efforts • Developed and strengthened green businesses such as photovoltaics, LED lighting, smart grid, water solutions, etc. • Selected as the Carbon Management Global Leaders Club (Three consecutive years) • Strengthened the support system for overseas production • Improve the management and operation quality of the integrated subsidiaries’ EESH management EESH system • Established the audit system and fostered EESH auditors • Provide continual support to overseas subsidiaries and suppliers for • Acquired Korea’s first Green Management System Certification improving their EESH management capability • Included CSR requirements into Master Purchase Agreement • Expand the number of suppliers in CSR Risk Program • Provided CSR training for 152 suppliers • Increase certified conflict-free smelters within the supply chain • Conducted risk assessment for 213 suppliers • Performed onsite consulting for 17 suppliers • Conducted a survey on suppliers about the use of conflict minerals • Expanded social contributions to underdeveloped countries • Make social contributions utilizing our products and technology (Africa and Asia) • Increase volunteer activities for local communities at a subsidiary level • Utilized our technology in making social contributions • Maintain database on employee donations and volunteer work (LG Smart TV Charitable App, mobile phone for the visually impaired, LG Hope Screen, etc.) • Developed employee donation and volunteer programs and honored employees with an award (The LGE People Award – Volunteerism) • Increased direct communication between management and • Create a work environment promoting “Creativity and Autonomy” employees (Mr. CEO Email Account, Mr. CEO Pizza, field visits, etc.) • Strengthen“Work-Life Balance” activities for employees • Diversified support programs for employees and their family members • Conducted training for management and related staffers • Raise internal awareness of the CSR management program • Performed risk assessment on all production sites and implemented • Upgrade the CSR risk consulting process and tools improvement measures • Discover labor rights BP and share them widely • Conducted a survey on forced labor • Improve the overseas grievance resolution system • Performed consulting for 11 Chinese subsidiaries to make improvements 6·2011-2012 LG Electronics Sustainability Report Overview | CEO Message·7 CEO Message We will achieve sustainability by focusing our collective energy and resources into strengthening fundamentals and preparing for the future. What is the basis for LG Electronics’ pursuit to achieve sustainable management? As a leading global corporation, LG Electronics has been able to continue its growth, expanding in size and strengthening its fundamentals, with an emphasis on basics such as product quality. For us to continue sustainable growth, “Jeong-Do Management”, LG’s unique guiding principle for action, is essential. Only when we consistently strengthen fundamentals and compete in the market with integrity as we orient our business practices with “Jeong-Do Management”, will LG Electronics be able to create greater value for local and international communities, as well as our customers and employees. What are the main challenges of LG Electronics in achieving sustainable growth? As the prolonged economic contraction in advanced nations slows global economic growth, competition is becoming increasingly fierce. However, if we thoroughly plan and prepare for the future, such challenges could become an opportunity, not only for strengthening our fundamentals but also for taking a leap forward. To translate current challenges into opportunities and achieve sustainable management, LG Electronics is placing emphasis on four key areas. Firstly, we must secure “product leadership”. It is critical to introduce market leading products that offer differentiated value. Our ongoing effort into securing requisite R&D capability and impeccable quality is directly connected to product leadership. Secondly, we have to strengthen our fundamentals. We can never overemphasize the importance of respecting our customers and employees. LG Electronics has earned complete trust from stakeholders with its proper mindset, action, and superior quality. Thirdly, we need to build a solid ground for continued growth by thoroughly preparing for the future. Lastly, we have to create a “do it right” culture that inspires employees to strive for our vision of becoming No.1 LG with passion. Please tell us the areas where we need to place more effort into achieving sustainable management. First and foremost, we need to become an organization that facilitates communication. To make swift and accurate decisions in the rapidly changing global business climate, two-way communication between internal and external stakeholders becomes absolutely essential. Only when we can have a lively exchange of opinions will we be able to develop great products and bring them to the market in a timely manner. To promote communication, LG Electronics is advocating “field-oriented” management, and I will also work to increase opportunities to meet employees, ensuring valuable communication with them. Executives are going to get out there to meet diverse stakeholders, including our people, listen to what they have to say and incorporate their voices into management decisions, as part of our collective effort into achieving No.1 LG. We are strongly committed to make every effort to ensure that LG Electronics can continue its growth as a sustainable company, trusted and cherished for a long time to come. May 2012 Bon Joon Koo, Vice Chairman & CEO 8·2011-2012 LG Electronics Sustainability Report top management messages Young Ha Lee, Business Support Officer/President LG Electronics fully understands that the key to sustainable management is to listen to our stakeholders including customers, and incorporate their opinions and suggestions into business operations. We believe that it is through first fulfilling our basic responsibility of employing people and making profits based on stakeholders’ trust and “Jeong-Do” Management and making genuine efforts to resolve social and environmental issues that LG Electronics can achieve sustainability. LG Electronics will strive to act responsibly throughout its business operations, from development of products with both economic and social value through to responsible sourcing, protection of human rights, the environment, and contributions for addressing social issues. Skott Ahn, Chief Technology Officer/President For LG Electronics to achieve sustainability, we need to create new value for customers constantly, and technology innovation is the only thing that enables us to do this. To this end, LG Electronics is investing in new businesses such as photovoltaics and water solutions, striving for low-carbon green management and developing highly energy efficient products, as part of our effort to secure technology that reconciles economic and social value in a product or service. We will continue to innovate and develop great products and technology so that our customers can thrive in a healthy and clean environment and LG Electronics can become a global leader in social, cultural and environmental trends. Ki Wan Kim, Global Marketing Officer/Executive Vice President Being fully aware of the ever changing trends and customer needs and constantly engaging with customers to identify what they truly want, that is the role which marketing needs to play in the process of striving for sustainable management. LG Electronics is making every effort to accurately identify customer needs at all stages, from product development to post-production phases, including communicating product information and sales and distribution. LG Electronics will continue to provide differentiated value to our customers and increase brand trust while striving to become a responsible corporation that contributes to addressing mid to long term social challenges. Ho Geon Hwang, Chief Human Resources Officer/Senior Vice President All LG Electronics members have a responsibility to strive for sustainable management and fulfill their social responsibility as a member of their respective countries and communities based on our management principle, “People-Oriented Management”. LGE’s HR policy also aims at developing our employees to feel proud to be a member of LGE and utilize their capabilities to the fullest extent as well as grow into a responsible member of the society. We will pay continued attention and provide various supports to each and every member of LG Electronics so that all LGE members can become a responsible global corporate citizen. Overview | Management Philosophy·9 Management Philosophy The “LG Way” is a management principles unique to LG, arising during the inception of the company and perfected through decades of experience. It is a guiding principle of every LG employee’s thinking and action, and we are confident that by remaining true to the spirit of the “LG Way”, LG Electronics will continue to grow and flourish as a company respected by all stakeholders. Following the year 2011, LG Electronics further cultivated its corporate slogan in 2012, incorporating our strong commitment towards assertive action. This year’s corporate slogan encourages employees to become first movers in the market, and to thoroughly prepare for the future and do things the right way. Our slogan provides a specific means for placing our management principles into practice, and emphasizes our willingness to act. LG Way Corporate Slogan Representing LG’s unique corporate culture, the LG Way articulates Our 2012 slogan expresses the commitment of all LGE members toour belief in attaining our vision of becoming “No.1 LG” through wards overcoming the current challenges we face and taking a leap “Customer-Value Creation” and “People-Oriented Manegement”, as forward to become No.1 LG. We firmly believe that we can achieve we orient our business practices with “Jeong-Do Management”. our vision of becoming No.1 LG by remaining true to the spirit of the “LG Way”, and entrenching our leadership in the market through customer value innovation. Challenging Soul The Earth LGE members audaciously take The global market, on which on challenges in the global market LGE stages its efforts Smart Green GoldStar Yellow LGE’s commitment to humanity Commitment for strengthening No.1 LG “No.1 LG” is the ultimate goal to which all LG businesses actualized by sustainable green fundamental competitiveness to should strive. It expresses our commitment to become a dominant growth restore LGE to its former glory leader in the global market by consistently providing our customers with differentiated value in each and every market segment. Meaning behind the Slogan LGE’s slogan illustrates our belief that with increasing uncertainties Customer -Value Creation “Customer-Value Creation” is the very reaand competition, we must become the first mover in the market, make son for our existence, and is the core principle of LG Electronics. We thorough preparations for the future, and do things right if we want to are in business because customers buy our products and services, create differentiated value for customers. and it is only natural that we strive to provide greater value to and create new value for our customers. Be First This phrase expresses our commitment to becoming the first mover People-Oriented Management “People-Oriented Management” exin the market, preparing in advance and creating differentiated value presses our belief that each and every employee is an integral part for customers. LGE will strive to achieve its goals by sparing no effort of our effort to create value for customers. Based on this tenet, we to prevent risk, fearing no challenge, and actively pursuing innovation. are committed to creating an environment where our employees can reach their full potential and utilize their abilities to the fullest extent, Do it Right thereby fostering a spirited workforce that is prepared for challenge. This phrase illustrates our commitment to creating differentiated this will ultimately ensure an LG that is both strong, and competitive. value by doing things the right way and meeting our goals. LGE will achieve its goals with a collective passion for doing things right. Jeong-Do Management In order to gain the complete trust of our customers and achieve sustainable growth, “Customer-Value Creation” Work Smart and “People-Oriented Management” must be facilitated by “Jeong-Do This phrase expresses our commitment to focus our efforts on creatManagement.” LG Electronics believes that we can afford to compete ing real value for customers. LGE will base its decisions on customfairly and produce results with integrity by continuously strengtheners’ needs and desires, and provide innovative products and services ing our fundamentals. that significantly exceed your expectations. 10·2011-2012 LG Electronics Sustainability Report Corporate Overview and Economic Performance As of December 31, 2011 ( ): Change in figures compared with the previous year LG Electronics Overview Unit: KRW billion Organization Name LG Electronics, Inc. Total Assets 32,658.5 (+340) (Consolidated) Location of LG Twin Towers, 128 Yeoui-daero, Headquarters Total Liabilities Yeongdeungpo-gu, Seoul, 150-721, Korea 19,510.2 (+51.3) (Consolidated) Industry Manufacturing 28,097.1 (-1,141.4) Parent TV, Home Theater System, BluRay Player, Mobile Handset, Sales (Korea 8,174.7/Overseas19,922.4) Laptop Computer, Refrigerator, Washing Machine, Consolidated 54,256.6 (-1,497.2) Main Products Cooking Appliance, Built-in System Kitchenware, Vacuum Operating Parent (loss) (299.2) (+805.5) Cleaner, Health Care Appliance, Air Conditioner, Monitor, Profits Consolidated 280.3 (+103.8) Security System, Commercial Display, etc. CEO Bon Joon Koo AA (Domestic), Baa2 (Moody’s), Credit Rating BBB(S&P) Date of October 1, 1958 Establishment No. of Shareholders 199,094 No. of Employees 91,045 (+467) [Korea: 35,286/Overseas: 55,759] No. of Shares 180,833,806 In 2012, LG Electronics plans to maintain its existing Organizational Chart organizational structure, which was reconfigured around four business units (HE, MC, HA and AE ComCEO pany) in December 2010. We have reinforced the organization throughout our business operations from production through quality, purchasing, supply chain HE Europe Region Brazil COO Product Quality (Home Entertainment) Production and Sales management and CS to secure business competitiveCompany Representative Subsidiary (operating) Center ness based on product leadership. We also created MC Middle East & India CTO Corporate Strategic the Chief Operating Officer position to strengthen the (Mobile Communications) Africa Region Production and Sales Planning Division Company Representative Subsidiary (technology) preparation system for future businesses and build a fast and strong organization, thereby creating a strucHA Korea Marketing Russia CFO corporate business (Home Appliance) Production and Sales ture that well accommodates the company’s effort Company Subsidiary (financial) planning division Company for improving product competitiveness. Additionally, Indonesia Business corporate audit AE North America LGE removed overseas region representatives except (Air Conditioning & Energy Production and Sales Subsidiary Subsidiary Support Office division Solution) Company for Europe and Middle East & Africa and consolidated organizations with similar functions to speed Global Marketing EC Business Unit up the decision making process and facilitate optimal China Subsidiary Office resource allocation and strong business execution. In Corporate preparation for an increasing shift towards “Smart & Japan Subsidiary Design Center Convergence”, we have reinforced relevant organizations at Business Units, HQ and CTO including R&D, cho Production and (human Resources) strategic planning, and product planning. Sales Subsidiaries As of December 31, 2011 Domestic Subsidiaries Unit: KRW billion Company Main Business Capital Sales Transactional Relationship (Percentage of Ownership) HiPlaza Wholesale & Retail of Electronics 37.20 (100.00%) 1,398.7 Product Sales HiLogistics Logistics Management & Service 3.60 (100.00%) 379.7 Logistics Service Hi-M Solutek Generic Machinery and Equipment repair 3.50 (100.00%) 57.5 Service HiTeleservice Call Center and Telemarketing Service 0.15 (100.00%) 45.6 Service Innovation Investment New Technology Business Investment 30.00 (83.33%) 1.1 Investment Cooperative KTV Tech Investment New technology business investment 5.48 (99.83%) 0 Investment Cooperative New Venture Investment New technology business investment 10.40 (96.15%) 0.1 Investment Cooperative ACE R&A Co. Air Conditioner Manufacturing 1.00 (100.00%) 25.2 Product Manufacturing and Sales HiEntech Water Quality Engineering 2.50 (100.00%) 35.1 Service Overview | Corporate Overview and Economic Performance·11 ·11 Business Operations and Main Products LGE is organized into four business units: Home Entertainment (HE), Mobile Communications (MC), Home Appliance (HA), and Air Conditioning & Energy Solution (AE) and leading the global market with innovative consumer electronic products, mobile communication devices and home appliance technologies. MC Company Mobile Handset, Smartphone, Netbook,Tablet PC, HE Company and Network Infortainment LCD TV, PDP TV, LCD Monitor, Audio & Video, and Security Systems With the expansion of the smartphone market, the share of smartphone in overall Despite the sales increase of premium products such as CINEMA 3D TV and sales increased about 39% (in sales amount) thanks to improved product competiSmart TV, overall sales (Parent) were down 4% compared to the previous tiveness. However, the contraction of the feature phone market and disapyear at KRW 9,226.5 billion due to contractions in the TV market and pointing sales performance of a few new smartphone models led to a IT demand, and sales (Parent) decreases in CRT TV and PDP TV. sales (Parent) decrease of 9% compared to the previous year at KRW LGE’s LCD TV M/S jumped to the 2nd in the global market and 9,330.3 billion. Profitability, on the other hand, is showing continuprofit increased despite the sales contraction thanks to successous improvement thanks to a sales increase led by LTE handsets ful profitability management across the business segments. and cost structure improvement from efficient cost management. HA Company AE Company Refrigerator, Washing Machine, Kitchen Appliance, Residential Air Conditioner, Commercial Air Conditioner, Vacuum Cleaner, Healthcare Appliance, and Water Solutions Solar Energy Solution, LED Lighting, and Network Solution Due to the prolonged economic contraction in Europe and slow recovery in Thanks to robust sales growth in the advanced markets and sales increases in the U.S., sales growth in the advanced markets was negligible. However, LGE the Korean and emerging markets (including South & Central America and CIS continued to expand its sales in the Korean and emerging markets and recorded regions) underpinned by superior product competitiveness and a heat wave, KRW 4,793.7 billion in sales (Parent), up 4% from the previous year. In the refrigsales (Parent) went up by 17% from the previous year, recording KRW 2,302.1 erator and washing machine segments, LGE showed superior competitiveness billion. LGE gained market share in system air conditioners in Korea and overseas with high capacity and efficiency models. In the new business segment, the by focusing marketing efforts on strategic markets and effectively responding to Company continued to expand its healthcare business including water purifier stricter energy regulations. and established infrastructure for water solution business. Sales by Company (Consolidated) Unit: KRW billion (%) No. of Employees (Korea) Unit: No. of Employees (%) (As of December 31, 2011) (As of December 31, 2011) 4,557.0 (8%) 2,903 (8%) 22,381.5 (41%) 9,056 (26%) 11,111.3 (21%) 4,312 (12%) Total * Total HE Company * HE Company 54,256.6 35,286 MC Company MC Company HA Company HA Company 11,692.5 (22%) AE Company 10,050 (28%) AE Company *The total sales include those generated from other businesses and the internal trans*The total number of employees includes those at HQ (8,965/26%). A percentage of actions between companies (KRW 4,514.3 billion/8%). A percentage of sales by Korean employees by Company was calculated based on the organizational structure company was calculated based on the organizational structure implemented with the implemented with the 2010 (December) reform. 2010 (December) reform. 12·2011-2012 LG Electronics Sustainability Report Shared Economic Gains (parent) The European financial crisis, the global economic contraction and Economic Value Generated, Distributed and Retained Unit: KRW billion (parent) decreasing sales prices resulting from intensifying competition created by a tough business climate in the year 2011. Although rising Category 2009 2010 2011 commodity prices eroded profit margins on home appliances, the Sales 30,513.4 29,238.5 28,097.1 improved profitability in TVs, air conditioners and mobile handsets Non-operating Income contributed to reducing operating loss, showing a gradual turnaround 2,115.1 2,046.9 1,469.3 and Financial Profits in overall performance. Sales were down 4% from the previous year Economic Value Generated 32,628.5 31,285.4 29,566.4 with KRW 28.971 trillion. The weakened profitability led to a significant decrease in corporate tax and other dues. Wages and benefits for emOperating Expenses 29,100.9 30,343.1 28,396.3 ployees and dividends increased while financial contributions for its Wages and Benefits 2,079.5 2,173.5 2,488.5 social activities decreased significantly. Capital Costs 472.5 178.0 252.8 LGE is fulfilling its economic responsibility by sharing the economic Taxes & Dues 230.8 23.5(51.3) 25.6 value created through business activities with a variety of stakeholders, such as shareholders, business partners, employees and local Social Contribution 15.6 21.4 10.8 communities. LGE strives to improve its business profitability and Economic Value Distributed 31,899.3 32,739.5 31,174.0 secure new opportunities for growth to distribute greater value to Economic Value Retained 729.2 1,454.1 1,607.6 our stakeholders. · Non-operating income and financial profits: Expressed in accordance with the Dividends Korean International Financial Reporting Standards (K-IFRS). · Operating expenses consist of sales costs and administrative expenses. Category 2009 2010 2011 · Capital costs consist of interest expenses and dividends. Net Income for the year · Taxes & dues consist of corporate taxes, public dues, resident tax and a special tax 2,052.8 635.9 277.9 (KRW billion) for rural development. · The figures in parenthesis ( ) indicate a mistake made on data disclosed in the 2010 Earnings per share (KRW) 12,740 3,929 1,543 report. The figures have been adjusted to fix the errors identified during the verificaTotal Dividends Paid tion process. 282.7 33.1 36.9 (KRW billion) Dividend Payout Ratio (%) 13.77 · In 2010 LGE adopted the Korean International Financial Reporting Standards (K-IFRS) prior to its mandatory implementation and applied it to the 2010 performance. The 2009 data in this table are based on the Korean Business Accounting Standards. Flow of Economic Value (Parent, 2011) Unit: KRW billion Social Contribution Dividends 10.8 36.9 Community Shareholders Interest Sales 215.9 28,097.1 Creditors Customers Taxes & Dues Wages & Benefits 25.6 2,488.5 Government Employees Purchasing & Service Expenses 31,000 Suppliers Overview | Corporate Overview and Economic Performance·13 ·13 Global Network Unit: KRW trillion Employees by Country As of december 31, 2011 Global Sales and Operating Profit (Consolidated) (USD billion) Korea China Brazil India 35,286 16,228 6,178 5,225 (38.8%) (17.8%) (6.8%) (5.7%) Sales 55.8 54.3 55.5 (USD 43.5) (USD 48.2) (USD 49.0) Mexico Poland Indonesia Others 49.3 4,538 16,501 (USD 44.7) 4,356 2,733 (5.0%) (4.8%) (3.0%) (18.1%) Sales Overview (Parent) Unit: KRW billion 2.9 (USD 2.1) Category 2009 2010 2011 Operating 2.1 Profit (USD 1.9) 0.3 Korea 6,665.0 6,892.0 8,174.7 0.2 (USD 0.25) (USD 0.15) Sales Overseas 23,848.4 22,346.5 19,922.4 Total 30,513.4 29,238.5 28,097.1 2008 2009 2010 2011 Net income 1,419.0 1,077.0 402.4 USD 1 = KRW 1,103 (2008)/KRW 1,276 (2009)/KRW 1,157 (2010)/KRW 1,108 (2011) before taxes Global Operations (As of December 31, 2011) Headquarters (Seoul) Pyeongtaek Site Cheongju Site Gumi Site cis Changwon Site (I & II Plant) Production 2 Europe Sales 2 Production 2 Others 2 Sales 14 R&D Center 3 China North America Others 5 Production 13 R&D Center 3 Korea Production 3 Sales 1 Sales 5 Others 1 Production/sales 6 Others 1 R&D Center 7 R&D Center 34 R&D Center 5 Japan Sales 1 South & Central Middle East America & Africa R&D Center 2 Asia Production 2 Production 4 Production 7 Sales 7 Sales 8 Sales 4 Others 1 Others 5 R&D Center 2 R&D Center 1 R&D Center 1 Global Sales by Region Unit: % 26 14 14 13 12 9 6 5 1 North America Europe Korea Asia South & Central Middle East CIS China Japan America & Africa Excluded: Direct sales of Headquarters and overseas production subsidiaries were not included in the overseas sales 14·2011-2012 LG Electronics Sustainability Report CSR Management LG Electronics is not only internalizing Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) throughout its business operations but also striving to provide differentiated value to its stakeholders with technology and product innovations. It is our plan to first earn stakeholders’ trust through such efforts and achieve sustainable growth. LG Electronics will continue its efforts to improve CSR performance to become a well-respected global corporate citizen. CSR Management CSR Change Management In order for LG Electronics to earn the trust of stakeholders and To facilitate continual value creation and build strong fundamentals, achieve sustainable growth, it first must become a healthy organism LGE established the CSR Committee comprised of top executives inin the market ecosystem and assume a proactive role in making the cluding CEO and the Global CSR Council (an corporate-wide workingsystem healthier throughout its business activities, including products level staff council). The CSR Committee makes executive decisions and services. Additionally, we need to take care of our communities, concerning the company’s CSR direction and strategies, while the help those in need become self-reliant, interface and communicate Global CSR Council formulates specific plans and action plans based with a variety of stakeholders throughout this process, and form a on executive decisions, translating them into corporate-wide CSR actrust-based relationship with them. tivities. To meet this goal, LGE established and is implementing four strategic Each of LGE’s four business units launched a CSR committee in 2011, tasks: CSR Change Management, CSR Risk Management, Stakeholder responsible for reporting the Company’s CSR performance and inEngagement and Strategic Social Contribution. From product R&D troducing CSR management BP from the subsidiaries under their through purchasing, production, sales and after sales service, LGE is purview. In April 2012, CSR activities were presented at the Board of striving to improve its CSR execution while strengthening its efforts to Directors (BOD) meeting for the first time and the BOD bylaws were build consensus and partnership with stakeholders. amended to include CSR in its official agenda. Upon joining the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) and the Electronics Industry Citizenship Coalition (EICC), LGE strengthened its CSR Management System compliance management for all Korean and overseas production sites and suppliers while requiring new hires (start-up/with experience), sojourning employees and subsidiary president candidates to undergo CSR training to raise employee awareness of the issue. We plan to expand training to specialists such as procurement managers from 2012. LGE was also included in the Dow Jones Sustainability Asia-Pacific InSustainable Growth dex for two straight years from 2010. we analyzed the assessment rebased upon Stakeholder Trust sults and identified areas for improvement, registering improvement tasks to the respective departments and monitoring. CSR Risk Management Strategic Social Contribution Stakeholder Engagement · Establish a monitoring system · Contributions utilizing Since April 2010, LG Electronics has been holding a semiannual Stake· Respond to stakeholders' technology and products requirements and regulations · Global partnership programs holder Consultation to build consensus with its major stakeholders · Perform risk self-assessment (customers, suppliers, the government, and investors, etc.) and seek and audit of high risk group their opinions on its CSR activities. Stakeholder Consultation was held with the theme of “Social Contribution”in March 2011, and “Product Safety” in April 2012. LGE’s performance in each area was reviewed, Stakeholder Engagement · Stakeholder communication programs · CSR Campaign and the company’s role going forward as a global corporation was · Sustainability Report · CSR Promotion explored. To expand its contact points with global stakeholders, LGE plans to hold Stakeholder Consultation at overseas locations, such as Europe and North America. Additionally, we are engaging our CSR Change Management stakeholders through social network outlets including blog, twitter · Support CSR Standards · Employee training and facebook and encouraging them to participate in our volunteer · Support decision making and · Employee Engagement operate CSR Council work and donation campaigns. LGE is also actively accommodating stakeholder (buyer, NGO, etc.) inquiries and interview requests on CSR issues (a total of 49 instances in 2011). We are conducting regular r&d Procurement Production Marketing & Sales + α exchanges with academia, industries and consulting agencies and share our CSR efforts and experience in diverse CSR events such as io n to conferences, seminars and forums. ut rib g s To raise the awareness of internal stakeholders (employees) on CSR nt in ue v Co sol l iss re cia nso of ro vi nd en y a n l o n nd pti io ie ot ly fr sum issues and promote employee participation in donations and volom al on Pr nt l c e m hica ig hts et rr t bo n la me of n s n iro ite tio nv n s unteer activities, we send out a periodic CSR newsletter to all team ec e io ot he ct Pr d t du an pro at g cin anur so n m le hai sib y c leaders both in Korea and overseas and share CSR information with on pl sp up t Re s n d e an em ag m ent op el to s ev ial es employees via intranet, an internal communication magazine, signt d fic in uc ne bus od be Pr th ty & bo cie so boards, on site digital media displays, etc. Overview | CSR Management·15 ·15 1 2 3 1 Panel Discussion at the Global HR Forum 2 CSR Training for Start-up Level Recruits (Volunteering at a Nursing Home) 4 5 6 3 CSR Training for New Hires (Creating and Donating a Veget able Garden) 4 LGE Case Presentation at the High-Level Forum on Aid Effectiveness 5/6 Global CSR Manager Training Program systems based on the EICC Code of Conduct, and making improveStakeholder Engagement Process ments to address the issues identified through the process. In the first half of 2011, we required 34 production sites (Korea and overseas) to perform self-assessment (the EICC Self-Assessment Questionnaire). Identify Assess engagement stakeholders risk & opportunity Although the assessment revealed that none of the sites were at high Analyze risk, we concluded that consulting and regular monitoring is required to lower the overall risk level at all production sites. Additionally, we asked 213 major suppliers to perform the self-assessment, which Identify identified 45 suppliers at high risk. Based on the results, we conPlan & Design engagement level ducted onsite consulting for 17 of the 45 sites identified as the high & methods risk group. From 2012, LGE plans to perform regular self-assessments, site inspections, consulting and monitoring for all its production sites (Korea and overseas) as well as its first-tier suppliers (More details on pp. 52-54 and 70-71). Engagement Engage Strategic Social Contribution The strategic focus of LG Electronics’ social contribution efforts is to achieve the United Nations Millennium Development Goals, parIdentify ticularly on resolving issues related to the environment, poverty and Take key issues Correspondence actions diseases in developing countries. Our efforts were fully represented in such cooperative initiatives as LGE’s sponsorship of UNEP’s (the United Nations Environment Programme) Champions of the Earth Awards, a partnership with the un WFP (the UN World Food Programme) for famine relief efforts in Africa and Asia, and cooperation with the InterPublic reporting Competency national Vaccine Institute (the IVI) in providing vaccines to Ethiopia. building LGE also utilizes its technology and products to resolve social issues: Evaluate & a mobile phone that reads books for the visually impaired and a chariReview table app for LG Smart TV are a few examples of such efforts. The increasing participation of employees in LGE’s social contributions was evidenced by the “Life’s Good volunteers” which shared its knowledge Reviewing and talent and the “Life’s Good Day” event where employees chose to enjoy simpler meals and pass the savings on in the form of donations. LGE’s social contribution efforts also include the LGE Labor Union’s Union Social Responsibility (USR) activities and support to start-up CSR Risk Management social enterprises (More details on pp. 56-61). Since 2010, LG Electronics has been assessing CSR risk management at production sites both in Korea and overseas in the areas of labor rights, ethics, the environment, safety and health, and management 16·2011-2012 LG Electronics Sustainability Report Special Issue Ⅰ Stronger R&D Capability R&D Workforce and Investment R&D Investment Unit: krw trillion As of year-end 2011, LG Electronics invested 3.1% of its consolidated 3.1% revenue for the year, or KRW 1.7 trillion, in R&D with a total R&D staff 2.7% of 15,506 personnel in Korea. LGE plans to recruit more quality R&D Share from 2.3% Revenue 1.7 talents to strengthen its fundamentals. 1.5 In 2012, we plan to invest a total of KRW 2.8 trillion into product lead1.3 ership, production innovation and new businesses, including KRW 840 billion for stronger fundamentals and preparation for the future. R&D Investment 2009 2010 2011 Preparation for Future Businesses In order to continue the success in our core businesses for the R&D investments accordingly. In 2012, we are undertaking the future, LGE has designated Energy, Living & Eco, Automobile following tasks with a goal to establish a solid foundation for and Healthcare as the “Four New Businesses” and is making future businesses with thorough preparation. Energy Automobile Focus investments in new and renewable Develop various smart car solutions energy sources, such as solar cell, fuel cell, to improve driving conditions, reduce etc., which are expected to replace fossil fuels environmental impacts, save energy, etc. Living & Eco Make differentiated R&D investment into Healthcare eco-friendly LED lighting Establish a remote healthcare system in Develop an energy management solution that preparation for the aging society and invest in facilitates efficient energy use in residential and developing the next generation hospital grade commercial buildings medical diagnosis equipment Develop a total solution for water treatment Patent Holdings LTE Patent Holdings and Estimated Value unit: USD million Possessing world-class competitiveness in telecommunications and broadcasting patents, LGE is consistently striving to maintain a balpatent holder ownership of essential lte patents (%) estimated value anced level of patent competitiveness across its businesses. In the LG Electronics 23% 7,907 area of telecommunications standards, U.S. investment bank Jefferies qualcomm 21% 7,329 & Co recently announced that LGE currently holds the largest share interdigital 9% 3,279 (23%) of key global LTE patents, with over 1,400 patents valued at motorola 9% 3,279 about USD 7.9 billion. nokia 9% 3,086 Additionally, LGE is strengthening patent partnerships with competisamsung 9% 3,086 tors, forging a licensing agreement with Sony to share each other’s zte 6% 2,121 patent portfolios across their respective businesses and also with Minortel 4% 1,350 crosoft. etri 2% 771 The Blu-ray patent portfolio LGE jointly manages with HP, Hitachi, ti 2% 771 Philips and Sony is generating licensing fees as well (Blu-ray Disc: An ericsson 2% 579 optical disc storage medium driven by the optical recording format nsn 2% 579 established by the Blu-ray Disc Association, which is headlined by rim 1% 386 Sony. Stores digital data for high definition (HD) video materials). freescale 1% 193 In order to maintain its competitiveness, LGE is seeking to acquire huawei 1% 193 more patents, paying particular attention to elevate overseas patents nec 1% 193 to a similar level as Korea’s. source: jefferies & co Special Issue | R&D·17 ·17 LG Electronics is striving to achieve sustainable growth by making an earnest effort to strengthen its R&D activities aimed at future growth. The company is engaging in strategic R&D tasks based upon the three pillars of R&D, namely Y+ 3+ Technology for core businesses, Innovation Technology for new and future businesses and generic technology utilized by all businesses. Additionally, we are expanding investments into establishing an R&D management system and attaining fundamental capabilities. Open Innovation Activities Innovative Company In 2011, LG Electronics was named as one of the World's 100 Most Development of Original TechnolTechnology Exchange, Innovative Companies by the world-leading business intelligence ogy for Material and Component Collaboration in New Business provider Thomson and Reuters, clearly showing that guided by its Exploration of Smart Technology & Technology management principle of “Customer-Value Creation”, our company is leading the market with innovative technology and products that LG Affiliate completely surprise customers with features that they haven’t even Overseas R&D Center thought they needed. Breaking away from traditional practices, LG Electronics is utilizing “Open Innovation” activities that promote R&D collaboration with overseas R&D Centers, LG affiliates and external organizations as well as interpersonal and inter-organizational coopExternal eration within LGE. Organization LGE is making every effort to deliver only the pure essential technolIndividual/ ogy to customers as thoroughly verified throughout each stage of Organization Collaboration with Leaders in Other Industries, product development (research, development and commercialization). Collaboration between IndiPromising Venture Firms, Our goal is to establish an R&D system that facilitates the “Open Innoviduals and R&D Centers Academia and the Govvation” development approach at a technology level to secure broader ernment application, rather than focusing on specific technology for a single product. This will allow us to utilize developed technology for diverse businesses in a timely manner. Easy for the Eyes, FPR (Film Patterned Retarder) Technology FPR (Film Patterned Retarder) is a 3D technology employing a precise film substrate attached to the LCD TV panel to show left and right images through different patterns in a circular polarizer. LG CINEMA 3D TV (“CINEMA 3D”) using the FPR technology is a culmination of joint effort, with LG Chem’s film being attached onto LG Innotek’s LED device utilizing LG Display’s panel application technology, and LGE’s TV technology adding the final touch. CINEMA 3D, in particular, is applied with a special film instead of a glass film, drastically reducing production costs. The development of LGE’s FPR technology was facilitated by full support and expeditious decision making by management, which placed customer convenience first and foremost. CINEMA 3D fully addresses all issues associated with the Shutter Glasses (SG) 3D technology such as flickering, dizziLCD 3D Light LCD ness, dark image and uncomfortable glasses. Unlike SG 3D FPR film Backlight Boost Panel that blocks images and closes glass lens alternately, FPR 3D simultaneously shows both left-eye and right-eye images, as with viewing 2D images, thereby offering brighter images and wider viewing angles. It also provides greater 3D viewing Polarized Glasses experience with flicker-free images, which avoid headaches and dizziness associated with SG 3D systems. This has been officially proved by certification agencies TüV Rheiland of Germany and Intertek of the U.S. certifying CINEMA 3D as flicker-free. Additionally, CINEMA 3D glasses don’t require batteries or circuitry, generate no harmful electromagnetic waves, and are offered at affordable prices. Unlike SG 3D, FPR 3D does not require synching, enabling a large number of users to simultaneously enjoy 3D , as well as other FPR devices such as 3D TV, monitor, laptop, etc. with the same pair of glasses. 18·2011-2012 LG Electronics Sustainability Report Special Issue Ⅱ Water, A New Challenge and Key for Future Growth Water Solutions Water Scarcity and Outlook for the Water Treatment Market Water is an essential resource for human societies and natural ecosystems. But the combined effects of climate change, population growth and urbanization are causing rapid desertification and global water shortages. Estimates project that fresh water supplies per capita will decrease to a third of current levels in the next 25 years, and if current rates of freshwater use continue, 4 billion of the world’s 7.8 billion people will not have sufficient access to clean water by the year 2025. (Source: The United Nations World Water Development Report) Since the shortage of available water and deteriorating water quality directly impact business competitiveness and individual quality of life, countries and multi-national corporations are taking notice of the value and potential of the water market and quickly moving to develop it into a strategic industry. According to the 2011 Global Water Intelligence Report, the size of the global water market is currently estimated at KRW 500 trillion (2012), and expected to reach KRW 595 trillion by 2016, with an annual growth rate of 4.5%. Size of the Global Water Market Unit: KRW trillion Water Solutions, A New Growth Engine for LG Electronics LG Electronics is well prepared for the water solution business. Thanks to our efforts in developing great home appliances, we have gained relevant capabilities and experience in this area. Our company has un595 dertaken a broad number of studies on water properties to develop a perfect washing machine for European customers which is resistant to 500 tap water containing high levels of calcium. We also acquired sophisticated water purification technology from our quest to develop a water purifier that filters all harmful substances while preserving healthy minerals. Utilizing water treatment know-how acquired from developing washing machines, refrigerators and water purifiers, LGE set 2012 2016 out to develop its water solution business into a new growth engine, which was designated as one of the company’s viable green growth businesses for the future along with electronic vehicle parts, LED and Size of the Regional Water Market in 2012 Unit: KRW trillion photovoltaics in the “Green 2020 Strategy” announced in 2009. South & Central America 40 Status of LG Electronics’ Water Solutions The water solution business entails the design and construction of North America 115 water treatment plants that purify water, as well as the production of East Asia equipment used in such plants. LGE was able to fast track the water 160 solution business in 2009 because it already possessed key technolMiddle East & Africa 50 ogy for producing membranes, a thin film-like structure used to filter Eastern Europe, water in water treatment plants (Membrane for sewage treatment: Central Asia, etc. 25 LGE RMC Business Unit; Membrane for drinking water treatment: LG Western Europe 110 Hausys, an affiliate of LGE). Not being satisfied with the current level of success, LGE is concentrating its R&D efforts into developing a difSource: Global water Intelligence (GWI) ferentiated water treatment system utilizing membrane technology, Special Issue | Water Solutions·19 ·19 successfully developing new environmental technology such as the G-MBR (Green-Membrane Bio Reactor) process, which reduces the eutrophication-causing phosphate with greater efficiency. More recently, LGE made an agreement with Hitachi Plant Technologies to cooperate in water treatment plant design and construction, and launched a joint venture LG-Hitachi Water Solutions (LHWS) in February 2012. Based on the synergy between LGE’ IT R&D infrastructure and Hitachi’s technological capability in water solution, the partnership is viewed as a strategic success for both companies in advancing their positions in the global water market. Going forward, LHWS will establish itself as a leader in water solutions focusing on drinking and sewage water treatment and reuse, industrial water supply, and industrial water treatment and reuse. Scope of Water Solution Business Based on the perspective that operation and management of a water treatment plant is just Equipment Membrane Technology LG Electronics as important as designing and Manufacturing (LG Electronics/LG Hausys) constructing one, LGE acquired Design & Partnership with Hitachi LG-Hitachi Daewoo Entech, a leader in Korea’s Construction Plant Technologies Water Solutions (LHWS) municipal sewage water treatment plant operation and management Operation & Acquisition of Daewoo Entech HiEntech in August 2011. With the acquisiManagement tion, LGE completed its preparation to become a comprehensive water solution provider, securing capabilities ranging from mid to large size water treatment plant design and construction to equipment manufacturing and supply, and to plant operation and management. Outlook for Water Solution Business LGE has established a goal to become a global leading provider of comprehensive water solutions by 2020, with KRW 2 trillion in revenues. For the next ten years, LGE will invest more than KRW 500 billion to meet the sales target and become one of the ten largest water Solution providers. LG Group identified water solution as a new growth engine and has made consistent investments over the past two years to establish business infrastructure. Now, we are ready to make the plunge and produce some results. Based on our knowledge in cutting-edge technology such as IT and Smart Grid, LGE will create a smart water system only LG can deliver. We plan to focus our efforts more on the emerging markets than advanced countries, starting with the markets that show favorable reception to the LG brand. As a green technology for the future, water solutions hold great potential for growth; the size of the global market is currently estimated at KRW 500 trillion and expected to grow 4.5 % annually with climate change and environmental pollution sustaining the demand. LGE will spare no efforts and investments to become a leader of this promising market by 2020. Young Ha Lee Business Support officer, LG Electronics/ President, LG-Hitachi Water Solutions 20·2011-2012 LG Electronics Sustainability Report Stakeholder Engagement Based on active communication with its stakeholders, LG Electronics strives to provide differentiated value to diverse stakeholders including customers and achieve sustainable management, while contributing to the improvement in quality of life for all humanity. procurement (Responsible Sourcing, Supply Chain Management) Expectations ·Disclosure of transparent management information Expectations ·Increase of investment values through ·Fair trade efficient management ·Timely payment Production R&D ·Improvement of corporate values through ·Support for CSR management effort (Protection of Human (Product Development CSR activities Communication Channels Rights and Environment beneficial both to sociCommunication Channels ·Global supplier’s day, supplier portal, at Production Sites) ·general shareholders’ meeting, perforsatisfaction surveys, proposal system, ety and to business) mance presentation, investor conference, fund and programs for supporting suppliers websites, management report, business report Expectations ·Minimization of environmental Expectations ers Sup impact near factories h o ld r s p li er ·Protection of human rights and respect for diversity ·Respect for the culture and tradition re sto s ha Inve ·Fair evaluation and rewards of local communities S ·Provision of career development opportunity ·Contributions to local communities s & ·Worksite health & safety Em C o m m u n i ti e ·Contributions to the local economy by ·Effort into improving corporate culture ployees hiring local employees Communication Channels Communication Channels ·Open communication session, ·Community care activities, labormanagement conference, junior board, sports sponsorship, discussion meeting, internal magazine, intranet, newsletter, websites LG Way Survey NG a n om er iz O ers Int gan ti s/ Or at ona st Expectations io l Cu Expectations ns Cen l ·Reduction of GHG tral & Loca ·Provision of safe products and services ·Participation in and support for tackling Governments ·Fair marketing and provision of accurate information global social issues ·Privacy protection ·Contribution to meeting MDGs ·Customer delight ·Contribution to labor/human rights Communication Channels protection in developing countries ·Service center, survey, exhibition, ·Bridge the digital divide websites, blogs, prosumers Communication Channels Expectations ·Seminar, discussion meeting, ·Compliance with laws and regulations community contribution activities, ·Payment of tax websites ·Cooperation with government policies Communication Channels ·Public hearing, discussion meeting, seminar Social Marketing Contribution & Sales (Contribution to (Promotion of Resolving Social Sustainable Issues) Consumption) Stakeholder Communication | Stakeholder Consultation on CSR·21 ·21 Stakeholder Consultation on CSR In order to build consensus between LG Electronics and its stakeholders on Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) and incorporate their diverse opinions into its sustainability management, LG Electronics started a semiannual Stakeholder Consultation from 2010. Comprised of experts in a variety of fields, Stakeholder Consultation is establishing itself as one of the most valuable communication channel for stakeholder engagement. How to operate consultation Reinforce Preventative Safety Measures Stakeholder Consultation consists of an internal panel of LGE manEstablish a risk assessment system: agement and an external panel of professionals from various fields. To Develop an effective assessment technique for predictable risks and secure fairness and neutrality of the proceedings, Stakeholder Consulperform regular assessment tation is presided over by an independent expert in CSR management. Improve the safety of components from suppliers Members of the external panel can freely present their opinions from Review the service center record on parts replacement: a global perspective as individuals, not as representatives of their orImprove parts with a frequent replacement record in the product ganizations. Results of the consultation are recorded and distributed safety design and development phase in the form of minutes after review by participants, and then made Establish safety management process for durable products: Inform public through the sustainability report. individual consumers and help them receive regular check-ups Improve Product Information & Warnings for Consumers Key Inputs from Stakeholders Strengthen display and wordings of misuse warnings: Provide sufficient information on the reasons why such misuse can pose hazard 4th Stakeholder Consultation (April 6th, 2012) Display regular check-up period for durable products Develop a manual app providing usage directions · Topic: LG Electronics’ Product Safety and Quality Management; Exploring its Role in Promoting Safe Use of Electronics Products Miscellaneous Collect feedback from the general public on product manuals · Moderator: Min Gu Jun through SNS and incorporate their opinions before finalizing them (Divisional Director, Two Tomorrows Asia) Foster product safety specialists with a legal mind Protect user groups most vulnerable to safety incidents (children, Establish Global PL Response System elderly, and those with disabilities) Changes in business conditions such as FTA requires compliance Form a collaborative relationship with consumers through consumwith international standards on product safety: er organizations Review legal precedents in the U.S. by state and European Create a connection between LGE’s management philosophy and standards on product safety product safety: Proactive Implementation of Product Recall: Build a consensus on the importance of product safety across the The Korean government to strengthen the collection of recall inforboard (from top executives to employees) mation for export items. Need to establish speedy and appropriate recall procedures 22·2011-2012 LG Electronics Sustainability Report · Participants in the 4th Stakeholder Consultation Chae Heung Park Professor, Business Administration, Ewha Womans University Nam Jeung Kim Director, Product Safety Policy Division, Korean Agency for Technology & Standards, Ministry of Knowledge Economy Jong Hoon Kim Director, Electrical Safety Research Institute, KESCO (Korea Electrical Safety Corporation) Yong Soo Jeong Senior Research Fellow, Consumer Safety Center, Korea Consumer Agency In Rae Park President, Green Consumer Network Korea Incorporation of Consultation Results Key suggestions from the 3rd Stakeholder Consultation held in the port the current activities in this Sustainability Report. Items requiring first half of 2011 were reflected in the 2011 materiality analysis. Some further development will be shared in the next consultation meeting suggestions were also incorporated into LGE management activities and sustainability report to facilitate continuous improvement. (mainly in CSR activities), and sincere efforts have been made to reActivities and Plan to Incorporate the 3rd Consultation Results Key Suggestions Activities in 2011/Plans for 2012 Launched a charitable app for LG Smart TV (run in conjunction with SNS donation campaigns) Utilize business capabilities Provided international organizations and NGOs with opportunities to promote their causes (Technology, marketing, network, etc.) (environment, poverty, diseases) using the LED billboard at the New York Times Square Conducted management training and provided productivity consulting for social enterprises Support developing countries utilizing new businesses (solar energy, water solutions) Utilize a private-public partnership Planning for further development through the Ethiopia project from 2012: Utilize employees’ professional “LG Hope Community” capabilities in volunteer work Provide vocational training to foster talent customized for local needs Developing and distributing a mobile phone that reads books for the visually impaired (from 2006 to present) Bridge the digital divide utilizing Providing computer training for those with severe disabilities “LG IT Angels” (from 2004 to present) the ICT technology Providing a science and environment class for grade school students in provincial areas “Life's Green Class” (from 2006 to present) Secure safe drinking water Supporting the International Vaccine Institute for developing cholera vaccine and distributing them to eradicate diseases in developing countries (from 2008 to present) Establish regular schedule for assessing and monitoring progress of mid to long term performance Being reviewed for implementation after 2013 as a mid to long term project Dispatch employee volunteer groups for mid to long term missions Stakeholder Communication | Materiality Analysis ·23 Materiality Analysis Materiality Analysis Process Employee Survey LG Electronics performs a materiality analysis to systematically manThe survey conducted in November 2011 of 370 employees (execuage important sustainability issues that our stakeholders are comtives, team leaders and staffers related to CSR management in Korea monly interested in and have significant impact on our business and overseas) indicated that the materiality of issues such as “Green operations. Based on the “Five-Part Materiality Test” of the AA1000 Product Development,” “Corporate Culture” and “Fair Trade” was instakeholder engagement standard, we identify key issues by taking creased. LGE’ sustainability efforts were rated 3.5 on a 5 point scale. into account a variety of internal and external surveys, stakeholder In the LG Way Survey conducted of all Korean and overseas employquestionnaires, and relevant international standards. ees, 72% of those questioned responded positively to our sustainabilThe key issues are selected based on their relevance to stakeholder inity efforts terest and impact on LGE and finalized after a review by the management and assurer. The issues identified as material are fully disclosed LG Way Survey Results and reviewed regularly in the sustainability report and Key Progress Question: LG Electronics is fully aware of the materiality of social, and Performance (pp. 4-5). We also gather our stakeholders’ opinions environmental and financial responsibilities of a business. directly from our Stakeholder consultation and incorporate them into our business operations. 2010 75% Materiality Analysis Criteria 2011 72% (-3%) Criteria Considered Factors · Survey conducted of 38,695 Korean and overseas employees in 2011 Short Term Whether the issue has been reported to Financial Impact management meetings; compliance risk; Media Analysis frequency of internal media coverage In order to identify issues of increasing interest amongst external Internal stakeholders, LGE analyzed 2011 media coverage of the company Internal Policy Existence of policy; employee survey from Korea and overseas. Negative coverage centered mostly on the and Awareness company’s smartphone sales, concerns over the company’s perforIndustry EICC Code of Conduct; Tomorrow’s Value Rating; mance, and fair trade issues (p. 76). Standard DJSI Questionnaire External StakeExpert survey; Stakeholder inquiries (Buyers, External Stakeholder Inquiry External holder Interest Investors, NGOs, etc.); assurance statement Inquiries of CSR issues from external stakeholders are consistently on Social Norms ISO 26000; GRI; United Nations Global Compact the rise, with a total of 49 inquiries made in 2011. Supply chain CSR management policy and corporate performance attracted the most in· EICC: The Electronic Industry Citizenship Coalition terest. LGE is trying its best to provide satisfactory responses to such · Tomorrow’s Value Rating: Corporate Responsibility Rating released by Two Tomorinquires and incorporate them into our business operations by reportrows, a Sustainability Management Expert · DJSI: Dow Jones Sustainability Indexes ing important issues to management. · ISO 26000: International Standard on Social Responsibility · GRI (Global Reporting Initiative): International Standard for Preparing Corporate Inquiring Organization Sustainability Report External Expert Survey 18% In January 2012, we conducted a survey of over 300 Korean and international experts of Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR), requesting 8% them to rate LG Electronics’ CSR efforts, share the CSR issues they total are interested in, and offer their opinions on how we can improve our sustainability report. The results were incorporated into our report 6% 49 68% Buyers cases NGOs and materiality analysis. investors others Sustainability Management Level (Out of 5 Points) 2010 4.1 Key Issues Page No. 2011 3.9 CSR Risk Management 70 71 CSR in Supply Chain 52 54 2012 3.5 CSR Strategy and Management 14 15 Conflict Minerals 55 Emerging Challenges ·Energy efficiency of products ·Development of products meeting Environmental Management System 47 49, 82 ·Use of renewable energy the needs of single-person households Labor Rights/Non-discrimination 69 71 ·Management and recycling of ·Product and technology for the Social Contribution 57 61 waste products abject poor Climate Change 42 46 ·Depletion of natural resources ·Blocking of harmful media content Ethical Management 75 24·2011-2012 LG Electronics Sustainability Report 2011 Materiality Analysis Results The key issues identified through a materiality analysis are illustrated below. Compared to the previous year, such issues as “Fair Trade” and “Protection of Customer Privacy” are gaining weight and issues such as “Conflict Minerals” and “Developing Products for Resolving Community Issues” are emerging. International dialogue on responsible sourcing of minerals from conflict regions is expected to increase in 2012 and the upcoming Rio+20 Earth Summit (June 2012) will further expand discussions on diverse suitability issues. 2010 Results 2011 Materiality matrix Increasing Importance Decreasing Importance 14 22 very 21 14 6 22 important 23 20 20 24 6 23 24 7 21 16 important 11 most 7 important 11 16 1 3 3 9 10 12 4 2 17 stakeholders' 5 concerns 8 8 12 5 10 9 15 1 19 18 2 18 4 17 less important important 19 important 13 13 important very important impact on lg electronics Customer Environment : Employee Supplier Present and Future Generations Fair Marketing 6 Labor Rights Protection 12 Fair Trade 20 Greener Products 1 (Refrain from Exaggerative Advertisements) 13 Win-Win Growth with SMEs Management and Elimination 7 Non-Discrimination 21 of Hazardous Substances within Products Customer Support 2 14 CSR in Supply Chain and Grievance Resolution Fair Evaluation Reduction of Environmental 8 22 and Rewards Impacts in the manufacturing process 3 Product Safety NEW 15 Conflict Minerals 9 Corporate Culture/ 23 Responding to Climate Change Work & Life Balance 4 Privacy Protection Community 24 E-waste take-back and recycling 10 Talent Management 5 Promotion of Sustainable Consumption 11 Occupational Safety and Health 16 Social Contribution 17 Promotion of Local Economy Development of Product NEW 18 and Technology for Resolving Local Issues 19 Communication with and Participation in Local Community Stakeholder Communication | Materiality Analysis ·25 Performance Highlights Customer 2009 2010 2011 Consumer NPS (Net Promotion Score) in Korea (%) 66.9 63.9 56.8 Environment 2009 2010 2011 Percentage of Greener Products (Green 2 Star*) (%) 71 92 GHG Emissions (Scope1, 2) (1,000 tons of CO2e) 1,265 1,300 1,361 Average Score of Overseas Subsidiaries from EESH Audit 83.0 81.5 83.3 Water Use (1,000 ton) 10,210 12,128 12,913 Waste Generation (ton) 130,904 170,421 169,292 Incident Rate (Korea) 0.08 0.05 0.03 Business Partner 2009 2010 2011 Satisfaction score of suppliers 75.0 74.0 76.1 No. of suppliers participated in job training 353 370 No. of suppliers received CSR Audit 4 17 No. of suppliers performed CSR Self-assessment 213 Community 2009 2010 2011 Domestic Donation (KRW billion) 15.6 21.4 10.8 No. of Employees Participated in “Global Volunteer Day” 17,739 15,670 No. of teams in the “Life’s Good Volunteers” program 31 53 Employee 2009 2010 2011 Percentage of female employees (%) 29.2 26.7 28.3 Percentage of overseas employees (%) 65.2 64.8 61.2 Training hours per office employee (hrs.) 50 56 62 Creativity & Autonomy index from the LG Way Survey 67 77 75 Jeong-Do Management 2009 2010 2011 No. of employees Received Jeong-Do Management Training 14,700 18,873 18,446 No. of reports submitted 446 448 464 * Percentage of products with Green 2 star, which is based on the evaluation of the Eco-Index. The Eco-Index is LGE’s own environmental performance rating system. (See p. 35) 26·2011-2012 LG Electronics Sustainability Report Customer I believe that engaging with potential customers is the first step towards building a loyal customer base and passionate brand spokesperson. Personally, communication, or lack thereof, has a great impact on making purchasing decisions; brand marketing that provokes emotions and creates a personal connection is particularly effective. As for product quality, LG Electronics has an impeccable reputation and has gained a great level of loyalty from customers based on that. In addition to high-end product offerings, I have never had to use after sales service, which is a great testament to LGE’s product quality. Still, I feel like LGE should make greater efforts to reach potential customers. A great brand like LGE has great stories to tell, not just about inRandy Abels dividual products but also the inspiration for new innovations and the passion behind them. I would love to Power Blogger hear what drove LGE to the brand it is today, making innovations and introducing great products one after (www.switchup.nl) another. Customer | Communication with Customers·27 Communication with Customers exciting brand image in the global market. OUR APPROACH With the Korean Wave and K-Pop popularity reaching every corner of the world, LGE has also been engaging in “Korean Wave” marketing, • Strengthen global brand identity sponsoring K-Pop concert tours in overseas markets. Brand benefit: Enriching lives through technology As part of its effort to strengthen the company’s positioning in the 3D Brand foundation: Innovation and Smart TV markets, LGE has been featuring “3D Game Zone” in Brand attributes: Stylish design, Smart technology various events, including the CES, and sponsored the world’s largest • Customize marketing for local markets utilizing “Life’s Good” game festival BlizzCon in 2011. • Increase brand trust through responsible marketing communication Communication for Product Development LGE is conducting a thorough market and customer analysis to introOUR PERFORMANCE duce products that satisfy customer needs. A close study of local customers’ lifestyles and collaboration with local research organizations Strategic Brand Communication are also part of our effort to identify customer needs. LG Electronics’ brand slogan “Life’s Good” conveys a message that LGE enriches customers’ lives with its products, services and techAir Conditioner Preventing Endemic Diseases · In 2009, LGE develnology, and creates a unique brand identity of the company. We are oped an air conditioner model that can prevent dengue fever, one of engaging in various marketing activities to reinforce the corporate the most prevalent endemic diseases in the South East Asian region. brand identity in the global market while establishing a youthful and Dengue fever is a virus-caused disease that is spread by mosquitoes dynamic brand image with differentiated brand marketing activities with symptoms including a sudden high fever. Developed through a utilizing sports, the Korean Wave, video games, etc. joint two-year effort with an Indonesian agricultural college, the air Since 2009, LGE has partnered with the F1TM franchise, the world’s conditioner produces ultrasound, repelling mosquitoes or at least pregreatest auto racing competition with some 600 million audience venting them from attacking humans. In September 2009, LGE supmembers from over 180 countries, and is establishing a youthful and plied the anti-dengue fever air conditioners to government agencies, schools and hospitals in Pakistan, which was enduring a dengue fever 1 2 outbreak that infected over 5,000 people, and provided support for local research on the dengue virus. In 2008, the company also developed an air conditioner model that prevents Avian Influenza (AI) with a sterilization function. Robotic Vacuum Cleaner with Home Monitoring Function · To ease the minds of working parents, LGE developed a robotic vacuum cleaner with a home monitoring function (Mom’s View). This allows users to 3 4 monitor their children or pets at home from work or during a business trip. Developed through an eight month joint R&D effort with LG U+, 1 F1TM global partner (2011 Korea Grand 2 Korean Wave Marketing utilizing K-POP Prix, Yeongam, South Jeolla Province) 4 3D Game Zone at the CES event 3 Ad for a Korean Wave concert on LGE’s LED billboard at the New York Air Conditioner Preventing Endemic Robotic Vacuum Cleaner with Home Times Square Diseases Monitoring Function LG ROBO CYKING Global Video Competition Featuring video clips created by customers in overseas advertisements and online campaigns For the month of December in 2011, LGE held the “ROBO CYKING Global Video Competition”, inviting ROBO CYKING users worldwide to create a video clip featuring the robotic vacuum cleaner. The grand prize went to a Ukrainian contestant who received 25% of online votes. The video showed a pair of eyes constantly following the mother, which later turned out to be a ROBO CYKING, not her baby. Viewers responded enthusiastically to the humorous twist and beautifully shot images. The winning work will be featured in the international edition of ROBO CYKING advertisement and online campaign. LGE plans to continue to explore diverse ways for consumers to participate in marketing promotions for home appliance products. 28·2011-2012 LG Electronics Sustainability Report 1 1 Refrigerator with locking device for 1 Indian consumers 1 Smart TV Forum Participated by 2 Refrigerator with red coloring for LG Smart TV Lab Chinese consumers 2/3 Open Communication between 3 Slim refrigerator for Russian the BLOGer and the Management consumers of MC Company 2 3 2 3 this product combines a robotic vacuum cleaner with IP cameras, a Customer Insight Marketing Communication smartphone and a PC. Now, users not only can monitor what is going LGE is organizing events and engaging in campaigns with diverse on at home but can also have a chat with their children. themes and concepts tailored to local customers, improving LGE’s brand image in the global market and contributing to revenue growth. Refrigerators Customized for Local Consumer Needs · Based on the insight that culture and lifestyle varies from country to country, LGE Glocalization of Customer Insight Marketing developed refrigerators customized to meet the needs of local conRegion Activity sumers, and generated a great response in the process. For Indian households who often retain servants and maids, we introduced West Africa “Dream with LG” Campaign A joint program with Lagos refrigerator models with a simpler design and a locking device to preSubsidiary National University, LGE established an IT program and vent theft. For Chinese consumers, we introduced refrigerator models offers scholarship and training opportunities to excellent with red coloring, a color highly favored by local consumers. Also in students. Russia, LGE introduced longer and narrower models to increase convenience for tall Russian consumers. Morocco LG Cup Africa 2011 An invitational soccer competition with Subsidiary participants from four African nations, hosted in conjunction with marketing promotions. Prosumer Marketing that Facilitates Customer Participation · LGE inFriendly Soccer Match for LG Dealers A soccer match vites customer participation from the product development phase and between dealers and sales people and the subsidiary memis running a prosumer marketing program for each product. bers designed to build teamwork and increase loyalty. In January 2011, LG Smart TV Lab, a smart TV prosumer group, was launched. Comprised of 20 IT professionals and power bloggers inDubai LG 3D Party A marketing promotion event during the busivited by LGE, the group is helping the company to develop a smart Subsidiary est shopping season. Provides opportunity to experience TV with useful features and applications, testing the product before its latest LGE products such as CINEMA 3D and Smart TV, and release. By actively incorporating LG Smart TV Lab members (endearalso hosts a 3D game championship. ingly referred to as “consumer engineers”), LGE plans to introduce customer-centric smart TV. The members are also promoting LG Smart TV on their blogs and the LGE website, satisfying curiosity of consumResponsible Marketing Communication ers and sharing useful information based on their first-hand experiIn 2009, LGE established and distributed “Code of Conduct” by which ence with the product. employees across the company are expected to abide to create value Also, a TROMM washing machine prosumer group TROMMIZ, was for stakeholders, including customers, shareholders, suppliers, comlaunched in 2009. Comprised of housewife bloggers, the group is munities, etc., and is conducting training on its purpose and intent. participating in product planning for a wide range of home appliances The LGE Code of Conduct stresses that employees must act with including washing machines. They also make suggestions and write integrity and exhibit the utmost sincerity in the following four areas: product reviews on various online channels, serving as a conduit for responsible marketing, product safety, product standards and proteccommunication between consumers and LGE. tion of customer privacy. In 2011, we amended our Code of Conduct to In March 2011, an open communication session between LGE commuinclude clauses on the safety defect reporting system and precautions nication partner “The BLOGer” and the management from MC (Mobile to take when handling refurbished products, while strengthening relCommunication) Company was held. The event was organized to colevant clauses to enforce responsible communication with customers. lect frank opinions on LGE mobile phones from 19 members of the Additionally, we are complying with the laws and regulations related group and incorporate their suggestions into product development. to marketing communication activities such as advertisement, promoGoing forward, MC Company plans to organize a monthly session for tion and sponsorship, while implementing preventative measures and direct communication with customers. making voluntary improvements. Customer | Communication with Customers·29 Code of Conduct_ Responsible Marketing Social Media Portal “Social LGE” Online Communication through Social Media In 2009, LG Electronics launched its official corporate blog, “The BLOG” as a means to communicate with customers on major issues. FUTURE DIRECTION Additionally, it allows users to freely write posts on the site, a first for a Korean business, and facilitated two-way communication in its true • Establish a consistent Brand Identity (BI) in the global market meaning. LGE’s Twitter and Facebook accounts are becoming great • Strengthen open communication with customers channels to collect the real voice of our customers. We are utilizing the Incorporate customer suggestions into product development and Twitter account not only as a channel to field customers’ inquiries in marketing communication efforts real time but also as a forum for LGE members and customers to exImprove brand integrity with responsible marketing and change ideas and brainstorm. communication, particularly in product safety From our Facebook page, we live broadcasted events such as the Engage customers in open communication utilizing social media Consumer Electronics Show (CES) and the Mobile World Congress (MWC) to viewers all over the world. Customers responded to the live cast with real-time posts, sharing information and discussing new products. In March 2012, LGE launched a social media portal “Social LGE (http:// social.lge.co.kr)” that provides integrated access to all LGE’s social media outlets – Blog, Twitter and Facebook. “Social LGE” also offers access to Blogs, Twitter accounts and Facebook pages independently run by overseas subsidiaries in their respective countries, providing greater access to LGE’s social media channels. The social media portal also features expert columns by opinion leaders from such areas as IT and culture and new articles about LGE by LGE members. Additionally, the site offers an open forum for facilitating open communication, allowing visitors to write substantially long posts, as well as quickly identify and engage in discussions (a first for corporate blogs). Based on our philosophy which strongly emphasizes customer engagement, LGE will make every effort to maintain open and genuine communication with customers utilizing social media outlets. Communication with Customers utilizing Social Media Customer Engagement Program Donation Campaign Linked with Utilizing Social Media Social Media One of the customers following LGE’s For the month of December 2011, LGE Twitter account sent soy milk, rice cakes ran a famine related quiz event “Hunand some fruits to an LGE bestshop ger IQ” on its official Facebook page manager as a token of appreciation. To and overseas Facebook pages, includrepay such kind gestures of appreciaing those in the U.S. and Russia. LGE tion, LGE is making greater efforts to made a one dollar donation for each engage customers through social media, organizing events such as “100 participant providing a correct answer and sent a certification of donation to people relay”, “Picnic with Twitter followers”, and “Invitation to movie pretheir Facebook page. LGE is happy to help in spreading the spirit of sharing mieres”, etc. through such events. 30·2011-2012 LG Electronics Sustainability Report Product Quality and Safety and development to sales, this system only allows shipment of prodOUR APPROACH ucts that clear all seven quality gates. Under the quality gate system, all LGE products undergo a safety check at each quality gate based on • Secure product quality and safety a checklist, preventing shipments of products with quality or safety Strengthen the product quality and safety management system issues. We also facilitate a corporate-wide exchange between quality Foster product quality and safety experts and safety experts, such as the Product Liability Technology Council. Introduce the “Quality Sheriff” and “Quality Report” programs • Respond to global Product Liability (PL) issues Product Quality and Safety Experts Cultivation · In 2011, LGE conduct• Secure leadership in technology standards to enable ed both online and offline training programs that emphasize the CEO’s quality innovations strong commitment towards product quality and safety management, and offers training on quality management and the Product Liability Law. A total of 29,560 individuals completed this program. The HE Company operates the Global Learning Solution (GLS) proOUR PERFORMANCE gram, which is designed to enable locally hired employees to develop job-specific capabilities, with program tracks available in production technology, procurement, materials and product quality. This program Securing Product Quality and Safety was established in 2006 to secure the world’s top quality production Our Vision for Product Quality · Reflecting the CEO’s strong commitcompetitiveness. In 2011, a total of 59 employees received training in ment towards product quality, LG Electronics has reinforced orgafour tracks including production cost management and quality sysnizations related to product quality and is striving to provide differtem evaluation. entiated value and quality to customers by adhering to basics. With the vision of an “LGE recognized by customers for the world’s best 2011 Product Quality Training for Employees (Korea) product quality”, we will create a culture that does not tolerate any Category Quality Training for Managers For Non-managerial Staff quality issues, no matter how insignificant, based upon the collective agreement that we strive for perfect product quality with absolutely For Business Unit and Team Leaders Production Staff Office Staff no compromises. Also, we are pushing forward with corporate-wide Method Called to the site Called to the site Online efforts to improve product quality and renewing our commitment toNumber wards product safety, all in an effort to provide safer, superior quality 1,285 7,146 21,129 Completed products to customers. Stronger Quality Management Accountability · LGE strengthened and “Product Quality Sheriff” and “Product Quality Report” Programs expanded its product safety management into a three-tier system that The HA Company has introduced the “Product Quality Sheriff” prostarts from business units and moves upward to business companies gram at production sites in Korea and overseas to perform onsite and then to HQ with a strong emphasis on the accountability of busiquality management. A “Quality Sheriff” inspects the entire producness units and also introduced a safety evaluation system including tion process, from the beginning of production to packing, issues regular self-assessments. In 2011, LGE established the Product Testing a warning sticker against instances causing compromised product Laboratory under the Quality Center to test the safety of new prodquality or noncompliance with basic standards, and can even halt the ucts, detect quality issues and address them in advance. Additionproduction or product shipment. This program was first introduced on ally, we created a product quality and safety evaluation system that August 2011 in China (Taizhou, Nanjing, and Tianjin) and later expandperforms basic quality and safety evaluation for products at every ed to six more countries (India, Indonesia, Thailand, Russia, Poland production stage. Consisting of seven stages from product planning and Mexico). Product Quality and Safety Assessment System Consumer Selection of Supplier Quality Assurance Environment Analysis Gate from Supplier Parts Supply Quality Assurance Gate for Parts Shipment/ Concept Planning Project Planning Design Verification Product Verification Production Sales & Distribution Gate Gate Gate Gate Gate Verification by Verification by Quality Evaluation for Development Quality Assurance Quality Assurance Chief Engineer Chief Engineer Quality Assurance for Development for Development for Mass Production Customer | Product Quality and Safety·31 Additionally, the HA Company is operating the “Product Quality Rereceived the Presidential Award on World Standard Day 2011 from port” program so that any employee can report quality related issues the Korea Agency for Technology and Standards (an affiliate of the from the production, sales and marketing processes and make sugMinistry of Knowledge Economy) for making great contributions to gestions on improving the quality management system and processes. national competitiveness in technology. In May 2011, delegations from the African Organization for StandardGlobal PL (Product Liability) Response ization (ARSO) and standardization agency leaders from eight African countries visited LG HQ and the MC Standardization Testing Lab Australia: Voluntary Recall and Notification of Refrigerator · From located at Gasan R&D Campus, benchmarking the company’s stanJanuary 2002 to February 2006, LG Electronics Australia Sales Subdardization work and response to regulations. LGE introduced its insidiary (LGEAP) conducted a voluntary recall of some 39,000 side-bynovation cases for standardization process, technology and standard side refrigerators sold in the country. Although only two out of 39,000 certification and response to regulations and agreed to cooperate on refrigerators recalled were found to have an issue, the recall was technology standardization and quality management to help promote initiated based on a strict internal policy on product quality and LGE’s African industries. strong commitment towards quality management. The issue at hand was possible corrosion of a micro switch inside the refrigerator model from the combined effect of salty moisture in the air (a large number of Australian cities are located in coastal areas) and the relatively high Excellence in Life Safety Achievements in 2011 voltage level (240 volts) in Australia. LGEAP took proactive actions to inform customers about the recall in On February 28, 2011, LGE was progress, including an ad notifying the voluntary recall in major daily honored by the Korean Society for Quality Management and the news papers throughout the country, and ensured replacement of deDong-A Ilbo for showing Excelfective parts. lence in Life Safety Achievements in 2011. The only Korean electronics Korea: Special Inspection Service for Air Conditioners · For the manufacturer honored at the event, months of October and November 2011, LGE performed a special LGE was recognized for achieving inspection service for 45,000 air conditioner units sold in 2011 to adexcellence in product quality, clarity dress the issue concerning white dust generated during operation. of safety instructions, responsible after sales services and reliability. The LGE service engineers visited customers at home, thoroughly checked company was praised particularly for its activities to reduce customer the unit air purification filters, refrigerant pressure, installation, etc. complaints, customer-centric phrasing of safety warnings and voluntary and replaced heat exchanger components when necessary. actions to resolve customer grievances. Leadership in Global Technology Standardization for Quality Innovation Standardization facilitates productivity, along with product quality increases and greater consumer protection. In turn, the market expands, enabling new technology development and sales increases. That is why businesses in the ITC and electrical and electronics segments are making every effort to acquire international standards with FUTURE DIRECTION their cutting edge technology to gain a competitive edge. Based on the belief that global standard technology leads to the • Continue to foster product quality and safety experts world’s best quality, LGE has Standardization Managers at its fifty or • Standardize LGE’s global PL (Product Liability) response so overseas subsidiaries to respond to international regulations and execute standardization efforts. LGE standardization managers manage and share information on international regulations and standards in real-time through an internal database and information management system, and actively participates in international efforts for establishing technology standards. LGE is leading the international effort to establish the 4th Generation Wireless Communication (LTE, Long Term Evolution) Standards and 1 2 3 1 “Product Quality Sheriff” Program 2 Received the Presidential Award on World Standard Day (Standardization) 3 Forum for Korea-Africa Cooperation on Standardization 32·2011-2012 LG Electronics Sustainability Report Customer Satisfaction & After Sales Service assess customer satisfaction at each stage of service and performs OUR APPROACH comparative analysis of customer satisfaction levels against those offered by our competitors. • Improve repair service quality by expanding LGE-controlled service infrastructure Enhancing Customer Service and Repair Service Capabilities • Provide greater value to customers through “Voice of Customer Competency Evaluation and Service Maestro Program · LGE conducts (VOC) Management,” which emphasizes the value of customer a competency evaluation of its service and call center employees comments and suggestions twice a year, examining their technical skills, customer engagement • Enhance customer service and repair service capabilities skills, job knowledge, etc. to provide a comprehensive assessment • Upgrade global service quality by developing differentiated service of their competency in performing services. Based on the results, programs and implementing them globally Service Maestros are selected from employees who have been with the company for five years or longer and maintain a grade of “high” in competency evaluations for two straight years. Grand Service OUR PERFORMANCE Maestros are also selected from Service Maestros who have received the top prizes (Minister or Gold Prize) in the annual LGE Service Skill Olympics, following a formal review process. Providing Greater Value to Customers through “VOC Management” Since February 2007, LG Electronics has been consistently striving to improve and strengthen its VOC system, and leveraging it as a useful management tool for quickly identifying customer wants and needs. Every year, LGE collects over 190,000 comments and suggestions from worldwide customers through diverse contact channels, including the corporate website and call center, and manages them to create greater value. Since October 2011, we have also been interacting with our customers through LGE’s official blog “THE BLOG” and social networking sites such as Facebook and Twitter. LGE takes its commitment Global Service Academy in Indonesia Service Skill Olympics to customer satisfaction a step further, placing strong emphasis on service improvement, establishing performance targets for VOC management in advance, and implementing proactive service improveGlobal Service Academy · LGE has established the Global Service ment measures to meet all targets. Academy to strengthen and systematically manage its service training From April 2007, LGE’s top executives, including our CEO, are taking programs for overseas employees. Initially established in Thailand in time to review recorded conversations between customer service rep2011, a total of 16 Global Service Academies are currently in operation resentatives and callers in top management meetings, all part of our in 11 countries, including South Africa, China (Guangzhou), Russia, effort to improve VOC intelligence and help the company’s top execuJordan and Indonesia. tives identify customer needs and fast-track them into product planning, marketing and services. LG Electronics Service Skill Olympics · The 11th LGE Service Skill In addition, LGE analyzes the strengths and weakness of our customer Olymics was held in November 2011. Established to promote the comservice at each customer contact point, utilizing the Net Promoter pany’s widely trusted service capability and improve technical skills Score (NPS), which compiles a Customer Satisfaction Index (CSI) to of service engineers, the event provides an opportunity for service Customer Comments in 2011 Service Knowledge Transfer 3.2% 2.0% In April 2011, LGE launched the 4.1% 4.2% “Global Service Training by Ser5.0% vice Maestro” program to transfer 5.1% 31.8% LGE Korea’s outstanding service Customer capability to overseas subsidiaries. 5.6% Comments in 2011 A total of 24 service Maestros have 6.2% conducted service training in 29 countries, helping to elevate the 18.5% service capability of LGE global “Global Service Training by Service 14.3% subsidiaries by sharing their practiMaestro” Program cal repair know-how and customer Dissatisfaction with Marketing and sales Emotional dissatisfaction repair service quality related Dissatisfaction with call service best practices from Korea. Service Maestros will be dispatched to Product quality Insufficient explanation center service 40 countries to conduct training in 2012. They will also undergo relevant Dissatisfaction with following repair service Repair costs training prior to assuming their important role in providing customer serservice appointment Suggestions Others vice training and sharing region-specific repair know-how. punctuality Service program Customer | Customer Satisfaction & After Sales Service·33 engineers who excel in each product group to compete and showcase 2,025 types of components, significantly improving customer satisfactheir skills. In this year’s competition involving 39 engineers from five tion with our ongoing effort to expand product offerings and quality product groups (electronics, electrical, air conditioner, mobile phone services, including next-day delivery and rapid response to customer and PC), Seung Tae Kim from the West Daejeon Service Center (mobile inquiries. phone group) won the top honor the Minister of Employment and Labor Prize. China: “Feel-Safe” SMS Service · Our “Feel-Safe” SMS service comforts female and elderly customers by sending photos and perDifferentiated Service Programs sonal information regarding service engineers via SMS prior to schedIn order to increase customer satisfaction and gain greater trust from uled service calls. customers, LG Electronics is making an ongoing effort to improve its global service quality with differentiated service programs and global Indonesia: Customer Care Service · LGE keeps its promises to implementation of these initiatives. customers at every stage of service, from booking service appointments immediately upon requisition to completing service calls within Korea: Smart Care, Smart Service · In response to newly emergone day (24 hours) of request, and accomplishing repairs within one ing smart environments, LGE has established an optimal smart serhour. From February 2012, we also provide “Visiting Bus Service.” vice platform that supports diverse smart devices, including smartCustomers are provided with prompt and precise service from three phones and tablet PCs. In addition to our smart service platform, we service engineers on each bus, and a service consultant offers detailed are offering self-diagnostic tools, supporting images and video clips to information on LGE products and services. Customers can enjoy prodimprove user convenience and help customers resolve repair issues. ucts and services such as 3D TV, smartphones, Wi-Fi, etc. while waitWe have also introduced “Smart Care” QR code to provide greater ing. LGE’s carefully designed customer service programs are highly convenience and guide our customers to optimal after-sales service esteemed as a perfect fit for consumers from a nation with the fourth options. Now customers can scan a “smart care” QR code on 274 key largest population in the world. LGE product models with their smartphones and directly access useful information, such as user manuals, upgrade information, etc., on U.K.: Weekend Repair Service · LGE delivers customer satisfacour mobile website. Customers can also make a request for service tion with weekend repair services to provide greater convenience to consultation or repair service instantly when they have an issue with customers – working couples, singles, etc., who are unable to receive a product. services on weekdays. In July 2007, LGE implemented speech-recognition technology to better assist customers contacting the call center. The new ARS directly connects customers with a service representative who specializes in the product at issue, drastically cutting the time and steps required to receive assistance. We have also established a remote service system for smartphones and PCs to offer greater convenience to customers with busy schedules, and a precision repair and consultation service. With this system, our service representatives can remotely access FUTURE DIRECTION customers’ mobile phones or PCs online and provide technical assistance to customers, eliminating the need for a visit to a service center. • Secure competitiveness by establishing and expanding efficient Additionally, in March 2011, LGE launched a website (www.lgservice. service infrastructure co.kr) that supplies expendable components, offering greater con• Provide faster and closer service with more powerful smart service venience and access to after-sales services. Currently the site carries • Establish service infrastructure in emerging markets such as Africa 1 2 3 1/2 A product QR code and the responding website 3 “Feel-Safe SMS Service” in China 4 5 6 4 “Visiting Bus Service” in Indonesia 5/6 “Weekend Repair Service” in U.K. 34·2011-2012 LG Electronics Sustainability Report Environment The 2011 LG Electronics Sustainability Report clearly shows that the company is fully aware of the environmental challenges that businesses are facing nowadays. More importantly, LGE takes a comprehensive approach towards environmental challenges and covers a broad range of issues such as waste recycling as a preparation for resource depletion along with greenhouse gas reduction and hazardous substance management. This shows that LGE is acting responsibly and implementing comprehensive measures to address environmental issues. Even if a business makes great strides in addressing environmental challenges, its efforts would not have much meaning unless consumers are keenly aware of such facts and the issues are a matter of great concern for them. In this regard, LGE’s consistent efforts to engage customers has been exceptional, leading to the company’s receipt of the Green Purchasing Network Korea’s “Green Product of the Year Award” for two consecutive years in 2011. No matter how energy efficient a refrigerator might become, the total energy consumption rises commensurate with product capacity increases. This troubled us while we were evaluatDuk Seung Lee ing many different refrigerator models. This year’s winning refrigerator model from LGE (Model R-B315JBJ), President, however, delivered both satisfaction and delight to customers by improving energy efficiency of small to The Green Purchasing Network Korea/ medium size refrigerators. Chairman, In order to overcome the worldwide environmental crisis, we all have to make changes. I hope this year’s The Standing Committee, sustainability report will initiate a meaningful dialogue between LGE and its stakeholders, and ultimately Green Consumer Network in Korea make a great impact on protecting the environment and facilitating corporate sustainability. Environment | Greener Products·35 Greener Products Green Product Rating System OUR APPROACH Eco Index · The Eco Index is LGE’s unique system for rating how “green” a product is and translating its eco design performance into • Continue to introduce greener products quantifiable measures. The index is utilized for managing environ• Increase the carbon disclosure of each product category mental performance of products and establishing management goals. • Research and develop an efficient take-back process by regions, All LGE products meet environmental regulations of the major marin order to facilitate effective take-back of E-waste kets including the EU, the United States, Korea and Japan (RoHS1), • Strengthen green partnerships with suppliers REACH2), etc.), which is translated as “Green 1 Star” of the Eco Index. Products showing greater environmental performance are rated Green 2 Star and Green 3 Star and are managed accordingly. LGE has established rating criteria for the Eco Index based on the OUR PERFORMANCE three strategic areas for green product development (Human, Energy and Resources) and incorporates those criteria into developing greenGreen Product Strategy er products. Thanks to its efforts in achieving high energy efficiency, LG Electronics considers reducing environmental impact on the earth the company increased the share of products rated Green 2 Star to and its people through eco design as a viable and effective strategy 92% in 2011 from 71% in 2010 and Green 3 Star to 45% in 2011 from for product development. LGE aims to develop “Greener” products 17% in the previous year. LGE will continue to work on increasing by considering their environmental impact throughout the product product offerings that attain higher Eco Index. value chain. As such, we have divided our green product development direction into three areas – human, energy and resources, and estabLife Cycle Assessment (LCA) · Regulated by the ISO 14040 series stanlished increasing energy efficiency, using less resources and replacing dards, the LCA is a technique to assess and quantify environmental hazardous substances as our eco design principles. impacts associated with all the stages of a product's life cycle (from Green Product Strategy click Eco Index Ratings Green Product Strategy Green 3 Star • Meets Green 2 Star Criteria • Meets the Internal Standard Established for High Energy Efficiency Strategy Hazardous Substances Management Green 2 Star • Meets Green 1 Star Criteria ·Reduce use of heavy metals • Meets LGE’s Internal Standard Equivalent to ·Phase out certain hazardous materials Energy Star HUMAN M or e En Green 1 Star • Meets the Local Environmental Home Environment er gy Regulations and the Criteria for ·Decrease noise and vibration Ef fic Relevant Environmental Labels ien t and Certifications • Meets LGE’s Internal Standard for Each Market Energy Efficiency Enhancement Greener Product ·Reduce power consumption ·Reduce stand-by power Year-on-Year Comparisons of Green Product Development (Accumulated) ENERGY CO2 Emissions Reduction 2010 ·Use renewable energy 2011 100% 100% ·Reduce CO2 emissions through 92% product life cycle 71% 45% Resource Reduction 17% ·Reduce product weight/volume ·Use recycled material RESOURCES Recyclability Improvement Rating: Green 3 Star Green 2 Star Green 1 Star ·Use recyclable material 1) RoHS (Restriction of the use of Hazardous Substances in EEE): Guidelines on the ·Design for easy disassembly Use of Hazardous Substances in Electrical and Electronic Equipment 2) REACH (Registration, Evaluation, Authorization and restriction of CHemicals) 36·2011-2012 LG Electronics Sustainability Report production through distribution, use, and disposal), as well as to idenas PVC1) and BFRs2) (which are believed to have negative impacts on tify areas for improvement and verify progress. the environment) once safety and reliability tests have been completSince 2002, LG Electronics has been striving to quantify the environed. mental impacts of all its product categories in all stages of their life In 2007, LGE began to gradually ban the use of halogen (Br, Cl) in cycles and minimize their carbon footprint. In 2011, the company built mobile phone parts. Since 2010, we have been using replacement of the Life Cycle Inventory Database (LCI DB) for eight product categories PVC and BFRs in all newly developed mobile phones. We have also (TV, monitor, washing machine, refrigerator, LED, solar panel, mobile replaced PVC and BFRs from encasements, parts of circuitry compophone and commercial air conditioning system), and plans to utilize nents, and parts used in all laptop models released in 2011 and are the data base in the product life cycle assessment. Based on the asin the process of replacing LCD TV parts and components containing sessment results, we identify the weak link from a product life cycle PVC and BFRs. From 2011, PVC replacements are used for some combased on quantitative data and determine measures for improveponents in residential air conditioners and we are expanding the apments (replacing material, increasing energy efficiency, etc.). LGE plication of replacements to other models. Please visit our website for plans to perform LCA on all key products on a regular basis. more information on this issue. Management of Hazardous Substances click Voluntary Replacement of Hazardous Substances Carbon Label LGE complies with international regulations on hazardous substances, Korea RoHS and REACH. Although some substances are not currently reguCarbon Footprint Label LGE encourages and facilitates its customers’ lated, we are in the process of voluntarily replacing substances such efforts to lead low carbon lifestyles by measuring the carbon footprint of a product (the total amount of carbon emissions associated with Replacement of Hazardous Substances the product’s life cycle) and informing consumers how much GHG is emitted when they use a particular product. Additionally, we are Product Performance making phased efforts to reduce GHG emissions associated with our Mobile PVC: Not used in any new product models from January 2010 business operations. Thanks to its voluntary disclosure of carbon footPhone BFRs: Not used in any new product models from January 2010, prints, LGE acquired the “Carbon Footprint Label” for 24 products and except for a few models using IC transistors, etc. six components from the Korea Environmental Industry and TechnolBeryllium and Phthalate: Started using parts that do not contain ogy Institute, the industry’s best performance in this area (As of Februberyllium and phthalate in mobile phones in 2011 ary 29, 2012). More Details on LGE's Carbon Labels click TV PVC and BFRs: In the process of replacing PVC and BFRs used Low-Carbon Products Most noteworthy, LGE’s side-by-side refrigerain parts, starting from cabinet through bracket, back cover, tor (Model R-T751EBHSL) and washing machine (Model FR3228WA) pedestal, etc. acquired the “Low Carbon Certification”, a designation given to products which achieve even greater performance in carbon emissions Laptop PVC and BFRs: Replaced PVC and BFRs from housings of all reduction compared to products with the “Carbon Footprint Label”. product models released in 2011. Replacement is in progress, Currently, LGE is establishing a system that will enable the efficient starting from CPU through main chipset, LCD, hard disk drive assessment and improvement in carbon footprints of all its products. (HDD), optical disk drive (ODD), memory, webcam, LAN, parts To this end, we will utilize an internal IT system (CCMS)1) to regularly for micro circuits, etc. measure GHG emissions associated with production, logistics, use Air PVC: Replaced PVC from drain pipes for the indoor unit of Conditioner residential air conditioners developed in 2011 1 2 (Released in Korea in 2012). 1) PVC (Polyvinyl Chloride): A kind of thermo plastic, also known as polyvinyl chloride 1 R-T751EBHSL and polyvinyl chloride resin, containing heavy metals such as phthalate (an environ(Certified in February 2012) mental hormone), lead and cadmium. 2 FR3228WA 2) BFRs (Brominated Flame Retardants): Mainly used as a chemical flame retardant for (Certified in December 2011) plastics and textiles and one of the most well-known persistent organic pollutants. Increasing the Reliability of Internal Energy Performance Rating · LG Energy Assurance Program (LEAP) In order to improve the credibility of the internal energy performance rating, LGE has established the LG Energy Assurance Program. As part of this initiative, we signed an MOU in 2010 with certification agencies UL, Intertek and CSA for tripartite certification of energy performance and have been making efforts to further improve internal testing reliability by cross-checking the internal test results with those from third-party test labs for a variety of product groups. LGE will strive to increase the accuracy and reliability of the internal energy performance rating with the LG Energy Assurance Program. Product Energy Assurance click Environment | Greener Products·37 and disposal of each product model, and systematically manage the Water Label relevant database. Based on this effort, we also plan to develop low U.K.: Waterwise As part of its effort to reduce energy and recarbon products to reduce overall GHG emissions associated with our source consumption of products, LGE has been working to develop business operations. technology to enhance the water-use efficiency of its washing machines and dishwashers. Overseas In recognition of such efforts, the U.K. based NGO Waterwise named Europe: Carbon Trust The Carbon Trust helps businesses measuLGE’s Drum washing machine (Model F1495BDS) utilizing the Dual re carbon emissions associated with their products and also provides Injection Spray technology3) and the True Steam Technology4) incorpoa label of the carbon footprint for these products. With the label, rated dishwasher (Model D1454BF) as “the Most Water Efficient Prodconsumers can check the carbon footprint of a particular product and uct” in November 2011. make purchasing decisions that facilitate carbon reduction. In June 2011, two product models of LG CINEMA 3D TV (Model 1 2 47LW5500-ZE (European), 47LW550T-ZE (British)) became the first TV products released and sold in the European market to acquire the “Carbon Reduction Label” from the U.K.’s Carbon Trust. 1 F1495BDS 2 D1454BF 47LW5500-ZE U.S.: Carbon Free The Carbon Free Product Certification verifies the GHG emissions associated with a product’s life cycle and provides certification to products offering carbon offsetting and GHG reduction (Certification Agency: Carbon Fund). In 2011, LGE acquired the “CarbonFree” certification for ten of its product models, a first for a Korean company. Consumers who purchase products with the “CarbonFree” certification indirectly contribute to reducing GHG emissions. The combined carbon reductions from ten LG product models are estimated at around 90,000 tons annually. Product Model Certification Date Drum Washing Machine TROMM (WM3875H) July 2011 LED LCD TV (42LV5500-UA) July 2011 LED LCD Monitor (D2770P) July 2011 DIOS Refrigerator (GR-L318LSJP) July 2011 Solar Panel (LG260S1C·LG255S1C·LG250S1C·LG245S1C) July 2011 LED Lighting (LB08D827L0A.BASIS) July 2011 Mobile Phone (LG L45C·LG-LN272) August 2011 Multi-V System Air Conditioner (LGE ARUN072DT3) October 2011 Vacuum Cleaner (LGE LuV350P) October 2011 Gas Oven Range (LDG3016ST·LDG3015ST·LDG3015SB· October 2011 LDG3015SW) 1) CCMS (Corporate Carbon Management System): LGE’s IT system that manages GHG emissions and PCF (Product Carbon Footprint) of each product 2) The carbon emissions associated with the entire lifecycle of all ten product models certified as “CarbonFree” multiplied by the estimated sales volume of those products in the North American market of the year. The sales volume is estimated annually starting from the time of certification and renewed every year. 3) Dual-Injection Technology: A technology for performing disinfection and wrinkle removal without hot water wash by simultaneously injecting liquid detergent and hot steam 4) TrueSteam™ Technology: A technology for reducing water use in dishwashers. It eliminates the need for pre-wash cycle by using hot steam over 95°C instead of water. 38·2011-2012LG 38·2011-2012 LGElectronics ElectronicsSustainability SustainabilityReport Report ENERGY STAR Most Efficient 2011 CINEMA 3D TV French Door Refrigerator “55LW5700” “LFC21776” Smart Energy Saving Plus LG Electronics’ Smart Energy Saving Plus Saving Energy Bills with Linear Compressor Technology LG’s Linear technology allows users to reduce power consumption with a built-in powCompressor Technology reduces power consumption by adjusting the er save option, which adjusts the brightness and contrast depending upon compressor speed and rotation based on the volume of food and temperathe lighting condition in a room. This model is the only 55 inch TV named ture inside the refrigerator. as ENERGY STAR Most Efficient 2011. Battery-free 3D Glasses Employing the FPR technology1), CINEMA 3D glasses offer brighter and clearer image quality compared to Shutter Glasses. As LG's CINEMA 3D glasses are free of circuitries, they generate no harmful electromagnetic waves and are easy to recycle. Annual Energy Use of 55LW5700 (kWh) Unit: kWh Annual Energy Use of LFC21776 (kWh) Unit: kWh 204 572 Uses 40% Less Energy Uses 30% Less Energy 400 123 Energy Star Standard2) 55LW5700 Federal Standard3) LFC21776 Environment | Greener Products·39 환경 | 고객만족활동 및 A/S·39 ENERGY STAR is an international standard established by the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) of the United States for energy efficient consumer products. The Energy Star Service Mark is placed on products meeting the standard. Among those that qualify for the ENERGY STAR, the top 5% most efficient products are designated as ENERGY STAR Most Efficient. In 2011, 406 LG product models, including TVs, refrigerators, washing machines, etc. earned the Energy Star Service Mark and among those that qualified, eight TV models, two refrigerator models and three washing machine models were certified as ENERGY STAR Most Efficient 2011. LG Electronics Receives the 2012 ENERGY STAR Drum Washing Machine Partner of the Year Award “WM3550H” Last year, a substantial number of LGE’s products earned the “ENERGY STAR Most Efficient 2011” designation, and our company has now received further recognition for its green achievements with the 2012 ENERGY STAR Partner of the Year Award from the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency. The honor is awarded to ENERGY STAR partners who are committed to improving the environment through energy-efficient innovations and produce exceptional results. The evaluation for selecting winners was performed based on partners’ activities and performance in the year 2011. Product Models Named as Energy Star Most Efficient 2011 Washing Machine WM3550H, WM3150H, WM3360H Refrigerator LFC21776, LFC25776 Increasing Efficiency with a Direct Drive (DD) Motor A large capacTV 42LV3700, 47LW5700, 47LW5600, 47LW6500, 47LW5500, 55LW5700, ity washing machine employing “6 Motion Technology”, it increases user 55LW5600, 55LW6500 convenience utilizing allergy care, steam wash and 15 minute speed wash options. With the motor connected directly to the tub (DD Motor Technology), it produces less noise and consumes less power. 1) FPR (Film-type Patterned Retarder) Technology: A method for producing 3D effects Modified Energy Factor (MEF) of WM3550H Unit: MEF4) by employing a precise film substrate attached to the LCD TV panel in combination with polarized 3D glasses. 2) Energy Star Qualification Standard: The annual estimated energy use (kWh) based 170% Greater Energy Efficiency 3.4 on the energy consumption scenario with the consumption level specified in Energy Star 5.3 Version (TV on Mode-max=10kW, Sleep Mode-max=1kW) 3) Federal Standard: The minimum requirements established by the U.S. government on energy efficiency for electronics products based on the National Appliance En1.26 ergy Conservation Act 4) MEF (Modified Energy Factor): The official energy efficiency metric used from 2004 to compare relative efficiencies of different washing machines based on the formula Federal Standard WM3550H MEF=C/(M+E+D per wash cycle). (C: Capacity, M: Energy used to run the washing machine, E: Energy used to heat the water and D: Energy used to run the dryer). For more detailed information on key criteria of Energy Star, please visit their website. Energy Star Key Criteria of Washing Machine click 40·2011-2012 LG Electronics Sustainability Report Resource Reduction Annual PCR* Consumption Unit: Ton Improving Recyclability · From the product development phase, LG Electronics considers environmental factors (including degradability 3,298 and recyclability) and incorporates them into internal development procedures. Additionally, the company also utilizes assessment tools such as a recyclability check list. Thanks to such efforts as material 2,014 quality improvement, we were able to achieve a 7kg weight reduction in our 2011 washing machine (Model FR4349BAYZ) model from the 989 previous year’s (Model FR4349EAZ). (Please refer to the table below.) Resource Reduction Case 2009 2010 2011 * Post-Consumer Recycled (PCR) Plastic: Plastic recycled after use and disposal by consumers Disclosure of Warranty and Parts Holding Period · LGE believes that minimizing E-waste by prolonging product life is one way to practice green management. As part of this effort, we have established and manage warranty and parts holding periods as specified below: Model Name FR4349EAZ FR4349BAYZ Production Year 2010 2011 Warranty and Parts Holding Period Washing/Drying Capacity 13kg/8kg 13kg/8kg Product Warranty Period* Parts Holding Period** Weight About 117kg About 110kg Mobile Phone 1-2 years 3-5 years TV 1-3 years 7 years Utilization of Recycled Materials · LGE is making great efforts to increase the use of recycled materials to promote resource recycling. Air Conditioner 1-5 years 7 years With such efforts, LGE used a total of 3,298 tons of Post-Consumer Washing Machine, Refrigerator, etc. 1-3 years 7 years Recycled (PCR) plastic in 2011, continually increasing the use from 989 tons and 2,014 tons in 2009 and 2010, respectively. PCR plastic is used * Warranty Period is subject to change depending on product category, market, and in a variety of LGE products from refrigerators through washing malocal regulations. chines, air conditioners, mobile handsets and monitors. ** Parts Holding Period starts from the discontinuation of a product. The U.S. Subsidiary (LGEUS) Take-back Manager Talks About the U.S. Recycling System Q1. Please tell us about LG’s E-waste Take-back process in the U.S. LGEUS is managing its take-back program through our recycling program LeAndrea Dames website (http://www.lgrecyclingprogram.com). We are providing the service Take-back Manager, LGEUS free of charge and in addition to LG products, we also accept Zenith and older GoldStar brand products. Customers can check out how to recycle LG Volume of E-waste Collected by LGEUS Take-back Program Unit: Ton products and the locations of over 200 eCycling* centers nationwide from the website. 167% Q2. What is LGEUS planning to do to advance the take-back program 158% 6,152 in the U.S.? 3,685 249% LGEUS plans to maintain close partnerships with our recycling partners 2,330 including Keep America Beautiful** and will continue to raise customers’ awareness of the importance of protecting the environment and recycling. 935 We also plan to promote our eCycling centers from the recycling program website. 2008 2009 2010 2011 * Electronics Recycling: Refers to recycling of scrap machinery or its components and scrap metals ** A U.S. based non-profit organization established in 1953. Focuses on community improvement projects such as litter prevention, waste reduction/recycling and community greening & beautification. Environment | Greener Products·41 E-waste Management and Recycling · LG Electronics collects E-waste Green Partnership in accordance with the local Electrical and Electronic Equipment Green Program Plus · In order to promote green management across (WEEE) regulations and requirements around the world. The company the value chain, LGE is continuously expanding green partnerships also maintains a website that offers information on its E-waste takewith its suppliers. Utilizing the company’s proprietary green supply back system and related activities. chain management program called “Green Program Plus (GP Plus)”, We are also establishing a take-back system in countries planning to we start managing hazardous substances and GHG emissions from implement the WEEE regulations starting in 2012, such as India, Austhe moment components are produced by suppliers, to whom we tralia and Argentina (Buenos Aires), and maintain open dialogue with provide related training. LGE plans to continually expand the scope of governmental and industry organizations to facilitate E-waste collecsuch green partnerships. Green Supply Chain Management click tion and recycling. E-waste Management and Recycling click Additionally, LGE validates new suppliers’ green management capaGlobal E-waste Take-back and Recycling Performance Unit: Ton bilities, and existing suppliers are managed through follow-up procedures. The following describes the company’s internal criteria for 2009 2010 2011 assessing supplier’s green management: Korea 38,542 Green Program Plus/Assessment Criteria for Suppliers 43,412 Screening of New Suppliers Screening of Existing Suppliers 45,581 Environmental Environmental/Mass 20 50 Management System Production Management Japan 4,247 Management of Hazardous Supplier Management 15 50 3,603 Substances Inspection Management 35 4,252 Management of Material/ Voluntary Phase-out of PVC/ 5 (Extra 30 Product BFRs Point) Europe 122,358 158,209 LGE has been providing suppliers with training to foster green experts and transferring the company’s green technology and know-how. In 132,279 2011, we conducted eight training sessions involving participation from 224 suppliers. Moving forward, LGE will continue to pursue u.s. 2,330 green partnerships with suppliers, helping them to strengthen their 3,685 green competitiveness. 6,152 Total 167,477 FUTURE DIRECTION 208,909 • Continue to introduce greener products 188,264 • Provide customers with information on our environmental performance for each product · As the reporting period varies from country to country in Europe, we have included • Establish a global take-back system some figures that are estimated from those of neighboring countries, or originate • Strengthen E-waste recycling system from the previous year. As such, small adjustments can be anticipated in data for next • Strengthen green partnerships with suppliers year's report. No. of Green Certified Companies (Cumulative) Unit: No. of Suppliers No. of Certified Auditors/Expert (Cumulative) Unit: No. of Auditors/Experts Green Auditors (LG Electronics) +169 4,341 Green Experts (Suppliers) 1,630 4,172 1,379 4,041 1,090 729 814 621 2009 2010 2011 · The figure includes each certification/assessment received by a single supplier for multiple production locations. 2009 2010 2011 42·2011-2012 LG Electronics Sustainability Report Low-Carbon Green Management Water Treatment In 2010, LGE developed a new water treatment proOUR APPROACH cess and acquired the “New Environmental Technology” certification from the Korea Environmental Industry and Technology Institute (a • Manage climate change risk and exploit opportunities Ministry of Environment affiliate). With a goal to become a global • Continuously manage our performance in GHG emissions reduction leader in water solutions by 2020, LGE is also focusing on expanding • Reinforce four major strategies against climate change the business, establishing a joint venture with Hitachi Plant Technolo• Expand the low-carbon supply chain management gies and acquiring Daewoo Entec, a company specializing in operation and management of water treatment facilities. (More details on pp.18-19) Smart Grid OUR PERFORMANCE LGE introduced “Smart ThinQ” products, which are smart grid ready appliances based on LGE’s proprietary smart appliance technology. Exploiting Opportunities and Managing Risks Related to Climate Change Smart ThinQ appliances can save time and operation costs with simGreen Business · LG Electronics plans to actively explore business opple and convenient energy managing technology. Smart ThinQ is repportunities arising from climate change, such as changing consumer resented in five key features: Smart Grid, Smart Management, Smart and market preference, increasing demand for low carbon products Diagnosis, Smart Control, and Smart Upgrade. and expanding use of renewable energy, and translate those opporAlso, LGE has developed “Home Energy Management System tunities into business success. To this end, we have designated green (HeMS)”, a system that monitors and manages home energy conbusinesses such as photovoltaics, LED lighting, total HVAC, smart grid sumption in real-time. And LGE has been applying this system by and water solutions as our enterprise growth engines for the future participating in the smart grid pilot project in Jeju Island, Korea. With and are making active investments. these smart technologies, LGE is planning to provide a comprehensive energy management solution with a future convergence with Photovoltaics Solution LGE has established a solar panel production HeMS, smart appliances, renewable energy, and Residential Energy facility of 330MW capacity at its Gumi Plant in South Korea, and is Storage System (ESS). supplying solar panels to the European and the U.S. markets. LGE’s crystalline silicon solar panel was designated as “Green Technology of the Year” at the 2011 National Green Technology Awards hosted by the Korean government. With the technology, LGE now produces solar panels with over 19% energy conversion efficiency. Also, our solar cells comprised the first solar panel in the world to acquire the Carbon Free Certification1) in July 2011. Smart Refrigerator & Smart Washing Free from OEM parts and materials, LGE’s photovoltaics business has Machine Model Equipped with Smart internal production procedures and quality control systems in place ThinQ Technology and plans to expand its production facility to 1GW capacity or higher. Lighting LGE has been developing business in LED lighting, which LGE is currently participating in smart grid pilot projects in Korea, Geryields greater energy efficiency compared to incandescent and floresmany, and U.S. and working hard at developing smart appliances to cent lighting, and has introduced residential bulbs and lamps utilizing interface with smart grid. an LED light source as a replacement for halogen. Unlike florescent lighting, LED lighting contains no mercury and has twenty times the Climate Change Risk Management · LGE is closely monitoring and lifespan of halogen, with about 50,000 hours of life. LGE also acquired managing risks, such as rising commodity prices, natural disasters, official certification for photobiological safety for its LED light sources stricter energy efficiency standards and adoption of regulations (Carbon tax and GHG emissions trading schemes, etc.) in order to counfrom TüV Rheinland in 2011. In the industrial lighting segment, LGE introduced various LED flat teract them in advance. luminaires and exterior lighting fixtures (streetlight). Currently, the industrial lighting segment is expanding its business areas into a Smart Grid Pilot Project lighting management system, which facilitates efficient management of power consumption utilizing diverse technologies such as sensor, Region Participant Scope electronic control, etc. Also LGE’s interior lighting and floodlighting Gujwa-Eup, 440 households Smart Server, Smart TV, Smart acquired the PSE (Product Safety Electric Appliance and Materials) Jeju Island, Korea Refrigerator, Smart Washing Machine, mark in Japan and a certification from the China Qualification Center Smart Air Conditioner, Heat Pump, (CQC). Solar Panel, LED Lighting Aachen, Germany 5 households Smart Server, Smart Refrigerator, 1) Carbon Free Certification: A certification process that verifies GHG emissions Smart Washing Machine throughout a product’s lifecycle (production, distribution, use and disposal) and engages in carbon offset activities, ultimately achieving carbon neutralization for the California, U.S. 20 households Residential Energy Storage Device product. (Certification Agency: Carbon Fund). Environment | Low-Carbon Green Management·43 Low-Carbon Green Management Strategy Production Level GHG Management Scope Strategic Direction · LG Electronics’ low-carbon green management Category Standard & Scope Target strategy is comprised of four major themes: production level GHG reduction through productivity improvement, product usage level GHG Organizational Control Approach 14 business sites in Korea and 30 reduction through energy efficiency enhancement, corporate-wide Boundary overseas production subsidiaries GHG reduction and management, and enhancing social responsibility through promotion of low-carbon culture. Detailed action plans are Operational Scope 1 Stationary Combustion, Mobile also established for each theme. Based on such efforts, LGE will strive Boundary Combustion, Process Emission, Fugitive Emission to provide low-carbon value to customers. Scope 2 Purchased Electricity, Steam Low-Carbon Green Management System · LGE has been managing GHG reduction at production and product usage levels, regarding it as GHG Carbon Dioxide (CO2), Methane (CH4), a key business objective. LGE’s low-carbon green management effort Nitrous Oxide (N2O), Hydrofluorocarbons (HFCs), is led by the Green Strategy Department under the Chief Technology Perfluorinated Chemicals (PFCs), Officer, and is implemented through close collaboration between exSulphur Hexafluoride (SF6), Hydrochlorofluorocarbons (HCFCs) ecution units from each business company and business unit. Production Level GHG Reduction Reduction Target Unit: 10,000 ton CO2e Management Standard · Based on ISO 14064-1, the WRI·WBCSD1) GHG Protocol and the 2006 IPCC2) Guidelines, LGE has established and implemented an internal management standard as specified below. Additionally, the company utilizes an IT System (Corporate CarReductions Compared to BAU* bon Management System) to systematically manage GHG emissions and reductions. Reductions 10.2↓ 15.0↓ Absolute Reductions Reduction Target · LGE has set a target to reduce 150,000 tons of GHG Emissions 146.3 136.1 131.3 emissions associated with production in 2020 from the base year 2008 (10% reduction) through activities such as production process innovation, facility/operation efficiency improvement, renewable energy use, 2008 2011 2020 Base Year Target Year 1) World Resource Institute, World Business Council for Sustainable Development * BAU (Business As Usual): Projected GHG emissions based on the assumption that 2) The United Nations Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change GHG reduction technology and policy remains at the current level Low-Carbon Green Strategy Providing Low-Carbon value to customers through voluntary GHG emissions reduction Value Productivity Enhancement Product Competitiveness Operational Efficiencies Social Contribution Low-Carbon Factory Low-Carbon Product Low-Carbon Value Chain Low-Carbon Culture Strategic GHG emissions reduction at Contribution to GHG GHG emissions reduction Employee & community Directives production sites emissions reduction during over engagement product usage product life cycle 0.15 million tons by 2020 30 million tons by 2020 Reduction Management Top-tier performer Target (cumulative amount: (cumulative amount: by 2015 by 2015 1 million tons) 200 million tons) Infrastructure for Effective GHG Emissions Management 44·2011-2012 LG Electronics Sustainability Report etc. Based on the target, LGE is expected to reduce a total of about 1 Key Progress and Activities · In 2011, LGE contributed to reducing 21 million tons (cumulative) of GHG emissions from 2009 to 2020. million tons of GHG emissions associated with product use (compared to the energy consumption level of 2007) by introducing a great numKey Progress and Activities · LG Electronics reduced 102,000 tons of ber of highly energy efficient products. GHG emissions associated with production through such activities as production process innovation, facility/operation efficiency improveCarbon Footprint Disclosure To help consumers realize the amount of ment, renewable energy use, etc. Also, LGE is currently in the process GHG produced during a product’s lifecycle, LGE measures the GHG of acquiring ISO 50001 (Energy Management Systems) for all its proemissions for each product model and is voluntarily acquiring carbon duction sites and major R&D facilities in order to increase energy and labels. (More details on p.36-37 “Carbon Label” in “Greener ProdGHG reduction management efficiency. ucts”) Facility/Operation Efficiency Improvement LGE was able to reduce Clean Development Mechanism (CDM) LGE is proceeding with the about 20,000 tons GHG emissions in 2011 through activities such as Clean Development Mechanism (CDM), acquiring carbon credits cooling tower efficiency improvement (Plasma Display Panel producthrough sales of highly energy efficient refrigerators. The company’s tion process), molding air compressor efficiency improvement (refriginitiative was approved by the Indian government in April 2010 and erator parts production process), and air blowing pressure optimizais currently undergoing a registration process (2012). Through this tion. project, LGE is expected to secure 400,000 tons of Certified Emissions Reductions (CERs) annually over the next ten years. Investment in High Efficiency Equipment LGE was able to reduce about 30,000 tons of GHG emissions in 2011 by investing in high effiGHG Reduction for the Whole Product Life Cycle ciency equipment such as automatic building energy control systems, Support for Suppliers’ GHG Management · In 2010, LGE established small capacity boilers, high efficiency turbo air compressors, etc. and announced a plan to expand its low-carbon procurement. The Company plans to purchase over KRW 50 trillion of components annuIncreasing Renewable Energy Use LGE is expanding its use of renewally by the year 2020 from the companies conducting sustainable GHG able energy, adopting solar power generating systems, converting reduction plans among the 1,500 partners selected based on energy energy sources (purchasing steam from Changwon municipal wasteconsumption and purchase amount. To this end, we will provide supincineration facility), etc. As of 2011, solar power generating systems port to suppliers to strengthen their GHG management capabilities, with a total capacity of 126KW are in operation at the production sites including GHG management training, GHG inventory and monitoring at Gumi and Changwon in Korea and also in Thailand. LGE plans to system setup and GHG reduction consulting. continuously expand its renewable energy use, including the scope of In 2011, LGE signed an MOU with Industrial Bank of Korea (IBK) to heat recovery. support suppliers’ low-carbon green growth management. Based on the agreement, LGE is providing support for Small and MediumProduct Usage Level GHG Reduction sized Enterprises’ green management assessment and GHG inventory Reduction Target · LGE plans to contribute to the reduction of GHG setup. LGE is also participating in the national policy initiative “Volunemissions associated with product use by developing and introductary Green Partnership between Large and Small companies” led by ing highly energy efficient products. The company has set a target to the Ministry of Knowledge Economy and expanding the number of reduce 30 million tons of GHG emissions from the BAU in 2020. LGE suppliers receiving the support. Additionally, we plan to facilitate supexpects to contribute to a total reduction of about 200 million tons pliers’ voluntary reduction of GHG emissions by creating low carbon (cumulative) of GHG emissions associated with product use from management guidelines specified for the electronics industry and 2009 to 2020. making them available to all of our suppliers. Reduction Target Unit: 10,000 ton CO2e Office Building GHG Management · Since 2008, LGE has been managing GHG emissions from our office buildings in Korea, including the leased office spaces with more than 100 fulltime employees (Twin Towers, Seoul Square in Korea). In 2011, a total of 7,987 tons of GHG Contributions was emitted from LGE’s office buildings. 3,000 to Reductions Compared to Our U.S. Subsidiary (LGEUS) also announced a plan to reduce GHG 2,100 BAU* emissions from its office buildings in the U.S. (including warehouses) to 50% by 2020, compared to the emissions in 2007. LGEUS plans to Reductions 146.3 meet the target mostly by expanding the use of power generated by renewable energy (green electricity). LGEUS will also reduce GHG emissions by employing a building energy management system, improving lighting and HVAC efficiency and optimizing office spaces. 2007 2011 2020 Base Year Target Year Greener Logistics · LGE has set a target to reduce GHG emissions from logistics activities (Korea) by 1% on an annual basis compared to * BAU (Business As Usual): Projected GHG emissions based on the assumption that GHG reduction technology and policy remains at the current level the distance traveled per unit weight carried from the previous year. The total GHG emissions from logistics activities in Korea was 95,282 Environment | Low-Carbon Green Management·45 tons in 2011. LGE plans to create a greener logistics system with transCarbon Reduction Activity port system innovation, energy use optimization and a green logistics Climate Change Awarness Campaign for Employees LGE is engaging IT system. in a campaign that encourages employees to participate in the reduction of GHG emissions and energy consumption from their daily activiGHG Emissions from Mobility · Since 2008, LG Electronics has been ties at work. At LGE’s production locations, employees voluntarily ormanaging GHG emissions from vehicles leased for employee comganized an energy observer group to check electricity and steam leaks muting and GHG emissions associated with business travels. In 2011, and power switches on electronics products to reduce energy loss. 6,072 tons of GHG was emitted from vehicles leased for employee We are also organizing various programs and campaigns such as lowcommuting and 62,000 tons of GHG was produced by employees’ carbon meals, food waste reduction, forest cleaning, tree planting, etc. business travels. LGE is making ongoing efforts to reduce GHG emisto raise awareness of climate change and encourage our employees sions from mobility by utilizing video conferencing and encouraging to make changes in their everyday life. Also from 2011, we have desemployees to use greener transportation means such as railway. ignated every Friday as a “Day without Disposable Cups” at HQ and are encouraging employee participation. With this campaign, about Water Use and Management 20,000 disposable cups are saved monthly, resulting in a reduction of Water Use · LGE is managing the volume of water used and recycled approximately 220kg of GHG emissions (based on the Ministry of Enat its production sites in Korea and overseas. A total of 13 million tons vironment estimate of 11g of CO2 per cup). of water was used and 680,000 tons of water was recycled in 2011. Water use at our productions sites is expected to increase continuousEnhancing Cooperation with External Organizations LGE is engaging ly with expansion of green businesses such as solar module producin a carbon offset campaign in cooperation with the U.S. based NGO tion. However, LGE will continue its effort to reduce water use based Carbon Fund. In 2011, the entire GHG emissions from Carbon Free ceron internal management targets. LGE is setting a target of reducing tified LGE products was offset by Carbon Fund’s various activities, in20% of water use by 2020, compared to 2007 (Intensity target per revcluding tree planting and investments in renewable energy. Additionenue in KRW). ally, total 16 tons of GHG emissions associated with LGE’s activities at the 2011 International Comsumer Electronics Show (CES) was offset Global Water Use Unit: 1,000 tons through Carbon Fund activities. 12,914 12,128 10,209 Campaign for Reducing Food Waste Forest Cleaning and Tree Planting Event 2009 2010 2011 Engagement with Policy Makers · As part of its commitment to contribute to efforts by global industries to address climate change issues, Low-Carbon Culture LGE is actively participating in initiatives led by international organizaClimate Change Educatioin · LGE is conducting climate change traintions including the United Nations. Since 2010, LGE has been a Steering to raise awareness of the issue among employees, encourage ing Committee member of “Caring for Climate”, one of the initiatives changes in their behavior and increase overall understanding of green from the United Nations Global Compact, and an active member of management. the EICC’s Environmental Sustainability Work Group. Starting with Korean employees in 2009, online climate change trainIn November 2011, LGE officially supported the 2°C Challenge Commuing was expanded to over 20,000 office employees at overseas subnique proposed by the Coporate Leaders Network For Climate Action sidiaries (including North America, China, the EU regions, etc.) in the and clearly expressed its strong commitment towards GHG reductions. following year. In 2011, the program was further expanded to suppliers The communique urges governments and businesses around the world with over 500 employees from 120 partner companies receiving the to participate in the effort to stabilize global warming to under 2°C and training, as well as to LG Group affiliates. Additionally, LGE included was conveyed to international leaders at the 17th Conference of the Parclimate change in the curriculum for regular offline training provided ties (COP 17). to suppliers. Additionally, in February 2012, LGE joined Greenpower Partnership, a voluntary certification program for renewable energy use from the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, and plans to increase the use Carbon Neutral Climate Change Training for Suppliers of renewable energy in its busiCertification ness operations. 46·2011-2012 LG Electronics Sustainability Report Selected into Carbon Management Global Leaders Club by CDP Korea · Since 2008, LGE has been participating in the Carbon Disclosure FUTURE DIRECTION Project (CDP) to enhance corporate sustainability and increase socially responsible investment through low carbon green management. The • Continue to discover low-carbon value for customers company has been named as a member of the Carbon Management • Expand and strengthen green businesses Global Leaders Club for three consecutive years from 2009, and is rec• Respond to climate change adaptation issues ognized as one of the top Korean businesses with outstanding carbon disclosure and reduction performance. 2011 Carbon Management Global Leaders Club by CDP Korea Environment | EESH Management·47 EESH Management Global EESH Audit Results OUR APPROACH Korea 2009 88.0 • Mid and long term strategies: Actively utilize the integrated global Overseas 83.0 EESH Management System • Mid and long term action plan 2010 90.0 Energy: Improve basic unit of energy, secure reliable supply of 81.5 energy utilities Environment: Improve basic unit of pollutant management Reduce environmental management costs, engage in 2011 90.3 environmental protection activities for local communities 83.3 Safety: Manage industrial safety prevention system and Incident Rate (IR), Prevent and mitigate fire risk order. Production sites evaluated as below average are required to Health: Engage in activities promoting occupational health, undergo a vigorous improvement process. improve working environment In 2011, we amended the existing activity-based audit checklist to facilitate greater compliance with the ISO standard EESH policy and regulations. The amended checklist is first being applied to production OUR PERFORMANCE sites in Korea in 2012 and slated for application in overseas sites in 2013. LGE also provides a training course to foster EESH auditors and Integrated Global EESH Management System drive overall EESH management quality to a higher level. LG Electronics established the EESH management system to facilitate Additionally, LGE has an enterprise emergency response system in integrated management of energy, environment, safety and health place, supporting employees in Korea and overseas to better handle issues and is applying the system to all business sites in Korea and emergency situations. Just minutes after the Japanese earthquake in overseas. From 2010, HQ initiated the acquisition and management of 2011, LGE organized the enterprise emergency response situation centhe Environmental Management System (ISO 14001) and Occupational ter, collected information on damage suffered by LGE subsidiaries and Health and Safety Management System (OHSAS 18001) certifications partner companies located in Japan, and operated a support system. for production sites in Korea, and overseas production sites are estabThe company also collaborated with other LG affiliates including LG lishing respective systems and acquiring ISO 14001 and OHSAS 18001 International Corp. and LG Chem and sped the recovery of the subcertificates (Details on certification status of overseas production sites: sidiary and partner companies. Going forward, LGE will take one step p.82). further from the traditional emergency responses to natural disasters, accidents and infectious diseases, and establish and operate an enterprise emergency response system as a Business Continuity Plan (BCP). Global EESH Management Checklist 1. Policy & Leadership Green Management System (Korea) · LGE’s Pyeongtaek site (LG Digital 12. Management Review 2. Goal & Plan Park) has established Green Management System1) (GMS) and in July m en t P 2011, obtained the very first GMS certification in the industry. ve 3. Organization I mp la n /Accountability Powered by the Green Management System, LGE’s Pyeongtaek site ro 4. Risk Management not only can further its integrated EESH management and response to 5. Training & Exercise Global EESH climate change and environmental risks more systematically, but also strengthen its energy and GHG management and environmental ast ni 6. Emergency Response Mo or on sessment. The Green Management System will be implemented at all ing ti 7. Document Management cu LGE business sites in Korea from 2012. 10. Investigation & Analysis Exe 8. Communication 11. Evaluation & Improvement 9. Operation & Management 1) Green Management System: A management certification issued by the Korean government under the Low-Carbon, Green Growth Act. The system includes all existing international management standards such as ISO 14001 (Environmental Management Establishment of Corporate-wide EESH Management System · To faSystems), ISO 14064 (Greenhouse Gas Accounting and Verification), ISO 26000 (Socilitate establishment of the global EESH management system at its cial Responsibility) and ISO 50001 (Energy Management Systems). A pilot project for production sites, LGE performs an annual EESH audit for each site, “Establishment and Expansion of Green Management System” was initiated by the with biannual HQ and Company audits being conducted in alternate Ministry of Knowledge Economy in 2011. 2011 Audit Results for Overseas Production Sites Key Results from the 2011 Audit Key Objectives in 2012 1. Inadequate application of the EESH management process 1. Support production sites that have not been certified to acquire ISO certifications 2. Some subsidiaries need to improve capability of EESH management staffers 2. Develop training programs to improve capability of EESH management staffers 3. The EESH management system needs to be stabilized at newly established 3. Improve communication with HQ subsidiaries 4. Strengthen the monitoring system at each subsidiary 48·2011-2012 LG Electronics Sustainability Report Activities at Production Sites and Subsidiaries At Gumi Ⅲ Plant, odor control facilities and aeration tank covers were Energy · LG Electronics has integrated various energy consumption installed to address odors from the waste water treatment plant and indicators into GHG emissions and reductions and manages them acalso prevent electricity leaks and corrosion of measuring instruments cordingly. Also it has obtained the ISO 50001 (Energy Management Sysand building structures. tems) certification for all production sites in Korea and key R&D facilities Additionally, LGE is making diverse efforts, including improvements to facilitate the enterprise-wide reduction of energy consumption. for air pollutants and waste management process, to prevent environIn 2011, LGE reduced 102,000 tons (7%) of GHG emissions associated mental pollution. with production compared to 2008 through such activities as production process innovation, facility/operation efficiency improvement, Community Improvement · Every year, LGE organizes and pursues renewable energy use, etc. various initiatives to protect the environment. LGE production sites Major activities for reducing energy consumption include: expansion organize diverse events commemorating Arbor Day, Children’s Day, of renewable energy facilities and investments (solar power generation World Oceans Day, World Environment Day, Good Recycle Day, etc. systems at production sites, waste heat recovery systems); adoption and provide annual support to local environmental forums, including of high efficiency equipment (high efficiency cooler and cooling towers the “Environment Forum for Children”. LGE’s ChangwonⅠPlant was for Plasma Display Panel production); implementation of the building designated as a “Green Wheel Business Site” by the Ministry of Enmanagement system (BdMS); and improvement of energy consumpvironment in 2011 for using bicycles for commuting and on-premise tion and utility equipment efficiency (More details on pp. 42-43). travel. This is the second time the plant was designated as a model business site following the 2009 designation, and reinforced LGE’s Basic Energy Unit Unit: TJ/KRW 10 billion environment-friendly image. 1.74 1.64 1.49 2009 2010 2011 Usage(tj) 8,291 9,125 9,436 Green Wheel Business Site World Environment Day Environment · LGE is making its best effort to minimize the environmental impacts from its production sites by continuously innovating E-waste Take-Back Campaign production process and investing in environmental equipment/facilities. (Korea) · In order to contribute to the creation of a society in Generated and Recycled Waste (Korea) Base Unit: ton/KRW billion, Unit: ton which resources are fully valTotal Waste ued, recycled and reused, LGE 2.70 Total Recycled Waste 2.67 is engaging in various activities promoting E-waste take-back Base Unit 51,023 1.88 48,349 and recycling. In 2011, LGE, 38,739 together with the Ulsan MetroE-waste Take-Back Campaign 37,529 politan Government, engaged 34,639 in an E-waste take-back campaign and collected waste products free of 27,911 charge, collecting and recycling about nine times more E-waste than in 2010. Additionally, LGE ran a waste mobile phone recovery campaign at business sites in Korea, reducing negative environmental impacts and 2009 2010 2011 recycling rare metals used in the collected phones. Recovered E-waste General and Hazardous Waste (Korea) Unit: ton from Ulsan Metropolitan City in 2011 Unit: No. of collected E-waste General 48,490 11,849 Hazardous 45,883 32,200 891% 1,330 2,439 2,466 2,533 581 2009 2010 2011 2009 2010 2011 · Criteria: Refrigerator, Washing Machine and TV Environment | EESH Management·49 Safety · LG Electronics takes worksite safety very seriously and purevacuation in emergency situations. Additionally, the company plans sues every possible precaution to prevent accidents from occurring to make diverse efforts to lower fire risk, i.e. identifying measures to at its production sites and diligently prepares to handle emergency progressively reduce the quantitative figures expressed in the risk assituations. At ChangwonⅡPlant, LGE introduced a Behavior-Based sessment. Safety (BBS) program to prevent accidents caused by human error. This safety program detects human error in advance and prevents any accidents from happening, and will be implemented at all LGE production sites in Korea. Incident Rate (IR) Korea 0.62 Overseas 0.61 0.54 Fire Modeling and Evacuation Simulation Health · To promote and protect employee health, LGE is engag0.08 0.05 0.03 ing in Total Health Promotion (THP) activities with a special 2009 2010 2011 focus on smoking secession · IR = The number of incident cases/Total work hours×200,000 and weight management. Counseling centers have also been established, assisting employBBS Component ees to manage their stress. At Changwon Plant Declared as all LGE business sites, in Korea Non-Smoking Business Site and overseas, a medical service Job Safety professional (either a doctor or nurse) is always available to oversee Analysis the health of employees working at each site. Additionally, those medical professionals provide first aid and CPR training so that our employees can handle emergency situations. Risk In Korea, LGE offers regular medical check-ups (special, general, comBBS Prevention prehensive) to employees through a tailored medical check-up system Committee Tech. called LGHI. Based on the results, employees receive health consultations and make lifestyle modifications to improve their health. Changwon Plant (ⅠandⅡ) in particular have been engaged in a non-smoking campaign for the past several years to discourage employees from continuing the deadly habit, and converted their premises into nonBBS Work Safety smoking facilities in 2011. The Plant phased out all onsite smoking Assessment Observation areas and converted them into rest areas, and initiated a smoking secession fund. In 2012, LGE plans to engage a smoking secession campaign at all business sites in Korea. LG Digital Park also invests over KRW 1 billion in safety and damage prevention facilities every year and provides sysFUTURE DIRECTION tematic training and exercises. LG Digital Park’s efforts for rais• The following mid to long term plans will be implemented to bolster ing awareness on safety issues, the integrated the EESH Management System complying with regulations and Implement the new EESH audit checklist at business sites in Korea promoting work safety was duly and overseas LGE at the Korea Safety Award recognized and honored with Establish LGE into a leading corporation in green management the 2011 Korea Safety Award. through activities for reducing negative environmental impacts and In 2011, LGE became the first electronics manufacturer to implement protecting the environment a fire risk assessment in Korea. Based on a quantitative analysis of Implement the BBS program throughout the company to prevent fire risk in production sites, LGE redesigned the fire protection and accidents suppression system and made structural improvements depending Develop fire risk indexes to facilitate fire risk mitigation efforts at a on the risk level. The redesign paid particular attention to securing quantitative level safe evacuation routes and improving their safety, and facilitated swift Implement an anti-smoking campaign at all LGE business sites in Korea 50·2011-2012 LG Electronics Sustainability Report Business Partner It is not easy for an Small and Medium-sized Enterprise to secure global competitiveness in a fast changing global business landscape. Against this backdrop, LG Electronics’ strong commitment for win-win growth carries a great significance for many. The company consistently strived to fulfill its responsibilities as a trustworthy business partner, helping partners within its supply chain to rationalize business management, increase productivity and improve product quality. To this end, LGE has enhanced communication through diverse channels and provided financial, technological and HR support, and I would like to express my deepest appreciation for its sincere efforts. It was during the CSR Strategy presentation LGE hosted for its partners that Shinyoung Precision first became aware of trends and issues of CSR, which was fast becoming a hot issue in the global business world. Shortly afterwards, we participated in a CSR risk assessment offered by LGE to take a close look at Shinyoung Precision’s CSR reality, and whether our business environment was up to the international CSR standards. From that point onward, Shinyoung Precision has established mid to longterm CSR plans and worked to increase our CSR competitiveness by addressing potential risks in such areas as labor, ethics, environment, safety and health, management systems, etc. As a member of the “Making Partners Strong” program, Shinyoung Precision is committed to improvHeo Yoon ing its fundamentals based upon LGE’s “Jeong-Do Management”, working towards business transparency CEO, and strengthening member capability. We will always be in step with LGE on the path towards sustainable Shinyoung Precision Co., Ltd. growth as a competitive and socially responsible business partner. Business Partner | Win-Win Growth·51 Win-Win Growth OUR APPROACH Topic Key Tasks Activity and Performance Support · Support partners to achieve · Provision of business opportunity quality control and production Open door policy: • Secure Global No.1 competitiveness based upon win-win growth capability of global top levels Simplified new supplier registration with business partners · Support partners to strengthen Joint R&D investment: Joint R&D Support for long-term self sufficiency their capability in next projects (23 partners/KRW 9.8 billion) generation technology · Financing Support Build and maintain competitive partnerships · Provide financing support Material/Parts Supply/Cost Reduction Engage in open communication and conduct fair trade · Provide training and HR (KRW 26.4 billion) support Direct financing (KRW 43.3 billion) LG Win-Win Growth Fund (KRW 125 billion) Shorter processing period for cash payment to subcontractors (15 days10 days) OUR PERFORMANCE · Training support (3,363 employees from 508 partners) Our Supply Chain Cultivation · Designate partners to receive · Fostered partner capability: intensive support and Restructuring support (90 partners) In 2011, LG Electronics had transactions with more than 4,000 supmanage their progress Joint product consortium with pliers around the world, with the total purchasing amount reaching · Support partners to grow in the government (KRW 0.6 billion for over KRW 31 trillion. As the company’s production bases are mostly size and relocate closer to LG 20 partners) business locations located in Asia, about 86% of procurement was made in the region. · Support partners to improve product quality, productivity and R&D capability Global Procurement Amount Communica· Implement and manage · Addressed partners’ grievances tion a system for addressing Organized and held the Win-Win Growth partner grievances Commission to address partner 55.9% 11.2% Korea · Conduct a Partners’ grievances (Monthly) Satisfaction Survey and make Made visits to partners’ business 9.6% China improvements based on the locations (80 times) Total U.S. results Had dialogue with partners (61 sessions) KRW 8.5% · Host external events and · Partners’ Satisfaction Survey Japan 31 Trillion engage in promotional activities Conducted Partners’ Satisfaction Survey 7.2% Taiwan on 200 partners in Korea: Scored 76.1 points Others Scored 2 points higher compared to the 7.6% year before (74.2 points) Stronger CSR · CSR training · Conducted offline CSR training for 152 Management · Risk assessment & partners in Korea Capability consulting to enhance · Conducted EICC self-assessments implementation 45 out of 213 partners are classified as Philosophy behind Win-Win Growth high risk group The success of win-win growth should not be judged by how much · Provided CSR consulting to 17 partners profit we shared with our partners; rather it needs to be judged by identified as high risk group how competitive our partners have become and how healthy our ecoNon-compliance improvement: 88% improvement rate system has become.” Bon Moo Koo, Chairman, LG Corp. < Executive seminar in October 2011 > Annual Partners’ Satisfaction Survey Results Unit: point Strategy for Win-Win Growth LGE is committed to achieving truly sustainable win-win growth in a 75.0 74.0 74.2 76.1 73.4 practical manner and helping our partners become strong and competitive based upon the following strategy: • Fully adhere to fair trade principles • Provide sufficient support for partners to secure sustainable 2008 2009 2010 First Half, 2011 Second Half, 2011 competitiveness · Out of 100 points, based on the responses from the 1st tier suppliers • Support partners to achieve quality control and production capability of global top levels • Support partners to secure self-sufficiency through technological capability FUTURE DIRECTION 2011 Programs for Win-Win Growth and Performance • Expand the “Making Partners Strong” program LGE’s 2011 programs for promoting win-win growth with business • Continue mutual innovations partners were implemented with an emphasis on the four key tenets • Practice “Selection & Concentration” with the Win-Win Growth of support, cultivation, communication, and stronger CSR manageprograms ment capability. • Innovate the Win-Win Growth process 52·2011-2012 LG Electronics Sustainability Report CSR in Supply Chain CSR Awareness Seminar and Training OUR APPROACH Prior to implementing a CSR risk management program for suppliers, LGE conducted training for the management of LGE and partner • Strengthen CSR compliance to meet the EICC standards companies and related staffers to introduce CSR, raise awareness on Require suppliers to perform a regular CSR risks self-assessment the issue, and brief them on the structure of the EICC self-assessment Provide intensive consulting to suppliers in high risk group questionnaire and how to complete one. In March 2011, we also inMake ongoing efforts to raise CSR awareness and drive vited all 152 major Korean suppliers to LGE locations, held a presentameaningful changes in suppliers’ CSR management system tion on corporate social responsibility and provided in-depth training on the introduction of risk management programs in compliance with the EICC standards. OUR PERFORMANCE Supplier CSR Risk Management Programs In order to protect employees’ rights and interests across our production locations and conserve the environment and resources, LG Electronics has categorized and defined potential risks inherent in producPresentation on CSR Risk Management tion activities as CSR risks in the aspects of labor rights, human rights, Program for Suppliers environment and health and safety, and carefully manages those risks. In August 2010, the company became a member of the Electronic Industry Citizenship Coalition (EICC) as part of our commitment to bring Introduction of Legally Binding CSR Clauses in Agreements our efforts for addressing CSR risks up to international standards. As In the second half of 2011, LGE requested major suppliers to declare a full member of the EICC from March 2012, LGE is not only striving commitment to CSR requirements. Since then, the commitment beto reduce CSR risks in our production locations but also cooperating came a formal process for suppliers. As part of our effort to instituwith suppliers to curtail CSR risks at their production facilities, based tionalize a system promoting CSR compliance, we introduced the “LGE on a strong belief that mutual growth with our suppliers is a prerequiSupplier Code of Conduct” agreement and required our suppliers to site for business sustainability. sign it in October 2011, establishing CSR compliance as a prerequisite for conducting business with LGE. Supplier CSR Risk Management Programs Supplier CSR Risk Assessment step 1 step 2 step 3 step 4 In April 2011, LGE assessed CSR potential risk (in the form of self-assessment) at production facilities of its major suppliers. Major suppliIntroduction Assessment Verification Improvement ers are determined based on the share of the annual total purchasing volume from LGE (80%) in their revenues and strategic importance · Internal Training · Self-assessment · Onsite Audit by · Improvement concluded through a spend analysis. The self-assessment question· Supplier Training · Risk Assessment LGE Actions naire is in compliance with the EICC standards and comprised of over · CSR Compliance · OnSite Audit by · Progress Review 600 questions designed to evaluate the potential risk level of a facilAgreement a Third Party · Evaluation and ity in the areas of labor and human rights, ethics, environment and · Introduction of Commendation safety. CSR Compliance in Supply Contract In this year’s assessment, 45 out of 213 participants (146 domestic and 67 overseas suppliers) have been identified as the high risk group and recommended to make voluntary improvement efforts. 2011 Supplier CSR Risk Self-assessment Result 2011 Supplier CSR Risk Self-assessment Results: Breakdown by Region Low Risk Medium Risk High Risk High Risk Low Risk (Below 65) (85 or higher) South South & Central Eastern 17% Region Korea China Others 21% East Asia America Europe 2011 Supplier CSR Total Score Risk Self-assessment Results Medium Risk Labor (65 or higher) 62% Ethics Environment ( ): Score on the EICC’s Self-assessment Health & Safety Business Partner | CSR in Supply Chain·53 Major Risks Identified by Self-Assessment Onsite Consulting Success Cases The followings are identified as common risk factors from the supplier LGE’s onsite consulting service helped its suppliers identify their CSR CSR risk self-assessment: risks and drive for improvement. The followings are the actual cases where LGE’s onsite consulting service made practical improvement on • Lack of ethics policy and guidelines at a corporate level suppliers’ CSR risks. • Penalty system • Inadequate management of work injuries and diseases Case 1 Unfair Disadvantage in the Resignation Process • Inadequate green programs (Company A in Huizhou, China) • Inadequate infrastructure to facilitate systematic CSR risk management Risk Employees who resign may not be able to get paid. Reason The Period for resignation notice specified in the employment con2012 Plan for Supplier CSR Risk Self-Assessment Unit: No. of suppliers tract is different from that specified in the company bylaws; an employee who failed to meet the notice period specified in the bylaws could lose the remaining wage. over 500 Details While resignation notice period in the employment contract is “within 3 days”, the one in the company regulation is “within 15 days”. And the regulation has not been properly explained to employees. Em213 ployees who didn’t notice the company within 15 days, may not get their remaining wage. ImproveCorrect the notice period in the employment contract to 15 days. 2011 2012 (Planned) ment Explain the regulation periodically to the employees. Discuss and get approval (signature) from the employees in writing. Onsite CSR Consulting Case 2 Illegal Penalties (Company B in Shenzhen, China) LG Electronics visited a total of 17 supplier production locations and Risk Employees lost half a day’s pay for coming in 30 minutes late and performed onsite CSR consulting to determine optimum measures to one fifth of a day’s pay for losing documents. The company was address CSR risks. The sites were selected from those identified as the implementing a penalty system that was not stated in their bylaws, high risk group in the 2011 supplier CSR risk self-assessment. A team without prior agreement with employees on pay deductions. The of certified consultants from HQ undertook the mission of determining company neither itemized penalty deductions nor specified the appropriate improvement measures, with an emphasis on the followgrounds for such deductions on pay stubs. ing goals. Reason A penalty system which existed prior to a merger was maintained. The management was not even aware of the practice. CSR Consulting Goals: ImproveAbolished penalties for coming in late or losing documents. Grounds 1) Perform a site inspection to verify the self-assessment results ment for disciplinary actions were specified and agreed by the staff coun2) Identify potential CSR risks not revealed by the self-assessment cil after a review. All disciplinary actions and their justification were 3) Determine optimum site-specific measures to address CSR risks documented and circulated across the company. Case 3 Lack of a System to Handle Employee Grievances (Company C in South Gyeonsang Province, Korea) Risk Although required by law, the company did not have a system to resolve employee grievances and the Union Corporate Committee was not functioning. Reason The company did not feel the necessity for a system to handle employee grievances and UCC activities as it was a small company of about 40 employees. Onsite CSR Consulting in Korea Supplier Training and CSR Consulting in China ImproveAppointed members of the Employee Grievances Committee esment tablished relevant procedures and helped the company prepare for system implementation. Relevant guidelines were posted on the Major Risks Uncovered by Onsite CSR Consulting premise and training was conducted. The following are identified as common risk factors from onsite CSR consulting: 2012 Plan for Onsite CSR Consulting • Work hours exceeding legal limits Together with its suppliers, LGE will continue efforts to reduce diverse • Poor protection for juvenile workers CSR risks that need to be addressed. In 2012, we are planning not only • Poor management of safety equipment to implement measures for reducing risks, but also to establish an ef• Lack of emergency evacuation training fective system that provides customized assistance to our suppliers in • Lack of policy and procedures for systematic CSR risk management preventing CSR risks. 54·2011-2012 LG Electronics Sustainability Report Onsite Consulting for Suppliers exchange and hosting “Supplier ESH Best Practice Competition” on November 29 to share ESH best practices. Consulting Our efforts produced great results with the average supplier incident Improvement Rate 88% rate falling to 0.45% in 2011 from 0.53% in 2010 and the number of over 80% suppliers managing ESH programs independently increasing to 41 from 35. over 20 sites 17 sites 2011 2012 (Planned) HA Company's ESH Management for Suppliers Every year, the HA Company performs diagnosis on the ESH (EnviSupplier ESH Diagnosis ESH Training for Suppliers of ronment, Safety and Health) performance of domestic and overseas Tianjin Subsidiary in China suppliers, and provides consulting to improve their performance. In 2011, the Company helped its suppliers develop capabilities to independently manage their ESH system by focusing efforts into high risk suppliers and supporting new suppliers to establish ESH programs. Although a total of 670 non-compliance cases were found (340 in FUTURE DIRECTION safety, 109 in electricity, 195 in fire safety, 31 in environment, 31 in health) in the ESH diagnosis performed year-round on 82 suppliers, • Strengthen CSR compliance to meet the EICC standards we were able to make impressive progress with a 98% non-conforIncrease the number of suppliers performing ESH self-diagnosis mance improvement rate. In addition, we encouraged and facilitated Strengthen the management of high risk suppliers suppliers to develop an ESH capability, implement ESH measures and Help suppliers develop capabilities to independently manage their make voluntary improvements by offering quarterly ESH information ESH system Average Supplier Incident Rate Unit: % 0.75% 0.53% 0.45% 2009 2010 2011 Level B* or Higher Suppliers Unit: No. of Suppliers (%) 53 (77%) 48 (70%) 41 (59%) 35 (51%) 2010 2011 2012 2013 (Planned) (Planned) * Level B: Suppliers capable of independently managing their ESH system Business Partner | Conflict Minerals·55 Conflict Minerals protocol and facilitates member companies, including LGE’s, to use OUR APPROACH minerals produced from certified smelters and ultimately contribute to resolving the conflicts. • Establish a system for effectively responding to regulations on conflict minerals LG Electronics’ Stance on Conflict Minerals Actively participate in the industry-wide responses to conflict LGE requires its suppliers to establish a ban on the use of conflict minerals with goal of eliminating sources of funding to those who minerals and disclose the origins when supplying parts that contain commit human rights abuses four conflict minerals (tantalum, tungsten, tin and gold). Additionally, Raise suppliers’ awareness on the issue and facilitate their we encourage smelters to seek certification by the EICC’s Conflict-Free responses to mitigate the issue with contract and evaluation Smelter Program, while urging our suppliers to purchase minerals produced and traded legally from the conflict areas to minimize the economic impact on related countries. OUR PERFORMANCE LG Electronics’ Response to Conflict Minerals Overview of Conflict Minerals In January 2010, LGE introduced a ban on illegally mined minerals in Over many years and continuing to this day, the Democratic Republic its global sourcing policy. Also in March, we made a request to our of Congo (DRC) located in Central Africa has been ravaged by fierce key tantalum capacitor manufacturers not to use illegally mined minarmed conflicts over the country’s vast reserves of natural resources. erals. A follow-up survey revealed that our suppliers used minerals Armed groups in the eastern DRC have been routinely committing produced in either China or Australia. Shortly after, in August, LGE heinous acts such as massacre, rape and child/forced labor, causing joined the EICC’s Extractives Work Group to participate in the industrysevere suffering and an international outrage. wide effort to resolve the issue. In September the same year, we isConflict minerals including tantalum, tungsten, tin and gold are utisued the “Supplier Code of Conduct,” which includes provisions on lized in diverse industries such as aerospace, home appliance, elecconflict minerals, and amended master purchase agreement forms to tronics, jewelry and medical. The Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC) reflect our position on the issue in October 2011. produces 20% of the world’s tantalum supply. We also conducted a survey to identify suppliers that produce comUnder the conflict minerals reporting provisions (Article 1502) of the ponents containing four conflict minerals (tantalum, tungsten, tin and Dodd-Frank Consumer Protection and Wall Street Reform Act (effective gold) in our supply chain through the internal hazardous material as of July 2010), corporations listed and publically traded in the United management system. According to the survey, about 25,000 types States must disclose in their annual reports whether they are using of components supplied by 800 companies contain the four conflict conflict minerals produced in the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC) minerals, and since January 2012 we have been conducting another and nine neighboring countries (conflict areas). The provision aims to round of survey on those suppliers, using the EICC designed format. prevent violence and exploitation and promote responsible sourcing LG Electronics' Statement on Conflict Minerals click by disclosing businesses using minerals produced from conflict areas in the region. Response of the Electronics Industry The Electronic Industry Citizenship Coalition (EICC) has established FUTURE DIRECTION the Extractives Work Group and is making earnest efforts to resolve this issue. Together with the ICT sector coalition GeSI, the EICC cur• Establish a tracking system for the origins of four conflict minerals rently manages the Conflict-Free Smelter Program, which certifies used in our products smelters that are compliant with the Conflict Free Smelter assessment • Increase the number of CFS certified smelters in our supply chain EICC’s Response on Conflict Minerals CFS Program* Coverage Coverage of Survey on Manufacturers Final Mine Smelter Company Product Regional Supply Smelter Certification CFS Program Survey and Inspection of Origin * The CFS (Conflict Free Smelter) Program: A certification program for conflict free smelters jointly run by the EICC and GeSI (www.conflictfreesmelter.org) 56·2011-2012 LG Electronics Sustainability Report Community If the world is to take a path towards a low carbon, resource efficient Green Economy, we need all hands on deck—governments, cities, the general public and business. This is why the UN Environment Programme looks for corporate partners who are committed to the ideals and the actions underpinning a sustainable 21st century. LGE’s support for UNEP’s Champions of the Earth awards is one, high profile way to catalyze global awareness that change is possible by focusing on the achievements of inspiring individuals ranging from a national leader such as President Calderon of Mexico to Benin’s songstress and eco-activist Angelique Kidjo. A giant screen in New York Time Square also brought the awards home to the thousands of local and international visitors traversing through this famous landmark. The company’s own personal commitment to educating its workforce was demonstrated through World Achim Steiner Environment Day 2011 under the theme ‘Forests: Nature at Your Service’ with 15,000 LGE employees in 45 Executive Director, countries getting involved on 5 June. The United Nations Decoupling resource use from economic growth and generating decent employment must be the ultimate Environment Programme/ aim of a Green Economy in a world of seven billion people rising to nine billion by 2050. With committed Under-Secretary-Genaral, and long term partners like LGE, we have a chance of accelerating and scaling-up such transitions towards The United Nations not only the Future We Want but the future we all need. Community | Social Contribution·57 Social Contribution In 2009, LGE established a global social contribution framework comOUR APPROACH prised of three pillars, “Disease , Environment” and “Poverty” and is closely cooperating with expert international organizations, govern• Work together with diverse stakeholders such as International ments and NGOs. Organizations and NGOs to resolve local community issues based on a long term perspective Providing Differentiated Value to Local Communities • Contribute to society utilizing LGE’s core capabilities Regardless of where we are in the world, including emerging markets, • Put “People-oriented Management” into practice with employee LGE strives to satisfy the needs of local communities and provide difdonations and volunteer work ferentiated value to stakeholders based on the LG Way management principles “Customer-Value Creation”. Our effort to provide differentiated value to local communities is largely comprised of two parts. First, we form a partnership with governOUR PERFORMANCE mental agencies and expert organizations related to the issue at hand, identify the needs of stakeholders, and explore solutions. Second, we LGE’s Social Contribution focus our efforts to make contributions utilizing our core capabilities. LG Electronics bases its social contribution on the “LG Way”. As a guiding principle for every LGE employee’s thinking and action, the Partnership with International Organizations · Since 2008, LGE has LG Way articulates our belief in attaining our vision of becoming “No.1 been collaborating with international organizations to achieve the UN LG” through our management principles “Customer-Value Creation” Millennium Development Goals in the three focus areas of its social and “People-Oriented Management”. contribution effort – diseases, environment and poverty. The partnerRegardless of where we are in the world, LGE strives to satisfy the ship between LGE and international organizations creates a synergisneeds of local communities and provide differentiated value to staketic effect in identifying the needs of stakeholders and beneficiaries in holders. The value LGE provides in this case is contribution to resolvthe local community, collecting information on relevant trends, and ing international issues utilizing our core capabilities. Also, “Peopleresolving issues. Including the partnership with the International VacOriented Management” stands for all global LGE members actively cine Institute started in 2008 for disease prevention, LGE is running participating in volunteer works and donations as responsible memvarious global partnership programs, including the partnership with bers of the local community and strengthening the bonds between the United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP) and the United LGE and stakeholders, including customers, local communities and Nations World Food Programme (WFP). residents. Disease According to the 2011 report released by the United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP) on World Water Day, each year 2011 Social Contribution in Numbers around 2.2 million people succumbed to waterborne diseases such as diarrhea and malaria over the past five years. The report also 3,044,000 109% 15,670 states that waterborne diseases are to blame for 3.7% of fatalities and more than half of hospital admissions in the world. Provided meals to 3,044,000 Supported start-up social 15,670 LGE employees people through SNS campaigns enterprises and help increase participated in Global · Vaccination As such, LGE has their revenues by 109% Volunteer Day been cooperating with the InterDistribution of Oral Vaccine national Vaccine Institute and Social Contribution Framework Slogan Hope for Life’s Good Providing sustainable solutions for the global disease, environment and poverty Goal (Contribute to achievement of the UN Millennium Development Goals) Disease Environment Poverty Focus Area Prevent Environmental Diseases Promote Environmental Sustainability Eradicate Poverty in Developing Countries Vaccination Support in Partner of “Champions of the Earth” LG Hope School/LG Hope Village/ Program Developing Countries Life’s Green Class LG Hope Family 58·2011-2012 LG Electronics Sustainability Report supporting its development of vaccines for waterborne diseases to be the President of Mexico, environmental scientists and activists who distributed in developing countries. Vaccines developed through the inspired the world to participate in responding to climate change were partnership will be used in a large scale vaccination in Ethiopia slated honored with the award, considered as the world's most important for 2012. and renowned environmental accolade. Environment According to the 2011 Millennium Development Goals · Life's Green Class To foster the future generation with a high level of Report released by the U.N., while progress has been made in such arenvironmental awareness and strong sense of responsibility towards eas as access to clean drinking water and expansion of net forest area, the issue, LGE has been providing environmental science classes for global GHG emissions have grown by 38% between 1990 and 2008, children since 2006. Operated in corporation with the Teenagers into Sciand are expected to increase continuously due to human lifestyles. ence and Technology Center at Hanyang University, this program made As a responsible global citizen, LGE sponsors UNEP’s Champions of around fifty visits to elementary schools and science fairs nationwide the Earth Award and supports enviand gave presentations and classes ronmental education for the future concerning science and the environgeneration to raise awareness of ment to a total of 12,325 children. In the issue. 2010, the program was introduced in India, visiting a total of seventy · UNEP’s Champions of the Earth schools per year and educating over Award In May 2011, LGE partici70,000 children. With the participapated in UNEP’s Champions of the tion of 81,847 Korean children and Earth Awards Ceremony held in 89,010 Indian children, the program 2011 Champions of the Earth Award Life's Green Class in India New York as an exclusive corporate is raising awareness of environCeremony partner. Including Felipe Calderon, mental issues among children. Effort to Achieve UN MDGs Adopted by 192 world leaders in the year 2000 and set to be achieved by 2015, the United Nations Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) are an international pledge to reduce the world population living below the poverty line by half. There are eight international development goals including the eradication of extreme poverty and hunger as well as diseases. UN MDGs Key LGE Activity 1 Poverty Trained some 25,000 residents from 15 LG Hope Villages in Ethiopia on how to reclaim farmland to help them Eradication eradicate poverty by increasing agricultural productivity 2 Education Provided school lunch to students at 15 LG Hope Schools in Kenya, and also supported improvements & repairs for school facilities to promote basic education for children 3 Gender Equality Helped women in 2,000 LG Hope Family develop their potential with “Food for Training” in Bangladesh 4 Infant/Toddler In partnership with the International Vaccine Institute, supported the development of vaccines for waterborne Health diseases in Ethiopia and is ready for conducting a large scale vaccination for children 5 Maternity Health Operated around 65 free breast cancer mobile check-up center in Kazakhstan 6 Disease Utilizing “LG Here 4U” visiting bus service, along with repairs provided free medical check-ups to villagers in Eradication Philippines 7 Sustainability Holds Global Volunteer Day in 44 countries in 2011 with employee participation to commemorate World Environment Day (June 5) 8 Global In partnership with the WFP, developed a charitable app for LG Smart TV that shares information on poverty issues Partnership and facilitates instant donations Community | Social Contribution·59 Poverty Upon launching the Poverty-Environment Initiative (PEI), the cludes employing corporate infrastructure such as large size digital United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) and the United Nabillboards, SNS channels, products, etc. in promoting important social tions Environment Programme (UNEP) clearly elaborated on povertyissues and raising public awareness. With its talent donation, LGE is environment linkages. People struggling with poverty are more likely not only providing new information and value to the public, but also to rely heavily on environmental resources for food and fire wood, helping partner organizations – International Organizations and NGOs thus accelerating the destruction of the environment, which in turn expand communications channels. exacerbates poverty. The 2011 Millennium Development Goals Report states that although the world population living below the poverty line · LG Smart TV App “WeFeedBack” In 2011, LGE, together with the WFP, is decreasing, they are still suffering from malnutrition and exclusion developed a donation app “WeFeedBack” for LG Smart TV. LG Smart from education. TV users around the world can now access information on poverty isAs part of its effort to address climate change issues and assist unsues and make donations easily via WeFeedBack. derdeveloped countries to establish a basis for self-sufficiency, LG Electronics is operating “LG Hope Series”, a program designed to · SNS Campaign LGE, in association with the United Nations World help reduce poverty in the Horn of Africa and Asia. The program also Food Programme, ran a donation campaign for Ethiopia on its Faceprovides educational support for children and teenagers to foster the book page and blog for the month of December 2011. A total of 3,936 future generations in the regions. people participated in the campaign and raised USD 341,034, which was used to provide meals to 3,044,000 Ethiopians. · LG Hope Series LG Hope Series is a poverty eradication program In Korea, LGE organized a blood donation drive with a strong reLGE operates in association with the WFP for developing countries in sponse from over 1,200 LGE employee participants. LGE also made the Horn of Africa and Asia. LGE has been providing free school meals matching donations on the number of SNS posts on the event and for children in Kenya (LG Hope School) and Ethiopia (LG Hope Village) assisted two children suffering from intractable diseases by arranging since 2009 to promote children’s education and support farmland recappropriate surgeries. lamations to improve each village’s farming productivity. About 40,000 people received support from LG Hope Series in the year 2011 alone. · LG Hope Screen In 2011, LGE offered its digital billboard in New In 2011, LGE launched the LG Hope Family program in Bangladesh York’s Times Square to International Organizations for three months. and Cambodia. In this program similar to Korea’s “New Community Through the event, called “LG Hope Screen”, LGE was able to raise Movement”, a total of 7,000 households are receiving support to sepublic awareness of the environment and poverty eradication issues cure a basis for self-sufficiency. and was praised for creating a brand new format for stakeholder engagement. · Scholarship Quiz Competition As part of its effort to foster future talent and promote education, LGE is sponsoring a scholarship quiz competiManagement Consulting for Start-Up Social Enterprises (Korea) LGE tion in Vietnam and Azerbaijan. In Vietnam, the company also identifies made an agreement with the Ministry of Employment and Labor and future talent through the competition, which LG has been sponsoring the Ministry of Environment to provide support to social enterprises since 1999, and the winners are offered a job opportunity with LGE. on environment, which applies commercial strategies to maximize improvements in human and environmental well-being. To support Social Contribution Utilizing Core Capabilities · At the 3rd Stakeholder their cause and establishment, LGE financially supports start-up social Consultation held under the theme of social contribution in 2011, enterprises and transfers its management know-how to them. Our fostakeholders suggested that LGE should explore ways to utilize its cus in this program is on fostering start-up social enterprises with an core business capabilities, such as technology, marketing and promoemphasis on environmental issues to create green jobs. tion, in making social contributions. Following their suggestion, LGE In 2011, LGE selected ten start-ups and financed their initial investis actively utilizing its core capabilities to make differentiated efforts ments, while organizing an advisory board and providing consulting and resolve social issues as well as support partner organizations at on management strategy. As a result, all ten start-ups posted an home and abroad to improve their institutional capabilities. average annual growth of 109% in revenues and created 19 jobs. Additionally, LGE is sharing its know-how on HR, organization, perforCorporate Talent Donation LGE’s utilization of core capabilities goes mance management through the “Management Training for Social beyond creating new value through technological support and inEnterprises”. LG Hope Family in Cambodia LG Scholarship Quiz Competition “WeFeedBack” Demonstration with LG Hope Screen Campaign on LGE’s in Vietnam Secretary General Ban Ki Moon of the New York Times Square Billboard United Nations 60·2011-2012 LG Electronics Sustainability Report · Productivity Consulting As part of its support programs for start· “Life’s Good Volunteers” Started in 2005 as an “Open Call for Volunup social enterprises, the LGE Labor Union provided productivity teer Work”, volunteer activities by LGE Employees expanded to talent improvement consulting to small E-waste recycler Eco City Seoul in sharing with the 2010 launching of “Life’s Good Volunteers”. Volunteers 2011. Experienced technical staff from the LGE Labor Union provided selected from each business site engage in a variety of volunteer work the consulting with a focus on productivity improvement through the for isolated and marginalized members from the local communities, elimination of hazardous processes and improving worksite environincluding photo shoots for elderly citizens, tutoring for children and ment. As a result, Eco City Seoul’s productivity improved by almost teenagers, and art classes by designers, utilizing their special talents, 50%, and the company secured greater competitiveness. interest and expertise. · Global Volunteer Day LGE designated World Environment Day (June 5) as Global Volunteer Day in 2010 and has been participating in volunteer work all around the world. In 2011, a total of 15,670 employees from 44 countries participated in activities to protect the environment. Management Training for Social Productivity Improvement Consulting Enterprises FUTURE DIRECTION • Provide differentiated value utilizing LGE’s core technology “Respecting Human Dignity” with Employees (Water Solutions and Photovoltaics) The first clause of LG Electronics’ Charter of Social Contribution es• Discover and promote social contribution BP of subsidiaries in the tablished in 2005 states that “Through the cooperation between labor emerging markets and management, LGE shall not only fulfill its original purpose of en• Encourage employee participation in social contribution gaging in business activities as a corporation, but also make overarching efforts into social contribution such as donations on generated profits and employees’ direct participation in volunteer work.” Employee participation programs based on creativity and autonomy go beyond traditional cash donations and volunteer work and expand into knowledge and talent donations. In 2011, LGE engaged in diverse donation campaigns, including“Life’s Good Day” (employees choose to have a simpler menu from the company cafeteria and donate the difference), to provide greater contribution opportunities for its employees. · Salary Rounding Fund and Executive Contribution Fund The Salary Rounding Fund is raised with the voluntary participation of more than 96% of LGE Korea employees. The fund is managed by the Labor Union led Salary Rounding Fund Committee and used to support local disaster relief and employees dealing with hardships. In 2011, the fund was used to help victims of flooding in Thailand and the earthquake in Turkey. The Executive Contribution Fund is raised with the participation of more than 85% of the LGE Korea executives who donate a set amount from their monthly salaries. LGE also makes matching donations on the amount raised. The fund is used to support the vaccine development effort. 1 2 3 1 Life’s Good Volunteers 2 Global Volunteer Day 3 Life’s Good Day Community | Social Contribution·61 LGE’s Social Contribution around the World LG Electronics is making every effort to spread hope to local communities throughout the world. We are expanding contact points with customers to identify the needs of local communities, while forming partnerships with a variety of stakeholders such as International Organizations, governments and NGOs to resolve social issues. Greece | Made by You Russia | Blood Donation Mexico | Water for U Received clothes donations from cusAs the first corporate partner for the Invested USD 30,000 from washing tomers, washed them clean with LGE Russian government (since 2009), the machine sales profits and installed a washing machines and passed them subsidiary organized 32 blood donation total of 28 water tanks at local villages onto neighbors in need. For a week drives with the participation of LGE emsuffering from drinking water shortages, in May 2011, more than 97 boxes of ployees and celebrities, including Olymfreeing more than 4,400 villagers from clothes were collected and donated to pic medalists, and saved some 9,249 worries over drinking water for the next those in need. lives since 2009. 30 years. Russia China Greece Korea Mexico Saudi Arabia Indonesia Korea | LG Afforestation Project The AE Company signed an Saudi Arabia | IT Academy for Women agreement with Changwon Opened an IT academy to Cit y in 20 09 to est ablish offer free IT training (interlow-carbon green forests. net and computer) to Saudi Based on the agreement, the women, promoting education company recently completed for women. its fourth forest with the participation of 380 employees, planting 400 trees on the 2,644 square meter site. The effort was recognized in 2011 as a ”Model Business in Social Contribution” by the Changwon City Government. China | Earth Hour Indonesia | LG Click and Donate Organized an event to particiLGE Indonesia (LGEIN) held pate in Earth Hour 2011. Lights a rice donation campaign were turned off at the producutilizing its Facebook page. tion sites in Taizhou, Tianjin, The subsidiary donated 250g Qinhuangdao and Hangzhou of rice for every click made and Beijing LG Twin Towers, on the campaign web page the subsidiary office and doror twit made concerning the mitories for an hour. A total of campaign. A total of seven 4,779 employees participated tons of rice was donated durin the event and saved 5,260kWh of electricity. ing the campaign and passed onto 14 welfare facilities. 62·2011-2012 LG Electronics Sustainability Report Employee While studying in Korea away from my home country of Rwanda, I became greatly interested in a job opportunity with LG Electronics. Luckily, my dream for developing capabilities at LGE came true and I am very happy to have the opportunity to become acquainted with the Korean work environment and learn the communication process with peers and superiors through a variety of training programs. I have also acquired basic knowledge related to my future position as a marketer, such as product information and marketing strategies. LGE as a company provides an atmosphere that promotes creativity and innovation throughout the organization, making it truly competitive in the global marketplace. Well aware of the challenges and opportunities of doing businesses in the emerging markets such as Africa, Angel Mukankunga Bisamaza I look forward to the day when I can fully utilize the capabilities I have developed during the time I spent at Washing Machine Marketing HQ. With passion, hope and resilience, I hope to contribute to LGE’s drive to become No.1 in the East Afri2 Team, HA Company can market, based on its leadership in product and service quality. Employee | Corporate Culture/Work & Life Balance·63 Corporate Culture/Work & Life Balance Creativity & Autonomy Index from the LG Way Survey OUR APPROACH 2009 67 • Based upon the “LG Way”, establish a corporate culture that encourages creativity and autonomy 2010 77 • Help LG Electronics realize its vision by putting the LG Way into practice and promoting communication based on trust and mutual 2011 75 respect · Office staff from domestic and overseas offices · Up until 2009, this section was divided into three sub areas of “encouraging challenge OUR PERFORMANCE and trial,” “open communication,” and “empowerment” but consolidated into “Respect for Creativity & Autonomy” in 2010. Direct Communication Across the Organization In order to establish a corporate culture that encourages creativity ship style that encourages employees to be creative, and to exercise and autonomy based on the “LG Way”, LGE is making ongoing efforts discretion. (Example: “I am given discretion to take an initiative based to promote communication built on trust and mutual respect among on my ideas and judgment when working towards meeting the comits members. In 2011, driven by the new CEO’s strong initiative, our pany’s goal”, “My boss allows and encourages me to make a move problem solving approach for inter-organizational issues has been that no one has tried or has never been tried in the past”, etc.) expanded to direct, vertical communication from direct (face-to-face), The results of the 2011 LG Way Survey showed that positive responses horizontal communication. in the “creativity & autonomy” area have fallen two percentage points We also utilize a “Voice of the Frontline” program to collect opinions compared to the previous year, reversing the trend of continual imof our members, establishing a direct channel called Mr. CEO Email provement we have seen over the past few years. We believe this account and passing the collected opinions onto top management. In trend is only temporary, and is likely attributable to our having to the past year, a total of 243 messages were sent to the account, and focus the attention on the tough business climate and strengthening the CEO reviewed each and every one of them himself. He also orgafundamentals in preparation for the future. nized a monthly meeting to make direct communication with memWe are striving to mitigate this situation, and are creating a work envibers from diverse backgrounds and positions. “Mr. CEO Pizza” was ronment where our members feel free to voice their creative opinions organized as a surprise event to encourage members who exerted and incorporate them into businesses. As part of this initiative, we are themselves to overcome tough business conditions and produce reutilizing the intranet message board as a forum for free exchange of sults, delivering pizzas as well as a pleasant surprise to 29 teams (20 ideas and encouraging our members to post creative ideas about how Korean and 9 overseas) in 2011. to run the organization and products (272 posts on Junior Board, 1,574 Such communication efforts have been expanded to the entire orgaposts on Idea Board). The ideas posted on the message board are fornization and are facilitating vibrant communication, helping members warded to relevant departments and reviewed for their practicality on to overcome differences in position, age, language and culture, and an ongoing basis. encouraging participation in face-to face, direct communication. This positive change is also contributing to developing members’ sense A Culture of Participation Driven by Voice of the Employee (VOE) of belonging and ownership and ultimately strengthening teamwork. Another important pillar of LGE’s For example, over 100 LGE Communicators selected as volunteers are corporate culture is a culture which working hard to increase members’ sense of belonging and ownerrespects the “Voice of the Employee ship by covering interesting internal news, and acting as ombudsmen (VOE)”. To fully incorporate their for internal magazine, Pride LG and engaging in internal and external opinions, we listen to our employpromotions. ees prior to and after decision making on important policies. For example, after the 2011 corporate slogan “Fast, Strong & Smart” was announced, we conducted a “VOE” survey of members’ take on “Smart” and what they need to work smart. Based on the survey Use of Smart-it results, we have produced and dis“Mr. CEO Pizza” in Iran CEO Open Communication tributed “Smart-it” (a post-it style memo pad designed to increase clarity and efficiency in business communication). Efforts to Improve Work Environment Change Agents (CA) and Junior Board (JB: Staff Council) are playWith the annual “LG Way Survey”, LGE assesses its effectiveness in ing an important role to bolster a culture of participation among our creating a positive work environment in which employees feel their members. As motivators and communicators, Change Agents are creativity and autonomy is promoted, and then implements improveleading various activities to bring about changes in the organization, ments based on the results. In the LG Way Survey, members are and JB members are communicating employees’ opinions to top mansolicited to provide inputs describing a work environment and leaderagement and engaging in diverse activities to protect employees’ rights. 64·2011-2012 LG Electronics Sustainability Report 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 6 8 1 Corporate R&D (Korea), Open Lab 5 MC Company (Korea), “I am the President” Event 2 Korea Marketing Company (Korea), Volunteer Mural Painting 6 HA Company (Korea), Talent Audition “Star Discovery HA” 3 China Nanjing Subsidiary, Children’s Day Family Event 7 HE Company (Korea), 3D Game Festival 4 Peru Subsidiary, Fathers’ Day Soccer Competition 8 Korea Marketing Company, Informal Group “X-band” Events and Programs for Members’ Family audition “Star Discovery HA”, offering members a chance to show off LG Electronics offer various programs for employees’ family memtheir talent and have fun with their colleagues. The HE Company orgabers to strengthen their sense of belonging and ownership. nized the “CINEMA 3D Game Festival” to provide an opportunity for its members to experience our products and strengthen teamwork. Korea: Open Lab ∙ Weekend Family Farm ∙ Volunteer Mural PaintIn order to help designers find creative inspirations, the Corporate ing · Corporate R&D is running the “Open Lab” events, where the Design Center encourages them to have a diverse cultural experience family members of researchers are offered a tour of the facility and every quarter. introduced to technology and products. The Production Engineering LGE also provides financial support to Informal Groups internal comResearch Institute offers members a plot in their “Weekend Family munities for members with shared interests and hobbies. Highly popFarm” and supports members and their family to experience the joy ular among members including executives, over 240 Informal Groups of farming. Members of the Korea Marketing Company and their famare active in Korea alone and overseas offices are catching up fast. ily members participate in a voluntary activity of painting murals for welfare facilities. LG Electronics Spain and Peru Subsidiaries Named as India: Summer FUN Camp for Employees’ Children · LGE India “2011 Great Place to Work” Subsidiary organized Summer FUN Camp for employees’ children enrolled in 10 schools in Delhi and Pune. During the 30 day camp, over LGE Spain and Peru Subsidiaries were named as 500 children had a great time learning how to make public speeches, “2011 Great Place to Work Top 50” in Spain and how to skate, and how to play musical instruments. Latin America respectively. The list is compiled by the Great Place to Work Institute, which releases China: Children’s Day Family Event · On Children’s Day, LGE Chian annual ranking for great companies to work na Subsidiary (Nanjing) hosts a family event for employees and their for by conducting employee surveys from the offices located in 37 counfamily members and offers a great fun fair with 3D movie screenings, tries, including the U.S. and the European nations. LGE Spain Subsidiary science class, amusement rides, etc. (LGEES) was ranked 11th with high scores in such areas as work environment, communication, employees’ pride for the company, equal opportunity, respect for human dignity, and teamwork. The Peru Subsidiary Peru: Diverse Family Events for Employees and Their Family (LGEPR) was selected as one of the best multinationals to work for (ranked Members · LGE Peru Subsidiary hosts 10 to 12 events, such as Fathers’ 33rd) in Latin America, based on a survey conducted amongst 2 million+ Day Soccer Competition, LG Family Summer Program and Christmas employees from 1,900 companies in 11 countries, receiving high marks Card Competition, for employees and their family members year particularly for extending care to member families. round. Making a Fun Place to Work LGE is engaging in a corporate-wide campaign to encourage members to work efficiently and have fun at work. Originating from a suggestion from the Junior Board (Staff Council), the campaign focuses on simplifying the reporting process, making overtime more producFUTURE DIRECTION tive, getting off work on time, taking full advantage of vacation time and bolstering communication with management. • Increase efficiency and produce results based on the MC Company runs a program called “I am the President,” which “Be First, Do it right, Work Smart” offers the president’s car to members celebrating special occasions. • Corporate Culture Facilitating “Work & Life Balance”: Meanwhile, HA Company is creating a fun workplace with a talent Fun Place to Work, Happy Employees Employee | Talent Management·65 Talent Management Status of New Hires (Korea) Unit: No. of New Hires OUR APPROACH 2009 2,075 • Secure global talent and foster them with systematic HR management 2010 4,655 Secure quality talent from Korea and overseas Develop individual capabilities based on the Training Roadmap 2011 5,437 Establish a global talent training program OUR PERFORMANCE Talent Sought by LGE Those who are totally committed to the LG Way and possess strong execution skills Those who strive to become best in Those who put customers first 2011 Recruit Event the world with passion and inspiration and never cease to innovate to explore diverse ways to locate talented and experienced professionals to develop new business and build a ground for future businesses. Those who promote teamwork and Those who continually develop cawork with creativity and autonomy pabilities and compete with integrity Career Development Program LGE operates a career development management program in conjunction with the performance evaluation process for all its office HR Recruitment Activities employees. All LGE members have regular one-on-one caring interLG Electronics actively pursues HR recruitment efforts with an emview with their managers to establish a vision for personal developphasis on strengthening R&D capability to secure product competiment and a detailed training plan to achieve it. As an outcome of this tiveness. We are attracting quality R&D talent by hosting recruitment meeting, LGE designs a career development and training plan approevents at universities in Korea and overseas and expanding industrypriate for each member's needs and also discusses their grievances academia programs. and support needed to achieve established objectives. In 2012, LGE plans to hold the LG Techno Conference in partnership Additionally, at the Talent Development Committee which is estabwith other companies within LG Group to attract top global talent lished at each organization, executives and organization leaders regufrom a variety of fields and foster them within LGE’s core talent pool. larly monitor members’ development results and provide necessary In addition to regular recruitment events, from 2012 we are planning support for employee's systematic career development. Major HR Recruit Program (HQ) Program Details Long-term Internship Recruits talented science and engineering undergraduate students semiannually and provides semester training opportunities. Industry-Academia Project Job offers are extended based on individual performance during the internship period (students earn credit for the semester). Offers scholarships to outstanding researchers (Master or Ph.D candidates) who have participated in LGE’s Industry-Academia Scholarship projects. Individuals are hired upon completion of degree. Customized Talent Requires Master or Ph.D candidates from universities that sign an MOU with LGE to complete specific coursework, tailoring Development their capabilities to company needs. Individuals are hired upon completion of degree. North America Introduces LGE’s technology and research direction to local R&D professionals and recruits outstanding talent via interviews Techno Conference by executives. Global Talent Global recruit managers in North America, Japan, etc. establish a network with local talent and recruit outstanding talent Rolling Recruitment Recruiting when available Others The HR recruitment team from HQ conducts recruitment interviews at local universities (Europe, Japan, etc.) 66·2011-2012 LG Electronics Sustainability Report Business Leader Development Program LGE is committed to providing its members every opportunity to deLG Electronics identifies employees who have great potential as busivelop their capabilities through our well designed training system, ness leaders at the early stages of their careers and systematically including the annual capability development plan. trains them. Employees selected into a business leader pool are asked to establish a career development plan suitable for their developmenFunction College (Korea) tal track (business leader, function leader, and expert) based on the Category No. of Course Category No. of Course standard training roadmap. Additionally, they are required to make R&D 243 Marketing 53 (including Brand Mgmt.) specific plans for developing professional capabilities and leadership SW 53 (including SW Quality Mgmt.) SCM 14 (including Demand Mgmt.) skills and choose a challenging task assignment to perform. Purchasing 15 (including General Purchasing) CS 19 (including General Service) Employees to be trained as business leaders undergo an assessment Production 23 (including Basics of 26 (including Production System) Finance by the internal Assessment Center, which assesses their quality as Technology Management Planning) potential business leaders and provides support to address training Quality 14 (including Quality Mgmt.) HR 24 (including Basics of HR) requirements. The center also monitors individual progress, performs an annual assessment and reorganizes the pool based on the results, Training Performance by Year a design to provide all employees with an opportunity to be selected Category 2009 2010 2011 into the business leader pool. Training hours per employee* (Staff/hrs.) 50 56 62 Investment in Training Total 35.6 63.7 71.9 LG Functional Training System (Unit: KRW billion) (Korea) (26.3) (39.6) (54.9) In order to foster top class experts in diverse business functions, LGE * Training hours presented in last year’s report only included internal offline programs. is operating the Business Function College offering training programs Due to a change in the preparation standards, we are presenting training hours includin 10 different business functions. Internal experts in each field paring language courses, online training programs and external training from this year. ticipate in developing coursework and providing lectures. The college assists all LGE employees to develop relevant capabilities and offers Overseas Employee Training them an opportunity to acquire the requisite knowledge to later beLocally hired employees at LGE’s overseas subsidiaries and offices come experts themselves. also go through the identical training system as their Korean colCurrently, LGE is increasing its investment in employee training by leagues. We not only invite them to receive training at HQ but also 10% every year to provide greater opportunities to its employees. provide training courses from 14 global learning centers located in major cities (Paris, Beijing, Dubai, Sao Paulo, etc.) worldwide from MBA Assignment and Training Based on Career Development Plan 2007. At the Global Learning Center, local training specialists develop Every year, Leaders who are responsible for Career Development idenand offer training courses tailored to local training needs. tify the qualities and aspirations of their team members and design a capability development plan for each member through one-on-one Training Results Assessment caring interview. Based on the plan, LGE employees are provided with As part of its effort to elevate the quality of training programs, LGE intraining programs designed to develop professional capabilities, optroduced Net Promoter Score (NPS) in 2006 to assess training results portunities to participate in a project, overseas transfer and overseas and implemented it throughout all training programs a year later. This MBA programs offered by the world’s most renowned universities. helped us to provide superior training programs by enabling relevanTalent Training Roadmap Development Phase Development Track High Potential Position Business Leader Function Leader Expert Individual Pool Company or Region CXO·Office Leader Executive Representative President Senior Research Fellow Business Leader Candidate Pool (Senior Business Unit Leader or Center or R&D Leader Manager to Executive) Subsidiary President Research Fellow· Senior Manager Business Division Leader· Specialty Fellow (Principle Research Engineer) PBL*** Department or GLP* (Manager to Senior Team Leader Department or Team Leader Team Leader·Part Leader Manager) Manager (Senior and Chief Research Engineer) Part Leader or Project·Task Leader EIP** (Assistant to Manager) Assistant or Acquire basic professional capabilities Assistant Manager through work experience; explore and determine suitable developmental tracks. (Research Engineer) * GLP: Global Leadership Pool / ** EIP: Early Identified Pool / *** PBL: Product Business Leader Employee | Talent Management·67 cy and congruency of programs, as well as service quality (instructor, 9 years. 497 temporary workers make up 1.4% of the entire workforce program, etc.), andmake appropriate improvements accordingly. and 468 employees with disabilities make up 1.3% all LGE employees. Diversity Management Use of Childbirth and Maternity Leave (Korea) LG Electronics is a global enterprise with 86% of its sales generated Category 2009 2010 2011 from overseas (in 2011). We strive to provide differentiated value to Male 0 1 9 customers worldwide. To this end, we established and declared a laNo. of Employees Using Leave bor policy against discrimination, facilitating an environment in which Female 298 313 403 individuals with diverse values and beliefs can work together as a Male 100% 100% Return Rate after Leave team. Additionally, LGE created a variety of communication channels Female 100% 100% 100% and promotes a work & life balance for its employees. Percentage of Employees Remaining Male 100% 89% LGE is making every effort to create a working environment where at work for 12 months or longer after social minorities (to include females, foreigners and the disabled) are returning from Leave (= retention rate) Female 83% 84% 86% respected and not subjected to discrimination or any inconvenience based on our company’s belief that such a working environment leads to greater competitiveness. As of year-end 2011, among 91,045 LGE employees, 28.3% are female FUTURE DIRECTION and 61.2% are from overseas. The average turnover rate was 25.6% (Korea: 6%, Overseas: 37.6%), showing a small increase from the previous • Continue to secure quality R&D professionals from Korea and overseas year. Out of 5,770 female employees from Korea, 62.8% are office staff • Provide systematic training for the Global Leadership Pool and 33.5% work at production sites, with 1.5% of female employees serv• Support all LGE employees at home and abroad to meet their career ing as executives. The average work experience of Korean employees is development targets Female Employees Unit: No. of Employees Number of Overseas Employees Unit: No. of Employees Korea 29.2% 28.3% Korea 65.2% 64.8% 26.7% 61.2% Overseas Overseas 25,739 24,200 90,578 91,045 23,992 5,770 82,136 31,840 35,286 4,577 5,179 28,597 58,738 55,759 53,539 19,415 19,021 19,969 2009 2010 2011 2009 2010 2011 Female Employees by Position (Korea, 2011) Difference Valued at the Production Line for the Disabled Total 5,770 At LGE Changwon II Plant, we have a special proEmployees duction line where twelve employees with hearing Staff 98.44% Manager 1.53% Executive 0.03% impairment are always busy at work. While the usual air conditioner production lines have a 180m straight linear structure, this production line forms a 50m-radius circle, allowing the workers to face each Turnover Rate Korea Overseas other and communicate in sign language. After the production line was established in 2010, 4.9% 6.0% there once was a concern over productivity but it 2010 2011 turned out to be completely unnecessary; the pro30.7% 37.6% duction line showed 15% higher productivity than average. The excellent performance is attributable to strong teamwork facilitated by frequent communication and a strong drive Percentage of Temporary Percentage of Disabled to perform better than other production lines as well as the line manager who Employees (Korea) Employees (Korea) took sign language courses after hours at the Korea Association of the Deaf to provide greater support to his line members. Most of the employees with hearing impairment have been with LGE over 2009 1.7% 2009 1.0% 15 to 20 years and have strong loyalty towards the company for giving them opportunities and rewards equal to other employees as well as stable employ2010 1.0% 2010 1.3% ment. LGE plans to hire greater numbers of disabled employees as well as develop training programs tailored to their needs and make necessary infra2011 1.4% 2011 1.3% structure improvements. 68·2011-2012 LG Electronics Sustainability Report Fair Evaluation and Rewards Starting in 2011, LGE now employs a performance incentive system OUR APPROACH for production staffs on a semiannual basis to strengthen their sense of responsibility towards quality. • Establish a corporate culture promoting excellent performance with fair evaluation and rewards Competitive, Merit-Based Reward System Establish and manage a fair and objective performance evaluation Based on an evaluation of employees’ performance for 2011, LGE resystem warded high performers with differentiated compensation, encouragProvide a competitive reward system based on fair evaluation ing them to perform well continuously. For those who need improveSystematically manage the global HR process ment, the company provides clear feedback and coaching, supporting and encouraging them to enhance their future performance. Additionally, LGE is making ongoing efforts to improve its salary competitiveOUR PERFORMANCE ness to attract quality talent in Korea as well as from overseas. While maintaining the incentive system that offers bonuses to all employees Accurate and Objective Performance Evaluation based on the company’s performance, we are also offering regular/on LG Electronics has a standardized corporate-wide regulatory process the spot incentive bonuses based on individual performance. which governs its evaluation and incentive systems for its employees The minimum wage for newly hired employees is 325% higher (office (except for new recruits, contract employees and freelancers). We constaff) than the legal minimum wage, as of year-end 2011. There is no duct performance evaluations based on employee abilities to meet salary gap between male and female employees and all employees goals, the difficulty of the goals, and other performance indicators, are compensated fairly based on individual merit. with a team performance review conducted once a year. The result of the performance evaluation is reflected in the individual’s pay raise Payroll Costs for the Past Three Years (Korea) Unit: KRW billion and incentive bonus, and the team performance review is reflected upon promotion. In addition to the annual performance evaluations of employees and 2009 2,079.5 teams, we also conduct a performance evaluation covering the past three years, and a comprehensive evaluation that assesses the overall 2010 2,173.5 potential of our employees. Results are reflected on the individual’s promotion and assignment. Additionally, managers undergo a 3602011 2,488.5 degree multi-faceted evaluation of their leadership once a year. For technical staffs, we conduct a semiannual evaluation based on · Payroll Costs: Direct and Indirect (Allowance for Severance Pay, Benefits) Payroll Costs comprehensive criteria such as professional knowledge, teamwork ability, sense of responsibility, management ability and performance. Systematic Management of the Global HR Process LGE is continuously improving the Global Evaluation System adopted Evaluation Criteria for Office/Production Staff in 2009 and employing a corresponding Global Total Reward (GTR) Category Evaluation Criteria system, with which the company efficiently manages a standardized Office Performance, Team Performance, Competence, Leadership, etc. and corporate-wide HR system and process. From a long-term perspective, a policy that considers multi-cultural environments will be Performance, Professional Knowledge, Teamwork Ability, Sense Production implemented in various ways. Additionally, LGE will make an ongoing of Responsibility, Leadership, Management Capability, etc. effort to improve its HR data collection process at home and abroad. Performance Evaluation System In-Year Performance Overall Performance FUTURE DIRECTION Needs Meets High • Systematically improve the Global HR system and process • Establish a Global HR system and improve its management efficiency Potential Relative Relative Goal Middle Improvement Expectations Exceptional Evaluation Evaluation Low Needs Solid Outstanding Low Middle High Improvement Leadership or Team Performance Performance for the Past 3 Years → Reflected in Pay Raise → Promotion and and Incentive Bonus Assignment Employee | Labor Rights Protection·69 Labor Rights Protection tional Enterprises, and is also in compliance with the United Nations OUR APPROACH Global Compact and the EICC Code of Conduct. In August 2010, we published Global Labor Policy in 20 different lan• Examine and Strengthen CSR Compliance of All Business and guages and established it as the corporate-wide standard for labor Production Locations rights, and followed up with training to raise awareness of this issue Promote global labor policy and perform pertinent training amongst management and relevant staffers. In particular, CSR staffSurvey potential CSR risk of all production sites and make ers from all Companies underwent a total of six sessions of intensive continuous improvements training on CSR risks based on the EICC standards and management programs for such risks. OUR PERFORMANCE Labor Relations (Korea) Labor-Management Relations is a unique term of LGE used to describe Global Labor Policy the company’s exceptional labor relations built on trust and mutual LG Electronics recognizes the right of all employees to work with respect. In contrast to the conventional term “labor–company reladignity, to have their value as human beings respected and to pursue tions,” which is charged with negative connotations such as conflict happiness during the process of providing their labor to the company. and vertical relationship, Labor-Management Relations represents that Based on our management principle of “People-Oriented Managelabor and management fulfill each other’s role with utmost sincerity ment”, LGE is committed to protecting our employees’ rights. Accordand create exceptional value together. Currently, all employees of LGE ingly, LGE respects and complies with the standards, laws and regulaare eligible to join the Labor Union under the labor collective agreetions established by international institutions and organizations such ment and the union bylaws, and as of the end of 2011 the membership as the Universal Declaration of Human Rights by the United Nations, reached 8,712 employees (about 24% of the total employees in Korea). the ILO Tripartite Declaration of Principles Concerning Multinational In addition to official meetings such as quarterly labor-management Enterprises and Social Policy and the OECD Guidelines for Multinacouncil meetings and annual wage negotiations and collective bargaining, LGE engages in ongoing communication with the Labor Global Labor Policy Union through diverse channels, focusing on labor issues including labor conditions. Upon major changes in our businesses, we also Article 1 Respect for Human Dignity have close discussions with the Union, and agreements made in colArticle 2 Prohibition of Forced Labor lective bargaining are applied to all domestic employees including Article 3 Prohibition of Child Labor non-union members. Article 4 Prohibition of Discrimination Article 5 Work Hours Based on such a relationship built on trust and mutual respect, we Article 6 Wage and Benefits have been able to reach consensus in annual bargaining without disArticle 7 Freedom of Association pute for the past 23 years. In order to collect the voice of non-union Article 8 Compliance with Laws and Regulations members as well, LGE utilizes diverse communication channels such as Junior Board (Administrative Staff Council) and regular meetings with diverse groups (per department, position, etc.). Grievance Resolution Process RESOLUTION Grievances are collected by HR/LR departments & resolved in cooperation with the relevant departments CHANNEL Cultivation Counseling Grievance Center/ Counseling Center JB Council / Labor-Management Council OWNER Team Leader HR & LR JB & Labor Union Topic Grievance Center Junior Board Council · Grievances against the HR system, · Handles issues that are too sensitive · Handles grievances of office employees Monitoring relationship issues, overall career to discuss with the Group Leader · Staff council for office employees & development concerns, suggestions · Handles issues need to be resolved at (Held quarterly) for work environment, etc. the organization level · Discusses various issues relating to Feedback Period · HR/LR departments employees with the management · Regular counseling: twice a year Counseling Center Labor-management Council · Also available year-round upon request · Provides psychiatric counseling and · Handles grievances of production staff therapy by professional counselors · Council for production staff (held quarterly) · Addresses issues for Union members (working conditions, grievances, etc.) Working Work Cultivation HR System Relationship Personal Conditions Environment GRIEVANCE Employee 70·2011-2012 LG Electronics Sustainability Report Employee Grievances Major CSR Risks LG Electronics categorizes and handles employee grievances within Area CSR Risks the following six areas: cultivation, HR system, relationships, personal, working conditions, and work environment. For example, a ·Non-compliance with legal and international standards on Labor & labor rights meeting with a team leader in charge of the unit is recommended for Human Rights ·Violation of human rights and freedom of association resolving employee grievances related to career development, reassignment, performance evaluation, etc. In addition, we established ·Violation of health & safety laws and regulations and “Mr. CEO Email” in 2011 as a channel for reporting grievances directly Health & Safety occupational injury and illness to the CEO, receiving and handling a total of 243 cases. ·Inadequate sanitation, food and housing We have established counseling centers in our domestic business and ·Violation of legal requirements on fair trade production sites and are offering counseling service to employees, Corporate Ethics ·Corruption, embezzlement, bribery and cartel helping them to deal with various issues. This service is also extended ·Violation of laws regulating emission of environmentally to the family members of our employees as a support system. Environmental hazardous materials, substances and pollution Protection ·Violation of laws regulating product ingredients CSR Risk Management Program Since joining the EICC in 2010, LGE has been employing CSR risk management programs meeting international standards to manage Results of CSR Assessment on All Production Sites potential CSR risks, including protection of labor rights. For the month of April 2011, LGE conducted a potential CSR risk asIn 2011, we focused our efforts into expanding such programs, assesssessment on all of its 34 production sites (7 domestic, 27 overseas). ing the risk level of all production sites, verifying the information and In the assessment performed with the EICC self-assessment questionmaking improvements. Through these efforts, LGE respects and pronaire (comprised of 600 questions), we measured the potential risk tects the human rights of all its employees at home and abroad, and level for each site in the areas of labor rights, human rights and ethics, creates safe and environmentally friendly production sites. With our environment, and health & safety. stakeholders such as buyers, investors, NGOs, etc. showing increasAlthough the assessment results indicated that none of LGE’s producing interest in our CSR efforts, we are encouraging and supporting our tion sites are at high risk, we are making ongoing efforts to ensure all suppliers to implement the same process and manage their CSR risks. our production sites are at low risk. (More details on pp.52-54). Risk Level based on CSR Self-Assessment Low Risk Medium Risk High Risk Risk Management Process South South & Region Korea China Central Eastern Others East Asia America Europe Total Score Selection Labor Ethics Environment Monitoring Survey CSR Risk Health & Safety Management Program CSR Risk Management Goals and Plans Response Based on the results of the EICC self-assessment, LGE has established to Buyer Site a goal to lower the risk level of all our production sites to low by 2014. Assessment Inspection and To achieve this objective, we will strengthen CSR management in & Third Party Consulting Verification overall areas, with an emphasis on raising the internal awareness of the issue, improving the consulting process, and identifying and sharing best practices. Survey on Forced Labor (Human Trafficking and Slavery) · What percentage of your workers have a written and signed employment contract? · Does your facility use third-party workforce recruiters? Our CSR risk self-assessment also covered forced labor and potential risks · Who pays the workforce recruiters’ fees? involved with such a heinous practice. The results showed that all production · Who is responsible for safekeeping of travel documents (e.g. passport or visa) sites manufacturing LGE products are free of forced labor, and we are comfor foreign and migrant workers at your facility? mitted to ensuring such practices never occur at our production sites. The · Does your facility have a policy and procedure allowing workers to resign with following questions were used for the assess risk relating to Forced Labor”: no penalty after giving reasonable notice? Employee | Protection of Labor Rights·71 Improvement Goals for Production Sites based on Self-Assessment Results Medium Risk Low Risk FUTURE DIRECTION 2011 68% 32% • Raise corporate-wide awareness of the CSR risk management program 2012 35% 65% • Upgrade CSR risk consulting process and tools 2013 16% 84% • Continue to collect Best Practices on labor rights and share them across the organization 2014 100% • Improve employee grievance handing process in overseas subsidiaries Union Social Responsibility In order to repay customers’ trust and fulfill the responsibility as a corporate Area Key USR Performances in 2011 citizen, the Labor Union of LG Electronics declared Union Social Responsibility (USR) in January 2010 as a pledge for social responsibility. The goal of Governance · Digitized the Labor Union’s accounting system USR is to empower union members based on transparent and ethical union activities and encourage positive economic, social and environmental im· Provided scholarships to suppliers (KRW 11 million) pacts through its forward looking activities. Human · Provided consulting to a social enterprise on improving In the inaugural year, USR focused on strengthening internal capability and Rights productivity (Eco City Seoul) raising awareness on the issue with activities for promoting transparent labor union operations, supporting protection of labor rights in partner companies, Labor · Fostered 17 grievance counselors facilitating communication within the Union, establishing low carbon culture, Practices facilitating compliance with laws and regulations, promoting anti-corruption, · Organized and hosted event for promoting low carbon culture providing scholarships for children of multicultural families and supporting · Global Volunteer Day (15,670 employees worldwide) eradication of global poverty and hunger. The · Chapter specific activities (leaving no leftovers, commuting In 2011, the LGE Labor Union expanded and furthered its breath of activities Environment with bicycles, collecting waste mobile phones, cleaning in diverse areas. First of all, we chose quality improvement as the key task local streams, etc.) for the year to focus on the primary objective of an enterprise customervalue creation through quality competiveness. To this end, the Labor Union Fair Operating · Established and released Code of Ethics engaged in the “USR Quality Improvement Initiative” and contributed to the Practice · Engaged in a campaign advocating “Adhering to Basics” company securing product leadership. In 2012, the Union plans to expand the initiative into overseas subsidiaries. Consumer · Quality improvement activities (quality production line, In January 2011, the LGE Labor Union established and released “Code of Issues quality training, visits to service locations, etc.) Ethics”, a first for corporate labor unions in Korea. All union members have signed and made a pledge to abide by the “LGE Labor Union Code of Ethics,” · Foreign Aid (For 8,942 residents of 19 villages in Chan Sor, which now serves as a guideline for members’ actions in seven areas, includCambodia) ing transparent operation of the Union, maintenance of dignity and honor · Provided airfares to multicultural families work for our and fairness in duty performance. Additionally, the Labor Union identified key Community suppliers for home country visits (40 families) tasks and is making ongoing improvement efforts in the seven key areas laid Involvement · Organized donation drives for suppliers located in Japan out by the ISO 26000, an international standard on Social Responsibility. & (Sent 6,400 ramens and 1,000 masks using KRW 6.4 million The Labor Union plans to extend the successful USR experience and initiaDevelopment collected from the drives) tives such as the quality improvement initiative and relief activities to other · Provided digital TV converters to communities LG group of companies and overseas colleagues in 2012. Also, it will con(20 households) tinue its CSR activities related to the company’s businesses, and build USR · Individual chapter initiatives (free meals, free photographic as an integral part of the Union’s brand. portraits, family month events, etc.) USR Case Presentation USR Quality Improvement Activities Plane Ticket Presentation Ceremony for Aid to Chan Sor Area in Cambodia Multicultural Family 72·2011-2012 LG Electronics Sustainability Report Management Report Our Data Appendix Management Report| |조직문화 Management Report Corporate Governance·73 / 일과 삶의 균형·73 Corporate Governance Shareholders Shareholders' Status As of December 31, 2011 As of year-end 2011, LG Electronics’ total shares issued and outstanding were 180,833,806 (163,647,814 common stock, and 17,185,992 preferred stock). The number of non-voting shares amounted to 17,949,157 or 9.9% of the total outstanding. The largest shareholder, LG Corp. 30.0% 39.5% (the Group’s holding company) owns 30.5% of the shares. Every year, the Chairman of the BOD personally updates shareholders on current management issues at the Annual General Meeting (AGM). Shareholders’ opinions and suggestions are gathered, carefully considered Individuals and by management and the BOD, and are incorporated into corporate Institutional policy. 30.5% Investors LG Corp. Foreign Investors Board of Directors (BOD) The BOD consists of seven Directors, four of whom are Outside Directors. The directors are elected in accordance with the Korean · On December 29, 2011, LGE exercised a paid-in capital increase and issued Commercial Code and other related regulations. The BOD operates 19,000,000 shares of common stock in order to secure resources to invest independently of any influence from major shareholders and managein growth for the future while maintaining a stable financial structure. ment. The Directors’ attendance rate for the BOD meetings is on average 98% (Outside Directors: 97%). The Outside Directors make up the BOD status As of March 31, 2012 majority, with a total of four members. They are appointed at the AGM Category Name Professional Career Notes following a review by the Outside Directors Candidate RecommendaBon Joon Koo CEO, Vice Chairman Management Committee tion Committee, to ensure fairness and transparency in the nomina(Chairman) Inside tion of candidates. Director Management Committee Do Hyun Jung CFO, Executive The Outside Directors monitor overall corporate management activiVice President ties and keep management in check, while offering concrete and subYu Sig Kang Vice Chairman of Chairman of BOD stantial advice to management. The BOD actively provides recommenNonLG Corp. Outside Director Candidate executive Recommendation Committee dations for important management decisions and conducts unbiased (Chairman) Director evaluation and supervision of the management. Management Committee In 2010, the BOD was convened eight times to review a total of 32 In Ki Joo Professor at the Audit Committee (Chairman) agendas (25 for approval, 7 for reporting) including the approval for School of Business, Outside Director Candidate Yonsei University Recommendation Committee paid-in capital increase. During the meeting held in April 2012, the Kyu Min Lee Advisor at the Audit Committee BOD was briefed on CSR activities and amended the BOD bylaws to SK Research Institute Outside Director Candidate include CSR as its official responsibility. (Former Editor-in-Chief Recommendation Committee Outside of The Donga Ilbo) The BOD Bylaws of LG Electronics click Director Sang Hee Kim Attorney (Former Audit Committee Committees Deputy Minister of Justice) The BOD is supported by three Board Committees: the Audit Committee, the Outside Director Candidate Recommendation Committee Chong Nam Chu Professor at the School of Mechanical and and the Management Committee. The Audit Committee is comprised Aerospace Engineering, entirely of three Outside Directors and is responsible for management Seoul National University and corporate oversight, monitoring and scrutinizing corporate financial records and accounting to ensure transparency and compliance Board Committees with the accounting laws. The Management Committee reviews and determines the agendas delegated by the BOD and other ordinary management activities. In 2011, the Management Committee reviewed BOD a total of 44 agendas. Outside Director Candidate Evaluation and Compensation Audit Committee Recommendation Committee Management Committee Compensation for the BOD members is made within the regulations pertaining to BOD compensation that have been approved at the Gen2 Executive Directors eral Shareholder's Meeting. The evaluation of management and execu3 Outside 1 Outside Director 1 Non-Executive Directors 1 Non-executive Director Director tives of LGE is performed year round. Top management and executives are evaluated to determine whether they have set and achieved challenging goals, whether their business objectives comprised of quantitative Review of and and non-quantitative factors were achieved, as well as their capability Audit of Outside Director Decision on Financial and through a fair and objective process. Appropriate compensation based Management Accounting Recommendation Issues Delegated Records on the outcome of the evaluation is determined and made. by the Board 74·2011-2012 LG Electronics Sustainability Report Compliance Risk Management Compliance Risk Management System Since establishing the Compliance Team at HQ in August 2008, LG Electronics has put an enterprise-wide compliance risk management system in place and is carefully managing the risks associated with compliance. About 100 compliance managers are assigned to all Companies, Business Units and overseas subsidiaries and manage the system, while Risk Owners at each organization are responsible for and manage compliance risks associated with the respective business functions. Based on such structure, LGE has established a “field-oriented compliance risk management system” Compliance Management Organization hQ company subsidiary compliance team hr compliance quality managers marketing risk owners logistics Enterprise Online and Offline Compliance Management Program In 2009, LGE established an coporate-wide compliance management program designed to help its employees to become aware of the importance of compliance across business procedures and voluntarily control risks associated with compliance. In 2011, the company created a compliance website that clearly organizes our compliance management program into five phases: 1) establishing internal policies; 2) employee education; 3) risk assessment; 4) risk control; and 5) reporting on status and incident, thereby simplifying the process and providing greater access. Inclusion of Clauses Prohibiting Overseas Bribery in Code of Conduct In recent years, international oversight on the bribery of global corporaLG Electronics’ Compliance Intranet Site tions has been strengthened and the number of legal sanctions against bribery is sharply increasing. Risk associated with bribery is considered as one of the major risks for corporations operating in overseas markets. 1 2 Responding to such changes of international regulations and business environment, LGE amended its Code of Conduct in 2011 to include clauses articulating the risks associated with overseas bribery, listing issues require attention and providing relevant conduct guidelines, as part of its effort to discourage such practice. The amended Code of Conduct has been translated into 17 languages and distributed to our employees worldwide to raise awareness on the issue. Main amendment of Code of Conduct in 2011 Add new overseas anti-bribery principles and guidelines Add new guidelines concerning refurbished products 1 Chapter on “Prohibition of Bribery” from Code of Conduct Update guidelines on product safety defect reporting 2 FAQ on Prevention of Overseas Bribery Update guidelines prohibiting use of pressure tactics towards distributors in order to maintain resale prices Update guidelines concerning use of open-source code Management Management Report Report | Jeong-Do 조직문화 / Management·75 일과 삶의 균형·75 Jeong-Do Management CEO’s Strong Commitment to Jeong-Do Management Once a violation is reported, we conduct a preliminary investigation Jeong-Do Management is LG Electronics’ commitment towards stakeand field investigation to thoroughly verify the facts. Based on invesholders in which we pledge to conduct ourselves with fairness and intigation results, follow-up measures, such as disciplinary action and tegrity in dealings with our stakeholders, including customers, supplibusiness process improvement, are implemented. In order to protect ers, competitors, shareholders and societies. Everyone at LGE shares whistleblowers, we maintain a through protection mechanism and enthe CEO’s strong belief in Jeong-Do management, which is clearly exsure their identities are never disclosed. If a whistleblower has clearly pressed in his statement: “Only when we practice Jeong-Do managesuffered repercussions, we guarantee restoration to their previous ment ourselves, will we be able to achieve our goal of becoming No.1 state, or provide compensation equal to the loss he or she has sufLG. To become No.1 and stay as a sustainable company, first Jeongfered. Do management has to firmly take its roots in our organization.” Based on such shared commitment, we place Jeong-Do management Global Training on Jeong-Do Management as the top priority in our business practices. LGE provides training on Jeong-Do management not only to domestic employees, but also to overseas employees. At present, there are a Organization for Implementing Jeong-Do Management total of 148 instructors for Jeong-Do Management training, 120 overChaired by CEO and comprised of executive management meeting seas and 28 in Korea. Together, they have conducted Jeong-Do Manparticipants, the Ethics Committee functions as an executive decision agement training for over 18,000 employees, at home and abroad. making body of Jeong-Do management. Decisions made in the Ethics The training is comprised of internal and external case studies and Committee are designed into specific policies and implemented by the “Guidelines for practice”, helping our employees prevent corruption Ethics Bureau, which also undertakes Jeong-Do management training and irregularities from occurring. and promotions. Starting from the 2008 training session for Chinese suppliers, we have also been making ongoing efforts to help our suppliers embrace Jeong-Do Management Voluntary Reporting System Jeong-Do management, offering annual seminars, engaging in proEmployees who have unwillingly acquired listed or unlisted stocks of motion campaigns and delivering the CEO’s messages. partner companies prohibited by the Code of Ethics must volunteer the fact to the Ethics Bureau as soon as they become cognizant of it, Jeong-Do Management Training Results and immediately relinquish their possession of these investments. Employee No. of Employees Supplier Training No. of Suppliers Employees who have received cash and valuables or entertainment Korea Overseas Total Korea Overseas Total from parties with specific interests must report this fact to the Ethics 2009 1,339 13,361 14,700 2009 46 350 396 Bureau or Jeong-Do management website and return the gifts. When 2010 2,716 16,157 18,873 2010 285 141 426 it is impossible to return a gift, employees must donate it to welfare 2011 8,499 9,947 18,446 2011 294 288 582 facilities and send an official letter signed by an LG executive to the party which provided the gift and their company’s CEO, requesting Distribution of Explanation of Guidelines for Practice in Five Languages that such gift giving not be repeated, along with documented proof of In order to increase our employees’ awareness of LG Electronics Emthe donation. Further more, LGE has a soliciration reporting system ployees’ Code of Ethics and encourage them to embrace Jeong-Do for handling cases in which gifts are offered in exchange for recruitmanagement, we published the Code of Ethics Handbook in English, ment or pocurement. Korean, Chinese, Spanish and Polish, and distributed to all our members. This handbook not only explains the concept and philosophy Whistleblower System behind LG Way and Jeong-Do management, but also provides a full Our Whistleblower system receives text of Code of Ethics, practical action guidelines, detailed information reports regarding any actions in about guidelines and Q&A containing information about how to act in violation of Employees’ Code of real life situations and handle ethical dilemmas. Ethics and Jeong-Do Management, such as unfair business dealings, Collection of Jeong-Do Management Pledge exploitation of superior position LGE periodically requires all its employees, affiliate companies and and solicitation of gifts, etc. For the Report System and Whistleblower suppliers to sign and submit a pledge for “Jeong-Do Management.” past three years, a total of 1,358 Protection Policy (http://ethics.lg.co.kr) New recruits are required to sign the pledge when they start working violations were reported to the sysfor the company, and all executives are required to sign it annually. tem, assisting LGE in its effort to prevent corruption and irregularities In order to renew our commitment to Jeong-Do management, LGE and increase transparency across the organization. urged all domestic employees to sign the pledge once again in 2011. total no. of reports submitted Unit: % Disciplinary Actions Unit: % 6% 14% 11% 8% 17% 41% 38% 31% 9% 6% 11% 9% 2009 2010 2011 446 448 464 2009 2010 2011 cases cases cases 80% 78% 83% 42% 31% 85% Others: HR, Supplier Grievances, etc. Improprieties Complaints Others Strong Disciplinary Action Light Disciplinary Action Warning 76·2011-2012 LG Electronics Sustainability Report Fair Trade Reinforcing Fair Trade Compliance Activities In accordance with the corporate initiative for the Fair Trade ComFurthermore, LGE conducts in-depth interviews for employees who pliance Program, LG Electronics implements various activities to are exposed to cartel risks and monitors and audits its organizations strengthen its fair trade compliance. The Program requires each to prevent the risks associated with cartels. Company and overseas subsidiary to implement HQ’s Fair Trade Compliance Policy, which includes training for Fair Trade Compliance Fair Trade & Win-win Growth Partnership Agreement Managers, improvement measures and inspections, to facilitate fair At the Fair Trade & Win-Win Growth Partnership Agreement Signing competition and transaction in its business areas. The Program is parCeremony held in April 2011, LGE declared its strong commitment toticularly designed to raise awareness and strengthen fair trade comwards win-win growth with its business partners. Based on the Agreepliance throughout our value chain. ment, LGE adopted three principles – equal opportunity, fair transaction procedures and win-win growth and is implementing relevant policies and measures accordingly. In particular, LGE holds monthly Management System for Fair Trade Compliance win-win Growth Committee Meetings (comprised of procurement executives) to review key support and management policies for supFair Trade pliers, substantiating the effect of the Agreement. Following the CerCompliance Committee emony, LG Electronics also held a pledge ceremony for LG Electronics Fair Trade win-win Growth Camp to facilitate support agreements between the Compliance Secretariat 1st and 2nd tier suppliers and contributing to the establishment of a Company∙Subsidiary · Provide Consultation and Support sound ecosystem for win-win growth. Fair Trade Compliance · Monitor Progress Being true to its commitment, in 2011, LG Electronics shortened payManager ment periods for suppliers from 15 days to 10 days and provided financial support of KRW 181.2 billion through the Win-Win Growth Fund. Additionally, we support our suppliers to strengthen their technological capabilities through a joint R&D program called Green PartCartel Prevention Activities nership Program and provide training through the Vocational Training Cartel has become an issue throughout the world, and LGE taking the Consortium for LGE's Suppliers. In 2011, a total of 3,376 employees of matter very seriously. At the center of the company’s cartel prevention our suppliers completed this training program. In order to manage wineffort is raising awareness of the issue among its management and win Growth programs more systematically, LGE expanded the departemployees. CEO and other top executives regularly send messages to ment dedicated to this commitment, assigning an executive to lead the all employees urging them not to participate in cartels. LG Electronics organization and our effort in this important area. also adopted Cartel Guidelines to provide practical guide to employees to avoid cartel conduct. In addition, the company requires all employFuture Direction ees to undergo annual online training and sign Pledge of Antitrust During an audit in 2009, LGE discovered a cartel involving some of Compliance. For employees in the sales and marketing positions who our employees for three electronic products in the Korean market. may be exposed to cartel risk at a greater rate, the company conducts a The company immediately self-reported the incident to the Korea Fair more intensive cartel prevention training. All such efforts are aimed at Trade Commission and thoroughly cooperated with the investigation; preventing risks associated with cartels arising from lack of awareness. the company was exempted from the resulting fine determined by the Cartel Prevention Activities authority in December 2011. LGE sincerely regrets this incident and is making every effort to prevent similar conduct from being repeated Awareness Enhancements · Online and Offline Training in the future. We have reinforced our compliance programs for cartel · Cartel Guidelines prevention, including the establishment of a department dedicated to · Executive Management Messages the task. Based on our analysis that cartel conduct arises due to the · Pledge of Antitrust Compliance lack of awareness on the part of our employees, we are focusing our efforts into raising awareness of the issue. Reflecting the manageCompliance Activities · Audit of High Risk Groups ment’s strong commitment towards cartel prevention, LGE imple· Reporting Process for Contacts with mented a policy to prevent employees from unnecessarily contacting Competitors competitors, further reinforcing our commitment towards cartel prevention and keeping our employees safe from exposure to such risk. Everyone at LGE is fully committed to creating a corporate culture that facilitates voluntary compliance with fair trade principles through expanding the role and responsibilities of the Fair Trade Compliance Managers and raising awareness of the issue across the organization. We are also strongly committed to continue and refine our efforts into win-win growth with our business partners. Win-Win Growth camp Anti-Cartel Pledge Signing Ceremony Pledge Ceremony Management Report |Management InformationReport Security and Privacy / 일과Protection·77 | 조직문화 삶의 균형·77 Information Security and Privacy Protection Enterprise Privacy Protection System Certification System and Expected Benefits In 2011, as part of its effort to minimize compliance risk, LG Electronics established the Enterprise Privacy Protection System that complies with the privacy laws and regulations of the respective countries Management System where LGE business sites are located. The privacy protection management system of LGE is organized into Policy & Organization Management System a framework comprised of four key areas and twelve management Performs privacy predictasks. All LGE business sites participated in establishing the manageClassification of Personal tion activities continually ment system for each task. LGE also expanded the privacy manageInformation and systematically ment system to overseas subsidiaries, and completed the global manProtection Measures agement system. Training & Exercises Protection Measures Activities Technical and manageEnterprise Privacy Protection System Framework Personal Security ment measures designed for safekeeping of customer data Handling of Security Breach · Confidentiality Agreement · Privacy Impact Assessment System Life-Cycle · Training & Promotion · Policy and Procedures Technical & Physical A legally defined manage· PC Data Check · Inspection and Diagnosis Protection Measures ment process for personal information, from generation to destruction Internal Audit Employees Policy & Suppliers & Prevention Life-Cycle Benefits System Life-Cycle · Minimize the Potential Breach of Customers’ Personal · Technological Protection Measures · Non-disclosure Agreement Information · Database Monitoring with Suppliers · Strengthen Social Responsibility for Customer Data · Access Privilege Management · Consent for Collection of Information · Provide a Guide for Customer Privacy Protection Activities · Document and Information Destruction Management · Increase Customer Trust on Safekeeping of Customer Data Information Security Training Ensuring Customer Privacy Protection Activities with Certifications As part of its effort to improve enterprise-wide information security As part of its effort to protect customer privacy, LGE implements manand privacy protection, LGE holds the annual Global Security Conferagement and technical measures on both the LGE (www.lge.co.kr) ence & Training for information security managers. In the 2011 event, and LG Mobile (www.lgmobile.com) websites and annually renews a total of 117 managers, including 58 from overseas subsidiaries, atthe “e-Privacy” mark from the Korea Association for ICT Promotion to tended the training and 149 managers from our supplier companies validate the security level of the sites. participated in the same training program offered to suppliers. In 2012, LGE plans to provide the e-learning program for employees in 15 languages. Privacy Protection Agreement with the EU The European Union prohibits transfer of any EU citizen’s personal information (including LGE employees and customers) to overseas under the Privacy Law, Directive 95 46 EC). LGE concluded • • privacy protection agreements with the governments of EU nations where LGE maintains subsidiaries (15 countries 2011 Global Security Training Information Security Training for Suppliers including Austria) and currently transfers information to Korea only after the Personal Information Management System (PIMS) Certification (Korea) safety and security of such transfers To more systematically protect the privacy of customers, LGE is in has been validated. the process of acquiring Personal Information Management System Privacy Protection Agreement (PIMS) certification, which is issued by the Korean government (Korea Communications Commission). 78·2011-2012 LG Electronics Sustainability Report Economic Data Summary of Consolidated Income Statements Unit: krw million Category 2009 2010 2011 Net Sales 55,491,157 55,753,804 54,256,585 Cost of Sales 41,340,613 43,453,096 42,057,595 Gross Profit 14,150,544 12,300,708 12,198,990 Selling and Marketing Expenses 6,740,274 7,534,431 7,201,413 Administrative Expenses 1,297,264 1,402,203 1,359,986 Research and Development Expenses 1,269,828 1,500,792 1,698,917 Service Costs 1,883,013 1,775,128 1,595,453 Other Operating Income 2,417,367 2,009,968 1,622,901 Other Operating Expenses 2,696,829 1,921,653 1,685,859 Operating Income 2,680,703 176,469 280,263 Financial Income 1,291,031 819,747 574,148 Financial Expenses 1,542,430 1,039,012 922,666 Income (loss) from Jointly Controlled Entities and Associates 435,378 477,322 (331,058) Profit (loss) before Income Tax 2,864,682 434,526 (399,313) Income Tax Expense 588,680 141 33,492 Profit (loss) for the Year from Continuing Operations 2,276,002 434,385 (432,805) Discontinued Operations Profit from Discontinued Operations 74,126 847,734 Net Income (loss) 2,350,128 1,282,119 (432,805) Summary of Consolidated Statements of Financial Position Unit: krw million Category 2009 2010 2011 Assets Current Assets 16,910,073 16,514,533 15,783,126 Cash and Cash Equivalents 2,423,787 1,944,162 2,345,465 Financial Deposits 223,000 85,000 150,000 Trade Receivables 7,637,131 7,001,962 6,752,559 Inventories 4,899,313 5,872,420 4,947,160 Other Current Assets 1,726,842 1,610,989 1,587,942 Non-current Assets 15,204,439 15,803,966 16,875,331 Property, Plant and Equipment 7,708,933 6,500,484 7,290,413 Intangible Assets 803,828 763,382 1,035,797 Investments in Jointly Controlled Entities and 4,404,163 6,008,145 5,603,199 Associates Other Non-current Assets 2,287,515 2,531,955 2,945,922 Total Assets 32,114,512 32,318,499 32,658,457 Liabilities Current Liabilities 16,168,667 15,317,233 14,214,522 Non-current Liabilities 3,520,599 4,141,629 5,295,687 Total Liabilities 19,689,266 19,458,862 19,510,209 Equity Equity Attributable to Owners of the Parent Company 11,804,178 12,644,140 12,893,959 Paid-in Capital 3,017,088 3,017,088 3,992,348 Capital Stock 809,169 809,169 904,169 Share Premium 2,207,919 2,207,919 3,088,179 Retained Earnings 9,214,309 10,108,173 9,499,534 Accumulated Other Comprehensive Loss (156,886) (209,844) (326,584) Other Components of Equity (270,333) (271,277) (271,339) Non-controlling Interest 621,068 215,497 254,289 Non-controlling Interest 621,068 215,497 254,289 Total Equity 12,425,246 12,859,637 13,148,248 Total Liabilities and Equity 32,114,512 32,318,499 32,658,457 Our Data Management Report | 조직문화 | Social / 일과 삶의Data·79 균형·79 Social Data Status of employees (Total: 91,045) As of December 31, 2011 4.1% 2.8% 2.6% 0.3% 14.8% 3.4% 39.2% 5.7% 38.8% 7.5% 38.8% By Age 8.2% By Region By Position Korea 13.2% China 60.5% South & Central America 42.3% 17.8% Europe Under 20’s South East Asia Office Staff 30’s India Production Staff 40’s CIS Executive Above 50’s Middle East & Africa North America Benefits and Support Programs Benefits LG Electronics has systematic benefits and support programs in place to provide employees with personal time for refreshment, child birth and maternity leave. Our diverse benefits and support programs not Other Benefits Legally Required Total only help our employees strike a balance between work and personal KRW 112.3 billion KRW Benefits life, but also promote creativity at workplace. (40.5%) 277 billion KRW 164.7 billion (59.5%) 1) Legally Required Benefits: National Pension, Health Insurance, Employment Insurance, Industrial Accident Compensation Insurance 2) Other Benefits: Support programs other than legally required benefits Current Status of Benefits and Support Programs (for Korean employees) Leisure Activities ·Congratulatory/Condolence Cash Gift: Support for congratulatory events ·Vacation for Refreshment: Employees plan their yearly vacation at the beginand funerals of employees and their families ning of the year and are encouraged to freely take their leaves ·Disaster Relief Support: Financial support offered to employees and their ·Resort Facilities: Employees have access to 10 resort facilities families who have suffered property damage caused by natural disasters (including condominiums and pensions) across Korea ·Informal Groups: Hobby and volunteer groups Medical/Health ·Medical expenses for employees and family members Childbirth and Maternity Leave ·Group insurance related to disasters: operation of Health Care Center and ·Lounge and nursing room for female employees: For female employees / Counseling Center pregnant and nursing employees ·Paid sick leave: For sick leave due to occupational accidents, 70% of average ·Childcare Facilities: Available in Seoul, Pyeongtaek and Changwon; wages for personal illness, 30-100% of ordinary wages plans in place for expanding to all business sites ·Maternity Leave Education Paid maternity leave for female employees before and after a childbirth ·Scholarship for employees’ children/Support for employees starting/resuming (upto 90 days) their education Time off offered in the event of miscarriage/stillbirth (30-90 days), time off ·Special lectures on healthcare, personal finance and investment, and family life for fertility issues (2 days) Time off given when a spouse gives birth (3 days) Legally Required Benefits Time off given to raise children under six years of age (for up to 12 months) ·National Pension, Health Insurance, Employment Insurance, Industrial Accident Compensation Insurance Housing and Stable Living ·Pension Scheme: Fixed amount guaranteed Optional Benefits ·Housing Loans: Housing loans offered to employees with at least two years ·KRW 1,000,000 worth of points awarded to employees annually of service ·Points can be redeemed for personal development, leisure/health, gift & ·Moving Costs: Assistance with moving costs when an employee is product purchasing transferred 80·2011-2012 LG Electronics Sustainability Report Environmental Data LG Electronics maintains environmental management standards that are 50% stricter than legally required, making contributions to reducing environmental risks and improving the local environment through strict management. To increase the reliability of the environmental data, LGE ensures that relevant staff members from all production sites undergo necessary trainings, while continuously improving the overall data management system. Through such process, LGE identified some errors in the previous year’s data due to different data management systems among our business sites. LGE will provide reliable environmental data with improved management systems. INPUT DATA Greenhouse Gas Emission Unit: K Ton CO2e Water Use Unit: K Ton Category 2009 2010 2011 Category 2009 2010 2011 Scope 1 136 118 145 4,291 5,914 Korea 6,373 Korea (4,338) (5,670) Scope 2 444 516 534 5,919 6,214 Overseas 6,540 Scope 1 278 303 297 (5,937) (6,221) Overseas 10,210 12,128 Total 12,913 Scope 2 407 363 385 (10,275) (11,891) Total 1,265 1,300 1,361 Base Unit 1.84 2.18 2.38 (K Ton/KRW 10 billion) Base Unit 2.28 2.33 2.51 (K Ton CO 2 e/KRW 100 billion ) · The numbers in parenthesis ( ) indicate the mistaken data disclosed in the 2010 report. · Applicable business sites: 14 in Korea (production, office and R&D centers); The values have been adjusted to fix the errors occurred during the verification process. 30 in overseas (production) · The water usage has significatly increased in Korea in 2010 because of the changed · Verification status Korea: A third party verification completed (2008 2011), manufacturing process in the Gumi PDP site and mass production of the solar cell except for the 2011 refrigerant emissions initiated in 2010. Overseas: A third party verification completed (2008 2010), except for LGEAT and LGEQA · The data correction can be made after the completion of the third party verification. Material (in Korea) Unit: Ton Unit: Ton CO2e Products Required for Recycling Volume Released Category 2009 2010 2011 Refrigerator (General) 98,426 Leased Property 6,816 7,673 7,987 26,211 Refrigerator (for Kimchi) Scope 3 Commuter Vehicles 4,309 4,978 6,072 Washing Machine (Top-load) 25,202 Domestic Logistics (Transport) 66,987 86,210 95,282 Washing Machine (Front-load) 26,662 Business travel 79,080 84,425 62,153 · Verification status: A third party verification completed (2009 2011) ton Air-conditioner (Indoor unit) 35,186 Energy Air-conditioner (Outdoor unit) 56,988 Unit: TJ Category 2009 2010 2011 Television (CRT) 17 Electricity 5,228 5,911 6,056 Television (LCD, PDP) 18,030 Steam 406 582 807 5,549 Personal Computer (Monitor) LNG 1,207 1,178 997 Personal Computer (Keyboard) 137 Coal 1,109 1,152 1,223 Personal Computer (Desktop) 2,688 Others 341 302 353 Personal Computer (Lap-top) 1,087 Total 8,291 9,125 9,436 · Applicable business sites: 14 in Korea (production, office and R&D centers); Audio (All-in-one type) 125 30 in overseas (production) · Applicable energy usage: Combustion facilities in business sites and external electricity and heat usage (excluding energy consumed by vehicles) Audio (Separated type body) · The energy consumption is calculated based on net heating value 395 · Verification status Korea: A third party verification completed (2008 2011) Audio (Speaker) Overseas: A third party verification completed (2008 2010), except for LGEAT and LGEQA 611 Mobile handset (Body) · The data correction can be made in after the completion of the third party verification. Mobile handset (Battery) 171 Ozone depleting chemicals Unit: Ton Mobile handset (Charger) 88 Category 2009 2010 2011 Printer (Laser) 53 Korea 1,631 1,509 1,070 HCFC Printer (Non-Laser) 333 (R22) Overseas 3,036 3,023 2,881 Total 4,667 4,532 3,951 Total 297,959 Our Data Management Report | Environmental | 조직문화 / 일과 삶의Data·81 균형·81 OUTPUT DATA Air Emissions Unit: Ton Discharges into Water Unit: Ton Category Region 2009 2010 2011 Category Region 2009 2010 2011 Korea 1.5 1.8 3.3 Korea 1.5 1.3 0.9 NOx Overseas 71.9 (92.6) 84.6 (114.1) 79.0 T-P Overseas 0.6 0.5 1.3 Total 73.4 (94.1) 86.4 (115.9) 82.3 Total 2.1 1.8 2.2 Korea 0.1 0.4 0.6 Korea 51.3 58.0 36.6 SOx Overseas 42.5 (55.6) 62.9 (89.1) 47.6 T-N Overseas 6.5 5.3 2.5 Total 42.6 (55.7) 63.3 (89.5) 48.2 Total 57.8 63.3 39.1 Korea 4.0 5.0 7.5 Korea 18.3 38.8 12.9 Dust Overseas 61.6 (66.5) 72.3 (80.7) 58.1 SS Overseas 32.7 30.5 49.7 Total 65.6 (70.5) 77.3 (85.7) 65.6 Total 51.0 69.3 62.6 Korea (ppm) 14.0 16.4 11.1 Korea (ppm) 54.4 106.8 77.8 VOCs Overseas (ton) 21.6 21.8 30.3 COD Overseas (ton) 48.0 99.2 108.5 · In case of VOCs, there was no standard for VOC measurement in Korea so this Total 102.4 206.0 186.3 report presents the average concentration of Total Hydrocarbon (THC) in ppm from the painting facilities. · The numbers in parenthesis ( ) indicate an error in the disclosed data from the Wastewater discharge Unit: Ton 2010 report. The values have been adjusted to correct the errors identified during the verification process. Region 2009 2010 2011 · Sox emissions, in particular, are greatly reduced in 2011 thanks to the newly installed anti air pollution equipment. Korea 3,017,428 3,922,150 4,140,130 Overseas 1,464,472 1,493,185 1,451,776 Total 4,481,900 5,415,335 5,591,906 Waste Generation Unit: Ton · In 2011, wastewater discharge increased sharply in Korea due to the additional Category Region 2009 2010 2011 production lines at Gumi Solar Panel Plant. Korea 27,911 37,529 38,739 Recycle Overseas 68,601 80,472 81,124 Total 96,512 118,001 119,863 Safety data Korea 1,614 4,368 5,437 Category Region 2009 2010 2011 Landfill Overseas 26,766 40,434 40,726 Korea 0 0 0 Total 28,380 44,802 46,163 Fatality (case) Overseas 1 0 0 Korea 5,114 6,452 6,848 Total 1 0 0 Incineration Overseas 898 1,166 2,300 Korea 14 12 8 Total 6,012 7,618 9,148 Incident Overseas 316 333 406 (case) General 32,200 45,883 48,490 Total 330 345 414 Korea Hazardous 2,439 2,466 2,533 Total Korea 36,914,334 47,708,018 53,862,314 Total Total 34,639 48,349 51,023 Hours Overseas 102,571,389 122,422,941 132,892,824 Worked Overseas 96,265 122,072 118,269 (hours) Total 139,485,723 170,130,959 186,755,138 Total 130,904 170,421 169,292 · The Safety data is only applicable to production sites. · Incineration also includes heat recovery · For hazardous wastes, this reports only presents the data from Korea, as definition of hazardous wastes differs from countries. 82·2011-2012 LG Electronics Sustainability Report Global Production Network As of December 31, 2011 Region country City Subsidiary product ISO Certification Mexico Mexicali LGEMX LCD TV, Monitor North, Mexico Reynosa LGERS LCD tv, PDP TV, CRT TV, PDP Module ISO 14001 South & central Brazil Manaus LGEAZ TV, DVD, Audio, Car Audio, Microwave Oven, AirConditoner ISO 14001 America Mexico Monterey LGEMM Refrigerator, Oven ISO 14001, OHSAS 18001 Brazil Taubate LGESP Monitor, Mobile Phone, Laptop, Washing Machine ISO 14001 Poland Mlawa LGEMA TV, Monitor ISO 14001 Europe Poland Wroclaw LGEWR Refrigerator, TV ISO 14001, OHSAS 18001 Egypt Ismailia LGEEG CRT TV, FPD ISO 14001 middle east Turkey Istanbul LGEAT Air Conditioner ISO 14001, OHSAS 18001 & africa Saudi Arabia Riaydh LGESR Air Conditioner South Africa johannesburg LGESA LCD TV, PDP TV, Monitor Noida CRT TV, LCD TV, PDP TV, Monitor, Refrigerator, Air Conditioner, ISO 14001, OHSAS 18001 India LGEIL Pune Washing Machine, Compressor, Optical Storage, Mobile Phone ISO 14001, OHSAS 18001 Thailand Rayong LGETH Washing Machine, Air Conditioner, Compressor ISO 14001, OHSAS 18001 Hung Yen TV, Monitor, Mobile Phone, Air Conditioner, Washing Machine ISO 14001 Asia Vietnam LGEVN Hai Phong Refrigerator , Microwave Oven, Vacuum Cleaner ISO 14001 Bekasi LCD Monitor, LCD TV, PDP TV, CRT TV, VCR, DVD-P, VCR, COMBI, ISO 14001, OHSAS 18001 Indonesia LGEIN REC COMBI, DVD-P, DVD-R, BD-P, BD-Home Theater, Tanggerang DVD-Home Theater, Audio, Refrigerator ISO 14001, OHSAS 18001 China Taizhou LGETR Refrigerator, Compressor ISO 14001, OHSAS 18001 China Huizhou LGEHZ Media, Optical Storage ISO 14001, OHSAS 18001 China Nanjing LGEND Monitor, LCD TV, PDP TV ISO 14001, OHSAS 18001 China Nanjing LGEPN Washing Machine, Motor ISO 14001, OHSAS 18001 China Qinhuangdao LGEQH Casting ISO 14001, OHSAS 18001 China Shanghai LGESH Security Camera ISO 14001, OHSAS 18001 China China Shenyang LGESY CRT TV ISO 14001, OHSAS 18001 China Tianjin Microwave Oven, Air Conditioner, Vacuum Cleaner, LGETA Compressor, MGT ISO 14001, OHSAS 18001 China Yantai LGEYT Mobile Phone ISO 14001, OHSAS 18001 China Kunshan LGEKS Telematics, Audio ISO 14001, OHSAS 18001 China Hangzhou LGEHN Video Cassette Tape, USB, HDD, Prism Sheet ISO 14001, OHSAS 18001 China Qingdao LGEQD Mobile Phone ISO 14001, OHSAS 18001 China Qingdao LGEQA Chiller ISO 14001 Kazakhstan Almaty LGEAK TV, Washing Machine ISO 14001, OHSAS 18001 CIS Russia Ruja LGERA TV, Monitor, Refrigerator, Washing Machine ISO 14001, OHSAS 18001 * no. of Overseas Production Sites: 33 (No. of Production Subsidiary: 30) * All production sites located in Korea have ISO 14001 and OHSAS 18001 certifications. Appendix | Independent Management Report | 조직문화 / 일과Statement·83 Assurance 삶의 균형·83 Independent Assurance Statement To the Stakeholders of LG Electronics: 5. For content and presentation of data related to the environmental LG Electronics commissioned Korea Productivity Center (the “Assurissues, verified compliance with the principles and guidelines laid er”) to provide independent assurance of its 2011-2012 Sustainability out by the ISO14021 Standards and the FTC Green Guides Report (the “Report”). 6. Verified the basis of data and information presented as well as the internal process and systems by performing site inspections at Seoul HQ and Woomyeon R&D Campus Responsibility and Integrity 7. Verified the validity of LGE sustainability management strategy and LG Electronics is entirely responsible for the reliability and accuracy of management messages by interviewing 10 members of the execuall information and opinions presented in this “Report”. The Assurer is tive management team responsible only for the assurance statement provided in the Report. As an independent assurance agency, the Assurer was not by any means involved with preparing this “Report” and maintains no relaFindings and Conclusions tionship with LG Electronics that can undermine its integrity. It is the Assurer’s opinion that the Report fairly and accurately presents the sustainability efforts and performance of LGE. Also, the assurance verified that this Report satisfies the requirements for the GRI Assurance Standard and Objectives Application level A as claimed by LGE. The following is the Assurer’s The assurance was undertaken in accordance with the AA1000 Assurfindings and recommendations based on the AA1000 Accountability ance Standard (2008) to provide a Type 1 moderate level of assurance. Principles (2008) of Inclusivity, Materiality and Responsiveness. This is achieved through the evaluation of the organization’s adherence to the AA1000 Accountability Principles Standard (2008) of In1. Principle of Inclusivity clusivity, Materiality and Responsiveness. Additionally, the assurance The principle of inclusivity articulates that organizations should inwas performed to ascertain the organization’s adherence to the GRI clude stakeholders in developing and achieving an accountable and 3.1 Guidelines in preparing and presenting sustainability performance strategic response to sustainability. Based on the findings of this asinformation. surance effort, it is evident that in 2011, LGE made a variety of efforts to adhere to the principle of inclusivity and improve its performance Assurance Limitations in this area. The company clearly understands the expectations of Based on the aforementioned assurance standards, the Assurer perand communication channels for each of the seven major stakeholder formed verification of the organization’s sustainability performance groups: customers, employees, suppliers, communities, central and during the reporting period, with the following exceptions: local governments, shareholders and investors and international organizations and NGOs. In particular, LGE is fully aware of the impor• The scope of work did not involve verification of data related to tance of communication and strives for open communication with its financial and environmental performance, including GHG perforstakeholders, which the Assurer believes will help strengthen inclusivmance. ity. However, to ensure that the company continues to improve in this • The scope of work did not involve verification of activities outside area, the Assurer recommends presenting the selection process of the reporting period and assurance scope as well as the official key stakeholders, identification process of their expectations, specific statements and website of LGE. activities associated with each communication channel and related performance. In particular, the Assurer recommends that LGE present Additionally, as LGE production sites in Korea and overseas were not the issues which emerged at the 2010 Stakeholder Consultation and within the scope of site inspection, different results can be produced the company’s response to those issues and respective performance with additional verifications. in its sustainability report to take it as an opportunity to review and strengthen the inclusivity of the organization’s sustainability reporting. Assurance Methodology Lastly, the Assurer believes that as the company expands open communication with key stakeholders of its overseas production sites, it The assurance was undertaken using the methodology specified bewill become easier to fully understand and quantify the impact of LGE low. overseas social contributions to local communities. 1. Verified objectivity and appropriateness of key issues selected and 2. Principle of Materiality content presented in the Report by reviewing media reports and The principle of inclusivity articulates that organizations should focus performing comparative analysis with sustainability reports issued on issues relevant and material to both the organization and its key by industry peers stakeholders. The Assurer found that LGE successfully identified is2. Verified if the Report satisfies requirements for GRI Application level sues relevant and material to the company and its key stakeholders A by reviewing the coverage rate of and presentation method for through the “Materiality Analysis”. In particular, the fact that the comeach indicator specified in the GRI 3.1 Guidelines pany collected stakeholder opinions (external experts and employee 3. Verified consistency with the principles dictating the content and survey and external inquires) throughout the year (rather than limiting quality of sustainability reports based on the GRI 3.1 Guidelines collection simply to the report preparation period) to perform Materiality 4. Verified errors in conformity and expressions found in information Analysis proves it is making efforts to systematically manage material presented in the Report by comparing with and analyzing the same issues. Additionally, the company identified material issues by cominformation from different sources prehensively managing and analyzing stakeholder opinions collected through disparate channels and included activities, performance and 84·2011-2012 LG Electronics Sustainability Report future directions associated with those issues in the Report. AdditionRecommendations ally the company presented quantitative measures of its performance The Assurer commends LGE for making a variety of efforts to improve on key issues, which were not included in the 2010 report, and covered sustainability and producing results, and presents the following recthe issue of conflict minerals as well as its activities and performance ommendations to improve on future sustainability reports and susrelated to the issue. Such efforts indicate that LGE well maintains the tainability management. currency of material issues and makes continual efforts for improvements. To ensure that LGE continues in this area, the assurer recom1. The Assurer recommends that LGE adopt a sustainability monitormends that the company increase the linkage between materiality ing and data management system at its overseas business sites management and its enterprise risk management system as well as to expand the scope of sustainability management. Through such the strategy development process. a system, LG will be able to manage enterprise sustainability data and increase the quality of its sustainability report as well as sus3. Principle of Responsiveness tainability management. The principle of inclusivity articulates that organizations should be 2. With increasing interest in the environment and LGE's venture into responsive to issues that can have impacts on stakeholders’ perfornew businesses in the sector, the Assurer recommends that LGE mance. The Assurer found that LGE successfully identified issues establish a management system for water use and biodiversity isthat can impact stakeholders’ performance, engaged in activities to sues, in addition to GHG emissions. address them and adequately presented relevant information in the 3. The Assurer recommends that LGE improve the connection between Report. In particular, the company improved on the Key Progress and mid to long term objectives and financial performance by establishPerformance Table introduced in 2010 and clearly presented opporing a management system that facilitates integrated management tunities, performance, mid to long term objectives and action plans of performance data of each sustainability issue. associated with key issues. Such effort will enable LGE to systematically manage and disclose importance issues with impacts on stakeholders’ performance and can be utilized to improve stakeholders’ performance. Considering the share of overseas businesses in the company’s overall performance and continually increasing exports, the assurer recommends that LGE establish a system that enables it to systematically and comprehensively identify and respond to the issues that can impact overseas stakeholders’ performance. May 2012 Hong Jin, Chairman Korea Productivity Center Dong soo Kim, Jeong seok Seo, Ju mi Park, Director of Sustainability Team Leader of Sustainability Senior fellow of Sustainability Management Center Management Center Management Center Korea Productivity Center’s Sustainability Management Center is an assurance agency officially certified by AccountAbility, which established AA1000, international standards for stakeholder participation and verification and has qualifications to perform an independent assurance engagement. Our Assurance Committee is also comprised of competent experts who have ample experience in sustainability management consulting and assurance and completed relevant professional training. Appendix | Memberships/Awards Management Report | 조직문화 /&일과 Recognition·85 삶의 균형·85 Memberships/Awards & Recognition Memberships ·Council of Economic Organizations ·Fair Competition Federation ·Korea Association of Electronics Environment ·Organization of Consumer Affairs Professionals in ·The Korean Federation of Science and Technology ·Korean Information Display Society (KIDS) Business Societies ·Telecommunication Technology Association (TTA) ·Industrial Health Association ·Korea Advertiser Association ·Korea Intellectual Property Protection Association ·Korean Society of Mechanical Engineers (KSME) ·Korea Management Association (KIPRA) ·Korea Industrial Safety Association ·Licensing Executive Society Korea (LES Korea) ·Korea Intellectual Property Association (KINPA) ·Korea Chamber of Commerce and Industry ·Korea Micro Joining Association (KMJA) ·Society of CAD/CAM Engineers ·The Korean Institute of Electrical Engineers ·The Korea International Trade Association ·Korea Home Network Industry Association ·Maekyung Safety and Environment ·Korea Invention Promotion Association ·International Trademark Association (INTA) ·The Foundation of Korean Industries ·Korea Association of Information & Telecommunication ·European Committee of Domestic Equipment Manufacturers (CECED) ·Trade Related IPR Protection Association (TIPA) ·Korean Industrial Technology Association ·Digital Europe ·Korea Radio Promotion Association ·Korea Association of Industrial Designers (KAID) ·International Council Society of Industrial Design (ICSID) ·Federation of Korean Information Industries ·Korea Listed Companies Association (KLCA) ·Quality Brand Protection Committee (QBPC) ·Korea Association for ICT Promotion ·Korea Forum for Progress ·ZigBee Alliance ·Korea Business Council for Sustainable Development ·Korean Society for Noise and Vibration Engineering (KBCSD) (KSNVE) ·Japan Article Management Promotion Consortium (JAMP) ·Korea Audit Bureau of Circulations ·Korea Smart Grid Association ·Electronic Industry Citizenship Coalition (EICC) ·Korea Investor Relations Service ·GS1 Korea ·United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) ·Korea Employers Federation ·Korea Production Safety Association ·United Nations Global Compact Korea Network ·Korea Economic Research Institute ·Korea Electronics Association (UNGC Korea Network) Awards & Recognition Date Award Awarder Selected as the Most Water Efficient Product December 2011 Waterwise, U.K. Drum Washing Machine (Model Name: F1495BDS) and Dishwasher (Model Name: D1454BF) December 2011 Received Knowledge Economy Minister’s Award at the 2011 Korea Technology Awards LG CINEMA 3D TV Korea Institute for Advancement of Technology Green Technology of the Year at the 3rd National Green Technology Awards November 2011 Ministry of Education, Science and Technology (High Efficiency Crystalline Silicon Solar Cell Technology) November 2011 Received the Labor Friendly Management Prize at the UNGC Value Awards UN Global Compact Network Korea November 2011 LGE Peru Subsidiary Named as “50 Best Multinationals to Work for in Latin America” Great Place to Work Institute November 2011 Received the President’s Award at the Korea Safety Award LG Digital Park (Pyeongtaek) National Emergency Management Agency Ministry of Knowledge Economy, October 2011 Received the President’s Award for Standardization on the World Standard Day Korea Agency for Technology and Standards October 2011 Named by Consumers as the Best Brand India Subsidiary CNBC India October 2011 Joined in the Carbon Management Global Leaders Club for 3 Years Straight CDP (Carbon Disclosure Project) Korea October 2011 Named as East Asia 30 (East Asian Corporations Recognized for CSR Excellence) The Hankyoreh POPAI October 2011 Received the 2011 POPAI Chief Award for Merchandizing Excellence (Point Of Purchase Advertising International) September 2011 Included in the Dow Jones Sustainability Asia-Pacific Index Dow Jones Indexes, SAM September 2011 Received the Highest Score for an Electronics Company in Korean Sustainability Index (KSI) Korea Standards Association July 2011 13 Products Named as “ENERGY START Most Efficient 2011” in the U.S. U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) Received the President’s Award at the 2011 Global Green Management Excellence Awards Ministry of Knowledge Economy, July 2011 TROMM Washing Machine Ministry of Environment Selected as the No.1 Pick for 3D TV by Consumer Reports, the U.S. LG CINEMA 3D TV July 2011 Consumer Reports, U.S. (Model Name: 47LW5600) April 2011 Spain Subsidiary Named as “2011 Great Place to Work Top 50” Great Place to Work Institute April 2011 Named as the Best Monitor Flatron IPS LED LCD Monitor (Model Name: IPS236/IPS231) Technical Image Press Association (TIPA) The Korean Society for Quality Management, January 2011 Selected as Companies with Excellence in Life Safety Achievements in 2011 The Dong-A Ilbo Consumer Electronics Association (CEA), January 2011 12 Products Received the 2011 CES Innovations Awards Industrial Designers Society of America (IDSA) 86·2011-2012 LG Electronics Sustainability Report GRI Index GRI Index Related Contents Page 1.1 Statement from senior decision maker about the relevance of sustainability to the organization CEO Message 6-7 Key Progress and Performance, CEO Message, 4 5, 6 7, 8, 1.2 Description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities Top Management Messages, Stakeholder Engagement, 20 22, 74 Stakeholder Consultation on CSR, Compliance Risk Management 2.1 Name of the organization Corporate Overview 10 11 2.2 Primary brands, products, and services Corporate Overview 10 11 2.3 Operational structure of the organization Corporate Overview 10 11 2.4 Location of organization’s headquarters Corporate Overview 10 11 2.5 Number and names of countries where the organization operates Global Network 13 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form Corporate Governance 73 2.7 Markets served Corporate Overview and Economic Performance 10 13 2.8 Scale of the reporting organization Corporate Overview and Economic Performance 10 13 2.9 Significant changes during the reporting period Corporate Overview and Economic Performance 10 13 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period Memberships/Awards & Recognition 85 3.1 Reporting period for information provided Report overview 2 3.2 Date of most recent previous report May, 2011 89 3.3 Reporting cycle Report overview (Annual) 2 3.4 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents Report overview 2 Report Overview, Stakeholder Engagement, Stakeholder 3.5 Process for defining report content 2, 20 25 Consultation on CSR, Materiality Analysis 3.6 Boundary of the report Report overview 2 3.7 State any specific limitations on the scope or boundary of the report Report overview 2 3.8 Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, leased facilities, outsourced operations, and other entities Report overview, Corporate Overview 2, 10 11 3.9 Data measurement techniques and the bases of calculations Report overview, Our Data 2, 78 82 3.10 Explanation of any re-statements of information provided in earlier reports Some data in the previous report have been adjusted. 80 82 3.11 Significant changes from previous reporting periods No significant changes − 3.12 Table identifying the location of the Standard Disclosures in the report GRI Index 86 88 3.13 Policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance Report overview, Independent Assurance Statement 2, 83 84 4.1 Governance structure of the organization Corporate Governance 73 4.2 Whether the Chair of the highest governance body is also an executive officer Corporate Governance 73 4.3 State the number of members of the highest governance body Corporate Governance 73 4.4 Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to provide recommendations or direction to the highest Corporate Governance 73 governance body 4.5 Linkage between compensation for members of the upper management and the organization's performance Corporate Governance 73 4.6 Processes in place for the highest governance body to ensure conflicts of interest are avoided Corporate Governance 73 4.7 Process for determining the qualifications and expertise of the members of the highest governance body Corporate Governance 73 4.8 Internally developed statements of mission and principles Our Philosophy, CSR Management 9, 14 15 Procedures of the highest governance body for overseeing the management of economic, environmental, 4.9 CSR Management, Corporate Governance 14 15, 73 and social performance 4.10 Processes for evaluating the highest governance body’s own performance Corporate Governance 73 Product Quality & Safety, Greener Products, 30 31, 35 41, 42 46, 4.11 Explanation of whether and how precautionary approach or principle is addressed Low-Carbon Green Management, EESH Management, CSR in Supply Chain, Compliance Risk Management 47 49, 52 54, 74 4.12 Externally developed charters to which the organization subscribes Memberships/Awards & Recognition 85 4.13 Memberships in associations Memberships/Awards & Recognition 85 4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization Stakeholder Engagement 20 4.15 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage Stakeholder Engagement 20 Stakeholder Engagement, Stakeholder Consultation on CSR, 4.16 Approaches to stakeholder engagement, including frequency of engagement 20 25 Materiality Analysis Stakeholder Engagement, Stakeholder Consultation on CSR, 4.17 Key concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement 20 25 Materiality Analysis GRI Index Application Related Contents Page level Economic EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed ○ Corporate Overview and Economic Performance 10 13 Exploring Opportunities and Managing Risks Associated EC2 Financial implications for the organization’s activities due to climate change ○ 42 43 with Climate Change EC3 Coverage of the organization’s defined benefit plan obligations △ Benefits and Support Programs 79 Corporate tax expense was sharply reduced due to EC4 Significant financial assistance received from government ○ 12 deterioration in profitability. EC5 Range of ratios of standard entry level wage compared to local minimum wage ○ Fair Evaluation and Rewards 68 EC6 Policy, practices, and proportion of spending on locally-based suppliers ○ Win-Win Growth 51 Talent Management, EC7 Procedures for local hiring and proportion of local senior management ○ 65 67, 10 13 Corporate Overview and Economic Performance EC8 Development and impact of infrastructure investments and services provided ○ Flow of Economic Value, Community 12, 57 61 EC9 Understanding and describing significant indirect economic impacts ○ Flow of Economic Value 12 Environmental EN1 Materials used by weight or volume △ Input Data (Material) 80 EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials △ Utilization of Recycled Materials 40 EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary energy source ○ Input Data (Energy) 80 Management Report | 조직문화 Appendix / 일과| GRI 삶의Index·87 균형·87 Application GRI Index level Related Contents Page Environmental EN4 Indirect energy consumption by primary source ○ Input Data (Energy) 80 EN5 Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency improvements △ Production Level GHG Reduction 43 44 EN6 Reductions in energy requirement as a result of energy efficient or renewable energy initiatives △ Greener Products, Product Usage Level GHG Reduction 35 37, 44 EN7 Initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption and reductions achieved △ Expanding GHG Management Across Businesses 44 45 EN8 Total water withdrawal by source △ Water Use Management, Water Use 45, 80 EN9 Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of water × − − EN10 Percentage and total volume of water recycled and reused × − − EN11 Location and size of areas of high biodiversity value EN12 Description of significant impacts of activities on biodiversity EN13 Habitats protected or restored N/A LGE’s facilities are located in industrial complexes. − EN14 Strategies, current actions, and future plans for managing impacts on biodiversity EN15 Number of IUCN Red List species and national conservation list species EN16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight ○ Input Data (GHG) 80 EN17 Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight ○ Input Data (GHG) 80 EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and reductions achieved ○ Low-Carbon Green Management 42 46 EN19 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances by weight △ Input Data (Ozone depleting chemicals) 80 EN20 NOx, SOx, and other significant air emissions by type and weight ○ Output Data (Air Emissions) 81 EN21 Total water discharge by quality and destination △ Output Data (Wastewater) 81 EN22 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method ○ Output Data (Waste) 48, 81 EN23 Total number and volume of significant spills × None of significant spills occurred in 2011. − Weight of exported, imported, transported, or treated hazardous waste under the EN24 × − − terms of Basel Convention EN25 Identity, size, and protected status of water bodies and related habitats × − − EN26 Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of products and services ○ Greener Products, Low-Carbon Green Management 35 46 EN27 Percentage of products sold and their packaging materials ○ Resource Reduction 40 41 EN28 Monetary value of significant fines for noncompliance with environmental regulations × No violations in 2011 − Expanding GHG Management Across Businesses, EN29 Significant environmental impacts of transporting products and other goods ○ 44 45, 80 Output Data (GHG) EN30 Total environmental protection expenditures and investments × − − Labor Practices and Decent Work Employees by Country, Percentage of Temporary LA1 Total workforce by employment type, employment contract, and region ○ 13, 67, 79 Employees, Status of LGE’s employees LA2 Total number and rate of employee turnover by age group, gender, and region ○ Turnover Rate 67 LA3 Benefits provided to full-time employees ○ Benefits and Support Programs 79 LA4 Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements ○ Labor Relations 69 LA5 Minimum notice period(s) regarding operational changes △ Labor Relations (one month) 69 Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint management-worker health LA6 ○ Labor Relations (Applied to all employees) 69 and safety committees LA7 Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, absenteeism, and fatalities ○ Incident Rate, Safety Data 49, 81 Programs to assist workforce members, their families, or community members LA8 ○ EESH Management 49 regarding serious diseases LA9 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade unions × − − LA10 Average hours of training per year per employee ○ Talent Management (62 hours) 66 LA11 Programs for skills management and lifelong learning ○ Talent Management 65 67 LA12 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews ○ Fair Evaluation and Rewards 68 Talent Management, Corporate Governance, LA13 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per category ○ 65 67, 73, 79 Status of LGE’s employees LA14 Ratio of basic salary of men to women by employee category △ Fair Evaluation and Rewards (No differences) 68 LA15 Return to work and retention rates after parental leave, by gender ○ Use of Childbirth and Maternity Leave (Korea) 67 Human Rights Percentage and total number of significant investment agreements that include HR1 △ CSR in Supply Chain 52 54 human rights clauses Percentage of significant suppliers that have undergone screening on HR2 ○ CSR in Supply Chain 52 54 human rights and actions taken HR3 Total hours of employee training on policies/procedures concerning aspects of human rights △ Jeong-Do Management (18,446 employees were trained.) 75 HR4 Total number of incidents of discrimination and actions taken ○ Labor Rights Protection, CSR in Supply Chain 69 71, 52 54 Operations identified in which the right to exercise freedom of HR5 ○ Labor Rights Protection, CSR in Supply Chain 69 71, 52 54 association and collective bargaining HR6 Operations identified as having risk for incidents of child labor and measures taken ○ Labor Rights Protection, CSR in Supply Chain 69 71, 52 54 HR7 Operations identified as having risk for incidents of forced or compulsory labor and measures taken ○ Labor Rights Protection, CSR in Supply Chain 69 71, 52 54 HR8 Percentage of security personnel trained in the organization’s policies or procedures × − − HR9 Percentage of security personnel trained in the organization’s policies or procedures × − − Percentage and total number of operations that have been subject to human rights HR10 ○ CSR Risk Management Program 70 reviews and/or impact assessments Number of grievances related to human rights filed, addressed and resolved through HR11 ○ Grievance Resolution Process, Jeong-Do Management 69,75 formal grievance mechanisms Society SO1 Effectiveness of any programs/practices that asses and manage the impacts of operations ○ Social Contribution 57 61 SO2 Total number of business units analyzed for risks related to corruption ○ Compliance Risk Management 74 SO3 Percentage of employees trained in organization’s anti-corruption policies ○ Jeong-Do Management (18,446 employees were trained.) 75 SO4 Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption ○ Jeong-Do Management 75 e-waste Management and Recycling, SO5 Public policy positions and participation in public policy development and lobbying ○ 41, 45, 51 Low-Carbon Green Management, Win-Win Growth Total value of financial and in-kind contributions to political parties, politicians, and related SO6 N/A Prohibited in Korea by law − institutions by country 88·2011-2012 LG Electronics Sustainability Report Application GRI Index level Related Contents Page Society Total number of legal actions for anticompetitive behavior, antitrust, and monopoly SO7 ○ Fair Trade 76 practice and their outcomes SO8 Monetary value of significant fines for noncompliance with regulations △ Fair Trade 76 SO9 Operations with significant potential or actual negative impacts on local communities △ EESH Management 47 49 Prevention and mitigation measures implemented in operations with significant SO10 potential or actual negative impacts on local communities. △ EESH Management 47 49 Product Responsibility Life cycle stages in which health and safety impacts of products and services are PR1 ○ Product Quality and Safety, Greener Products 30 31,35 41 assessed for improvement PR2 Total number of non-compliance incidents with regulations concerning health and safety × − − PR3 Type of product and service information required by procedures ○ Greener Products 35 41 Total number of non-compliance incidents with regulations concerning products and services PR4 △ Responsible Marketing Communication 28 information & Labeling PR5 Practices related to customer satisfaction including survey results on satisfaction ○ Consumer Satisfaction and After-Sales Service 32 33 PR6 Programs for adherence to standards and voluntary codes related to marketing communications ○ Responsible Marketing Communication 28 PR7 Total number of non-compliance incidents with regulations concerning marketing communications × − PR8 Total number of substantiated complaints regarding customer privacy and data losses △ Information Security and Privacy Protection 77 Monetary value of significant fines for non-compliance with laws concerning the provision and use PR9 △ Responsible Marketing Communication 28 of products and services UNGC Index Ten Principles Our Activities Related Content Page Human Rights Principle 1: Businesses should supBased on our management philosophy of Respecting Human Dignity, LGE respects Our Philosophy 9 port and respect the protection of and complies with the standards, laws and regulations established by international CSR Management 14-15 internationally proclaimed human institutions and organizations such as the Universal Declaration of Human Rights by Business Partner 50-55 rights; and the United Nations. To ensure fundamental human rights and labor rights of emLabor Rights Protection 69-71 Principle 2: make sure that they ployees as well as those of our suppliers, are not complicit in human rights abuses. Labour Principle 3: Businesses should LGE continues its efforts to establish a corporate culture that values the diversity Labor Rights Protection 69-71 Standards uphold the freedom of association of our employees and promotes creativity and autonomy. Owing to its efforts, LGE Business Partner 50-55 and the effective recognition of the is leading an exemplary labor management relationship, reaching an agreement in CSR Management 14-15 right to collective bargaining; collective bargaining and wage negotiations without labor dispute for 23 consecuPrinciple 4: the elimination of all tive years (as of February 2012) and declaring Union Social Responsibility(USR) forms of forced and compulsory charter. Additionally, LGE joined the Electronic Industry Citizenship Coalition (EICC), labour; established an enterprise-wide policy for protecting labor rights across the supply Principle 5: the effective abolition of chain and amended standard purchase agreement forms accordingly. LGE also conchild labour; and ducted a self-assessment in all of its 213 business sites, at home and abroad, and Principle 6: the elimination of disimplemented improvement measures. crimination in respect of employment and occupation. Environment Principle 7: Businesses should supLGE strives to contribute to the society’s sustainable growth by minimizing negaEnvironment 34-49 port a precautionary approach to tive environmental impacts resulted from our business activities. LGE made great environmental challenges; strides in improving energy performance and carbon disclosure in development of Principle 8: undertake initiatives greener products. The company also surpassed its GHG reduction targets across to promote greater environmental products’ life cycle, while being highly recognized by Carbon Disclosure Project responsibility; and (CDP) Korea for its efforts towards promoting low-carbon culture. LGE strengthPrinciple 9: encourage the developened the integrated EESH (Energy, Environment, Safety, and Health) certification ment and diffusion of environmensystem and global EESH audit system at all production sites. LGE is currently partally friendly technologies. ticipating as a member of the steering committee represent Korean companies at Caring for Climate. Anti-Corruption Principle 10: Businesses should LGE’ “Jeong-Do Management” is a guiding principle for all action taken by emJeong-Do Management 75 work against corruption in all its ployees. To help our employees remain true to the spirit of Jeong-Do ManageLabor Rights Protection 69-71 forms, including extortion and ment, LGE established Code of Ethics and Conduct Guidelines. LGE also applies Business Partner 50-55 bribery. the same standard to all suppliers and business partners. This year, the company engaged in various activities such as distributing code of ethics handbook in 5 languages and requiring employees and suppliers to sign a pledge for Jeong-Do Management. Additionally, LGE maintains the ethics category in its CSR risk management program to monitor its business sites’ and suppliers’ ethics management systems. Participants of this report Special Issue Corporate R&D Planning Team chang hyun Kim LG-Hitachi Water Solutions Young taek Kim Public Affairs Cooperation Team Kyung ha Hwang, Kyu Yeon Jeong Materiality Report Brand Communication Team Ji Hyeoun Jang Marketing Activation Team Joon Young Lee PL/Safety Team Soo youn Kim CS Strategy Team Chang do Kim Green Strategy Part Young Min Kim, Hee myung Shin Climate Change Thchnology Team Min Chul Shin Environment & Safety Team Jin Yeub Jung, Chan Ki Kim Vendor Development Team Jong tak Seok Changwon Shared Growth Drive Team Se kyu Hong LGEUS Standards & Environmental Affairs Timothy Mcgrady Corporate Culture Task Seon hee Jeon, Phillip Anderson Talent Recruiting Team Young Joo Kim Talent Development Team Hae jung Joo Planning/Global Learning Team Jae Sun Ha HR Planning Team Dong Sun Ahn Labor Management Cooperation Team Cheol min Oh, Jin Ho Kim Management Report Corporate Legal Team Joo Hwa Park IR Team Yoo Won Chang Compliance Team Cheong seok Lee Ethics Bureau Ha yeon Moon Fair Trade Team In Sang Cho Information Security Team Ji Hoon Kim Policy Cooperation Team Sung Yong Kang CSR Team Roy Kim, Ho sung Joo, Se won Min, Ji Young Kim, Stansen Jang, Hyun jin Jeon, Chang woo Yu, Jung hyun Park LG Electronics' Sustainability Report 2005 2006 / 2007 2008 published in october 2006 published in october 2008 published in july 2009 2009 2010 2011 2012 published in june 2010 published in may 2011 published in May 2012 Designed by slowalk This report was printed with soy ink on environmentally-friendly, FSC -certified paper. The Forest Stewardship Council (FSC) mark TM is awarded to paper and pulp products that meet the strict standards set to ensure forests are managed responsibly and remain a truly renewable resource. As opposed to traditional petroleum-based ink, soy-based ink is more environmentally-freindly and has low levels of VOCs (volatile organic compounds), which helps to reduce air pollution by minimizing toxic emissions.
