RUSSIAN ACADEMY of ENTREPRENEURSHIP 14, Radio street, Moscow105005 Russia Тel/fax: 7(495)632-2426 е-mail: inter@rusacad.ru Ref.# 116 of 22 May 2012 H.E. Ban Ki-moon Secretary-General United Nations New York, NY 10017 USA Dear Mr. Secretary-General, We are pleased to reconfirm that NGO “Russian Academy of Entrepreneurship” supports the ten principles of the UN Global Compact with respect to human rights, labor, environment, and anti-corruption. We do believe that these principles will contribute to the prosperous future of the entire world community. With this goal we continued our efforts to contribute to the realization of ten principles of the UNGC through participation in the UN Global Compact Network Russia, involvement in CSR and sustainable development initiatives, engagement in business-civil society partnerships and different projects using our educational and scientific potential. We recognize that one of essential requirements for participation in the Global Compact is submission of a Communication on Progress (COP) and believe that it will help our Academy, professors, students, partners and all stakeholders to understand better what we can do together to promote UNGC ten principles. Sincerely, Vladimir Balabanov RAE Rector 2012 Communication on Progress Participant Russian Academy of Entrepreneurship Published 2012/05/23 Time period 5/2010 – 5/2012 Format Stand alone document – Basic COP Template Differentiation Level This COP qualifies for the Global Compact Active level Self-assessment Includes an explicit statement of continued support for the UN Global Compact and its ten principles Description of actions or relevant policies related to Human Rights Description of actions or relevant policies related to Labor Description of actions or relevant policies related to Environment Description of actions or relevant policies related to Anti-Corruption Includes a measurement of outcomes Human Rights Assessment, policy and goals Description of the relevance of human rights for the company (i.e. human rights risk-assessment). Description of policies, public commitments and company goals on Human Rights. The Russian Academy of Entrepreneurship fully respects, supports and has implemented in its activities the principles underlying universal human rights, including the right to equal opportunity and non-discrimination, the right to the security of persons, the right of employees (including opposition to any forms of discrimination, the right to a safe and healthy working place, the right to freedom of association and collective bargaining. In this respect the RAE supports the United Nations Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the Fundamental International Labor Organization Conventions, the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental freedoms and other international and regional human rights treaties. All internationally recognized Human Rights principles are incorporated in RAE Internal Personnel Code and are applicable to every employee. We respect differences, care about all our students, professors, employees and do not discriminate against anybody on the basis of nationality, ethnic origin, age, sex or religious or political belief. Our main goal is to provide high-standards education to our students in economics and sociology according to six principles of responsible business education. We do our best to ensure that our students will become genuine ethical business leaders molding future of our society. All RAE branches in more than 10 regional cities are requested to adhere to six principles or responsible business education and to UN Global Compact ten principles. Every business partner cooperating with RAE, external consultants and part-time employees must adhere to these principles too. One of RAE core policies is to develop our employees, professors and students potential using internal training, studies and scientific research. Implementation Description of concrete actions to implement Human Rights policies, address Human Rights risks and respond to Human Rights violations. A formal training on Human Rights issues is given to all RAE employees and they are signing a special document specifying their compliance with them. At the same time we are exerting efforts to guarantee privacy standards to all RAE employees. One of steps in this direction is limitation to number of questions they have to answer in documents when applying to work at the Academy. The Academy is promoting Human Rights also through study courses, international and internal scientific conferences, RAE publications. Such issues as socially responsible entrepreneurship, sustainable development, ethical leadership are constantly covered in these publications. In May 2012 special reports “Multinational companies and Human Rights” focusing on J.Ruggy report on Business and Human Rights and report on ISO26000 Social Responsibility standard have been presented at the International scientific student conference at the Academy. We were organizing special course in economics for groups of disabled persons since 1995. At present over 50 foreign students are studying at the Academy and all of them get fair and decent treatment respecting their rights and freedoms. Students are represented via their Student Council which head is a member of the Scientific Council of the Academy according to its statutes. Our students have an access to decent accommodation and health services. We recognize the risks to which foreign students are exposed when entering new and unfamiliar environment coming to studies from their native cities. RAE is providing assistance in facilitating foreign student accommodation including visa services, special student transportation cards and other measures. The same services are provided to Russian students coming to study at RAE from other regions of our country. Student outdoor sports games with participation of professors, RAE employees and local public have been organized annually by the Academy in Moscow countryside to promote students and general public interest in healthy lifestyle. Measurement of outcomes Description of how the company monitors and evaluates performance. RAE Internal Personnel Code is applicable to all employees. Top managers have to report to the Scientific Council about RAE performance including Human Right implementation on annual basis. No complaints about Human Rights violations have been received at the Academy so far. Labour Assessment, policy and goals Description of the relevance of labour rights for the company (i.e. labour rightsrelated risks and opportunities). Description of written policies, public commitments and company goals on labour rights. The RAE is aiming to ensure equal treatment of all employees regarding their working conditions, including remuneration and opportunity to achieve post or get other promotion. As far as rules of recruitment and employment are concerned, all our internal regulations respect or are based on the Labor Code effective and valid in the Russian Federation. RAE meets all statutory health and safety obligations and frequently goes a step further, with initiatives to keep this issue high on the agenda. Protection of Internationally recognized principles including Labor Standards is an integral part of our labor policies. Implementation Description of concrete actions taken by the company to implement labour policies, address labour risks and respond to labour violations. One of RAE priorities is constant development of its personnel and professors potential. Over two past years more than 11 RAE employees and 32 students have defended their scientific theses and have been awarded PhD and Doctorate degrees. They have promoted their status within the Academy, became members of the scientific community and began to teach as professors. In 2011 labor safety rules have been revised and total restructuring of labor safety system has been undertaken at the Academy including extensive accident prevention personnel training program with final exams taken by regional labor safety authorities and special labor safety certificates issued to all working places and premises. RAE organizes regular health checks for its employees annually free of charge, doctors and special medical equipment have been brought to RAE campus. Measurement of outcomes Description of how the company monitors and evaluates performance. No claim regarding violation of labor rights was reported in the period covered by the COP. Special report on labor rights issues is prepared by Personnel Department and submitted to RAE Scientific Council annually. Questionnaires are regularly prepared to interview employees about their labor conditions satisfaction and to collect proposals on improvement of their working conditions and rules. Environment Assessment, policy and goals Description of the relevance of environmental protection for the company (i.e. environmental risks and opportunities). Description of policies, public commitments and company goals on environmental protection. Promotion of internationally recognized principles on Environment Protection is expressly part of RAE activities, students training, area of scientific research. RAE stands for timely and continuous observation of legislative requirements applicable to the protection of working and living environments and timely and continuous observation of other obligations in this area including continuous monitoring of the working and living environment quality at all workplaces. The Academy undertakes efforts to increase awareness of all employees through education and training in environment protection issues and adherence to principles of environmentally respectful behavior. Implementation Description of concrete actions to implement environmental policies, address environmental risks and respond to environmental incidents. RAE contributes to promotion of environment protection knowledge through environment protection course given to our students, at different events, seminars, conferences, regular discussions in our publications. RAE constantly updates its computer and other technological base to ensure that equipment with lower electricity consumption is used. Professors, students and staff members are encouraged to use double-sided printing to decrease paper usage. We have stopped printing hard copy New Year/Christmas cards to reduce paper consumption and are using electronic greeting cards only. Personnel and students are encouraged to save electricity to reduce consumption of it and thus to save fuel and diminish emissions. Students, professors and stuff members are encouraged to reduce waste and use recyclable products as much as possible. Special Nature Day with voluntary labor activities by students and professors including planting trees and improving surrounding premises are organized annually. Measurement of outcomes Description of how the company monitors and evaluates environmental performance. Issues of environment protection are regularly discussed at the Scientific Council, special report by premises administration is submitted quarterly. No claim regarding Environment was reported in the period covered by the COP. Anti-Corruption Assessment, policy and goals Description of the relevance of anti-corruption for the company (i.e. anticorruption risk-assessment). Description of policies, public commitments and company goals on anti-corruption. RAE takes a firm stand in this sphere and does not tolerate corruption, illegal or unethical behavior. This is laid out in our Internal Personnel Code which is a binding document for all our employees. The Academy tries to ensure that each employee firmly abides by the Code otherwise immediate measures will be taken. One of RAE principles is our total transparency for authorities, partners, families of students and general public. Implementation Description of concrete actions to implement anti-corruption policies, address anti-corruption risks and respond to incidents. RAE promotes anti-corruption principles through its publications, conferences and other events. Students are given special course on anti-corruption problems with the aim to educate them to become new generation of ethical business leaders. RAE personnel department carries out compliance training, and our regional branches are regularly checked by Scientific Council special missions. Public announcement of new or vacant position is made based on which interested applicants submit their applications. We regulate the offer or receipt of gifts, hospitality or expenses. RAE ensures to maintain accurate ledger and financial records which properly and fairly document all financial transactions. Anti-corruption course is an integral part of students curricular, as well as special course on business ethics. RAE strives to maximum transparency so that authorities, partners, families of students and general public clearly understand our everyday practices and activities. With this aim RAE constantly organizes press conferences, issues regular press releases and remains fully transparent and open to the public. Every month the Academy organized “Day of open doors” so that every person can come and see with their own eyes our premises and day-to-day activities. Measurement of outcomes Description of how the company monitors and evaluates anti-corruption performance. No claim or accusation of corruption was reported in the period covered by the COP. Regular anti-corruption compliance and awareness trainings for personnel are held. RAE CEO expresses strong commitment to zero-tolerance towards bribery in all speeches, documents, during working meetings and public events. Reports on measures and results in this sphere are submitted to the Scientific Counsel annually.
