2011 Sustainability Report A Promise for a Happy Society 2011 Sustainability Report [3rd Report] Objective This report is geared toward providing our sustainability management vision, strategies and activities in a transparent manner and listening to stakeholders’ opinions, thereby reflecting them on our sustainability management policies and decision-making processes. Report Highlights This third report covers our sustainability management activities by stakeholders. We conducted a materiality test based on internal and external policy and regulations, media research, interviews and surveys. We focused on activities found to be highly material by the assessment. We created a Disclosure on Management Approach (DMA) to each stakeholder section while making proper use of quantitative and qualitative performances. We marked pages to enable stakeholders to find relevant performances on the back part of the report. Reporting Period We publish our sustainability report every two years. This is our third report which covers the period from FY2009 to FY2010 (between April 1st, 2009 and March 31st, 2011) while our activities and performances after the period are also included in order to provide our stakeholders with more accurate information. Reporting Principles This report is written with reference to the G3.1 Reporting Guidelines of GRI (Global Reporting Initiative), the Financial Service Sector Supplement of GRI, and BEST Guideline. This report was verified by the Institute for Industrial Policy Studies (IPS) in order to ensure the reliability and accuracy. Reporting Scope This report describes performances at Dongbu Insurance head office and domestic business sites including regional headquarters and claims service centers. However, overseas branches and offices are not included. Environmental data is centered on the data of the head office building. The main currency unit used in this report is the Korean won (KRW). Dongbu Insurance expresses its will for sustainability management in its third sustainability report. Dongbu Insurance informs all stakeholders such as customers, investors, employees, partners and society of economic, social and environmental activities and performances of Dongbu Insurance and promises to fulfill its social responsibilities as a corporate citizen through the publication of this report. Contents 08 CEO’s Message 10 About Dongbu Insurance 14 Dongbu Insurance Highlights 16 Disclosure on Management Approach 18 Sustainability Management Reporting Sustainability Management Activities 30 Customers 38 Employees 46 Partners 56 Social Responsibilities 64 Shareholders and Investors 68 Environmental 76 Appendix 77 Third-Party’s Assurance Statement 80 GRI G3.1 Index 85 Statement 86 Joining UN Global Compact 87 History 88 Awards and Recognition 89 DJSI Korea 90 Memberships in Associations and Organizations 91 Code of Ethics 92 Glossary of Terms For Society Where Humanity Is Happy In order to make employees, customers and stakeholders happy to become a sustainable company through customer satisfaction, Dongbu Insurance is building a sustainability management system matching those of the world’s leading insurers by establishing its vision, “a global insurance financial group which pursues a happy society with customers” and working out 14 sustainable management strategies. With an eye toward sharing happiness with more people, the company is managing the matching grant-based Promy Heart Fund and making use of the fund as a financial source for social contribution and donation activities while delivering love and care to people in need in local communities through the Promy Volunteer Corps. We are keeping our warm promises for society where humanity is happy. For Society Where the Earth Is Happy Dongbu Insurance is taking part in various Green Start activities such as holding Children’s Environmental Painting Festival and donating money to Environmental Education School after signing an MOU with the Ministry of Environment and the Green Start Network for the first time in the Korean insurance industry. We are taking part in the CDP (Carbon Disclosure Project) recognizing our direct and indirect responsibilities for climate change due to green house gas emissions while taking worsening environmental problems seriously. We are also developing environment-friendly insurance policies and are carrying out activities to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. Through these activities, Dongbu Insurance is honoring its clean promises for society where the earth is happy. For Society with a Brighter Future Dongbu Insurance announced its new slogan, Dynamic Dongbu for 2010 to accomplish management goals while pursuing two-way communication, practical value and self-controlled management in its dynamic corporate culture. With an aim of creating an insurance business culture for win-win growth with customers, we are building a sound labor-management culture by running a wide variety of programs for creating a great workplace. In 2011 Dongbu Insurance was externally recognized as the company was selected as a leading company in the insurance category in the DJSI evaluation for three straight years. Through these activities, Dongbu Insurance is honoring its honest promises for society with a bright future. 2011 Sustainability Report Dongbu Insurance CEO Message Dongbu Insruance runs the Dear Stakeholders Who Support Dongbu Insurance. Sustainability Management I would like to thank you for your strong and steady support for Dongbu Insurance. Committee to go ahead with Dongbu Insurance was able to lay the foundation for stable growth despite the prolonged economic companywide sustainability slump due to the financial crisis in Europe and the downgrade of the credit rating of the U.S. In management. The company terms of business performances, our company recorded the highest growth rate while its business pushes for activities by organefficiency indicators such as income, a solvency margin ratio and retention rate stayed at a top level in the industry. izing the economic, environmental and social sub-committees. But a major worldwide trend assures us that a company without a sustainability management system These efforts paid off. Dongbu which pursues economic goals such as growth and profits only will have a very uncertain future. Insurance’s sustainability manOur company is running the Sustainability Management Committee, the highest decisionagement was externally recmaking organization with the CEO and heads of business divisions participating for companywide ognized as the DJSI ranked the sustainability management. We established the Economic, Environmental and Social Subcommittees company first in the insurance to push for activities practically around relevant departments. business for three straight years in 2011. We are taking part in the CDP (Carbon Disclosure Project), developing environment-friendly insurance policies and reducing greenhouse gas with strong awareness of climate change by greenhouse gas emissions and others. Dongbu Insurance delivers love and care to marginalized people in communities through the Promy Volunteer Corps. At the same time, our company is managing the matching grant-based Promy Heart Fund where employees donate some of their salaries and the company donates the same amount of money donated by them. Moreover, we are creating an insurance business culture where we can enjoy win-win growth with customers through development of insurance products that can meet customer needs and complete sales. Furthermore, we are fostering a sound labor-management culture by running a wide array of programs to create great workplaces. Dongbu Insurance has steadily pushed for sustainability management activities. In 2011, our company was selected as a leading company in the insurance category in the DJSI evaluation for three straight years. This fact proves that our corporate social responsibility-based management was duly recognized externally. Dongbu Insurance will not rest on its laurels. We will grow into a more sincere corporate citizen whiling sharing love from our stakeholders with neighbors in need. Thank you. Kim Jeong-nam, President and CEO of Dongbu Insurance CEO Message 08 l 09 “ Dongbu Insurance is pushing for sustainability management for its balanced growth in the economic, environmental and social sectors while understanding the historic ” trend. 2011 Sustainability Report Dongbu Insurance About Dongbu Insurance We pursue win-win growth with various stakeholders such as shareholders, customers and employees under our vision of “A Global Insurance Financial Group which Pursues a Happy Society with Customers” About Dongbu Insurance 10 l 11 Corporate Overview • COMPANY PROFILE Company Profile I Established in March 1962 as the first auto insurance company in Korea, (As of March 31, 2011) Company name Dongbu Insurance Co.Ltd. Dongbu Insurance has since grown into a comprehensive insurance company providing all types of Dongbu Financial Center, products and services of the non-life insurance sector. The company is making companywide efforts 432, Teheran Road, Head office Gangnam-gu, Seoul, to create new value through the steady growth of the company and communication with stakeholders 135-523, Korea to realize the vision of “A Global Insurance Financial Group which Pursues a Happy Society with Date of establishment March 2, 1962 Customers” on the basis of three initiatives – globalization, specialization and creating more added CEO Kim Jeong-nam value. We posted 18.9% year-on-year growth, KRW7,113.7 billion in direct premiums written and [Domestic] 50 branches, 12 claims service centers KRW284.4 billion in net income. Network [Overseas] 3 branches (Hawaii, Guam, LA) 2 offices (New York, Beijing) Organization and Subsidiaries I The head office is organized into eight divisions. Under the Joint venture (Cheongdo) divisions are 23 teams and 53 departments. The head office sets the vision and strategies for the Paid-in capital KRW35.4 billion entire company and establishes policies for each business segment. Nationwide, we have seven No. of employees 4,181 Total Shareholders' Equity KRW13,077.1 billion regional headquarters, 50 branches and six customer service centers. Total assets KRW12,871.3 billion In addition, 12 claims service centers across the nation, call centers in Seoul and Jeonju and ※Four overseas branches and Three overseas telecommuting call centers deal with customers’ claims and customer services. The insurer owns offices are under operation as the New York six subsidiaries -Dongbu Life Insurance, Dongbu Securities, Dongbu Insurance Claim Adjustment, branch and the Jakarta/Ho Chi Minh branch were established in 2011. Dongbu Claim Adjustment & Settlement, Dongbu Claim Survey & Investigation and Dongbu ※Contract-basis workers are included. Customer & Network Service • Organizational Chart Management Support Div. HR Development Div. Customer and Product Support Div. Management Committee, Risk Management Claims Service Div. Committee, Outside BOD Director Nominating CEO Committee, Remuneration Asset Management Div. Committee, Audit Committee. Individual Business Div. New Business Div. Corporate Business Div. • Subsidiaries Date of Company name Major businesses establishment Paid-in capital (KRW) No. of shares held Ownership Dongbu Life Insurance Life Insurance Apr. 14, 1989 145.3 billion 11.45 million 39.4% Dongbu Securities Investment Dec. 20, 1982 212.1 billion 8.46 million 19.9% Dongbu Insurance Claim Adjustment Claims Adjustment Feb. 29, 1984 1 billion 200,000 100.0% Dongbu CAS Claims Adjustment for Third Insurance Mar. 17, 2011 300 million 60,000 100.0% Dongbu CSI Claims Adjustment for Third Insurance Mar. 17, 2011 200 million 40,000 100.0% Claims Adjustment and Other Dongbu CNS Mar. 17, 2011 200 million 40,000 100.0% Financial Support Service 2011 Sustainability Report Dongbu Insurance Overseas Network Beijing New York Cheongdo LA Hawaii Ho Chi Minh Guam Jakarta Overseas Branches: Guam, Hawaii, LA and New York Overseas Offices: Beijing, Ho Chi Minh and Jakarta Joint venture: Cheongdo Shareholder Breakdown I As of the end of March 2011, three major shareholders own 26.00% of the company shares. The Dongbu Cultural Foundation owns 5.00% while foreign investors and individual shareholders have 34.64% and 23.76%, respectively. Treasury stocks account for 10.60%. • Major Shareholders (as of Mar. 31, 2011) (unit: share, %) Name No.of shares Ownership Kim Nam-ho 9,951,520 14.06 Kim Jun-ki 5,568,500 7.87 Kim Ju-won 2,879,640 4.07 Dongbu Cultural Foundation 3,539,070 5.00 Treasury Stocks 7,501,660 10.60 Foreign Investors 24,526,865 34.64 Others 16,832,745 23.76 Total 70,800,000 100.00 About Dongbu Insurance 12 l 13 Products and Services Dongbu Insurance develops and offers its customers insurance products that can protect them from various risks. At the same time, the company is fulfilling its corporate social responsibilities by developing products in consideration of social and environmental aspects. Moreover, we put forth efforts to protect customers’ properties and enhance their health management by providing various services after customers buy our insurance policies. • Product Category Details Major Products ·Personal Auto Insurance Compensating for injuries and property your damage when car Auto ·Business Auto Insurance accidents occur ·Commercial Auto Insurance ·Smart Driver Insurance Driver & Compensating for injuries in daily life and drive ·Better Driver Insurance Accident ·Bravo Injury Insurance Providing one-policy, integrated compensation for risks which ·Smart Convergence Insurance Convergence arise in daily life ·Family Life Insurance ·100-Year-Old Youth Insurance Compensating for medical expenses within agreed ranges, ·Cancer Plus Guarantee Health including costs of treatment and hospital charges Insurance ·Smart Diabetes CI Insurance Children & ·Smart Child Love Insurance Studying Abroad Compensating for diseases and injuries of children ·Insurance for Student Studying Abroad Saving product which eases economic burdens on customers after ·Smart Pension Insurance Pension & Saving their retirement ·Wells Plus Insurance ·Outdoor Leisure Insurance Travel & Leisure Covering risk during travel and leisure activities ·Domestic and International Traveler Insurance ·Smart General Fire Insurance Compensating for damages from fires and disasters ·Smart General Home Fire & Disaster Anti-natural disaster insurance is government-supported insurance. Insurance The government pays some of the insurance money ·Anti-Natural Disaster Farming Insurance ·Loans on Insurance Policies Loan Making loans for economic stability of customers ·Loans on Real Estate ·Loans on Credit • Service Category Details Car Care Service Car inspection, 10% discounts of prices and service charges and car history management ·Health Care Service: Telephone counseling by specialized medical staff, health contents and special treatment reservation Promy Health Care Service ·On-line Health Management Program: An on-line health management program and health counseling Nursing & Funeral Service Introducing nurses and offering total funeral service Emergency Dispatch Service Offering quick and accurate services through 560 Promy World shops Offering quick and accurate services to help troubled drivers through 540 Promy Dispatch-to-Site Service World shops Offering 36-item auto inspection service, maintenance history management Auto Care Service service, repaired car delivery service, car sanitation service through 400 Promy World maintenance centers. Reservation Service of Inspection and Providing inspection and registration services through 250 shops on behalf of customers. Registration on Behalf of Customers 2011 Sustainability Report Dongbu Insurance Dongbu Insurance Highlights Signing MOU with the Ministry of Environment On January 14, 2010, Dongbu Insurance signed an MOU to cooperate with the Ministry of Environment and the Green Start Network, a first in the insurance industry. The company is making Ranking 1st in DJSI Korea for 3 Straight Years endeavors to establish a green life culture to In 2011, Dongbu Insurance came in first for three years running in the insurance industry reduce greenhouse gas emissions by taking part in in the DJSI Korea evaluation by Dow Jones, the world’s largest financial information various Green Start activities such as the Children’s provider. SAM, the best global sustainability management evaluator of Switzerland, Environmental Painting Festival and donating selected the company as a member of the Bronze Class in its Sustainability Yearbook. money to Environmental Education School. Listed in the Socially Responsible Investment Index The Korea Stock Exchange included Dongbu Insurance in the Socially Responsible Investment Index by evaluating the sustainability of companies such as the environment, society and corporate governance. Joining Global Compact By joining the UN Global Compact, a joint action group between the UN. and Proclaiming New Slogan “Dynamic Dongbu” companies in November 2011, Dongbu Dongbu Insurance announced a new slogan, “Dynamic Dongbu” to realize good Insurance expressed its will to honor and communication among employees, practical value and self-management in a dynamic practice ten principles such as human rights, corporate culture and reach its business goals early on the basis of them. labor, the environment and anti-corruption. Sustainability Management Highlight 14 l 15 Regular Meetings with CEO Dongbu Insurance holds regular meetings between the CEO and its employees with “realizing good communication among employees, practical value and selfmanagement” as basic management Development of Eco-Friendly Insurance Policies (Evergreen principles every month. The meeting is held Auto Insurance Product) in various places such as pubs, theaters, Dongbu Insurance developed and has been selling Evergreen Auto Insurance Product company houses and mountains. which sends documents such as insurance policies and provisions via email in consideration of environmental aspects since December, 2009. The company is reducing Receiving ‘BBB+(Positive)’ the use of paper through this product and accumulating part of the saved money as an Rating environmental fund and using the fund to support Environmental Education School and Dongbu Insurance maintained a “BBB+” rating nurture environmental leaders. in a credit evaluation by S&P, an international credit evaluation organization in 2011. In the outlook sector, the company became the only company to enjoy the elevation of its rating from “Stable” to “Positive”. This means that S&P recognized Dongbu Insurance’s excellent insurance sales results, high capital adequacy level and stable business performance. In particular, such results are more meaningful in that the company achieved them despite the financial crisis in Europe and the deterioration of the credit rating of the U.S. Participating in CDP Winning Grand Prize at 2010 GWP Awards Since 2009, Dongbu Insurance has been taking part in the worldwide CDP (Carbon Dongbu Insurance won the Grand Prize at Great Work Place (GWP) Awards by GWP Disclosure Project) with strong awareness of Korea This is a result of the company’s steady efforts to create good workplaces and climate change by greenhouse gas emissions means that its sound labor-management culture has been externally recognized. and others. 2011 Sustainability Report Dongbu Insurance DMA (Disclosure on Management Approach) Shareholders and Investors Customers · Established 3 management principles (excellent com·R  aised internal customer satisfaction munication among employees, practical value and points (80) self-management) ·P  rovided health care service · Founded 3 subsidiaries ·D  eveloped insurance policies with partici· Held EV explanatory session pation of customers ·R  an Consumer Review Group Environment Employees · Carried out Green Start Movement ·E levated employee satisfaction · Developed “Evergreen,” environmentpoints (75.6) friendly auto insurance ·E stablished communication · Took part in CDP culture between CEO and employees ·W on Grand Prize of Korea GWP Communities Partners · Activated Promy Volunteer Corps ·R  aised sales partner satisfaction points · 2,230 took part in Promy Heart Fund (62) · Contributed to communities through ·1  16,312 people completed education sports sponsorship course annually ·D  eveloped system for partners (GA portal, GTMS, PRM, Promy Car System) Disclosure on Management Approach 16 l 17 Sector Vision and Goals Strategy Main Results (2009 to 2010) Plan (2011 to 2012) Managing Organization Shareholders · Maximizing corporate value ·Activating communication · Established 3 manage· Speed up overseas projects · M  anagement planning with shareholders and ment principles (excellent · Expand size around profitdepartment and Investors investors communication among ·G  eneral affairs department ability · Practical value-oriented employees, practical value · Management innovation · Advance management department management and self-management) efficiency ·A  ccounting support depart· Elevating work efficiency · Founded 3 subsidiaries ment through management in· Held EV explanatory session novation Customers · Good company which · Developing insurance · Raised internal customer · Steadily raise internal cus· CS marketing department leads customers to policies by considering satisfaction points (80) tomer satisfaction points (81) · Consumer protection departbecome sponsors through customers needs · Provided health care service · Provide better-than-expected ment differentiated customer · Systematic customer com· Developed insurance customer service · Customer support departrelation management and plaint management policies with participation of · Strengthen consumer protecment active customer protection · Quality guarantee through customers tion through complete sales · Companywide CS departsystem complete sales · Ran Consumer Review (complete sales ratio: 97%) ment Group · Reinforce protection of customer information Employees · Good workplace where · Practicing GWP at global · Elevated employee satisfac· Elevate employee satisfaction · Personnel management employees realize dreams level tion points (75.6) points (78) department and visions · Developing excellent human · Established communication · Advance innovation program · HRD department resources culture between CEO and · Expand human resources · Building fair remuneration employees with global competitiveness system · Won Grand Prize of Korea · Activate dynamic leaders GWP Partners · Building reliable partnership · Expanding growth engine for · Raised sales partner satisfac· Raise sales partner satisfac·S  ales strategy department for steady win-win growth PA and raising efficiency tion points (62) tion points (64) · Sales management department · Supporting partners with · 116,312 people completed · 120,000 will complete edu·S  ales support department efficient systems education course annually cation course annually ·C  laims planning department · Activating communication · developed system for · Enhance GA performances · Auto claims support department with claims service partners partners (GA portal, GTMS, through system ·N  ationwide claims service centPRM, Promy Car System) · Strengthen communication ers and claims department channel with claims service partners Communities · Fulfilling corporate social · Implementing specialized · Activated Promy Volunteer · S  et main social contribu· Personnel management responsibilities social contribution programs Corps tion areas · General affairs department · Strengthening employees’ ·2  ,230 took part in Promy · Promote all employees’ · PR department Promy Volunteer Corps Heart Fund social contribution activities · Basketball team activities · Contributed to communities · R  einforce external coopera· Strengthening activities through sports sponsorship tion and network on which characteristics · Expand sales of insurance of insurance business are for low-income families reflected Environment ·B  ecoming leading company · Specializing environmental · Carried out Green Start ·C  onduct carbon-neutral · Risk Management Research in environmental managerisk management Movement activities on full scale Center ment in 2020 · Minimizing environmental ·D  eveloped “Evergreen,” ·E  xpand development of ·G  eneral affairs department Reducing carbon emissions by footprints environment-friendly auto environmental products and ·P  roduct-related department 10% by 2015 (per unit area) · Expanding green finance insurance services ·F  inancial planning departand environmental projects ·T  ook part in CDP ·A  ctivate Green Start Movement ment 2011 Sustainability Report Dongbu Insurance Sustainability Management Under the goal of “Sustainable Company through Customer Satisfaction,” Dongbu Insurance is building a sustainable management system that can match those of world-class insurance firms by establishing 14 strategies. Sustainability Management 18 l 19 Corporate Governance Status of BOD I As of March 31, 2010, the Board of Directors Operation of BOD I The BOD must meet on at least a quarterly (BOD) consisted of two inside directors and three outside directors. basis, but extraordinary meetings can also be convened at the direction The two inside directors are the CEO and a full-time auditor. The of the Chairman or a designated director if necessary in accordance proportion of outside directors is 60%, thus satisfying the legal with the regulation of the BOD. The CEO of Dongbu Insurance is the requirement (50% or higher). Under the BOD, four committees chairman of the BOD. The company appointed Lee Keun-young as are in operation according to the relevant laws and the Articles of a senior outside director. The BOD handles the matters related to the Incorporation – the Management Committee, the Risk Management shareholders’ meeting and issues on the company’s management and Committee, the Outside Director Nominating Committee, the financial status and directors and executives. Social and environmental Remuneration Committee and the Audit Committee. These factors are considered in the process of decision-making. In order to committees deliberate and decide on the matters consigned by the secure the fairness and efficiency in the process of decision-making and BOD and issues that are general and frequently happen and need to prevent the conflict of opinions, at least half of the directors must be quick decision-making. present at all meetings. In addition, a majority of those in attendance must approve the passage of resolutions. The voting rights of directors • BOD Members (as of the end of December 2011) Category Name Responsibility Career Highlights who cannot use their voting rights due to interest issues are excluded Kim JeongPresident and CEO Head of New Business Division from the number of voting rights regardless of whether or not they Inside nam BOD Chairman Head of Individual Business Division are present. Shareholders may present agenda items for the general Director Hwang Full-Time Auditor Head of Audit Office at Samsung Fire & shareholders’ meeting to the BOD. Questions on proposed items and Hee-joo Marine Insurance requests for explanations can be made at shareholders’ meetings. Senior Outside Chairman of Financial Supervisory Lee KeunDirector and Member Commission and Financial Supervisory young of Audit Committee Service and Advisor to Law Firm Sejong BOD’s Pursuit of Specialties I The BOD consists of all male Outside Kim SunProfessor of Law at Dongguk Univ. and members who are insurance, financial or legal experts. It is somewhat Director and Member Driector Member of Financial Grievance Settlement jeong of Audit Committee difficult to enhance diversity by securing female members due to Committee at Financial Supervisory Service characteristics of the insurance business which requires specialties. Rhee SooVice Minister of Finance and Outside Director hyoo Chairman of Banking Supervisory Service Dongbu Insurance is making efforts to bring in various specialists with • BOD AND COMMITTEES 1 inside Audit director Independently auditing accounting and work, surveying the status of sales and assets and Committee 2 outside evaluating outside auditors directors 1 inside Management director Supporting the efficient operation of the BOD by dealing with matters related to the Committee 1 outside company’s management that are of an urgent nature or are frequently generated director 1 inside Risk Management director Overseeing management risk effectively, establishing risk policies, and deciding BOD risk levels and limits Committee 2 outside directors Outside Director 3 outside Selecting candidates for outside directors through a fair appointment process Nominating directors Committee 1 inside Remuneration director Reviewing the adequacy of remuneration for the management and employees, checking Committee 2 outside legal observance and submitting results directors 2011 Sustainability Report Dongbu Insurance strong competitiveness regardless of races, genders and disabilities. The • BOD Records (Unit: case) Outside Director Nominating Committee selects and recommends outside No. of Times Submitted Matters Attendance Rate director candidates on the basis of specialties, objectiveness, fairness and experiences. The candidates are appointed as outside directors through resolutions by the BOD and the general shareholders meeting. 8 11 Director Evaluation and Remuneration I In September 2011, Dongbu Insurance established the Remuneration Committee that 90.6% 100.0% 20 builds a remuneration system for the management and employees and 16 evaluates their work performances and remuneration for them. Since then, the company has been running the committee. Remuneration for directors is set based on business results submitted by the 2008 2009 management and evaluations by the Remuneration in consideration of social and environmental contributions along with corporate activities. 14 The establishment of the Remuneration Committee has enhanced transparency in the performance evaluation and remuneration system for the management through the evaluation of the business performances of the management, a constant inspection of whether or not the 94.9% remuneration system is connected to financial risks and the annual 31 inspection of remuneration independent from the management. Corporate Governance I To maintain the soundness of its corporate governance Dongbu Insurance established and has observed “the Corporate Governance Charter.” The company made the charter 2010 public on its homepage. In addition, the company received a grade of “Good” for six years in the assessment of all listed companies by the Korea Corporate Governance Service in a row in 2010. • Main Topics at BOD (2009~2010) In the 2011 assessment which adopted a new evaluation method, the Status of internal accounting management system, evaluation results company won an “A” grade, belonging to the top 4% of the group (29 Evaluation of internal control system companies among 685 listed companies.) Reported Independent accountant’s report Items Audit results Operation of Audit Committee I The Audit Committee carries Quarterly business results and implemented and out audits giving consideration to environmental and social issues and planned items risks. It monitors and assesses the internal control system which includes Approval of financial statements and business report nine categories. One of the outside directors is the chairman of the Audit (tentative) Committee. Moreover, The Audit Team constantly conducts audits as a Finalization of business plans and budgets (tentative) team directly under the Audit Committee and reports results of audits and Resolved Establishment of branch in New York Items punishments to the BOD once or more times. The team reports its audit Establishment of Claim Committee results and any disciplinary actions taken to the BOD at least once a year. Establishment of claim and customer service-specialized subsidiaries In 2010, a total of 171 audits were conducted and 29 moderate/serious disciplinary measures were taken. Sustainability Management 20 l 21 Sustainability Management System Characteristics and Status of Non-Life Insurance risk management system due to climate change, a low birthrate problem Industry I The non-life insurance industry is subject to many and an increasingly aging population. government regulations due to its public characteristics. This is an industry for domestic demand as household insurance policies such Vision and Strategies I Dongbu Insurance aims to become the as auto insurance and long-term accident insurance occupies a big most sustainable company through customer satisfaction. The company portion. In addition, interest rates and the stock market significantly affect is building an advanced sustainability management system by devising performances of the asset management division and profits of long-term 14 sustainability management strategies in accordance with its vision, insurance which occupies a lion’s share of premiums. “a global insurance financial group which pursues a happy society with There were 13 local non-life insurers and 17 foreign non-life insurers in customers.” the domestic market as of the end of 2011. Out of the 13 local firms, 10 companies are comprehensive insurers while the remaining three are one Sustainability Management Organization and Tasks I The auto insurance providers, one reinsurance company, and one guarantee company operates the Sustainability Management Committee chaired insurance company. The non-life insurance industry reported 17.5% yearby the CEO and participated by the head of each business division. on-year growth in direct premiums written, recording KRW47.3 trillion. By The committee makes decisions on major sustainability management insurance type, sales of long-term insurance rapidly grew, while standing issues. Under the Committee, the Sustainability Management Working at KRW30,569.2 billion, up 22.3% from year before. But auto insurance Committee is being operated. and commercial insurance grew only 6.8% and 10.6%, respectively. It Moreover the Sustainability Management Working Committee is is forecast that as non-life insurers are seeking ways to make a foray pushing for sustainability management activities by discovering issues into overseas markets, avoiding competition in the saturated domestic by areas through analyses of internal and external environments related market, their international business will become more active. to sustainability management, the benchmarking of leading insurers and interviews with stakeholders by the Economic, Environmental and Risks and Opportunities for Sustainability Management Social Subcommittees under the Sustainability Management Working I Amid the European financial crisis and a sharp drop in the growth Committee. The tasks are divided into normal tasks and emergency of the world economy, it is expected that various systems will be tasks. The normal tasks are carried out by relevant departments of created and changes the supervision environment will be made in the the Economic, Environmental and Social Subcommittees while the insurance industry. In terms of systems, the government will strengthen emergency tasks by each relevant department. the protection of consumers such as the enforcement of the Personal Information Protection Act and the regulation of excessive prepaid commissions. In terms of supervision, it is expected that capital regulation and the international coherence of system risk management will be enhanced and insurance notices, the crackdown of insurance frauds and the supervision of unfair trade will be strengthened. In terms of sustainability management, companies’ interest in corporate social responsibilities is expected to increase due to change in the government’s policy base for sustainability management, the establishment of the guideline on corporate social responsibilities of insurers and a rise of the importance of reputation risk of companies with the spread of social networks. Moreover, it is expected that preparations for new growth engine development such as the introduction of a mega 2011 Sustainability Report Dongbu Insurance • Sustainability Management Vision Vision A Global Insurance Financial Group which Pursues a Happy Society with Customers Building sustainable management system matching those of advanced insurers Environment Direction Economy Society Pushing for advanced environmental of Enhancing corporate value through balanced Creating commercial and social synergies Strategies management and developing new growth of financial and non-financial risk through strategic social contribution activities business opportunities · Establishing corporate governance which secures transpar· Establishing advanced environmental governance · Pushing for social contribution activities related to insurency and diversity ance industry · Management of companywide environmental · Instilling ethical awareness in all employees’ mind performances · Building fair and equal HR management culture · Integrated management of financial and non-financial risk · Overseeing environmental risk and building · Reinforcing safety and health management system for Strategies · Customer management through two-way communication system that connects to business opportunities employees · Enhancing sustainability management of suppliers and · Excellent management of brand value and performances partners · Building integrated system to deal with stakeholders Organi Sustainability Management Economic, Environmental and Social zation Sustainability Management Committee Working Committee Subcommittees • SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT ORGANIZATION • Core Sustainability Management Issues Overall · Advancing sustainability management strategies Sustainability · E  stablishing working groups and management system for sustainability Management management · Reinforcing independence and transparency of BOD · Strengthening responsibilities for sustainability management · Reinforcing transparency in measures of ethical codes– Strengthening non-financial risk management system Sustainability · Raising retention rate Management Economy Committee · Strengthening consumer protection · Strengthening brand value evaluation Sustainability Management · Building integrated stakeholder management system Working Committee · Strengthening system to analyze stakeholder issues and share the analyses with others (Secretariat: Management Planning)) · Establishing environmental management policies · Strengthening management of environmental KPIs Economy Environment Society (Secretariat: (Secretariat: Risk (Secretariat: · Formulating carbon-neutral plan Management Management HR Environment · Building environmental risk recognition system Planning) Research Center) Management) · Developing products and services Related Departments Related Departments Related · Social responsibility-based asset management and Teams: and Teams: General Departments · Advancing social contribution strategies CS marketing, affairs, market and Teams: · Advancing management of social contribution performances sales strategy, development, long-term PR and general affairs claim planning and HR insurance and · Strengthening external cooperation and network auto insurance · Advocating human rights and diversity Society · Strengthening safety and health management · Introducing supplier guidelines · Reinforcing business partner management · Expanding responsibility on marginalized people Tackling ageing population issues Sustainability Management 22 l 23 RISK MANAGEMENT Risk Management Organization I Risk management at Dongbu Risk Management Strategy I Dongbu Insurance is maintaining Insurance is carried out by the Risk Management Committee, its risk at a proper level compared to its capital available. We are the Risk Management Administrative Committee and the Risk implementing general management of debts and assets to secure Management Department. a stable profit base and maximize corporate value by apportioning risky capitals by kinds and setting up ceilings of risky capitals. • Risk Management Organization • Risk Management Process BOD A stage to discover various risks which can take place in Recognizing connection with business activities. The risks are divided into Risk insurance, interest rate, market and credit risk. Risk Management Committee A stage to measure the amount of risk and evaluate its Measuring and adequacy of the size. Operational risk is divided into Evaluating management, legal, office, IT and reputation risk. The risk is Risk Management Administrative Committee Risk evaluated through a checklist and the RBC System. A stage to steadily observe risk levels and decide reporting Insurance Investment Financial Observing courses, items to report and reporting cycles. The company Risk Sector Sector Insurance Risk has built a relevant reporting system by maintain constant, daily, Sector weekly and monthly monitoring systems. A stage to control risk by defining responsibilities and rights of relevant departments to avoid or decrease risk or maintain Risk Management Department Controlling proper risk. The company is monitoring risk and makes a (Management Risk Management Part) Risk contingency plan in compliance with an integrated risk limit management plan. The company decides important matters by convening the Risk Management Committee and the Risk Management Administrative Committee. Insurance Interest Operational Market Risk Credit Risk Risk Rate Risk Risk Management of Internal Capital Adequacy I Dongbu Insurance has calculated internal capital adequacy through the RBC System set Risk Management Committee by the Financial Supervisory Service since April 2009. The existing Dongbu Insurance is operating the Risk Management Committee Solvency Margin System measures the insurance/interest rate risk that oversees all risks that affect the company. The committee meets of a company only. But the standards of the RBC System reflect on a quarterly basis but extraordinary meetings may be convened market, credit and operational risk additionally. As of September when necessary. 2011, the RBC ratio of Dongbu Insurance stood at 256.4%, maintaining excellent capital adequacy. Risk Management Administrative Committee Risk Management Administrative Committee: Supporting the Risk Activities for Building Risk Management System I Dongbu Management Committee Flexibly by coping with the rapidly changing Insurance built and is operating a risk management system by financial environment and by devising risk management strategies. improving risk regulations and establishing limits on risks with the aim of building a risk management system. The company regularly Risk Management Department reports the status of risk management to the committees and the An independent risk management department which supports risk management. At present, we are building a companywide risk management work. management governance system and a risk system and an RDW (Risk Data Warehouse). 2011 Sustainability Report Dongbu Insurance Materiality Test Dongbu Insurance conducted IPS Materiality Test ModelTM with the economic effects, regulations and law, expert interviews, stakeholder aim of analyzing main issues and deciding priority and reflecting them surveys, the benchmarking of global advanced companies, and media on sustainability management. The test has been conducted through search. As a result, the company drew 64 issues. Important issues are six steps and classified into three categories (High, Medium and Low). included in the report. By grasping major stakeholder issues regularly The six steps are checking company's policies, direct and indirect and managing them steadily, we will reflect them on our strategies. Sustainability Management (5) Employees (2) ·Management leadership ·Fair remuneration system High ·Strengthen recognition of sustainability ·Employee education and training and selfmanagement development ·Measuring and managing performances of sustainability management Partners (1) ·Accounting transparency ·Partner Communication ·Perfomances of sustainability management Communities (4) Economy (8) ·Local community communication Sustainability Customers (2) ·Financial performances ·Local community support activitieis Management (1) ·Product competitiveness ·Risk management ·Voluntary service activities ·Initiative ·Product liability ·Brand value ·Support for cultural and artistic activities ·Internal process innovation Economy (1) Employees (5) ·New business development Environmental Management (6) ·Financial stability ·Employment equality and job ·Overseas market development ·Efforts for environmental management security ·System innovation ·Evaluation of environmental performances Ethics (4) ·Welfare and benefit system ·Pushing for work efficiency ·Coping with climate change ·Ethical management strategy ·Improving working environment ·Energy efficiency and saving resources ·Ethical management education ·Work-and-life balance Ethics (1) ·Environment protection activities ·Prevention of briberies and ·Support for retirees ·Legal compliance ·Observance of environmental laws and corruption regulations Inner ·Banning discrimination Partners (1) Customers (2) ·Support for partners ·Brand management ·Dealing with customer complaint Sustainability Management (4) Employees (2) Sustainability Management (1) Employees (1) ·Establishing system to push for ·Sound labor-management culture ·Stakeholder participation ·Socially balanced employment sustainability management ·Improving working environment for ·Corporate governance female workers Customers(1) Partners (2) ·Change in corporate structure ·Customer communication ·Win-win growth program for PAs ·Transfer of business site Partners (1) and partners ·Green purchase policies ·Win-win growth program for claims Economy (1) Environmental service networks ·Financial Change Management (5) Customers (2) ·Air quality management Communities (1) ·Observance of consumer-related ·Environmental accounting ·Helping marginalized people such laws and regulations ·Recycling and Reuse as disabled people ·Customer information protection ·Management of waste and waste water ·Purchase and use of eco-friendly products Low Outer High Sustainability Management 24 l 25 Results of Stakeholders’ Participation Interviews with Economic, Social and Environmental Experts Economy (Ryu Youg-jae, CEO of Sustinvest) Suggestion for Sustainability Management I Dongbu Insurance has to steadily push for sustainability management on which characteristics of the insurance industry are fully reflected for its sustainability management. Therefore, sustainability management should be applied to the optimization of risk evaluation, the stabilization of its combined ratio including its loss ratio and others, the introduction of sustainable investment to asset management. To this end, aspects such as the public nature of the industry and long-term reputations of the company should be reflected on customers’ sensitive issues on the foundation of building trust with customers. Moreover, the company is required to make efforts to minimize conflicts between customers and solicitors, reflect results of the ESG (environment, society and corporate governance) and steadily lower the loss ratio from a long-term perspective. Dongbu Insurance’s Position I Dongbu Insurance is moving ahead with sustainability management not only for economic performances but also for the balanced growth of its environmental and social performances. The company is collecting customers’ issues through various VOC channels and reflecting them on its business activities. In the future, we will continue to do everything we can do to secure trust from customers through the perfect establishment of complete sales, the promotion of socially responsible investment and the stabilization of the loss ratio. Society (Lee Won-jae, director of the Hankyoreh Economic Research Institute) Suggestion for Sustainability Management I Dongbu Insurance performed well, becoming one of the best 30 CSR companies in Korea (Korea 30). But the company needs to thoroughly reevaluate management policies on the social sector, processes and reports which cover labor, human rights, equal opportunities and social contributions in the social sector where the company has poor results compared to other sectors. Dongbu Insurance needs to think that environmental and social performances are as important as economic performances for successful sustainability management. Accordingly, the company ought to conduct its activities in partnership with NGOs and social companies in various sectors. I hope the company conduct its activities through more active partnership in order to achieve two items -enhancing the effectiveness of activities while winning trust from stakeholders 2011 Sustainability Report Dongbu Insurance Dongbu Insurance’s Position I Dongbu Insurance was included in the Korea 30 list. But the company will not rest on its laurels. We are implementing a wide array of programs to create great workplaces and operating various social contribution projects such as sponsoring cultural and sports events and donating talent, not to speak of support for estranged people. In addition, we honor the ten principles of the UN Global Compact. In the future, Dongbu Insurance will continue to expand its social contribution activities through a fair and equal human resources management culture and partnership. Environment (Oh Seong-gyu, chairman of Citizens' Movement for Environmental Justice) Suggestion for Sustainability Management I Non-life insurers make up for the weak points in society, Dongbu Insurance has to develop and implement public programs actively. It is necessary for the company to implement management that can cope with rapid changes such as a worldwide economic crisis and frequent disasters amid an environmental crisis and an aging population. Thus, the company should tackle major issues such as climate change, an increase in natural disasters and the awareness of risk in nuclear power generation for successful sustainability management. As society becomes more dangerous due to environmental factors and has more uncertainties with rapid change in people’s awareness, the company needs a system to analyze and deal with the danger and uncertainties. Dongbu Insurance’s Position I Dongbu Insurance is steadily pushing for environmental management activities while recognizing corporate responsibilities on an environmental crisis triggered by climate change. The company is carrying out activities to reduce CO2 emissions internally and develop eco-friendly green financial products and offer environmental consulting. In the future, we will continue to establish advanced environmental governance by building a system to manage companywide systematic environmental performances and supervise environmental risk. Sustainability Management 26 l 27 Results of Stakeholder Survey Dongbu Insurance conducted a survey of its stakeholders on its sustainability management. The 2011 report expanded the scope of the surveyed stakeholders. So they include not only customers and employees but also sales partners and claims service partners. Period: Dec. 19, 2011 ~ Jan. 6, 2012 Category Object Survey Method No. of Questions 126 customers who visited customer service Customers centers. Face-to-face survey 32 Web site survey Employees 1,209 employees of Dongbu Insurance 75 (opening a new web site) Sales Partners 35 sales partners Face-to-face survey 64 Claims Service 66 claims service partners Telephone Survey 42 Partners Sustainable Management I 81.9% positively responded to a question on if Dongbu Insurance will steadily grow. Dongbu Insurance will do everything it can do to realize the balanced growth of its economic, environmental and social results for the purpose of promoting mutual benefits with stakeholders. Question: Dongbu Insurance will steadily grow. Customers Employees Sales Partners Claims Service Partners 2011 78.0% 87.7% 74.3% 87.4% 2009 77.2% 75.2% Management for Customers I 78.6% positively responded to a question on if Dongbu Insurance made efforts to collect opinions through smooth communication with customers and reflected them on its management policies Dongbu Insurance is collecting valuable opinions from customers through various communication channels through various communication channels. In the future, we will continue to our best to improve our work process for customers and develop insurance products by considering customers’ opinions. Question: Dongbu Insurance collects opinions through smooth communication with customers and reflects them on its management policies. Customers Employees Sales Partners Claims Service Partners 2011 77.2% 85.5% 67.2% 84.6% 2009 67.7% 85.1% Management for Environment I 72.1% positively responded to a question on if Dongbu Insurance is an environmental management leader in the insurance industry. In the future, Dongbu Insurance will take the initiative in pushing for environmental management activities to cope with climate change and developing environment-friendly insurance policies to practice green finance. 2011 Sustainability Report Dongbu Insurance Question: Dongbu Insurance is an environmental management leader Question: What does Dongbu Insurance need most to become a in the insurance industry. sustainable company? Claims Service Customers Employees Sales Partners Claims Service Customers Employees Sales Partners Partners Partners 2011 72.6% 79.9% 59.2% 76.8% Customer Employee Customer Satisfaction Satisfaction Satisfaction Ethical 1st 2009 65.2% 68.3% Management Management Management Management Social Customer Social Management’s 2nd Contribution Satisfaction Contribution Leadership Management for Society I 73.5% positively responded to Activities Management Activities a question on if Dongbu Insurance was actively practicing social Management’s Generating Work Win-Win Growth contribution activities. Dongbu Insurance will put its utmost 3rd Leadership Profits Innovation with Partners efforts into fulfilling its corporate social responsibilities by helping Creative and Excellent marginalized people and pushing for social contribution activities. Ethical Innovative Human 4th Creating Profits Management Corporate Resources Question: Dongbu Insurance is actively implementing social Culture Management contribution activities. Creative and Excellent Human Management’s Innovative Claims Service 5th Resources Creating Profits Customers Employees Sales Partners Leadership Corporate Partners Management Culture 2011 73.2% 82.0% 60.8% 78.1% It is judged that a reason why the positive answer rate of sales partners was lower than those of other stakeholders is that the Management for Innovation I 78.3% positively responded to number of sales partners was small and they did not understand the a question on if Dongbu Insurance was striving to grow through new matter well. We will endeavor to make sales partners understand the product research and development. We will not rest on our laurels. sustainability management of Dongbu Insurance by strengthening We will do our best to grow together with our stakeholders through communication activities for them in the future. ceaseless product development and innovation. Question: Dongbu Insurance is striving to grow through new product research and development. Claims Service Customers Employees Sales Partners Partners 2011 74.9% 84.4% 71.0% 82.9% Items for Becoming Sustainable Company I The respondents picked customer satisfaction management, social contribution management, ethical management and the management’s leadership as the most required items for Dongbu Insurance’s becoming a sustainable company. In the future, we will continue to enhance customer value by developing insurance policies on which customers’ opinions were reflected and establishing an insurance sales culture of complete sales and to push for a wide array of social contribution projects for people in need and the development of local communities. Moreover, we will create a transparent and fair corporate culture through ethical management. Sustainability Management 28 l 29 STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT Stakeholders and Communication Channels I Dongbu Insurance’s stakeholders are devided into six groups according to their influence and importance in Dongbu Insurance’s management activities and the development of the Korean insurance industry: customers, shareholders and investors, employees, partners, and communities. The company collects their opinions and ideas through various communication channels. We will create win-win growth with • Stakeholder stakeholders by reflecting them on our management activities. Customers Individuals or groups who buys or will buy products created through • Communication Channels with Stakeholders economic activities Employees s Cu itie A group of people who receive salaries in return for their labor or n sto services as members of Dongbu mu m er Insurance om Social contribution activities· ·Evaluation group consisting s C Sponsoring sports · of consumers ·Customer satisfaction survey by Shareholders and investors external organizations: Individuals and groups that offer KMAC (KCSI), KPC (NCSI), KSA (KS-SQI) ·Internal customer satisfaction survey capital to pursue profits. (DCSI) ·Survey on consumer satisfaction with the Partners handling of complaints Individuals or groups in contract·VOC Management System based relationships with the company in connection with sales and claim work. FSI(Family Satisfaction Index· ·Direct communication with CEO Suggestions from sales organizations· ·Junior Board Communities DBRT seminar· ·Business result briefing (Promy TV) Emplo PRM· ·ESI (Employee Satisfaction Index) The other individuals and groups (Partner Relationship Management) ·Dynamic Leader Conference ners yee that affect the company or are Conferences for excellent partners· Part Promy Car System· affected by the company in the s Meeting with claim partners· latter’s business activities ·IR(Investor Relations) activities ·IR sessions ·Electronic disclosure systems (dart.fss. or.kr) and Dongbu Insurance homepage • Income Distribution by Stakeholder (unit: KRW billion) 2008 2009 2010 Sha s stor Increase in catastrophe reserve 36,721 43,245 51,187 Customers rehol inve Increase in catastrophe reserve 365 377 439 der s an d Shareholders Dividends 380 475 570 Labor costs Employees (salary and benefits) 1,916 1,992 2,410 Expenses for purchasing Partners products and 7,416 8,595 9,642 services, insurance sales commissions Value Creation and Distribution by Stakeholder I Our total income is composed of Communities (donation, Sports and etc.) 85 86 93 earned premiums and investment income. In 2010, total income amounting to KRW6,909.2 Internal reserves 1,935 1,788 2,274 billion was distributed to customers, shareholders, employees, partners and communities. Others (corporate income tax, national tax) 1,619 2,081 2,477 Dongbu Insurance will continue to create and distribute more value through sustainability Total income (Earned premium and investment 50,437 58,639 69,092 management-based growth and development. income) 2011 Sustainability Report Dongbu Insurance Customers Improving Quality of Life Customers 30 l 31 Endeavor of Dongbu Insurance for Customer Satisfaction Customer Satisfaction Management I Dongbu Insurance, passing the five million mark in the number of customers, made new promises in September 2010 for better customer value • Internal Survey Results management. The pledges cover the six moments of truth (MOT) of customer response, insurance (unit: point) 80.0 subscription, customer relations, insurance claim procedure, emergency service and complaint 79.5 79.2 coordination. Dongbu Service Standard 36 is our specific action plan to stick to the promises. Customer Satisfaction Survey Dongbu Insurance has carried out customer satisfaction surveys on a regular basis to assess its services from the viewpoint of its clientele and find out what to improve on. In the Dongbu Customer Satisfaction Index (DCSI) survey of 2010, we scored 80 on a scale of one to 100, climbing 0.5 points 2008 2009 2010 from a year ago and continuing our upward trend. Dongbu Insurance refers to external survey results as well to make its services better. It remained • External Survey Results in the upper ranks in the entire insurance industry of Korea in 2010 by earning 63.0 points (3rd spot) (unit: point) in the Korean Customer Satisfaction Index by the Korea Management Association, 71.0 (2nd ) in the 71 69.6 71 69.6 71 63.9 63 National Customer Satisfaction Index by the Korea Productivity Center and 69.6 (1st ) in the Korean 58.1 54.3 Standard-Service Quality Index (KS-SQI) by the Korea Standards Association. Furthermore, it came in first in the long-term insurance segment of the KS-SQI for two consecutive years from 2009 by consistently refining the quality of its services. Internalization of Customer Satisfaction Management by Employees 2008 2009 2010 Dongbu Insurance is putting great efforts for its executives and staff members to internalize the NCSI : National Customer Satisfaction Index by the Korea Productivity concept of customer service by opening regular CS meetings to give them feedback on their training. KS-SQI : Korean Standard Service Quality Monthly telephone monitoring is in place to check and improve on employee service standards while Index by the Korea Standards Association 97 CS coaches are working in nationwide field offices for ultimate customer satisfaction. KCSI : Korean Customer Satisfaction Index by the Korea Management Association Active Customer Participation • Chart Insurance Plan Idea Dongbu is listening to its customers all the time via the call center and official website at www. Contest idongbu.com so that their valuable opinions can be fully reflected in its day-to-day operations. In this 545 vein, we have held an annual contest in which clients themselves can take part in insurance product development. In 2010, a total of 334 participants brought out their ideas and 25 of them were 369 awarded prizes. 334 We steadily manage ideas not utilized through midto long-term reviews. 56 54 25 2008 2009 2010 Number of Number of Contestants Award Winners ※ The award winners include the recipients of participation or higher prizes 2011 Sustainability Report Dongbu Insurance • Chart Cases of Insurance Plan and Coverage Development through Idea Contest Ideas from Customers Product Development Reflecting the Ideas Effective from How about an insurance product providing funeral •Mutual aid services included in Long-run Life Insurance 2008. 01 services upon the decease of a policyholder’s parent? •Funeral services added to major products •Women’s Story Insurance Plan Developed Career women in their 30s and not married need some 2009. 02 : Offering different insurance plans to married and unmarried women along with additional lifestyle-specific products. babysitting and maternity care services •Wealth Partner Insurance Policy Revised How about an education insurance product meeting (1)Entry age lowered for the expansion of the savings insurance market and new coverage 2009. 10 the various lifestyles of married couples? added for broader indemnification (2)Increased pension plan marketing focusing on the function of child education  •Smart Love Children Insurance Policy Revised (1)Coverage related to dental treatment expanded Payment for dental prosthesis caused by I need insurance to cover my kid’s possible orthodontic car accident, malocclusion treatment and permanent tooth loss treatment, obesity control or metal disease and I’d like (2)New coverage added for psychiatric disorders Compensation for those suffering from a 2011. 02 it to allow an early withdrawal. mental disorder or behavioral disturbance (3)Early withdrawal allowed From a year after a date of policy Within 50% of cancellation repayment Smart Phone Application Development • Smart Zone of Dongbu Dongbu Insurance developed its smart phone application, Smart Zone, in April 2011 to provide more Insurance timely mobile services. With the Smart Zone application, customers in a car accident scene can call for emergency roadside services swiftly and make an accident report with ease. Detailed information and tips on insurance claim are provided in the form of FAQs to increase user convenience and customer satisfaction at the same time. Also, more services like insurance policy reference, income deduction document issuance and application for insurance policy loan are going to be available so that its clients can find no difference between the official website and the mobile application. Communication with Customers I Consumer Review Group Dongbu Insurance has run a consumer review group since April 2010 to better find out customer needs and reflect those in its management plans. The review group is acting as a bridge between Dongbu and • Panel Makeup its clients by suggesting core marketing issues, advising on service quality enhancement and improving Age 30 Age 40 Number of its corporate image. We are feeding back opinions on an improvement in work processes in the sales to 39 to 49 Panelists and claims sectors and quality management through the operation of the group. 16 8 24 • Panel’s Roles Product and Mystery Service Proposal Shopping (discussion (Visiting) session,FGI) Customer Brand Consumer Image Survey Needs Research (Customer (Customer Poll) Poll) Customers 32 l 33 • Activities of Consumer Review Group in 2010 Category Detail Cycle Examination • No. of VOCs (unit: case) 19,031 Branch Office Customer Service Quality Assessment at Branch Monthly Mystery Shopping (Sales & Claim) Offices 13,080 11,265 Customer Consulting Service Quality Assessment at Customer Consulting Monthly Mystery Shopping Center Center Check on Evaluation Items concerning Emergency Emergency Service Monthly Mystery Shopping Services 2008 2009 2010 Customer Service Service Quality Assessment by Visiting Customer Monthly Mystery Shopping Center Service Center Understanding as to Trends and Usage of Financial • Initial Response Rate Financial Instrument Quarterly Face-to-face Survey Instruments (within 2 hours) (unit: %) Discussion and Brainstorming Sessions for Insurance Focus Group 95.0 Product & Service Quarterly 93.4 Plan Development, etc. Interview (FGI) Measures for Elevation of Corporate Image, Ad and Focus Group 88.2 Brand Quarterly Interview (FGI) Brand Awareness Voice of Customer (VOC) We have run the Voice of Customer (VOC) system as well to communicate with our customers more 2008 2009 2010 efficiently and grasp their diverse needs more effectively. VOCs are received through both online and offline channels, including the call center opening around the clock. Upon the receipt of a suggestion, • VOC Handling Satisfaction it goes through an in-depth review and examination to figure out why it has been made and how it Rate (unit: %) can be addressed before improvements are reflected in our daily business activities. In 2010, we were 85.6 87.7 81.3 given 19,031 VOCs in total, which was slightly increased from a year earlier. However, we wasted no time in dealing with the recommendations and raised the VOC satisfaction index to 87.7. Understanding of Customers Each year, the top management and Dynamic Leaders of Dongbu Insurance have a campaign to visit 2008 2009 2010 their clients and better grasp their needs. Through the consistent activities, they have figured out and redressed those work process elements causing customer complaints. • Results of Complaint Management Assessment by FSS Grievance Management and Assessment Thereof I Category 2008 2009 2010 Dispute Review Board for Consumer Satisfaction SecondSecondDongbu Insurance holds a dispute review board meeting on a weekly basis. Departments and Grade Highest highest highest personnel in charge of consumer protection and day-to-day operations participate in the meeting to ※ No property and/or life insurance companies deal with the client grievances that could not be redressed by each of them. In 2010, a total of 1,130 in Korea have won Grade 1 since 2009. cases were handled by the dispute review board. High Ranking in Complaint Management Assessment by FSS Whenever a complaint is filed, the consumer protection and civil affairs departments cope with it in a swift and fair manner through close cooperation. As a result, it has recently obtained Grade 2, which is among the highest, at the Financial Supervisory Service’s assessment on consumer complaint management by financial institutions. Understanding of Customers Acquisition of CCM Certification We have refined every work process element from the viewpoint of clients and improved on our 2011 Sustainability Report Dongbu Insurance management activities for greater consumer rights. The efforts have brought us the much-coveted Consumer Centered Management (CCM) certification authorized by the Fair Trade Commission and managed by the Korea Consumer Agency. •M  onthly Average of Call Services Provided (unit: 1,000 cases) Differentiated Service for Customer Impression I Dongbu Insurance is providing its top1,239 1,298 notch services at a variety of customer contact points, including contract conclusion, maintenance, 1,003 management and benefit payment. Consulting Center Oriented to Customer Needs As of March 2011, Dongbu Insurance is running four around-the-clock customer consulting centers. 2008 2009 2010 The Jeonju Center handles matters related to emergency roadside service, accident report, insurance coverage and so forth and another one in Seoul takes care of contract inquiries and change of policy. The consulting personnel working at home are engaged mainly in monitoring activities. The Wonju • KSQI Consulting Center was established in the first half of 2011 to share their year-round efforts. Satisfaction Index (unit: point) Dongbu Insurance overhauled its call center system in July 2009 for the sake of more efficient and 93.0 well-timed on-site services. Since then, its call center consultants have worked on a flexible hour 92.0 92.0 basis to the same end. In the meantime, the company increased the number of such consultants from 95 to 206 between March 2008 and March 2011. As a result, its consulting satisfaction index climbed one point to 93 in 2010 in spite of the constant increase in the number of consulting requests. Moreover, it won the Leading Call Center in Korea 2008 2009 2010 certification at Korean Service Quality Index (KSQI) 2010 for three years in a row, proving the superiority of its global-standard and customer-oriented call process establishment and management. • e-Services Provided on Customer Proximity Enhancement through e-Service Monthly Average (unit: case) To better meet the needs of its customers, Dongbu Insurance provides various services on its official 417,250 website, too. For instance, they can check or modify their insurance contracts, get information 390,079 on insurance plans and insurance claim and apply for policy loans. In 2010 alone, about 410,000 286,116 cases of e-services were offered and the satisfaction index reached 93.5 points, 1.3 higher than a year earlier. The company will renew its website on an ongoing basis down the road so that timely information can be given and more diverse and convenient services can be provided on it. We will 2008 2009 2010 add e-service items so that many customers can use services through the home page. Systemic Claim Service Dongbu Insurance implements mobile-based claim services so that any of its customers in a car • e-Service Satisfaction accident scene can obtain an indemnity without delay. Our staff can check accident information, send Index (unit: point) relevant pictures, calculate and pay insurance benefits anywhere around the country by means of 93.5 92.0 92.2 their smart handhelds linked to the Promy Phone System, which has boosted their on-site business management capabilities. Further, Dongbu Insurance is running its own multimedia messaging service (MMS) network, improved on the short message service (SMS) in wide use at present, for the same purpose. The system is to exchange not just text messages but also multimedia data like images, sound files, video 2008 2009 2010 footages, etc. Customers 34 l 35 Anti-disaster Service We are running an enterprise-level co-work system to better protect our customers’ physical assets in the event of natural and artificial disasters. A disaster management board is in operation to the same end, cooperating closely with field support teams, rescue workers and authorities concerned. Also, when a disaster warning is issued, we send a message to our clients in a bid to prevent possible damages in advance. • Disaster Response Process Convocation Within three hours Cooperation with Claim Calculation Follow-up to Field of Disaster from outbreak entities concerned and Indemnity Support Team Management Board Evaluation Activities Disaster Field Support Team Claim Follow-up Recognition and On-site Rescue Dispatch Adjustment Backup Services Report Additional Services I We offer different additional services to those in insurance contracts with us. • List of Additional Services Subject Service in Detail •Promy 3·6·9 Service : New Information on insurance plans and services given in the next, third, sixth and ninth months following the conclusion of the first contract Customer •Promy Webzine Service : Healthcare, leisure and everyday living information provided by e-mail •Promy Healthcare Service : Health information offered by direct mail and SMS, before-care service after-care service Long-term •T Promy Service : Car refueling, telecom, parking, vehicle maintenance and repair services Insurance •Discounted package moving and home cleaning services : Safety moving and residence cleaning services at a discounted price Customer •Funeral service •Fund information service : Introduction of affiliated funds for customers with savings insurance products reaching maturity Auto •Autocare Service : 36 sorts of car-related services provided at designated Promy World garages -maintenance inspection, indoor sterilization and Insurance deodorization, towing for repair, reservation for vehicle registration and inspection, maintenance history management, etc. Customer •VIP Membership Service : Promy Healthcare and T Promy VIP Services VIP •Year-end brochure and basketball camp for VIP customers’ children Customer •Specialized services such as risk management, loan interest discount, legal and asset management counseling Quality Assurance Based on Perfect Selling I Dongbu Insurance pursues perfect selling for the ultimate protection of consumer rights. Specifically, it adheres to four insurance sales principles -autograph acquisition and the delivery of policy statements, duplicate application and detailed insurance plan information -so that no disadvantage is incurred on clients’ part. The Perfect Selling Management • Perfect Selling Ratio Board, which is a permanent committee, conducts on-site inspection and phone-based monitoring Movement (unit: %) activities on every single contract for the assurance of high quality standards. Such efforts have raised 96.6 95.4 94.9 its perfect selling ratio to 95.4% in 2010, 0.5 percentage points higher than the previous year. In order to maintain a consummate perfect selling system, Dongbu Insurance imposes strict sanctions on its employees and sales organizations in violation of its perfect selling regulations. The Perfect Selling Management Board suspended the business of 12 organizations and punished 16 executive and staff members in 2010 for the breach of the codes. In 2011, the relevant rules became much tighter so that even a single case of imperfect selling is led to business suspension and disciplinary 2008 2009 2010 action. Dongbu’s efforts to eradicate imperfect selling are still ongoing. 2011 Sustainability Report Dongbu Insurance Customer Relationship Management Customer Information Protection I Enterprise-level Customer Information Committee For customer privacy protection, Dongbu Insurance runs an enterprise-level customer information committee while imposing the duty on the privacy protection officers it names. Also, in order to forestall any privacy leakage, it carries out such different measures as the obligatory acquisition of consent on the collection of personal information, information security agreement with commissioned and affiliated companies, compulsory use of shredders in disposing of documents containing privacy data, limitation on the rights to access customer information and encryption of data in transmission. Dongbu Insurance has never received any penalty from the authorities with regard to the handling of personal information. • Organization for Customer Information Protection General Information Manager Information Customer Personal Management Information Information Head Committee Manager IT Security Manager Officer Role •Responsible for enterprise-level information management and protection in compliance with Credit Information Act, Personal Information Information Management Protection Act, Act on Promotion of Information and Communications Network and other relevant laws Head •Answering for the collection, use, provision, disposal and systematic management of internal and external data and information while controlling the General Information, Personal Information and IT Security Managers Customer Information •Responsible for the enactment and revision of corporate policy regarding information management, inspection on relevant activities, Committee coordination concerning data and information management, establishment of anti-data leak measures General Information Manager •Responsible for the management of printed materials and documents, building and facility security Personal Information Manager •Responsible for the collection, use, provision and disposal of customer information and data IT Security Manager •Responsible for information system operation, anti-system failure efforts and hacking prevention measures Customer Asset Protection I • Pecuniary Amount of Exposed Insurance Fraud Insurance Fraud Prevention Cases (unit: 100 million won) The Special Investigation Unit (SIU) of Dongbu Insurance is engaged in a wide range of activities against 884 insurance fraud. In addition, it implements special measures when it comes to questionable clients so 736 652 that moral risks can be properly controlled from the get go and the other customers’ valuable assets can remain in reliable hands all the time. Meanwhile, Dongbu Insurance came up with the most objective and scientific insurance fraud detection system in September 2011 after a year of development. The system prevents the possibility of any unreasonable payment of insurance proceeds and helps it serve the goal of customer asset protection. 2008 2009 2010 Customers 36 l 37 Establishment of Insurance Crime Prevention Committee In November 2009, Dongbu Insurance established its own insurance crime prevention committee for the purpose of tighter internal control against possible insurance crimes. Chaired by the damage recovery service head, it sets up basic anti-insurance crime policy and punishes those involved in such cases so that the company’s business operations and activities are in complete compliance with relevant laws and regulations. Brand Value Enhancement I Integrated Brand Strategy: Promy Promy is the mascot of Dongbu Insurance and the pivot of the company’s branding strategy. It stands for Dongbu during the course of its overall business and management activities and consistent communication with customers. The name of Promy, derived from the English word of promise, represents Dongbu’s pledge to keep its promise with customers under any circumstances. It has the auto insurance brand Promy Car and long-term insurance brand Promy Life as its sub-brands. Brand Management System Dongbu Insurance has run its own brand performance index to manage its corporate brand more systematically and analyze its awarenessand marketing-side impacts more scientifically. The index is an assessment model with which the outcome of branding and advertising strategies can be measured in a comprehensive manner. Showing customer attitude to Dongbu Insurance and its brand in the form of numerical indices, it is one of the most scientific brand management systems in the property insurance industry of Korea. Brand Awareness Enhancement To maximize the efficiency of contact point-based brand communication, Dongbu Insurance has set new brand and visual identities and applied them to its advertisements, online pages, brochures and so forth in a unified manner. Any member of Dongbu Insurance can check the identities at any time for a systematic management of those while pre-examination processes are helping maintain the consistency of all business materials carrying the brand and visual identities. As a result, at the 2010 nationwide consumer survey by Gallup Korea and Oricom, the company ranked second among the four biggest Korean non-life insurers in terms of sales, which means the second largest number of the respondents recognized Promy ahead of the other companies’ brands. Dongbu Insurance took the second spot in advertising awareness and won the first place for three consecutive years in the advertising preference category. • Brand Evaluation Ranking Category 2008 2009 2010 Initial Brand Awareness 2nd 2nd 2nd Total Brand Awareness 2nd 2nd 2nd Initial Advertising Awareness 1st 1st 3rd Total Advertising Awareness 1st 1st 2nd Advertising Preference 1st 1st 1st 2011 Sustainability Report Dongbu Insurance Employees Balancing Work and Life Employees 38 l 39 Current Status · Employee Capability Enhancement Current Status I As of the end of March 2011, a total of 4,181 • Recruitment for Recent Three Years by local Region (unit: person) employees are working for Dongbu Insurance, including 35 executive Category 2008 2009 2010 and 4,146 regular and temporary staff members. When it comes to Male 27 13 25 professional posts for insurance consulting, medical review and so Female 26 25 23 forth, female employees account for 56.5% of the workforce. Total 53 38 48 We have contributed greatly to job creation by recruiting as many as 822 persons for the most recent three years. In March 2011, we • Number of Retirees and Retirement Rate for Recent Three Years (unit: person, %) established three subsidiaries and gave them the rights to manage Category Male Female Total themselves with a high level of autonomy according to their business 2008 133 (8.1) 54 (7.0) 187 (7.7) characteristics. Like any other insurance companies, we have business 2009 114(6.6) 61(7.5) 175(6.9) extensions and service networks all over the country and the offices 2010 129(7.2) 50(5.9) 179(6.8) have given priority to locals in hiring new and experienced workers. ※ Retirement Rate = Number of Retirees / Year-end Number of Average Employees × 100 When there is a job vacancy, each local office receives letters of recommendation from its employees or conducts job interviews to fill it Workforce Competitiveness Development I Career Development Program (CDP) and then new employees go through a year or two years of probation The purpose of the CDP is to let the people of Dongbu Insurance period before being hired full-time. The retirement rate, which stood at choose their own career targets and refine their business skills 6.8% in 2010, decreased constantly between 2008 and 2010. to meet them through relevant working experience. Under the • Number of Executive and Staff Members (unit: person) recognition that on-site work experience is what matters the most to Category Executive Staff Total that end, we are giving the opportunity first to our front-line workers. Number of Employees 35 4,146 4,181 Between 2008 and 2010, 470 employees benefitted from the CDP. (As of End of March, 2011) Global Manpower Development We nurture those employees having top-notch professional skills • Status by Rank and Sex (unit: person) and expertise and capable of overseas business operations into General Assistant Professional and Category Manager / Deputy Manager Manager / Insurance Total our source of global competitiveness. Any employee of Dongbu General Manager Rank and File Consulting Male 409 493 872 43 1,817 Insurance can apply for the in-house contest and screening to Female 4 21 1,052 1,287 2,364 become a part of it. As of March 2011, 71 persons are training Total 413 514 1,924 1,330 4,181 themselves with the program. Job Competency Development • Status by Region (unit: person) We train our new recruits to have wide yet specialized work Capital Gangwon Chungche Yeongnam Honam overseas Category Region Region ong Region Region Region Region Total experience through T-shaped career development. Existing Male 1,328 11 97 265 97 19 1,817 employees, in the meantime, can choose from various career Female 1,506 51 152 472 183 0 2,364 development options to become a specialist and generalist at the Total 2,834 62 249 737 280 19 4,181 same time. We call this T-type career path management, which pursues specialty and universality at the same time. • Recruitment for Recent Three Years (unit: person) New HRD Scheme Recent College Experienced Category Female Clerk Total Graduates Workers We have further strengthened our pursuit of management innovation 2008 112 41 163 316 and reform since 2004 by starting the New Human Resources 2009 72 19 114 205 Development (HRD) Scheme. It can be characterized as a self-driven 2010 129 31 141 301 personnel training method, in which the company takes the role of Total 313 91 418 822 career development assistant and guarantees flexible job rotation so 2011 Sustainability Report Dongbu Insurance • Outcome of New HRD Scheme (unit: person, group, paper) • Status of Participation in Innovation Academy (unit: person) Category 2008 2009 2010 Year 2008 2009 2010 Total Certificate Acquirers 4,318 3,209 3,806 Freshman 63 55 42 160 Study Groups 270 512 539 Sophomore 57 48 38 143 Journals Published In-house 55 38 29 Junior 50 61 32 143 • Number of Insurance Business Licenses Acquired and Senior 61 47 47 155 Ratio of License Owners (unit: license, %) Total 231 211 159 601 Category 2008 2009 2010 Number of LicensesStudy 407 454 497 • Marketing Academy Percentage 16.4 17.7 19.1 The Marketing Academy is to select outstanding sales partners, ※ The insurance business licenses include both domestic and foreign ones, including female workers and new employees and give them an opportunity to Chartered Property Casualty Underwriter (CPCU), Associate in Reinsurance (ARe), actuary and loss adjuster. As of 2010, Dongbu Insurance is second to none in the lead their own departments so that they can better share Dongbu’s domestic industry in terms of the percentage. growth visions. It focuses on existing field sales managers’ marketing • Staff Education Status for Recent Three Years competence enhancement and a timely assignment of fresh yet well(unit: hour, million won) trained personnel who are ready to melt into the sales and corporate Category 2008 2009 2010 culture of Dongbu Insurance. Total Teaching Hours 480,590 474,034 441,592 Until March 2011, 180 members were given the position of branch Per-capita Hours 123.4 112.5 105.6 head through the MA course. Total Teaching Expenses 4,215 3,965 4,942 Covered by • Status of Completion of MA Course (unit: person) Employment Insurance 680 466 801 Year 2008 2009 2010 Total Per-capita Expenses 1.7 0.9 1.2 Number of MA Graduates 81 61 38 180 ※ Per-capita Teaching Hours = Total Teaching Hours ÷ Number of Regular and Temporary Employees • Actuary Academy that the beneficiaries can accumulate on-site experience in a variety The Actuary Academy is to enhance the expertise of those in of fields. charge of actuarial duties and provide them with all-round actuarial knowledge and skills. In-house Academies • Status of Completion of Actuary Academy Course Dongbu Insurance is running three in-house academy courses so (unit: person) that its employees can be armed with professional knowledge. Year 2008 2009 2010 Total Number of AA Graduates 105 50 25 180 • Innovation Academy The goal of the four-year Innovation Academy is to foster management innovation as an innate part of Dongbu’s corporate culture and inculcate its employees, each of whom are supposed to take the role of an innovation leader, with an innovative mindset and motivation. By completing the well-organized curriculum, any member of Dongbu Insurance can better grasp its direction of enterprise innovation and get themselves the capabilities to spearhead their day-to-day projects. For three years starting from March 2008, 601 employees enrolled the course and 155 of them finished it successfully. Graduation ceremony of Innovation Academy Employees 40 l 41 Principle of Equal Opportunity · Creating Great Work Place Respect for Diversity of Employees I Compensation Scheme I Our employees’ salary is divided into Employment of Disabled Persons base pay, merit pay and incentive. Data on the wages of new recruits are Regardless of the degree of disability, Dongbu Insurance guarantees made public on domestic job information websites. Annual salaries differ any person a chance to work free from job discrimination so long as reasonably, depending solely on their ranks and duties and not on sex. they have the motivation and abilities to get their job done. Physically • Average Annual Salary (unit: KRW1,000) challenged employees of Dongbu Insurance can avail themselves of Category 2008 2009 2010 the company parking lot 100% free of charge. Male Employees 59,050 61,350 64,702 • Status of Employment of Disabled Persons Female Employees 30,258 29,376 27,851 (Accumulated Basis) (unit: person) Total 49,703 45,183 43,690 Year 2008 2009 2010 Note 1) T he average decreased in 2009 due to the employment of more new female Number of Disabled Employees 36 40 45 workers than usual. The sum of 2010 includes the salaries of those door-to-door insurance agents working on a piecework basis after receiving a fixed pay for two years. (Minimum legal wage: KRW11,640,000) Note 2) The female employees include those newly hired after graduating from a junior college. Recruitment of and Career Development Assistance for Female Workers We have created a lot of jobs requiring female workers so that women Creating Great Work Place I Dongbu Insurance is implementing various programs to help employees enjoy working with a strong in Korea can take a bigger role in the national economy while achieving sense of pride on the basis of trust in the company by introducing self realization. A case in point is the customer service center recently the Great Work Place (GWP) Concept which pursue employee established in Jeonju City, North Jeolla Province to hire 245 local women. satisfaction and the sustainable growth of the company under the Another customer center had been opened in July 2011 in Wonju City, vision of “Good Work Place Where We Can Realize Our Dreams and Gangwon Province and 97 female employees are working there at present. Vision.” In particular, the company opened GWP Plaza, an internal At the same time, we have suggested new visions and opportunities GWP sharing site in 2009. On the web site, employees share a wide for their career development while promising them a high level of job array of GWP activities through “GWP of Our Department,” “Sympathy stability. Anyone showing outstanding performance is given a chance Café,” and “GWP Program.” of promotion without any discrimination and can get herself the title of senior manager in our fair personnel management system. • Great Work Place In addition, a well-established telecommuting system is in place to better cope with the difficulties of those feeling constrained to quit for childbearing and rearing and so on. As of the end of March 2011, no less than 251 of our employees are working at home. Fair Performance Evaluation I Dongbu Insurance carries out transparent and impartial performance evaluation each month based on its performance management system adopting the method of Balanced Score Card (BSC). Feedback of the review is returned to each of its members so that they can be more motivated for their jobs with no doubt at all remaining about the fairness of the assessment. Also, they are completely free to raise objections to their personal competence and performance assessment results. In that case, Employee Welfare and Benefits I Retirement Pension Scheme the personnel committee collects opinions from evaluators and Dongbu Insurance switched to a defined benefit (DB) pension plan. departments in charge to decide whether to correct the results or not. The funds are being managed by Korea Investment & Securities, This process has done much to raise employees’ understanding of Kookmin Bank and Dongbu Life Insurance, Hana Bank, the National and satisfaction with evaluation criteria. In 2010, employees filed 37 Federation of Fisheries Cooperatives, Tong Yang Securities and etc. objections. Out of the 37 objections, 14 were adjusted. 2011 Sustainability Report Dongbu Insurance We observe a legal standard that stipulate the provision of over one Communication with Employees I month's wage in severance pay to individuals who have worked for Meetings with CEO the company for one year. The CEO of Dongbu Insurance actively participates in communication events, “Call CEO” or “Yes Meeting” once a month. Dongbu Selective Welfare and Benefit System Insurance promotes internal horizontal communication and creates Dongbu Insurance is pulling out all the stops to enhance employee opportunities for communication between the management and satisfaction by introducing and implementing the Selective Welfare employees. Such meetings have been held once a month since July and Benefit System which lets employees select welfare items and 2010. The CEO met 718 employees by taking part in such events levels of benefits on their own within welfare budgets. During the past for a total of 17 times. The company improved the employee welfare three years, we spent a total of KRW85.4 billion including KRW30.9 and benefit system such as the establishment of a company house billion for the year 2010. support system and the Family Day. • Annual Welfare Spending (unit: KRW billion) 2008 2009 2010 Activation of Internal Communication 26.9 27.6 30.9 Dongbu Insurance built and is operating various communication channels and making endeavors to create a harmonious corporate Other Welfare and Benefit Systems culture through strong communication between the company and employees, the management and employees and among employees. Details • Major Communication Programs Giving scholarships to employees for their graduate Scholarships school programs and their children Category Details Results Company Houses Providing company houses and supplementary living and Supplementary allowances to those who do not have their families or Monthly In-house broadcast on business Held on first day Living Allowances relatives. Management performances and progress for employees of every month Briefing Loans for Buying or Giving financial support to employees who need to Renting Houses buy or rent houses. Dongbu Program in which all employees are (257 issues in Rest Homes for Operating free rest homes for summer for employees Open encouraged to participate and decide on 2008~2010) Summer and their families Meeting main company policies (45,525 • Meeting with the CEO Program to collect employee opinions suggestions I did not take part in the meeting with Suggestion on management activities and ways to collected from the CEO. But I think that the participants improve working environment 2008 through enjoyed their meeting with the CEO. I believe 2010) that both sides know each other more and Electronic newsletter which acts as open better through the meeting. Someday, if I e-Promy communication channel among employees am given a chance, I will have a nice dinner Plaza (includes sales organization) with stake and wine with the CEO. No. of visits: By Lee Hyeon-sook nfrastructure through which all employees 30,069 times If every participant enjoyed the meeting with me, I cannot ask for more as GWP Plaza can share and benchmark various GWP in 2009 and CEO. I am happy to hear that the participants really enjoyed the time with programs by departments 190,958 times me. I may have said something a little boring to them. Once again I send in 2010 words of thanks to workers of our call centers for their hard work to meet Meeting between the management our customers earlier than any other employees. I wish that Dongbu CNS Dynamic and representatives of employees by Held in April, established in the new spring will grow into a leading customer serviceLeader departments (Suggestions are actively 2011 specialized company. Dynamic Dongbu!!! Conference reflected on corporate policies). By Kim Jeong-nam I am very grateful to CEO Kim for making me unforgettable memories during my service at the customer service center. In addition, it was very nice to meet the CEO-designate of Dongbu CNS. We had a fun time while taking part in recreation activities and having dinner. Let’s work hard to make our company better. Let’s go! By Lim Hwa-yeong Employees 42 l 43 Dynamic Dongbu Employee Course • Returning Rates of Employees after Three-YearLong Childcare Leaves (unit: person, %) understanding the history of the company, rediscovering and Category 2008 2009 2010 Total establishing the core value of Dongbu Insurance with an eye towards Female employees 33 52 52 137 expanding trust among employees through communication activities No. of returnees 29 42 52 123 among employees. Returning rates 87.9 80.8 100 89.8 Mentoring System Male employees 1 1 Dongbu Insurance is implementing a mentoring system to help No. of returnees 1 1 employees adapt themselves to the corporate culture and their work Returning rates 100% 100% by transferring experiences or knowledge or counseling. ※ In principle, all employees who take childcare leaves should return except for personal reasons. The company is putting its utmost efforts into helping returnees adapt themselves to the company after the leaves such as having meetings before giving them Club Activities orders to return to their work. Executives take the initiative and set an example for other employees • Family-Friendly Management Programs by creating, advising and supporting an in-house club of their choice Program Details in accordance with the company’s “One-Club-for-One-Executive” Award, holiday, holiday expenses are provided to long-service Refresh Holiday policy. As of March 2011, a total of 21 clubs (581 members) in leisure employees (Every 5 years after 10th year of employment) and sports, travel, culture and arts, and learning were registered. The Childbirth Provides congratulatory bonus (KRW200,000) to promote Congratulatory birthrate company gives financial support to the clubs. System -P rovides KRW1 million on birth of 3rd child since July 2009 Sponsoring Provides all educational fees and preferential hiring to Program for surviving children (including those born after their fathers’ Surviving death) of employees who work for Dongbu for three or Dependents more years. Holiday for A half-day paid vacation is provided to employees on their Spouses’ spouses’ birthdays. Birthdays A summer camp for employees' children (elementary/ Dongbu Family middle school) at the Dongbu Insurance Academy offering Summer Camp English and science classes A fetus diagnosis leave system has been managed for the Fetus Diagnosis health of female workers and their babies since July 2009. Leave -Fetus diagnosis leaves over the past 3 years: 166 leaves in 2009 and 350 leaves in 2010 Congratulatory Dynamic Leader Conference Party for Congratulatory party is held for employees promoted to Promoted assistant managers and their families Employees Enhancing Employee Satisfaction I C.C.E. Program Building Family-Friendly Culture The C.C.E. (Creativity, Communication, Empathy) program has Dongbu insurance is expanding a flexible working system to promoted a culture of getting results through innovation and prompt create work-life balance such as designating every Wednesday as employees to display their creativity on the basis of communication the Family Day. The company is creating a family-friendly culture between the company and employees and communication among by running specialized programs such as celebrating childbirth, employees since 2009. refreshing time for long-time workers, holidays for spouses’ birthdays • C.C.E. Program Highlights and fetus diagnosis leaves. In particular, female employees are able Category 2009 2010 to apply for childcare leaves of their free will. Beginning in 2011, the Number of Times 16 15 company allows childcare leaves to employees who have worked Participants 2,453 2,079 Music, art, psychology, classical IT, psychology, health, classical for the company for less than one year for more active support for music, music, advertisements, musicals Main Programs culture and health and movies childcare. 2011 Sustainability Report Dongbu Insurance Employee Satisfaction Survey Labor Practices We conduct an ESI (Employee Satisfaction Index) survey once a year to understand workers' morale and enhance their satisfaction level by pursuing company-wide systematic improvement. The ESI continued Freedom of Association I With the aim of building laborto rise for the past three years, reaching 75.6 points in 2010. management partnership on the basis of trust and cooperation, Dongbu Insurance is operating various types of communication • ESI Trends (Unit: points) channels. These efforts paid off. Dongbu Insurance has not 2008 2009 2010 experienced any labor disputes since 1994 (Dongbu's industrial 73.1 74.1 75.6 accident rate 2008: 0.12%, 2009: 0.03%, 2010: 0.02%). As of As a result of its consistent GWP efforts, Dongbu Insurance was selected November 2011, 93% of all employees are covered by collective as GWP Korea in 2009 and 2010 by ELTech Trust Management Institute, bargaining agreements. the partner company of Great Place to Work Institute. Dongbu Insurance guarantees the three labor rights of employees and conforms to all relevant laws and group agreements. In Disease Prevention and Health Promotion Program accordance to labor-related laws, we abide by regulations regarding Dongbu Insurance developed various health promotion policies and maternity leave and childcare leave. Moreover, employees are given programs to offer a healthy working environment to employees. In equal opportunities depending on their ability and performances. September 2009, the company put forth efforts for good health of employees by installing a thermal image camera and a TV monitor Notice of Major Operational Changes I The top management at the head office from the Risk Management Research Institute and and executives of the company provide latest information on overall operating an automatic medical inspection system to monitor body management issues to employees through monthly announcements temperatures of employees to diagnose the swine flu. In addition, on operating performances and business status telecasted we are preparing for health risk such as offering a massage care companywide. The corporate intranet, we notice major operational program for customer-contact employees and conducting research on changes such as HR and employee welfare issues to employees elements causing muscular-skeletal diseases in employees. beforehand and listen to employees' opinions on the matters. • Disease Prevention and Health Promotion Programs Program Details Employees health checkup Annual health checkup for all employees and their spouses Health fund Company-wide non-smoking and diet programs promote employee health (Non-smoking fund and diet fund) *Participants: 209 in 2008, 255 in 2009 and 287 in 2010 (success dividends and bonuses are offered to successful participants) Counseling Expert counseling for employees and family members (partnership with Korea Counseling Center) Disease response system Preventive measure guidelines, checks, treatment and sick leave are provided for infectious diseases (acute hepatitis A, influenza A, etc) Employee group accident insurance Provides coverage of accident and disease related medical costs for all employees and family members (spouse and children ) Holds seminars on common diseases and preventive measures for employees at customer centers ( 964 employees took part Health information seminar in four seminars in FY’10.) Employees 44 l 45 Respect for Human Rights and Operation of Employees’ Grievance Settlement System Dongbu Insurance is operating an employee counseling system and an Ban on Discrimination in order to help employees to work better and have better lives at home. In 2010, we settled 18 employees’ grievances through the Respect for Human Rights I Dongbu Insurance conforms to employees’ grievance settlement system. Korean Labor Standard Laws and ILO regulations on forced labor and • Cases Solved by Official child labor. There have been no cases of child labor or forced labor. 29 Grievance Settlement System (unit: case) Education on Human Rights 18 Dongbu Insurance conducts annual online educational courses for all 15 ※ These cases are all grievance employees on preventing sexual violence and harassment within the settlement cases in overall personnel management such as workplace. Any department can make use of video materials on the personal transfers and sexual intranett at all times to educate employees. harassment. 2008 2009 2010 Concrete examples of sexual harassment are provided to serve as guidelines and raise awareness among employees about violating Ban on Discrimination I Although there are rational differences human rights within the company. in employees’ positions, responsibilities and roles, there is no wage Furthermore, the security personnel stationed at the head office and other discrimination against social statuses and types of labor receive human right education once a week on average (four times contracts. In addition, the company is banning any discrimination a month) for emergency evacuation measures, customer greeting on the basis of races, genders, ages, religions, nationalities and skills and customer service to protect customers and employees and disabilities in compliance with recruitment regulations. Moreover, the make workplaces safer. company actively turned irregular workers into regular workers before the enforcement of the Temporary Worker Act. During the reporting period, we transformed a total of 248 irregular employees into regular employees in an effort to offer fair job opportunities. Settle grievances in personnel management sector such as friction with Hot Line • Conversion to Regular Employee Status (unit: person) bosses, colleagues, sexual harassment and promotions Category 2008 2009 2010 Total Converted workers 127 51 70 248 Conversion ratio 100% 100% 100% 100% Counseling on work and families by Psychological specialized counselors (psychological Counseling doctors) of the Korea Counseling Center Legal counseling on buying and renting Legal houses and personal matters by company Counseling lawyers 2011 Sustainability Report Dongbu Insurance Partners Creating Success Together Partners 46 l 47 Win-Win Growth with Sales Partners Sales Partners I In line with the growth of Dongbu Insurance, our sales partners are increasingly becoming more diverse. In particular, in 2010, all channels steadily grew so the total number of sales partners reached 32,149. Including the number of employees of agents, the entire sales organization of the company hired almost 100,000 people. Like this, the area and number of sales partners have been rapidly expanding. Sales partners are largely divided into two groups of exclusive sales channels (exclusive solicitors and agents) which are called Prime Agents (PA) and non-exclusive channels mainly consisting of cross-selling solicitors and non-exclusive agents. Solicitors Agents GA(General Agency) Cross-selling solicitors (unit: person) 2010 14,129 5,411 1,881 10,638 Sales Partners 2009 12,545 5,684 1,738 10,835 2008 11,564 5,839 1,464 10,203 PA Communication I PA Satisfaction Survey We conduct an annual PA (Prime Agent) satisfaction survey called Family Satisfaction Index (FSI). The survey is conducted on ten areas such as overall satisfaction levels, working environments, the company’s products, sales support, and training. The overall satisfaction level has steadily risen over the past three years, reaching 62.0 points in 2010. 2008 2009 2010 (unit: points) 69.9 69.8 69.6 61.7 62.0 63.7 63.0 63.9 61.3 PA 58.4 58.1 57.5 Satisfaction Survey • PA Suggestion (unit: case) 2,181 2,099 FSI(Family Company Job satisfaction Income Satisfaction Index) satisfaction index index satisfaction index 1,557 PA Suggestion System Dongbu Insurance has operated a PA suggestion system for the purpose of invigorating communication with PAs. Suggestions that we adopted are added to our overall policies and 2008 2009 2010 systems. The company adopted 472 out of PAs’ 2,099 suggestions in 2009 and 385 out of 1,557 suggestions in 2010. 2011 Sustainability Report Dongbu Insurance Program to Improve PA Loyalty I Differentiated Commission System Our commission system offers diverse and no-ceiling structures to enable the unlimited growth of PAs. Dongbu is currently building a commission support system for the stable grounding of new recruit subsidies and settlement support commission. We are also maintaining a performancebased commission system commensurate to partners’ abilities and performance to provide greater motivation. Providing Systematic Education Programs We offer systematic educational programs such as consulting capability development to PAs in order to expand their capabilities. To this end, we have spent more than KRW7.5 billion on educating and training about 170,000 PAs over the past three years. • Education and Training Category 2008 2009 2010 No. of courses 45 47 42 No. of trainees 55,065 51,915 64,397 Education expenses (KRW million) 2,064 2,712 2,732 • PA Education System Theme Self Stages Goals by stages Basic Road Map Theme Course Course Learning DBRT Top Consultant 5. DBRT Seminar Competency DBRT 4. Pre-DBRT Challenger T P 3. PA Academy h A PAs who VIP Marketing worked for Financial Academy e more than Claim Academy Specializm K 4 years Financial ation e n Consulting o Course PAs who C w 2. F  inancial Consulting worked for 2 o l Course to 3 years u e Risk Consulting r d Knowledge 1. BASIC Certification s g PAs who -Vision(12th Month) Seminar e e worked for Risk Management Level-up(4th Month) Exellent less than 1 years FTC(2th~4th Month) Rockie BTC(1st Month) Corurse (7th Months) Partners 48 l 49 Innovation Program to Upgrade PA Activities Dongbu Insurance solved problems of business groups and strengthened their execution power • PK Certification Holders through the Sales Consulting Program for advancing PA activities. Through this, we help sales (Cumulative basis) (unit: person) partners have stronger sales competitiveness and increase their income. At present, a total of 13,744 26 business groups are taking part in the program. Thanks to an improvement in business group management systems and the enhancement of coaching capabilities of heads of branches, the 10,376 number of PAs with monthly incomes over KRW3 million has noticeably increased. 7,848 PA Knowledge Certification Program We instituted a “PA Knowledge (PK) certification program” which offers sales organizations to 2008 2009 2010 enhance their business knowledge competitiveness. As of the end of 2010, 13,744 PAs acquired PK certificates. In addition, PAs are sharing knowledge and business know-how through Knowledge Sharing Place in the sales portal. IT-based Advanced PA Sales System Dongbu Insurance utilizes a business-oriented system as its next-generation system. The company has a high-tech, web-based system that supports sales activities by allowing PAs to access the system any time and from anywhere. We enable efficient and quick sales processing by providing an advanced mobile-based sales system. We make PA activity management efficient and reinforce their competitiveness by operating self targets, sales offices which allow PAs to plan on their own and support PAs’ sharing cases of operation and excellent targeting in consideration of characteristics of regions and sites. In addition, we are advancing the PA Automation System such as supporting sales processes by providing the e-Contact System for differentiated marketing. • PA Automation System Building industry-leading sales portal and realizing RTE(RealUpgrading Time Enterprise) Sales Portal Realizing advanced activity Coverage Distributing process via total risk analysis Analysis & Mobile On-site, one-stop processing consulting Design Modems System Realizing Companywide Mobile Office Synergies through PA Automation Building mobile sales Retirement Increasing Providing simple retirement infrastructure Building mobile Planning Distribution On-site printing of policy planning service via customer claim system Program of Portable contract Life Time Value (LTV) analysis Improving company-wide office Printers environment Created venue for PAs to Knowledge PMS Sales activities via mobile share knowhow sharing and Sharing System phone information 2011 Sustainability Report Dongbu Insurance 동부화재 Dongbu Round Table (DBRT) Hall of Fame Every year, Dongbu Insurance gives prizes to excellent PAs to encourage them to have more pride in their work. We operate a ‘DBRT Hall of Fame’ program to give recognition to PAs who have contributed to our growth and promote exemplary activities. • Annual Prizewinners (unit : person) Category Total Main Prizes Rookie Prizes Sales King DBRT 2008 285 123 35 2 125 Annual Awards Ceremony 2009 446 209 28 2 207 2010 403 190 23 2 188 Win-win Programs for Non-exclusive Channel Partners I GA-Only Consulting Center Dongbu Insurance is running a GA-only consulting center to support employees of GAs. We provide services such as design of and consulting on auto, long-term and commercial insurance through the consulting center. Building System for GAs Dongbu Insurance enabled GAs to design insurance products of the company and handle work of the company more conveniently by building the GA-Only Portal System in November 2009. Representatives of GAs were able to manage sales and incomes of their employees through this system. Moreover, we developed the GTMS(GA Tele Marketing System) to help sell TM products in December 2010. Support Program to Boost Incomes of Partners Dongbu Insurance operates a commission system that is differentiated by performance levels. For GAs with exemplary management efficiency indices such as retention rate and collection rate, we provide separate performance-based commissions. Moreover, 141 GA trainers offer education and overall support to non-exclusive channels including GAs across the nation. They also help employees • GA Long-Term Premium of GAs reinforce their sales capabilities by holding classes on insurance products and marketing (unit : KRW million) methods for them every month. 3,304 2,778 1,653 2008 2009 2010 ※ Sales of long-term insurance temporarily increased due to a decrease in the coverage of medical reimbursement insurance in 2009. Annual sales are on a steady rise when considering sales in July 2009. GA Portal Screen GTMS Screen Partners 50 l 51 Meeting for Win-Win Growth GA seminars are held every quarter to promote win-win partnership with GAs. In particular, we strengthen loyalty for sales partners by holding DHC (Dongbu Honors Club) for excellent GAs. Support Program for Cross-selling Partners Dongbu Insurance is pushing for the establishment of a cross-selling call center, a cross-selling team leader system and the expansion of cross-selling branches following the introduction of crossmarketing between non-life and life insurance sectors in August 2008. In addition, we are expanding infrastructure to increase income of cross-selling partners through the development of differentiated products. • Supporting System for Cross-selling Partners One-Stop Service for Life and Non-life Insurance Expanding Sales Sector, Increasing Income by Securing New Markets and Customers Life Insurance Area Planning against Customers’ Risk and Saving Exclusive Variable, Call Center Whole Life, CI, Annuity, Saving, Disease and Accident Cross-selling Head of Partners Cross-selling Cross-selling Commissions Branch Commissions Commissions Commissions Team for Fire and for Auto for Medical for Other Commercial Reimbursement Insurance Insurance Insurance Insurance Sales Sales Sales Sales Non Insurance Medical Can Provide Life Insurance Area Planning + Reimbursement = Service against Insurance Plannng Integrated Risk PA Ethical Management Program I While understanding that strong ethical awareness is indispensible to steady mutual growth with the best sales forces in the industry, Dongbu Insurance is endeavoring to prevent insincere business activities including insurance crimes through various organizations such as the consumer protection part and the SIU part. In particular, the company has prepared and is executing additional strong punishment standards on unfinished complete sales and moral risk-related insurance accidents by PAs and sales managers. In addition, each of our sales partners is required to submit a signed oath to abide by ethical and legal standards to have strong ethical awareness. 2011 Sustainability Report Dongbu Insurance Win-Win Growth with Claims Service Partners Current Status of Claims Service Partners I Dongbu Insurance is providing medical and auto maintenance services through hospital and auto maintenance factories across the nation. • Claims Service Partners Its national Promy Network provides quick customer services at sites. We also maintain strong Category No. of partners partnership with claim adjustment companies to manage claims more accurately. Medical/ Hospital 10,274 Repair Service Maintenance center 3,619 Emergency dispatch firm 584 Mutual Growth Programs for Claims Service Partners I Promy Network On-site dispatch company 518 Support for Exemplary Hospitals and Maintenance Centers Long-term Dongbu manages and supports a select number of hospitals and auto maintenance centers that insurance claims 18 Investi adjuster and surveyor have superior records of managing claims and high customer trust levels. Through this, the company -gation Commercial insurance claims adjuster and 33 is able to offer excellent medical and maintenance services while hospitals and auto maintenance surveyor centers can secure their customers. In addition, we are steadily expanding support for excellent exemplary hospitals and maintenance centers. • Operation of Exemplary Dongbu Insurance has lowered the adjustment of examination costs by expanding exemplary hospitals Hospitals No. of Exemplary Hospitals and pushing for education and cooperation activities for exemplary hospitals by regions since 2009. (unit: case) 55 55 We are pushing for having 40% of all repair cases done at exemplary maintenance centers by increasing the number of exemplary maintenance centers a good deal and improving a customer 45 guidance process in an early stage of an accident. Building Support System through Promy Car System 2008 2009 2010 Dongbu Insurance is having emergency dispatches, calls for dispatches, designation of dispatch firms, Adjustment Rate of Medical Cost at Exemplary Hospitals (unit: %) dispatch progress and results of dispatches shared in real time through the web-based Promy Car System 4.4 The system additionally realize a maintenance system, offers an environment for systematic work and 3.9 3.7 profit management and enhanced the convenience of education and effects of education through a cyber education support system. • Promy Car System 2008 2009 2010 My Promy Service Management •Employee and •Real-time control and equipment management process • Exemplary Maintenance management •Service operation Centers •Service performance process management No. of Exemplary Maintenance Centers (unit: case) 750 746 678 Customer Management Promy Plaza •Customized service •Information plaza to share information •Conneted to home page •Educational system for 2008 2009 2010 reinforcing capabilties of network Support for Warehousing at •Group buying is possible Exemplary Claims Service Partners (unit :%) 39.6 40.2 38.5 Maintenance Management Manager •Network-customized maintenance program •Managing designated claims service partners •Update of real-time maintenance information •Performance evaluation system •Accounting management function •Support for commission statistics 2008 2009 2010 Partners 52 l 53 Advancing Collaboration System through System The web-based online network Partner Relationship Management (PRM) system was developed in January 2010 and is used to improve two-way operational efficiency with a focus on real-time communication functions. • Main Functions •Real-time claim, payment and agreement functions •File accident, enter accident investigation management results Convenience/Speed •Delivery of related documents and photos •Two-way, real-time messenger service •Provides background, performance of company Improved Participation •Informs schedule and key announcements • PRM System Communication with Claims Service Partners I Communication with Hospitals and Maintenance Centers Objects Cycle Details Exemplary hospitals ·Managed by heads of local claim centers At any time and maintenance ·Sharing problems in work processes and discuss ways to solve them (3 to 5 times a year) service centers ·Managing claims and sharing joint customer service activity plans Communication with Promy Network Type Cycle Details On-the-spot ·Discussing plans to manage collaboration system with claim Once a month education service partners Education When Group ·Sharing future direction of commission management system and necessary(once or education performance management twice a year) Once a year ·Sharing excellent win-win partnership cases Conference Conference for Partners ·Activities to promote partnership spirit 2011 Sustainability Report Dongbu Insurance Communication with Claim Adjustment Firms Dongbu Insurance made progress and processes through a system shared by showing screens needed for work of claims adjustment firms such as service request statuses and statements on an e-claim system used by claims employees. In addition, the company carries out education programs, workshops and meetings for claims employees and employees of claim adjustment firms for the enhancement of capabilities of claim adjustment firms and smooth communication with them. • Employee Education over the Past 3 Years Category Objects Cycle Details Executives and ·Sharing performances by claim adjustment firms and Meeting managers Once a month deliberation matters When necessary ·Sharing difficulties in claim adjustment and Workshop Team leaders (3 to 5 times a suggestions year) ·Sharing BPs and failure cases of claim adjustment. ·Specialized guest lecturers’ education on methods Education Team leaders Team leaders on moral accidents and at sites and provisional attachment of claims Social Responsibilities through Claims Service Partners I Insurance Crime Prevention Activities Dongbu Insurance and claims service partners jointly pursue activities to prevent insurance-related crimes, Additionally, we are continuing to implement socially responsible activities such as preventing insurance-related crimes by maintaining strict watch over delinquent partners. • Reward System for Reports of Insurance-related Crimes Dongbu Insurance offers rewards in accordance to disclosed figures when reports are made on insurance fraud schemes. In 2010, we recorded 35 internal reports and nine external reports and paid KRW11.2 million in rewards. Reward for Reporting Reporting Insurance Frauds Insurance related Crimes ·PRM System of Partners ·Reward for disclosed figure x (recovered figure ratio + ·Home Page of Dongbu Insurance contribution to exposure) ·Home Page of Promy Network ·Reward : Min. KRW200,000 to max. KRW10 million Disclosed amount Ceiling amount Home Page of Dongbu Insurance KRW300 million or more KRW10 million Anyone can report insurance frauds, KRW5 million to KRW300 million to KRW100 million inappropriate sales activities, financial KRW7 million accidents and wrongdoings KRW100 million to KRW30 million KRW2 million to KRW3 million GO KRW0.5 million KRW30 million to KRW5 million to~KRW1 million Less than KRW5 million KRW0.3 million to Partners 54 l 55 Special Management Delinquent Partners We are operating a system to manage and share data on delinquent partners by interworking with the e-Claim System for the systematic management of partners which undermine proper functions of insurance by reporting fake or inflated repair charges and causing moral risk accidents. Managing business records with partners ·Saving delinquent cases Hospital management types ·Offering classification • No. and Value of Exposed Moral Risks at Delinquent Partners (unit: KRW100 million won) 82 Case 4.7 239 Case 2008 9.4 2009 2010 153 Case 7.8 2011 Sustainability Report Dongbu Insurance Social Responsibilities Getting People Closer Together Social Responsibilities 56 l 57 SOCIAL CONTRIBUTION ACTIVITIES Social Contribution Overview I Dongbu Insurance pursues accident prevention campaign with the aim of establishing a righteous social contribution activities befitting the spirit of non-life insurance traffic culture. We share our accumulated professional auto-related of love, freedom and happiness and its characteristics and all knowledge and traffic safety information with many people. employees’ voluntary services. • Programs for Safe Driving and Our social contribution activities are devoted to fulfilling our Preventing Traffic Accidents responsibilities as a corporate citizen and our public obligations as a Traffic safety broadcast non-life insurance company. · Radio traffic safety broadcast: 20 or more times/ wk, over 1,000 times/yr (KBS, MBC, TBS etc) We are implementing various social contribution projects such as environmental protection, sporting cultural and sports events and donating talent, to say nothing of support for the disabled or Education and safety management training for companies and organizations marginalized. · 138 times/yr and over 20,000 man-days at public/ Employees are actively participating in social contribution activities private companies, fire stations, government around the Promy Voluntary Corps and the Promy Heart Fund. offices, army units, post offices and other groups · Special education for police officers in charge of investigating accidents (11 times) Social Contribution Vision and Strategies I Dongbu Campaign to reduce traffic accidents Insurance is making endeavors to make its social contribution · Organize street campaign activities “its brand” by implementing social contribution programs, · Organize campaign to establish safe driving culture reinforcing employees’ activities of the Promy Voluntary Corps and · Joint local government campaign to reduce traffic accidents pushing for activities on which characteristics of non-life insurance Special vehicle checkup service are reflected with the aim of fulfilling corporate social responsibilities. · Special car checkup service during summer vacation times, national holidays (emergency rescue service, on-site medical support service, etc) • Directions 2008: 409 people, 2009: 203 people, 2010: 707 people Implementing Specialized Social Employees’ Participation in Promy Contribution Programs Voluntary Corps Activities Talent Donation · Supporting multicultural families · Conduct activities twice a year · Risk Management Research Center: (summer and winter) Dongbu Insurance has been offering fire safety check services and Checking safety of welfare facilities. · Regular support for welfare facilities · Expanding environment-friendly products fire prevention items to social welfare facilities and day care centers and support – Environmental painting festival and Evergreen auto insurance as a talent donation activity since 2009. Checking Safety of Welfare Facilities · Checked 34 welfare facilities and donated fire Turning Social extinguishers in 2009 Contribution · Checked 22 welfare facilities and donated first-aid kits Activities in 2010 into Brand Support for Surviving Children of Traffic Accident Fatalities Activities on which Characteristics of Non-Life Dongbu Insurance regularly deliver funds to surviving children of Insurance Business Were Reflected. traffic accident fatalities recommended by the Road Traffic Authority · Sponsoring firefighters · Traffic safety education and broadcast to ensure that they do not lose hope or their dreams and grow up to · Helping children of their parents were killed in traffic accidents members of society. We not only give financial support to them but also visit them to help them regularly Social Contribution Activities Befitting Characteristics of Insurance Business I ·W e were sponsoring nine such children as of Safe Driving and Preventing Traffic Accidents March 2011 Dongbu Insurance conducts a traffic safety awareness and traffic 2011 Sustainability Report Dongbu Insurance Campaign-Connected Donation Activities • Highlights of Promy Voluntary Corps’ Activities Dongbu Insurance carried out “Smart Children Love Campaign” Details through which the company raised a fund in accordance with sales Free Meal Activities of new products and donated the fund and a matching grant to · Delivered free meals to about 600 marginalized people. Relevant Organization: Bappeo (Dail Welfare children with incurable diseases. Foundation) In addition, we have been holding the Love More Events that accumulates a certain amount of money per e-service including yearDonating Quarantine Suits · Donated 1,000 quarantine suits against foot-and-month end tax adjustments on our home page and donated the money to disease by visiting Baekam-myeon of Yongin City children of poor families who need operations since 2009. All the money goes to the Korean Organization for Rare Diseases. Sharing Live of Love · Has delivered rice and daily necessities to low-income families every December since 2006 (about 2,000 families) Making Kimchi of Love · Has made and delivered kimchi to marginalized people every November and December since 2006 (about 600 families) Sharing Coal Briquettes of Love · Delivered coal briquettes to low-income families (5,000 coal briquettes) Santa Clause of Love We have been implementing various programs such as · Delivered gifts to 38 children of the Saebit Children multicultural market places, multicultural camps, housing Welfare Center projects for multicultural families and birthday parties for babies of multicultural families since signing an MOU with the Wonju Multicultural Center in Gangwon Province in Sponsoring Disabled People and Teenagers May 2011 · Carried out social contribution activities by visiting orphanages with the Promy Basketball Team · Repaired and cleaned houses of low-income families of handicapped people Employee Participation in Social Contribution Activities I · Sponsored Deulmusae Essay Contest for police officers Promy Volunteer Corps and firefighters Recovery from Disaster The Promy Volunteer Corps was organized to implement social · Carried out recovery activities and delivered daily contribution more systematically. The corps is led by the CEO and necessities and donations to residents in disaster-hit areas (SamYook Rehabilitation Center) engages in volunteer service activities in seven regions -Seoul, Helping Farmers Gangwon, Gyeongin, Daejeon, Daegu, Gwangju and Busan -· Provided assistance to sister farming villages during across the country. busy seasons as part of “one company for one village” program (Yangjeong-ri Village of Sangju and etc) · Helped farmers with the Promy Basketball Team (Yongsomak Village of Wonju City) Cleaning and Protecting Environment · “One headquarter for one mountain” activities (cleaning mountains) · Took part in making cities clean by cleaning areas near streams and rivers. (Gwangju Stream of Gwangju, the Geumho River of Daegu, Bomun Mountain of Daejeon, Suncheon Bay of Honam and etc) Social Responsibilities 58 l 59 Promy Heart Fund Sponsoring Golf Tournament The Promy Heart Fund is a matching grant fund whereby employees In order to create a sound social culture Dongbu Insurance has been voluntarily donate a fixed amount from their monthly salaries to various types of golf tournaments such as the Dongbu Promy KPGA support worthy causes. Dongbu Insurance donates a matching Champions Invitational and the Matchplay Championship since grant equal to the employees' contributions. It is used for the Promy 2005. We are steadily carrying out activities to sponsor sports such Volunteer Corps and donations for diverse purpose. Participants and as offering new items for entertainment and attractions. amounts increased a great deal thanks to the voluntary campaign in 2010. At present, 2,230 employees participate in the Promy Heart Supporting Public Service Activities I Fund. Until 2010 a total of KRW590 million has been raised while Supporting Firefighters KRW340 million has been donated. We have been sponsoring the KBS119 Awards to encourage firefighters and spread awareness of fire safety throughout society • Promy Heart Fund Fund since 2003. (unit : KRW thousand) Spent amount 120,000 87,350 76,000 75,000 63,978 53,605 2008 2009 2010 Employee Volunteer Clubs Employees have organized volunteer clubs. Currently, two clubs are actively participating in community service activities. Sponsoring the KBS 119 • Activities by Volunteer Clubs Supporting Electric Bulletin Board to Prevent Traffic Accidents Club Name Main Activities We are operating electric bulletin boards around the Seoul ·S  amYook Rehabilitation Center in Gwangju City, Metropolitan Area with an eye toward motivating people to drive Dongbu Sarang Gyeonggi-do Nanumi safely by informing people of statuses of traffic accidents. ·V  olunteer activities and support (4 places) ·F  or Seoul Metropolitan Dongbu Hospital Gruteogi ·N  ursing the elderly with dementia Supporting “Promise Campaign” for Public Good We have been steadily holding the “Radio Promise Campaign” to Support for Sports I Dongbu Insurance is a proud sponsor of contribute to creating a sound social culture on the basis of promises diverse sporting events in order to promote sound use of leisure time and trust since 2009. and sports development. We are making efforts to develop and spread contents for public good to remind people of meanings of promises with customers. Operation of Pro Basketball Team Dongbu Insurance is striving for the development of sports in Donation for Disaster Victims Gangwon Province by operating the Dongbu Promy Pro Basketball We are pushing for donation activities to help people victimized by Team since its foundation in Wonju in October 2005. The team is big disasters and incidents. In 2010, we donated KRW740 million to popular among basketball fans thanks to its sportsmanship and help victims of the Cheonan and Yeonpyeong Island Incidents and outstanding plays. the earthquake in Japan. 2011 Sustainability Report Dongbu Insurance Ethical Management Society-friendly Insurance I Dongbu Insurance is developing Ethical Management Systems I products and services in consideration of social issues. We are Compliance putting our utmost efforts into developing society-friendly products Dongbu Insurance and is running an evaluation system to such as auto insurance for the disabled, insurance products concretizes compliance items to measure compliance levels by discounted for marginalized people, an insurance money donation sectors and duties and establish ethical management. Common system for the establishment of an advanced donation culture, compliance items are work ethics, matters pointed out by outside insurance for children of low-income families in partnership with auditors, ethical code violations and evaluation items for compliance the Micro-Credit Foundation and insurance to promote childbirth activity reports. We are realizing ethical management practiced by all in partnership with local governments. We will continue to fulfill our employees by developing compliance index evaluation items steadily corporate social responsibilities by developing products and services for the purpose of establishing an ethical corporate culture. for marginalized people and low-income families in the future. We introduced a voluntary fair trade observance program to ensure • Society-friendly Insurance that we operate in accordance with the principle of equity. In Product Details addition, we have appointed a compliance officer and developed a · Insurance for the handicapped, targeting cars owned by the disabled 24/7 internal control system to ensure that all our official documents Promy Gomduri · Provides special guarantees for the disabled: Health are monitored. We obtain prior authorization from the Financial Auto Insurance care expenses and subsidies for the purchase of Supervisory Service regarding all materials used to promote and sell orthoses. our products. All privately prepared materials should be based on · Insurance specially designed for low-income people. Promy Heart · Offers the same guarantee that existing products do. materials officially approved by the company. Thanks to such efforts, Insurance Gives an 8% discount when accepting a special we have never been accused of exaggeration or false advertising. contract. (Began to sell in April 2011) · Holds an organ donor campaign and operates death 100-Year-Old Youth benefit donation system to encourage advanced Insurance donation culture · Supports small-sum guaranteed insurance for Dream Love children of very needy classes by utilizing dormant Head Office Insurance insurance money Internal Control of Financial Colorful Children ·P rovides support for insurance from a family’s third Reports Safety Insurance child to overcome low birthrate • Sales of Society-friendly Insurance (Unit: KRW million) 2008 2009 2010 Sales Work Ethics Claims Promy Gomduri Quality 153 133 130 Service sales Auto Insurance Abide by claims Complete procedures 100-Year-Old Youth sales 16,736 17,466 8,694 Insurance Dream Love 28 194 131 Insurance Colorful Children • Compliance Marks (Unit: point) 28 47 35 Safety Insurance 2008 2009 88.0 83.2 2010 Evaluation Methods: The perfect score is 100 points. Absolute evaluation has been applied. 88.4 Social Responsibilities 60 l 61 Legal Risk Management Legal Service Support for Customer Satisfaction At Dongbu Insurance, legal analysis operations are currently being Dongbu Insurance is providing legal consulting services for handled by the legal affairs part under the compliance officer. The customers through the legal consulting corner on its home page. part answers questions on legal matters related to the business This service is provided to any who uses the home page. At present, of the head office, sales policies, legal matters on activities and the service is used not only by customers but also solicitors, legal risks related to claims. Legal risk questions are about overall insurance agents and employees. As of 2010, a total of 1,423 legal corporate matters including the establishment and revision of the services were provided. articles of association, company regulations and policies, personnel and labor management. The number of the questions is steadily Anti-corruption and Bribery Prevention I To root out increasing every year. corruption and bribery, Dongbu Insurance established regulations that prohibit the acceptance of bribes, special treatment or • Legal Risk REVIEWS (unit: case) entertainment, special considerations and other forms of wrongful gifts from partner firms. We also have detailed conduct guidelines. Questions from Head Office Questions from Sales Sector Questions from Claims Sector Whistle Blowing Employees may make reports anonymously or under their names on bribery and corrupt activities through the company’s intranet whistle44 blowing system. Furthermore, to encourage the reporting of such violations, we operate various channels. We set up a help line on 143 the homepage of Korea Business Ethics Institute (KBEI) that offers 2008 404 Total: 591 informants a full range of protective measures. The general public may also file reports via the “Financial Accident and Irregularities Reporting Center” and “Ethics Reporting Center” pages found on our company website. The number of whistle blowing cases through the home page stood at 26 in FY’08, 36 in FY’09 and 26 FY’10. These cases were settled 26 through deliberations among people concerned. We received 26 whistle blowing cases in 2008, 36 cases in 2009, 26 cases in 2010 167 2009 through the home page. In the case of we find wrongdoings and 550 Total: 743 briberies, we report them to the Audit Department or punish those concerned by holding the HR Committee. We inform employees of those punished and the reasons for the punishment and offer education to prevent similar cases. Love Auction 38 114 In line with our ethical management efforts, when an employee receives a gift or other goods from a person or their source is 2010 unclear, he or she is required to report it to the compliance officer. 710 The said goods are then sold through an auction called “Love Total: 862 Auction” with the proceeds going to needy people. From 2009 to 2010, Love Auction proceeds amounted to KRW2,751,200 of which KRW2,000,000 was donated to the social welfare groups, making employees establish ethical management. 2011 Sustainability Report Dongbu Insurance Donation to Political Parties and Groups Internal Control Framework to Prevent Money Laundering Dongbu Insurance did not donate any money to political parties Dongbu Insurance has an internal control framework in place to and groups during the reporting period. Our code of ethics prohibits effectively prevent money laundering. We have developed and are employees’ any political activities. operating a system that enables us to perform differential customer due diligence according to risk level. Internal Control I Operation of Internal Control for Financial Reports Ethical Education I Dongbu has been operating an internal control system on financial Ethical Education for Employees reporting for the purpose of securing credibility in our financial Ethical education is compulsory for all newly recruited employees, information and improving transparency. The system was launched including promoted workers. All workers also received ethical with control activities on 77 processes and 1,117 detailed processes education via an online course. A total of 198 newly recruited that impact our financial statements. Every year, we add or change employees received ethical management education from 2009 to (redesign) control activities. Results of the internal control assessment 2010. We provided all employees with ethical management education contribute to securing transparency in companywide work process through in-house broadcast when necessary. In addition, we have through continued feedback on improvement measures. given ethical and legal compliance education to compliance officers and financial managers at each department across the nation since Before 2008 2009 2010 Others 2010. Our subsidiaries which introduced our ethical management No. of Processes 77 77 77 education systems provide their newly recruited employees with 10 (new) and 122 No. of Control 1,117 1,139 1,271 ethical education as part of their basic education programs. (changed/redesigned) Activities in 2010. Signing Oaths to Honor Ethical and Legal Standards Disclosure Check-list Dongbu Insurance is putting forth efforts for ethical management Dongbu Insurance created an in-house disclosure check-list in order such as online and offline education for all employees and their to ensure that our disclosures to the Financial Supervisory Service, signing oaths for ethical management with a view to securing the Fair Trade Commission, Korea Stock Exchange, the General corporate ethics and fulfilling our corporate social responsibilities. We Insurance Association of Korea and our homepage are made in are endeavoring to form a desirable relationship with society on the a timely manner. Additionally, disclosure personnel and managers foundation of ethical management. Employees of subsidiaries submit working in relevant departments are required to make regular checks signed oaths to abide by ethical and legal standards. (daily, weekly and monthly) of items for disclosure. When an item • Written Oaths (unit : person) for disclosure is discovered, an automatic notice is given to related 2008 2009 2010 departments. No. of Participants 3,966 4,101 4,636 • Disclosures / Violations of Disclosures (unit: case) Category 2008 2009 2010 No. of Disclosures 83 70 87 No. of Violations 1 ※ According to disclosures on the DART of the Financial Supervisory Service Social Responsibilities 62 l 63 • Anti-Money Laundering Framework Management BOD ·Is responsible for planning, designing, managing ·Is responsible for supervising overall internal control and evaluating internal control policies to prevent designed and managed by the management Reporting money laundering. ·Reviews evaluation and measures by the ·Must report to the BOD about the observance and management and the Audit Committee weaknesses of internal control policies. First Responsibility Second Responsibility Business Division AML Department Audit Committee ·Responsibility : Head of division ·Responsible for building, operation, ·Inspects the adequacy of the design ·Responsible for Preventing Inspecting supervising and changing an antiInspecting and operation of money laundering money laundering system prevention work Money Laundering in Division and Management ·Education on basic business unit ·Inspects the adequacy of anti-money Supporting sector laundering monitoring system ·Carries out such activities once or more times a year Inspecting 2011 Sustainability Report Dongbu Insurance Shareholders and Investors Maximizing Shareholder Return Shareholders and Investors 64 l 65 Economic Performance Management Performance I • Breakdown of Direct • Business Performance Summary (K-GAAP) (unit: KRW100 million, %) Premiums Written (unit: %) Category 2008 2009 2010 Auto Direct premiums written 51,283 59,805 71,137 Long-Term Net premiums earned 47,282 54,824 64,221 Commercial Incurred losses 36,721 43,245 51,187 Net expenses 10,381 11,914 13,588 Increase in catastrophe reserve 365 377 439 9.2 Underwriting income (185) (712) (993) 28.7 Investment income 3,183 3,815 4,871 2008 Net income 2,315 2,263 2,844 1) Adjusted net income 2,680 2,640 3,284 Invested assets 73,268 87,116 105,233 62.1 Total assets 89,529 105,997 128,713 Total shareholders' equity 8,402 11,735 13,772 Catastrophe reserves 3,722 4,099 4,538 Adjusted shareholders' equity2) 12,124 15,833 18,310 9.0 Combined ratio 99.6 100.6 100.9 24.9 Loss ratio 77.7 78.9 79.7 Expense ratio 22.0 21.7 21.2 2009 Solvency margin ratio 192.6 231.3 245.5 NPL ratio3) 0.9 0.5 0.6 Coverage ratio4) 114.3 154.0 142.8 66.1 Investment yield 4.7 4.9 5.1 Adjusted ROA5) 3.1 2.7 2.4 Adjusted ROE6) 22.4 18.9 16.7 Payout ratio 16.4 21.0 20.0 8.4 25.3 Earnings per share (KRW) 3,857 3,729 4,018 1) Adjusted net income = Net income + increase in catastrophe reserves 2010 2) Adjusted shareholders' equity = Shareholders' equity + catastrophe reserves 3) NPL ratio = Below substandard loans / total loans 4) Coverage ratio = Allowance for loan losses / below substandard loans 5) Adjusted ROA = Adjusted net income / [(beginning total assets + ending total assets) / 2] 66.3 6) Adjusted  ROE = Adjusted net income / [(beginning shareholders' equity +beginning catastrophe reserves + ending shareholders' equity + ending catastrophe reserves) / 2] Despite many difficulties such as a slump in the Korean economy, an increase in the loss ratio of auto insurance and a decrease in the coverage of medical reimbursement insurance due to the aftermath of the global economic crisis in 2008 and the financial crisis in Europe in 2010, the Korean non-life insurance industry enjoyed steady growth such as a year-on-year increase of 17.1% in FY’10 thanks to a recovery in auto insurance and a steady increase in demand for long-term insurance. In 2010, our direct premiums written rose 18.9% year on year to KRW7,113.7 billion while our net income stood at KRW284.4 billion, an increase of 25.7% from a year earlier. 2011 Sustainability Report Dongbu Insurance The increases were attributable to the fact that Dongbu Insurance margin and adjusted ROE higher than industry averages over the pushed for the three management principles -good communication past three years. In the future, we will continue to make efforts to among employees, practical value and self-management -of steadily generate profits by expanding its size around long-term “Dynamic Dongbu,” and a control over the loss ratio and reducing insurance, advancing risk management capabilities and enhancing costs through an expansion strategy around profitability and the stable asset management capabilities. steady enhancement of management efficiency. In terms of direct premiums written, long-term insurance took 66.3% followed by Financial Soundness I Insurers doing business in Korea auto insurance (25.3%) and commercial insurance (8.4%). We are should maintain enough capital to cover the liabilities for insurance planning to continue expanding its size around profitability and a contractors. Solvency margin ratio is used to check whether the sales strategy around long-term guarantee-type insurance. company has sufficient capitals to cover the liabilities for insurance contractors. In 2008, our solvency margin ratio dipped below Growth and Profitability I Dongbu Insurance has recorded 200% due to the financial crisis in 2008. On the strength of a steady differentiated business performances through strong business improvement in management soundness, our solvency margin competitiveness thanks to low business cost and the establishment maintains at 245.5% despite the financial crisis in 2010. Therefore, of a stable profit generation structure. Notwithstanding the global Dongbu Insurance proved strong financial stability. Beginning in economic crisis in 2008 and the financial crisis in Europe in 2010, 2011, the solvency margin ratio was replaced with the more stringent the company has been steadily growing on the foundation of a risk-based capital (RBC) system. By reinforcing risk management stable financial structure. As a consequence, we realized the steady and elevating management soundness, we maintained an RBC ratio expansion of the size around long-term insurance, premium-profit of 256.4% as of the end of September 2011. Embedded Value (EV) EV is a method to measure the long-term value created by long• Financial Stability (unit: KRW100 million, %) term insurance contracts that the insurer holds currently. Dongbu Adjusted shareholders' equity 18,310 15,833 Insurance calculates and announces its EV once a year. An outside Solvency margin ratio 12,124 organization verifies the calculation method and result. In 2010, our 245.5 EV was laid at KRW3,253.3 trillion. More details are available on the 231.3 home page of Dongbu Insurance. 192.6 (www. idong bu.com) 2008 2009 2010 • Growth & Profitability (unit: KRW100 million, %) 2008 2009 2010 Category Dongbu Insurance Top 3 Insurers Dongbu Insurance Top 3 Insurers Dongbu Insurance Top 3 Insurers Growth of Direct Premiums Written 9.0 8.5 16.6 15.9 18.9 18.5 Growth of Total Assets 10.4 11.2 18.4 16.8 21.4 18.3 Premium-Profit Margin 5.7 4.7 6.0 5.0 5.1 4.3 Adjusted ROE 22.4 15.0 18.9 15.2 19.2 11.2 ※ The top 3 insurers were decided in terms of sales Shareholders and Investors 66 l 67 Activities to Enhance Shareholder and Investor Value Enhancing Shareholder Value I in conferences and non-deal road shows for local and overseas Dividend Policy investors eight times in 2008, nine times in 2009 and ten times in 2010 We have maintained a high dividend policy to enhance shareholder while providing investment information transparently through regular value by realizing stable and steady performances. In 2010, dividend meetings for domestic and foreign analysts and institutional investors. per share was KRW900, while dividend rate as of par value rose to 180%, an increase of 30% from a year before. Dividend payout ratio Innovation Management for Enhancing Shareholder dropped 1% to 20% from a year before. Value I Major Innovation Activities • Status of Dividends (unit: KRW100 million, %) Dongbu Insurance wants to grow in terms of quantity and quality. Category 2008 2009 2010 To this end, the company is steadily moving ahead with innovation Dividend per share (KRW) 600 750 900 activities with a view to elevate differentiated competitiveness in Net income 2,315 2,263 2,844 core business areas after setting the highest work efficiency goals Total dividend payment 380 475 570 in the industry. The company is carrying out important business Dividend payout ratio 16.4 21.0 20.0 plans systematically by utilizing various innovation methods such PI Global Credit Rating I (process innovation), Six Sigma, work efficiency enhancement and S&P Rating digital methods. We are making endeavors in order to give bigger In 2010, Dongbu Insurance was assigned a rating of BBB+ (Stable) value to shareholders and customers by steadily re-producing added for six consecutive years by Standard & Poor's, one of the world's value with something new and different through companywide top three crediting rating agencies. The investment grade rating innovation. All executives are taking care of innovation project as attests to our strong profitability, sound asset as well as our excellent champions. The CEO is making innovation performances realized investment income. by taking charge of the innovation meeting organization and feeding Category 2008 2009 2010 back project progress and qualities. We check the KPI and goals Credit rating BBB+(Stable) BBB+(Stable) BBB+(Stable) and results of innovation financial performances every month one year after the completion of all innovation projects while fully ※ In 2011, S&P gave the company a “BBB+/Positive” rating. This rating was very rare as the rating rose to Positive from Stable despite the financial crisis in Europe. This means understanding that real innovation depends not only on conducting that S&P reflected our capital adequacy and stable business performances on the rating. tasks but also on how good performances are. In addition, we A.M Best Rating share excellent innovation cases and use them as the foundation for Dongbu Insurance received a rating of A (Excellent) from the global accumulating companywide knowledge assets by holding the BP insurance rating company A.M. Best. in 2010. The company had (Best Practice) Contest twice a year. Dongbu Insurance is developing received it for three straight years since its rating upgrade from innovation activities into a smart working culture beyond problemA-(Excellent) in 2008 in recognition of its business results such as solving processes and methods. strong profitability and capital power. Major Innovation Performances Category 2008 2009 2010 Dongbu Insurance created financial performance of KRW163 billion Credit rating A(Excellent) A(Excellent) A(Excellent) through 186 innovation projects in 2010. ※O  ur rating was at A (Excellent) in 2011, the same that we were given in the previous year. Category 2008 2009 2010 Providing Investment Information I Dongbu Insurance Projects 177 186 186 provides information that meets user needs through various onInnovation Performances 2,021 1,100 1,630 line and off-line channels. The company provides timely investment (KRW100 million) information such as company vision, management strategies, ※ The calculation period of innovation performances has been changed to one year since 2009. operating results, shareholder and stock price information and press releases through a steady update on its home page. We participated 2011 Sustainability Report Dongbu Insurance Environmental Responding to Climate Change Environmental 68 l 69 Environment-friendly Management Vision for Environment-friendly Management I Dongbu Participation in the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) Insurance Co., Ltd. has established and pushes forward three Dongbu Insurance signed the Carbon Disclosure Project (hereinafter strategies and 10 tasks related to environmental management in referred to as “CDP”) in 2009 and since then, has actively promoted order to found a resource-recycling economy and society and solidify the reduction of greenhouse gas emission. All CDP signatories low-consumption economic structures. shall make public corporate greenhouse gas emission, risks and The company works hard to reduce carbon emission per unit area opportunities pertaining to climate change, and carbon management by 10% by 2015 compared against the emission as of 2010, which strategies. The corporate information related to climate change will contribute to economic development, social integration, and is provided to 538 global financial institutions including major environmental conservation aimed at sustainable environmentpension and funding organizations as materials to assess corporate friendly management. It aims to become a leading company in the sustainable management. As of 2011, about 3,050 companies area of environment-friendly management of the Republic of Korea across the world take part in the CDP. by 2020 based on the promotion of the three strategies covering • Major Contents of the Guideline for specialization in environmental risk management, minimization of Environmental Management environmental footprints, and expansion of green financing. Executives and employees, overseas offices and branches, Scope of management activities and decision making, products and application services, and stakeholders Developing into a Leading Company in the area of Seven Principles for Vision Environmental management by 2020 Carbon Emission environment-friendly Seven principles for environment-friendly management Reduction by 10% by 2015, against the current emission management Individual organizational R&R in the Environment Division Division dedicated to under the Executive Committee Task Force Team for environmental issues Sustainable Management 1. Strengthen R&D for Environmental Risks Specialization of environme2. A  rrange international cooperation and Management of Management of performance in environmental indexes, ntal risk adjustment performance in methods and programs for environmental performance management environmental indexes assessment, and diagnosis of environmental management 3. Expand stakeholder's participation Sustainable products Development of environment and society-friendly products 4. Minimize business impact on environment and services and services from the perspective of sustainability (six areas) Three 5. P  romote environmental management of Minimization of partners and affiliates strategies Environmental 6. A  chieve national policies through activities to Participation of Participation and activities of stakeholders in the area of and ten Footprints reduce greenhouse gases stakeholders environment-friendly management tasks 7. E  xpand scope of environmental index management 8. P  rovide environment and society-friendly Expansion of products Green Financing 9. A  sset management of and investment in and Environmgreen industries ental Projects 10. S upport insurance subscribers in the area of green managemnet Establishment of the Guideline for Environmental Management I In order to reduce the impact of products and services on our environment, the company has established and provided the enterprise-level Guideline for Environment-friendly Management to major stakeholders with an expected effect of increasing awareness of the executives and employees. 2011 Sustainability Report Dongbu Insurance Practicing Environmental Policies Minimization of Impact on Environment I Dongbu procedure pertaining to environmental risk assessment and review Insurance has set a principle to assess environmental impacts of in all finance and insurance businesses so that the company can insurance product development, financial investment activities, transform the environmental risks to business opportunities and fulfill and corporate building construction and arrange ways to minimize its commitment to economic development and social responsibilities. the factors of negative impacts. The business areas subject to environmental impact assessment cover all management activities of Strengthening Internal Activities for Protection of Dongbu Insurance such as insurance products and services. Environment I Dongbu Insurance has promoted a series of As for real estate development such as the data centers, training management activities for continuous environmental performance centers, and buildings, environmental risk assessment is conducted in all corporate processes. In 2009, the company acquired the at the earlier project stages while as for financial products such as Environmental Management System (ISO 14001) arranged by the insurance and investment, environmental impact assessment is International Organization for Standardization in the area of risk applied at the stage of development design. Additionally, monitoring management. The Environmental Management System is to assess the results from environmental risk assessment during management how comprehensively environmental management takes place in the activities minimizes the impact on environmental risk. areas of environmental policies, planning, execution and operation, In 2011, the impact of traditional environmental risks such as Risk of review and correction, review of management, and continuous Heavy Rains was assessed in addition to research and development improvement further from compliance with the relevant environmental related to climate changes such as global warming. The results are laws and regulations as well as standards. referred to in all management activities covering insurance products In 2011, the company developed environment experts such as the and services. Environment Management System Auditor prescribed in the ISO Dongbu Insurance strictly complies with the governmental 14001 and conducted R&D for climate change risks as an innovative environmental policies as well as various environment-related laws task to help its executives and employees to become more familiar and regulations. During the period between 2008 and 2010, there with environment-friendly management. was no violation against environment-related laws and regulations. In the future, it will develop environmental experts in various areas In the future, too, Dongbu Insurance will lead to develop sustainable such as the greenhouse gas verifiers and reviewers so that the products and services of environmental concepts by establishing the employees can develop their capacity to lead green financing. • Risk of Heavy Rains Risk of Heavy Rains, X Risk of Heavy Rains, = Risk of Heavy Rains, Frequency Depth Risk Environmental 70 l 71 • Highlights of Environmental Management Activities Electronic Document System • R ealized the Electronic Document Management System (EDMS) in consideration of characteristics of a financial company where many documents such as insurance term papers and insurance policies R educed the use of paper by 63% or 41 million sheets of paper and waste such as toners. E nhanced work efficiency and realizing paperless office Building Green Data Center (Sep. 2010) Electronic Approval System • Reduced annual power consumption • R educed the use of paper by approving by 10% by applying a temperature documents through the Electronic Approval management system System Introducing High-Efficiency LED Lighting to Head Office (Jun. 2010) Electronic Conference System • R eplacing 186 elevator lamps with • Reduced unnecessary moves and carbon L E D l a m p s a n d re d u c e d p o w e r emissions during the moves by holding consumption by 3,674kW a year electronic meetings between workers and departments far away from each other Promy Environmental Painting Festival (Apr. 2010) Signing Eco-Drive MOU • I n s t i l l e d t h e i m p o r t a n c e o f t h e • A ll employees took part in practicing environment amid climate change in green drive to reduce greenhouse gas children’s mind emissions. Expanding Teleworking Call Center Business Model (2010~) Green Life Campaign (Apr. 2010) • Reduced CO2 by 117 tons a year (reducing • E stablished the green life directions for the use of the mass transit system) by all employees (produced and distributed increasing the number of homeworking campaign stickers and screensavers) employees (263 employees) Green Data Center Green Life Campaign Promy Environmental Painting Festival 2011 Sustainability Report Dongbu Insurance Green Start Campaign I For the first time among the insurance companies, Dongbu Insurance promoted the Green Start Campaign to establish green living for the reduction of greenhouse gas emission. It works hard to develop bonds with customers, investors, and business partners related to environmental risks and opportunities into those that enable sustainable win-win relationships. In June 2010, 208 sales partners (DBRT, DongBu Round Table) were officially commissioned to work as the Green Leaders, representatives appointed by the Ministry of Environment. They are now into active environment-friendly activities. Green Leaders, official representatives of the Ministry, campaign to solidify environment-friendly living by diagnosing household greenhouse gas emission, turning off unnecessary power sources, Signing Agreement on Green Sports saving water, and reducing food wastes as well as green living such as reducing the use of disposables by using shopping baskets and purchasing environment-friendly products. In 2011, based on the out activities to minimize greenhouse gas emission by improving environmental funding promoted through Evergreen Auto Insurance, facilities and operations, helping the audience to use public the company carried out midand long-term support programs to transportation, and recycling tools and equipments for cheering cultivate juvenile green leaders in association with the Ministry of activities. Environment and the Green Start Network for nationwide activities. Green Insurance Fee System I Dongbu Insurance has *  reen Start: A national environmental movement to establish G low-carbon life and culture as a green management network arranged the green insurance fee system to reduce social costs and participated by the government, citizen groups and companies. make environmental protection familiar by recommending the use of green recycled parts and components upon automobile repair and suppressing any discretional change of parts and components. The company provides training to its Automobile Insurance Claim Adjustment division, compensation partner Promy network and sales organizations to facilitate the system. In 2010, it provided training to 350 sales agencies, 750 associate repairers, and 540 general repairers across the country. The company consistently promotes and delivers the system by sending e-mails to car insurance subscribers and advertising on the website. Performance in Energy Saving I Dongbu Insurance has a very concrete plan for energy use, which is to minimize energy wastes. The consistent increase of the building areas leads to an Appointing Green Leaders increase of the absolute amount of energy use but carbon dioxide emission per unit area has consistently decreased. Since 2008, it Green Sports I Dongbu Insurance Promy Professional Basketball Team conducts ‘the green basketball campaign’ during the season has expanded the collection of indexes for energy use, leading to base on a contract with the Ministry of Environment to facilitate green the collection and management of materials pertaining to all related sports. It will reduce greenhouse gas emission and ceaselessly carry buildings in addition to the headquarters building. Environmental 72 l 73 Trend in Energy Use (Corporate Buildings Owned by the Company) Category unit 2008 2009 2010 Electricity kwh·1,000m2 238,149 212,133 211,732 Gas m3·1,000m2 6,272 6,082 7,366 2 Kerosene liter·1,000m 1,357 1,262 965 Tap Water ton·1,000m2 888 686 1,447 Indirect CO2 Emissions (electricity) ton·1,000m2 106 94 94 Direct CO2 Emissions(gas and kerosene) ton·1,000m2 17 17 19 2 CO2 Systems ton·1,000m 123 111 113 Total Floor Area m2 98,228 116,729 167,976 ※ Calculation Standard: The amount of use per unit size of buildings of Dongbu Insurance 〈Reason for the Increase in Emission〉 Since 2008, the company has managed emission from all corporate buildings in addition to the headquarters. In 2008, the company owned nine buildings as large as 98,228m2 in gross floor area. The number increased by one in 2009, increasing the floor area to 116,729m2, an increase by 19% from that in 2008. In 2010, the number increased by two, which amounted to 12 corporate buildings as large as 167,976m2 in terms of gross floor area, an increase by 71% from that in 2008. A large increase in the use of water in 2001 is attributable to the operation of a swimming pool and a bath in the newly acquired building. Status of Energy Saving Division Contents •Automatic lights out after the operating hours (20:00) • Amo  unt of yearly purified •Lights off in offices during lunch time (12:00~13:00) sewage released •Higher cooling temperature in the summer (27˚C or higher) 5,405 (In 1,000 m3) Electricity •Keeping the time length for air-conditioner operation (workable until 18:00) •Fluorescent lights in the buildings converted to LED 4,775 lighting (since 2009) 4,527 •Warming temperature lowered in the winter (20˚C or below) Gas •Keeping the time length for boiler operation (workable until 18:00) •Headquarters uses treated water 2008 2009 2010 Water and Sewage •Water-saving faucets •Keeping and minimizing the use of corporate cars and vehicles • Amo  unt of wastes subject •Recommended use of public transportation over business trips to landfill Fueling •The Fifth-Day-No-Driving System 651 •Facilitated electronic meetings and conferences to (In Ton) minimize external ones 623 595 Management of Wastes and Pollutants I The headquarters and the nationwide branches separate garbage. The amount of wastes subject to landfills, released from buildings owned by Dongbu 2008 2009 2010 Insurance was 595 tons in 2009 and 651 tons in 2010. The amount of wastes subject to recycling was 583 tons in 2009 and 586 tons • Amount of wastes subject in 2010. The increase of the amount of wastes subject to landfills is to recycling attributable to an increase of the number of buildings owned by the (In Ton) 586 583 company. On the other hand, the Dongbu Insurance Training Center in Yeoju Gun has separately installed a sewage purification device to protect 556 the water sources in Seoul and Metropolitan areas, which resulted in BOD (Biochemical Oxygen Demand) treatment of sewage released 2008 2009 2010 to meet the level as high as 7~10PPM. 2011 Sustainability Report Dongbu Insurance Sales of Environment-friendly Insurance Products Facilitation of the Use of Public Transportation I The The company has defined and operated the scope of sustainable company works hard to minimize exhaust gas emission from vehicles products and services in six areas. It has established the three areas as the major cause of air pollution. It promotes the use of public of inducing environment-friendly behaviors of customers, supporting transportation instead of cars for commuting and provides benefits green industries, and adapting to climate change to develop over business trip costs to promote the use of public transportation insurances. on business trips. • Areas of Environment-friendly Insurance Products • Distance covered through public transportation on Leading and Financial products providing incentives to business trips (In 1,000 km) inducing customers with environment-friendly lifestyle or Division 2008 2009 2010 environmentbusiness forms (Evergreen Special Car Insurance, friendly behaviors of Air 1,014 786 1,161 customers Weekday-based Car Use Insurance, etc.) Public Transportation 120 110 121 A product and service to support new green or (Train or Bus) Support for green clean technologies such as new and renewable industries energy (New and Renewable Energy Investment Efforts to Protect Environment in Area of Purchase I “The Funds, etc.) Instruction for Contracting”, which prescribes matters pertaining An insurance product/service to cope with the to corporate articles and items as well as construction services, Adaptation to increasing risks from traditional floods and storms climate change as well as climate change (Insurance and Storm states the protection of environment. It requires the assessment Insurance, etc.) of compliance with environmental laws and regulations and environmental quality when selecting a partner. When directly Environment-friendly Insurance Products I purchasing articles, the company prioritizes green products or those Evergreen Auto Insurance bearing environmental marks and certifications. Also, in the event that The company developed and started selling the evergreen special a partner has violated against environmental laws and regulations, car insurance where subscribers to car insurances since December it excludes the partner or restricts its participation in the selection of 2009 decided to receive insurance policies and stipulations partners. At the same time, the company has consistently promoted electronically rather than by post. The amount saved by not using the use of renewable products. As for renewable toners, the use paper will be a discounted insurance fee gift to customers. Also, a amounted to 85% in 2008, 75% in 2009, and 79% in 2010 while the certain amount per sale will be saved and donated to the GreenStart use of renewable office articles amounted to 58% in 2011. for its environmental activities. In 2010, about 306,000 people ※ As for the recycled tools and equipments, the change to new models has subscribed to this special contract and became the beneficiaries. decreased the recycling rate compared to 70% as of 2008. Special Contract for Use of Environment-friendly Car Parts and Components This product provide 20% of the price for new parts and components to customers (owners of the damaged cars) in the event that the customers use environment-friendly parts and components (secondhand parts and components, too) upon car repair due to an accident. Special Contract for Weekday-based Car Insurance The special contract for the weekday-based car insurance was launched in June 2010. This is based on a commitment not to use a car on a specific weekday during a week. When this is abided by, a certain amount of insurance fees paid by customers will be Environmental 74 l 75 discounted, contributing to the reduction of traffic volume and accident. Comprehensive Insurance for Public Bicycles This insurance is to safeguard customers who commute by bicycle instead of car against various risks and dangers in response to the international and domestic movement to facilitate the use of bicycles. Storm and Flood Insurance and Crop Insurance Storm and flood insurance and crop insurance are insurance products to contribute to the stabilization of farmers by compensating for damages from natural disasters out of climate change and resolving instability in agriculture. • Sales of Environment-friendly Products (In KRW 100 million) 2008 2009 2010 Evergreen Special 603 1,932 Contract Car insurance Special Contract for Weekday-based Car 1.9 Use Crop insurance 109 117 162 Storm and flood insurance 23.9 46 49 ※ The special contract for the use of environment-friendly parts and components and the comprehensive insurance for public bicycles are subject to the sales after April, 2011. The sales performance will be reported in the following report. ※ The performance in the storm and flood damage insurance as of 2008 presented in the 2009 report is revised to KRW 2.39 billion. Appendix 77 Third-Party’s Assurance Statement 80 GRI G3.1 Index 85 Statement 86 Joining UN Global Compact 87 History 88 Awards and Recognition 89 DJSI Korea 90 Memberships in Associations and Organizations 91 Code of Ethics 92 Glossary of Terms Appendix 76 l 77 Third-Party’s Assurance Statement To the Management of the Dongbu Insurance Scope and Methodology 2011 Sustainability Report The Assurance Provider carried out the following activities in order to (1) Upon request of Dongbu Insurance, the Institute for Industrial Policy review the extent to which The Report applies the principles of Inclusivity, Studies as a “third party assurance provider” (hereinafter referred to as the Materiality and Responsiveness and (2) “Assurance Provider”) presents the following third party’s assurance report Assess the Report’s application level of the GRI/BEST Sustainability on the “Dongbu Insurance 2011 Sustainability Report (hereinafter referred Reporting Guidelines. to as the “Report”)”. Evaluating the sources of publicly disclosed information and internal parties involved Verifying the performance data collection systems and processes Accountability and Objective C onducting interviews with managers and staffs responsible for Dongbu Insurance is held accountable for all information and claims dimension-specific performance contained in the Report including sustainability management goal setting, Completing on-site review focusing on the head office from February 16, performance management, data collection and report preparation. The 2012 to February 17, 2012 objective of this assurance report is to check whether the Report is free E valuating the Report for the extent of adherence to the GRI/BEST of material misstatement or bias and whether the data collection systems Guidelines used are robust, and to offer advice on improving the quality of the Report through identifying sustainable management issues and reviewing its Limitations reporting process. A review of the accuracy and reliability of data and interviews with persons in charge of data collection and performance-related information Independence at management levels The Assurance Provider has no relations with Dongbu Insurance regarding Verifying the data and inquiries into each functional manager and any of its for-profit operations and activities. In addition, the Assurance information collection manager On-site validation focused on the head Provider has carried out its assurance process with independence and office autonomy as it was not involved in the preparation of the Report except for Assurance engagement based on data and publicly available information offering comments in the process. only during the current reporting period Evaluation of the reliability of the performance data being excluded Criteria for Assurance The Assurance Provider assessed the Report against the following Conclusions guidelines: The Assurance Provider did not find the Report to contain any material 1) AA1000 Assurance Standard (2008) misstatements or bias on the basis of the scope, methodology and criteria 2) BEST Guideline described above. All material findings of the Assurance Provider are 3) Global Reporting Initiative(GRI) G3.1 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines provided herein, and detailed findings and follow-up recommendations have been submitted to the management of Dongbu Insurance. Type and Level of Assurance [Inclusivity] The Assurance Provider conducted assurance process for the Report in Are procedures for stakeholder strategy-setting and accordance with Type 1 and Moderate Level of AA1000AS (2008). engagement adequate at Dongbu Insurance? The Assurance Provider evaluated the reliability of the data compiled in the Report for Type 1 assurance, and assessed publicly disclosed The Auditor noted continuous efforts by Dongbu Insurance to establish information, reporting system and performance management process and improve its process for stakeholder engagement based on a full based on the three core principles of AA1000AS (2008), namely appreciation of the importance of stakeholder engagement in the Inclusivity, Materiality and Responsiveness. However, this assurance implementation of its sustainability management program. The Auditor engagement does not provide the evaluation of the credibility of the confirmed various channels of communication put in place by the offered data. Company to better identify priority areas of concern for its stakeholders The Assurance Provider pursued moderate level of assurance where shareholders, investors, customers, suppliers, management and staff, as sufficient evidence has been obtained and limited sampling has been well as the community in achieving its sustainability management goals. conducted at each performance sector to support its assurance report The following points were found to be particularly commendable. such that the risk of its conclusion being in error is reduced but not reduced to very low or not zero. 2011 Sustainability Report Dongbu Insurance •Efforts to establish sustainability management strategies for better The Report represents the Company’s strong commitment toward • stakeholder engagement; efforts to organize a company-wide system sustainability management as well as its future plans and outlines the dedicated to sustainability management such as its Sustainability Company’s official position on various issues relative to findings from Management Council, Working Committee on Sustainability Management, expert interviews. etc. The Report provides an account of Dongbu’s intended response regarding • •Continuous use of various engagement platforms such as customer internal and external stakeholder views by collecting actual employee satisfaction surveys, consumer focus groups, VOC, townhall meetings grievances, comments from customers etc. with the CEO, conferences, IR sessions, meetings with compensation Going forward, the Auditor suggests reporting on key management partners, etc., to more actively reflect stakeholder views in its business highlights such as any improvements to existing programs, newly management. introduced systems etc., while also outlining Dongbu’s future plans so Going forward, however, the Auditor suggests further upgrading that stakeholders can track continuous efforts by the Company toward its existing processes so that findings from its various stakeholder improvement as well as its capacities. engagement channels can be more actively incorporated into its business management activities and managed more systematically on a company[GRI Application Levels] wide basis to have more actionable value in the Company’s business The Assurance Provider found the Report to apply to GRI G3.1 Reporting management Framework at the level of A+. [Materiality] Does the Report contain information of the highest [BEST Fulfillment Levels] material importance to Dongbu Insurance stakeholders The Assurance Provider found the Report to fulfill 93.91% of the reporting across the economic, social, and environmental requirements necessary to qualify for a Level 4 Report (from among Level 1 dimensions? ~ 5). It is the Auditor’s view that the Report does not omit or exclude issues of material importance to the stakeholders of Dongbu Insurance. We verified • Trend of the Dongbu Sustainability Report Fulfillment efforts by the Company to fully reflect issues identified to be of material stakeholder interest through its materiality testing process covering internal Reporting Year 2006 2009 2011 company policies, direct and indirect economic impact, internal rules and Publications 1st 2nd 3rd regulations, stakeholder surveys, benchmarking, media search, etc. The Level Level 3 Level 3 Level 4 following points were found to be particularly commendable. Fulfillmen 87.9% 95.6% 93.9% •The Report reflects efforts by the Company to carry out a more systematic ※Assurance findings were converted uniformly into fulfillment ratios as measured analysis of all relevant stakeholder-specific issues by strengthening its against Level 1 through 5 requirements. materiality testing process. •The Report provides a detailed outline of the process for identifying issues of material importance to the Company’s sustainability management program as well as its outcome while structuring the findings to reflect their order of priority. Going forward, however, the Auditor recommends carrying out a timeseries analysis on issues identified repeatedly through the materiality testing process and share trend information. [Responsiveness]: Does the Report provide an adequate response to stakeholder expectations and areas of concern? It is the Auditor’s view that Dongbu Insurance has been working to be responsive to stakeholder demands and concerns by running various channels for stakeholder communication to collect and respond proactively to key feedback findings. The following points were found to be particularly commendable. Appendix 78 l 79 Recommendations Eligibility of IPS as an Assurance Provider Relative to the prior year, the Auditor found “Sustainability Management Established in 1993, the Institute for Industrial Policy Studies (IPS) has 2011 Dongbu Insurance,” commendable on the following counts. The accumulated broad expertise in the areas of ethics management, corporate Report 1) provides a highlight summary so that stakeholders can have social responsibility and sustainable management since 2002, and serves a snapshot view of the sustainability management achievements of as a third party assurance provider for the sustainability reports published Dongbu Insurance; and 2) provides a detailed account of the Company’s by local companies. IPS has conducted the assurance engagement sustainability management plans for the future through a more an upon request of Dongbu Insurance and assembled a team of assurance elaborated Disclosures on Management Approach (DMA); and 3) highlights providers who are professors at Korea’s top universities or professionals efforts by the Company to strengthen its sustainability management with accreditation and extensive experience in sustainability management capabilities by way of responding to international sustainabilityafter majoring in business management, accounting or environmental related initiatives. For future reports, the Auditor suggests the following science. considerations. Establish a mid-to-long term roadmap for sustainability management • reflective of the triple bottom line – economy, society, and environment. Build a system for the development and management of sustainability • management performance indicators. Provide a more balanced account of performance including negative • results while outlining plans for improvement. Uncover case studies showcasing strategy-setting and execution involving • stakeholder participation. The Auditor advises Dongbu Insurance to continue to build upon and improve a more systemic system for sustainability management and February 28, 2012 reporting based on the recommendations included in this assurance statement as well as the separate written recommendation forwarded to Jae-eun Kim the management of Dongbu. President, The Institute for Industrial Policy Studies 1. AA1000 AS(Assurance Standard) is a sustainability reporting standard developed by Accountability in its pursuit to promote overall organizational performance and accountability by improving the quality of social and ethical accounting. As a U. K. based not-for-profit organization focusing on corporate social responsibility and business ethics, Accountability first developed AA1000AS in 1999 and amended the standards in 2008 for application in 2010. 2. BEST Guideline or BEST Sustainability Reporting Guideline is a guideline for the preparation and assurance of sustainability reporting and offers five levels of reporting quality assessment. It was jointly developed by the Ministry of Knowledge Economy (MKE), the Institute for Industrial Policy Studies (IPS), and the Korea Chamber of Commerce and Industry (KCCI) in the Business Ethics Sustainability Management for Top Performers (BEST) forum in their endeavor to promote sustainability reporting among local companies. 3. GRI G3.1 Guidelines: The Global Reporting Initiative (GRI), which was jointly convened by the Coalition for Environmentally Responsible Economies (CERES) and the UNEP in 1997, first released its G3 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines in October 2006. The G3.1 Guidelines, which is an update and completion of the G3, was published in March 2011, featuring broader guidance on how to report on human rights, gender, and local community issues. G4, the fourth generation of Guidelines, is due to be launched in 2013. 2011 Sustainability Report Dongbu Insurance GRI G3.1 Index Repo Related No. Description Pages -rted BEST Enterprise Strategy 1.1 Statement from the most senior decision-maker of the organization. • 8~9 A_1 and Analysis 1.2 Description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities. • 21 A_2 2.1 Name of the organization. • 11 A_3 2.2 Primary brands, products, and/or services. • 13 A_4 2.3 Operational structure of the organization, including main divisions, operating companies, subsidiaries, and joint ventures. • 11~12 A_5 2.4 Location of organization's headquarters. • 11 A_7 Number of countries where the organization operates, and names of countries with either major operations or that are Organiz2.5 • 12 A_7 ational specifically relevant to the sustainability issues covered in the report. Profile 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form. • 11~13 A_8 2.7 Markets served (including geographic breakdown, sectors served, and types of customers/beneficiaries). • 11~12 A_9 2.8 Scale of the reporting organization. • 11~13 A_10 2.9 Significant changes during the reporting period regarding size, structure, or ownership. • Inside Front Cover B_8 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period. • 88 CO8 3.1 Reporting period (e.g., fiscal/calendar year) for information provided. • Inside Front Cover B_3 3.2 Date of most recent previous report (if any). • Inside Front Cover B_8 3.3 Reporting cycle (annual, biennial, etc.) • Inside Front Cover B_6 3.4 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents. • Inside Back Cover B_9 3.5 Process for defining report content. • 24, 28 B_4 Boundary of the report (e.g., countries, divisions, subsidiaries, leased facilities, joint ventures, suppliers). See GRI 3.6 • Boundary Protocol for further guidance. 28, Inside Front Cover B-1 3.7 State any specific limitations on the scope or boundary of the report (see completeness principle for explanation of scope). • Inside Front Cover B-2 Report Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, leased facilities, outsourced operations, and other entities that can Parameters 11 A_6 3.8 significantly affect comparability from period to period and/or between organizations. • Data measurement techniques and the bases of calculations, including assumptions and techniques underlying 3.9 estimations applied to the compilation of the Indicators and other information in the report. Explain any decisions not to • Inside Front Cover apply, or to substantially diverge from, the GRI Indicator Protocols. Explanation of the effect of any re-statements of information provided in earlier reports, and the reasons for such re3.10 • Inside Front Cover statement (e.g.,mergers/acquisitions, change of base years/periods, nature of business, measurement methods). 3.11 Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the scope, boundary, or measurement methods applied in the report. • Inside Front Cover B_5 3.12 Table identifying the location of the Standard Disclosures in the report. • Table of Contents, 16~17 B_10 3.13 Policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance for the report. • Inside Front Cover, 76~79 B_7 Governance structure of the organization, including committees under the highest governance body responsible for 4.1 • 19~20 GR1 specific tasks, such as setting strategy or organizational oversight. 4.2 Indicate whether the Chair of the highest governance body is also an executive officer. • 19 GR1, GR3 For organizations that have a unitary board structure, state the number and gender of members of the highest 4.3 • 19 GR2 governance body that are independent and/or non-executive members. 4.4 Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to provide recommendations or direction to the highest governance body. • 42~43 GR12 GovernaLinkage between compensation for members of the highest governance body, senior managers, and executives nce, 4.5 • 20 GR7 (including departure arrangements), and the organization's performance (including social and environmental performance). Commitments, 4.6 Processes in place for the highest governance body to ensure conflicts of interest are avoided. • 19~20 GR13 and EngageProcess for determining the composition, qualifications, and expertise of the members of the highest governance body and its ment 4.7 • 20 GR4 committees, including any consideration of gender and other indicators of diversity. Internally developed statements of mission or values, codes of conduct, and principles relevant to economic, 4.8 • 60. 91 environmental, and social performance and the status of their implementation. Procedures of the highest governance body for overseeing the organization's identification and management of economic, 4.9 environmental, and social performance, including relevant risks and opportunities, and adherence or compliance with • 21~22 GR5 internationally agreed standards, codes of conduct, and principles. 4.10 Processes for evaluating the highest governance body's own performance, particularly with respect to economic, • 21~22 GR6 Appendix 80 l 81 Repo Related No. Description -rted Pages BEST 4.10 environmental, and social performance. • 21~22 GR6 4.11 Explanation of whether and how the precautionary approach or principle is addressed by the organization. • 23 GR11 Externally developed economic, environmental, and social charters, principles, or other initiatives to which the 4.12 organization subscribes or endorses. • 14~15 GR10 Governance, Memberships in associations (such as industry associations) and/or national/international advocacy organizations Commit4.13 in which the organization: * Has positions in governance bodies; * Participates in projects or committees; * Provides • 90 A_11 ments, substantive funding beyond routine membership dues; or * Views membership as strategic. and Engage4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization. • 16, 29 C_1, C_2 ment 4.15 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage. • 29 C_1 4.16 Approaches to stakeholder engagement, including frequency of engagement by type and by stakeholder group. • 29, 31, 33 C_2 Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement, and how the organization has 4.17 • 32~33, 42~43 C_3 responded to those key topics and concerns, including through its reporting. Economic EC Disclosure on Management Approach • 17 Direct economic value generated and distributed, including revenues, operating costs, employee compensation, EC1 • 29 EC1 donations and other community investments, retained earnings, and payments to capital providers and governments. Economic perforEC2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the organization's activities due to climate change. • 69~71 EC2 mance EC3 Coverage of the organization's defined benefit plan obligations. • 41 EC3 EC4 Significant financial assistance received from government. • 13 EC5 EC5 Range of ratios of standard entry level wage by gender compared to local minimum wage at significant locations of operation. • 41 EM4 Market EC6 Policy, practices, and proportion of spending on locally-based suppliers at significant locations of operation. • 39, 41 EC4 presence Procedures for local hiring and proportion of senior management hired from the local community at significant locations EC7 • 39, 41 EC4 of operation. Development and impact of infrastructure investments and services provided primarily for public benefit through Indirect EC8 • 56~60 EC6 economic commercial, in-kind, or pro bono engagement. impacts EC9 Understanding and describing significant indirect economic impacts, including the extent of impacts. • 16~17, 56~60 EC7 Environmental EN Disclosure on Management Approach • 17 EN1 Materials used by weight or volume. • 73 EV10 Materials EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials. • 73 EV11 EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary energy source. • 73 EV7 EN4 Indirect energy consumption by primary source. • 73 EV8 EN5 Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency improvements. • 73 EV5 Energy Initiatives to provide energy-efficient or renewable energy based products and services, and reductions in energy EN6 • 73~74 EV5 requirements as a result of these initiatives. EN7 Initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption and reductions achieved. • 73~74 EV5, EV25 EN8 Total water withdrawal by source. • 73 EV9 Water EN9 Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of water. ◇ N/A EV20 EN10 Percentage and total volume of water recycled and reused. • 73 EV18 Location and size of land owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to, protected areas and areas of high biodiversity EN11 ◇ N/A EV22 value outside protected areas. Description of significant impacts of activities, products, and services on biodiversity in protected areas and areas of high EN12 ◇ N/A EV22, EV26 biodiversity value outside protected areas. Biodiversity EN13 Habitats protected or restored. ◇ N/A EV27 EN14 Strategies, current actions, and future plans for managing impacts on biodiversity. ◇ N/A EV6, EV26 Number of IUCN Red List species and national conservation list species with habitats in areas affected by operations, by EN15 ◇ N/A EV28 level of extinction risk. EN16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight. • 73 EV12 2011 Sustainability Report Dongbu Insurance Repo Related No. Description Pages -rted BEST EN17 Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight. ◐ 73 EV13 EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and reductions achieved. ◐ 69~70 EV4 EN19 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances by weight. ◇ N/A EV14 EN20 NOx, SOx, and other significant air emissions by type and weight. ◇ N/A EV15 Emissions, EN21 Total water discharge by quality and destination. • 73 EV17 effluents ◐ and waste EN22 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method. 73 EV16 EN23 Total number and volume of significant spills. ◇ N/A EV21 Weight of transported, imported, exported, or treated waste deemed hazardous under the terms of the Basel Convention EN24 ◇ N/A EV29 Annex I, II, III, and VIII, and percentage of transported waste shipped internationally. Identity, size, protected status, and biodiversity value of water bodies and related habitats significantly affected by the EN25 ◇ N/A EV19 reporting organization's discharges of water and runoff. Products EN26 Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of products and services, and extent of impact mitigation. • 73~74 EV23 and services EN27 Percentage of products sold and their packaging materials that are reclaimed by category. ◇ N/A EV24 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with environmental Compliance EN28 • 69~71 EV31 laws and regulations. Significant environmental impacts of transporting products and other goods and materials used for the organization's Transport EN29 • 73 EV30 operations, and transporting members of the workforce. Overall EN30 Total environmental protection expenditures and investments by type. • 74 EV1 Labor LA Disclosure on Management Approach • 17 LA1 Total workforce by employment type, employment contract, and region, broken down by gender. • 39 EM1 Employment LA2 Total number and rate of new employee hires and employee turnover by age group, gender, and region. • 39 EM5 LA3 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or part-time employees, by major operations. • 41~42 EM20 LA4 Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements. ◐ 44 EM12 Labor/ management Minimum notice period(s) regarding significant operational changes, including whether it is specified in collective relations LA5 • 44 EM13 agreements. Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint management-worker health and safety committees that help LA6 monitor and advise on occupational health and safety programs. ◐ 44 EM14 OccupatRates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and number of work-related fatalities by region and ional LA7 • 44 EM19 health by gender. and safety Education, training, counseling, prevention, and risk-control programs in place to assist workforce members, their LA8 • 44 EM18 families, or community members regarding serious diseases. LA9 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade unions. • 44 EM15 LA10 Average hours of training per year per employee by gender, and by employee category. • 39~40 EM27 Training Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that support the continued employability of employees and assist and LA11 • 39~40 EM28 education them in managing career endings. LA12 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews, by gender. • 39~40 EM29 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per employee category according to gender, age LA13 • 43, 19~20 EM2 Diversity and group, minority group membership, and other indicators of diversity. equal opportunity LA14 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men by employee category, by significant locations of operation. • 41 EM3 LA15 Return to work and retention rates after parental leave, by gender. • 43~44 Human Rights HR Disclosure on Management Approach • 17 AbolishPercentage and total number of significant investment agreements and contracts that include clauses incorporating HR1 • 35~37 PN2 ment human rights concerns, or that have undergone human rights screening. of discriminPercentage of significant suppliers, contractors and other business partners that have undergone human rights screening, ation HR2 • 50~51 PN3 and actions taken. Appendix 82 l 83 Repo Related No. Description -rted Pages BEST AbolishTotal hours of employee training on policies and procedures concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to ment HR3 • 45 EM30 of operations, including the percentage of employees trained. discrimination HR4 Total number of incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken. • 45 EM7 Freedom of Operations and significant suppliers identified in which the right to exercise freedom of association and collective association and collective HR5 • 45 EM8 bargaining bargaining may be violated or at significant risk, and actions taken to support these rights. Operations and significant suppliers identified as having significant risk for incidents of child labor, and measures taken Child labor HR6 • 45 EM9 to contribute to the effective abolition of child labor. Prevention of forced and Operations and significant suppliers identified as having significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory labor, and compulsory HR7 • 45 EM10 labor measures to contribute to the elimination of all forms of forced or compulsory labor. Security Percentage of security personnel trained in the organization's policies or procedures concerning aspects of human practices HR8 • 45 EM31 rights that are relevant to operations. Indigenous ◇ rights HR9 Total number of incidents of violations involving rights of indigenous people and actions taken. N/A CO2 Human HR10 Percentage and total number of operations that have been subject to human rights reviews and/or impact assessments. • 45 rights HR11 Number of grievances related to human rights filed, addressed and resolved through formal grievance mechanisms. • 45 Society SO Disclosure on Management Approach • 17 Percentage of operations with implemented local community engagement, impact assessments, and development SO1 • 54~55, 57~60 CO2 programs. Local commuSO2 Operations with significant potential or actual negative impacts on local communities. • 51~52, 53~55 CO5 nities Prevention and mitigation measures implemented in operations with significant potential or actual negative impacts on SO3 • 62 CO5 local communities. SO4 Percentage and total number of business units analyzed for risks related to corruption. • 61 CO5 Corruption SO5 Percentage of employees trained in organization's anti-corruption policies and procedures. • 61~62 CO6 SO6 Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption. • 61~62, 69~71 CO7 Public SO7 Public policy positions and participation in public policy development and lobbying. • 51~52, 53~55 CS3 policy • SO8 Total value of financial and in-kind contributions to political parties, politicians, and related institutions by country. 35~36, 61~62 CO9 Anti-competitive ◇ behavior SO9 Total number of legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly practices and their outcomes. N/A Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with laws and Compliance SO10 • 35~36, 61~62, 71 regulations. Product Responsibility PR Disclosure on Management Approach 17 Life cycle stages in which health and safety impacts of products and services are assessed for improvement, and Customer PR1 • 35~37 CS4 percentage of significant products and services categories subject to such procedures. health and Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning health and safety impacts safety PR2 • 35 CS11 of products and services during their life cycle, by type of outcomes. Type of product and service information required by procedures, and percentage of significant products and services PR3 • 33~35 CS5 subject to such information requirements. Product and Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning product and service service PR4 • 35~37, 53~55 CS12 labelling information and labeling, by type of outcomes. PR5 Practices related to customer satisfaction, including results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction. • 31~32 CS9 Programs for adherence to laws, standards, and voluntary codes related to marketing communications, including PR6 • 35~37, 53~55 CS13 Marketing advertising, promotion, and sponsorship. communications Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning marketing communications, PR7 • 35~37, 53~55 CS14 including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship by type of outcomes. Customer privacy PR8 Total number of substantiated complaints regarding breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer data. • 35 CS15 Monetary value of significant fines for non-compliance with laws and regulations concerning the provision and use of Compliance PR9 • 33~34 CS12 products and services. 2011 Sustainability Report Dongbu Insurance Repo No. Description Pages -rted Impact by Products and DMA Disclosure Management Approach • 17 Services FS1 Policies with specific environmental and social components applied to business lines. • 57, 69 FS2 Procedures for assessing and screening environmental and social risks in business lines. • 53~55, 69~70 Processes for monitoring clients’ implementation of and compliance with environmental and social requirements FS3 • 53~55, 69~70, 74 included in agreements or transactions. Processes for improving staff competency to implement the environmental and social policies and procedures as FS4 • 55, 57~58 applied to business lines. Product portfolio FS5 Interactions with clients/investees/business partners regarding environmental and social risks and opportunities. • 57, 59~60, 73~75 FS6 Percentage of the portfolio for business lines by specific region, size (e.g. micro/SME/large) and by sector. • 10~13 Monetary value of products and services designed to deliver a specific social benefit for each business line broken FS7 • 58~60 down by purpose. Monetary value of products and services designed to deliver a specific environmental benefit for each business line FS8 • 74~75 broken down by purpose. Coverage and frequency of audits to assess implementation of environmental and social policies and risk assessment Audit FS9 • 53~55, 69~71 procedures. Percentage and number of companies held in the institution’s portfolio with which the reporting organization has FS10 • 52~55, 67 interacted on environmental or social issues. Active ownership FS11 Percentage of assets subject to positive and negative environmental or social screening. ◐ 53~55, 69~71 Voting policies applied to environmental or social issues for shares over which the reporting organization holds the FS12 • 21~22 right to vote shares or advises on voting. FS13 Access points in low-populated or economically disadvantaged areas by type. • 54~55, 57~60 Communities FS14 Initiatives to improve access to financial services for disadvantaged people. • 59~60 Product liability FS15 Policies for the fair design and sale of financial products and services. • 53~54 Product and • service labeling FS16 Initiatives to enhance financial literacy by type of beneficiary. 33~35, 39~40 Appendix 84 l 85 2011 Sustainability Report Dongbu Insurance Joining UN Global Compact Dongbu Insurance officially expressed its will to honor the ten principles of the UN Global Compact by joining the UN Global Compact in November 2011. Principle Activity Page Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of Supporting human rights protection by joining the 45 internationally proclaimed human rights; and compact. Human Rights *Internal control activities Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights *Employee education on human rights and work ethics 36, 45, 62 abuses. *Strengthening customer information Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association *Dynamic Leader Conference and the effective recognition of the right to collective 42~44 *Meeting between employees and CEO bargaining; Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor; *Banning forced labor 45 Labor Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labor; and *Banning child labor 45 Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment *Operating grievance addressing system for employees 41, 45 and occupation. *Operating fair evaluation system *Donating to tentative environmental school Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to *Establishing environmental guideline 69, 72 environmental challenges; *Taking part in CDP EnvironPrinciple 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental *Carrying out energy-saving campaigns 71~72, 74 ment responsibility; and *Participating in Green Start and Green Sports Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally *Developing Evergreen Auto Insurance friendly technologies. *Developing special agreement to use eco-friendly parts 74~75 Anti-Corruption *Developing special weekday-based agreement *All employees write oaths to abide by the Ethical Code of Conduct AntiPrinciple 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, *Operating auction for sharing love with others 61~62 Corruption including extortion and bribery. *Operating whistle-blowing system Appendix 86 l 87 History 1962~1999 2007~2008 1962. 03 Founded Korea Public Automobile Insurance Company 2007. 01 Opened Call Center in Jeonju 1968. 11 Dissolved Korea Public Automobile Insurance Company and 2007. 12 Acquired patent of BM (Business Method) in claim handling established Public Automobile Insurance Co. 2008. 01 Rated ‘BBB+’ by S&P for two consecutive years and Rating 1976. 05 Introduced, for the first time in Korea, unlimited coverage Outlook was adjusted upward from ‘Stable’ to ‘Positive’ liability insurance for car owner indemnity, a precursor of current 2008. 01 Certified of ‘Excellence in Consumer Complaints Management automobile insurance System, CCMS’ for H2, 2007 1983. 05 Dongbu Group acquired the managerial right of the company 2008. 08 Took over Dongbu Securities as a subsidiary 1984. 02 Began selling all lines of non-life insurance products except for 2008. 09 The Risk Management Research Center obtained an ISO 14001 guarantee insurance certificate, a first for an insurance company in the world 1984. 10 Opened a branch in Guam 2008. 12 Rated A (Excellent) by A.M.Best 1995. 10 Renamed Dongbu Insurance Co. Ltd. 2000~2006 2009~2010 2001. 10 Rated A-(Excellent) by A.M.Best 2009. 01 Certified as ‘the Best Financial Company with Outstanding 2002. 09 Adopted PROMY as its auto insurance brand Consumer Protection Program’ by FSS 2004. 02 Launched motorbike-based “PROMY SOS Speed Service” (the 2009. 02 Won an ISO 27001 certificate industry’s first) 2009. 04 Rated First Grade of Customer Complaints Handling by FSS for 2004. 05 Declared the New Management Innovation ‘Change & Challenge five consecutive years No. 1 (C&C No.1)’ 2009. 04 Dongbu commercial claims handling service acquired ISO 9001 2004. 07 Sales of direct automobile insurance commenced as a strategic certification, a first for a Korean non-life insurance company alliance with Tesco Homeplus 2009. 08 The Risk Management Research Center acquired OHSAS 2005. 01 Launched Best Life Accident Insurance through Hyundai Home 18001 certification, a first for the risk management area in the Shopping world insurance industry 2005. 10 Established the Dongbu Promy Basketball Team 2009. 09 Included as a member of the 70 companies in the SRI of the 2006. 04 Opened the Hawaiian branch Korea Stock Exchange 2006. 05 Introduced Promy Life, a long-term insurance brand 2009. 10 Selected as ‘the Best Industry Company in Korea of Dow Jones 2006. 07 Established an office in China Sustainability Index’ 2009. 12 Opened the LA branch 2009. 12 Rated ‘BBB+’ by S&P for four consecutive years and Rating Outlook of ‘Stable’ 2010. 01 Completed the construction of the Jukjeon Data Center 2010. 01 Certified as ‘2010 Excellent Company in Customer Complaint Management System (CCMS)’ by Fair Trade Committee 2010. 02 Completed construction of its Risk Based Capital (RBC) system 2010. 10 Announced a new slogan, “Dynamic Dongbu” 2010. 10 Selected as ‘the Best Industry Company in Korea of Dow Jones Sustainability Index’ for two consecutive years 2011 Sustainability Report Dongbu Insurance Awards and Recognition 2010 2009 Jun Apr • Won Grand Prize in Korea Service Awards of Korea Standard Association • General Claims Service Acquired Industry-First ISO 9001 Certification • Won Grand Prize in Trust Company Category of Company of Korea 2010 for Five Straight Years • Certified as Excellent Personal Information Protection Site by KAIT Aug • A cquire OHSAS18001 (Occupational Health and Safety Management System) Certification Aug • Ranked 1st in Auto Insurance Category of KS-WCI for 3 Straight Years Sep • Won Best Korean Company Prize of KCEOA Oct • Ranked 1st in Insurance Category of DJSI Korea • Ranked 1st in Long-term Insurance Category of KS-SQI for 2 Consecutive Oct Years • Selected as Korea’s Highest Brand by Joong-Ang Ilbo • Won Grand Prize of Korea Financial Innovation Awards of Money Today • Certified as Best Call Center by Korea Call Center Information Research Center Dec • Selected as Best Company in CSR Society Sector of Nov • Won Prize of Minister of Environment in MOU Sector in Green Start National Network Contest Dec • Won Grand Prize of GWP Awards of GWP Korea. Appendix 88 l 89 DJSI Korea Ranking First in Insurance Sector of DJSI Korea for 3 Years Running Ranking First in Insurance Sector of DJSI Korea for 3 Selected as Member of Bronze Class and Sector Years Running Mover in Insurance Sector of Global Sustainability Management in SAM Sustainability Year Book Dongbu Insurance came in first in the DJSI Korea in 2011, ranking first in the standings for three straight years. The DJSI is an Dongbu Insurance was selected as a member of the Bronze objective and authoritative sustainability management evaluation Class* and a sector mover** in Sustainability Year Book, 2012 of index which worldwide SRI organizations use. SAM, a global sustainability management evaluation organization. Dow Jones, a global financial company and SAM, a sustainability Dongbu Insurance is pushing for sustainability management as the management evaluation organization, evaluate sustainability most important management task. We are laying the foundation management performances of major companies around the for the win-win growth of companies and society through a wide world and announce excellent companies by industrial sectors array of activities. At the same time, we are fulfilling our corporate every year. Dongbu Insurance has cemented its position as a social responsibilities as a leading company in sustainability sustainability management leader by ranking first in the insurance management by participating in the Carbon Disclosure Project or sector for three consecutive years among the top 200 Korean CDP and the UN Global Compact companies in the DJSI Korea in 2011. This is expected to contribute to enhancing the corporate value of Dongbu Insurance along with the expansion of socially responsible investment. *) Bronze Class : Top 5% to 10% of leaders in the insurance sector in the world. There are the Gold Class (less than 1%), the Silver Class (1%~5%) and the Bronze Class (5%~10%). **) Sector Mover: A title given to one of the top 15% companies in each sector which rose most from a year before. 2011 Sustainability Report Dongbu Insurance Memberships in Associations and Organizations Federation of Korean Industries Korean Association of Business Ethics Exchanges of opinions and networking among companies Shares examples of excellent ethical management Korean Non-Life Insurance Association BEST Forum (KNIA) Shares examples of excellent ethical management and conducts Deals with industry issues and pushes for joint projects for public research on sustainable management good Korean Insurance Academic Society Korean Fire Protection Association Studies theories, laws, regulations, and actual operations of the Prevents fires, checks fire warning facilities, offers research and insurance industry / collects and applies research data education on fire-related issues Korea Management Association CFO Forum Exchanges information for management innovation and stronger Builds global CFO networks, suggests opinions on company competitiveness management and capital market, implements ethical management Korea Employers Federation Korea Personnel Improvement Associate Exchanges opinions on major issues including labor relations Builds networks to share information on personnel and education and training issues Financial Security Agency Exchanges various information protection activities such as Association of Listed Firms in Korea preventing and coping with financial security accidents Exchanges opinions and protects rights and interests Korea Financial Information Protection National Quality Award (NQA) Winners Council Builds a network of companies which won world-class national Exchange opinions with financial institutions and supervising quality prizes Benchmarks global standards organizations to protect information Appendix 90 l 91 Code of Ethics Ⅰ. Foreword Ⅱ. Main Contents Chapter 1. Pursuit of Customer Satisfaction and Prosperity Chapter 2. Building Partnership Trust Chapter 3. Basic Ethical Responsibilities of Employees Paragraph 1. Responsibilities to Company 1. Employees shall have passion for their work. 2. Employees shall execute their duties in a fair manner by prioritizing customer value. 3. Employees shall conduct themselves in a dignified manner by showing exemplary self-management. 4. Employees shall continuously learn new skills and grow their capacities Paragraph 2. Responsibilities to colleagues 1. Employees shall aim for solidarity based on order, trust and love. 2. Employees are forbidden from exchanging gifts. 3. Employees are forbidden from engaging in financial transactions with each other. 4. Sexual harassment is strictly prohibited. Chapter 4. Protecting Rights and Interests of Shareholders and Investors 1. The Company shall protect interests of shareholders and investors 2. Shareholders shall have fair treatment 3. The Company shall reliable and useful information in a timely manner. 4. The Company shall maintain transparent accounting practices 5. Insider trading shall be prohibited Chapter 5. Pursuit of Free Competition Market Order 1. The Company shall respect the order of the insurance market based on free competition principles. 2. The Company shall acquire and use information in a legal manner. 3. The Company shall pursue fair trade and a win-win relationship with partner firms. Chapter 6. Duty to Country and Society 1. The Company shall engage in sound business practices based on quality management. 2. The Company shall contribute to social development and the prosperity of mankind. 3. The Company and employees shall not engage in political activities. 4. Eco-friendly environment management 2011 Sustainability Report Dongbu Insurance Glossary of Terms 1. Stock-Listed Corporation 8. Dynamic Leader A corporation whose securities are listed on the stock market Those in charge of GWP and CS activities by departments 2. Comprehensive Insurer 9. Dongbu Service Standard 36 An insurance company which sells insurance policies through A service standard for employees of Dongbu Insurance. The sales agencies standard has six items of “Promises with Customers.” Each item has six detailed items to practice. 3. Reinsurance Company An insurance company which underwrite some of insurances 10. Consumer Complaints Management System (CCMS) which comprehensive insurers underwrote New CCM system certification is conducted after a change in the old certification. This evaluates companies with consumer4. Guarantee Insurance Company oriented management every two years. An insurer that sells products which guarantee a loss incurred due to default. 11. IFDS An anti-insurance fraud system consisting of a pre-payment 5. Direct Premiums Written recognition system which turns insurance claim risks into indices Insurance premiums from original insurance policies and automatically reports them to those in charge of claims and a post-payment claim analysis system. 6. Earned Premium: The amount of total premiums collected by an insurance company over a period that have been earned based on the ratio of the time passed on the policies to their effective life. This prorated amount of paid-in-advance premiums have been earned and now belong to the insurer. 7. RBC System Risk-based capital (RBC) represents an amount of capital based on an assessment of risks (insurance, interest rate, market, credit and operational risks) that a company should hold to protect customers against adverse developments. More information on this report is provided through the home page and the management planning part of the Management Innovation Team (Sustainable Management Office) Manager Seo Byung-chul (sbc1004@dbins.net, 82-2-3011-3155), Assistant Manager Jung Yoon-sung (F1062429@dbins.net, 82-2-3011-3157) Address : Dongbu Financial Center, 432, Teheran Road, Gangnam-gu, Seoul, 135-523, Korea Fax : 82-0505-181-0016 www.idongbu.com This report was printed on environment-friendly paper certified by the FSC(Forest Stewardship Council) with soy ink. Dongbu Financial Center, 432, Teheran Road, Gangnam-gu, Seoul, 135-523, Korea Tel: 82-2-3011-3155 Fax: 82-505-181-0016 www.idongbu.com
