2 7 e PGNiG stock 2/ 207 Responsible energy CSR Report 2010 Responsibility is at the heart of everything the PGNiG Group and its employees do. It is our core value. In all our activities, we strive for balance and a smooth combination of business, social and environmental objectives. 3/ 207 1. Mission and values Our mission in the area of sustainable development is to be a responsible actor on the Polish energy market, one that understands and respects the needs and expectations of key stakeholders and the natural environment, and promotes innovative and environment-friendly solutions and technologies. Responsibility Responsibility is the foundation of day-to-day work of each PGNiG employee, irrespective of their job; it is iasl stoh ea fcohuanl ldeantgi oe nmoof t idvaayt-i tnogduas yt ow owrokr ko ft oe w a cahr d s P oG u rN icGo m em mpolno ygeoeo, di.r r e s p e c t i v e o f t h e i r j o b ; i t i s also a challenge motivating us to work towards o Weu understand r c o m m oresponsibility n g o o d . as: • care for our economic, social and natural environment We • joint understand responsibility efforts designed as: the Company’s value and reputation to build •• care for our economic, of social and natural environment i•s care h efor the security our business partners and customers tjoint b u effortsi l d i n g designed o f l o n g t e r m r to build the Company’s value e l a t i o nand s hreputation ips, •b a avoiding s e dforo theconfl n m icts of interest u t u a ofl tourr ubusiness s t a n dpartners b e n e and f i t icustomers ng all parties •• carerefraining fromsecurity accepting and offering gifts and undue financial benefits i•n vavoiding o l v e dconfl , b oicts t hof w i t h interest i n P G N i G – w i t h o u r employees a n d t r a d efrom u n i o n s , aand n d e x t e rgiftsn a l l y undue – w i t h o u rbenefits Partnership i s •t hrefraining e b u i l d i n gaccepting o f l o n g toffering customers, local communities and other market b apsleady eorns . m u t u a l t r u s t a n d b e n e f i t i n g a l l p a r t i e s involved, both within PGNiG – with our employees e r m r e l a andt i o n s h i pfinancial s, a nWe d understand t r a d e u npartnership i o n s , a nas:d e x t e r n a l l y – w i t h o u r Partnership p l •a y care o m e r sconditions c u•s t creating e r s for c o m m uton cooperation , l o c a l conducive ities and other market . the interpersonal relations among employees • tolerance for diverse views and expectations at the workplace We understand partnership as: • dialogue with the Company’s stakeholders and responsiveness to their • creating needs conditions conducive to cooperation • care for the interpersonal relations among employees • tolerance for diverse views and expectations at the workplace • dialogue with the Company’s stakeholders and responsiveness to their needs stakeholders. 0. Tytuł 4/ 207 We understand reliability as: • maintaining confidentiality of information and protecting business secrets • ensuring transparency of operations and information •i s acting on our commitments Reliability at hleand o nc goresponsible -ntsetram i•s fair n t apnedr fceocnt si ni sgt eonf t oeufrf oprrto adiumc et sd t o f•aonsdt esre rav iccuel st ubr yecompetition iomf pcloem mm e nutni incga ti inonno, vbaat si veed o n transparency of sponsorship, dialogue and inspiring trust among all our grants t e c h n o l o g i e s , s t r e a m l i n i n gand a n aprogrammes m CSR gement systems sa tnadk ec hr eoal dt ienrgs . e t h i c s d r i v e n e n v i r o n m e n t a t P G N i G SA, in line with the aspirations of our customers, e munderstand We p l o y e e sreliability a n d pas: artners. • maintaining confidentiality of information and protecting business secrets •We ensuring understand quality as: of operations and information transparency •• acting building onourourrelations commitmentswith customers and business partners Reliability •• fair ensuring high standards and responsible •• transparency focus on development of advertising competition of sponsorship, grants and CSR programmes • making good use of our employees’ potential is the constant perfecting of our products Quality and services by implementing innovative technologies, streamlining management systems and creating ethics-driven environment at PGNiG SA, in line with the aspirations of our customers, employees and partners. We understand quality as: • building our relations with customers and business partners • ensuring high standards of advertising • focus on development • making good use of our employees’ potential Quality 5/ 207 2. Letter from the President Ladies and Gentlemen, It is a pleasure for me to present another “Responsible energy” report, which showcases the social and environmental involvement of PGNiG and its entire Group. It is no coincidence that we have decided to keep For this reason, PGNiG is determined to mobilise the title adopted two years ago, which is at the the energy industry around the idea of sustainable same time the name of a series of conferences development – we do believe that we are able to dealing with the issue of sustainable development cooperate in this field to the benefit of all. Hence in the energy industry, organised every year in our ideas of the Responsible Energy Conference June. The energy sector’s responsibility cannot be and the Declaration on Sustainable Development overestimated in the face of the shrinking natural in the Energy Sector in Poland, which has already resources, energy shortages, or even energy povbeen signed by 20 companies in Poland. We are all erty affecting many families, and – on the other the more eager to get involved in initiatives underhand – the growing challenges of counteracting taken by our partners, including the Responsible climate change and reducing CO2 emissions. Business Forum, the Employers of Poland and the Warsaw Stock Exchange – sponsor of the RESPECT Index. We attach as much importance to their projects as to our own initiatives aimed at developing and increasing the value of PGNiG and the entire PGNiG Group, in line with the sustainability principles. Our participation in the United Nations Global Compact initiative proves that the PGNiG Group is part of the global business community, which is concerned with fostering values and making progress for the sake of the future social and natural environment, and not just to maximise profits. 2. List Prezesa Zarządu 6/ 207 Once again, PGNiG was named the most socially responsible company from the fuel and energy sector in the Ranking of Responsible Companies published by the Dziennik Gazeta Prawna daily. We have also been included in the RESPECT Index of the Warsaw Stock Exchange since its inception. These are all reasons for satisfaction, but also a gas production from the Norwegian Continental stimulus to improve further. 2010 was the first year Shelf in 2011. Our German subsidiary, POGC Tradin our history when the PGNiG Group operated ing, whose business activity will involve trading in in accordance with the Sustainable Development natural gas, is also due to commence operations and Responsible Business Strategy. This is the right in 2011. The 2010 financial performance was the way to move the Company closer to its stakeholdbest since the Company floated its shares on the ers – customers, business and social partners, Warsaw Stock Exchange – with sales revenue at a state authorities and local governments. I am truly In 2010, we carried out a number of business record-breaking level. grateful to all employees of PGNiG and the whole projects of great importance for the PGNiG Group. Group for their commitment, professionalism, and First of all, we successfully concluded negotiations I am all the more pleased that we managed to concreativity. I believe that by conducting our business with our Russian partner, gaining confidence that tinue all along with the implementation of our Susin a sustainable way we are laying the most solid we will be able to meet our fundamental objectainable Development and Corporate Responsibility foundation to successfully build the PGNiG Group’s tive, which has always been to provide secure and Strategy, including work on the Code of Ethics, as long-term value, in line with the aspirations of our reliable energy supplies. In addition, we completed a result of which we were able to formally appoint shareholders, management staff, employees and work on the underground storage facility for the Ethics Officer in 2011 and develop the appropriall partners. nitrogen-rich gas in Bonikowo and carried out the ate system, which has recently been put in place in first projects that will allow PGNiG to become one the entire Company. I encourage you to read the “Responsible energy” of the key players of the power sector. The latter report and share your opinions, doubts, and ideas. included the construction project, executed jointly Together we can achieve more. with Tauron, for Poland’s biggest natural gas-fired CHP plant in Stalowa Wola, as well as agreements Yours faithfully, concluded with Lotos and KGHM. The assets of the PGNiG Group’s existing assembly and construction companies were used to establish a new company, PGNiG Technologie, which will enhance our competitiveness in this area. In 2010, PGNiG Norway acquired interests in new exploration Michał Szubski licences on the North Sea, and work was continued President of PGNiG SA to enable PGNiG to launch crude oil and natural 7/ 207 Natural gas production 4.22 billion cubic metres Crude oil production 501 thousand tonnes 3. PGNiG company Natural gas imports profile: 10.07 billion cubic metres key results in 2010 Natural gas sales 14.42 billion cubic metres Length of the distribution network 117 thousand km 3. PGNiG company profile: key results in 2010 8/ 207 Gaseous fuel distribution DSG GSG KSG MSG PSG WSG Total No. of customers (million) 0.75 1.3 1.4 1.5 0.75 0.9 6.6 Volume distributed (million cubic metres) 1078 1466 1924 2132 992 1688 9280 Length of distribution network, 7.74 20.88 44.76 18.90 9.59 15.49 117.36 excluding connections (thousand km) PGNiG’s sales of natural gas to industrial customers in 2010 Structure of natural gas sales to industrial customers in 2010 Other industrial customers 21.1% Nitrogen processing plants 26.1% Producers of building materials and ceramics 6.5% Glass works 8.2% Power and CHP plants 7.3% Heat-generating plants 4.0% Iron and steel works 6.2% Refining and petrochemical industries 11.3% Food industry 9.3% 3. PGNiG company profile: key results in 2010 9/ 207 Volume of gas sold in 2010 Others 3% Trade and services 11% Households 28% Other industrial customers 34% Nitrogen processing plants 15% Heat and energy producers 9% Headcount as at the end of 2010, by segment (persons) 2010 2009 2008 PGNiG Head Office 840 833 837 Exploration and Production 11,592 10,800 10,725 Trade and Storage 3,809 3,836 3,793 Distribution 13,881 13,851 13,746 Other Activities 2,296 2,073 2,044 Total 32,418 31,393 31,145 3. PGNiG company profile: key results in 2010 10/ 207 Financial highlights of the PGNiG Group [PLNm] 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 2005 Sales revenue 21 281 19 332 18 432 16 652 15 198 12 560 Net profit (loss) 2 457 1 237 866 916 1 328 881 Assets 34 316 31 074 29 745 28 402 30 677 30 364 Equity 23 519 21 435 20 716 21 022 21 153 20 768 * Data sourced from the annual Consolidated Financial Statements In 2010, PLN 6,000,800 was donated by the PGNiG Our core business consists in the production and PGNiG has been listed on the Warsaw Stock ExHead Office to finance various purposes, includsale of natural gas and crude oil. Both domestically change since September 2005. The PGNiG Group ing the activity of PGNiG’s Ignacy Łukasiewicz and abroad, we are engaged in geophysical and has enjoyed growing confidence of the capital Foundation. geological research, exploration for and producmarket and has been assigned excellent credit tion of hydrocarbons, as well as preparation of ratings. Our stature is confirmed by the fact that In 2010, the Group recorded the best financial products for sale. We operate in Denmark, Egypt, PGNiG shares are included in WIG20, the blue-chip results since the first listing of its stock on the India, Yemen, Kazakhstan, Mozambique, Pakistan index of the Warsaw Stock Exchange. Since OctoWarsaw Stock Exchange. Sales revenue reached and Uganda. PGNiG is also involved in projects reber 2009, the shares have also been included in a record-high level of PLN 21.3bn and net profit lated to the production of hydrocarbons from the the Respect social responsibility index. amounted to 2.5bn. Such robust results can be fields on the Norwegian Continental Shelf. attributed mainly to a record-breaking volume of natural gas sold, but also to higher revenues from The Group sells natural gas produced in Poland, sales of crude oil, as well as geological, geophysias well as imported gas. To secure stable and cal and exploration services. continuous supplies of natural gas, the PGNiG Group stores gas in eight modern underground The PGNiG Group is the leader of the Polish natural gas storage facilities. Our gas is supplied through gas market. Companies of the PGNiG Group emthousands of kilometres of pipelines, owned and ploy approximately 30 thousand people, deployed operated by our six regional gas companies, to in Belgium, Belarus, Denmark, Egypt, Norway, households, small and medium-sized businesses Pakistan, Russia, Ukraine and, primarily, Poland, and large industrial plants. where we are one of the largest employers. 11/ 207 3.1. Structure of the PGNiG Group As at the end of 2010, the PGNiG Group comprised PGNiG (the parent undertaking) and 37 production and service companies, including: 25 subsidiaries 12 indirect subsidiaries PNiG Jasło Sp. z o.o. BUG Gazobudowa Sp. z o.o. GK PNiG Kraków ZUN Naftomet Sp. z o.o. PNiG Nafta Sp. z o.o. ZRUG Sp. z o.o. (Pogórska Wola) Geofizyka Kraków Sp. z o.o. BN Naftomontaż Sp. z o.o. Geofizyka Toruń Sp. z o.o. Oil Tech International – F.Z.E. PN Diament Sp. z o.o. Powiśle Park Sp. z o.o. ZRG Krosno Sp. z o.o. Geofizyka Toruń Kish Ltd (Rial) PGNiG Norway AS Zakład Gospodarki Mieszkaniowej Sp. z o.o. POGC – Libya B.V. Biogazownia Ostrowiec Sp. z o.o. INVESTGAS SA CHEMKOP Sp. z o.o. Kraków Operator Systemu Magazynowania Sp. z o.o. GAZ Sp. z o.o. Dolnośląska Spółka Gazownictwa Sp. z o.o. GAZ MEDIA Sp. z o.o. (Wołomin) Górnośląska Spółka Gazownictwa Sp. z o.o. Karpacka Spółka Gazownictwa Sp. z o.o. GK Mazowiecka Spółka Gazownictwa Pomorska Spółka Gazownictwa Sp. z o.o. Wielkopolska Spółka Gazownictwa Sp. z o.o. Geovita Sp. z o.o. PGNiG Energia SA POGC Trading GmbH PGNiG Technologie Sp. z o.o. BSiPG Gazoprojekt SA Polskie Elektrownie Gazowe Sp. z o.o. NYSAGAZ Sp. z o.o. BUD-GAZ P.P.U.H. Sp. z o.o. More information on the PGNiG Group 12/ 207 3.2. PGNiG on the stock exchange The year 2010 marked the fifth anniversary of PGNiG’s IPO on the Warsaw Stock Exchange. The year was notable for yet another reason – in July the Company’s free float increased from 15% to 27%. PGNiG is one of the largest Polish companies listed on the Warsaw market. The Company enjoys the „blue-chip” status, and its shares are listed as part of the WIG20 index (since December 15th 2005) and the prestigious index of socially responsible companies. Alongside nine other names from the fuel On January 25th 2011, for the second time the WSE sector, PGNiG is included in the WIG-Fuels sectoral announced a list of companies to be included in index. the RESPECT social responsibility index. PGNiG was again among the select group of 16 names listed as part of that index. The Company stock was also included in the new WIGdiv index, listed since January 3rd 2011. WIGdiv comprises 30 stocks with the highest dividend yields and regular dividend payments. More on PGNiG on the stock exchange in 2010 13/ 207 3.3. Corporate governance Compliance with corporate governance principles is of vital importance to the PGNiG Group. We treat all o u r s h a r e h o l d e r s i n a f a i r, e q u a l a n d h o n e s t m a n n e r, making every effort to build excellent relations between investors and the Company’s governing bodies. Supervisory Board The Supervisory Board exercises continuous suGeneral Shareholders Meeting pervision over the Company’s activities in all areas of its operations, pursuant to the Rules of The General Shareholders Meeting is the supreme Procedure for the Supervisory Board. The Supervibody of PGNiG, exercising shareholder rights. sory Board is composed of five to nine members, Through the General Shareholders Meeting shareincluding one independent member, appointed holders perform their corporate rights, by examby the General Shareholders Meeting for a joint Until July 19th 2010, the Supervisory Board ining and approving Directors’ Reports, taking three-year term. The State Treasury is entitled to was composed of eight members, including decisions as to the amount, method and date of appoint and remove one member of the SuperviStanisław Rychlicki, Grzegorz Banaszek, Agnieszka dividend payment, and more. The GSM grants dissory Board for as long as it remains a shareholder Chmielarz, Marek Karabuła, Mieczysław Kawecki, charge to members of the other governing bodies of PGNiG. In addition, two members are elected by Marcin Moryń, Mieczysław Puławski, and Jolanta in respect of their performance of duties, appoints PGNiG’s employees if the Supervisory Board conSiergiej. Currently, the Supervisory Board has members of the Supervisory Board, and takes sists of up to six members, and three if there are seven members, as Mr Marek Karabuła was apdecisions concerning the Company’s assets. from seven to nine Supervisory Board members. pointed Vice-President of the Management Board for Petroleum Mining. The Chairman of the Supervisory Board, Mr Stanisław Rychlicki, does not perform any executive or managerial functions at the Company. 3. PGNiG company profile: key results in 2010 14/ 207 Management Board The Management Board is the executive body managing the Company’s business and representing the Company in all actions before and out of court. The Management Board is composed of Michał Szubski – President two to seven members, with the precise number defined by the Supervisory Board. Members of (appointed to the Management the Management Board are appointed for a joint In 2009, the PGNiG Group introduced Management B o a r d o n M a r c h 1 2 th 2 0 0 8 , r e three-year term. The powers of the Manageby Objectives (MBO), a system whereby it is posappointed for another term of ment Board include all matters pertaining to the sible to measure employees’ performance, rather o f f i c e o n M a r c h 1 3 th 2 0 1 1 ) management of PGNiG’s business which have not than compensate them for their working time. been reserved for or delegated to other governing MBO was initially implemented for management Mr Michał Szubski graduated from the Faculty of bodies of the Company by any applicable laws or boards of subsidiaries, heads of branches and Law and Administration at the University of Warthe Company’s Articles of Association. The Manheads of departments at the PGNiG Head Office. saw. He completed postgraduate courses in management Board operates on the basis of applicaAfter one year, the managerial staff was obliged agement of energy companies and natural gas ble laws, including in particular the Commercial to report on the progress with the objectives astransport and distribution. He joined PGNiG in 1994 Companies Code, as well as on the basis of the signed to them. If they were attained, a bonus was and was first employed as Head of the Presidium Company’s Articles of Association and the Rules of granted to well-performing managers. This manOffice of the Company. He later held the position Procedure for the Management Board. agement system provides great support for the of Head of the Legal Office and then served as PGNiG Management Board in the pursuit of objecHead of the Corporate Office. Since October 2000, Currently, the Management Board is composed tives set in the Group’s strategy, by linking the obhe worked at the Mazovian Gas Distribution Diviof five members: Michał Szubski – President, jectives set before individual organisational units sion, the Warsaw Gas Sales Unit, first as Deputy ­Radosław Dudziński – Vice-President, Strategy; with the broad framework of strategic objectives. Director for Restructuring and then as General Sławomir Hinc – Vice-President, Finance; Marek Director. Between 2003 and 2007, he was PresiKarabuła – Vice-President, Petroleum Mining; and dent of the Management Board of gas distribution Mirosław Szkałuba – Vice-President. company Mazowiecka Spółka Gazownictwa Sp. z o.o. From July 2007 to March 2008 he served as PGNiG has appropriate procedures in place to advisor to the Management Board of PGNiG. Curprevent conflicts of interests for members of its rently, Mr Michał Szubski holds the position of supreme supervisory body. The process of preVice-Chairman of the Supervisory Board of System venting such conflicts is part of the public recruitGazociągów Przesyłowych EuRoPol GAZ SA and ment procedure: a job opening is announced on serves as Chairman of the Board of Directors of the website of the Ministry of State Treasury. PGNiG Norway A/S. 3. PGNiG company profile: key results in 2010 15/ 207 Audit Committee The Audit Committee has been a standing committee of the Supervisory Board since November 27th 2008. It consists of at least three members of the Supervisory Board, including at least one member who is independent of the Company and of entities having significant links with PGNiG and who is elected by the General Shareholders Meeting pursuant to PGNiG’s Articles of Association. Such a person has to be competent in accounting and finance. Members of the Audit Committee are appointed by the Supervisory Board. Culture of dialogue Best practices PGNiG is engaged in a broad-based dialogue with The Management Board of PGNiG is strongly comthe market. The Company meets its disclosure mitted to compliance with the principles of corobligations towards shareholders and other stakeporate governance. Since its debut on the stock holders of the capital market by publishing reports exchange in 2005, the Company has followed the on its current operations and financial reports, and recommendations of the Warsaw Stock Exchange by organising press conferences devoted to the contained in “Best Practices for WSE Listed ComCompany’s key projects and strategic objectives. panies”. PGNiG’s corporate governance reports Rules of Procedure for the General Shareholders have been published on the Company’s website Meeting, the Supervisory Board, the Management at www.pgnig.pl in the Corporate Governance Board and the Audit Committee, as well as the Arsection. ticles of Association, are available on the Company website at www.pgnig.pl, in the Investor Relations/Corporate Governance section. More on the risks 16/ 207 3.4. Operations and the value chain PGNiG’s key objective is to ensure reliable and secure supplies o f c l e a n , e n v i r o n m e n t f r i e n d l y e n e r g y. T h e P G N i G G r o u p i s o p e n to new challenges, while remaining faithful to its tradition and striving to retain its customers’ trust. In our business activities, w e w a n t t o b e a r e l i a b l e p a r t n e r, d e v e l o p i n g a n d b u i l d i n g v a l u e i n line with the sustainable growth principles. PGNiG is a company with a long-standing tradition, enjoying an established position of the leader of the Polish gas market. Over the many years The overarching strategic objective pursued by of its development, the Company has accumuPGNiG SA is to enhance its shareholder value. In its lated valuable assets and now controls a number efforts to achieve this objective, in June 2011 the of segments of the energy market (natural gas Company adopted 18 strategic objectives under The following main strategic objectives make up production, storage, sale and distribution), which the “Updated Strategy for the PGNiG Group until the PGNiG Group’s vision: to become, by 2015, provides a solid foundation for PGNiG’s further 2015”, pursued within six components of the value a modern and efficiently-managed organisation growth and steady value increase. chain: controlling almost the entire value chain in the gas sector, and holding assets in the fuel and power sectors. The attainment of those strategic objectives will largely rely on activities concentrating in three areas: 1 2 3 4 5 6 1) hydrocarbon exploration and production undertaken domestically and abroad, to ensure access to new oil and gas reserves; 2) the power sector, focusing on the development of gas-fired power generation in Poland; Exploration Wholesale/ Storage Distribution Sales New Business 3) management of the Company’s natural gas and Trading Areas portfolio and activities on the European gas Production trading market. 3. PGNiG company profile: key results in 2010 17/ 207 The PGNiG Group’s value chain Direct customers Storage Wholesale/ Trading Exploration and Retail Production customers (households) Sales Distribution Industrial customers New Business Areas 3. PGNiG company profile: key results in 2010 18/ 207 •• Increasing the annual international production As part of the exploration work and surveys, of natural gas to 1.5 billion – 2.0 billion cubic PGNiG carried out almost 50 kilometres of drilling, metres and crude oil to 0.6 million – 1.0 million acquired 2.9 thousand kilometres of 2D seismic tonnes in the key regions; and increasing the and nearly 900 square kilometres of 3D seismic in international reserves of natural gas to 18.0 bilPoland and abroad. The development of the Skarv lion – 22.0 billion cubic metres and crude oil to field on the Norwegian Continental Shelf is cur7.5 million – 9.5 million tonnes. rently the largest and most advanced of the Com•• Developing capabilities in the international offpany’s international exploration and production shore exploration and production, and in the projects. Production from the Skarv field is schedexploration and production of unconventional uled to be launched in the second half of 2011, Exploration and Production gas, introducing new systems of fees and doubling the annual production of crude oil, which charges for work performed by the service currently totals 0.5 million tonnes. Access to own reserves is a key to success. For this companies (including the daily rate system), reason, PGNiG is developing its exploration and and investigating the feasibility of enhancing In Poland, PGNiG SA currently holds 15 licenses production business both in Poland and abroad. crude oil and gas production with the use of covering areas where shale gas has been or will The updated strategy sets the following strategic CO2 injections. be explored and appraised. The licences cover objectives: an area stretching from the Pomerania region to •• to develop the exploration and production Our achievements to-date the Mazovia and Lublin regions, to the Rzeszów business in Poland; region. Furthermore, the Company holds several •• to develop the international E&P business foThe majority of tasks performed in 2010 focused licenses covering areas with tight gas potential, cused on key regions; on the development of new fields and enhanceprimarily in Greater Poland. •• to enhance capabilities and optimise activities ment of recovery from producing fields. The most in the Exploration and Production Business. important one was the LMG project consisting in In July 2010, the first test well (Markowola-1) was the development of the Lubiatów, Międzychód drilled in the Lublin region with a view to explorActions taken to pursue these objectives include: and Grotów crude oil and natural gas fields, on ing shale gas. PGNiG carried out Poland’s first two •• Increasing domestic production of natural gas which the Company spent over PLN 400m in 2010. hydraulic fracturing procedures. The second well to about 4.5 billion cubic metres and crude oil Other significant projects implemented under this (Lubocino-1) was drilled in the Pomerania region, to about 1.0 million tonnes; developing exploobjective included the construction of a denitridnear Wejherowo. Drilling of the well with a total ration and production from deep geological ing plant in Grodzisk Wielkopolski (completed depth of 3.5 kilometres was completed in March formations and non-structural traps; mainin 2010), including connection of wells, as well 2011. The drilled well revealed promising gas flows taining the leading position among holders of as development of fields in Środa Wielkopolska, in silurian shales, which is to be analysed in the licenses for unconventional gas exploration in Rudka, Rylowa-Rajsko, Wola Różaniecka and Góra coming months. The Company has also been carPoland; and maintaining the reserves sustainRopczycka. rying out study and design work in other license ability index at no less than 1.1. areas. Back to the value chain 3. PGNiG company profile: key results in 2010 19/ 207 Our achievements to-date With a view to securing an appropriate structure of import contracts, in June 2009 PGNiG signed an agreement with Qatargas Operating Company for the sale and delivery of LNG from Qatar to the LNG terminal in Świnoujście. Under the agreement, Wholesale/Trading starting from 2014, Qatargas will be delivering to PGNiG 1 million tonnes of LNG a year for a period In order to accommodate domestic demand for of 20 years. natural gas, the PGNiG Group produces gas from its own reserves and purchases gas abroad. The In October 2010, following a long round of negoGroup’s own production covers around 30% of tiations, PGNiG and Gazprom Export executed an total demand, with the balance covered by imActions taken to pursue the objectives include: annex to the Yamal Contract, whereby the anports, mainly from countries east of Poland (with •• using spare capacities of the LNG terminal, nual volume of natural gas supplies to Poland in Gazprom Export being the largest supplier). In an reserving capacities at the Lasów interconnec2010 – 2022 was increased by approximately 2 bileffort to ensure uninterrupted and secure supplies tor and capacities potentially available in the lion cubic metres and the ban on gas re-export of natural gas, the updated strategy sets the folvirtual reverse flow on the Yamal pipeline; to third-party countries was lifted. The annex lowing strategic objectives: •• renegotiating long-term contracts, increasalso introduces a preference price in the period •• to maximise the use of existing infrastructure ing their flexibility and changing the purchase 2010 – 2014 for the quantities of gas offtaken in a and to secure sufficient capacities; portfolio structure by increasing the share of given year above the contracted Minimum Annual •• to increase flexibility of natural gas supplies; volumes purchased under short-term contracts Quantities. •• to develop domestic/international multi-comto 15%; modity trading and international sales. •• creating the Portfolio Management and Risk Then, in December 2010, PGNiG established POGC Management functions within PGNiG, as well Trading GmbH of Munich, Germany, through as launching oil, gas, electricity and emiswhich it intends to conduct international trading sion certificate trading, and launching sales to in natural gas and crude oil. Through the newlyindustrial customers on the German market at established company, PGNiG intends to become the level of 0.5 billion – 0.7 billion cubic metres. fully involved in gas trading on the German market Moreover, efforts are being made to combine starting from 2012, using its own gas from Norgas and electricity trading within one entity way. Subsequently, POGC Trading may expand its and to develop a concept for the use of oil and operations to enter the Dutch or even the British gas volumes produced as part of international markets. cooperation. Back to the value chain 3. PGNiG company profile: key results in 2010 20/ 207 Actions taken to pursue these objectives include: Also in November 2008, the process of formal and •• increasing the storage capacities by approxilegal separation of the Storage System Operator mately 1.4 billion cubic metres, to a total of was completed. Under a decision of December 31st approximately 3.0 billion cubic metres, as well 2008, the President of the Energy Regulatory Ofas securing EU funds to finance the projects; fice (URE) appointed PGNiG as the Storage System •• establishing an internal organisational strucOperator. In November 2010, Operator Systemu ture for the separated Storage System OperaMagazynowania Sp. z o.o. was established to tor and executing service agreements with the ensure compliance with the requirements of DirecStorage PGNiG Group; tive 2009/73/EC with respect to legal separation of •• maintaining the pre-tax WACC at 8% – 10% and gaseous fuel storage from other types of business The storage business plays a key role in stabilising maximising sales of storage services. conducted by a vertically integrated gas utility. the volatile demand for natural gas and ensuring secure gas supplies to our customers. Given the Our achievements to-date In November 2009, the Daszewo underground gas development of the market and the need to harstorage facility – a new facility and Poland’s first monise the storage capacities with the legal reIn 2010, over 60% of all funds allocated to the capacity for storage of nitrogen-rich gas – came quirements, PGNiG is involved in projects designed construction and expansion of high-methane online. The working capacity of the Daszewo facilto expand the existing and construct new undergas storage facilities were spent to extend the ity is 30 million cubic metres. The construction of ground gas storage facilities. By 2015, the planned Wierzchowice facility, the largest natural gas storthe Bonikowo underground gas storage facility for expansion projects are expected to increase our age site in Poland. In November 2008, a contract nitrogen-rich gas was also completed in 2010. Its storage capacities to approximately 3 billion cubic for extension of the Wierzchowice underground capacity amounts to 200 million cubic metres. metres. gas storage facility from its current capacity of 0.575 billion cubic metres to 1.2 billion cubic meThe updated strategy sets the following stratetres was executed with a consortium led by PBG. gic objectives relating to the storage capacity The contract value is about PLN 1.1bn. More imexpansion: portantly, in 2010 the European Commission ap•• to ensure sufficient storage capacities; proved PGNiG SA’s application for financial support •• to separate Storage System Operator activities and awarded co-financing for four underground and transfer them to a new entity; gas storage projects in Poland for a total amount •• to maintain the profitability of the Storage of PLN 673.4m, including PLN 503.6m for the WierBusiness following the launch of new underzchowice facility. ground gas storage facilities. Back to the value chain 3. PGNiG company profile: key results in 2010 21/ 207 Distribution Our achievements to-date Distribution has an important role to play in the Actions taken to pursue these objectives include: In 2010, approximately a quarter of the capital building of the PGNiG Group’s value. The updated •• increasing the regulatory value of assets apexpenditure incurred in the distribution segment strategy provides for the following strategic objecproved by the Energy Regulatory Office and was allocated to development of the distribution tives relating to the distribution business: closing the cost gap in the tariff; network. As a result, in 2010 the length of the net•• to improve the profitability of the Distribution •• implementing the strategic procurement work was extended by approximately 1500 kiloBusiness; functions at the distribution companies, estabmetres. The distribution companies carried out a •• to optimise costs and functions; lishing a shared services centre for the distrinumber of projects involving construction of new •• to optimise development of the distribution bution companies and optimising network/ connections, upgrade and replacement of cast iron network. improving efficiency; pipes and procurement of new metering systems. •• establishing uniform rules for the distribuIn 2010, the segment’s expenditure on the nettion network development (including ten-year work accounted for 80% of the aggregate capital investment plans), streamlining the legally expenditure. permitted platform of communicating demand generated by customers and the Sales Business, and launching a pilot programme to assess the feasibility of implementing a smart meter reading system. Back to the value chain 3. PGNiG company profile: key results in 2010 22/ 207 Our achievements to-date Since 2007, the PGNiG Group has been gradually increasing its sales of natural gas. The only exception was 2009, when due to the economic slowdown the amount of gas purchased by industrial customers dropped by 8% relative to 2008. In 2010, the Group managed to compensate for this Sales loss with the Company’s highest ever sales reaching 14.4 billion cubic metres. To meet the growing As part of its trading business, PGNiG satisfies Actions taken to pursue these objectives include: demand for gas, in October 2010 the Company domestic demand for gaseous fuel through trans•• developing new products and product ranges, executed an annex to the Yamal Contract with actions involving purchase/sale of natural gas. improving customer service, winning new Gazprom Export, whereby the maximum annual Natural gas is sold to both retail customers (housecustomers both within and outside of the gas volumes of gas supplies to Poland were increased holds) and the industrial sector. Given the dynamic transmission network’s geographical coverage, by approximately 2 billion cubic metres. changes in the legal and business environments, entering the electricity market by approaching the PGNiG Group takes various steps in the gas small and medium-sized enterprises and busiPGNiG Group has also taken first steps to extend trading area to maintain its leading position on the ness customers with a dual-fuel offering (the its product offering by expanding the CNG market liberalised Polish market. „gas plus electricity” package); and increasing the LNG output. This is particularly •• developing and implementing actions supportimportant on the Polish market, where trade in, The updated strategy provides for the following ing deregulation of the natural gas market, transmission and distribution of natural gas are strategic objectives relating to the sales business: preparing PGNiG for new competition on the regulated businesses. Among the investment pro•• to maintain the leading position on the Polish Polish market. jects executed in 2010 by the Gas Trading Divisions market; was the construction of a CNG station, modernisa•• to improve operating efficiency. tion of boiler rooms and buildings, as well as other projects implemented to serve the needs of the 23 gas sales units. Back to the value chain 3. PGNiG company profile: key results in 2010 23/ 207 Our achievements to-date In November 2009, the General Shareholders Meeting of PGNiG resolved to establish PGNiG Energia. The new company will implement projects related to the transformation of the Group into an energy conglomerate. PGNiG Energia will be engaged in the construction of power-generation units, investment in gas-powered cogeneration New Business Areas plants and pilot biogas projects. The most important project currently carried out by PGNiG EnerAs new growth opportunities for PGNiG emerge, •• developing gas-fired generation projects in gia is the construction of a CCGT plant in Stalowa we take steps to expand the scope and scale of cooperation with Polish and foreign partners, Wola. The project was initiated with the execution our operations through strategic alliances and – using off-system gas to generate electricity in of a letter of intent between Tauron Polska Energia following appropriate analyses – mergers and the modular technology, as well as offering and PGNiG on November 20th 2008. The execution acquisitions in the following sub-sectors: power outsourcing services for the corporate agreement was signed on May 7th 2010, while the •• power generation, sector; agreement on the operation of Elektrociepłownia •• heat generation, •• preparing and implementing a concept for: Stalowa Wola, agreement for the sale of electric•• crude oil. disposal of certain PGNiG Group companies, ity and agreement for the supply of gaseous fuel operational optimising of the Group compawere executed on March 11th 2011. Accordingly, the updated strategy sets the follownies with strong growth potential, optimising ing strategic objectives for the new business areas: of intra-Group purchases, as well as prepar•• to develop the power sector; ing and implementing a Voluntary Termination •• to reorganise the PGNiG Group; scheme; •• to enhance the efficiency of PGNiG as a pro•• preparing an incentive scheme for members of ject-oriented organisation; project teams, strengthening the management •• to review options for optimising logistics of large investment and M&A projects and eninfrastructure. hancing research capabilities; •• developing a concept for the sale of domestiActions taken to pursue these objectives include: cally produced crude oil and analysis of the feasibility of infrastructural projects aimed to further diversify the sources of supplies. Back to the value chain 24/ 207 4. O  ur approach to sustainable development 4.1. The Group’s stakeholders Owing to its size and reach, the Group has a wide process, the Group looks for such solutions that array of stakeholders. The nature of the busiwould benefit all its stakeholder groups, taking ness of our branches and subsidiaries, as well as into account both the economic and social aspects. their position within the value chain, determine That approach is driven by the awareness that the composition of their respective stakeholder sustainable development is only possible if there is groups. At different stages of the value chain, our mutual understanding between the Group and its impact on and relations with stakeholders vary, as stakeholders, and if we recognise and try to undo the specific commitments towards them. The derstand one another’s needs and expectations. PGNiG Group strives to conduct its business responsibly, with due regard to the role of social dialogue. Throughout the business decision-making 4. Our approach to sustainable development 25/ 207 Stakeholders Method of dialogue Employees – current and retired Public consultations, Employee Council, the system of communicators (employees responsible for the internal communication process), daily electronic newsletter, internal corporate portal, staff surveys, web chats with representatives of the Management Board, occasional events, trips for retired employees Customers Satisfaction surveys, helpline, website, Customer Service Offices, dedicated business consultants Operators as customers (E) Transmission System Operator (S) Customers for distribution services (D) Local communities Public consultations, activities of the PGNiG Foundation and donation fund, direct interaction with local authorities and organisations Business partners Dedicated business consultants, direct meetings, conferences, trade declarations, involvement in worldwide humanitarian relief efforts, in Poland – through the PGNiG Foundation and donation fund NGOs Social organisations Suppliers Evaluation of partnership, support for local development Suppliers of services and equipment (P) Research institutes, universities and other Support for vocational education at all levels, conferences, the PGNiG Foundation’s scholarship scheme, techschools nical support for investment projects Consultancies and research institutions (P, S) State administration and market regulator Consultations, joint initiatives, such as conferences and workshops European Commission (S) Shareholders and investors Meetings with asset managers, participation in roadshows and foreign conferences for investors, dedicated newsletter, current and periodic reports Media Press articles, interviews, thematic inserts Legend: E – exploration P – production S – storage D – distribution 4. Our approach to sustainable development 26/ 207 Another example of stakeholder cooperation is the complex network of interconnections within the gas production segment. The PGNiG Sanok and Zielona Góra Branches produce crude oil and natural gas. These activities involve a significant The above stakeholder groups were selected on environmental impact, as well as cooperation with the basis of the Group companies’ and branches’ the local communities. Therefore, it is crucial for experience. Some organisational units collaborate the immediate and broader environment of the with selected groups of stakeholders, as shown oil and gas production facilities that they operate in the table. Taking their needs into account and in an environmentally friendly manner. Modern communicating with them is also part of the risk facilities are often located in the middle of a foremanagement process. sted area, equipped with state-of-the-art process monitoring systems, and built with the use of cutFor example, stakeholder relations within the ting-edge technologies. In this area, suppliers of exploration area are based on a long chain of equipment and customers play an important role. mutual connections, although the key stakeholTheir expectations and requirements concerning der group in that area are operators to which product quality, flexibility, timely supplies, as well Corporate citizenship and lobbying policy the Group companies offer their services. At the as maintenance of high cooperation standards, are PGNiG Group, both the owner and its upstream a key priority for the Branches. Cooperation with In order to conduct our business effectively, we companies (POGC Libya or PGNiG Norway AS) are the local communities entails frequent public conshare our knowledge with the market and lawoperators. sultations, but also participation in various sports -makers in the process of public consultations. This and cultural events taking place in a given region. facilitates our own operations and helps us better The mutual relations consist in the provision of prepare for the coming changes. seismic, geophysical and drilling services to domestic and foreign operators. In order to meet the conditions for cooperation with an operator, the companies have to interact with public administration bodies, which issue permits for field work and monitor investment projects for their compliance with environmental criteria and other requirements; offer equipment that will enable failure-free execution of work in compliance with the environmental regulations and create a safe work environment in accordance with QHSE (Quality, Health, Safety, Environment) standards. 4. Our approach to sustainable development 27/ 207 In line with this policy, in 2010 PGNiG SA took active part in public consultations on the Act on Lobbying Activities in the Legislative Process of July 7th 2005 (Dz. U. of September 6th 2005), both at the level of Polish and EU regulations, by reviewing the relevant laws and, in the case of comments or doubts concerning their wording, submitting proposals for amendments to some of their proviIn addition, PGNiG expressed interest in the work sions. In particular, proposals were submitted with on draft implementing measures to the above and regard to the following 10 laws, which are key to other legal regulations, including: the Company’s operations: 1) draft Regulation of the Minister of Economy 1) Energy Law, on detailed conditions of operation of the gas 2) Geological and Mining Law, system, 3) Energy Efficiency Act, 2) draft Regulation on detailed rules for determi4) Act on Stocks of Crude Oil, Petroleum Products ning and calculating tariffs for gaseous fuels and Natural Gas, as well as on the Rules to be and on settlements in gaseous fuels trading, Followed in the Event of a Threat to National 3) draft assumptions to the legislation introdu5) Regulation of the Minister of the Environment Fuel Security or a Disruption on the Petroleum cing a protection system for socially vulnerable on benchmark values for certain substances in Market, customers, the air, dated January 26th 2010, 5) draft Regulation of the European Parliament 4) draft regulations relating to environmental 6) Regulation of the Council of Ministers on proand of the Council concerning measures to protection: Regulation of the Minister of the jects that may materially impact the environsafeguard security of gas supply and repealing Environment regarding cases where gas or ment, dated November 9th 2010, Directive 2004/67/EC, dust emissions into the air do not require a 7) Regulation of the Minister of Economy on tech6) amendments to the Act on Disclosure of Inforpermit, dated July 2nd 2010, nical conditions applicable to gas networks and mation on the Environment and Environment their location. Protection, the General Public’s Involvement in Environment Protection and Environmental PGNiG’s representatives have also worked in a Impact Studies, dated October 3rd 2008, number of working teams responsible for deve7) amendments to the Environmental Protection loping Poland’s energy policy framework, and Law, inter-ministerial teams responsible, among other 8) Act on the Greenhouse Gas Emissions Managethings, for the gas and energy market deregulament System, tion programme. Moreover, PGNiG’s representa9) Act on Transmission Corridors, tives were engaged in the work on the Polish Gas 10) Act on Strategic Reserves. Law, drafted under the auspices of the Chamber of Natural Gas Industry. 4. Our approach to sustainable development 28/ 207 At present, PGNiG’s representatives are engaged in the work on the draft Polish Petroleum Law, which, if enacted, will significantly facilitate our operations. •• undertook efforts leading to Mr Radosław DuConcurrently, public consultations are under way dziński, Vice-President of PGNiG’s Management to elicit opinions on the draft regulations of the Board, being invited to a meeting with MEPs In addition, in 2010 PGNiG SA (the Environmental Ministry of the Environment to the Geological and in Brussels in February 2010, and delivered a Protection Office) submitted a number of requests Mining Law of June 9th 2011. speech on the SoS regulation at a mini-hearing for changes in existing regulations, including: session organised by the ITRE committee, •• request of November 23rd 2010 to the Chief We also want to successfully represent the inte•• arranged the participation of Mr Sławomir Conservation Officer, Undersecretary of State rests of PGNiG SA and the Polish energy sector Hinc’s, Vice-President of PGNiG’s Management at the Ministry of the Environment, concerin dealings with EU institutions and international Board, in a meeting between two EU Commisning simplification of the rules for temporary organisations. Active in this area is PGNiG’s represioners and representatives of the gas industry exclusion of forest land from forestry producsentative office in Brussels, which: as part of the EUROGAS Executive Committee, tion (similar request of January 28th 2011 was •• has submitted 44 amendments to the security •• arranged and attended a meeting of Mr Michał sent to the Minister of Agriculture and Rural of gas supplies (SoS) regulation to MEPs worSzubski, President of PGNiG’s Management Development), king on the European Parliament Committee Board, with Commissioner Günther Oettinger •• request of December 27th 2010 to the General on Industry, Research and Energy, concerning negotiations of gas supplies to PoDirector for Environmental Protection, con•• cooperated, from April to June, with the worland and an agreement between the Polish and cerning amendments to the Regulation of the king group of EUROGAS on amendments to French governments, Council of Ministers on projects that may mateSoS, as part of negotiations between the Coun•• arranged a meeting in Brussels for reprerially impact the environment, dated November cil of Europe, the European Parliament and the sentatives of PGNiG SA aimed at exchanging 9th 2010 (Dz. U. No. 213, item 1397), European Commission, experience related to their work and lobbying •• request to competent authorities regarding •• regularly participated in meetings of the Gas activities, explanation of the regulations on PRTR (PolluCoordination Group, Security of Supplies Task •• cooperated with the Economic and Trade Sectant Release and Transfer Register) reporting, Force, EUROGAS Strategic Committee, GSE, tion of the Permanent Representative Office of the act on production waste, and gas and dust •• actively participated in the preparation, organithe Republic of Poland for the European Union emissions into the air, sation, and conduct of EUROGAS General Meand participated in meetings organised by the •• involvement in the work of a dedicated team etings in Warsaw, Polish Embassy. of the Chief Inspectorate of Environmental Protection on amendments to the Seveso III Directive regarding exclusion of underground gas storage facilities from being subject to F or more information on stakeholder the provisions pertaining to major industrial relations, see the “Communication and accidents. marketing” section (site 130). 4. Our approach to sustainable development 29/ 207 4.2. Sustainable Development and An integral part of the Strategy is the implementaResponsible Business Strategy tion plan, which defines the operational goals corresponding to each strategic objective. Apart from defining the operational goals and steps to achieve them, the plan also specifies success measures and implementation schedules, which enable the Group to consistently gauge the implementation progress, as well as monitor the business owners of individual goals. An additional item of the plan is a list of internal and external stakeholders for the respective operational goals. The identification of stakeholder groups is meant to better The Group’s Sustainable Development and Responaccommodate their needs in the implementation sible Business Strategy was formally approved process. by the Management Board of PGNiG in July 2009. Contributors to the strategy were employees from The respective sections of this CSR Report present all operational areas of the PGNiG Head Office, Sustainable development and responsible business efforts taken in the areas defined by the six pillars as well as from branches and subsidiaries of the covers all links of the PGNiG Group’s value chain of the Sustainable Development and Responsible PGNiG Group. The Sustainable Development and and applies to all four areas of sustainable develBusiness Strategy from the perspective of parResponsible Business Strategy of the PGNiG Group opment, resting on the six strategic pillars: ent company PGNiG and all the Group companies, is complementary to the Group’s business stratwhich pursue their own substrategies. egy. The main objective we have embarked on by formulating our sustainable development mission is to be an active player on the Polish energy market, who acts responsibly and takes into consid1 2 3 4 5 6 eration the expectations and needs of its various stakeholder groups and the natural environment. Enhanced satisEfficient and Pursuing busiCreating a safe Consistent, Seeking new faction of existpartnershipness in a reand friendly credible and business exThe Group’s CSR strategy addresses a range of ing customers based cosponsible way workplace; efficient compansion opchallenges posed by our environment, and the and acquisition operation and while caring munication and portunities in actions we plan result both from the needs of our of new customdialogue with for the natural marketing; line with the stakeholders and from best practices in place at ers through social and busienvironment; principle of the Group, in particular in the area of environmenimproved cusness partners; sustainable tal protection and social involvement. tomer care; development. 4. Our approach to sustainable development 30/ 207 4.3. Strategy management This year’s CSR Report has been prepared by the CSR Facilitators, who have worked in teams of several people each on one of the six strategic pillars. For the first time, the Facilitators not only gathered and sent It is worth noting that in 2010 the strategic objecdata to the Head Office, but also wrote the respectives were incorporated into the evaluation of senSoon after the formal adoption of the Strategy, tive sections of this Report. This demanding but ior management staff by including them in the ana dedicated structure was established to coordihighly educational task brought a new quality into nual MBO targets, and thus were reflected in the nate the processes related to its implementation our work, allowing us to better understand the objectives and targets set for individual employees at the Group. Within its framework, Members of specific nature of the various business areas in and teams. All the above testifies to the strategic the Management Board, along with the President, which the PGNiG Group operates. I hope it will involvement and determination of the Group as it act as Project Sponsors. Another tier is the Steerbecome our standard practice – all the more so implements the Strategy. ing Committee, composed of the business owners because such an exercise draws on the Facilitators’ of strategic objectives. The Management Board’s competencies in the field of corporate social reIn 2010, the Group companies started to conduct Proxy for the Strategy is responsible for coordinatsponsibility. In 2010, twenty-one CSR Facilitators their businesses pursuing their own Sustainable ing and monitoring the Sustainable Development completed their postgraduate programme in Development and Responsible Business Strategies. and Responsible Business Strategy implementaresponsible business at Kozminski University of Also, at the beginning of 2011, their first strategy tion at PGNiG subsidiaries and branches, and for Warsaw. This is enormous potential,” says Marzeimplementation reports came in, indicating the internal and external communication of actions na Strzelczak, Management Board’s Proxy for number of tasks completed, executed according on the sustainable development and responsible Sustainable Development and Responsible Business to schedule and delayed in particular pillars. The business agenda. The same role at the level of the Strategy. information was submitted to the Management Group’s branches and subsidiaries is performed by Board in the form of a summary report, which will regional CSR Facilitators. The group consists of a form the basis for decisions on further steps as few dozen persons for whom sustainable developpart of the Strategy implementation. ment is the primary job responsibility. The Proxy is also responsible for monitoring progress with the Moreover, last year saw the launch of the Strategy implementation of the strategic and operational Repository, a portal dedicated to CSR issues. With goals, and for reporting actions scheduled for a a calendar of events, a library of documents and given period to the Management Board. The perother features, it is a website where CSR Facilison also collects data from across the Group and tators may share information within the PGNiG prepares a CSR Report together with the regional Group. Facilitators. 4. Our approach to sustainable development 31/ 207 4.4. Information about this Report •• Each section dealing with the respective strategic pillars starts with a summary, presented in graphic form, of actions initiated under a given strategic objective by all the Group members implementing their own strategies. The graphs show the total number of tasks completed, executed according to schedule and delayed at •• Figures quoted in this Report relate to 2010, all the Group companies. while some of the developments described here took place in the first half of 2011. •• Quantitative measures presented in this Report do not take into account data of the following “Responsible Energy 2010” is the third CSR report •• Quantitative measures presented in this ReGroup members: Oil Tech International – F.Z.E., prepared by the PGNiG Group. This Report folport rely on data of parent undertaking PGNiG PGNiG Norway AS, POGC – Libya B.V., Powiśle lows the Global Reporting Initiative guidelines and SA, as well as 23 gas sales units, all domestic Park Sp. z o.o., Geovita Sp. z o.o., PGNiG EnIPIECA indicators. Furthermore, it is based on the branches of PGNiG, and most of PGNiG’s wholergia S.A., POGC Trading GmbH, PGNiG Techguidelines and indicators following from the Globly-owned subsidiaries, as demonstrated by nologie Sp. z o.o., ZRUG Sp. z o.o. (Pogórska al Compact and ISO 26000, which were also inthe diagram (page 11) in the “Structure of the Wola), Operator Systemu Magazynowania Sp. corporated into the Code of Responsible Business PGNiG Group” section z o.o., Polskie Elektrownie Gazowe Sp. z o.o., signed by PGNiG and drawn up under the Coalition NYSAGAZ Sp. z o.o., BUD-GAZ P.P.U.H. Sp. for Responsible Business (for more information on z o.o., Geofizyka Toruń Kish Ltd (Rial), Zakład the Coalition, see the „Coalition for Responsible Gospodarki Mieszkaniowej Sp. z o.o (Piła), Business (page 151)” section). Biogazownia Ostrowiec Sp. z o.o., CHEMKOP Sp. z o.o. Kraków, GAZ Sp. z o.o. and GAZ ME•• This Report presents our pursuit of the objecDIA Sp. z o.o. (Wołomin). tives defined in the Sustainable Development and Responsible Business Strategy in the period from January 2010 to June 2011, using data and/or descriptions of the practices, rules or procedures. 4. Our approach to sustainable development 32/ 207 •• The printed Introduction to the CSR Report 2010 contains only selected information on the PGNiG Group’s operations relevant from the perspective of sustainable development and responsible business. The printed version includes a DVD, where you will find the full •• This Report has not been reviewed externally, 2010 CSR Report and this year’s Annual Report, although selected indicators and presented as well as educational materials presenting financial data are consistent with the PGNiG our activities. The full information is also availGroup’s Annual Report and Financial Stateable at www.odpowiedzialna-energia.pl and ments for 2010 and, as such, were verified by www.pgnig.pl in the Responsible Business the auditors. Notwithstanding, independent section. audits were also conducted at PGNiG subsidiaries, including environmental protection system •• In order to understand your expectaaudits. tions regarding reporting and corporate social activities of the PGNiG Group, we •• The changes that took place within the Group have prepared a questionnaire, which is in the last year do not affect the comparabilenclosed with this Report and made availity of data included in the reports for previable at the above web addresses. Please ous years. Information on the changes in the fill in the questionnaire and contact us at Group’s structure has been presented in the informacje@odpowiedzialna-energia.pl “Structure of the PGNiG Group” section. There is no need to adjust data included in the reports for previous years. •• All data in this Report were accurately collected directly from the entities described in this document, and from persons managing the respective areas of the PGNiG Group’s operations. 4. Our approach to sustainable development 33/ 207 2010 January April The Laurel of Responsibility goes to PGNiG Declaration on the esSA under the “Promotablishment of the Hetion of Corporate Social lium Cryogenics Centre Responsibility Standards at PGNiG’s Odolanów Among Businesses” Branch. The Centre is a project, developed by joint project developed Lewiatan, Deloitte and together with the Warthe Solidarność Trade May saw University of TechUnion. Top position in the 24/7 nology, the Wrocław February Transparent CSR Leader University of TechnoloStrategic workshop Top position in the Polranking by Braun & gy, and the Department on socially vulnerable ish Companies listing, Partners CSR. The rank4.5. Key events of Molecular Physics of the Polish Academy of Sciences. The purpose customers attended by experts from the Energy Regulatory Office top position in the Fuels and Energy Sector listing of the Responsible ing lists 25 companies with the highest 2008 profit. is to establish an insti(URE) and the Ministry Companies Ranking tute with a research of Labour. 2010 by Dziennik Gazeta and business agenda, to Prawna. be a benchmark exGiven the planned ample of collaboration introduction of new Agreement on cobetween industry and energy efficiency laws, operation in the area science. PGNiG takes steps to of ethics promotion prepare the Company in business between for the new efficiency Pomorska Spółka Gameasures. zownictwa and the Gdańsk University of Technology. 4. Our approach to sustainable development 34/ 207 2010 June 2nd Responsible Energy Conference – three more companies: Fortum Power October and Heat Polska, LOTOS On October 13th, SigGroup and Polskie Sieci natories of the DecElektroenergetyczne Oplaration on SustainDecember erator, sign the Declaraable Development in Distinction in a conOffice, Branches, Gas May/June tion on Sustainable Dethe Energy Sector in test for the best CSR Sales Units and Cus“Marketing in the velopment in the Energy Poland, a representareport. tomer Service Offices. gas industry: In Sector in Poland. tive of the Ministry For the first time in the compliance with the of Economy and a Another meeting of Group’s history, the sustainable develCompletion by 21 Rejournalist from the Signatories of the survey is carried out opment principles” gional CSR Facilitators of ThinkTank magazine Declaration on Susamong such a large conference. PGNiG’s the post-graduate promet in the Forest tainable Development number of employees representatives gramme in responsible District of Pińsk to in the Energy Sector at once. share lessons learnt business at the Koźminski plant 1,500 pine sapin Poland. The Signafrom the developUniversity. lings together with the tories gather to plan a Representatives of ment of the SustainAeris Futuro Foundanew joint project with PGNiG’s subsidiaries and able Development PGNiG joins the group tion. Afterwards, they educational value and foreign branches parand Responsible of founding members attended a workshop PR potential, relating ticipate in a workshop Business Strategy at of the LBG (London where new ideas for to sustainable develon the Group’s Sustainthe Group. Benchmarking Group) joint initiatives were opment in the energy able Development and Poland: BZ WBK, Danone, discussed. Monika sector. Responsible Business GlaxoSmithKline, Ikea and Foussereau and Anna Strategy. Żywiec Zdrój. The LBG Gnoińska, acting on A Survey of Employee Model is currently one of behalf of Dalkia PolSatisfaction is conthe world’s best-tested ska S.A., signed the ducted among all methodologies for measDeclaration. employees of PGNiG, uring and reporting the including the Head efficiency of CSR activiPGNiG takes part in ties. Its implementation the Good Practices in Poland is managed by MarketPlace held by CSR Consulting. Responsible Business Forum. 4. Our approach to sustainable development 35/ 207 2011 April For the second time, PGNiG SA is named the most socially responsiJune 3rd Responsible Energy February ble company from the Conference – the DecPolskie Górnictwo Naffuel and energy sector laration on Sustainable towe i Gazownictwo SA in the Ranking of ReDevelopment in the is included in the group sponsible Companies May/June Energy Sector in Poland of companies standing published by the DzienAt the “Marketing in the is signed by CEOs of out for their CSR efforts nik Gazeta Prawna daily. gas industry: corporate another eight compaand clarity with which Another PGNiG subsidisocial responsibility in nies: Energa, PKP Enthey present them on ary is listed among the the gas industry” conergetyka, Dolnośląska their corporate webtop companies from the ference, a representaSpółka Gazownictwa, January sites. The list is based sector Górnośląska tive of PGNiG speaks Górnośląska Spółka In January 2011, the on the BI-NGO 2010 Spółka Gazownictwa May about the evolution of Gazownictwa, Karpacka Warsaw Stock Exchange Index, which evaluranks third in the same PGNiG introduces a CSR, using PGNiG as an Spółka Gazownictwa, for the second time anates how the 500 largcategory. Ethics Officer function, example. Mazowiecka Spółka nounces a list of comest companies listed with key responsibilities Gazownictwa, Pomorpanies included in the by the Rzeczpospolita to ensure adherence to ska Spółka GazownRespect social responsidaily communicate their the principles of ethical ictwa, and Wielkopolska bility index. Once again, CSR efforts over the conduct, strengthen the Spółka Gazownictwa. PGNiG is selected to this Internet. corporate culture based elite group. on the highest ethical Pilot tests of PGNiG’s eIntroduction of Logito – standards and promote passage marketing web an electronic system ethical behaviour at the platform, intended for for handling complaints Company. advisory services and and requests at the e-commerce. Never bePGNiG SA. LOGITO will fore has PGNiG applied improve the document an IT tool this advanced circulation process and to provide comprehenfacilitate reporting, as sive services to retail well as data processing customers. and analysis. 36/ 207 5. Customer PGNiG’s priority is to secure reliable and stable supplies of natural gas to households and industrial customers. In an effort to ensure satisfaction and enhance customer satisfaction, we have been taking steps to develop our offering and streamline the sales process. Our department’s primary focus is customer service. We have one key strategic objective, and that is to continually improve the quality of customer service in order to satisfy our customers. Since gas prices are officially regulated, we regard customer service and its consistent enhancement as our priority task. At present, we are pursuing this goal in a number of ways. We have managed to standardise the procedures for customer service, so that customers throughout Poland are served in the same way. A system for handling complaints has been established, enabling us to monitor incoming complaints and their number. Constant improvement is of course a fixture of our strategy, therefore we make an ongoing effort to train our employees, so they are able to meet the expectations of our customers, the Company, and the market. Artur Bieliński Head of the Gas Trading Department 5. Customer satisfaction 37/ 207 T h r o u g h i t s s i x G a s Tr a d i n g Divisions, PGNiG sells natural Tasks gas to households and industrial customers, and undertakes various activities to actively support the sales process Completed (development of new products, development of tariffs and price lists for off-tariff products and services, and marketing activities, including building strong relations with In terms of sales volumes, PGNiG’s major customers a r e : t h e c h e m i c a l i n d u s t r y, 25 customers). m e t a l l u r g y a n d p o w e r i n d u s t r y. Retail customers (households) were the most numerous group of PGNiG’s customers (around 6.4m), accounting Under way for approximately 97% of all PGNiG’s customers. The share of retail customers in the total volume of sales generated by PGNiG stood at around 30%. Industrial customers accounted 87 for the largest share (about 58%) of the natural gas sales volume. In 2010, around 83 thousand comprehensive agreements for gaseous fuel Delayed supplies were concluded, providing for supplies both from the transmission and distribution systems. 26 5. Customer satisfaction 38/ 207 Effects Objective Objective Objective Objective 2,912 phone calls I II III IV received by the Contact Centre at Zgorzelec Gas Sales Unit in December 2010. To Develop Effective and User-Friendly 5-12 thousand Self-Service Platform pages of electronic invoices generated each month at Szczecin Gas Sales Unit. Customer helpline – 25 thousand Contact Centre Online customer service customers registered (online platform and to the Electronic Electronic Customer Service Customer Service Office) Office at Pomeranian G a s Tr a d i n g D i v i s i o n in December 2010. 600 customers of Upper Silesian Gas Tr a d i n g D i v i s i o n New covered by the methods of Comfort for Business communication scheme in December 2010. Customer service 70% of staff of training for employees Comfort for Customer Service Business Offices at Koszalin Gas Sales Unit received training. 5. Customer satisfaction 39/ 207 Objective Objective Objective Objective I II III IV Effects 1,215 employees of gas trading To Improve Quality of Service divisions completed training in at Customer Service Offices procedures for establishing a gas network connection and changing the connection Availability of conditions. information materials Improvement Shortening the of gas network Uniform visual appearance time of gas connection of Customer Service network connection procedures Offices, review of their in 4 out of 6 locations and functionality Gas Distribution Companies in 2010 vs. 2009. Adoption of the Interior Design Improvement of staff G u i d e l i n e s fo r selection process PGNiG’s Customer Service Offices and Training in customer the Interior Design service quality and Implementation employee conduct C o n c e p t fo r P G N i G ’ s Customer Service Offices in 2010. 5. Customer satisfaction 40/ 207 Objective Objective Objective Objective I II III IV To Raise Customer Awareness and Educate Customers Regarding Use of Gas and Efficient Use of Energy Effects 2,800 children and Educational campaigns for teenagers took part customers focusing on efficient in Pomeranian Gas use of energy (including natural Diversification of customer Tr a d i n g D i v i s i o n ’ s gas) communication channels educational campaigns focusing on natural gas, organised with Municipal Welfare Centre in Gdańsk Publication of gas quality reports b y C M T L a t w w w. Educational meetings pgnig.pl. with the press, and knowledge exchange platform for the media 5. Customer satisfaction 41/ 207 Objective Objective Objective Objective I II III IV Support for Socially Vulnerable Customers Effects Cooperation with local Thanks to the social welfare centres exchange of (MOPS) information with MOPS centres, PGNiG’s customers may obtain aid to pay their past-due gas bills. Special debt collection procedure for Training for socially vulnerable employees of customers. Customer Service Offices related to the Implementation support programme of forecast bills for socially vulnerable for the W1 and W2 customers tariff groups. 5. Customer satisfaction 42/ 207 Objective I Most often, customers indicated the call centre, complaint review and gas grid connection proceTo c r e a t e a n e f f e c t i v e a n d u s e r dures as areas needing improvement. friendly self-service platform The Customer Services Offices owed their high PGNiG has been introducing new tools designed rating primarily to the quality of work of PGNiG’s to support communication with its customers. In employees and the efficiency with which they these efforts, it takes into account the results of solve problems/issues reported by customers. regularly performed surveys. In the 2010 Retail Customer Satisfaction Survey, PGNiG’s services and The PGNiG employees’ expertise, politeness and products received good ratings: the Customer Satinvolvement in a customer’s problem were esisfaction Index (CSI) stood at 64%, while the loyalty pecially highly praised (around 80% of decidedly index, reflecting the percentage of highly satisfied satisfied respondents). A slightly lower rating was customers prone to recommend PGNiG’s services given to the organisation of work at the Customer to their acquaintances, was at 51% (the survey Service Offices (queue management and the reQuite interestingly, almost the same percentcovered a representative sample of n = 1,800 resulting waiting time). Similarly, the availability, age of customers prefer to communicate with spondents). 60% of retail customers declared that number and opening hours of the Offices were the gas supplier directly, by visiting a Customer they were highly satisfied with ­PGNiG’s products not fully satisfactory. Service Office (43%) and contact the supplier via and services, while a mere 1% declared that they the telephone (46%). It is important because the were decidedly not satisfied. The areas rated the telephone communication channel was relatively highest included: poorly assessed by customers, especially in terms •• PGNiG’s product – natural gas – 72% of reof its availability – getting through on the conspondents were decidedly satisfied, gested line and waiting time. With respect to the •• direct contact with a Customer Service Office – call centre, customers expect the scope of mat75% of respondents were decidedly satisfied, ters handled by this channel to be broadened. •• internet communication channel (PGNiG’s The results of the survey lead to a conclusion that website) – 69% of respondents were decidedly the soonest possible introduction of a self-service satisfied. option for PGNiG’s customers would be a major step forward in modernising and streamlining the customer service process, by increasing the availability of services and reducing waiting times. In an effort to meet those needs, PGNiG has been introducing new interactive customer contact channels. The most important efforts in this area are presented below. 5. Customer satisfaction 43/ 207 Objective I Initiatives/Best practices Electronic Customer Service Office (e-BOK) E-BOK is a customer self-service tool launched at the Pomeranian Gas Trading Division in 2008, as a pilot programme at two offices of the Gdańsk Gas Sales Unit. Since its launch, the platform has been continually improved. It was established in Contact Center Comfort for Business response to suggestions from customers who As early as in 2009, the Lower Silesian Gas TradThe Comfort for Business is a scheme implementwanted an opportunity to contact a Customer ing Division launched Contact Centers at two Gas ed by the Upper Silesian Gas Trading Division for Service Office by electronic means, but it has an Sales Units, in cooperation with Gallup. By dialits business, key and strategic customers. Each additional advantage of reducing the front office ling 801-301-801, a customer can obtain informacustomer of the Zabrze Gas Sales Unit consuming staff’s workload. Intensive promotion of e-BOK as tion on their payment balance, bills issued for gas over eight thousand cubic metres of gas annually a secure and innovative customer self-service tool consumed, customer service procedures and gas and holding the Unit’s Customer Card is eligible was run in 2010: 400 thousand leaflets were preprices, as well as report gas meter readings, orto participate in the scheme. Of the total number pared and distributed and a film with instructions der an overpaid amount to be returned, submit of 3,000 customers, approximately 600 joined the how to use e-BOK was made. As a result, the numa complaint, etc. Customer service supported by scheme in 2010. Comfort for Business forms part ber of registered e-BOK users increased from five this communication channel has proved efficient of the MEGAZ system. It enables 24×7 online acthousand at the beginning of 2010 to 25 thousand at two Gas Sales Units, in Wrocław and Wałbrzych, cess to customers’ invoices, payments made, readin December 2010 (i.e. 4% of all customers of the as reflected in material increases in the number ings history and the payment simulation calculator, Pomeranian Gas Trading Division). Owing to the of calls. In 2010, a decision was taken to launch which calculates payments based on input data in new platform, customers can contact the Gas Sales a Contact Center at the Zgorzelec Gas Sales Unit, the form of gas meter readings. Unit directly, without a visit to the Customer Sertoo. The decision was key to the standardisation vice Office, they can report gas meter readings on of customer service at the Division. Over the first a monthly basis and track their gas consumption. month of the Contact Center’s operation at the Zgorzelec Gas Sales Unit, 620 calls were received, in June 2010 – the number rose to 1,773 and in December 2010 – to 2,912. Thus, the assumed success threshold of 1,000 calls was met after the first three months, and by the end of 2010 the total number of calls exceeded that target several times. 5. Customer satisfaction 44/ 207 Objective I PGNiG’s e-passage PGNiG’s e-passage is among the newest customer The e-passage is an innovative channel of customer communication. communication channels deployed by the ComCustomers can use it in two ways: online, or through our employees at pany. It is an Internet portal through which cusCustomer Service Offices. It is one of the modern communication chantomers can arrange all matters connected with nels we have recently launched. the sale of heating equipment, from selection of equipment, to placing an online order. 2010 witIn response to customer expectations, we have developed the e-passage, a modnessed very intensive work to prepare pilot imern website designed to help our customers get in touch with manufacturers plementation of the e-passage at two Gas Sales of gas-fired appliances and take advantage of tailored-made bank products on Units in Lublin and Zabrze. They were launched more favourable terms than those available on the market. Additionally, the webin June 2011. The modern and user-friendly IT site will enable our customers to take advantage of many gas equipment support solution serves as a source of expert advice and services provided by fitters, manufacturers, designers, chimney-sweepers, i.e. all sales channel, intermediating in the sale of gaspartners usually associated with gas services. fired equipment. In the e-passage, a customer can browse through the offerings of major retail vendors of heating equipment, and use the advisory services provided via the portal, related to equipment assembly and servicing. For more information on PGNiG’s e-passage, see the interview with Agnieszka Chmielarz at the end of this section. Agnieszka Chmielarz Trade Marketing Office Director Marketing Department 5. Customer satisfaction 45/ 207 Surveys conducted by PGNiG have shown that E-invoice is considered an attractive settlement method by 35% of customers, in particular by city dwellers aged 20 – 40. By contrast, 27% of customers are not interested in the solution. 23% of respondents gave an affirmative answer to the question whether they would give up paper invoices in Aggregated data from the Gas Trading Divisions favour of electronic ones. However, realistic estirelated to e-learning courses coordinated by the mates indicate that only 10% of customers would Customer Service Standards Office: likely switch over to electronic invoicing. •• procedures for establishing a gas network E-invoice connection and changing the connection condiNew technological solutions and the desire to Tr a i n i n g tions – course completed by 1,215 employees, meet growing expectations of our customers The year 2010 posed new challenges related to •• procedures for execution of comprehensive prompted us to introduce E-invoice as a new the amendments which took effect on April 1st agreements (also via the Internet) – course self-service tool at the Gas Sales Unit in Szczecin. 2010. The Retail Customer Service Model defines completed by 1,210 employees, From September 2009 to the end of 2010, about the rules of cooperation of PGNiG and the Gas •• procedure for pre-litigation collection – course 10,000 customers agreed to receive documents Distribution Companies in providing services to completed by 1,030 employees. Other popular in electronic form. As a consequence, each month current and future customers. The major change topics covered by training organised at GTD we issue between 5,000 and 12,000 pages of consisted in updating the comprehensive agreeincluded: difficult customer service, overcomelectronic invoices, and between 300 and 1,000 ments for gaseous fuel supplies. It was necessary ing stress and burnout, effective interpersonal electronic payment reminders, instead of distribto train employees in the new standards, which is communication and teamwork, and socially uting them in paper form. Apart from being cuswhy courses in Retail Customer Service and Provulnerable customer service. tomer and environment-friendly, this innovative fessional Customer Service were organised. For system offers a significant economic advantage instance, at the Gas Sales Unit in Koszalin 70% of 2010 was also a year of concentrated efforts on – on average, the unit cost of document preparaCustomer Service Office employees received trainthe Business Customer Service Model, aimed at tion and delivery is reduced by PLN 1.30. The new ing in Professional Customer Service. standardising procedures across the Gas Trading electronic documents have been well received by Divisions, that is 23 Gas Sales Units. Clearly and customers. Complaints are very rare and serve as coherently formulated rules will accelerate the a source of valuable information which helps us process of signing and updating agreements, and improve that payment system, tailoring it to cuswill be essential for proper debt collection. tomers’ expectations. Information on the portal is available at www.gazownia.szczecin.pl, while the electronic invoicing system itself is available at https:\\faktura.gazownia.szczecin.pl 5. Customer satisfaction 46/ 207 Objective II Improving the quality of service at Customer Service Offices Customer care and long-term, satisfying customer relations require the delivery of a high standard of service by each of our several hundred offices throughout Poland. To meet this objective, we undertake activities related to improving the service, its organisation, as well as communication at several hundred Customer Service Offices in Poland, where we enter into direct contact with customers. Initiatives/Best practices The PGNiG brand The regular “Survey of the PGNiG brand aware43% of respondents admit that PGNiG has extenness and image” shows that more than every fifth sive experience and almost every third Pole (31%) respondent (22%) spontaneously mentions PGNiG considers PGNiG’s employees to be well-qualified when asked to name an energy company. It needs and professional. More than one in four respondto be emphasised that the PGNiG brand recorded a ents describes PGNiG as solid (28%), reliable (27%) material increase in unprompted brand awareness and fast-developing (26%). Finally, every fourth (from 14% in 2009 to 22% in 2010). When shown survey participant (24%) perceives PGNiG as envia list of energy companies, as many as 58% of all ronmentally responsible. Compared with the prerespondents indicated Polskie Górnictwo Naftowe i vious survey, respondents assess the respective Gazownictwo (PGNiG), which also reflects a signifiareas of PGNiG’s operations similarly or slightly cant growth in prompted brand awareness (combetter. However, in two aspects the marks were pared with 46% in 2009). significantly higher in 2010: development rate (4.7 in 2009 vs. 4.9 in 2010) and professionalism of Almost half of respondents (48%) regard PGNiG staff (4.9 in 2009 vs. 5.1 in 2010). as a company playing a significant role in Poland. Only 2% of those surveyed believe the opposite. 5. Customer satisfaction 47/ 207 Objective II Shortening the time of gas network connection Efforts made by the distribution system operators (DSO) are focused on enhancing the efficiency and timeliness of connecting new customers to the gas network, while ensuring the economic viability of the process, as well as quick and reliable customer service. Shortening the time of connection Availability of information is a significant measure of efficiency. However, the materials process does not depend on DSOs only, which is To serve PGNiG’s customers, we have created a sewhy their activities are also focused on changing ries of uniform and coherent information materials certain legal regulations (e.g. the Building Law and used at Customer Service Offices. The advertising the Energy Law). materials support direct customer communication Gas network connection by the front-office personnel. Leaflets are made As recent research shows, the procedure for esDSOs’ efforts have already delivered noticeable available to each customer visiting a Customer Sertablishing a gas network connection is one of benefits. vice Office. We also ensure to display them in the the areas of PGNiG’s operations which attract the same way at all the Group’s offices. The leaflets weakest ratings. While 64% of customers express Summary information on the PGNiG Group’s Gas cover the most topical issues, such as: general satisfaction with the whole process, only Distribution Companies: 1) Natural gas – A few steps to clean energy 33% do not mind the extensive documentation •• Wielkopolska Spółka Gazownictwa (WSG) – the 2) Natural gas – Vademecum required. The lead time for the construction of a period of time necessary for establishing a gas 3) Natural gas – Fuel of the 21st century connecting pipeline is satisfactory for 38% of cusgrid connection was shortened from 243 days 4) Natural gas – Appliances for your home tomers only, while a mere 29% are satisfied with in 2009 to 227 days in 2010 for I group cus5) Natural gas – Universal fuel the costs of the connection process (with 13% of tomers, from 228 to 206 days, respectively, for 6) PGNiG – Your gas supplier respondents being definitely dissatisfied). I group customers without extending the gas 7) ABC book – G like gas. network, and from 272 to 226 days, respectively, for II group customers. PGNiG is currently working to give new, uniform •• Mazowiecka Spółka Gazownictwa (MSG) – the visual appearance to its Customer Service Offices, average time of issuing connection conditions taking into account the customer communication was shortened by eight days for customers process. from all groups, while the average time of connection for group B, subgroup I customers was Apart from traditional information materials, shortened by 16 days in 2010 relative to 2009. customers will have access to modern electronic touch screens with information on PGNiG and a connection to the www.pgnig.pl webpage. 5. Customer satisfaction 48/ 207 Objective II •• Karpacka Spółka Gazownictwa – the average time of issuing connection conditions was shortened by three days (14 days in 2009 vs. 11 days in 2010), while the average time of connection was increased by four days (156 days in 2009 vs. 160 days in 2010). •• Pomorska Spółka Gazownictwa (PSG) – the time of connection did not change between Uniform visual appearance 2009 and 2010. of Customer Service Offices, •• Górnośląska Spółka Gazownictwa – the time review of their locations and of connection (from signing an agreement functionality to completing the work) was 196.21 days, as As PGNiG provides services to thousands of cusInterior Design Guidelines for PGNiG’s Customer compared with 240 days in 2009. tomers every day, responsible management of the Service Offices and the Interior Design Implemen•• Dolnośląska Spółka Gazownictwa Sp. z o.o. Customer Service Offices is a must. PGNiG’s custation Concept for PGNiG’s Customer Service Of(DSG) – is continually striving to shorten the tomers expect highly efficient service, delivered fices. The Gas Trading Divisions, which manage time necessary to connect new customers to in the shortest possible time. In response to these several hundred Customer Service Offices all over the gas grid. On average, the process takes expectations, the Company decided to develop Poland, were instructed to implement the new DSG three to nine months, depending on and introduce new interior design at PGNiG SA’s policies by 2013. In line with those policies, all the type of project, which may be limited to offices. The new design and communication standCustomer Service Offices are to be standardised the construction of a connecting pipeline or ards implemented at the Customer Service Offices as described in detail in the Interior Design Guidemay require extension of the gas network. were developed on the basis of surveys, including lines, which specify all components of the cusAs a result of an analysis carried out in 2010, interviews with staff members and customers at tomer communication process at Customer Service measures were taken in 2011 to regulate the various places throughout Poland. The new conOffices – from interior design and fittings, to colprocess of document circulation, which have cept was tailored to the specific requirements of our scheme, to arrangement of promotional and shortened the time of connection by about PGNiG’s services. To ensure a comfortable environadvertising materials. The main purpose of the 30 days. Comparative data for 2009 are not ment for customers, the office space was divided changes introduced at several hundred Customer available. into areas dedicated to specific tasks, depending Service Offices is to optimise customer service, on the type of information sought by a customer. while adapting the locations to new regulations In order to increase its functionality, each area was and contemporary standards. Other benefits will properly equipped and fitted. At the end of 2010, include better use of available space, as well as imthe Management Board of PGNiG SA adopted the proved ergonomics and workplace arrangement. 5. Customer satisfaction 49/ 207 Objective III Development of customer awareness and customer education regarding gas use and efficient energy use The product itself, i.e. natural gas, is one of the strongest points of PGNiG’s offering. 72% of customers are highly satisfied with the product and happy to use it. Moreover, 77% of them appreciate its reliable and uninterrupted supplies and 74% perceive gas as convenient to use. 70% that in response to a question supported by a list of customers hold a positive view on the availof energy sources, whereas 18% pointed to natuability of information about natural gas (only 4% ral gas without any prompting). Even better results point to difficulties in obtaining such information). than in the satisfaction survey were obtained in The “Survey of awareness and image of energy the case of convenience ratings: as many as 92% sources”, conducted on a representative sample of respondents agree that gas is convenient to The widespread use of fossil fuels, which have a of Poles, revealed that gas was a widely known use, while 74% perceive gas as environmentally significant share in CO2 emissions, poses specific source of energy (90% of respondents confirmed friendly. On the other hand, opinions regarding its environmental challenges before PGNiG. In this safe use were less favourable – although 67% of context, an appropriate education policy adrespondents think natural gas to be safe, as many dressed to both existing and prospective customas 28% do not share that opinion. ers is one of PGNiG’s priorities. The awareness of the environmental benefits of gas, as the least emission intensive among all fossil fuels, is spread through various competitions, educational initiatives for children and teenagers, as well as campaigns targeted at adults. Moreover, PGNiG provides its customers with information on safe and efficient use of gas. 5. Customer satisfaction 50/ 207 Objective III Research laboratories The Central Measurement and Testing Laboratory (“CMTL”), present within the PGNiG corporate structure for 17 years now, supervises the various natural gas billing processes, as well as the quality of natural gas. The primary responsibilities of Initiatives/Best practice the laboratory include maintenance of reference standards for the instruments and measures used Customer education in the natural gas industry. CMTL also oversees In view of present day challenges related to the metering systems by conducting periodic inspecneed to protect the environment (mainly from tions ordered by parties to the billing process, contamination caused by solid fossil fuels), the as well as in emergency cases or when a dispute Company believes that a proper educational stratThe Pomeranian Gas Trading Division undertook needs to be resolved. It is also CMTL’s mission to egy addressed to its existing and prospective to run a long-term educational campaign under initiate research and implementation projects concustomers is of crucial importance. PGNiG pursues the name “From toddler to senior citizen” (Od cerning in particular new techniques and technolothat strategy primarily through pro-environmental ­przedszkola do seniora), targeted mainly at chilgies for the natural gas industry (e.g. identification initiatives, such as art competitions and meetings dren from kindergartens and schools within its of gas quality). with children and teenagers, or lectures for adults. operating area, as well as persons in the care of NGOs and their carers. In order to promote acInformation on gas quality is available on PGNiG’s In 2010, PGNiG carried out a number of pro-envitive living among senior citizens of the Gdańskwebsite: www.pgnig.pl/dladomu/6990 True, relironmental initiatives. One of them was a competiGdynia-Sopot agglomeration, PGNiG embarked on able and complete information on the quality of tion for children and teenagers, entitled “Quest for cooperation with the Third Age Universities. The our products, as well as openness in customer Natural Gas” (Wyprawa po gaz ziemny), organised campaign aims to educate its participants on envirelations, are our top priorities. by the Carpathian Gas Trading Division. Its parronmental protection and safe use of gas. ticipants shot films or drew cartoons to present Currently, CMTL is the leading partner for CO2 their opinions on natural gas as a source of clean emission metering for large entities which comenergy. At primary schools, there were meetings, bust natural gas, as well as Poland’s only acdiscussions and games with pupils, designed to credited laboratory authorised to test and evalueducate them on both environmental issues and ate equipment used for CO2 emission volume safe use of gas. estimations. 5. Customer satisfaction 51/ 207 Objective III Diversification of customer communication channels For more detailed information on various communication channels used within the PGNiG Group, see sections: Communication and marketing and New Business Areas (under CNG promotion tools). Work is currently under way to start offering these For more information on CMTL, see: The media play an important role in customer services also to other entities which, apart from www.pgnig.pl/clpb communication, as they are able to reach millions natural gas, emit greenhouse gases coming from of people at the same time. PGNiG is engaged in combustion of biogas, solid or liquid fuels. CMTL Independent research and development activities media-related activities, both through the Group’s represents a powerful asset in PGNiG’s relations at the PGNiG Group are also conducted by other press teams, which update the media on all imwith the outside world, as it openly communicates subsidiaries, including: portant projects undertaken by the Group, and with the public and is happy to host all events for •• Poszukiwania Nafty i Gazu Jasło Sp. z o.o.; by means of information campaigns carried out those interested in science and research: citizens •• PGNiG SA of Warsaw, Zielona Góra Branch; through local and national press. For more inforof Warsaw, as well as school and university stu•• Karpacka Spółka Gazownictwa Sp. z o.o of mation, see the “Communication and marketing” dents. In addition, CMTL organises traineeships for Tarnów; section. students and, since last year, students from the •• Zakład Urządzeń Naftowych University of Warsaw, the Warsaw University of NAFTOMET Sp. z o.o. Technology, the Wrocław University of Technology and the Cardinal Stefan Wyszyński University The subsidiaries and branches conduct research in in Warsaw have been able to conduct their MSc/ various areas, from those closely linked with our BSc research at the laboratory, and acquire handsbusiness goals, such as gas quality testing (Karon experience of the natural gas industry. The packa Spółka Gazownictwa of Tarnów), to research research projects currently conducted at CMTL by into reduction of environmental impacts (PoszukiMSc students cover mainly natural gas and biogas wania Nafty i Gazu Jasło and the Zielona Góra analytics. Branch), to tests and analyses which contribute to the establishment of technical standards and legal regulations for the gas market (Karpacka Spółka Gazownictwa of Tarnów). 5. Customer satisfaction 52/ 207 Objective III Education of children and y o u t h – P o m e r a n i a n G a s Tr a d i n g Division Having socially vulnerable customers in mind, the Pomeranian Gas Trading Division, through its local units, cooperates with local welfare institutions. The cooperation includes exchange and verification of information on socially vulnerable customers (in compliance with the law), and education of As part of these efforts, the Pomeranian Gas children and youth from vulnerable environments Trading Division proposed an educational camin the safe and efficient use of gas. paign entitled “The Land of Blue Energy” (Kraina ­Błękitnej Energii), to be carried out as part of open In the autumn of 2009, the Pomeranian Gas Tradair events organised by the Municipal Welfare Cening Division of Gdańsk and the Municipal Welfare tre. Thanks to this campaign run through various Centre of that city signed a cooperation agreecommunity events, children and teenagers parment whereby they would jointly run educational ticipating in art workshops or competitions have a projects for beneficiaries of welfare centres living chance to expand their knowledge of environmenin Gdańsk, Gdynia or Sopot. tal issues, the economy of everyday life and economical use of natural resources, including gas. Personal transfer of knowledge The primary objective behind the project is to Commercial Advisers (in the case of Business Cusdevelop among children and youth a habit of cartomers) and employees of the Customer Service ing for the natural environment and to show them Offices (in the case of Retail Customers) are the how to use natural resources, such as gas, in a most valuable customer communication chanrational way. nel. The primary task of Commercial Advisers is the provision of advice, related mainly to proper selection of contracted hourly capacity, which translates into a more efficient use of equipment, raising customers’ awareness regarding rational use of energy. As for employees of the Customer Service Offices, they are prepared to answer any questions concerning natural gas, its advantages and safe use, in a professional and easy to understand manner. 5. Customer satisfaction 53/ 207 Objective III “The Land of Blue Energy” campaign has featured Throughout the “Planet of Dreams 2010” festival, during the following events organised by the Muchildren and youth could also: nicipal Welfare Centre: •• spend their free time safely and without the 1) On November 21st 2009, during the “Planet of 3) On May 30th 2010, the “12th Great Family Picuse of stimulants, Dreams 2009” (Planeta Marzeń 2009) festival, nic” (­Wielki ­Festyn ­Rodzinny) took place in Park •• learn how to satisfy their need for acceptance at the sports and entertainment arena of the ­Oruński in Gdańsk, attracting approximately and recognition otherwise than through risky Gdańsk Academy of Physical Education and 1,000 participants. Also in this case, the Pomerabehaviour (i.e. violence), Sport. The annual event is organised for children nian Gas Trading Division was a Partner of the •• learn how to lead a healthy lifestyle without from state and family-run children’s homes, child project, carried out the “Land of Blue Energy” addictions, support centres, youth clubs, community centres, events and sponsored lottery prizes. •• participate in various activities and discover surrogate families, as well as children who live their passions, interests and talents, and prewith their parents at shelters for the homeless 4) On June 12th 2010, at Skwer Arki Gdynia on Bulsent their skills in arts and sports. and children with disabilities, i.e. approximately war Nadmorski in Gdynia, the “Gdynia Creative 1,000 participants (under the care of parents, Mangle” (­Gdyński ­Magiel ­Twórczy) open air fesParticipation in various activities offered at the guardians, and social workers). The event is held tival was organised by the Municipal Welfare Cenevent was also a way to promote social involveto commemorate the successive anniversaries tre of Gdynia and the Group for Support of the ment of the children and youth, as well as their of the adoption of the UNICEF Convention on the Elderly and the Disabled. The aim of the event, parents and guardians, and to help them enter Rights of the Child. The Pomeranian Gas Trading besides community integration, was to raise sothe job market. By taking part in the festival, its Division was a Partner of the project, carried out cial awareness among the inhabitants of Gdynia participants had a chance to experience and show the “Land of Blue Energy” activities and sponrelated to social involvement and employment off their team working skills or get a taste of fair sored lottery prizes and the main prize, a mounof people with disabilities. During the event, the competition. All the young participants, parents tain bike. disabled and elderly presented their artistic, culand guardians could experience activities that tural, and culinary creations. The event attracted may transform themselves into a passion, future 2) On May 25th 2010, at Nursery School No.75 in approximately 800 participants. The Pomeranian job, or a way of life. Gathering so many event Gdańsk Morena, 230 pre-schoolers with their Gas Trading Division was a Partner of the project organisers and producers at the same place and parents took part in the “Merrily and Safely” and sponsored the prizes. time was a chance to see them at work and a true (­Wesoło i Bezpiecznie) integration event for chilopportunity to become acquainted with many dren. The Pomeranian Gas Trading Division was 5) On November 20th 2010, another “Planet of trades, which could influence the young particia Partner of the project, carried out the “Land Dreams” festival was held at the sports and pants’ future way of life and career. of Blue Energy” activities and sponsored lottery entertainment arena of the Gdańsk Academy of prizes. Physical Education and Sport, with approximately 800 participants. 5. Customer satisfaction 54/ 207 Objective III Another joint project of the Pomeranian Gas Trading Division of Gdańsk and the Municipal Welfare Centre is the “Share your Home” (­Podziel ­się ­Domem) campaign, aimed to enlist candidates for surrogate parents, carried out in association with the adoption and guardianship centres of Gdańsk. The number of children and teenagers taking part Thanks to the close cooperation, personal comin the above forms of education may serve as a mitment of the Pomeranian Gas Trading Division’s measure of the effectiveness of the joint efforts employees and help in distribution of leaflets undertaken by the Municipal Welfare Centre and promoting the campaign, the number of persons the Pomeranian Gas Trading Division. The involveattending surrogate parenthood training has inment of the Pomeranian Gas Trading Division’s Besides standard activities related to the provicreased since autumn 2009. employees in numerous events organised by the sion of services to vulnerable customers (postlocal welfare centres, where information materials ponement of payment deadlines, interest-free (leaflets and booklets) on natural gas were distribinstalments), the Pomeranian Gas Trading Division uted, as well as the organisation of competitions joined a long-term project aimed to popularise and games related to natural gas, helped to eduknowledge about natural gas in the socially vulcate over 2,800 persons in 2010 (mainly children nerable environment. As part of the project, we and teenagers). participate in numerous events organised by the Municipal Welfare Centre, thanks to which we can easily present their beneficiaries with information and educational materials on natural gas and its efficient use. All such activities give young people an opportunity to develop pro-environmental attitudes, teach them money management skills, and show them how to use natural resources in a rational and economical way. The various forms of activity offered by the Municipal Welfare Centre are also designed to foster social involvement of the children and youth, as well as their parents and guardians, and help them enter the job market. 5. Customer satisfaction 55/ 207 Objective IV Introduction of initiatives aimed to support socially vulnerable customers Gaseous fuel is supplied to customers connected to the transmission and distribution networks under comprehensive agreements. Among P ­ GNiG’s customers there are also persons who, due to a number of different reasons, are unable to meet their obligations following from the use of natural gas. For years, PGNiG’s Gas Trading Divisions have with interest. However, the lack of a generally apbeen implementing various initiatives to support plicable definition of a socially vulnerable customthis group of customers, including execution of er hinders PGNiG’s attempts to prepare relevant debt repayment agreements and instalment-based standards in that area. For instance, the Company give ­his/her consent for the procedure. A decision payment of debt, interest or the principal amount is not able to keep a register of socially vulnerwhether to introduce such a register may be taken able customers, not only due to financial reasons after the term “socially vulnerable customer” is (the introduction of such a register would entail defined in the Polish law, in accordance with the work-intensive and expensive modifications of the obligation imposed on EU member states by the billing systems), but also because of the need to provisions of Art 3.3 of Directive 2009/73/EC of set up a separate personal database, in line with the European Parliament and the Council of July the provisions of the Personal Data Protection Act. 13th 2009. Given that collection of such data is not required for the performance of agreements, each customNevertheless, acting through its local units, PGNiG er qualifying as socially vulnerable would have to has already commenced cooperation with local welfare centres (OPS/MOPS), with a view to protecting socially vulnerable customers. 5. Customer satisfaction 56/ 207 Objective IV Initiatives/Best practice Cooperation with municipal welfare centres (MOPS), best practice exchange workshops As part of PGNiG’s cooperation with local welfare PGNiG makes efforts to ensure that the Gas Tradcentres, information on socially vulnerable cusing Divisions serving households exchange best tomers is exchanged and verified, in compliance practices in that area, and to develop uniform Introduction of forecast bills for with the applicable legal regulations. If it is reportstandards of serving socially vulnerable customthe W1 and W2 tariff groups ed/confirmed that a debtor of PGNiG’s remains ers. To that end, a workshop was organized unForecast bills were introduced chiefly because they under the care of a social welfare centre, the colder the title “Socially vulnerable customers in the offer measurable benefits to both customers and lection procedure is suspended. Moreover, PGNiG energy sector”, attended by Iwona Figaszewska, suppliers of gaseous fuel, thanks to: follows a special collection procedure with respect Counsel of the President of the Energy Regulatory •• less frequent gas meter readings, to holders of certificates issued by social welfare Office (URE), who explained to PGNiG’s employees •• an option for customers to plan for their gas centres, confirming their right to benefit from the EU’s position on vulnerable customers for gas payments well in advance, social assistance. PGNiG cooperates with social and electricity. •• uniform and regular invoices and payments, welfare centres to help socially vulnerable custom•• reduction of PGNiG’s own costs (gas meter ers obtain aid for payment of their outstanding readings, preparation and distribution of bills), gas bills. For this purpose, the Company and social which are the basis for calculating subscription welfare centres consult to make arrangements refees, garding unpaid bills to be financed with aid mon•• improved effectiveness of the collection proey. A customer in a difficult situation, unaware of cedure owing to lower amounts of single the right to receive assistance, is informed about payments, this benefit and referred to the nearest social wel•• improved financial liquidity of PGNiG thanks to fare centre. more regular payments, •• lower amounts of single payments, •• (indirectly) enhanced image of PGNiG and customer satisfaction level, •• the forecast bill system covers 99% of all customers from the W-1 and W-2 tariff groups. 5. Customer satisfaction 57/ 207 Objective IV Requirements to be met by suppliers Wielkopolska Spółka Gazownictwa (WSG) established minimum requirements of the Management System to be met by contractors providing services for and within the Company. The aim of the document is to communicate the Company’s requirements, while ensuring that contractors providing services for and within Wielkopolska Spółka Gazownictwa act in compliance with the environmental laws and the Occupational Health and Safety regulations, and that they respect human and employee rights while conducting business activities. Wielkopolska Spółka Gazownictwa will only cooperate with those Contractors who, irrespective of the applicable legal regulations, additionally agree Summary to comply with the Minimum Requirements of the Customers are the driving force of our Company. WSG Management System. To them we owe our market presence, development and leading position on the gas market. In an effort to keep up to date with the needs of our customers, we carry out periodical satisfaction surveys, aimed at identifying their concerns and wishes. The surveys enable us to improve our services and products taking into account our customers’ expectations. We believe that we have adopted the right approach, allowing us to continuously develop and invest in the most recent technologies. 5. Customer satisfaction 58/ 207 Commitments for the future Strategic pillar Operational objectives Detailed objectives for next period To create an effective and user•• To fully implement the e-passage all over friendly self-service platform Poland •• To launch e-BOKs at four Gas Trading Divisions •• To launch an additional Contact Center at one Gas Trading Division To improve comfort of customer •• To gradually implement the new interior service at Customer Service Offices design concept at Customer Service Offices •• To take further steps with a view to Customer shortening connection time satisfaction •• To review and improve procedures with view to improving customer service Natural gas tank in Gdańsk – then and now To raise awareness and •• To implement, as part of Business educate customers in use of Customer Service, the function of a direct gas and energy efficiency customer service expert •• To launch an e-expert in the e-passage To take steps designed to support •• To continue cooperation with social socially vulnerable customers welfare centres (OPS and MOPS) •• To implement new products: “equal bills”, “no fixed charges” and “eco” Prepared by a team composed of: Ewelina Błachuta, Marcin Grząba, Monika Kościów, Jerzy Magas, Magdalena Mroczka, Dorota Rajczyk-Gałkowska, Krzysztof Smorczewski, Piotr Sobieraj, Wojciech Tymiak and Katarzyna Wiznerowicz. 5. Customer satisfaction 59/ 207 5.1. PGNiG’s e-passage – The equipment offered via the portal is covered by warranties extended by an additional year. The everything it takes to portal quotes catalogue prices, but a customer may negotiate a discount with the company increate a warm home stalling the equipment. What, specifically, will customers be able to do via PGNiG’s e-passage? Everything related to sale of heating equipment, Mid-June 2011 saw the pilot launch of PGNiG’s from selecting a product to placing an online ore-passage, an internet portal. The programme is der. A customer at a loss what kind of equipment currently being tested at the Lublin and Zabrze Gas to choose will find expert advice and assistance Sales Units, where its pilot operation is expected by clicking on the “Strefa Doradcza” (Advice Zone) to last until the end of 2011, to be extended to option, featuring key information on heating techthe other Gas Sales Units in 2012. The advantages nologies. A customer can also send us a question of the new solution are presented by Agnieszka via e-mail on any specific matter. C h m i e l a r z , Tr a d e M a r k e t i n g O f f i c e D i r e c t o r a t P G N i G S A , L e a d e r o f t h e P r o j e c t Te a m w o r k i n g o n the e-passage portal. What function is PGNiG’s e-passage designed to The web page of PGNiG’s e-passage includes ofserve? ferings of major suppliers of such equipment. It is a new channel, in the form of an internet porWe have signed agreements with Viessmann and tal, through which we hope to reach our customTermet, and are negotiating new agreements with ers. It is also the most advanced IT tool yet dediother manufacturers, which means that the offercated to comprehensive retail customer service to ing will soon be extended. have been deployed by our Company. E-passage is an expert advice and sales service through which our customers will be able to buy various gas-fired house heating equipment. Agnieszka Chmielarz Trade Marketing Office Director, Marketing Department 5. Customer satisfaction 60/ 207 The optimum selection of heating equipment (boilers, heaters etc.), its proper installation and operation, requires such selection and installation to be performed by professionals, including designers and installers, whose offerings are presented in the catalogue “Usługi okołogazownicze” (Gas equipment support services). Let me also add that banks cooperating with us on the project have developed for our customers attractive loan offerings to help them finance the purchase of heating equipment or even the construction of entire heating systems. •• Usługi okołogazownicze (Gas equipment supService Offices, who will be directly involved in What functionalities does the portal offer port services) – a database (currently covercustomer service, will increase. As a result, cuscurrently? ing only the area of the Lublin Gas Sales Unit) tomers will have certainty that the selected techCurrently, selected functionalities of the e-passage including a list of firms offering services involvnologies will best serve their needs. are activated. These include: ing the design, manufacture, inspection, servic•• Strefa doradcza (Advice Zone) – providing key ing/maintenance and installation of equipment, If you are interested in the operation of the einformation on the heating and gas technoloas well as chimney-sweep services. passage, visit: gies. The major feature here is the Product Ad•• Kontakt (Contact) – a function supporting prodhttp://e-pasaz.pgnig.pl viser which – based on a customer’s answers uct-related questions or requests for advice. to a couple of simple questions – will deliver a list of recommended equipment. In its final form, PGNiG’s e-passage will auto•• Katalog produktowy (Product Catalogue) – a matically support all material business processes fully functional online catalogue of equipment connected with purchase of heating equipment with parameter descriptions, filtering searches (orders processing), thanks to the functionality against a customer’s specific needs. of the Backoffice module. After the portal is fully implemented, the role of employees of Customer 61/ 207 6. L ocal communities One of the PGNiG Group’s key priorities is to achieve symbiosis with the environment in which we operate, thereby securing local communities’ I believe these four investment projects may serve as a perfect examsupport for our operations, ple of how PGNiG, particularly its Investments Department, approachparticularly investment projects. es the issues of safety and corporate responsibility towards its cusOn the other hand, it is our tomers and the environment. This relates to protection of the environment and ambition to comprehensively proper preparation of projects. We also attach great importance support local communities, thus to keeping the local authorities, administrative bodies becoming a catalyst of local and local communities adequately informed about development. a project, its purposes, implementation, and expected completion dates. We make every effort to carry out our projects is such a manner that each of our partners is well-informed about their progress and results, and obtains maximum benefits from their implementation. Grzegorz Gałek Investment Preparation and Execution Office Director, Investments Department 6. Local communities 62/ 207 Tasks This attitude is reflected in the fact that we have made dialogue and cooperation with our social and business Completed partners one of the pillars of the Sustainable Growth and Responsible Business Strategy for 2009 – 2015. In 2010, efforts were focused on the following three of the seven adopted 25 objectives: 1. to develop a clear sponsorship policy; The efforts made in pursuit of the selected objectives (with the Under way exception of the first one) are presented for individual groups 2. to build good relationships with local communities; and of the Company’s stakeholders, by showing the most interesting best practices addressed to the 95 respective stakeholder groups. 3. to share expertise and broaden cooperation Delayed with higher education institutions. 4 6. Effective, dialogue-based cooperation with social and business 63/ 207 partners Objective Objective Objective I II III Development of a Clear Sponsorship Policy Sponsorship Management Procedure, including Guidelines relating to Internal Regulations Effect Improved management of available budgets and better results. Transparent Grants and Donations Policy for the PGNiG Foundation 6. Local communities 64/ 207 Objective Objective Objective Effects I II III In Katowice, in 287 classes at 36 schools, Górnośląska Spółka Gazownictwa Building Good Relationships with Local (Upper Silesian Gas Distribution Communities Company) and Vattenfall have run the Safe Inhabitant campaign. CSR campaigns 1.2m people were reached with the F r o m a To d d l e r t o Knowledge Exchange a Senior Citizen Forum at Sanok Branch campaign, focused on the safe use of gas and organised by the Pomeranian G a s Tr a d i n g Division. 237 employees Dialogue with participated in the authorities 5 th a n d 6 th e d i t i o n of the voluntary PGNiG blood donor session for culture at Mazowiecka Spółka Gazownictwa (Mazovian Gas Distribution Company). 6. Local communities 65/ 207 Objective Objective Objective I II III Effects 492 educational On the initiative projects under the of the Olsztyn Gas Sharing Expertise and PGNiG Foundation’s Little Nobel Sales Unit, the first “Adventures of Blue Energy” comic Broadening Cooperation with Programme. strip book was published. 1,500 visitors to Higher Education Institutions the interactive exhibition PGNiG Foundation’s “Protect, Save, scholarships for Win”, organised pupils and college in cooperation students. Financial support for and expertise with the Institute sharing with technology schools Scientific seminars of Molecular and universities Physics of the co-organised by Polish Academy of the AGH University Sciences. o f Te c h n o l o g y in Kraków and Thanks to its the University of cooperation with S t a v a n g e r, N o r w a y, Mazowiecka Spółka thanks to the Gazownictwa, cooperation with the Gas Industry P G N i G N o r w a y. Vocational School Educational in Łódź received projects a PLN 1.2m grant. 6. Local communities 66/ 207 Objective I To d e v e l o p a c l e a r s p o n s o r s h i p p o l i c y. The consistency of our sponsorship efforts is a Furthermore, a professional firm has been manmaterial element of our communication with the dated to perform periodic surveys and analyses of public, highlighting the issues especially important the effectiveness of sponsorship initiatives underto our organisation. This supports more effective taken at the PGNiG Group. As a result, in 2010, the allocation of funds to sponsored projects, in a way Company received quarterly the results of such which is more beneficial to both the local commuanalyses, including media coverage of the sponnities and the Company, which has better control sorship projects and recommendations for the of the effects of its initiatives. future, and in the case of major projects – also the assessment of their strategic and tactical consistInitiatives/Best practices ency, as well as SWOT analysis. At PGNiG SA’s Head Office, the Sponsorship Based on such surveys and analyses, which covManagement Procedure was developed, includered over 650 sponsorship projects in 2010, it ing Guidelines relating to Internal Regulations, was determined that the average advertising Grants and Donations Policy for approved by the Company’s governing bodies value equivalent (AVE) amounted to 3.7 for sportsPGNiG SA’s Ignacy Łukasiewicz towards the end of 2009. The procedure, implerelated projects (i.e., the advertising value was 3.7 Foundation mented in 2010, covers sponsorship activity at the times higher than the funds invested); 1.9 for enviIn 2010, a new, more transparent grants and doHead Office and Company’s Branches, and reguronmental and social projects and 1.7 for cultural nations policy was also developed for PGNiG SA’s lates planning, execution, reporting and communiprojects. Ignacy Łukasiewicz Foundation. The Foundation cation of sponsorship projects. To ensure consistconducts its day-to-day activities based on grant ency with the corporate strategy, the procedure At the Wrocław Gas Sales Unit of the Lower Silecontests for educational and research projects, as sets out the main areas of sponsorship initiatives, sian Gas Trading Division, the Donations Procedure well as projects relating to healthcare, culture, fine as well as recommended and prohibited initiatives. was developed and implemented, ensuring that arts and sports. This method of project financing each request is reviewed based on a set of transenables the Group companies to be effectively parent and well defined criteria. The list of donainvolved in the process, by recommending those tions granted and their beneficiaries is available in submitted projects which are important from the the Company’s intranet, which attests to the transpoint of view of their operations and the needs parency governing the Group’s charitable activity. of local community. Rules were prepared for the award of grants and donations from the Foundation’s funds, and application and report forms were drafted. 6. Local communities 67/ 207 Objective II Building good relationships with Initiatives/Best practices local communities Branch Information Exchange The dialogue which PGNiG has for a number of Forum years been engaged in with the local communities In 2010, the Sanok Branch established the Branch of the Group companies allows us to meet the folInformation Exchange Forum, which serves as lowing two fundamental objectives: a tool for gauging social attitudes towards the •• to successfully implement the Group’s investGroup’s investment plans. Various functions of the ment plans and secure their acceptance by loBranch take part in Forum meetings several times cal communities; investment projects often ena year, to identify the necessary initiatives (espetail the acquisition of land, even if temporary, cially related to communication and organisational and interference with the landscape; they may matters) addressed to the local community and also cause some nuisance because of noise and authorities and designed to eliminate difficulties, if other environmental impacts; and any, and win acceptance for planned projects. •• to better identify the expectations of local Half a tonne of screw caps communities in order to compensate the inIn 2010, Dolnośląska Spółka Gazownictwa supThe Wrocław Gas Sales Unit’s employees particihabitants for any adverse impacts of new ported the organisation of the XI Lower Silesian pated in a plastic screw caps collection campaign, investment projects. Local Government Forum, where local government not only out of a sense of responsibility for the officials exchange experience and establish coopnatural environment. The collected caps were eration in the form of inter-commune and interdelivered to the Na Ratunek Dzieciom z Chorobą county unions. Nowotworową (To the Rescue of Children with Cancer) Foundation, which in turn delivers them In November 2010, the IV Employers Forum was to a recycling company. Some of the money raised held on the premises of the Odolanów Branch, in this way is used to finance the construction of which co-organised the event. The meeting was Klinika Przylądek Nadziei (Cape of Hope Hospital). attended by more than 20 companies operatThe campaign will be continued by employees of ing in southern regions of Greater Poland, which the Wrocław, Zgorzelec and Wałbrzych Gas Sales exchanged experience useful in ensuring legal Units, because it helps not only to reduce the compliance of business activities, and in improvgreenhouse effect, but also raise funds for Klinika ing occupational safety and eliminating risks. The Transplantacji Szpiku, Onkologii i Hematologii Regional Chamber of Commerce and State Labour Dziecięcej (Children’s Marrow Transplant, Oncology Inspection Authority were the other co-organisers. and Haematology Hospital). 6. Local communities 68/ 207 Objective II The majority of CSR initiatives undertaken in 2010 were a continuation of earlier efforts. The growing number of participants and wider geographical scope confirm their effectiveness. In 2011, PGNiG Activities/Best practices intends to continue its pro-environmental and educational campaigns based around the followEducational campaigns ing topics: In July and August 2010, within the framework •• safe use of natural gas; of the third educational campaign under the •• safe and eco-friendly behaviour (e.g. around title “PGNiG – Be safe around water” (PGNiG water); ­Bezpiecznie nad wodą), the Company organised Since 2005, Górnośląska Spółka Gazownictwa •• eco-friendly habits related to waste disposal, weekend family picnics in six holiday resorts, from (GSG) in cooperation with energy company Vatwater pollution and energy consumption; Mikołajki, to Kołobrzeg, to Solina. The participants tenfall has run the campaign “Safety at home” •• further promotion of blood donation among could learn about the European emergency phone (Bezpieczny Mieszkaniec), which promotes safe the PGNiG Group’s employees. number 112 and the ICE card (In Case of Emergenuse of natural gas and electricity on the one hand, cy), take part in contests and theatrical plays prowhile counteracting illegal draw of the utilities, moting eco-friendly behaviours, as well as practise on the other. The event includes free-of-charge first aid under the supervision of volunteer water training for safety services. In October 2010, GSG rescuers from Masuria and Sopot. The project and Vattenfall’s conference was attended by alcomprised also a series of boat races and meetmost 70 representatives of housing cooperatives ings with well-known sportsmen – ambassadors and homeowner associations, and speeches were of the campaign. delivered, among others, by members of fire and police services. The campaign has also been introduced to primary schools in several Silesian cities, where specially trained teachers talk to children about alarming events which require response. In 2010 alone, such lessons were held in 287 classes of 36 schools in Katowice. 6. Local communities 69/ 207 Objective II PGNiG for culture Objective: •• to preserve the heritage of the traditional gas industry and petroleum production; •• to spread historical knowledge about the petroleum industry; •• to promote artistic events. Initiatives/Best practices A similar long-term educational campaign relating “Single Work Gallery” (Galeria to safe use of gas is run by the Pomeranian Gas Jednego Dzieła) Trading Division under the name “From Toddler The idea behind the gallery is to present works to Senior Citizen”. It is targeted not only at school of art in places often visited by residents of the Readers Plus children, but also at students and elderly people, Gdańsk-Gdynia-Sopot agglomeration, such as pubIn 2010, the Sandomierz Gas Sales Unit, together and it is organised at Universities of the Third Age, lic offices, institutions, certain companies, banks, with the Association “It’s Good that You Are Here” picnics and festive events. In 2010, the campaign courts, shops, and restaurants. While these sites (Dobrze, że jesteś), bought Readers Plus (devices reached almost 1.2m people. may lack space for large exhibitions, there is usuallowing the blind to become familiar with museally enough room to display a single work of art. um collections and read library books), and donatOn the initiative of the Sanok Branch, lectures ed them to the regional museum and public librarentitled “Ask Animals about Waste Disposal” were The key benefit of the project is that it enables ies. The inbuilt speech synthesizer, Ivona, reads delivered at schools, and pupils were involved residents of the agglomeration to come into direct text files, which ensures fast and easy access to in searching for illegal dumps and cleaning local contact with art. The “Single Work Gallery” is a scanned books, notes, exhibition catalogues and forests. All children participating in the event were new unconventional approach to the promotion other texts. All messages provided by the device invited to a theatre play (“Pinocchio”), produced by of cultural and artistic activities of young local are generated by the speech synthesizer, Ivona. the Maska Theatre in Rzeszów. artists – students and graduates of the Academy of Fine Arts in Gdańsk. As a co-organiser of the The fifth and sixth editions of the voluntary blood campaign, the Pomeranian Gas Trading Division donor sessions “Giving Blood, Giving Life” were makes its Customer Service Offices available for held in 2010. At the beginning limited to Mathe purpose. zowiecka Spółka Gazownictwa, the blood donor campaign has become a large-scale project accessible to everyone. It is promoted by posters put up at all the Customer Service Offices in Warsaw. This year, 237 participants of the sessions donated 68 litres of valuable blood. 6. Local communities 70/ 207 Objective II On May 15th 2010, the Gas Industry Museum The Wrocław Gas Sales Unit once again sponsored in Paczków, established and supported by the Wratislavia Cantans International Festival – a Górnośląska Spółka Gazownictwa, participated prestigious event attracting participants from all for the first time in the pan-European event – the over Europe, during which the most beautiful Publishing “Maciejki Night of Museums. On that night, the Museum historic buildings of Lower Silesia are filled with niecodzienne”, a book written attracted more than 500 visitors willing to see sounds of oratorical, symphonic, as well as vocal b y a d i s a b l e d b o y, M a c i e j an exhibition featuring examples of old industrial and instrumental music. In 2010, the Wrocław Gas Maliński architecture, a historical municipal gas producSales Unit also supported the Jazztopad Festival – Pomorska Spółka Gazownictwa has been involved tion line, Europe’s largest collection of domestic one of the most important European jazz festivals in various CSR projects for years. It is particularly gas metres and a host of other exhibits related to for young musicians. eager to participate in campaigns focused on the traditional gas industry. In September 2010, children, promoting their knowledge, abilities and the Museum was involved in the European Herittalent. age Days held under the slogan “From Idea, to Industry”. Almost 1,600 events were organised in International Pianists’ Forum almost 300 Polish towns, to promote Polish tech“Bieszczady without Borders” nological inventions, disappearing professions and (Bieszczady bez granic) traditional production techniques. Also, the Gas “Bieszczady without Borders” is a unique project Industry Museum in Warsaw, under the patronage among global artistic events. Within its framework, of PGNiG’s Head Office, takes part in both events talented young people from Western Ukraine, every year. Eastern Slovakia and the whole of Poland have a chance to acquire extensive theoretical and practiPoszukiwania Nafty i Gazu Kraków was involved cal knowledge that is not taught in their schools. in the preparation of a historical supplement to Topics range from medical conditions affecting the Rzeczpospolita nationwide daily, entitled “The musicians to finding one’s own artistic place in the Book of Eastern Borderlands” (“Księga Kresów world permeated by business values. From the Wschodnich”). Its special edition, under the title very beginning, this artistic venture has been sup“Galician Kerosene. Oil, champagne, and money” ported by the PGNiG Sanok Branch, whose involve(“Galicyjska Nafta. Ropa, szampan i pieniądze”), ment was honoured by the title of the Patron of tells the story of Polish oil industry workers, invenCarpathian Culture. tors and pioneers of that branch, who were five years ahead even of their American colleagues. The publication was warmly welcomed by readers, who spontaneously offered to share their own private archives. 6. Local communities 71/ 207 Objective III Sharing expertise and broadening cooperation with The Pomeranian Gas Trading Division, in cooperahigher education institutions tion with the Centre for Pro-Ecological Information and Education, organised the “Let an Apple For many years, PGNiG has been an active particiAt the end of the year, Mazowiecka Spółka GaHit Your Head” (Bęc jabłkiem w głowę) contest pant and sponsor of campaigns aimed to popuzownictwa and the Regional Examination Board addressed to primary and junior high schools. 66 larise exact sciences and research. It is part and of Łódź concluded an agreement on an exam groups of primary school children and 36 groups parcel of our everyday work. We are especially confirming professional qualifications of gas engifrom junior high schools (each comprising three committed to the promotion of sciences and reneers, whereby the company undertook to prepupils on average) entered the competition. The search among children and youth. pare and equip an examination centre, as well as participants performed selected experiments in co-organise and participate in exams. physics and chemistry, illustrating them with their Initiatives/Best practices own multimedia presentations or posters. Poszukiwania Nafty i Gazu Sp. z o.o. of Kraków PGNiG for schools is involved in professional education of drilling The “Adventures in the Land of Blue Energy” is an •• Promotion of exact sciences; rig technicians, by organising traineeships for educational comic book about the past, present •• Ensuring equal educational opportunities for students of the Oil Industry Secondary School in and future of natural gas, published on the initiachildren and youth; Krosno and the PGNiG Vocational School Complex tive of the Gas Sales Unit in Olsztyn. The book •• Development of vocational education in fields in Kraków on its training oil rig installations near reminds readers in a light way how to use gas related to the oil and gas sector. Tarnów. Poszukiwania Nafty i Gazu Sp. z o.o. of safely. Piła additionally prepared and published three Mazowiecka Spółka Gazownictwa (MSG), as the vocational course books, which were distributed In 2010, the PGNiG Foundation awarded scholarpatron of the Gas Industry Secondary School in among all students of the Stanisław Staszic School ships totalling PLN 26 thousand to 13 top-performSecondary School Complex No. 3 in Łódź, supports Complex in Piła. ing students of secondary schools offering educathe school in organising workshops and prepartion in fields related to the oil and gas industry. ing teaching curricula. It was thanks to MSG’s involvement that the school received PLN 1.2m of The Lower Silesian Gas Trading Division, along EU funds to found a library for gas engineers and with the Environmental Protection League and mechanics, provide specialist training courses (PE the National Fund for Environmental Protection welder, electric arc welder), workshops for stuand Water Management, organised the provincial dents and student visits at gas facilities. The mastage of the 25th Ecology Schoolympics, entered by jority of these projects were implemented in 2010. 58 schools from the entire province of Wrocław. 6. Local communities 72/ 207 Objective III “Safe and eco-friendly life with natural gas” (Żyć bezpiecznie i ekologicznie z gazem ziemnym) In 2010, the PGNiG Foundation, in association with Delivering classes for children and teenagers, the Foundation for the Development of Voluntary Heads of the Customer Service Offices of the ZgorService, executed 3,213 projects under which zelec Gas Sales Unit (Lower Silesian Gas Trading Distudent volunteers conducted classes for children vision) needed to demonstrate both practical and living in small towns and rural areas. As part of theoretical knowledge, as well as teaching skills. the “Young Nobel” (Młody Nobel) programme, Their task was twofold to present the Company launched to stir up interest in exact sciences, they work for and to describe the properties of 492 educational projects were run involving 70 natural gas, its origin, methods of production and schools and over 2,000 students. Simultanetransport, as well as environmental advantages. ously, a nation-wide film competition exploring The initiative covered 19 schools and nearly 2,000 themes from mathematics to mechatronics was students. Every participant received puzzles preheld. Films, even those shot with a mobile phone pared as part of the CSR training discussed earlier, camera, were posted on the Internet and evaluduring which employees illustrated key strategic ated by Internet users. (http://www.projektor.org. objectives with photographs. pl/0,1,27,Mlody_Nobel.html). “ Yo u c a n b e a n e n v i ro n m e n t a l “Be safe in Jarosław” a c t i v i s t t o o ” ( I Ty m o ż e s z z o s t a ć In yet another year of its cooperation with schools (Bezpieczny Jarosław) ekologiem) named after Ignacy Łukasiewicz, the PGNiG FounThe programme run by the Jarosław Gas Sales The initiative carried out by the Rzeszów Gas Sales dation financed 1,411 extracurricular classes in 21 Unit (Carpathian Gas Trading Division) was meant Unit (Carpathian Gas Trading Division) was focused schools, which depending on specific needs – to raise children’s awareness of dangers posed by on the promotion of pro-environmental attitudes ranged from artistic, journalistic or theatrical road traffic and the Internet. among young people, development of their enviworkshops, to sports activities, to compensatory ronmental sensitivity and popularisation of enviclasses in maths or physics. Within its framework, some preventive measures ronmental issues. The campaign was addressed were also implemented in response to risks faced to first-, secondand third-form primary school by various sections of the local community. These pupils. educational activities showed how to eliminate or mitigate dangers we encounter as members of society. 6. Local communities 73/ 207 Objective III PGNiG, higher education and research institutions Cooperation with higher education institutions has been high on PGNiG’s agenda practically from the beginning. It is an indispensable element of our everyday activities, as we benefit from the quality of education of our future personnel. The conduct Art and literary contest of and participation in science and research propromoting environmental jects is another key aspect of our business and one Objective: aspects of natural gas with significant implications. In 2010, the Company •• to promote science and scientific achievements The project, carried out by the Koszalin Gas Sales started cooperation with new research institutions, among the public; Unit (Greater Poland Gas Trading Division) since hoping to attract engineering staff and initiate re•• to interest young people in pursuing higher 2009, is addressed to pupils of primary schools in search and development work whose results may education in sciences, including fields related the county of Koszalin. The promotion of natural benefit our operations. The promotion of science to the oil and gas industry; gas as an environmentally-friendly energy source through festivals held in various cities with PGNiG •• to promote areas of vital importance to the oil that should be used rationally and economically SA’s support is also growing in scale and effect. and gas sector among researchers. fosters pro-environmental habits from an early age. Children’s works are displayed at the Customer Service Offices in Koszalin. Summary: Recognising that the Company’s development is closely tied with technological progress, PGNiG SA tries to spark interest in exact sciences among the youngest. At the same time, it supports trade schools offering oil and gas specialisations as the source of future specialists in areas such as drilling or gas network servicing. 6. Local communities 74/ 207 Objective III Summary Cooperation between the Odolanów Branch and In 2010, the PGNiG Group pursued a number of the Institute of Molecular Physics of the Polish initiatives in cooperation with various groups makAcademy of Sciences (IFM PAN) resulted in yet aning up its social environment, thus laying a founother – 26th – edition of the “Summer with Helium” dation for good and lasting relationships with local Initiatives/Best practices (Lato z Helem) Scientific Workshops, held at the communities. The Group believes that continued end of June and beginning of July 2010. As part cooperation on educational projects, especially to In 2010, PGNiG SA provided financial support for of the project, research teams comprising young promote exact sciences, is particularly important. science festivals across the country, from the scientists, university and high school students inIn the coming year, we will be developing our coFestival of Science in Kraków (May 12th – 15th), terested in physics, carried out a series of experioperation with research centres, so as to acquire Bydgoszcz Science Festival (May 26th – 28th) to the ments at the Department of Low Temperatures expertise necessary to explore for and produce Baltic Science Festival (May 27th – 30th). During the of IFM PAN, using liquid helium and nitrogen prounconventional gas, which we see as key to future festivals, the Company co-organised various activivided by the local PGNiG Branch. The experiments development of the Group’s production business ties involving the audiences, such as the “Awards were preceded by an interactive exhibition entiin Poland. To pursue this goal, PGNiG SA has alfor Listeners” (Nagradzanie za słuchanie) contest, tled “Protect, Save, Win” (Chronisz, Oszczędzasz, ready taken some steps, such as entering the Sciwhich tested knowledge gained during the event, Wygrywasz), aiming to explain certain physical ence and Technology Consortium ­Polska ­Platforma or “Science is Beautiful” (Nauka jest piękna) – an and chemical phenomena used in our daily lives. ­Prac ­Rozwojowych dla ­Gazu ­Niekonwencjonalnego exhibition dedicated to Polish female scientists. The exhibition was prepared by students of a lo(Polish Platform for Development Work in the Area cal junior high school, and visited by nearly 1,500 of Unconventional Gas). Communication with both Gazoprojekt SA, working together with the students from the region. local and state authorities will require more atWrocław University of Technology, prepared and tention in the coming year. It will be necessary to delivered a series of eight lectures on the gas PGNiG Norway AS has initiated a joint project establish, together with state administration bodindustry at the Faculty of Environmental Engineerbringing together business and science, together ies, a reasonable regulatory framework relating to ing. The lectures dealt with technical problems with the University of Stavanger and the AGH Uniunconventional gas. On the other hand, cooperarelated to gas storage and transmission, control of versity of Science and Technology in Kraków. Withtion with local governments will allow the Group technological installations and co-generation. in the framework of that initiative, three seminars to effectively manage its investment projects. Takon the company’s operations on the Norwegian ing into account PGNiG’s wide-ranging investment Shelf were held. programme planned for the coming years, fostering good relations with subcontractors in 2011 will As part of the project’s second edition, the PGNiG also be crucial. Foundation awarded 10 scholarships worth PLN 50 thousand to the best students in fields related to the petroleum industry, thus earning recognition in the “Good Scholarships 2010” (­Dobre ­stypendia ­2010) awards. 6. Local communities 75/ 207 Commitments for the future Strategic pillar Operational objectives Detailed objectives for next period Sharing expert knowledge, •• To develop the Polish Platform for Development Work in the Area of Unconventional Gas www.3prgn.pl broadening cooperation •• To promote education in the field of shale gas by cooperating with research centres with Polish and international research centres •• To develop scholarship and educational programmes More effective communi•• To take part in important scientific conferences and seminars on shale gas Local cation with public and local •• To play an active role in the nation-wide discussion of different aspects of shale gas exploration authorities communities Creating lasting •• To conduct dialogue based on AA1000 standards with communities relationships of equals where shale gas exploration projects will be located with local communities •• To develop standards for cooperation with local communities during exploration and subsequent production of shale gas •• To promote knowledge of the established standards of cooperation with local communities on the Polish market Prepared by a team composed of: Beata Błaziak, Katarzyna Chołast, Maja Girycka, Paweł Karaś, Patrycja Kujawa, Anna Pomarańska and Piotr Wojtasik. 76/ 207 7. Natural environment Our business inevitably involves interference with natural resources and individual components of the environment. This is particularly true about the Exploration and Production segment, and it is our responsibility to minimise the environmental impacts of its operations, rationally manage resources and waste, a n d , i f n e c e s s a r y, c o m p e n s a t e f o r t h e e f f e c t s o f o u r interference with the environment. 7. Natural environment 77/ 207 The implementation of the environmenToday, we face new challenges in the area of tal protection objectives adopted in 2009 environmental protection, one example being as part of the Sustainable Development compliance with the energy and climate packand Responsible Business Strategy was neither age or the much discussed shale gas. We hope a surprise nor a new, unknown challenge for that thanks to the environmental credibility which PGNiG’s employees and its environmental protecwe have been building for years, the Company’s tion personnel. This was due to two reasons. Firstshale gas exploration projects will be accepted by ly, the environmental protection objectives were the public, providing an opportunity not only for developed jointly by the entire team. Secondly, for the Company, but also for society at large and many years the Company has invariably treated the local communities. Gas is more than just an environmental protection as an area of crucial environmental-friendly fuel – in fact, the most importance, critical to its business success. In this environmental-friendly of all fossil fuels. Over the way, the Company’s CSR strategy provided merely course of years, we have been trying to prove that a formal framework for the objectives and prioriit is also a precious natural resource which can be tised them to reflect new challenges in the area of produced at minimum cost to the environment. environmental protection. Following its adoption, the Company was able to commit human resources and funds to their implementation, and gained measures to assess their progress. Two years after the strategy was launched, we can boast measurable environmental achievements, which often exceed the obligatory legal requirements and involve further mitigation of our negative environmental impacts. It should be added that the objectives and results of these efforts also apply to the contractors cooperating with us on our projects. Grzegorz Sojski Environmental Protection Office Director, Investments Department 7. Natural environment 78/ 207 H o w e v e r, w h e n c o m p a r e d with other fossil fuels, Tasks natural gas, which is our m a i n c o m m o d i t y, g e n e r a t e s markedly less emissions into the atmosphere. Therefore, now that Completed counteracting climate change is high on everyone’s agenda, it is essential to promote a broader use of natural gas, both for applications which have been known for years (such as 38 gas cookers or house heating All entities of the PGNiG systems) and through products Group, whether operating in we can offer by developing our Poland or elsewhere, have new business segment – Power always put special emphasis Generation. Power plants fuelled on environmental protection, Under way by gas (instead of coal), comitigation of adverse generation, renewable energy environmental impacts, and sources and biomass utilisation environment-friendly projects. will all have a beneficial effect on the level of atmospheric emissions. This priority has found its reflection in the goals and measures set down in the 78 Sustainable Development A similar environmental and and Responsible Business economic purpose is served by S t r a t e g y. C a r e f o r t h e n a t u r a l the promotion of CNG fuelled environment is among the vehicles, from passenger cars to six primary objectives of our Delayed buses and delivery trucks. S t r a t e g y. P G N i G b e l i e v e s t h a t a key challenge is to conduct its business so that its broad impact is used to benefit the environment, and turn risks into opportunities. 16 7. C  onducting business responsibly, with due regard to the 79/ 207 natural environment Objective Objective Objective Objective I II III IV Implementing, Maintaining and Enhancing Environment Management Systems (EMS) 10 entities of the PGNiG Group were recertified Effect 75% of Group entities use EMS. Continued efforts to introduce EMS in the WSG and MSG First stage of work aimed to unify methods and criteria used to identify and assess environmental aspects 7. Natural environment 80/ 207 Objective Objective Objective Objective I II III IV To Use Elements of EMS to Meet Requirements of the HSE Management System HSE manual at PNiG Nafta Piła Effect Integration of existing management systems and their elements. STOP programme at PNiG Kraków 7. Natural environment 81/ 207 Objective Objective Objective Objective I II III IV To Educate and Raise Environmental Awareness Specialist training Effect 1,185 persons trained in 2010. Information campaigns 7. Natural environment 82/ 207 Objective Objective Objective Objective I II III IV To Take into Account Environmental Criteria when Selecting New Investment Projects, Solutions and Technologies Effects Introduction of innovative Limiting impact on Research and expert pro-environmental technology the environment, in analyses solutions particular: emissions into the air energy consumption amount of waste produced water consumption Pro-environmental impact on flora and overhauls and fauna. Taking environmental upgrades criteria into account at the planning/ design stage of projects 7. Natural environment 83/ 207 Objective I To i m p l e m e n t , m a i n t a i n a n d Map of EMS enhance the environment implementations at management systems (EMS) the PGNiG Group The PGNiG Group voluntarily mitigates its harmful environmental impacts by means of environment management systems (EMS) in place at the Group entities, which guarantee compliance of their operations with applicable laws. A harmful environmental impact, such as flue gas emissions, water consumption or noise, identified at an entity may relate to past, present or future products and services. Any material environmental impact (chosen by applying the relevant criteria) translates into other elements of the system, such as environmental policies, objectives and tasks, Initiatives/Best practices process monitoring and management. EMS serve to improve the Company’s image and credibility in Thanks to the environmental management sysCompliance with legal regulations allows the the eyes of both state authorities and customers, tems, which have already been in place for several Group to avoid fines for breaching environmental while contributing to the environmental years (the first one was implemented in 1999), requirements. Entities which have implemented awareness of its staff. In addition to enhancing the entities of the PGNiG Group are – in terms of enviEMS pay less in environmental charges and benefit Company’s image and credibility, EMS provide a ronmental protection – among the best positioned from lower insurance premiums. Proper identificanumber of other, purely economic benefits. and most reliable companies not only in Poland, tion of risks related to industrial failure may rebut also on international markets (Denmark, Norduce the probability of its occurrence or eliminate way, Egypt, Pakistan, Libya and Mongolia). The the risk altogether, thus saving the cost of damage ability to properly manage its environmental removal. impacts through efficient systems benefits the Company’s image while bringing down its operating costs, thanks to rational use of raw and other materials, more efficient use of infrastructure, reduction of emissions and waste, as well as costs of waste management, lower energy and water consumption and related costs. 7. Natural environment 84/ 207 Objective I Environment Management System certificates held by the PGNiG Group entities (in 2010) Date of implementation/ To date, as many as three-fourths of the PGNiG Organisational unit certification Date of certificate renewal Group’s subsidiaries and branches have implemented, obtained certificates for and maintained Head Office July 2009 environmental management systems (EMS) based Odolanów Branch May 2003 December 2009 on the PN-EN ISO 14001 standard, often integrated Sanok Branch November 2004 November 2010 with other systems, such as quality assurance, occupational health and safety and information Zielona Góra Branch April 2002 August 2008 protection systems. Only the Gas Trading Divisions Dolnośląska Spółka Gazownictwa May 2005 July 2008 and ZUN Naftomet Krosno have not implemented EMS yet. In the first half of 2010, work was well Górnośląska Spółka Gazownictwa October 2004 October 2010 advanced on the implementation of an EMS sysPomorska Spółka Gazownictwa SA December 2005 June 2008 tem compliant with the PN-EN ISO 14001 standard at Wielkopolska Spółka Gazownictwa (WSG). MaKarpacka Spółka Gazownictwa September 2009 zowiecka Spółka Gazownictwa (MSG) has started Mazowiecka Spółka Gazownictwa SA implementation in progress preparations to the implementation process. In Wielkopolska Spółka Gazownictwa SA implementation in progress 2010, ten organisational units of the PGNiG Group required to renew the EMS certification fulfilled Geofizyka Kraków* November 2001 May 2008 the relevant requirements and obtained renewals. Geofizyka Toruń* Styczeń 2004 January 2008 The only exception was Pomorska Spółka Gazownictwa (PSG), which – as the year before – decided Poszukiwania Nafty i Gazu Kraków* November 2009 not to renew the certificate, despite having in Poszukiwania Nafty i Gazu Jasło* November 2001 December 2010 place an operational EMS. Poszukiwania Nafty i Gazu NAFTA-Piła* June 2000 December 2010 Poszukiwania Naftowe „Diament” August 2003 January 2010 ZRG Krosno November 2005 October 2010 BUG Gazobudowa Zabrze September 2001 October 2010 BN Naftomontaż December 2004 October 2010 ZRUG of Pogórska Wola May 2006 May 2010 GAZOPROJEKT December 1999 December 2008 INVESTGAS December 2001 December 2010 * Units with the HSE (Health, Safety and Environment) management system in place. 7. Natural environment 85/ 207 A list of identified and assessed environmental impacts forms the basis for setting environmental Objective II The companies place emphasis on preventing occupational and environmental accidents through objectives within the EMS in place. Thus, proper development, implementation and compliance arrangement of this area is among the key factors To u s e e l e m e n t s o f E M S t o with rules and requirements in the area of occupasupporting analyses at all the Group companies meet requirements of the HSE tional safety, preventive health care and environand identification of areas of special interest for management system mental protection, which far exceed mandatory oil and gas mining. Accordingly, the PGNiG Group’s legal regulations. Sustainable Development and Responsible BusiTo maintain their strong position and reliability on ness Strategy for 2009 – 2015 provides, in the enviinternational markets, the PGNiG Group entities Importantly, the companies oblige their sub-conronment area, for development of uniform criteria have to meet the requirements of the HSE (Health, tractors to comply with the same rules and requirefor identification and assessment of the Group’s Safety and Environment) management system, ments. The drilling rigs of PGNiG Jasło, operating environmental impacts. In 2010, initiatives were which combines occupational health and safety both in Poland and abroad, may serve as an example undertaken supporting the pursuit of this operawith environmental protection aspects, promoting of such best practices. The HSE management system tional objective. Given the uniform business profile innovative organisational and technological soluimplemented by that company is based on guideof all Gas Distribution Companies, plans provide tions. The PGNiG Group companies which operlines issued by OGP International Association of Oil for the implementation of the first phase of work ate abroad or cooperate with foreign partners in & Gas Producers. Another example is the best pracdesigned to establish uniform identification methPoland meet the most stringent international HSE tice followed by PNiG Kraków, which – in addition ods and assessment criteria for environmental requirements, whose procedures guarantee that to the HSE management system – has implemented impacts. their operations are as safe as possible, primarily the Safety Training Observation Programme (STOP), for the lives and health of those directly involved, whose key features include periodic risk assessment but also for local communities, and as harmless as and prediction, as well as promotion of occupational possible for the environment. safety awareness among employees. Equally important is the staff’s awareness of environmental issues, Initiatives/Best practices which brings fruit in the form of good relations with local communities and customers. Currently, a HSE management system is fully operational at four Group companies, and PNiG Nafta The PGNiG Group’s Corporate Social ResponsibilPiła has in place an HSE manual, which includes a ity Strategy provides for continued use of EMS policy and describes operating procedures in the elements in meeting the requirements of the HSE area of health, safety and environment protection. management system. Moreover, in 2010, based The company uses the remaining portion of the on the experience gathered by the Group entities HSE documentation for the purposes of its occuwhich have an HSE management systems in place, pational health and safety/fire protection procePGNiG’s Head Office commenced work aimed to dures, as well as the Environment Management develop an HSE manual, which will serve as a set System, and, whenever needed, supplements it to of standards to be followed by all entities of the meet the requirements of individual contractors. PGNiG Group. 7. Natural environment 86/ 207 Objective III To e d u c a t e a n d r a i s e environmental awareness It takes vast knowledge and experience to meet environmental protection requirements, in particular because of the evolving environmental protection laws, but also the growing importance of environmental issues. But the PGNiG Group boasts excellent staff, who have relevant education and Being a mature and self-aware organisation, we many years of experience in the field. In addition, do not limit ourselves to these activities. We also PGNiG seeks to ensure that all the Group employendeavour to improve environmental awareness ees are properly educated in the field of environamong our customers, by promoting our product, mental protection. natural gas, as a source of environment-friendly Initiatives/Best practices energy. Young people are also an important addressee of our efforts. Karpacka Spółka GazownIn 2010, specialist environmental protection trainictwa (KSG) may serve as an example of our ing covered over 1,185 persons, and the total cost involvement in projects undertaken with a view of the training and degree programmes in envito protecting animals: KSG has been co-financing ronmental protection amounted to nearly PLN 174 a research programme concerning a species in thousand. Our CSR strategy provides for condanger of extinction, the Polish lynx (whose poputinuous efforts designed to raise environmental lation in our country is currently estimated at 200) awareness. Knowledge about the natural environand supporting programmes designed to create ment, gathered not only by the personnel specialproper habitats for lynxes kept at zoological garising in environmental protection but also by the dens or rehabilitation centres. other employees, helps to develop rational attitudes and behaviour in this area. Consistent efforts to build environmental awareness contribute to an actual improvement of the quality of the environment. Therefore, at the PGNiG Group, environmental education is an overarching objective, pursued through participation in training covering a broad range of topics and supported with modern communications tools, as well as other initiatives. 7. Natural environment 87/ 207 Objective IV To t a k e i n t o a c c o u n t environmental criteria when selecting new investment projects, solutions and technologies Mitigating environmental impact In most cases, industrial activity involves environThe PGNiG Group entities seek to continually •• adverse effect on the quality of soil and water mental impacts. They are usually harmful to the reduce: by using seals on land surface where waste, environment: air pollution, water contamination, •• emissions of pollutants generated in the course hazardous substances and chemicals are depletion of drinking water resources and reduced of the Company’s core business operations; stored; protections under crude oil and formabiodiversity. For centuries, especially in the indus•• emissions of noise generated during the operation water tanks; treatment of drilling waste trial era, man used the environment only to satisfy tion of production equipment, pressing plants (i.e. rock cuttings) and its separation from mud; his needs. However, the emergence of the first and pressure reduction stations; and use of equipment monitoring pollutants in material side effects of such irrational manage•• amounts of generated waste, which is to a waste; and ment of natural resources brought about a gradularge extent recovered or – in the case of par•• effect on vegetation cover and animals al change in attitudes. ticularly hazardous waste – neutralised; through limited tree clearance, protecting •• water consumption and wastewater generaroot systems during earthwork and (thanks to Initiatives which are currently undertaken on tion through, among other things, mud recovstate-of-the art technologies) reducing noise numerous different levels have a single common ery and use of an effective in-house system for emissions, vibrations and contamination during purpose of eliminating or reducing the adverse injecting formation water, produced together breeding and mating seasons. effects of human activity. This is consistent with with hydrocarbons, back into the same geothe sustainable growth principle, which provides logical formations; for such growth that enables the needs of today’s •• surface area of land covered by exploration generation to be satisfied without depriving future and production operations, by limiting areas generations of the ability to satisfy theirs. Such occupied by equipment and installations; thinking drives the PGNiG Group’s pro-environmental initiatives. 7. Natural environment 88/ 207 Objective IV Initiatives/Best practices The PGNiG Group’s subsidiaries and branches methane emissions by the mining sector, uniform have implemented internal and external systems emission indicators have been developed, and for gas quality control as part of their effort to work is underway in the gas sector to arrive at a We counteract climate change reduce greenhouse gas emissions, but also use single settlement methodology with respect to gas by controlling greenhouse gas their ISO 17025-compliant laboratories to conduct emissions to be employed by all gas companies. emissions measurements and comparative analysis, conOur Group strives to reduce emissions of greentrol and validate the correct operation of process house gases and other gas and dust emissions chromatographs, use internal spreadsheets for into the air by using gas as a low-emission fuel, CO2 emission volume calculation, and upgrade gas by monitoring the consumption of fuels, by reconsumption metering systems. With respect to ducing energy consumption and by upgrading or replacing sources of heat used internally. For more information on measures we take to reduce emissions (insulation of buildings, modification of gas networks and boiler houses, construction of CO2 emission volumes (in Mg) generated in 2010 by the PGNiG Group’s installations covered by EU ETS cogeneration units) see the section on investment National Emission Emissions 2010 projects, upgrades and overhauls. Allocation Plan allocated emissions Available Installation Number (in Mg) (in Mg) (in Mg) The existing laws on control and reduction of KPMG Mogilno PL-898-08 26,642 8,962 17,680 greenhouse gas emissions made it necessary to introduce CO2 emission monitoring and reporting PGNiG S.A. Odolanów Branch PL-562-05 11,181 13,656 -2,475 by those PGNiG subsidiaries and branches which PGNiG S.A. Odolanów Branch PL-950-08 30,495 29,221 1,274 are covered by the European Union Emission Trading Scheme (EU ETS). PGNiG S.A. Zielona Góra Branch Dębno Oil and Gas Production Facility PL-563-05 31,664 29,865 1,799 99,982 81,704 18,278 7. Natural environment 89/ 207 Objective IV needs, remained at a steady level relative to previous years (see chart on the right – logarithmic scale). However, in 2010 the Group saw a year-onMethane emission volumes generated by the PGNiG Group’s operations in 2008-2010 (in Mg) year increase in carbon dioxide (90%) nitrogen oxides (60% – in NO2 equivalent) and dust emissions. 2010 39,600 The change is attributable to a significant increase in gas production by PGNiG branches. 2009 40,385 2008 37,306 Total volume of main gas pollutants released into the air in 2008 – 2010 In 2010, the total volume of methane emissions 2010 Carbon generated by the PGNiG Group’s operations de2009 monoxide creased by 2% year on year (see chart on the left) 2008 and amounted to 39,600.093 Mg. The change is mainly attributable to lower distribution losses (down by over 1 million cubic metres of gas), Nitrogen dioxide which translated into a 14% decrease in methane emissions. In 2010, emissions of primary gas pollutants, such Sulphur dioxide as methane, sulphur dioxide, and carbon monoxide, which are generated chiefly by combustion of fuels by sources of heat and energy for process Carbon dioxide 10 10,000 7. Natural environment 90/ 207 Objective IV Intake of surface and subsurface water in 2008 – 2010, by source (in thousands of cubic metres) 438.73 330.66 2010 Water consumption and 467.68 312.89 wastewater generation 2009 The deficit and deteriorating quality of water from 511.79 300.00 domestic sources represent an important problem 2008 for the PGNiG Group in terms of qualitative and economic aspects, as well as environmental proWater from water supply tection, which is why steps aiming to protect wanetwork ter resources are of vital importance. The objective of the PGNiG Group is to: Water from the Group’s intake •• constantly limit black and grey water volumes, points (surface and subsurface) •• rationally manage water resources used in industrial processes, The PGNiG Group branches and companies draw consumption observed from year to year are con•• improve operations by reusing resources, such water from their own underground intake points nected primarily with the amount of process waas formation water. or water supply systems. Water is drawn mainly ter used, i.e. the number of exploration and investto cater to social needs and, to a lesser extent, ment projects executed. for technological processes. Changes in water Formation water generated in 2008 – 2010 (in thousands of cubic metres) 185.26 2010 150.97 166.51 2009 134.29 172.17 Generated formation water 2008 125.70 Formation water injected into rock mass 7. Natural environment 91/ 207 Objective IV Volumes of wastewater generated in 2008 – 2010, by place of discharge (in thousands of cubic metres) 29.12 2010 490.96 30.36 2009 499.53 The chart shows the total volume of wastewater discharged into the sewage system, transported to 38.70 2008 the treatment plants from the Group’s septic tanks 438.56 and discharged into surface water or soil. Discharge to surface water and soil In 2010, the volume of wastewater discharged into water, soil and the sewage system fell. System discharge In 2010, consumption of water from the water supply network fell from 467.70 thousand cubic metres to 438.73 thousand cubic metres, while the intake of water from our own intake points slightly increased. Wastewater generated by the PGNiG Group’s subsidiaries and branches is discharged to the sewage system (under contracts with water supply and sewage collection operators), or to surface waters or soil (in compliance with existing water permits) following their pre-treatment or full treatment at the Group’s site wastewater treatment plants. Grey and black water, as well as industrial wastewater, is discharged into the sewage system. Rainwater collected on the premises and access roads is either discharged into the sewage system or to surface waters and soil. 7. Natural environment 92/ 207 Objective IV Waste Waste disposal in 2008 – 2010, by method (in %) The objective of waste management at the Group’s entities is to recycle waste or minimise its volume. 7.89 76.07 16.05 2010 All members of the Group follow their own waste management programmes, while entities having 15.39 69.09 15.52 2009 EMS in place use waste management procedures. Following the procedures, the Group has managed 3.18 66.41 30.41 2008 to: •• identify environmental impacts related to Storage Treatment Recovery waste, i.e. determine all areas where waste is generated, •• determine a method for minimising volumes of waste, including, in the first place, waste sent to landfill sites (unsorted municipal waste only). The procedures set out different methods of waste disposal. Precedence is given to waste recovery (limited only by the availability of processing technologies for particular types of waste and, sometimes, by financial constraints), followed by waste sorting, as it provides waste ready for recycling. Waste which, due to process considerations, needs In 2010, a total of 97.5 thousand Mg of waste was to be neutralised, is handled by specialist providgenerated by the entire PGNiG Group, excluding ers holding required licences. Each entity supermunicipal waste sent for recovery, neutralisation vises proper selection of contractors. or deposited at landfills. 7. Natural environment 93/ 207 Objective IV Drilling waste disposal in 2008 – 2010 (in thousands Mg) 15.1 9.7 36.6 2010 6.0 2.1 55.7 2009 21.7 9.6 50.1 2008 Storage Treatment Recovery The total amount of waste generated annually by Drilling waste also includes process water mixed the PGNiG Group entities depends primarily on with drilling mud, cement slurry and other fluids the amount of drilling waste generated by Explofrom well treatments. ration Companies. Drilling waste, which consists of rock cuttings and drilling mud generated durIn 2010, 15 thousand Mg of drilling waste was ing oil or gas well drilling, accounted for approx. landfilled. Most of it was deposited at the Group’s 60% of all waste generated by the PGNiG Group own landfill site, which meets all legal requirein 2010 (including unsorted municipal waste), i.e. ments. In 2010, 60% of all drilling waste was dis11% less than in 2009. Bits of rock are separated posed of, i.e. 19 thousand Mg less than in 2009. from drilling mud on vibrating screens or with use of other devices, such as desanders or desilters. Waste drilling mud is generated when rotary mud is exchanged for another kind (as required by the drilling technology) or when a borehole is completed and drilling fluid is no longer necessary. 7. Natural environment 94/ 207 Objective IV PGNiG Group’s projects for which environmental conditions were determined in 2010, located at or nearby Natura 2000 sites Projects which may significantly impact the environment and Natura 2000 sites When carrying out projects that may significantly impact the environment or Natura 2000 sites, the PGNiG Group members follow the applicable laws and implement solutions aimed to mitigate their environmental impact, as well as impact on the species and habitats protected as part of the Natura 2000 network. Before a project is launched, an environmental impact report or a report on its impact on Natura 2000 sites is drawn up, whenever such requirement is imposed directly by law or by a competent authority determining conditions for project approval. If necessary, decisions on environmental conditions for project approval or decisions regarding conditions for project approval with respect to its impact on Natura 2000 sites impose obligations aimed at preventing, mitigating, and monitoring the project’s impact on the environment. Modern technological solutions and mitigation measures make it possible to carry out projects at ­Natura 2000 sites and in their vicinity without a material negative impact on protected species and habitats. In 2010, 25 projects located at or nearby 73 Natura 2000 sites were approved for implementation by Projects competent authorities. Exploration and appraisal of oil and gas Natura 2000 sites 7. Natural environment 95/ 207 Summary In 2010, the research covered: •• emissions of pollutants into the air (periodical We comply with environmental logging of emissions of process pollutants into protection laws and have a the air); clean environmental record •• the quality of surface and subsurface waters All organisational units making up the PGNiG (analyses of water sampled from wells with the •• the state of the soil and water environment Group hold the relevant permits and approvuse of piezometer); (analyses carried out as part of the pre/post als to use the environment. They are renewed •• the quality of wastewater, rainwater and meltdrilling environment monitoring, analyses or replaced as soon as material changes in the ing snow (analyses of grey and black water carried out as part of drilling waste landfill subsidiaries’ operations are introduced, or if such sampled from septic tanks, physical and chemmonitoring, soil analyses for presence of indigrenewals or replacements are required under any ical analyses of rainwater and melting snow enous bacteria and their possible use in in situ amended laws and regulations. that are piped to municipal storm drains, and bioremediation); BOD analyses of industrial wastewater); •• noise levels (drilling rig and air-conditioning In 2010, and in previous years, no environmental noise). Pro-environmental projects, new techfines were imposed on PGNiG Group members, nologies, investment projects, upgrades.. despite numerous inspections carried out by regional inspectors for environmental protection and district mining authorities. Research and monitoring Environmental research is conducted by the PGNiG Group to meet the requirements imposed by binding laws and regulations. It is also a valuable source of information, as it enables our branches and companies to acquire data and information used to develop documentation, statements and report, as well as to plan environmental activities. Analysis and monitoring of the environment also allows us to determine its condition before, during, and after the execution of particular proCost of environmental research at the PGNiG Group in 2008 – 2010 (PLNm) jects. Additionally, measures are taken to ensure compliance with environmental conditions defined 2010 1.94 in the relevant decisions and permits held by the Group, and as part of environmental monitoring or 2009 2.28 assessment. 2008 1.25 7. Natural environment 96/ 207 Pro-environmental projects, new technologies, investment projects, upgrades The PGNiG Group undertakes a number of proenvironmental projects. This is actually one of the •• purchase of power generators to work at directions of our business development – conoil rig installations and new highly efficient struction and opening of new CNG filling stations, engines, but also other projects equally important for the •• redesign of installations used for desulphurisaenvironment. One the one hand, they are connecttion of natural gas and crude oil and for waste ed with the daily operations of the Group compainjection at petroleum production sites, nies and relate for instance to buying gas-fuelled •• upgrade of formation water installations and vehicles, installation of sun collectors or insulawell installations, and well workover to enable tion of buildings. On the other hand, our care for injection of formation water into native rock the environment is manifest in how we run our mass, business, e.g. in our purchase of equipment for •• construction and upgrades of gas-fired boiler Our overhaul projects include primarily overhauls vacuum feeding of natural gas into gas pipelines houses and co-generation systems with a view of gas-fired boilers, measurement apparatus and or working on gas pipelines in air-tight conditions. to limiting emissions from energy-generation irrigation systems, insulation of buildings, modernOther activities that can be classified into this catsources, isation of sewage systems, dewatering systems, egory include: •• replacement of cast-iron gas pipelines with PE control rooms, etc. •• purchase and assembly of double-wall fuel ones. tanks, shakers, vacuum degasifiers, centriIn 2010, our pro-environmental projects were fuges, washers, oil containers, water tanks, focused on air pollution prevention. The highest mud tanks, rock cutting and wastewater tanks, expenditures in this area were incurred by Gas reservoir water tanks, methanol tanks, etc., Distribution Companies, and related to the con•• construction and modernisation of sanitary struction of new pipelines and replacement of sewage systems, wastewater treatment plants, old cast-iron pipelines with PE ones, which limit and washing stations where separators of oil methane emissions into the air, as well as the derivatives are applied, as well as maintenance introduction of pipelines into areas which had not of treatment plants, yet been covered with a gas network, which will •• purchase of sorbents, neutralising agents, and result in further lowering of emissions. Expendifoil to be used under tank stations, tures were also made on purchase of equipment enabling work on pipelines in air-tight conditions, purchase of CNG-powered vehicles, construction of storm drains, and systems for removal and prepurification of rain water and melting snow from our facilities. 7. Natural environment 97/ 207 Exploration Companies posted the second largest containers, purchase linear screens, water and financial outlays, which were allocated to air pollumud tanks, sound proofing, waste treatment and tion prevention, wastewater management, water incineration plants. The aggregate amount of protection and waste management, and used to capital expenditure made by all the PGNiG Group purchase mud pumps, insulate drilling rig sites, entities exceeded PLN 70m.. install liquid-tight floorings in oil and lubricant Expenditures on investment and upgrade projects in the environmental area, and costs of overhauls in 2008 – 2010 (PLNm) 7.98 2010 34.01 70.62 2.75 2009 11.06 In 2010, upgrade projects focused primarily on In 2010, total expenditure on overhaul work in17.77 air pollution prevention and on protection of soil curred by all the PGNiG Group entities was close and underground water. Projects executed by Gas to PLN 8m and related primarily to overhauls and 3.22 Distribution Companies included reconstruction repairs of boiler-houses and networks, insulation 2008 18.52 of boiler-houses, replacement of central heating of building and removal of asbestos-cement tiles 25.33 boilers, upgrades of loaders in gas odourising sysfrom roofs. tems, and wastewater treatment plants; projects Overhauls executed by Production Branches included sealUpgrades ing and anti-corrosion protection of installations Pro-environmental projects at production facilities to prevent leakage of gas, gasoline, formation water and methanol, as well as application of air-tight sealing to the refilling process; while projects executed by other companies included insulation of buildings and reconstruction of boiler-houses. Total expenditure on upgrade projects incurred by all the PGNiG Group entities exceeded PLN 34m. 7. Natural environment 98/ 207 7.1. Unconventional gas and environmental protection The first drilling for shale gas (Markowola-1) was “In the period October 2009–August 2010, work In July 2010, two stimulation (hydraulic fracturcarried out in the Sanok Branch area, in the Lublin aimed to investigate Upper Carboniferous and ing) treatments were carried out (along with preregion in July 2010, where also the first two hyDevonian formations was carried out within a treatment tests) within two perforation intervals draulic fracturing operations in unconventional gas licence area located in Central and Eastern Poland (3,486 – 3,491 metres and 3,462 – 3,467 metres), deposits took place. (the Pionki-Kazimierz licence No. 48/2001/p), with to enable observation of potential gas flow. The a view to identifying potential oil and gas deposits. results were negative, as there was no evidence Below are presented parts of the “Legal compliof gas accumulation sufficient for commercial ance assessment and environmental impact asIn an effort to accomplish the above objective, in exploitation. sessment of procedures carried out to drill the the period October 2009 – April 2010, an exploraMarkowola-1 well for the purpose of oil and gas tion borehole (Markowola-1) was drilled in Zwola, Irrespective of the fact that the exploration boreexploration and appraisal, including procedures Commune of Gniewoszów, County of Kozienice. hole was drilled primarily to identify potential designed to examine the potential presence of The total depth of the borehole was 4,500 metres presence of conventional gas in the formation, the natural gas in unconventional deposits” commis(Lower Devonian formations). hydraulic fracturing procedures carried out in the sioned from the Polish Geological Institute by the borehole in search of unconventional hydrocarbon Ministry of Environment: deposits were one of the first procedures of this kind to be undertaken in Poland. 7. Natural environment 99/ 207 In order to assess the effectiveness of those measures, the investor ordered two series of measurements to assess the condition of the abiotic environment on and around the drilling rig site, before and after the drilling and stimulation treatThe contractor secured all decisions and permits ments. Geophysical analyses were performed to for the project, as required under the legal regime determine methane concentration in soil, subsoil, applicable as at the date on which the application ground water and soil air. was submitted. The contractor met the conditions set forth in the decisions. As part of this assessment, all activities performed The drilling, fracturing and formation testing work during the research and appraisal work were was carried out within an area of approximately thoroughly analysed. The analysis covered deci1.1ha, temporarily excluded from agricultural sions and permits secured by the contractor, as use. The contractor took steps to eliminate or well as the available technical documentation (the minimise the impact of the drilling work on the geological survey plan, operation plan, drilling environment (in particular, soil, subsoil, surface plan, stimulation treatment plans, geotechnical and underground water), as well as to control gas formation testing plans). The collected documents and flue gas emissions, noise levels and amounts provided a basis for examination of the adminof waste, in accordance with the applicable legal istrative and execution procedures. The analysis regulations. revealed that – out of concern for proper execution of work, including mitigation of its adverse environmental impact – the contractor resorted to a number of procedures in excess of standard formal requirements, such as preand post-drilling examination of components of the environment (November 2009 and 2010). 7. Natural environment 100/ 207 In order to assess a possible adverse impact of the drilling work and stimulation treatments on the ground and water environment, physico-chemical examination and granulometric analysis of soil Conclusions and subsoil were carried out in the vicinity of the drilling rig and liquid fuel storage tanks. Collected Based on a review of the documentation submitsamples were tested to determine the content of ted by the contractor for the work carried out in heavy metals (Er, Ni, Pb), mineral oils and chlothe period October 2009-November 2010 within rides. Both series of measurements revealed that the area covered by the Pionki-Kazimierz licence the levels of all tested substances did not exceed (Markowola-1 borehole), aimed to assess legal levels permissible for agricultural land (in line with compliance and environmental impact of the prothe Minister of Environment’s Regulation of Sepcedures performed, the following key conclusions tember 9th 2002, concerning soil and land quality can be drawn: standards (Dz. U. No. 165, item 1359)). Moreover, 1) The procedures applied in the decision-making the preand post-drilling results were not signifiprocess were compliant with then applicable cantly different. The area around the drilling rig legal regime. was examined for methane content in the soil air 2) The analyses performed show that the drillat the depth of 1.2 – 1.5 metres. None of the 30 The following parameters of water were exing work and stimulation (hydraulic fracturing) probes revealed methane content large enough amined: pH, electrical conductivity, taste, smell, treatments did not have any adverse effect on to be detected by means of the applied measureconcentration of chlorides, nitrates, nitrites, amthe examined components of the environment, ment method (GA 2000 Plus biogas meter) before monium, mineral oils, chromium, barium, lead, as no significant changes were observed in the work commenced or after it ended. The conpotassium, iron and manganese. The results were such components after the work was completdition of water in the locally used water-bearing compared to class limits specified in the Minister ed, as compared to their original condition. horizons was examined on the basis of samples of Environment’s Regulation concerning the critaken from three nearby wells. teria and methods of underground water assessment (Dz. U. No. 143, item 896). In both measurement series, the majority of tested parameters fell within the limits corresponding to class I and II of underground water quality (very good and good quality). The results obtained before and after drilling do not indicate any hydro-chemical anomalies in tested water samples. Prepared by a team composed of: Magdalena Krawczyk, Bogusław Kurowski, Sebastan Latanowicz, Magdalena Legawiec and Employees of the Environmental Protection Office at the PGNiG Head Office. 7. Natural environment 101/ 207 Commitments for the future Strategic pillar Operational objectives Detailed objectives for next period Objective 1: to implement, maintain and enhance the •• Implementation of EMS at further PGNiG Group entities environment management systems (EMS) •• Further work to develop uniform criteria for identification and assessment of environmental impacts Objective 2: To use elements of EMS to meet HSE •• Incorporation of elements of EMS into HSE systems requirements Objective 3: To educate and raise environmental •• Training awareness •• Educational initiatives and campaigns •• Promotion of pro-environmental solutions Objective 4: To take into account environmental criteria •• Introduction of modern, environmentally-friendly technologies when selecting new investment projects, •• Overhauls and upgrades designed to deliver environmental Conducting business solutions and technologies benefits responsibly, with due •• Further development of procedures for planning, preparation regard to the natural and execution of investment projects, upgrades and overhauls to environment account for environmental aspects Objective 5: To improve EIA procedures at each stage of •• Development of uniform assessment methods and analysis of operations environmental risks in all areas of the Company’s value chain Objective 6: To reduce atmospheric emissions through •• Expansion of the CNG station network and promotion of CNG as wide use of natural gas vehicle fuel •• Promotion of new applications of gas as a low-emission fuel (power sector) Objective 7: To establish uniform environmental •• Adaptation of Group-wide reporting methods used to report protection reporting standards with environmental components and the impact of the Group’s reference to the Group’s internal reporting operations on the environment to market requirements and systems commonly applied standards 102/ 207 8. Workplace Employees are treated as the Group’s most valuable asset – both in business and social terms. The Company cares about their needs, while trying to foster team spirit, motivation and commitment. It is our goal to make every PGNiG employee realise that they can count on the Company, that they can develop here, and know that it is the best workplace they could wish for. Marta Cydejko Human Resources and Training Office Director Corporate Services Department 8. Workplace 103/ 207 Tasks completed The intention to make PGNiG a safe and friendly workplace underpins all the objectives and activities defined in the Group’s Sustainable Development and 62 R e s p o n s i b l e B u s i n e s s S t r a t e g y. Our activities are governed by two priorities: safety of employees (a vital thing in our industry) and ambitious development plans relating to under way new innovative projects, which require the Group’s employees to constantly improve their skills and qualifications. We make systemic efforts to enhance PGNiG’s organisational 118 culture, bearing in mind that the values of responsible business should form the basis of all our undertakings. delayed 34 8. Creation of a safe and friendly Workplace 104/ 207 Objective Objective Objective Objective I II III IV Effects Improvement of HSE Statistics 80% of PNiG by Enhancing the System’s Effectiveness Kraków’s drilling crews took part in the STOP programme. As a result, the Reporting of Near-Miss employees’ Incidents at PGNiG Sanok awareness of Mock alerts to test emergency Branch responsible procedures in case of leakage behaviour was in the facility containing gas raised by 88%. with hydrogen sulphide content, carried out at PGNiG Sanok Branch In 2010, 18 incident reports were submitted under the NearMiss Incident Programme at The STOP Programme PGNiG Sanok Occupational Health at PNiG Kraków Branch. and Safety Guidance at PGNiG Sanok 100 employees Branch of ZRG Krosno The “Warning! Fire!” took part in (“UWAGA Pożar”) fire protection Programme seminarsj. 8. Workplace 105/ 207 Objective Objective Objective Objective I II III IV Focus on the Development of Employees’ Competencies/ Learning Organisation Effects Development of “soft” skills of management 15 students staff completed their Specialist occupational first year of study training, grants to co-finance for gas engineering higher education and foreign qualifications language courses in Zespół Szkół Ponadgimnazjalnych (Secondary School Complex) in Kościan. Improvement in “soft” skills of m a n a g e m e n t s t a f f. Increased awareness of the importance The IN-OUT of sustainable Programme development among PGNiG employees. 8. Workplace 106/ 207 Objective Objective Objective Objective Effects I II III IV 60% of employees of Karpacka Spółka Gazownictwa took part in an initiative Employer Branding designed to support colleagues (Employer of Choice) affected by the flood. PLN 262,825.3 was The “I want to help” the amount of (“Chcę pomóc”) initiative financial support given to employees Employee satisfaction affected by the survey flood. 915 persons were examined under the “For Starters, Do a Check-up” (“Badanie na Śniadanie”) initiative, Benefits package and carried out by focus on employees’ Pomorska Spółka health Gazownictwa. Over 50% of PGNiG employees participated in the first Satisfaction S u r v e y. 8. Workplace 107/ 207 Objective Objective Objective Objective I II III IV Introduction of Uniform Internal Communication Standards, Development of a Shared Corporate Culture Effects Development of the Code of Values for PGNiG Group employees. Shared intranet CSR Report for 2010 prepared jointly by all CSR coordinators of the PGNiG Group. Workshops and meetings for communicators devoted to the Code of Ethics 8. Workplace 108/ 207 Objective I Total headcount by employment type, employment contract and region Improvement of HSE statistics Type Total Percent by enhancing the system’s Full time 31115 95.94 effectiveness Part time 150 0.46 Temporary employment contract, piecework contact, traineeship 1166 3.60 Total 32431 Ensuring a safe workplace, which involves the provision of safety training to employees, is one of Category Type Total Percent the PGNiG Group’s major objectives. As fieldwork Employment contract 31562 96.44 at drilling rigs and production sites entails signifiTemporary employment contract 1093 3.34 cant risks, PGNiG uses its best efforts to counteract Type of contract Piecework contract 53 0.16 potential hazards. By analysing the number and Graduate traineeship 20 0.06 causes of accidents, we can improve prevention Total 32728 100.00 methods. The Group’s biggest success in that area is a very low number of industry-related accidents (a trend observed for many years) and rare occurProvince Total workforce rence of the most severe accidents. Province of Wrocław 26 Province of Bydgoszcz 40 The circumstances and causes of most accidents Province of Lublin 35 indicate that industry specific work (geological Province of Zielona Góra 55 work, gas and oil exploitation and operation of gas networks) is not the major source of accidents Province of Łódź 22 (or the place where most accidents occur). Thanks Province of Kraków 75 to considerable capital expenditures, innovative Province (or country – if Province of Warsaw 248 technologies/equipment and organisational efwork is performed abroad) Province of Opole 1 of temporary employment forts, the basic risk of industry related accidents contracts and piecework Province of Rzeszów 320 has been significantly reduced, and the work’s contracts Province of Białystok 2 negative impact on the environment (noise, vibraProvince of Gdańsk 33 tions, dust) has in many cases been minimised, or Province of Katowice 106 even eliminated. Province of Kielce 1 Province of Olsztyn, Province of Białystok 12 Province of Poznań 27 Province of Szczecin 21 8. Workplace 109/ 207 Objective I Category Province/Country Total workforce Province of Wrocław 2,234 Province of Bydgoszcz 1,558 Province of Lublin 998 In 2010, most accidents happened to employees Province of Zielona Góra 1,801 performing simple, uncomplicated tasks, walking Province of Łódź 882 about the Company’s premises, or during manual Province of Kraków 5,116 or road transport of materials. A worrying trend is Province of Warsaw 2,236 the growth in the number of collective accidents, Province of Opole 434 mainly in road traffic. Over the recent years, inProvince of Rzeszów 5,036 cluding 2010, accidents have most often occurred Province of Gdańsk 1,299 in workshops, during construction and assemProvince of Katowice 3,285 bly work, administration and office work, and in road traffic. Of the total number of 232 accidents Province of Kielce 601 in 2010, 74 (31.9%) happened during the perforProvince of Olsztyn, Province of Białystok 825 mance of such activities. Province of Poznań 3,147 Province (or country – Province of Szczecin 1,253 A significant group of accidents (20 in 2010, which if work is performed Belgium 2 abroad) of employment equals 8.6%) were accidents to collection staff and contracts Belarus, Vysokoye, Tietierovka 2 installers (of gas distribution divisions only), perCzech Republic 54 forming their professional duties on customers’ Drozdovitse, Ustilug 2 private premises. Unfortunately, in this case it is Egypt 17 hard to take preventive measures. Egypt 4 India 34 Kazakhstan 389 Libya 10 Mozambique 11 Germany 40 Pakistan 86 Russia 2 Slovenia 90 Uganda 80 Ukraine 33 8. Workplace 110/ 207 Objective I Number of accidents at the PGNiG Group’s branches and companies Number of accidents at the Number of accidents at Number of accidents at the Year PGNiG Group PGNiG PGNiG Group’s companies 2010 saw one fatal accident, in which an em2006 213 16 197 ployee of Poszukiwania Nafty i Gazu Nafta Piła Sp. 2007 228 27 201 z o.o. lost his life. The accident took place at the 2008 213 21 192 Markowola-1 drilling rig installation and was di2009 215 26 189 rectly caused by the employee being unexpectedly 2010 232 30 202 hit with the metal end of a drilling mud hose. The employee fell with the force of the blow and suffered serious occipital injuries. The cause of death The accident frequency ratio equalled 7.9 per compared with other Group entities, since they was multiple internal injuries. Having analysed all 1,000 employees, while the accident severity ratio registered no accidents in the last few years. circumstances surrounding that tragic accident, amounted to 51 days of absence per one accident. we took the following steps: In comparison with 2009, the frequency ratio The Group’s branches and companies take system•• the method of drilling mud injection during was unfortunately higher, while the severity ratio atic measures to prevent accidents and improve the casing procedure was modified so as to improved. safety. Many entities have introduced Integrated minimise involvement of pressure equipment Management Systems, which confirm that the operators; The PGNiG Odolanów Branch, the Branch of management process conforms to the highest •• the instructions for well casing and cementing Central Measurement and Testing Laboratory, standards of occupational safety and health. were revised to include provisions on safe drilland BUD-GAZ of Warsaw did particularly well ing mud injection during the casing procedure; •• the floor surfaces at oil rigs and around rotary tables were fitted with anti-slip mats. Accident frequency rate at the PGNiG Group’s branches and companies in 2009 – 2010 In 2010, the PGNiG Group registered a total of 232 accidents, in which 242 employees got injured, of 3.5 2010 PGNiG SA whom: 2.9 2009 •• one employee died, •• one employee was seriously injured, •• 240 employees were slightly injured. 7.9 GK PGNiG 7.3 9.7 Spółki 9.1 8. Workplace 111/ 207 Objective I Mock alerts to test emergency procedures in case of leakage in the facility containing gas with hydrogen sulphide content, Initiatives/Best practices carried out at PGNiG Sanok Branch STOP Program, PNiG Kraków At the Tarnów I and Wierzchosławice Gas ProducAn important safety-improving project at PNiG tion Facilities, Lublin Oil and Gas Production FacilKraków is the STOP Program (Safety Training ity, as well as Swarzów Underground Gas Storage Observation Program) by DuPont. The Program Facility, where there is a risk related to the presis used for observation and analysis of unsafe ence of hydrogen sulphide, a mock alert and staff incidents and conditions occurring during work. drills in case of the gas system unsealing were It helps to stimulate appropriate employee behavcarried out. The drills were performed in line with iour. STOP is designed to improve compliance with the “Hydrogen Sulphide Incident Management the rules of safety at work and prevent injuries Procedure”. and accidents. PNiG’s long-term experience and research have shown that STOP participants are more aware about work safety and environmental In 2010, safety training courses were attended by issues, and quicker at identifying potential or real 80% of PNiG Kraków’s drilling crews. Approximatethreats. As a result, it is possible to more effectively 1,500 STOP cards were issued at the drilling rigs, ly eliminate risky behaviours or situations leading which immediately helped to eliminate numerous to accidents at work. potentially unsafe situations, as a result of which only four minor accidents at work occurred. The implementation of the STOP Program brought about the following benefits: •• A lower number of accidents resulting in absence from work and a lower number of registered unsafe incidents; •• A lower number or elimination of unsafe acts; •• An 88% increase in the awareness of importance of safety and responsible behaviour at work; •• 90% of the workforce exhibit a positive attitude to safety-at-work issues. 8. Workplace 112/ 207 Objective I Reporting of near-miss incidents, occupational health and safety guidance, PGNiG Sanok Branch Preventive measures yield the best results if employees themselves are engaged. The Sanok Branch encourages reporting of near-miss incidents by employees involved. An electronic box for registration of near misses has been set up for The “Warning! Fire!” (UWAGA this purpose. Moreover, near-miss incidents are Pożar) Programme, Zakład Robót discussed at regular health-and-safety-at-work For temporary visitors to the production site, the Górniczych Krosno meetings, attended by staff working at the proSanok Branch prepared a special leaflet providing In cooperation with the Field Office of the Associaduction facilities and other organisational units. guidance on potential hazards at particular organition of Voluntary Fire Brigades of the Republic of By encouraging our employees to report near sational units. Thanks to its instructional character, Poland in Krosno, Zakład Robót Górniczych Krosno misses, we are able to take preventive and correcthe leaflet may prove helpful to employees if a organised educational seminars on fire protective measures. In 2010, 18 reports were submitted, risky or unsafe situation occurs. tion, entitled “Warning, Fire!”. The seminars were and all issues raised by employees were solved. devoted to legal aspects related to fire protection, All employees reporting near-miss incidents are causes and spreading of fire (including events ocrewarded by the Company. curring after the consumption of alcohol or similar substances), operation of fire-fighting equipment, procedures to be followed in the event of fire, organisation of fire protection at the place of work, and technical and medical rescue service. The seminars were attended by 100 employees of Zakład Robót Górniczych Krosno. 8. Workplace 113/ 207 Objective II Focus on the development of employees’ competencies/ Learning organisation Each member company of the PGNiG Group seeks Initiatives/Best practices to enhance professional development of its staff by preparing training programmes which take into Development of soft skills of account company-specific needs and the needs management staff of its employees. Given the scale of the PGNiG For a majority of the Group companies, one of Specialist occupational training, Group’s operations, the need to constantly take up the training goals in 2010 was to enhance soft grants to co-finance higher new challenges, and the importance of staff trainskills of their management staff. The relevant education and foreign language ing and development for a socially responsible training was devoted to management of suborcourses business, ongoing professional enhancement has dinated personnel, constructive conflict solving Average number of training hours in the year become one of the priorities of PGNiG’s Sustainmethods, effective team working methods, abil(from January to December 2010) per employee, able Development Strategy. The PGNiG Group’s ity to self-motivate and motivate others, creating by employment structure employees can take advantage of a wide range a self-image. Such training courses were carried of post-graduate courses, participate in industry out, for instance, at the Lower Silesian Gas TradEmployee category Average conferences, seminars, and domestic and foreign ing Division (Wrocław Gas Sales Unit), Pomeranian A. Executive/management staff, 103.90 symposiums, take part in traineeships, are offered Gas Trading Division and Carpathian Gas Tradincluding office directors, officers, paid placement opportunities abroad, and use ing Division. The management staff of Pomorska proxies, managers modern training methods (e-learning), now being Spółka Gazownictwa (PSG), as part of the Manager introduced on a wider scale. They can enhance Academy, developed skills related to relationship B. Specialists 70.08 their foreign language skills by participating in building, interpersonal communication, teamwork, C. Blue-collar workers (including 11.71 group and individual courses. The PGNiG Group conflict solving, and management by objectives casual labour) strives to be a learning organisation, developing in (motivational). The latter project was implemented D. White-collar workers, including 39.82 a sustainable manner and brining satisfaction to its throughout PGNiG S.A. administrative staff employees, while meeting the market’s expectations. The workforce is what drives PGNiG’s business. The knowledge, competencies and skills of employees are fundamental for the Company’s success. The PGNiG Group keeps exploring new opportunities for professional improvement of its staff by identifying their training needs. 8. Workplace 114/ 207 Objective II The PGNiG Group’s employees can take advantage of various forms of supplementary education, such as foreign language courses (including individual classes), post-graduate studies, MBA courses, participation in industry meetings. At some of the Group companies, employees receive grants to finance their higher education courses, as well as travel and accommodation fares paid in connecEach Group company offers its employees spetion with their studies. As an example, two training courses of such type cific professional training, allowing them to obtain were held at Poszukiwania Nafty i Gazu Jasło: specialist knowledge or develop specific skills and Owing to the nature and specialist profile of 1) a QHSE (Quality, Health, Safety & Environment) abilities. The most important courses involved gas PGNiG’s subsidiaries, some training schemes are training course, attended by more than 70% of and electric arc welding, energy (supervision and tailor made. This applies in particular to training the workforce, i.e. almost each field worker; operation) licences, as well as geological and minfor employees of Geofizyka Kraków, Geofizyka 2) training preparing employees to perform ing supervision licences. An example at hand is Toruń, PNiG Nafta Piła and PNiG Kraków, who, uncontracts abroad (23 hours, 45 participants). the Sanok Branch, which refunds the cost of the der contracts executed by their companies, go for The course covered such issues as cultural mining law examination to its employees, as well 6 to 8 weeks to Kazakhstan, Pakistan, Libya, Ugandifferences, QHSE, and preparation to IWCF as Geofizyka Toruń, which supports its engineerda or Ukraine. The subsidiaries carry out regular (International Well Control Forum) examination. ing staff in obtaining the licences as a matter of training programmes for such employees on culThose who pass the examination obtain a cerpriority. tural differences, as this will help them not only to tificate accepted by virtually all foreign operadevelop good relations in the new environment, tors. Holding such certificates is a necessary Depending on the scope of duties, employees but also avoid risky behaviours. Training in human requirement for key drilling rig staff working (both whiteand blue-collar workers) have a rights procedures and policies is also provided at under foreign contracts. chance to participate in professional enhancement the PGNiG Group. courses required for specific positions. Training courses are selected in response to the ongoing Typically, HSE Officers are permanently present at changes on the Polish energy market and constant foreign contract sites, and they are responsible for development of the organisation. Professional ensuring strict adherence to all procedures related development training is also related to the need to health, safety and the environment. to keep abreast of changes and trends in other industries, such as IT, accounting, finance, marketing and management. Such training is arranged mainly for administrative staff. 8. Workplace 115/ 207 Objective II PNiG NAFTA organised a training course in cultural differences, addressed to employees working under the contract in Egypt. The first stage of the training took place at the operator’s offices, with the participation of service companies. The issues covered by the training included respect for lo…-OUT cal customs. All the companies were instructed on We seek to maintain relations and bonds with our how to avoid conflicts with local people or how to employees also after they retire. Retired experts in behave in various situations. Cultural and religious the trade are frequently engaged as consultants to issues characteristic of the region were discussed. the management or individual units. Their knowlAnother training was held at the drilling rig and edge of the organisation and professional experwas addressed to the entire crew. The traintise represent valuable assets. Retired employees ing was attended by PNiG NAFTA Piła employees technicians, with a view to their later employment are frequently involved in the work of industry working on the project, as well as by representaby the Company or higher education at the AGH associations, which keeps them up to date in the tives of the operator and local authorities. University of Science and Technology of Kraków. field. They are also invited to traditional celebrations of Saint Barbara’s Day on December 4th and In 2010, Wielkopolska Spółka Gazownictwa (WSG) to New Year’s meetings. Thanks to the industry IN-OUT programme followed suit when it took under its patronage gazette, our retired staff are kept informed about IN-… the education of gas engineers at the Secondthe most recent developments at their former Considering the need to educate future staff, more ary School Complex in Kościan. This year the first workplace. and more frequently the Group companies enter grade was completed by 15 students, but the into cooperation with secondary schools. A perfect new recruitment showed strong interest in the example here is Mazowiecka Spółka Gazownictwa gas engineering profile, having attracted 31 new (MSG), which, in 2009, together with Secondfirst-year students. WSG offers gas engineering ary School Complex No. 3 in Łódź started a pilot students a practical occupational course. In the fugas engineering education scheme for youth and ture, the students will be able to undertake trainadults. The school offers daily and extra-mural eeships at the Company’s Gas Distribution Regions, courses. which will give them an opportunity to familiarise themselves with the operation of the company’s A similar agreement was signed by PNiG Nafta technical divisions. After graduation, the students Piła with Stanisław Staszic School Complex in will be able to take up employment at the ComPiła, whereby both parties undertook to cooperpany’s branches. ate to ensure top-level education to drilling rig 8. Workplace 116/ 207 Objective III Initiatives/ Best Practices PGNiG’s Employee Satisfaction Employer branding (employer of Survey choice) In 2010, an employee satisfaction survey was carried out at PGNiG for the first time. The purpose of The Group aspires to build its value in accordance the survey was to find out how PGNiG’s employees with the principles of sustainable growth. To this view the Company as an employer, identify areas end, the Group places particular focus on fostering with the strongest impact on work satisfaction, an organisational culture that supports such valand indicate areas where steps must be taken to ues. While the corporate identity and organisationincrease employee satisfaction. 53% of the total al culture of the firm are created by all its employworkforce decided to take part in the survey. Conees, the role of the management staff and direct sidering that it was the first project of this type at The survey has shown that 60% of our employees superiors cannot be underestimated. Systemic PGNiG, this participation level can be considered consider working for PGNiG as highly satisfactory, measures must be put in place to eliminate undesatisfactory, while participation levels at the indiand only 2% were decidedly dissatisfied. Most of sired behaviour, while helping implement solutions vidual Gas Trading Divisions (Upper Silesian Gas our staff (64%) would definitely recommend workbenefiting the Company and its employees. Such Trading Division – 71%, Carpathian Gas Trading ing for PGNiG to their friends. measures include various internal corporate codes, Division – 70%, Pomeranian Gas Trading Division – as well as employee sentiment surveys. The PGNiG 69%) can be considered as highly satisfactory. The areas most appreciated by the employees Group is also implementing induction programmes included social benefits and working conditions, as for new hires. well as the atmosphere in their respective teams and at the whole Company. To be an employer of choice, we must focus on creating optimal conditions for development and work. If we show that we care about our people, they will reciprocate by taking care of the corporation. For more information on the satisfaction survey, see a separate section at the end of this chapter (page 127). 8. Workplace 117/ 207 Objective III In the opinion of its employees, PGNiG (%): 1 23 76 has a stable market position 1 23 76 is credible 2 25 73 is responsible 2 27 71 is a growing business 2 27 71 cares for the environment 4 32 64 is open to new solutions 3 37 60 is ethical in relations with customers and business partners 7 34 69 many of my friends would like to work here 3 38 69 supports charitable causes 4 38 68 is modern 5 37 68 is friendly to its employees 7 39 53 is open to customer needs 7 41 52 is a partner for its employees 7 41 52 engages in community affairs Bottom 3 boxes Neutral Top 3 boxes 8. Workplace 118/ 207 Objective III Below we present a detailed specification of benefits available at PGNiG, but it must be remembered that the scope of benefits varies considerably across the Group. “Employer of Choice” A unique example of our care for employees was programme, Dolnośląska Spółka the establishment of a separate financial assisGazownictwa key objectives of and values underlying the comtance scheme within the PGNiG Group to benefit “Employer of Choice”, a project initiated by pany’s HR policy, social and other employee benthose employees who suffered most severe losses Dolnośląska Spółka Gazownictwa (DSG), is an efits, development programmes for employees, during the 2010 flooding. They received assistance example of systemic measures aimed at fosteropportunities for women, priorities in ensuring from the Social Fund which, by separate decisions ing the brand’s recognition as a stable and relia safe working environment, and scope of coopof PGNiG’s Management Board, was significantly able employer, offering growth opportunities eration with higher learning institutions in Lower increased. and meeting the needs of its various internal Silesia. A separate part will feature overviews of and external stakeholders. The full implementaaccomplishments of the company’s employees, as PGNiG also cares about more distant future of its tion of the programme is spread over five years. well as functionalities for submitting inquiries and employees by covering them with the Pension Its purpose is to provide full information on the comments. Plan and paying basic contributions amounting to HR policies and recruitment principles, as well as 7% of an employee’s salary. Extra days off work facilitate on-line contact by persons interested in Additional benefits is another benefit favoured by many of our emworking for the company. The “Career with DSG” The Group employees can take advantage of a ployees. One of them falls on December 4th, that tab on the company’s website features an on-line range of additional benefits serving as incentives. is Saint Barbara’s Day (the patron saint of miners). recruitment questionnaire for graduates as poThese include a wide array of social benefits, such The other day off falls on the birthday or name tential work candidates. Information obtained in as private medical cover offered by the majority day of an employee and can be taken at any time this way is collected in an internal database of the of Group companies, an Employee Pension Plan, convenient for the employee. The third day off is HR departments at the Branches, which facilitates gift cards, financial assistance towards the cost of offered to employees whose length of service at recruitment of specialists from the labour market commuting fares, as well as participation in sports PGNiG is at least 15 years. and shortens the selection process. The tab also events. provides guidance on how to prepare to a job interview and what to include in the application documents. Once completed, the tab will include information on the company’s values and organisational culture, as well as its business profile. The tab will also contain information on job openings, 8. Workplace 119/ 207 Objective III The number of shares allotted to individual em“For Starters, Do a Check-up” – ployees varied based on their length of service at use of social funds, Pomorska the Company. Holding shares in PGNiG S.A. clearly Spółka Gazownictwa forms a stronger bond between the Company and An excellent example of an initiative financed its personnel. with social funds is the project “For Starters, Do a Check-up” (Badanie na śniadanie), developed and The benefits mentioned above, as well as other Finally, the Group also cares about employees who implemented by Pomorska Spółka Gazownictwa benefits and the employer’s obligations towards have already retired. They are entitled to the fol(PSG) to demonstrate its corporate social responemployees, are provided for in the Company’s Collowing benefits offered by the Group: sibility. Remembering that preventive healthcare lective Bargaining Agreement, which was adopted •• holiday subsidies; plays a key role in counteracting dangerous disafter many months of negotiations with the trade •• financial and in-kind assistance for persons eases, PSG invited its employees covered by the unions. The Agreement came into force in July experiencing financial hardships or health healthcare package to participate in a programme 2009. It contains such obligations as a guarantee problems; designed to prevent lifestyle diseases, including of employment for the deceased employee’s fam•• housing assistance; cancer. Since early cancer detection significantly ily member if the employee died or suffered inju•• co-funding of sports, recreation, cultural and increases the chance of successful treatment, and ries resulting in a permanent inability to work as educational activities; visiting a doctor is often postponed due to lack of a result of an accident at work or on his/her way •• the eldest and those suffering from the most time or fear, a medical test laboratory was invited /from work, higher retirement severance paysevere diseases also receive Christmas gift to the company’s premises. For a couple of days in ments, calculated as length-of-service awards, or baskets. June 2010, the employees had an opportunity (at extension of the occasional leave period by one 14 places within the company’s premises) to take day, as well as many other provisions which reIn response to the needs of our employees, reblood tests detecting ovarian or prostate cancer. ward those with a long track record at PGNiG. tirees and disability pensioners, the staff of the Social Welfare Office organises annual meetings of A special benefit is the entitlement to acquire ­PGNiG’s Management Board with retirees and disPGNiG shares free of charge (part of the workforce ability pensioners of the Head Office, which reprewas granted shares in 2009). The benefit does not sent an opportunity to brief them on our current cover all employees – pursuant to statutory prooperations and social welfare activities targeted visions, the so-called entitlement to shares was at former employees. With our retirees and disestablished at the time of PGNiG’s transformation ability pensioners in mind, we also organise trips from a state-owned enterprise into a joint-stock as well as rehabilitation holidays. Every year, on company, which took place in 1996. Persons Saint Barbara’s Day, that is the industry’s holiday, employed after that process was completed are we organise official celebration events as well as not entitled to the benefit. Nevertheless, a few get-togethers for all employees. Additionally, it has dozen thousand employees of PGNiG S.A. and the become the company’s tradition to organise eduGroup’s subsidiaries/branches, as well as eligible cational family picnics. In Warsaw alone, the 2010 retirees, did acquire PGNiG shares free of charge. picnic was attended by over 1,500 people. 8. Workplace 120/ 207 Objective III The funds were used to purchase two profesAn account dedicated to flood victims was opened sional dehumidifiers and to lease a third one at the PGNIG Foundation. The flood victims were It was not easy to overcome the psychological for a month. All the dehumidifiers were sent to also supported by the Carpathian Gas Trading barrier caused by a somewhat embarrassing situaSandomierz. Division: in the first days after the disaster struck, tion of having a blood test taken at the workplace it provided drinking water and made a donation and facing the thought of a disease, which after The above amount was increased by PLN for the primary school where flood victims were all can happen to anyone. To alleviate employ155,195.37, raised outside KSG. PLN 110,776.45 sheltered and given food. The employees of the ees’ concerns, the rules of the planned tests were was contributed by the PGNiG Head Office, PLN Carpathian Gas Trading Division also made volunbroadly communicated, with special emphasis on 25,260 by Wielkopolska Spółka Gazownictwa, PLN tary contributions. Physical help with cleaning up the importance of early disease detection, and 10,462.5 by ZKK ZOK NSZZ Solidarność (a trade and repairs also proved invaluable. The employees appropriate conditions for the tests were ensured. union) at KSG, and PLN 7,000 by the Trade Union helped those in need, by arriving after hours and The company also took care to ensure that the test Council at KSG. Financial assistance was also ofon free weekends to help them repair damaged results remained anonymous. The project attractfered by the Alpejczyk sports and recreation assohouses. In addition to financial support, flood viced 915 participants (70% of the staff). ciation and a number of external gas sector comtims were offered words of comfort and psychopanies. The aggregate amount of PLN 262,825.37 logical support – the sense of community created “I want to help” (Chcę pomóc), was distributed proportionally among all employat the time of hardship has helped forge strong Karpacka Spółka Gazownictwa ees affected by the flood at the individual branchand lasting relations between people. Voluntary initiatives, especially blood donor seses of the Gas Distribution Divisions. The employees sions, are very popular among the Group’s emof the PGNIG Head Office and Gas Distribution Diviployees. However, the sense of identification with sions in Kielce and Sandomierz organised a collecthe company and with fellow workers is also tion of cleaning products and blankets. reinforced through other projects, such as the initiative organised by Karpacka Spółka Gazownictwa (KSG) in connection with the flood that in 2010 affected the region in which the company operates. The initiative drew immediate response and support from the gas industry and the entire Group. Initially, the project involved voluntary conPLN 262,825.3 tributions by KSG employees, deducted from their base pay and donated to those affected by the was the amount we managed to raise to flood in 2010. KSG employees alone contributed as help our colleagues whose property was much as PLN 107,630. The project was supported damaged during the flood by 1,912 KSG employees (approximately 60% of all employed). An additional PLN 4,500 was raised during a few-hour lottery held at KSG’s family picnic. 8. Workplace 121/ 207 Objective IV Introduction of uniform internal at PGNiG, and the Company’s Management Board communication standards, formally approved the Code of Ethics together development of a shared with the Ethics Programme Management System. corporate culture Code of Ethics and Ethics The Code of Ethics was developed through broadFor several years, PGNiG has been making efforts Programme Management System based dialogue with various groups of employees designed to develop uniform standards of both As part of the work to build the ethical foundaand external stakeholders, representing higher internal and external communications, and imtions of our organisational culture, we comeducation institutions, NGOs and public adminprove their quality. For more detailed information, pleted the preparation of a comprehensive ethistration. We would like it to be, at least to some see the “Communication and marketing” section. ics programme for PGNiG. The objective of the extent, a “living” document, supplemented in the PGNiG’s Management Board gives priority to this programme is to introduce uniform rules and course of PGNiG’s future growth, especially where matter because – especially in the context of the standards to be followed by all employees, which it refers to standards of ethical conduct. We have implementation of the Sustainable Development in turn is expected to bring fruit in the form of also assumed that, in circumstances which are not and Responsible Business Strategy started in 2009 consistent improvement of the work environment covered by the document, our employees should – good internal communication procedures are quality, PGNiG’s credibility and reputation, while be guided primarily by PGNiG’s values and use crucial, as is the employees’ sense of accountabilinstilling trust in customers, suppliers and business common sense, and – when in doubt – contact ity for the results of their work. The implementapartners. The ethics programme is an expression their superiors or the Ethics Officer. The Code of tion of the Company-wide intranet marks a major of our deeply ingrained belief that business activEthics identifies examples of both desirable and step forward. In its final form, the tool will cover ity should be conducted to the highest standards. unacceptable conduct. In order to ensure full all PGNiG branches; in mid-2011, the first implePGNiG’s Ethics Programme Management System consistency between employees’ conduct and our mentation phase was completed at the Head Ofwas adopted by the Management Board’s resoluethical ideals, we have been implementing specific fice and the Pomeranian Gas Trading Division. tion in July 2011. instruments and procedures. It has also taken several years to develop the Code PGNiG’s Code of Ethics is the centrepiece of the First of all, a detailed programme of business ethof Ethics, which is to become an additional tool ethics programme. It comprises the Declaration ics training was prepared, encouraging employees for building the PGNiG Group’s corporate culture, of Values (an overview of fundamental values on at all levels of our organisation to reflect on their based on a set of certain common values. In 2010, which our day-to-day operations are based) and conduct and helping them to better understand another round of meetings and workshops with the Code of Ethical Standards (laying down specific our professed values and standards in the context Group employees were held to discuss the Code. rules of conduct to be followed by all employees, of day-to-day behaviour. We do believe that ethics PGNIG’s Employee Satisfaction Survey also inbased on the professed values and aligned with training is indispensable as the foundation of morcluded ethics-related questions. As a result, in the the industry’s best practices). al choices in the complex business environment. first half of 2011, an Ethics Officer was appointed 8. Workplace 122/ 207 Objective IV The formal procedure for reporting ethical breaches includes rules to be followed whenever any doubts arise with respect to planned or adopted decisions concerning co-workers, the Company or the Company’s environment. We have decided that the Code of Ethics should be the benchmark The above initiative is excellently harmonised with against which individual decisions should be asother two projects currently implemented at the sessed, and that it should be consulted while Company: launch of the Integrated Enterprise assessing decisions adopted by co-workers, subRisk Management System and a comprehensive ordinates or superiors. We have also arranged for programme for abuse risk management at PGNiG, adequate protection of “whistleblowers”, so that prepared by the audit function, and focused priThe Management Board resolved to establish no employee who, acting in good faith, reports a marily on abuse prevention and enhancement of ethics programme management structures, from breach of ethical standards to the Ethics Officer the internal control environment. Under the prodecision-making powers of the Management faces any unpleasant consequences of that comgramme, detailed projects will be developed, such Board itself, to the Ethics Committee, to the Ethics mendable behaviour. A reporting person is proas responsible leadership based on the “exampleOfficer. The Committee’s primary responsibility is tected and if they wish to remain anonymous, it is from-the-top” principle, inclusion of additional to monitor compliance with the Code of Ethics and the Company’s duty to ensure that. ethics-related criteria into recruitment and promoundertake corrective steps whenever its principles tion procedures, and a policy of zero tolerance are breached. on abuse. As early as in 2009, the Rules of Best Practice for the PGNiG Group’s Managers were In justified cases, the Ethics Committee requests adopted as part of the programme. the Management Board to take disciplinary action with respect to persons who have violated ethical Developing a well-regulated system ensuring optistandards. mum security and abuse risk mitigation is a timeconsuming process, which requires involvement of The Ethics Officer was appointed by the Manageboth the management staff and each employee. ment Board, based on suggestions obtained durWe understand that promotion of ethical attitudes ing an employee survey, as an independent and should also be supported by relevant internal impartial expert in business ethics. The Ethics control procedures, to effectively minimise both Officer, who started work in April 2011, is responinternal and external risks. This is the only way sible for promoting ethical attitudes at PGNiG S.A., of bringing the responsible business concept into by answering employees’ questions and doubts, practice. accepting reports of breaches of ethical standards and recommending changes of procedures applicable at PGNiG. 8. Workplace 123/ 207 Objective IV Dialogue with employees Social dialogue in the energy industry is a wellestablished tradition. It is no different at the PGNiG Group, where over 120 trade union organisations It is important to cooperate on an ongoing baoperate. One member of PGNiG’s Management sis with the ethics officers of other PGNiG Group Board is elected for a three-year term by employcompanies, with a view to integrating the Group’s ees of the Company, and the Supervisory Board Employee communication and consultations reethics programme, implementing an ethics proincludes three members who are representagarding important decisions are also present gramme management system at all entities of the tives of employees. Each subsidiary has an officer within the framework of cooperation with trade Group and monitoring all reports of breaches. for employee affairs and cooperation with trade unions and employee councils, operating at PGNiG unions. S.A. and many of the subsidiaries. If consultations The full implementation of the ethics programme with trade unions are conducted, e.g. in the case at the PGNiG Group will take sustained efforts and The subsidiaries consult every material decision of the Memorandum of Understanding with the ongoing cooperation with all employees within a with employee organisations. This framework of National Trade Unions (which also represent trade long-term ethics education programme. We becooperation is of seminal importance for us, yet it unions within the Group), the process provides lieve that the more attention is given to promotion does protract decision making processes concernfor a 30-day period for responding to a motion in of ethical conduct, monitoring of compliance with ing a number of issues, including employee affairs. writing, 30 days for exchanging documents if the ethical standards and active involvement of emThe problem came to the attention of trade unions negotiation-and-approval procedure is applicaployees in educational initiatives, the better results at PGNiG and the Group. ble, and 14 days if an opinion is to be issued. The the programme will deliver. Only then will we be duration of the process under the Memorandum able to ensure that the Code of Ethics is not yet Attempts were made to establish a single method of Understanding with the PGNiG Trade Union is another internal regulation and that its principles of cooperation among all the trade unions to en30, 30 and 10 days, respectively. The employer are reflected in employees’ attitudes and conduct able coordination of the trade unions’ activities is required to provide the Employee Council with within our organisation and society at large. towards employers in the gas and oil industry. The the information requested by the Council within initiative was not entirely successful at that stage, 14 days. but the process continues. With respect to many fundamental issues, certain overlapping in the The Council issues opinions within 14 days of resocial dialogue process is observed. Due to legal ceiving the information from the employer. Also, considerations, the Management Board’s partners as provided for in the relevant laws, the employer in the dialogue are separately trade unions active is required to submit the information within the at PGNiG and separately trade unions active at deadlines and scope enabling the Council to faPGNiG’s subsidiaries. miliarise itself with the facts of specific case and prepare for the consultation process. 8. Workplace 124/ 207 Objective IV Collective Bargaining Agreement Summary Efforts of the trade unions and the employer led to the registration of the Collective Bargaining AgreePGNiG strives to create a safe and friendly workment for Employees of Polskie Górnictwo Naftowe place (one of the pillars of our strategy) by pursui Gazownictwo on July 15th 2009. It was the crowning a series of initiatives launched over the years In 2010, in accordance with the applicable laws, ing of the parties’ work on a document which by the Group. Our efforts focus on the wellbeing PGNiG’s Management Board and Employee Counwould compile and elaborate on the employee of the employees and on supporting them through cil decided to increase the number of members rights and privileges stipulated by the national appropriate social solutions and training opportuof the Council from seven to 14, to include replabour laws and other regulations. nities. The survey conducted in 2010 among the resentatives of those PGNiG’s business segments Group’s employees revealed that our Company which had not been represented in the previous The Collective Bargaining Agreement also follows was perceived as a very good employer. This is seven-member Council. In accordance with the up on the generally applicable laws and regulaconfirmed by a low employee turnover rate at law, members of the Council were elected in gentions by taking into account the specifics of our PGNiG’s Head Office, which in 2010 remained at eral, direct and secret elections. Each PGNiG emorganisation, and in many cases includes requirethe level of 6%. ployee was entitled to vote in the elections, which ments exceeding those imposed by law. enjoyed high turnout. This section presents the most important initiaFor more details on the specific solutions adopted tives carried out in 2010 as part of the Workplace Since January 2009, a new discussion platform has in the Collective Bargaining Agreement, see the strategic pillar. They constitute key elements of operated at the Group, namely a special annual “Additional benefits” section. PGNiG’s philosophy, which is based on the twin PGNiG Group Social Dialogue Conference, attended values of sustainable development and responsible by PGNiG’s Management Board and key directors, To note, most of the solutions described in this business. The electronic version of this Report will with a total of 150–200 persons participating in CSR Report come from the Group’s parent underinclude descriptions of initiatives we regard as the the event, including representatives of social parttaking, and other entities of the Group may apply most interesting. However, we are aware that this ners from across the Group. For more details, see different and often divergent rules in this respect. area needs to be developed further. Best Practices. In 2010, another such conference was held. In order to face market challenges, the Group needs to enhance its structure to make it even more efficient, while improving the qualifications of its employees. Better systemic solutions are required in the HR and staff development areas. Also, the Group needs to formulate precise responses to new, specific demands in the area of employee training and skills required to pursue the Group’s strategic initiatives. 8. Workplace 125/ 207 Did you know? “Risked his life to save two” Read the headlines of most local and national newspapers that wrote about the heroic deed of Centre in Siemianowice Śląskie. We kept in touch Mr Celestyn Żeliszewski, an employee of KSG – with Mr Żeliszewski’s family during his recovery, Gas Distribution Region of Nowy Sącz. On May 3rd and contributed financially towards his treatment 2010, Mr Żeliszewski rushed without hesitation to and rehabilitation. help two young people trapped in a burning car, overturned in a ditch nearby his house. Thanks to In December, we were proud to have the hero the immediate rescue, both teenagers came out with us at the corporate Christmas Eve at Karof the accident practically unharmed, but unforpacka Spółka Gazownictwa. His heroic and selfless tunately our colleague was seriously injured. He act moved us all, and the modesty with which he suffered extensive internal and external burns of took words of praise made us all reflect on our the second and third degree, which posed a threat own behaviour. For saving two lives and a display to his life. The burns covered 20% of his body and of courage, the president of Poland, Mr Bronisław airways. Unconscious and in critical condition, Komorowski, awarded him a medal “For Bravery he was transported to the Burn Injury Treatment and Courage” (Za Dzielność i Odwagę). He was also chosen by the Gazeta Krakowska daily as the Man of the Year (Człowiek Roku Gazety ­Krakowskiej), the Nowy Sącz Citizen of the Year (Sądeczanin Roku) and presented with the Golden Coat of Arms of Nowy Sącz (Złota Tarcza Herbowa Nowego ­Sącza), the highest distinction awarded by this town, and the Noble Deed (Zacny Uczynek) award. Celestyn Żeliszewski 8. Workplace 126/ 207 Commitments for the future Strategic Operational objectives Detailed objectives for next period pillar To be a learning organisation Improving the In-Out Programme To develop and implement HR strategies Creating an incentive scheme for members of task teams, facilitating management of large investment projects, mergers and acquisitions, and developing research capabilities Workplace To expand cooperation and knowledge Developing and launching new initiatives in this area sharing between the Group’s HR teams To build a shared organisational culture based Ethics training for employees and management staff on the Group’s values Prepared by team composed of: Katarzyna Cybulska-Jura, Beata Dreger, Anna Folcik, Agnieszka Kuras-Atamańczuk, Dorota Omylska-Bielat, Jan Sęp, Sebastian Słodownik, Katarzyna Wróblewicz. 8. Workplace 127/ 207 8.1. Employee Satisfaction Survey – our portrait and guidance for the future Surveys among employees, also known as employee The survey results provided us with valuable insatisfaction or employee sentiment surveys, are becoming sight into the employees’ perception of the Comincreasingly common at Polish companies. Good internal pany, thus offering a unique portrait of our organirelations are considered at least as important as the sation, showing PGNiG’s employees, our attitude to public image a company projects. Companies that work, our values and things we object to. understand the relationship between work satisfaction and employee commitment and their own market performance, The initiative will be repeated in the following treat employees as their key internal stakeholder group. years. We hope that the actions inspired by the first survey will convince PGNiG’s employees that it may be worthwhile to exercise their right to express opinions. Obviously, it is impossible to introduce anticipated changes quickly in all areas, All employees have the right to express their opinbut even today there are several areas where The introduction of regular Employee Satisfacions in the survey, although not the obligation. our staff’s perspective does matter. For instance, tion Surveys at PGNiG S.A., which in the following However, as is the case with other civic engagetheir opinions were fully taken into account while years are to be extended to other entities of the ment opportunities, the good participation rate formulating PGNiG’s Code of Ethics. In one part of Group, was a planned element of the Sustainable was proof of the employees’ involvement in the the survey, we asked employees to indicate values Development and Responsible Business Strategy. life of the Company. Over 50% of all employees – which they considered the most important. Thus, In July 2010, the Management Board for the first 4,754 people – took part in the survey. This figwe have certainty that responsibility, reliability, time confirmed the intention to implement this ure may not be particularly high, but considering quality and partnership – the four corporate valproject, setting the deadline at the end of 2010. the relatively short survey period, decentralised ues adopted by PGNiG – are fully shared by our The survey was conducted between November structure of the Group, large number of employstaff. During the development of the ethical pro22nd and December 16th 2010. ees who could only fill out a printed questionnaire gramme management system, the Management (2,668 employees do not use computers at work), Board also consulted employees, who decided that Ten areas were covered by the survey, including: as well as the fact that this was the first survey the position of Ethics Officer should be filled by an general issues, remuneration, bonuses, awards, of this kind conducted at PGNiG and the staff impartial person, unrelated to PGNiG and working social benefits, working conditions, communicamay have viewed it with mistrust or reserve, we professionally in the field of ethics. In line with this tion, management, work atmosphere, personal believe that surpassing the 50% threshold was a suggestion, Bolesław Rok, PhD, was appointed to development and career paths, the Company’s satisfactory result. the position in April 2011. image and new solutions. 8. Workplace 128/ 207 8.2. POGC Libya – waiting for a chance to return In December 2007, PGNiG S.A. was awarded a tender for Exploration Licence 113 in Libya. On February 25th 2008, an Exploration and Production Sharing Agreement (EPSA) on the exploration for and production of hydrocarbons was signed with Libya’s National Oil Corporation. Under the agreement, we committed to invest USD 108m in gas exploration and production in Libya within the next six years, in exchange for the right to share in future production. According to estimates, the resources of Licence 1 1 3 , l y i n g w i t h i n t h e M u r z u q B a s i n 1 , 3 0 0 k i l o m e t r e s n o r t h o f Tr i p o l i , n e a r t h e A l g e r i a n b o r d e r, m a y a m o u n t t o o v e r 1 0 0 b i l l i o n c u b i c m e t r e s o f n a t u r a l g a s . I n f a v o u r a b l e conditions, commercial production could be launched as early as in 2015. For the p u r p o s e o f o u r o p e r a t i o n s i n L i b y a , P O G C L i b y a B .V. o f A m s t e r d a m w a s e s t a b l i s h e d , a l o n g w i t h i t s b r a n c h i n Tr i p o l i . The POGC office on the outskirts of Tripoli emUnfortunately, something different happened. ployed a permanent staff of about 10 Poles and On February 17th 2011, Benghazi, riding the wave 20 Libyans. Under a cooperation agreement conof the Arab Spring, saw a wave of riots against cluded between PGNiG and POGC, they received Muammar Gaddafi’s regime, which quickly spread support from their colleagues in the Head Office in throughout Libya. On February 22nd, the Polish Warsaw, and in the last three years did their best staff of POGC were evacuated by a Dutch milito ensure that drilling work could start on schedtary aircraft, on board of which they could only ule, that is in April 2011. In January 2011, it seemed take hand luggage. The Libyan employees stayed that the schedule was feasible: tenders to select behind. On March 17th, UN Security Council Resosuppliers and providers of services necessary to lution 1970 and 1973 marked the beginning of support the drilling operations were about to be international military intervention in Libya. Accordcompleted, final service agreements were to be ing to diverse estimates, from 10 to 15 thousand concluded within days, preparatory work in the people have died since the conflict broke out. licence area was underway, and on January 13th 2011 we received the long-awaited A1-113/01 Drilling Permission. 8. Workplace 129/ 207 Most Libyan employees took leave from work, some managed to escape to Tunisia with their families, two of them even visited Poland. The three young Libyan men who were sent by the Company to study at the AGH University of Science and Technology were staying in Kraków when the revolution broke out. We are taking steps to provide them with internship or training opportuWe have left much more in Libya than just ofnities that would allow them to live on in Poland fice equipment and company cars. The Poles who until the conflict ends. Our employees who stayed worked at POGC were living in Libya, some of in Libya come to the office for even a few hours a them for a few months, others – for a year or two. week, if circumstances allow, and report the curIn the meantime, despite certain inconveniences of rent situation over the phone. Thanks to them, we living in an Arab state, they grew attached to the know that so far everyone is safe. To date, they country and began to treat it as their second (and have also successfully protected the Company’s in some cases, as their first) home. Since Februand private possessions left behind in Libya. Many ary, they keep thinking not only of the possessions other firms failed to secure their property – their After the Polish staff arrived in Warsaw, they acthey have left behind, but first and foremost their cars and office equipment were destroyed, stolen cepted the Head Office’s hospitality, setting up a thoughts are with the people they met, both Poles or confiscated by the regime. POGC, like many makeshift office in a conference room in the C5 and Libyans, who for various reasons had to stay other companies, not only maintains contact with building. Although the future remains uncertain, in Tripoli. its employees, but continues to pay them salaries. everyone resumed their duties. In the last few months, the team have finished to interpret data and plan further activities. Preparatory work is underway and numerous meetings and training courses are being held at the office, but first and foremost the entire team are following the news from Libya and looking forward for a chance to return. 130/ 207 9. Communication and marketing Consistent, credible and effective communication and marketing constitute a pillar of the PGNiG Group’s sustainable development s t r a t e g y. I t i s u n i q u e i n t h a t i t c o n c e r n s a l l S t a k e h o l d e r g r o u p s a n d overlaps with many other areas of the sustainable development s t r a t e g y. The activities I am responsible for at The whole Group will be working to deliver PGNiG are inextricably linked with all the right message, especially to the local pillars of our sustainable development communities where we conduct our explostrategy. It is one of the reasons why we organration and drilling projects. We will try to ise, as part of our CSR efforts, the Responsible convince the public that these operations Energy conference, which was held for the third are not harmful to the environment, quite time this year. The conference is hugely popular the opposite – that they can benefit us all. and attracts all leading energy sector players. Besides, we are included in the exclusive group of 16 companies listed as part of the Warsaw Stock Exchange’s Respect Index of industry CSR leaders. This year, we are also publishing our third CSR report. I hope this issue will be as well received as the previous ones. We strive to make our CSR activities uniform across the Group, including those related to the issue which has been all the rage recently, namely shale gas. Włodzimierz Kleniewski Director, Marketing Department 9. Communication and marketing 131/ 207 Whether we think of socially responsible activities in the area In this section we discuss the role of communication Tasks of environmental protection or and marketing in supporting in the area of relations with CSR efforts. We will describe local communities or customers, it in a slightly different way communication and marketing than the remaining pillars – Completed always form an inherent part instead of providing a list of of good management practices. accomplished objectives, we will Each initiative described in this present them in the context of Report may be considered in its communication aspect. What is more, many communication areas of activities and groups of stakeholders which they concern, as part of the four 32 and marketing activities, being areas of responsible business. particularly important to the successful implementation We hope that this will show o f t h e s t r a t e g y, h a v e b e e n a comprehensive approach to incorporated into such strategy responsible communication at Under way pillars as Workplace, Market/ the PGNiG Group. C u s t o m e r, N e w B u s i n e s s A r e a s and Natural Environment. Local 85 communities Natural environment Communication Delayed and marketing Exploring new business areas Market/ 13 Workplace customer 9. Communication and marketing 132/ 207 9.1. Communication in the Sustainable Development and Responsible Business Strategy of the PGNiG Group Challenges related to the communication and marketing area are chiefly determined by the specific nature of the PGNiG Group. Due to its size, extensive value chain, different customer groups in June 2011 with a large audience of more than and, finally, different markets of operation, one of two hundred participants, comprising not only the the fundamental challenges faced by the Group is sector’s representatives but also other interested to ensure consistency of its communication standparties, has already proven a huge success of the ards, while maintaining the specific character of The CSR strategy developed for the entire PGNiG last two years. the individual branches and companies, especially Group includes communication and marketing considering different needs and expectations challenges within seven operational objectives. A total of twenty companies have signed up to of its stakeholders. The PGNiG Group comprises The key objectives for the years to come are: the Declaration on Sustainable Development in 34 entities, employing over 30 thousand staff •• to ensure uniform communication standards the Energy Sector in Poland, including: Dalkia throughout Poland and in other countries, on difacross the Group, Polska, EDF Polska, Enea, Energa, Fortum Power ferent continents. Among its customers, there are •• to strengthen the PGNiG Group’s image as a & Heat Polska, GAZ-System, GDF SUEZ Energia millions of households, but also large international knowledge-based company, focused on the Polska, ­Grupa Lotos, PKP Energetyka, PKN Orlen, customers of its exploration and service companeeds of its customers and employees, and PSE Operator, Tauron, Vattenfall Poland, as well nies. The Group cooperates with a vast network of friendly to the environment, as PGNiG S.A. and six strategic companies of the subcontractors, research institutions and business •• to popularise the Company’s activities in the PGNiG Group: Dolnośląska Spółka Gazownictwa, partners, as well as local communities everywhere CSR area among the general public. Górnośląska Spółka Gazownictwa, Karpacka it is present: in Warsaw, the Carpathian Foothills ­Spółka Gazownictwa, Mazowiecka Spółka or a small village in Pakistan or India. Moreover, Many activities furthering those objectives have alGazownictwa, Pomorska Spółka Gazownictwa, the parent undertaking of the Group, i.e. PGNiG ready been undertaken. The principles of responsiWielkopolska Spółka Gazownictwa. S.A., is a market leader listed on the Warsaw Stock ble business and sustainable development are beExchange, playing a key role in ensuring Poland’s ing consistently implemented into our marketing energy security. All those factors determine the activities. The series of Responsible Energy conferspecific challenges for our communication and ences, devoted to challenges of sustained developmarketing activities. ment in the energy sector, held for the third time 9. Communication and marketing 133/ 207 The PGNiG Group has managed to systematise the Communication in local strategies rules governing its sponsorship activities, which is a major internal achievement. As a first stage, 2010 marked a new stage in the implementation in 2009, the Sponsorship Strategy of the PGNiG of the PGNiG Group’s CSR Strategy. In January Group was developed. It was used as the basis 2010, all branches and subsidiaries adopted their for defining detailed guidelines and rules for the own local strategies, based on the strategic objecexecution of sponsorship agreements and spontives of the Group. In this way, CSR management sorship reporting. In 2010, all members of the was delegated to the local level. This resulted in Group incorporated the guidelines into their intermore specific activities and initiatives, tailored to nal procedures, as a result of which their current meet the needs of the individual units and their activities comply with the recommendations of the stakeholders. Ministry of State Treasury on sponsorship activities of companies owned or co-owned by the state. Each of the local strategies incorporates the strateThe sponsorship plan was developed in line with gic goal related to communication and marketing. the sustainable development strategy. Currently, In this way, 94 operational objectives were deall sponsorship projects are subject to compreclared, comprising hundreds of activities and initihensive supervision at the planning and execution atives, of which 46 of were successfully completed Strategy execution stage. They are also monitored and their effects in 2010. The remaining objectives are scheduled to are evaluated on an on-going basis. be achieved in the years to come. The implementation of objectives falling within the communication area will be presented in the The report you are now reading – the third CSR The main directions of activities emerging from context of the other key pillars of the Sustainable Report of the PGNiG Group, which summarises our the local strategies include: Development Strategy and, most of all, in relato-date achievements in the implementation of •• consistent communication: regulating and tion to the major stakeholder groups. In this way, the CSR strategy at all the Group members – is an streamlining processes, implementing sponsorwe want to show how communication activities effect of another operational objective. ship procedures, communication plans, support the individual areas and our stakeholder •• effective internal communications, both within relations. the individual entities and between them within the PGNiG Group, •• open and candid external communications, strengthening the image of individual brands, •• conducting marketing activities in line with CRS principles, •• communication and promotion of, and education in, sustainable development and corporate social responsibility. 9. Communication and marketing 134/ 207 9.2. Communication with customers and the market Our communication with the Group’s customers is determined Relations with the media, as the key intermediary primarily by the type of products and services offered at the relaying information to wide audiences, play an respective sections of the value chain, and thus by different important role in the process of communication customer groups. The scope and means of communication with customers and the whole market. The policy with millions of retail customers differ from those employed of PGNiG and all the Group companies focuses on to communicate with institutional customers or with foreign the openness, reliability and speed of information customers of the service companies. In each and every flow. Being the major gas supplier, we consider it c a s e , h o w e v e r, c o m m u n i c a t i o n i s a n e l e m e n t w h i c h s h o u l d a priority to provide access to information to our complement professional customer service. customers and the public at large. One cannot overestimate the importance of communications in the context of PGNiG’s new business ventures. At present, given the enormous interest and no less controversy surrounding unconventional gas, it seems more crucial than ever. The debate about shale gas concentrates on two basic issues: economic opportunities and struggle between the interests of different countries, comFor more information on customer service, see panies, energy lobbies, etc. on the one hand, and the “Customer satisfaction (page 36)” section. At the environmental threats – on the other. Unforthis point, it is worth noting that communication, tunately, unsubstantiated theories and rumours be it direct communication with employees of abound. Holding approximately 20% of all shale Customer Service Offices or via electronic means, gas licenses in Poland (more than any other comsuch as e-mail, chat dialogues or helplines, constipany), PGNiG feels responsible for reaching Polish tutes an integral part of customer service. It may society with reliable information – all the more be facilitated by printed materials, such as folders, so as the first drilling for shale gas (Markowola-1) leaflets or bulletins, which provide information on and the first two hydraulic fracturing operations the availability of gas, its safe use, tariff rates, fuel in unconventional deposits took place in the Sanok quality and other matters of importance. Branch’s area, in the Lublin region, in July 2010. 9. Communication and marketing 135/ 207 Recognising the importance of open commuInvestor relations managed by PGNiG S.A., the nication and the role of media in this dialogue, parent undertaking, are another aspect of our in July 2010 PGNiG organised a special meeting communication with the market. They are govwith journalists in Markowola. A year later, in the erned by regulations applicable to listed compasame place, another meeting took place with the nies and the “Best Practices of WSE Listed Comparticipation of the media, but also representapanies”. The Investor Relations Department and tives of the local self-government, as well as local the Press Team are responsible for ensuring the and central authorities. It was a working session, accuracy and completeness of information, as well which included presentations followed by a discusas its prompt delivery to the market; we take care sion during which guests had a chance to address to ensure quality and openness in our communicaEfforts aimed to enhance communication with cusquestions to PGNiG’s representatives. We wanted tion with shareholders, investors and other capital tomers are made on an on-going basis and focus to dispel all doubts and respond to questions of market participants. on the communication channels directly supportordinary residents of the areas where we will be ing customer service, such as websites, helplines exploring for shale gas. One of the items on the Areas of activity in 2010 and printed materials. We would increasingly agenda was a presentation prepared by an inlike to make communication a two-way process, dependent research centre (the Polish Geological The main challenges identified by the analysis of thanks to surveys designed to probe customers’ Institute), devoted to the report commissioned by objectives set by the Sustainable Development satisfaction and expectations. In 2010, many Group Minister Jezierski to assess the legal compliance Strategy and the local strategies are: companies and branches introduced customer and environmental impact of PGNiG’s operations •• to improve the effectiveness of communication satisfaction surveys in various forms. Among the connected with drilling of the first exploration well with customers, service companies, Geofizyka Kraków adopted a Markowola-1. For more information, including ex•• to enhance the two-way communication proprocedure for gauging customer satisfaction after cerpts from the report, see the “Natural environcess, e.g. through satisfaction surveys, the completion of a project. Having carrying out ment” section. •• to educate customers about safe use of natural a contract, the company requests its customers gas. to complete a questionnaire, evaluating the qualIn addition to approval from scientific and reity of services provided and equipment offered, search institutions and competent authorities, we the qualifications of personnel and customerwould also like to receive the “green light” from contractor communication. During the first year, local communities, the general public and environfive out of seven customers agreed to take part in mental activists, by making them understand our the survey. The collected feedback was compiled business objectives. For more information on comand submitted in the form of an annual summary munication in the context of gas shale exploration, to the Management Board and Proxy for the Intesee the “Natural environment” and “New business grated Management System, to serve as the basis areas” sections. for reviewing and formulating improvement objectives and adjusting the customer service procedures already in place. 9. Communication and marketing 136/ 207 Another important issue with a bearing on PGNiG’s future communication efforts is the exploration for and production of unconventional gas. Reliable information and dialogue with local communiFuture challenges ties living in exploration areas will be a necessity. Given the emotions already stirred up by the issue, Communication with customers, especially retail reaching a wider public with information is no ones, is set to undergo a profound transformation less crucial. It is essential to take into account the in the coming years. Given the changing means of current level of public knowledge, so as to precommunication and social preferences, a considsent this highly specialist field in the clearest and erable part of stakeholder relations will be develmost accessible manner. For more information on oped through electronic channels. With time, they PGNiG’s plans in this respect, see the “Natural enviare likely to replace traditional Customers Service ronment” and “Local communities” sections. Offices and direct communication. This trend reflects the expectations of the majority of today’s Initiatives/Best practices customers, who would like to pay their bills and do many other things without leaving home. On Gas Distribution Companies: the other hand, elderly people tend to feel less User-Friendly Websites comfortable in the virtual environment. The quesThe implementation of User-Friendly Websites by tion then remains how to modernise communicaall the Group’s Gas Distribution Companies, i.e. six tion channels without excluding people who do entities whose operations cover the entire counnot have the appropriate skills, such as computer try, is an example of best practice in the area of literacy? responsible communication and responsiveness to stakeholders’ needs. Retail customers represent one of the key stakeholder groups of the Gas Distribution Companies. Their need for an easy access to clearly presented information prompted the companies to modify their websites, particularly by adapting them to the needs of disabled users, in line with the Web Content Accessibility Guidelines (WCAG). The WCAG standards were laid down to make the Internet accessible to all and prevent social exclusion due to the lack of access to information available on the Internet. 9. Communication and marketing 137/ 207 Thanks to WCAG, the websites of the Gas DistribuSuch a large-scale project of user-friendly webtion Companies have become more user-friendly sites for the disabled is unique on the Polish for customers with disabilities, due to embedded market. Unfortunately, based on the accessibiltext-to-speech software, which enables users to ity rankings published by the Visibles Foundation listen to the audio version of the website content, (Fundacja ­Widzialni), awareness and practical an option to adjust font sizes, clear separation of initiatives aiming to ensure e-accessibility are still the content and background, and distinct page in the development phase. sections (links, content, input fields and buttons). The functionality of these websites also includes: •• keyboard access to a site’s functions, •• hierarchical menu structure, •• path breadcrumbs, •• „client-side” and „server-side” site maps, which intuitively adjust to the browser’s custom settings (e.g. Javascript and Flash components support); •• easy to use and functional internal search engine. In addition, the layout of the websites was redesigned. For example, the website of Górnośląska Spółka Gazownictwa was modified based on clickstream statistics, to contain larger and more accessible links to the most popular information and to matters related to the sustainable development strategy. User-Friendly Website of Górnośląska Spółka Gazownictwa 9. Communication and marketing 138/ 207 9.3. Communication and workplace With a workforce of over 30 thousand at several dozen entities, the PGNiG Group is one of the largest employers in Poland. It is not only a large organisation, but also a widely dispersed one. Our employees work in l o c a t i o n s a ro u n d P o l a n d a n d a b ro a d . Ye t , t h e P G N i G G ro u p ’ s e m p l o y e e s are a group of people sharing common values derived from the petroleum mining ethos, which defines our tradition and remains a key element of our present-day operations. We attach great importance to certain rules, but also to customs, such as the Miner’s Day (Barbórka). At the same time, PGNiG’s workforce comprises a number of sub-groups with slightly different organisational cultures, built by different branches and companies. Ensuring an effective and consistent communication process within such a large and diverse group is a considerable challenge. Areas of activity in 2010 Communication needs to take place both at In line with the Group’s strategy of sustainable the Group level, so that the most important development, and with the individual local strateinformation reaches everyone, and – which is gies, the activities planned for 2010 focused on the perhaps more important – at the local level, where following tasks: it answers the needs of employees of individual •• to provide equal access to information to all PGNiG entities. The objectives at the corporate employees, level are to set high common standards and •• to include employees in the decision-making ensure consistency and reliability of information process, relating to the entire Group. They play an •• to increase employees’ commitment and affiliaimportant role in promoting a shared model of tion with the organisation, corporate values and desirable attitudes among •• to educate and promote involvement in CSR employees. activities, •• to ensure a two-way communication process. 9. Communication and marketing 139/ 207 The Employee Satisfaction Survey carried out at Initiatives/Best practices PGNiG in 2010 is a perfect example of the Company’s focus on communication with its employCSR training, Lower Silesian Gas ees. The survey has taken the employee-employer Tr a d i n g D i v i s i o n , Z g o r z e l e c G a s relations to a new level, and its findings may drive Sales Unit many significant changes in the HR policy. For The implementation of the CSR strategy was supmore information, see the “Workplace” section. ported by a dedicated employee training scheme. Following a theoretical part devoted to the six key For over two years, we have also systematically priorities of the Strategy, the participants were educated employees in sustainable development divided into six groups, and lots were drawn to and corporate social responsibility. We strive to determine on which strategic objective each of increase their involvement in CSR initiatives. Blood them would focus. The task of the practical part donor sessions are a regular event organised at consisted in taking photographs to illustrate the the PGNiG Group as part of its volunteer involvesubject. Jigsaw puzzles were then made of the ment policy. photographs taken during the training, which were later distributed as corporate gifts. “A Miner at the Nursery School” (Górnik Future challenges w ­przedszkolu) employee volunteering proFamiliarising CSR (Oswajamy gramme, carried out by the Zielona Góra and A separate, albeit increasingly important, area of CSR) employee conference, Sanok Branches, may serve as another example. workplace-related communications and marketing L o w e r S i l e s i a n G a s Tr a d i n g Around the Miner’s Day, employees of the Branchis the so-called employer branding of the PGNiG Division, Wrocław Gas Sales Unit es visited local nursery schools to discuss the realiGroup. Previously, the issue was a priority only to The conference was divided into two parts – a ties of a miner’s job with children. PGNiG’s subsidiaries operating on foreign markets, theoretical part, during which papers on corporate where they had to compete for staff with large insocial responsibility were delivered, and a practiternational corporations. Today, in the face of the cal part, focused on teamwork. The employees dynamically growing exploration market in Poland were tasked with building bird nesting boxes for (the boom for unconventional gas exploration), the the Śnieżynka Forest District in the Karkonosze business success of many Group members may Mountains. They also made nesting boxes, which depend on their ability to project an image of a they put on trees in the Wrocław Gas Sales Unit’s competitive employer. For more detailed informaoperating area. tion, see the “Workplace” section. 9. Communication and marketing 140/ 207 “Work with passion, work with us!” (Pracuj z pasją, pracuj z nami!) – Employer branding at Geofizyka Kraków Geofizyka Kraków is a subsidiary of the PGNiG participants, who thus came into contact with the Group which for more than a dozen years has Geofizyka Kraków brand. The career fairs for engiprovided services not only in Poland, but also on neers (Inżynierskie Targi Pracy) held in Kraków last many foreign markets. In recent years, the boom year attracted over 8,000 visitors. Each time, the for exploration services has intensified competition company’s booth was visited by hundreds of perfor labour among exploration companies. Both sons interested in the company and the job opporgeophysical and drilling companies have been tunities it offered. At each fair, dozens of resumes faced with a situation where foreign corporations are submitted there and then, and the number of go to great lengths to win away Polish specialists, submissions rises considerably following the event. who often combine excellent qualifications with a “ P re s e n t Yo u r s e l f wealth of experience. Besides taking part in career fairs, Geofizyka Responsibly” (Zaprezentuj się Kraków is a partner of the GEOSFERA workshops odpowiedzialnie), Pomeranian In response to those unwelcome trends on the for geophysics students throughout Poland. Gas Distribution Company professional labour market, Geofizyka Kraków has In 2010, the venue of the workshops were the The “Present Yourself Responsibly” practice comtaken a series of steps aimed firstly at increasing Świętokrzyskie Mountains, and their programme prised the drafting and implementation of rules the brand’s recognition as an employer, and seccovered not only inside knowledge in geophysics for procurement of corporate gifts. In line with ondly at promoting its image as an attractive and and geology, but also the practical aspects of work PGNiG’s mission statement and CSR strategy, corpreferred employer among students and graduin this area, presented by Geofizyka Kraków. Meetporate gifts should be eco-friendly, i.e. manufacates of geophysics and related studies, as well ings with students are also organised on different tured using environmentally friendly technologies as among young engineers at the outset of their occasions, both at higher education institutions, with the use of natural recyclable materials. They careers. In 2010, the company took part in career and on the company’s premises. At least once a should be made in Poland, in the area where the fairs for engineers and economists, organised year, practical workshops for students of the last company operates, and should certified as safe to by higher education institutions and student asyear of geophysics are offered, during which they human health. sociations. Each event attracted several thousand have a chance to learn about the job and state-ofthe art technologies, meet with experienced specialists, and learn about the fieldwork of a seismic survey team. 9. Communication and marketing 141/ 207 A Facebook fanpage of Geofizyka Kraków, which Thanks to this communication strategy, the brand was launched last year, complements the comawareness of Geofizyka Kraków on the labour pany’s communication efforts targeted at young market has increased significantly, ongoing close people and potential employees. It is the only Farelations with the student community have been cebook profile yet of a PGNiG Group company. The established, while jobs advertised by the company specific nature of Facebook makes it completely have attracted growing interest. It is evident in useless for communication with customers, yet a the number of job applications or views of the perfect tool for getting in touch with students and “Careers” section of the corporate website. The other young people interested in working for the first month of the company’s Facebook presence company. Thanks to information campaigns, i.e. brought a nearly 60% increase in the traffic to the during the career fairs, the fanpage soon gained corporate website. a group of devoted fans (their number in the first couple of weeks exceeded 100 – a fairly good result for such a narrowly targeted fanpage). The Facebook page is used to inform about job openings and work conditions at Geofizyka Kraków, while actively involving fans in the creation of the employer branding strategy. Geofizyka Kraków at a career fair 9. Communication and marketing 142/ 207 9.4. Communication and the natural environment Conducting business with due regard to the natural environment is one of the major pillars of PGNiG’s s t r a t e g y. A s a n i n d u s t r y w h i c h d e r i v e s b e n e f i t s f r o m Environmental education is targeted both at the natural resources while having to interfere with nature, Group’s employees and its external environment. we are fully aware of the responsibility that entails. Since 2010, Geofizyka Kraków has regularly pubOur basic communication duty in this area consists in lished a series of articles entitled Zielony Kącik reliable reporting of our environmental impact, as well (“The Green Column”) in its corporate newsletter, as compliance with the environmental laws. For detailed promoting environmentally responsible behaviour information, see the “Natural environment” section. at and outside work. In addition, a special leaflet called Myśl EKOlogicznie (“Think ECOlogically”) was published. It is distributed to all employees at induction training courses and serves as a set of guidelines for environmentally responsible behaviour at the office, during fieldwork, or in a company car. Communication is also a means for us to get inencourage us to support pro-environmental initiaThe Upper Silesian Gas Trading Division and the volved in pro-environmental initiatives. We put tives and avoid activities which may pose a threat Opole Gas Sales Unit are involved in environmental considerable emphasis on environmental educato the natural environment. education of the youngest. At a series of meetings tion and promotion of healthy lifestyle among our in primary schools, PGNiG employees have talked employees, customers and local communities. We about the production and safe use of natural gas, support various pro-environmental projects unAreas of activity in 20100 and the related environmental issues. dertaken by NGOs. Looking at the PGNiG Group’s objectives and acFrom time to time, a number of PGNiG’s Customer We are well aware that our care for the environtivities pursued in 2010, we can identify two disService Offices distribute eco-friendly shopping ment is also reflected in the manner in which we tinct trends in its communication efforts related to bags, which serve as a promotional gadget and communicate. Therefore, we have been reducing environment protection: encourage a green lifestyle. the amount of printed materials in favour of elec•• education on environment protection and tronic communication and eco-friendly promotionenvironmentally-friendly fuel, i.e. natural gas; al gadgets. Moreover, our sponsorship guidelines •• environmentally responsible methods of marketing communication. 9. Communication and marketing 143/ 207 We promote the use of promotional gifts and The originality of the programme (which consisted advertising materials produced in accordance with of scenes, each a few minutes long, presenting the principles of sustainability. For instance, in various environmental issues) was well received 2010, Pomorska Spółka Gazownictwa developed by, and attracted wide feedback from, the audiand implemented rules for procurement of corence. The programme was granted the first award porate gifts. In choosing a gift, it is important to Initiatives/Best practices in the “Radio” category of a contest organised by consider whether it is eco-friendly (manufactured the Ministry of Environment within the framein an environmentally-friendly way, with the use The Eleventh Commandment: work of the Polish awareness campaign aimed at of natural recyclable materials), and whether it Thou shalt not litter! PGNiG preventing waste production and teaching proper promotes healthy and active lifestyle. Zielona Góra Branch ways to handle waste. PGNiG Zielona Góra Branch has been involved in In our marketing communication efforts, we have environmental education of both its staff and the always stressed that the product we offer, i.e. local communities for a long time. Its support for natural gas, is one of the most eco-friendly fuels. a programme in the local radio station Radio Plus Hence numerous, also in 2010, information cammay serve as a case in point. paigns designed to encourage the use of gas. In December 2010, Radio Plus aired a series of Future challenges eight programmes under the title: “The Eleventh Commandment: Thou shalt not litter!” The proThe market demonstrates that sustainable develgramme was also available via the Radio’s website. opment and corporate social responsibility are not It promoted environmentally responsible habits, only a source of competitive advantage, but also which can easily be implemented in everyday one of the basic standards for running a business. life, discussing such issues as rubbish sorting, the It is particularly evident in the area of environment harmful impact of batteries, eco-friendly energy, protection. A significant communicative challenge electricity saving, packaging materials and envifor the whole PGNiG Group is to preserve its imronmentally responsible behaviour in forests. By supporting such initiatives, PGNiG is able to age as a company which derives benefits from participate in environmental education of the nature, while attaching utmost importance to its public – in this case, the local community of the protection. There are even more extensive enviZielona Góra Branch; while strengthening its imronmental campaigns ahead of us, organised at age of a company committed to “green” issues. the Group’s level, with the aim to educate Poles The initiative was carried out in accordance with and put an equation mark between natural gas the principles of socially responsible sponsorship. and the term “eco-friendly fuel”. 9. Communication and marketing 144/ 207 9.5. Communication and local communities Our day-to-day activities influence the lives of many people who live in the vicinity of our companies or in areas where we conduct research or exploration. We always have it in mind that our success depends largely on good relations with those people. Therefore, everywhere we work we use our best efforts to ensure that our presence, w h e t h e r p e r m a n e n t o r t e m p o r a r y, c a u s e s t h e l e a s t possible nuisance and brings the most benefits to t h e n e i g h b o u r i n g c o m m u n i t y. A significant part of our relations with local communities consists in supporting their development. Certainly, our major contribution here is the employment we offer to their representatives, but we try to do much more. By sponsoring local initiatives, partnering with schools and higher education institutions and contributing to charity, we try to show that the PGNiG Group is a good neighbour. The PGNiG Group’s investment and research procommunication of our activities and the purpose The PGNiG Group’s branches and companies are jects are located throughout Poland and abroad. of our work or projects, which allows us to estabalso active abroad, even outside of Europe. This We consider local communities as one of our larglish a common cooperation framework. If our prorequires from our employees to be open to other est and most important stakeholder groups. In our jects raise concerns among the local community, cultures and respect their values. No matter where activities, we use private property of individual we increase our communicative efforts in order we work, whether in Europe, Kazakhstan, or Libya, owners, including forests, land and roads. This to resolve all doubts. In such a case, we arrange we treat other cultures and religions with respect, requires us to maintain partnership relations with meetings with the local authorities and residents, and their representatives are part of our teams. local authorities and governmental institutions, as prepare special informational materials and enter Especially in poor and less developed countries, well as individual farmers and residents of parinto active dialogue with the local media. we try to support the local communities through ticular areas. We base those relations on reliable CSR initiatives. 9. Communication and marketing 145/ 207 Initiatives/Best practices Communication with local communities during seismic Areas of activity in 2010 s u r v e y s , G e o f i z y k a To r u ń Good relations with local communities, based on Communication efforts targeted at local communicooperation of equals and dialogue, are among ties constitute an important element of the obthe PGNiG Group’s strategic objectives. Reliable jectives set by virtually all the Group’s entities. In communication with local residents is necessary to 2010, they were focused on: An interesting example of unconventional apfulfil that objective. •• spreading knowledge about the PGNiG Group’s proach to the promotion of local art and culture initiatives and projects; is the “Single Work Gallery” initiative (Galeria Geofizyka Toruń is an example of how best prac•• ensuring good relations with local communi­Jednego ­Dzieła) of the Pomeranian Gas Trading tice is applied in communication. Its efforts focus ties and authorities in places where the Group Division. For several months in 2010, the Customer on providing full information about planned work operates; Service Office in Gdańsk regularly presented local to the communities living in areas where the Com•• supporting education and cultural activities of works of art, which served as a beautiful decorapany is to conduct seismic surveys. local communities; tion while promoting local artists. The campaign •• supporting local charity campaigns. was well received by customers, who evaluated it The Company continues to develop comprehensive very positively in a special survey. 79% of the recommunication procedures, intended to further Like in previous years, both the PGNiG Head Ofspondents thought the initiative was a great idea. enhance cooperation with local communities. fice and numerous branches and subsidiaries were 78% of those surveyed expressed the belief that Apart from formal written notifications and agreeactively involved in Science Festivals organised supporting young artists benefited the company’s ments, communication at the site of ongoing or across Poland. The aim of the already regular iniimage. In this way, without significant expendiplanned operations involves additional elements, tiative is to promote science and scientific achievetures, we gave young artists a chance to reach a such as meetings between survey team members ments among children and young people. wider audience. and local residents, or preparation and distribution of materials explaining the purposes and methods For many years, the PGNiG Group has supported of seismic data acquisition. institutions of higher education, in particular those teaching sciences related to our industry. In addition to financing various initiatives undertaken by schools, we ourselves organise special events for students, to provide both education and entertainment. In 2010, such events were held by the Odolanów Branch, Geofizyka Kraków and Naftomet. 9. Communication and marketing 146/ 207 Summary Economies of scale: communication tools In response to the stakeholders’ need for reliable Without a proper communication system for ininformation on the exploration work carried out ternal and external purposes, it would have been in Poland, in 2010 the Company started to pubimpossible to undertake the initiatives described in lish a magazine entitled Skarby Ziemi („Treasures this section. The system relies on the efforts of a of the Earth”), addressed to local authorities and several dozen persons at the whole PGNiG Group, residents and aiming to educate them about the who use diverse tools and communication channature of geophysical work and the Company’s nels. The Marketing Department of PGNiG’s Head operations. Additionally, it answers questions Office, which is responsible for both marketing related to current trends in the industry, such as and corporate communications, is supported by exploration for shale gas. In order to facilitate and several dozen facilitators working at all entities of support experience sharing, the magazine features the Group. interviews with representatives of local communities, for example the heads of communes, where With more than 30 thousand employees all over the Company operated before. Poland and abroad, our internal communications Bulletin for local communities require the concurrent use of several different Because of the great value attached to harmonipublished by Geofizyka Toruń channels. MaGAZyn, a magazine with a circulaous cooperation with local communities, the Comtion of 5 thousand distributed among the Group’s pany strives to ensure that members of its seismic employees, is one of the traditional means of comteams possess knowledge and skills related to the munication. Additionally, some subsidiaries and formal and communication procedures in place. branches publish their own internal magazines PGNiG’s CSR Strategy defines measurable goals in (mostly monthlies), with a total circulation of over relation to the staff’s communication skills. Last 7 thousand. year, we launched an e-learning project aimed at improving communication skills of the management staff in charge of seismic teams. 9. Communication and marketing 147/ 207 Electronic communication involves the Newsletter, distributed several times a week by the Head Office, as well as local newsletters of individual entities. Information published in newsletters At the PGNiG Group, media relations are the reis also posted on the Newsletter Portal, accessponsibility of the Spokesperson and Press Ofsible to most of our employees. Another channel fice at PGNiG’s Head Office, as well as several of communication is PGNiG’s Intranet and many dozen press officers working for other entities of local portals implemented at the Group’s compathe Group. In 2010 alone, we issued more than nies. Employees also receive a number of other 400 press releases, organised 30 conferences materials supporting different projects (e.g. the (including press conferences, briefings and study employee satisfaction survey), fill in questionnaires tours) and replied to hundreds of phone calls and and participate in special meetings. Chats with the e-mails. President of PGNiG’s Management Board are organised at least twice a year, giving employees a Taking active part in the life of our industry, in chance to ask him a question directly. 2010 we organised, co-organised or acted as a Future challenges supporting partner for about 30 industry conferences. Our branches and subsidiaries took part Because we believe that open, reliable and effecin 150 events, such as trade fairs, exhibitions and tive communication is one of the basic standards scientific conferences. to be adhered to by a socially responsible business, our objective is to constantly improve in this These figures illustrate the scale of the PGNiG area. To date, we have developed a number of Group’s communication activities but say little solutions that have proved their merit and could about their nature. Our main objective is to reach be considered exemplary. We also know which all key stakeholder groups, ensure that comsolutions require adjustments, and which are inefmunication is a two-way process and adjust its fective. We want to improve the existing standards form to the recipients’ needs, which can be a real and promote best practices at the entire Group. challenge given the complexity of and specialist knowledge involved in exploration and production When asked about future challenges and areas in operations. need of improvement, most regional Communication and CSR Facilitators point to internal communications, both within the individual entities and between them, within the Group. Therefore, in the coming years we will certainly concentrate on good relations with employees and effective cooperation at the Group level. 9. Communication and marketing 148/ 207 A systemic approach to defining and monitoring the implementation of communication objectives as part of the sustainable development strategy is an area which still requires work. We would like to transform the initiatives in the area, which are frequent but unconnected and often undertaken on an ad hoc basis, into long-term activities, which would become part of the PGNiG Group’s established practices. In the context of the dynamically developing exploration market in Poland, we see a clear need for placing greater stress on dialogue with local communities living in the areas where we work and invest. Such a dialogue is a condition for PGNiG to gain social acceptance for its projects and conduct its operations efficiently. It is especially important in the case of shale gas exploration – for more In line with our current Sustainable Development information, see the “New business areas” secand Responsible Business Strategy, we treat comtion. An improvement of systemic communication munication as an element playing a vital role in with local communities is a priority to be set when supporting the fulfilment of objectives of the other revising our current strategy and defining new strategic pillars. Hence, the development of high objectives for the Sustainable Development and standards of communication with all our stakeResponsible Business Strategy. holder groups is our primary goal for the future. Prepared by a team composed of: Ewa Białowąs, Bogumiła Koman, Iwona Matusiak, Jacek Miluśki, Katarzyna Mróz and Magdalena Pachocka. 9. Communication and marketing 149/ 207 9.6. Energy sector on its way to sustainable development The evolving business and social environment requires companies to know and understand the expectations of their stakeholders, so a s t o b e a b l e t o d e v e l o p i n a s u s t a i n a b l e m a n n e r. T h e e n e r g y s e c t o r also recognizes the need to implement sustainable development initiatives. Therefore, it is crucial to actively support education of companies, raise awareness of the issue among employees and c u s t o m e r s , a n d d e v e l o p o t h e r C S R p r a c t i c e s i n t h e e n e r g y s e c t o r. The second Responsible Energy Conference, oron challenges, both social and economic, faced ganised by PGNiG in cooperation with PwC, was by Poland and the global economy. Among the a pioneering initiative in Poland. It provided an special guests invited to the last year’s conference opportunity to discuss corporate social responsibilwas Mr Matthew Bateson – Energy and Climate ity in the energy sector, on a broad, nationwide Managing Director at World Business Council for scale. The second conference was held under the Sustainable Development, who presented the slogan: “The energy sector’s responsibility in the WBCSD’s views on challenges to sustainable develcontext of social and economic challenges facing opment until 2050. Poland and the world.” The discussion focused 9. Communication and marketing 150/ 207 The conferences regularly attract over 200 participants, including representatives of both private and public sector companies and non-government organisations, as well as students interested in the topic. While providing an opportunity to debate CSR issues relevant for the industry, the meetings The main success of the conference was the signcreate a platform for education and for sharing Discussions and team work during the workshops ing, during the first meeting in 2009, of the Declaknowledge and best practices. held in October, and during all subsequent meetration on Sustainable Development in the Energy ings, gave rise to many ideas for joint initiatives. Sector by representatives of Poland’s seven major Thus, the Responsible Energy conferences bring The most crucial and prospective issues and areas energy companies: Polskie Górnictwo Naftowe i tangible benefits both to PGNiG and other market of potential cooperation were identified to be as Gazownictwo S.A., EDF Polska, Gaz-System S.A., participants, particularly by increasing awareness follows: GDF Suez Energia Polska, Tauron S.A., ENEA S.A. of the significance of responsible business across •• CSR as a source of innovation, or a field for and Vattenfall Poland Sp. z o.o. In 2010, the group the industry and promoting inter-sector dialogue. research and development, including cooperawas joined by another three companies: Fortion with academic centres, tum Power and Heat Polska, Grupa LOTOS and The 2010 conference was closed by a meeting of •• education to raise perception of sustainPolskie Sieci Elektroenergetyczne Operator, folenergy sector representatives, held on October able development as a driver of business lowed several months later by Dalkia Polska, and 3rd 2010 in the Płońsk Forest District. The participerformance, recently by PKN Orlen S.A. The Declaration is a pants, together with the Aeris Futuro Foundation, •• the need for more effective communication of set of obligations that its signatories agree to asplanted 1,500 pine seedlings thus neutralising activities, including the necessity to develop a sume in order to operate in a sustainable way. The CO2 emissions generated during the Responsible common communication platform, obligations cover eight operational areas, from Energy Conference. The meeting was followed •• the need to establish a platform for sharing environmental protection, to stakeholder involveby a workshop where new ideas for joint initiabest practices, benchmarking and deriving ment and customer care, to broad-based cooptives were discussed by members of the energy inspiration. eration in promoting sustainable development companies and a representative of the Ministry of (see: www.odpowiedzialna-energia.pl/oenergia/ Economy. This was yet another step on the way The Responsible Energy Conference provides a konferencja/9530). towards implementing the principles and objecnew forum for dialogue to find a common way tives of the Declaration through industry-wide cotowards achieving greater sustainability of the The support of the Energy Regulatory Office (URE) operation. Since then, the Declaration’s signatories Polish energy market. Although the challenge is is also crucial. Every year during the conference, have already met twice with a view to developing immense, the fact that an increasing number of a representative of URE presents the results of its a joint project that would put the provisions of the companies decide to face it offers an optimistic research on corporate social responsibility in the Declaration into practice. outlook on the future. energy sector. The conference is held under the honorary patronage of Prime Minister Waldemar Further details on the conference are available at: Pawlak. www.odpowiedzialna-energia.pl 9. Communication and marketing 151/ 207 9.7. Coalition for Responsible Business In 2009, the Employers of Poland and its member companies: Te l e k o m u n i k a c j a P o l s k a S . A . , G l a x o S m i t h K l i n e a n d Polskie Górnictwo Naftowe i Gazownictwo S.A., came up with the idea to promote responsible business practices a m o n g P o l i s h e n t r e p r e n e u r s . E v e n t u a l l y, t h e i d e a g a v e rise to the Coalition for Responsible Business, joined by another three companies: Danone, HOCHTIEF Polska and Powszechny Zakład Ubezpieczeń S.A. The project is s u p p o r t e d b y P W C , w h i c h a c t s a s i t s e x p e r t p a r t n e r. The rules of the Responsible Business Code are as follows: 1) set the standards and popularise knowledge on CSR; 2) support social and economic development; 3) respect employees by offering them decent working conditions; The project is financed through the European Soperspective on responsible business, adopted by 4) develop organisational culture based on the cial Fund. Its aim is not only to promote the printhe Coalition in its project, is definitely a pioneervalues and individual needs of employees; ciples of responsible business, but also to support ing approach in Poland and one that offers a 5) care for the health and safety of employees their practical implementation. unique and valuable contribution to the Coalition’s and customers; initiative. 6) build your business on trust and partnership; This objective is to be achieved through various 7) ensure proper communications and responsidedicated tools, and in particular the Responsible At the next stage of the project, the Responsible ble marketing; Business Code setting out nine principles of ReBusiness Leaders contest is to be held to select in 8) create and develop your products and services sponsible Business, accompanied by a Guideline each of the six industry sectors companies that in response to new social and environmental for implementing the Responsible Business Code. will be awarded the title of Responsible Business challenges, The Guideline provides a detailed description and Leaders during the prestigious gala ceremony to 9) care for the environment. explanation of each principle, indicating the issues be held in October 2011. At present, the project of key importance to particular industries, and may be joined by every company which agrees to For further details see: www.koalicjacr.pl discusses actions that may be taken along with comply with the rules set out in the Code. methods for assessing their impact. The sectoral 152/ 207 10. N  ew Business Areas The search for new business areas as well as innovativeness combined with efforts made to ensure environmental protection a d d u p t o f o r m o n e o f t h e p i l l a r s o f P G N i G ’ s b u s i n e s s s t r a t e g y. The Group is able to rise up to new challenges, owing to solid foundations built primarily on the knowledge and experience of its employees, as well as the Company’s financial potential. Our operations in this respect are compliant with the “Declaration on Sustainable Development in the Energy Sector in Poland”. 8. Workplace 153/ 207 The implementation of the environmenTwo years after the strategy was launched, we can the public, providing an opportunity not only for tal protection objectives adopted in 2009 boast measurable environmental achievements, the Company, but also for society at large and as part of the Sustainable Development which often exceed the obligatory legal requirethe local communities. Gas is more than just an and Responsible Business Strategy was neither ments and involve further mitigation of our negaenvironmental-friendly fuel – in fact, the most a surprise nor a new, unknown challenge for tive environmental impacts. It should be added environmental-friendly of all fossil fuels. Over the PGNiG’s employees and its environmental protecthat the objectives and results of these efforts also course of years, we have been trying to prove that tion personnel. This was due to two reasons. Firstapply to the contractors cooperating with us on it is also a precious natural resource which can be ly, the environmental protection objectives were our projects. produced at minimum cost to the environment. developed jointly by the entire team. Secondly, for many years the Company has invariably treated Today, we face new challenges in the area of environmental protection as an area of crucial environmental protection, one example being importance, critical to its business success. In this compliance with the energy and climate packway, the Company’s CSR strategy provided merely age or the much discussed shale gas. We hope a formal framework for the objectives and priorithat thanks to the environmental credibility which tised them to reflect new challenges in the area of we have been building for years, the Company’s environmental protection. Following its adoption, shale gas exploration projects will be accepted by the Company was able to commit human resources and funds to their implementation, and gained measures to assess their progress. Marcin Lewenstein Head of Strategic Planning Office Strategy Department 10. New Business Areas 154/ 207 Tasks In July 2009, the Sustainable Development and Corporate Completed Responsibility Strategy set forth two goals which are key for the successful implementation of objectives under the sixth s t r a t e g i c p i l l a r. T h e f i r s t objective provides for expanding 14 the Company’s business to include power generation, whereas the second assumes the growth of competence in the area of pro-environmental Under way solutions. In both cases, PGNiG’s o p e r a t i o n s a r e d r i v e n b y, on the one hand, Poland’s significant energy requirement, which creates development 40 opportunities for the Group, and on the other – limitations the contemporary world has to face, such as shrinking energy sources and the necessity to Delayed significantly cut down CO2 emissions. 6 10. S eeking new business expansion opportunities in line with the 155/ 207 principle of sustainable development Objective Objective I II Expanding the Company’s Business to Include Power Generation and Trading Effects Estimated value of the project in Launch of co-generation Stalowa Wola: projects PLN 1,900m; design output: 3,100 GWh. MPEC Olsztyn (heat utility) to reduce annual CO2 emissions by approximately 2,160 tonnes. Replacement of large heat sources with small biogas plants 10. New Business Areas 156/ 207 Objective Objective I II Growing Competence in the Area of Pro-Environmental Solutions (CCS, Geothermal Energy, CNG and LNG) Support of the development geothermal technologies in Poland and abroad CNG technology of Effects development and promotion in Poland 34 CNG service stations in Poland in 2010. As many as 270 city buses in Poland run on CNG. Research into CO2 storage (CCS) The residents of Ińsko consume Connecting cities to natural gas 30 thousand cubic supply networks based on LNG metres of LNG. 10. New Business Areas 157/ 207 Objective I Expanding the Company’s business to include electricity Accordingly, gas-fired plants may become a valugeneration and trading, in able addition to the Polish electricity sector, domicompliance with sustainable nated by coal fuel. They correspond well with the development principles development of renewable energy sources and represent an operating reserve, easily accessible in As a Company whose operations involve productimes of peak demand. Further implementation of The contemplated areas of PGNiG’s business detion of natural gas, an ecological product with a the policy adopted by the European Union to fight velopment include also biogas projects. The use large development potential, PGNiG is committing emissions of environmentally harmful gases (in of biogas, apart from its environmental benefits significant resources to new projects in the power order to achieve lower emission levels) may also such as reduced CO2 emissions and lower volumes generation sector. Their implementation fresignificantly support cogeneration. Importantly, of biological waste, has a social dimension, as it quently entails considerable risks, requires large the advantages of gas-fired cogeneration procontributes to the creation of new jobs and ocexpenditure, and is affected by numerous politijects include lower levels of required expenditure cupational development of people in agricultural cal and economic constraints. On the other hand, than in the case of coal-fired CHP plants, shorter regions (in particular the areas which were the power generation based on gaseous fuel combustimes to completion, and possibility to use external site of former state agricultural farms), i.e. where tion in CHP plants, where electricity and heat are financing. unemployment levels are the highest. Moreover, it simultaneously produced, brings together all most prevents the loss of agricultural production capacivaluable aspects: eco-friendly properties of the The implementation of large power generation ties thanks to the continued cultivation of fields fuel and high efficiency of the process. Currently, projects will enable the Company to create a solid otherwise threatened with gradual transformation projects involving gas-fired facilities are the most base for the power segment in the PGNiG Group into wasteland, and supports local diversification dynamically developing direction in the application and it will also facilitate the ultimate transformaof gas supplies. of natural gas as fuel in power generation. Such tion of the Group into a modern energy conglomprojects entail a range of benefits, not only for the erate. To this end, the Company needs primarily to In November 2009, the General Shareholders PGNiG Group itself but also for our immediate enexpand its offering to include new products which Meeting of PGNiG resolved to establish PGNiG vironment. The growth of Poland’s economy will match the customers’ requirements for various Energia. The new company will perform projects further stimulate demand for electricity. energy carriers, and in particular develop sales of related to the transformation of the PGNiG Group electricity. When looking for new, CSR-compliant into a modern energy conglomerate. PGNiG Enerbusiness solutions, PGNiG focuses not only on gia will be engaged in projects involving construccogeneration, but also on the possibility of replaction of power generating units and investments ing large heat sources with smaller ones, in order in gas-fired cogeneration units, as well as in pilot to improve the energy efficiency of processes and biogas projects. reduce pollutant emissions. 10. New Business Areas 158/ 207 Objective I Initiatives/Best practices Cogeneration – simultaneous generation of electricity and heat Conversion of energy, in particular generation of electricity and heat, should be carried out efficiently and with the lowest possible impact on the CHP system in MPEC Olsztyn] environment. Power generation based on gaseous fuels combustion in CHP plants is to a large extent able to meet these requirements. The PGNiG Group’s strategy provides for the construction Low-power cogeneration of Poland’s largest CHP plant in Stalowa Wola. To systems and the biogas market An increased interest in low-power cogeneradate, this joint venture of Tauron Polska Energia Low-power cogeneration systems are financed tion systems is reflected in the EU and national and PGNiG is the key investment project carried with the project owner’s own funds, and supportregulations which promote such type of systems out by PGNiG Energia. The execution agreement ed by European funds. A project implemented by by enabling trading in red (commercial energy) was signed on May 7th 2010, while the agreements MPEC Olsztyn (heat supply utility) may serve as an and yellow (CHP systems with the capacity lower on the operation of the Elektrociepłownia Stalowa example. The cogeneration unit of MPEC Olsztyn than 1MW) certificates. Thanks to the impleWola CHP plant, sale of electricity, and supply is based on two gas-fired piston engines, with a mentation of such solutions on a larger scale, of fuel gas were executed on March 11th 2011. A total capacity of almost 3MW (1.5 MWEI), and it is the PGNiG Group may be able to expand its gas modern CCTG plant will contribute substantially the first gas-fired cogeneration unit in Olsztyn. It sales volumes through the introduction of a new to lower CO2 emissions and increased security of is expected to produce approximately 9,500MWh product in the form of small gas-fired cogeneraenergy supplies. The CCTG plant is expected to of electricity and 39,000GJ of heat annually, to tion systems, along with the accompanying legal commence operations in 2014. be supplied to the customers through heat disand financial structure. Full identification of the tribution networks, and to reduce the amount of technical viability of gas combustion in micro-CHP Elektrociepłownia Stalowa Wola CHP plant in generated CO2 by approximately 2,160 tonnes. systems is a challenge PGNiG has to take on. For numbers: The connection to the gas system was provided this purpose, PGNiG’s Central Measurement and •• Estimated investment value: PLN 1,900 million by Pomorska Spółka Gazownictwa – Olsztyn Gas Testing Laboratory has launched dedicated pro•• Generation of electricity: 3,100 GWh Distribution Division, through the construction of jects pertaining to generation of electricity and •• Generation of heat: 1,800 TJ the DN 125 medium-pressure gas pipeline and gas heat in micro-CHP systems. The Laboratory is also •• Annual gas consumption: 540 million Nm3 metering station with the capacity of 500 cubic involved in research on the use of biogas. metres per hour. 10. New Business Areas 159/ 207 Objective II Initiatives/Best practices Development of competences Carbon Capture and Storage and execution of pro(CCS) technology environmental projects The European Union commenced work aimed at reducing CO2 emissions from fossil fuels by means The contemporary world is becoming increasingly the Carbon Capture and Storage (CCS) technology. aware of the fact that its further development CCS makes it possible to capture as much as 90% should be governed by the principles of sustainof CO2 emitted by conventional power plants. Curable growth, with particular importance attached rently, pilot and demonstration projects are being to the fundamental limitations such as shrinking carried out in Europe and worldwide. ­PGNiG’s exSiteChar is designed to examine the whole CO2 energy sources and the need to significantly reperience in acid gas injection, combined with our storage site process, starting from preliminary duce CO2 emissions. The PGNiG Group has commitexperts’ knowledge on the appraisal of geological feasibility study on CO2 storage to the adoption ted its human and financial resources to support formations, construction and operation of underof a decision on storage licence in line with EU pro-environmental initiatives, which reflect the ground gas storage facilities, as well as waste storregulations and precisely specified criteria. The current and future needs of the Polish society. age in rock masses, represents a valuable source work involves research at a range of onshore and These initiatives include investment projects which of information, used, among other things, in the offshore locations across Europe. For this purpose, have already brought or are soon to bring tangible implementation of the EU laws in Poland. the following five potential European storage results, as well as expert and scientific projects facilities were chosen, representative of various with longer implementation horizons. PGNiG is the co-author of a European research geological conditions: the North Sea (at the Britproject entitled “Characterisation of European CO2 ish coast), the aquifer in Denmark, natural gas storage – SiteChar” (www.sitechar.eu). The Project, deposits in Poland, the aquifer at the North Sea (at supported by the European Commission, is implethe Norwegian coast) and the aquifer at the South mented by a consortium led by IFP Energies NouAdriatic Sea. velles – a global organisation of world leaders in the area of new energy technologies. The consorThe project will result in the compilation of a tium comprises European research institutions (Pomethodological guide, accompanied by detailed land – AGH University of Science and Technology guidelines, to be used by storage facility operaof Kraków), industrial partners (including PGNiG, tors and supervisory authorities. Public approval Statoil, Vattenfall, Veolia), and the government of of the new CO2 storage technologies represents an Scotland. PGNiG manages a working group inimportant part of the project. Actions taken in this volved in research work on the almost depleted respect will reflect the knowledge of local communatural gas deposits in Załęcze and Żuchlów. nities and their opinion on CCS. 10. New Business Areas 160/ 207 Objective II GEOTHERMAL ENERGY One of the Group’s areas of operation covers recently held a technical conference on geotherservices provided in relation to geothermal promal drilling, attended by representatives of scijects. The renewable nature of geothermal energy ence and investors from Poland, Germany and makes it a solution conducive to the protection of Slovakia. The company also hosted a symposium natural environment, which is in line with the CSR on the use of geothermal energy in cities, with the idea. In 2010, the PGNiG Group companies participarticipation of city mayors. The Group companies pated in numerous geothermal projects, both at are key strategic sponsors of the biennial Polish home and abroad. Geophysical services relating to Geothermal Congress. exploration for geothermal resources were performed by Geofizyka Kraków and Geofizyka Toruń, In Poland, PGNiG cooperates with the consortium which carried out a project for GeoEnergy Bayern implementing a national programme under the in 2010. Very positive assessment of the work led name “Appraisal of formations and structures for to other contracts. Currently, Geofizyka Toruń is safe CO2 storage and a programme for their moniacquiring 3D data for the purposes of geothertoring” managed by the Polish Geological Institute. mal projects in Bavaria. Drilling work in Germany The programme is designed to provide the data was also performed by Poszukiwania Nafty i Gazu and knowledge required to launch safe CCS demJasło. The same company has started a geothermal onstration projects in Poland. project in Poland, in the Commune of Kleszczów near Bełchatów. Moreover, PGNiG participates in the activities of a working group for public communication related to CCS technology, appointed by Waldemar Pawlak, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of EconoPGNiG companies also take part in scientific and my. The main task of the group is to prepare the promotional initiatives in the field of geotherobjectives of the national information campaign mal energy. For many years, Geofizyka Kraków on the CSS technology and coordinate the related and Poszukiwania Nafty i Gazu Jasło have been actions. institutional members of the Polish Geothermal Society. They arrange conferences and scientific symposia which promote geothermal energy as a source of clean energy and serve as a platform to share knowledge and experiences, both in Poland and abroad. Poszukiwania Nafty i Gazu Jasło has Geothermal drilling by PNiG Jasło – Landau project, as part of which a geothermal power plant was built in less than two years. 10. New Business Areas 161/ 207 Objective II realise the need for CNG infrastructure development. Another step aimed at improving the conditions and transparency of the CNG sector was a request for maintaining excise duty exemption after October 31st 2013, lodged by the Chamber of Natural Gas Industry and PGNiG with the Ministry of Finance. Unfortunately, the request has been C O M P R E S S E D N AT U R A L G A S ( C N G ) turned down. PGNiG has been involved in the promotion of compressed natural gas. In February 2010, the PGNiG’s Initiatives/Best practices Moreover, PGNiG arranges meetings with potenManagement Board approved the PGNiG Group’s tial customers, organises seminars and university strategy with regard to the development of the Participation in fairs, conferences, and publications lectures, undertakes initiatives aimed at acquiring CNG market. A team for the implementation of the in industry-related magazines are used by PGNiG knowledge and sharing experience in order to CNG strategy was established at the PGNiG Head to popularise and promote CNG’s potential. While implement best practices concerning CNG. The PoOffice to handle relevant legal matters, as well as these activities have not triggered a sales volume meranian Gas Trading Division alone hosted almost technical and marketing issues. In order to engrowth yet, they are undertaken for the sake of 60 meetings in 2010, which included: hance effectiveness of its actions, PGNiG entered the market’s future development. •• meetings with the public and spreading knowlinto cooperation with the Chamber of Natural Gas edge on CNG (8) Industry, the Ministry of Economy, the Ministry of One of the Company’s most spectacular actions •• participation in fairs and conferences (7) Finance, the Ministry of Environment, the Motor promoting CNG was participation in the 7th Econ•• meetings with car dealers and expanding coTransport Institute, as well as universities of techomy Supertest, which came to be dominated by operation (29) nology (the Wrocław University of Technology, the CNG fuelled vehicles. The Economy Supertest is •• university lectures and educational proWarsaw University of Technology, the AGH Univeran event initiated and organised annually by the grammes for children (11) sity of Science and Technology in Kraków). Polish Journalists’ Autoclub, promoting safe and environmentally-friendly driving. The results of CNG was named the best environmentally-friendly The Ministry of Economy and the Ministry of Enthe Supertest were widely commented on in the product of the 2010 Auto-Moto Show fair in Byvironment are interested in the CNG market depublic media. dgoszcz, and PGNiG was awarded by the President velopment, however this is yet to translate into of the City of Bydgoszcz for support in the prepatangible action. In 2010, PGNiG joined the Interration of the Truck and Bus Show Poland 2010 ministerial Team for Growth of Competitiveness in event, as well as promotion of eco-friendly fuel for the Automotive Industry, which comprises Secredelivery vehicles and trucks. taries and Subsecretaries of State in the Ministries of Finance, Economy, Infrastructure, Education and Higher Learning, Internal Affairs and Administration, Foreign Affairs, and the Environment. PGNiG’s activity has made the government authorities 10. New Business Areas 162/ 207 Objective II PGNiG also takes part in the implementation of PGNiG S.A., the other project participants are the footprint of individual Gas Sales Unit’s operations, large European projects and ideas for CNG use in Chamber of Natural Gas Industry and Cesky Plyare also noteworthy, with the Carpathian and road transport, such as Blue Corridor and GasHighnarensky Svaz. The first Green Line bus will set Lower Silesian Gas Trading Divisions being particuWay, and undertakes smaller-scale initiatives, out already in 2011. larly active in this respect. including the Zielona Linia (Green Line) project, designed to create conditions for environmentalAs a continuation of this initiative, PGNiG took It needs to be emphasised that in Poland there are ly-friendly travel on the route from Wrocław to part in the Congress of the Regions: Local Govapproximately 270 CNG-fuelled buses in operation Prague. ernment – Investment – Development, held in and the advantages of the blue fuel have already Świdnica in May 2010. In addition, it took part in been appreciated by city transport companies in The idea of the project originators, the Gas Sales a panel discussion on the blue fuel and particiGdynia, Zamość, Rzeszów, Radom, Tarnów and Unit in Wałbrzych, was to create a coach route pated in an international conference Gas Engines Walbrzych. The City Transport Company of Gdynia served only with CNG fuelled coaches. Apart from 2010. Local initiatives, undertaken within the has been implementing the programme of ecofriendly buses since 2007. At present, the company already owns 14 buses fuelled with compressed natural gas, and the purchase of additional vehicles is provided for in the Strategy for the City of Gdynia. The investment in the innovative vehicle fleet will be financed from the EU Regional Operational Programme funds. Ultimately Gdynia is expected to operate 40 articulated low-floor CNG buses. Additional funds will be earmarked for the infrastructure expansion, for example building slow-fill stations for refuelling buses with gas, which will reduce the costs. Using CNG vehicles in Gdynia is a source of tangible benefits to all interested parties. The bus company saves money on fuel, the gas distribution company benefits from additional demand for its product, and the citizens of Gdynia can travel by quiet and comfortable means of transport and breathe much cleaner air. Green Line route – a CNG coach will travel between Wrocław and Prague 10. New Business Areas 163/ 207 Objective II LNG One of the key tasks of the PGNiG Group distribution companies consists in expanding the gas distribution systems within the licence areas. Where pipeline-based distribution systems prove economically ineffective, an alternative solution is the temporary use of liquefied natural gas (LNG) pending extension of the gas transmission network. The dynamically developing technology and the planned launch of new LNG production and storage facilities, such as the sea terminal in Świnoujście, confirm that this is the right development direction. The best practices presented in LNG tanks in Ińsko this section constitute only a germ of the idea to apply LNG distribution systems in the areas not yet connected to any gas networks. LNG supplies have been provided in Ińsko since 2010. Implementing the project with the traditional method could be significantly hindered or Initiatives/Best practices delayed due to the large distance from the gas distribution network. In the area there are a number For distribution companies, the possibility of LNG of industrial customers who have expressed their distribution is both a great challenge and a develinterest in natural gas supplies. The process of deopment opportunity. In 2010, a number of measveloping a gas supply system in the town is still at ures were taken in several regions of Poland with its initial stage. Gas consumption since the supply the intention to introduce new services involving start date has amounted to approximately 30,000 LNG distribution and regasification. Wielkopolska cubic metres. Spółka Gazownictwa (WSG) launched a gas supply system based on the LNG technology in Ińsko. The gas network and regasification plant enabling the project implementation were acquired from a third-party company. 10. New Business Areas 164/ 207 Objective II In the Great Mazurian Lakes area, in the towns of Pisz, Ełk, Suwałki, and Olecko, Mazowiecka Spółka Gazownictwa operates independent local hydraulic To make the project possible, Wielkopolska Spółka gas pipeline units fed with propane-butane gas Gazownictwa WSG), in line with applicable provifrom local facilities. This area has no connection sions of the Polish Energy Law, obtained a licence to the gas transmission network and distribution for liquefaction of natural gas and regasification of grid. Since 2009, MSG has been implementing an LNG in LNG units, valid until December 30th 2030. investment project to provide high-methane gas The company treats the project as a temporary based on LNG technology to customers in Pisz, solution pending extension of the gas distribution which at present is supplied with propane-butanenetwork’s coverage and therefore, when the gas air gas only. PGNiG finances the project, while a distribution network reaches Ińsko, the regasifiunit of the Białystok Gas Distribution Division acts cation unit will be transferred to other location as substitute investor. In April 2010, the company within the WSG’s operating area. received a promise for a five-year licence for the Pisz unit to carry out operations consisting in liqAnother Group company, Mazowiecka Spółka Gauefaction of natural gas and regasification of LNG. zownictwa (MSG), also engages in projects involving the use of LNG technology. In 2010, an LNG DeIn 2010, Mazowiecka Spółka Gazownictwa compartment was established at MSG’s Białystok Gas menced preparations to erect LNG regasification The Carpathian Gas Trading Division in Tarnów Distribution Division, to operate as a competence units in Białystok, Suwałki, Mińsk Mazowiecki, and Karpacka Spółka Gazownictwa not only colcentre for such projects. The projects will be priand Ostrołęka. Four other projects, scheduled for laborate in LNG market development in their opmarily implemented in the Province of Białystok, 2011-2014, were submitted for EU subsidy compeerating areas, but also started cooperation with which has the least developed distribution nettition under Measure 10.2 of the Operational Prothe PGNiG Odolanów Branch, which prepared a work within the MSG’s operating area. gramme Infrastructure and Environment. comprehensive offer for the supply of LNG and its regasification. Karpacka Spółka Gazownictwa also prepared its own offer for transport and regasification of LNG. The Carpathian Gas Trading Division and Karpacka Spółka Gazownictwa will use LNG an alternative solution to provide gas to new areas before they are connected to the gas distribution network. 10. New Business Areas 165/ 207 Objective II There are also other projects expected to bear fruit in the future, in which PGNiG is involved through its knowledge, experience, and intelSummary lectual capital of its employees. These include international ventures such as the high-profile In this section, two objectives have been presentPGNiG’s activities carried out as part of the sixth SiteChar initiative, participation in the Ministry of ed, which are regarded as crucial for achieving the strategic pillar: “Seeking new business expansion Economy’s working groups, as well as research acstrategic goal of “Seeking new business expansion opportunities in line with the principle of sustaintivities of PGNiG’s Central Measurement and Testopportunities in line with the principle of sustainable development” include projects involving ing Laboratory in Warsaw. Concurrently, thanks able development”, as it was adopted in the July significant financial outlays, such as the one in to innovative solutions such as the use of LNG, 2009 Strategy. Stalowa Wola, but also a range of activities seen PGNiG is already able to improve everyday life of as investments, the company’s input in shaping people living in various regions. Also, involvement An important theme that came to the fore in 2010 the energy market in agreement with the princiin the developing biogas market, besides being a is unconventional gas exploration. It is an entirely ples of sustainable development. A case in point is contribution to the promotion of alternative ennew kind of operation in Poland. PGNiG holds the our involvement in the promotion of CNG, which ergy sources, may help to solve social difficulties largest number of licences for unconventional gas is starting to bring results. CNG is coming to be in rural areas, especially in poorer regions of Poproduction, and was the first company in Poland seen as the best solution for transport by users land. All of those initiatives follow from the operto perform exploratory drillings in July 2010. Acand legislators alike. PGNiG’s activities resulted in ating philosophy adopted at PGNiG, based on the cordingly, we have also included information on our participation in the E-Mobil Cluster established ideas of sustainable development and responsible shale gas in this section. by the Warsaw University of Technology and the business. Municipal Office of Warsaw. As part of this structure, a team is being established to support environmentally friendly transport in the Capital City of Warsaw. 10. New Business Areas 166/ 207 Commitments for the future Strategic pillar Operational objectives Detailed objectives for next period Expanding the Company’s business to Development of a new products, entering the electricity market with the dualinclude power generation and trading fuel offering (gas plus electricity) for small and medium-sized enterprises as well as business customers Development and implementation of initiatives aimed at the gas market deregulation, preparing PGNiG for market entry of new competitors in Poland Development of gas-fired projects in cooperation with Polish and foreign partners, using off-system gas to generate electricity in the modular technology, offering power outsourcing services for the corporate sector Preparation of an incentive scheme for members of project teams, Seeking new business improvement of the management of large investment and M&A projects, and expansion opportunities in line enhancement of research capabilities with the principle of sustainable development Development of competences in Complete assessment of the technical viability of natural gas combustion in environmentally friendly solutions micro-CHP systems by the Central Measurement and Testing Laboratory (storage of carbon dioxide, geothermal Further efforts aimed at promoting CNG among fleet customers (transport, energy, CNG, LNG) sewage disposal companies, etc), preparation of a comprehensive offer that will increase CNG competitiveness, including development of a CNG-based product which would be an all-inclusive solution for bus depots Continued collaboration with the Chamber of Natural Gas Industry to keep/ introduce systemic solutions supporting the development of the CNG market in Poland (maintaining excise duty exemption or making excise duty introduction conditional on reaching a prediefined CNG sales volume threshold), lobbying activities, and fostering of social awareness Prepared by: Przemysław Baciak, Małgorzata Błaszczyńska, Radosław Galbarczyk, Marek Hoffmann, Grażyna Janicka, Monika Mielcarek, Marta Malinowska, Dariusz Pastuszka, Emilia Tomalska. 10. New Business Areas 167/ 207 Formations containing natural gas are present all over the world, but only in the United States are they used to extract gas on an industrial scale, with shale gas production growing rapidly from At present, companies interested in unconven8.5 billion cubic metres in 1996 to 25 billion cubic tional gas are completing their analyses of archival metres in 2006. In recent years, up to 4 thousand materials sourced from earlier geological drillings new wells have been drilled, which, despite the carried out in Poland. Some of them have also percosts (the estimated cost of an unconventional gas formed additional seismic work and geochemical well is approximately three times higher than in surveys. At the end of 2010 and at the beginning the case of a conventional gas well), will provide of 2011, a few companies carried out first drillings steady flow of gas for the next 30 years. At prefor shale gas – the early data is promising. Howsent, approximately 10% of gas produced in the ever, it will take two to three years to appraise the 10.1. United States is unconventional gas. size of shale gas resources in Poland and to assess the physical possibilities of its production. Unconventional A growing interest in shale gas has been also observed in Poland. It is assumed that shale gas can In 2010, PGNiG finished drilling the Markowola-1 gas be found at depths ranging from 500 metres to 4 kilometres, within a sidelong belt stretching from central Pomerania to the Lublin region, and within borehole in the Province of Lublin. As analysis of the geophysical data revealed possible tight gas deposits, hydraulic fracturing procedure followed Shale gas and tight gas are the the foreland of the Sudety Mountains. In recent in the borehole. latest sources of unconventional years the Ministry of Environment issued over 70 gas. unconventional gas exploration licences to more Shale is a low permeability formation and thus than 40 entities, of which PGNiG holds 20%, the requires fracturing to release the gas. Fracturing largest number in Poland. Moreover, PGNiG Group creates secondary channels in the rock, which encompanies perform seismic and drilling work conables commercial gas production. Increasing shale tracted by foreign companies, which increases the gas production to an industrial scale in the recent Group’s revenues. The drilling companies – PNiG years was made possible thanks to new technoloJasło, PNiG Kraków and PNiG Nafta Piła – made gies which result in intensive fracturing around the substantial investments in modern drilling equipborehole. Gas boreholes in shale are often drilled ment that meets all requirements of the investors horizontally, with horizontal sections as long as and is environmentally friendly (may be electric 3 km. It makes it possible to maximise the surface powered, produces less noise). 10. New Business Areas 168/ 207 of drilled rock. Shale gas may be contained in the rock’s micropores or may be adsorbed in particles of organic substances. In the first case, it is released directly into created fractures, while in the second case the adsorbed gas is released as a result of lowering of the reservoir pressure that For a dozen or so months shale gas has been an follows the borehole drilling. issue widely covered in the media. Interestingly, opinions have polarised and articles on shale gas The first borehole, Markowola-1, was classified as oscillate between extremities. There are enthudry and scheduled for abandonment, as the flow siastic reports of gigantic shale gas deposits in of gas was found to be insufficient to commence Poland, but also articles which may raise concern industrial-scale production. In March 2011, PGNiG among Poles. For instance, photographs depictdrilled the Lubocino-1 borehole in the vicinity of ing oil production from oil sands and the resulting Wejherowo in the north of Poland. Preliminary degradation of the environment were published in data indicate the gas flow level is satisfactory. the press as an example of areas where shale gas PGNiG intends to spend PLN 100-200m on shale is produced, which is not the true picture. Good gas exploration in Poland in 2011. communication is therefore necessary, primarily with the local communities in the areas of exploration. PGNiG has already taken steps to address this problem, focussing on the inhabitants of those areas where we are already carrying out shale gas exploration activities or where such activities are planned. A year after the first borehole was drilled in Markowola, PGNiG held a special workshop that was primarily aimed at educating the representatives of local governments and authorities of the communes where shale gas exploration and proBuilding good relations with local communities duction will be carried out. For more information and care for the natural environment are the founon this subject, please refer to the section devoted dations of PGNiG’s Sustainable Development and to the environment. Corporate Responsibility Strategy, but also principles by which the company has always been acting in its operations. Whatever the final result of shale gas exploration may be, it is worth to invest in good communication and open dialogue. This is the approach we will adopt this time as well. 10. New Business Areas 169/ 207 10.2. Energy efficiency – a whim or necessity? In August 2011, the Energy Efficiency Act, adopted by the S e j m ( l o w e r c h a m b e r o f P o l i s h P a r l i a m e n t ) i n A p r i l 2 0 1 1 1, came into force. Zofia Grajwoda, an advisor to PGNiG’s Management Board, speaks about how the Act may affect energy consumers and PGNiG and how the Company is preparing for this process. What is the Energy Efficiency Act about and why was it adopted? Energy efficiency improvement is one of the three energy efficiency audits and the procedures for objectives set out by the European Union to progranting an energy efficiency auditor licence. tect the climate. The Energy Efficiency Act, passed Under the Energy Efficiency Act, by 2016 the anon April 15th 2011, implements Directive 2006/32/ nual average final energy consumption in Poland, EC of the European Parliament and of the Council i.e. energy used by end users for own purposes, on energy end-use efficiency and energy services. should fall by 9% relative to the annual average The purpose of the Directive is to oblige the EU consumption in 2001 – 2005. member states to optimise energy use and promote innovative technologies, which minimise the adverse environmental impact of the energy sector. It also lays down the rules for preparing Zofia Grajwoda, Management Board’s advisor 10. New Business Areas 170/ 207 In connection with the entry into force of the Energy Efficiency Act, there has been some talk about the obligation imposed on companies to buy the so-called “white certificates”. Can you explain that term? “White certificate” is a popular term for energy efficiency certificates. As the Act takes effect, every company that sells natural gas, electricity or heat A detailed list of energy-saving measures is to be to end users will have to obtain such certificates. published, and a procedure for determining the While the target set out by the Act – i.e. energy number of white certificates to be obtained by the How can this be accomplished? savings of 9% – applies to every form of energy above companies every year will be established by Primarily through more rational and economical used by end users, i.e. solid fuels, diesel fuels, fuel way of a regulation of the Minister of Economy. energy use at every level, starting with energy oils, gasoline, electricity, heat and gas, the obligaproducers and sellers and finishing with end users. tion to purchase the certificates and submit them Companies holding white certificates will subInvestment projects and schemes based on enerto the President of URE for redemption is placed mit them to the President of URE, who will then gy-efficient solutions will be promoted. Although only on the companies referred to above that sell redeem them in accordance with the applicable the Act itself is aimed at reducing energy conenergy carriers via networks (electricity, heat and procedure. A company that fails to obtain the sumption by end users (approximately 80% of efnatural gas). required number of certificates will have to pay a ficiency improvement projects), it also provides for substitute fee, and should it default on its obligamodernisation projects to reduce energy requireThese companies will be required to obtain a tions – a fine. These payments will be made to the ments of electricity and heat producers as well as specific number of certificates depending on their National Fund for Environmental Protection and projects to minimise transmission and distribution energy sales volumes. White certificates may be Water Management and allocated for financing of losses of network companies (transmitting or disobtained for the implementation of projects that efficiency improvement initiatives, as well as detributing electricity, heat and natural gas). will yield energy savings for end users or reduce velopment of cogeneration or renewable energy own energy requirements of the companies, thus sources. indirectly enhancing the efficiency of electricity and heat generation and reducing losses associIf a company does not obtain white certificates ated with the transmission and distribution of from its customers, it may purchase them on a electricity, heat and gas. power exchange. This process is analogous with the procedure already in place for the green certificates issued for energy generated using renewable energy sources, and the red ones for cogeneration, i.e. production of heat and electricity in the most efficient way. 10. New Business Areas 171/ 207 In one of the publications in Przegląd Gazowniczy, a magazine of the Chamber of Natural Gas Industry, it has been said straight out that the Energy Efficiency Act is detrimental to the gas sector (“Problematic Energy Efficiency Act”, Przegląd Gazowniczy No. 2, June 2011) It is true that the Act imposes unequal obligations Another argument for the unequal treatment of on sellers of various energy carriers to the disaddifferent energy producers is that under the Act What does the new legislation mean for PGNiG? vantage of the gas industry. large and energy-intensive customers of electricity We will certainly have to address two issues. producers may account for the effects of energyFirstly, the consumption of gas by end users will This is a subject for another discussion, but I will saving modernisation projects in their settlements decline, driven by energy efficiency measures. briefly present some reasons supporting this relating to the white certificates. Unfortunately, I estimate that it might decrease by approximately statement, such as, for example, the already menthis benefit is not available to large, energy-in0.84 billion cubic metres by 2016, which will in tioned white certificates. The requirement to hold tensive consumers of natural gas. As you can see, turn bring down our revenues. It should be noted, such certificates applies exclusively on the operathe electricity generation sector is clearly at an however, that gas consumption is already highly tors selling electricity, natural gas and heat. It does advantage. efficient nowadays, so potential energy savings not apply to other energy carriers, such as solid for end users are slim. The Act provides for the fuels (coal, coke) or petroleum-derived liquid fuels Still, we have to prepare ourselves for the imexecution of energy efficiency projects where (gasoline, diesel oil and fuel oil), while the energy plementation of the Act. How is PGNiG doing energy savings are measured relative to primary saving target of 9% has been set for all energy that? energy with a view to generating biggest savings carriers. Implementation of the Energy Efficiency Act is part (more than 10 tonnes per year) at the lowest cost. of the Sustainable Development and Responsible This involves some risk that energy savings will Business Strategy, adopted by the PGNiG Group in be achieved using energy carriers other than gas, July 2009. In response to the measures introduced which are used and converted from primary enunder the Act, the Management Board adopted ergy with a lower efficiency. certain objectives. Each of the six strategic pillars of our CSR strategy provides for tasks and opSecondly, we will have to bear the costs of purerational goals to implement the national energy chasing white certificates. It is estimated that they efficiency plan. will not exceed 3% of a company’s annual revenue, which in our case amounts to PLN 330m a year. 10. New Business Areas 172/ 207 The implementation of the Energy Efficiency Act in the PGNiG Group will be a “dual-track” process: •• We will introduce measures to enhance energy efficiency at our Company, primarily through fuel and energy savings and lower gas distriPGNiG is also involved in the promotion of gas bution losses. pressure energy and energy contained in the res•• Similar steps will be taken for our customers, ervoir fluid as energy recoverable during industrial mainly in the form of co-financing of energy processes, support for the construction of biogas efficiency projects aimed at reducing energy plants, research into energy-efficient technologies, consumption by end users. etc., all aiming to reduce the demand for primary energy. How will it work in practice? Energy efficiency schemes within the Group will What about the measures for customers? involve mainly: Our role will primarily involve encouraging cusWe are faced then with the task of preparing an •• planning renovations and modernisations of tomers to employ energy-saving solutions using attractive energy efficiency offer, sale and related buildings so that they include measures to regaseous fuel. On the other hand, we will have advisory services. To that end, PGNiG has prepared duce energy requirement, for instance through to search for new business opportunities for our a range of trainings for our key customers’ conlimiting emissions or recovering energy from Group, that is develop new services related to sultants, to educate them on how to present the gas decompression, energy efficiency improvement. advantages of energy-saving gas-fired solutions •• reducing losses and fuel consumption in distriand then encourage the customer to use them. bution and storage, In light of the on-going liberalisation of the gas •• thermal efficiency improvement projects at gas market, such initiatives are indispensable for the facilities and replacement of equipment with Group not only to keep its leading market position, more efficient machinery. but also to prevent the loss of its market share to Polish and foreign competitors, offering products Another important issue is the adoption of energy based on natural gas or other energy carriers. We efficiency as a criterion in public tenders for the should bear in mind that in a few years’ time it will execution of investment projects and procurebe a completely different market. The sooner we ment. A genuine innovation is the planned introproactively prepare for such changes, the better. duction of the job of a certified energy efficiency auditor at our Company. 10. New Business Areas 173/ 207 And the last, but certainly not least important of our tasks, is PGNiG’s involvement in legal matters. I believe that as one of the largest actors on the Polish energy market, we should actively participate in legislative work on the Energy Efficiency Act, including the secondary regulations, and also As far as exploring new business areas is conengage in the process of issuing opinions on the cerned, in my opinion it will be crucial that PGNiG new EU directive on the subject, taking into actakes part in co-financing of energy-efficiency count the specificity of the Polish energy market, modernisation projects for major customers not and on projects designed to bring the national only from the industrial but also the public adlegislation in line with the changing EU regulaministration sector, since, in accordance with the tions. We should also work towards establishing Energy Efficiency Act, the public sector is equally mechanisms of cooperation with customers that obliged to ensure energy efficiency. That is why implement modernisation projects as well as the we should, as soon as possible, start cooperatmethods of measuring energy savings produced ing with local authorities on projects designed to by projects already carried out by the customers. improve energy efficiency in particular municipalities and communes. In the case of this group As you can see, PGNiG is getting ready to fulfil of customers, it will be important to co-finance the obligations imposed by the Energy Efficiency investment projects related to energy efficiency Act by taking efforts that address the issue comimprovement and offer consultancy on environprehensively and go beyond the scope of the mental protection, especially in the areas which requirements. are planned to be connected to the gas transmission network. To that end, we may leverage the Thank you potential of the Group’s construction companies and extend the range of their services to include upgrade of gas customers’ installations, as well as Interviewer: Anna Jarosz, PGNiG construction of modern buildings based on energy-efficient technologies and facilities for combined heat, cold and power production, including those relying on natural energy contained in un1) Bill – April 15th 2011. (Dz. U. 94 poz.551) derground reservoirs. 174/ 207 11. Awards and distinctions Awards and distinctions received by PGNiG’s entities in the reporting period (from January 2010 to December 2010). Company name Awards and Awarding organisation Reasons for the award/criteria/grounds distinctions received PGNiG Odolanów Employer – General Labour Inspector The Branch was nominated for the Main Award by the Board of the Contest, Branch Safe Workplace appointed by the General Labour Inspector and composed of experts of the Provider – Main State Labour Inspection Authority, as well as representatives of employers Award organisations: Business Centre Club, Employers of Poland, Polish Confederation of Private Employers Lewiatan (PKPP Lewiatan) and the Polish Craft Association. PGNiG Sanok Branch Investor in Human Management Observatory Award presented to companies which are actively involved in their employees’ Capital Foundation development and in the proper operation of their human resources management systems. PGNiG Sanok Branch Certificate of The Board of Students Certificate of Distinction for active involvement and support of screw cap Distinction of the University of collection. A pro-environmental action. Agriculture in Kraków PGNiG Sanok Branch Patron Parnas Culture Development Award presented for the support of musical education of the youth and equalStatuette Foundation of the Province opportunity action targeted at young people from small towns of the Carpathian of Rzeszów Euroregion. PGNiG Zielona Góra 2010 Business Mayor of Zielona Góra The Branch ranked first in the Community Friendly Company category. The Branch Award of the Mayor award is granted to companies whose efforts significantly contribute to the of Zielona Góra development of the city. PGNiG Upper Silesian Media Diamond Study and Programme The 2010 Media Diamond Leaf was awarded to the Division by the Board Gas Trading Division in Leaf Centre for the Press, of the „Poland in Europe – Europe in Poland Programme for the successful Zabrze Radio and Television implementation of sustainable development and corporate social responsibility Warsaw-Katowice-Kraków strategy, which combines the objectives of a business with social and environmental objectives. The award also reflects the Division’s exemplary cooperation with nationwide and local media. 11. Awards and distinctions 175/ 207 Company name Awards and Awarding organisation Reasons for the award/criteria/grounds distinctions received PGNiG Carpathian Gas Acknowledgments, Schools, kindergartens, Acknowledgements for assistance, generosity, and involvement in various Trading Division – Jasło certificates, Youth Culture Centre, cultural, sports and social events. Gas Sales Unit statuettes Culture Centre of Jasło, foundations, organisations supported by the Jasło Gas Sales Unit etc. PGNiG Carpathian Gas Medal, cup and Jasielski Klub Sportowy For the support of the Club’s day-to-day activities, and involvement in the Trading Division – Jasło certificate Czarni 1910 Jasło (a sports celebration of the Club’s 100th Anniversary. The awards were presented at Gas Sales Unit club) the Gala held at the Culture Centre of Jasło with the participation of the local government representatives, invited members of the Sejm and Senate (the lower and the upper chamber of Polish Parliament), as well as representatives of the governing bodies of the Polish Football Association (including its President). PGNiG Carpathian Gas Chopin Year The Karol Szymanowski For the support of all activities conducted by the Karol Szymanowski Trading Division – Sponsor Philharmonic of Kraków Philharmonic of Kraków in 2010. PGNiG is one of the few long-term patrons Kraków Gas Sales Unit of the institution. The statuettes awarded by the Philharmonic’s Management are tokens of gratitude, emphasising the importance of cooperation with the Kraków Gas Sales Unit. PGNiG Carpathian Gas Friend of the Against the Odds The Statuette presented by the Against the Odds Foundation is to express the Trading Division – Enchanted Birdie Foundation Foundation’s gratitude for the Kraków Gas Sales Units’ cooperation in 2010, Kraków Gas Sales Unit including in particular the support of the Enchanted Song Festival, and the planned broadening of the cooperation in 2011. The award was presented by the Board of the Anna Dymna Against the Odds Foundation and the Programme Board of the Enchanted Song Festival. PGNiG Carpathian Gas Medal on the The Chamber of Industry The Medal was awarded for many years’ cooperation with the Chamber and Trading Division – occasion of the and Commerce in Rzeszów support of its operations. Rzeszów Gas Sales Unit 20th Anniversary of the Chamber of Industry and Commerce in Rzeszów 11. Awards and distinctions 176/ 207 Company name Awards and Awarding organisation Reasons for the award/criteria/grounds distinctions received PGNiG Carpathian Gas Special Professor Marian Zembala, Acknowledgements for the support of a campaign promoting the idea of Trading Division – acknowledgements MD, Chairman of the transplants, carried out by the Silesian Centre for Heart Diseases of Zabrze, and Sandomierz Gas Sales Scientific Committee at the for the assistance to the Zabrze Section of the Heart Transplant Association. Unit Ministry of Health, Director of the Silesian Centre for Heart Diseases of Zabrze PGNiG Carpathian Gas Special Józef Kotarski, President of Acknowledgements for the financial assistance to the Castle without Barriers Trading Division – acknowledgements the It’s Good that You Are project, under which PGNiG co-financed the purchase of equipment supporting Sandomierz Gas Sales Here (Dobrze, że jesteś) the blind in moving around facilities and familiarising themselves with the Unit Association exhibitions of Sandomierz museums and collections of the town’s libraries. PGNiG Carpathian Gas Distinction in the The Award Board Acknowledgements for the support of cultural events in 2010. In 2008, the Trading Division – Patron of Culture appointed by the Mayor of PGNiG Sandomierz Gas Sales Unit was awarded a statuette in the Patron of Sandomierz Gas Sales category Zamość Culture category. Despite being again nominated in 2009 and 2010, the Unit Unit received a distinction only, in accordance with the Rules of the Award. PGNiG Pomeranian Certificate of The Contest Committee of Certificate of Distinction for professionally prepared Fair exhibition and Gas Trading Division – Distinction the Track&Bus Show Poland promotion of compressed natural gas in the Bydgoszcz region, as well as for the Bydgoszcz Gas Sales 2010 Fair and the Mayor of support in the event preparation. Unit Bydgoszcz PGNiG Pomeranian Special Award The Contest Committee of Special Award for the innovative product offering and promotion of new Gas Trading Division – the 8th AUTOSHOW 2010 technological solutions. Bydgoszcz Gas Sales Automotive Fair Unit PGNiG Pomeranian Congratulatory Environmental Education Congratulations and acknowledgements for the cooperation on and involvement Gas Trading Division – letter Centre of the Province of in the promotion of environmental education. Bydgoszcz Gas Sales Bydgoszcz Unit PGNiG Pomeranian Certificate The SUE RYDER Association Certificate for many years’ cooperation in the support of the annual charitable Gas Trading Division – of Bydgoszcz concert promoting the idea of palliative and hospice care. Bydgoszcz Gas Sales Unit 11. Awards and distinctions 177/ 207 Company name Awards and Awarding organisation Reasons for the award/criteria/grounds distinctions received PGNiG Pomeranian The Pomeranian Edytor Press Publishing Participation in the 7th Pomeranian Eagle Poll organised by the publisher of the Gas Trading Division – Eagle Statuette House Tygodnik Wieczór weekly. The poll is organised under the auspices of the Gdańsk Gdańsk Gas Sales Unit Provincial Governor and the Speaker of the Gdańsk Provincial Assembly. It is designed to award individuals and companies with outstanding achievements in the field of business, culture, social initiatives, scientific research or sports. PGNiG Pomeranian EnvironmentProvince Fund for Being a seller of environment-friendly energy carrier, the company is actively Gas Trading Division – Friendly Angel Environmental Protection involved in environmental protection. The Eco-Team Programme (Program Olsztyn Gas Sales Unit Statuette Ekozespołów) responds to the expectations of children who would like to actively express their care for the environment. This campaign promoting environmentfriendly lifestyles among school pupils enjoys enormous interest and encourages a growing number of people to get involved. Thus the project has become a fixed feature in the calendar of events of companies, educational institutions and local governments of the Province of Olsztyn. Since 2000, the number of participants in the Eco-Team Programme has increased tenfold. In 2010, over 10,000 children and teenagers participated. PGNiG Pomeranian Distinction granted Municipal Office of Olsztyn Distinction granted for the support of the Safe Olsztyn Programme. The initiative Gas Trading Division – by the Mayor of comprises year-round actions of the Municipal Office in the field of broadlyOlsztyn Gas Sales Unit Olsztyn meant safety of inhabitants of Olsztyn. The Olsztyn Gas Sales Unit joined the Programme several years ago, promoting natural gas as a safe source of energy. 11. Awards and distinctions 178/ 207 Company name Awards and Awarding organisation Reasons for the award/criteria/grounds distinctions received PGNiG Pomeranian Acknowledgements The Partnership for the Acknowledgements for the support of the 9th Countrywide Schools for Gas Trading Division – Environment Foundation Environment-Friendly Development Conference. The conference, held on an Olsztyn Gas Sales Unit annual basis, serves as the venue for summarising the international Green Flag Programme promoting environmental protection. The Green Flag is a title awarded to schools all over the world under the Eco-Schools Programme (www.eco-schools.org), organised since 1994 and joined by around 15,000 schools from 43 countries of Europe, as well as Africa, South America, Asia and Pacific. To date, nearly 4,500 schools have been awarded Green Flags. The EcoSchools Programme is based on the Environmental Management Systems (EMAS, ISO 14001) designed to improve the environmental awareness among school pupils through actions promoting effective use of energy and commodities and sustainable waste management (including recycling) at schools and around them. Górnośląska Spółka Golden Laurels The Regional Chamber of GSG was awarded for embracing both business objectives and social needs in its Gazownictwa (GSG) for Skill and Commerce in Katowice operations, sharing its resources with its environment and the local and regional Competence in the communities, guaranteeing fair work conditions for its employees, promoting Socially Responsible employees’ development and education, enabling the employees to reach a balance Company category between work and private life, promoting equal opportunities, as well as including environmental aspects in its operations, for instance through environmental protection investment projects, education, renewable natural resources, etc. The award is all the more valuable as it was granted in a public poll held among inhabitants of the region and members of the Regional Chamber of Commerce in Katowice, who gave the top grade to the company’s CSR initiatives. Górnośląska Spółka Pearl of the Polish Institute of Economic GSG was distinguished in the ranking of Polish companies and granted the Pearl Gazownictwa (GSG) Economy Sciences of the Polish of the Polish Economy title in the Large Pearls category. The ranking comprises Academy of Sciences companies reporting total annual revenues of at least PLN 100 million (Large and the publishing house Pearls) or PLN 1 billion (Great Pearls). The assessed companies must also meet Oficyna Wydawnicza Rynek a predefined minimum value on a number of criteria set by the Institute of Polski Sp. z o.o. Economic Sciences of the Polish Academy of Sciences, such as: revenue growth dynamics, sales profitability, debt servicing, gross ROA, net ROE, work efficiency, and total factor productivity. 11. Awards and distinctions 179/ 207 Company name Awards and Awarding organisation Reasons for the award/criteria/grounds distinctions received Górnośląska Spółka Fair Play 2010 Institute for Private GSG ranked among top companies and, in addition to being awarded the Gazownictwa (GSG) Company Certificate Enterprise and Democracy Certificate, was nominated for the Fair Play 2010 Company Statuette. The and National Chamber of Certificate confirms that in its operations GSG successfully combines ethical and Commerce environmental aspects of business with efficiency, while maintaining openness and transparency of operations and reliability with respect to its stakeholders, that is customers, business partners and employees, in line with the sustainable development principles. Karpacka Spółka Man of the Year Gazeta Krakowska daily The title was awarded by readers of Gazeta Krakowska for Mr Celestyn Gazownictwa – Jasło title for Celestyn Żeliszewski’s selfless help: in May 2010 Mr Żeliszewski risked his own life to save Gas Distribution Żeliszewski two young people from car fire. Division – Nowy Sącz Gas Distribution Region Karpacka Spółka Man of the Year Gazeta Krakowska daily The title was awarded by readers of Gazeta Krakowska for financial support of Gazownictwa title for Bogdan cultural, sports and educational projects in the region. Pastuszko Karpacka Spółka Golden Engineer Editorial team of the The title in the Management category was awarded by readers of Przegląd Gazownictwa 2010 Przegląd Techniczny weekly Techniczny to Mr Bogdan Pastuszko, President of the Management Board. and Polish Federation of Engineering Associations NOT Karpacka Spółka Amicus Minorum The Assistance to the The Amicus Minorum title was awarded for assistance to disabled children. Gazownictwa title Disabled Foundation of Stróże Karpacka Spółka Amber Bow of the The Federation of the Award for regular support of the foundation taking care of post-mastectomy Gazownictwa – Amazons Amazons Associations patients. Sandomierz Gas Distribution Division 11. Awards and distinctions 180/ 207 Company name Awards and Awarding organisation Reasons for the award/criteria/grounds distinctions received Karpacka Spółka Rose of the Polish The Polish Red Cross – Distinction for active involvement in humanitarian help to others. Gazownictwa – Tarnów Red Cross Tarnów Branch Gas Distribution Division Karpacka Spółka Pearl of the Polish Institute of Economic Certificate confirming KSG’s position among the largest and most effective Polish Gazownictwa (KSG) Economy Sciences of the Polish companies. Academy of Sciences and the publishing house Oficyna Wydawnicza Rynek Polski Sp. z o.o. Karpacka Spółka Golden Idea The Science and Health The title of Company Financing Polish Science. Gazownictwa (KSG) Foundation Karpacka Spółka Quality of the Year Polskie Centrum Badań Quality of the Year is a countrywide project designed to support, develop and Gazownictwa (KSG) i Certyfikacji S.A. (Polish promote quality-oriented approach to business among companies; KSG was Centre for Testing and awarded the title for the implementation of ISO certificates in 2009. Certification) and the editorial team of Biznes Raport Karpacka Spółka Museum Friend Regional Museum of The Museum Friend title was awarded for regular support of the Museum’s Gazownictwa – Rzeszów operations. Rzeszów Gas Distribution Division Karpacka Spółka Golden Chestnut Mayor of Lublin Award for a long-standing support to Save the Chestnut Trees in Lublin initiative. Gazownictwa – Lublin Gas Distribution Division 11. Awards and distinctions 181/ 207 Company name Awards and Awarding organisation Reasons for the award/criteria/grounds distinctions received Karpacka Spółka Better Tomorrow Their Better Tomorrow Award for many years’ involvement in assistance to the disabled. The Division Gazownictwa – Tarnów Association has offered help to the Association for a long time, helping it organise trips and Gas Distribution picnics for the disabled, and supporting day-to-day operations of the day care Division centre and occupational therapy workshops. Karpacka Spółka Mother at Work Rzeczpospolita daily, Santa In the 3rd edition of this contest, KSG competed against 117 large and small Gazownictwa (KSG) Distinction Claus Foundation companies for the title of an Exceptionally Mother-Friendly Company. KSG was awarded a distinction for being well above the average, exceptional. Karpacka Spółka Patron of the Cultural Centre of Przemyśl Title awarded in recognition of a long-standing support for the Centre’s art Gazownictwa – Cultural Centre initiatives. Jarosław Gas Distribution Division Mazowiecka Spółka Workplace Safety Central Institute for Labour Workplace Safety Leader’s Golden Card is awarded to employers who apply Gazownictwa Leader’s Golden Protection – National modern science and technology to promote knowledge about occupational Card Research Institute health and safety and strive to adjust workplace conditions to the standards of the European Union. Mazowiecka Spółka Staff-Friendly NFZZ Solidarność NSZZ Solidarność awards certificates for the observance of labour law, in Gazownictwa Employer particular the employees’ right to form trade unions. Employers who entered the competition had to prove that their actions are in line with the values endorsed by NFZZ Solidarność, such as: permanent employment, observance of labour laws and standards, and the obligation to protect employees’ right to represent their interests. The certificate is valid for three years. Mazowiecka Spółka Education-Friendly Łódź Centre for the Award presented in recognition of the company’s involvement in the life of the Gazownictwa Partner Development of Vocational Gas Industry Vocational School forming part of Vocational School Complex No. 3 Teachers of Łódź. Mazowiecka Spółka CSR PARTNER of the Satoris Foundation for Award for supporting projects contributing to the resolution of crucial social Gazownictwa Satoris Foundation Active Philanthropy issues in Poland. Pomorska Spółka 2010 Patron of Mayor of Gdańsk The company received this award for supporting local sporting activities in 2010. Gazownictwa Sports in Gdańsk 11. Awards and distinctions 182/ 207 Company name Awards and Awarding organisation Reasons for the award/criteria/grounds distinctions received Pomorska Spółka 2010 Best Employer Employers of the Province The company was awarded the title of 2010 Best Employer in the Province Gazownictwa (PSG) in the Province of of Gdańsk of Gdańsk in the Large Employer category as part of a contest organised by Gdańsk Employers of the Province of Gdańsk. Adam Kielak, CEO of PSG, received the award from Roman Zaborowski, Governor of the Province of Gdańsk, during an official gala at the Artus Court in Gdańsk. Wielkoposlka Spółka Hipolit Statuette Hipolit Cegielski Society, The Best in Poland Consumer Contest of Service Quality is one of the oldest Gazownictwa (WSG) and the right to Poznań Province contests aimed at the promotion of companies, institutions and services. It use a registered Association of Trade and has been held since 2000. In 2010, WSG was listed among the best European logo “The Best in Services, Radio Merkury, companies that offer their services in Poland. The company was awarded a Poland” Merkuriusz Polska monthly, certificate which grants it the right to use the Best in Poland logo until 2013. TVP S.A. of Poznań, EuroPartner Geofizyka Toruń Quality of the Year Polskie Centrum Badań The distinction is awarded every year by Polskie Centrum Badań 2010 i Certyfikacji S.A. (Polish i Certyfikacji S.A., editorial team of Biznes Raport monthly, and Agencja in the Services Centre for Testing and Kreatywna Public PR. Geofizyka Toruń was recognised for its care for the top category Certification), Biznes quality of service in acquiring, processing and interpreting seismic data, which Raport monthly, Agencja is reflected in the management procedures adopted by the company, including Kreatywna Public PR operational planning, management and supervision, as well as incentivising employees. The management elements applied by the company are also confirmed by the quality policy and ISO Certificates. PNiG Jasło 2010 Forbes’ Forbes magazine The Forbes’ Diamonds is a ranking of Polish companies whose value is growing Diamond at the fastest pace. The ranking, prepared by the Forbes monthly in cooperation with Dun & Bradstreet, is published based on a Swiss business valuation methodology, which takes into account both financial performance and value of the companies’ assets, and enables corporate potential measurement considering the value of capital expenditure and potential for sales revenue and profit growth. PNiG was listed among large companies (revenue exceeding PLN 250m), where it took a respectable second place in the Province of Rzeszów and ranked 49th nationwide. 11. Awards and distinctions 183/ 207 Company name Awards and Awarding organisation Reasons for the award/criteria/grounds distinctions received PNiG Jasło 2010 Reliable Rzecz o Biznesie – The purpose of this competition is to select best employers in Poland, especially Employer of the supplement to from among companies that apply new and interesting HR solutions. The Year (Nominated) Rzeczpospolita daily programme was created to identify, award and promote companies with exemplary HR policies, which translate into superior quality of products and services on the demanding domestic market. With the general notion of employment reliability at its centre, the selection criteria also included work conditions, salaries paid in a timely manner, social conditions, career paths, internal and external opinions about the company, and employment growth rate in recent years. Rzeczpospolita, Employers of Poland, and the Polish Agency for Enterprise Development are partners of this competition. Poszukiwania Nafty Forbes’ Diamond Forbes magazine The title was awarded to PNiG in the category of companies of the Province of i Gazu Kraków with revenues exceeding PLN 250m. Poszukiwania Nafty Pearl of the Polish Editorial team of the For consistent implementation of the company’s policy and strategy, and leading i Gazu Kraków Economy (Large Polish Market monthly position among the most dynamic and effective enterprises in Poland. Pearl) and Institute of Economic Sciences of the Polish Academy of Sciences Poszukiwania Nafty i Oil & Gas Industry World Finance For the best drilling and contractor company. Gazu Kraków Sp. z o.o. Awards 2010 PNiG NAFTA European Crown Board of the Poland in Award presented for the consistent technological development and preserving Europe – Europe in Poland the sound business and financial condition of the company in the dynamically Media Programme (related changing environment (including maintenance of own technical facilities). The with the Rzeczpospolita company was also appreciated for its support and cooperation programme daily) for training of upperand mid-level technical staff, which is as a paradigm example of combining business and CSR, and promotion of Poland and Piła among various cultural and business communities on three continents. European Crown is a token of recognition for fostering the learning organisation culture at the company, whose operations are founded on knowledge and safe work conditions and which is environmentally friendly. 11. Awards and distinctions 184/ 207 Company name Awards and Awarding organisation Reasons for the award/criteria/grounds distinctions received PNiG NAFTA HIT 2010 The Board composed of Award for performing drilling work, granted to operators carrying out county governors of the unconventional gas exploration projects in Poland. Province of Poznań and other professionals related to the economy and local government of the region PNiG NAFTA Achievers The Tygodnik Pilski weekly The Company’s President has been included in the group of Achievers by Tygodnik Pilski. It was yet another time the journalists of Tygodnik Pilski, Chodzieżanin, and Głos Wielkopolski, belonging to the Polskapress publishing group, identified and distinguished individuals, companies, and projects contributing to the development of local communities. PNiG NAFTA Siriuses 2011 Piotr Głowski, Mayor of Piła Award in recognition of PNiG NAFTA Sp. z o.o.’s consistent establishing of the company’s brand in the Polish and global drilling market. The message of the award: per aspera ad astra (to the stars through difficulties), perfectly reflects the entire 55-year-old history of the company’s operations. PNiG NAFTA Quality of the Year Polskie Centrum Badań The company won the 5th edition of the largest quality-promoting contest 2010 i Certyfikacji S.A. (Polish in Poland, and received the Quality of the Year 2010 award in the Services Centre for Testing and category. The main selection criterion was the company’s approach to quality Certification) and the management, which included the quality systems in place at the company, editorial team of Biznes high standards assumed in the company’s mission, as well as the company Raport employees’ involvement in systematic quality improvement. Poszukiwania Naftowe CommunityMayor of Zielona Góra Award presented to the company for its contribution to the life and Diament Friendly Company, development of Zielona Góra. Business Award of the Mayor of Zielona Góra 11. Awards and distinctions 185/ 207 Company name Awards and Awarding organisation Reasons for the award/criteria/grounds distinctions received ZRG Krosno First place in the State Labour Inspection For meeting the contest criteria set by the State Labour Inspection Authority. regional contest: Authority, Regional Labour Employer – Safe Inspectorate in Rzeszów Workplace Provider, in the category of Large Companies (in excess of 251 employees) ZRG Krosno Distinction in the State Labour Inspection as above nationwide contest: Authority, Main Labour Employer – Safe Inspectorate Workplace Provider BUG GAZOBUDOWA Golden honorary Chairman of the Katowice Celebrations of the company’s 60th anniversary. Appreciation of the company’s medal “For the Provincial Assembly contribution to the development of the region. Merits for the Province of Katowice BSiPG GAZOPROJEKT Inwestor w Kapitał Management Observatory Joint initiative of the Institute of Labour and Social Affairs and the Management Luda Investor in Foundation Observatory Foundation. Investor in Human Capital is a nationwide certification Human Capital scheme intended for companies which actively support their employees’ development and proper operation of the human resources management system. Participation in the scheme enables an analysis and comparison of the company’s results against market standards of broadly understood HR policy. Distinctions are awarded to the companies whose care for employees’ development exceeds the standards. The award process was supervised by the Board of the Scheme, composed of representatives of academic communities, research companies, training and consulting companies, as well as independent experts dealing with HR management issues in practice. 11. Awards and distinctions 186/ 207 Company name Awards and Awarding organisation Reasons for the award/criteria/grounds distinctions received BSiPG GAZOPROJEKT Best Designing The Chamber of The evaluation criteria included a wide range of aspects, such as the company’s Company in Poland Construction Designing achievements and reputation (credentials, recommendations, and distinctions), in 1990–2010 its organisation and management systems, HR policy achievements, active participation in professional and commercial organisations, range and quality of insurance used, and financial results. Based on those criteria, the Board of the contest selected companies to be awarded the title of the Best Designing Company in Poland in 1990–2010. BSiPG GAZOPROJEKT Best Design The Chamber of Award granted to Adam Matkowski, CEO’s Proxy – Adviser to the Management Manager of Construction Designing Board 1990–2010 BSiPG GAZOPROJEKT 2010 Best The Chamber of Title awarded to two designs prepared by GAZOPROJEKT: Engineering Design Construction Designing 1) Upgrade of the GT10B+50P4 Compressor at the Hołowczyce Gas Compressor Station 2) Education, Tourism and Sports Centre, along with a Youth Hostel in Krośnice The criteria were innovativeness, originality and optimised design solutions. BSiPG GAZOPROJEKT Lower Silesia The “Krzyżowa” Foundation The purpose of the programme is to award those companies from Lower Silesia Business Certificate for Mutual Understanding which meet ethics and fair competition requirements and boast sound financial in Europe and the Board of performance and stable employment. The Board of the Programme, led by the Province of Wrocław the Speaker of the Wrocław Provincial Assembly and acting under the auspices of the Governor of the Province of Wrocław, pays particular attention to the companies’ financial position, steady improvement of work efficiency, and innovation investments. According to the Programme organisers, the company awarded the certificate must contribute significantly to the development of the region and the labour market, and stand out in terms of quality, innovation and modern approach to business. 11. Awards and distinctions 187/ 207 Company name Awards and Awarding organisation Reasons for the award/criteria/grounds distinctions received BSiPG GAZOPROJEKT White List – Silver Wrocław Chamber of The programme promotes reliable companies. The certificate is granted upon Certificate Commerce the completion of a review process, which is to demonstrate the company’s excellent conduct in its relations with customers, business partners and other institutions it deals with in its operations. The review results are available for inspection and the company is listed at www.bialalista.pl BSiPG GAZOPROJEKT 2010 Business The Puls Biznesu daily The listing of the most robust and reliable small and medium-sized enterprises Gazelle is prepared under the patronage of the Puls Biznesu daily and the honorary patronage of the Ministry of Economy. Material advantages of the ranking are its transparency and clear rules, based directly on the companies’ financial results. In the nationwide listing, GAZOPROJEKT was ranked 256th (3,500 titles were awarded in total). An equally good position was secured by the company in the provincial ranking, in which it came 20th out of 285 distinguished companies. BN Naftomontaż Reliable Company Business and Consumer From its launch in 2002, the programme has been supporting and promoting Programme “Reliable reliable companies by making their evaluation and creating a database of Company” trustworthy enterprises. The programme refers to HR management and has been developed to identify, award and promote businesses characterised by exemplary HR policies, reflected in the high quality of products and services in the demanding Polish market. ZUN Naftomet 2009 Business The Puls Biznesu daily Naftomet was included among the most dynamically developing companies Gazelle awarded with the title. The company’s position in the ranking was determined based on the percentage growth of its turnover achieved over three consecutive years. 188/ 207 12. Coordinators Sustainable Development and Corporate Social Centralne Laboratorium Pomiarowo-Badawcze (Central Measuring and Research Laboratory), PGNiG Branch Responsibility Coordinators Dariusz Pastuszka dariusz.pastuszka@pgnig.pl Tel. +48 609 742 736 at the PGNiG Group PGNiG, Odolanów Branch Katarzyna Chołast katarzyna.cholast@pgnig.pl Tel. +48 62 736 44 41 ext. 260 PGNiG Head Office, Management Board’s Proxy for Sustainable Development and Corporate Social Responsibility Strategy Operator Systemu Magazynowania (Storage System Marzena Strzelczak Operator), PGNiG Branch marzena.strzelczak@pgnig.pl Radosław Galbarczyk Tel. +48 22 691 82 01 radoslaw.galbarczyk@pgnig.pl Tel. +48 22 691 80 49 PGNiG Head Office, Sustainable Development and Corporate Social Responsibility Strategy Coordinator PGNiG, Sanok Branch Katarzyna Mróz Ewa Król katarzyna.mroz@pgnig.pl Ewa.Krol@sanok.pgnig.pl Tel. +48 22 691 82 11 Tel. +48 13 465 23 90 PGNiG Head Office, Lead Specialist for Ecological Communication PGNiG, Zielona Góra Branch Jakub Siewko Ewa Białowąs jakub.siewko@pgnig.pl ewa.bialowas@zgora.pgnig.pl Tel. +48 22 691 84 06 Tel. +48 68 329 16 28 12. Coordinators Sustainable Development and Corporate Social 189/ 207 Responsibility Coordinators at the PGNiG Group PGNiG Trading Divisions Lower Silesian Gas Trading Division Wałbrzych Gas Sales Unit Wojciech Tymiak wojciech.tymiak@pgnig.pl Tel. +48 74 842 71 20 Lower Silesian Gas Trading Division Upper Silesian Gas Trading Division Wrocław Gas Sales Unit Zabrze Gas Sales Unit Anna Pomarańska Jolanta Matusek anna.pomaranska@pgnig.pl jolanta.matusek@pgnig.pl Tel. +48 71 364 95 53 Tel. +48 32 373 53 31 Lower Silesian Gas Trading Division Carpathian Gas Trading Division Zgorzelec Gas Sales Unit Jarosław Gas Sales Unit Małgorzata Bartos Marcin Grząba malgorzata.bartos@pgnig.pl marcin.grzaba@pgnig.pl Tel. +48 75 772 23 35 Tel. +48 16 624 52 83 Upper Silesian Gas Trading Division Carpathian Gas Trading Division Opole Gas Sales Unit Jasło Gas Sales Unit Monika Kościów Anna Przywara monika.kosciow@pgnig.pl anna.przywara@pgnig.pl Tel. +48 77 443 51 23 Tel. +48 13 443 73 63 Carpathian Gas Trading Division Kielce Gas Sales Unit Piotr Sobieraj piotr.sobieraj@pgnig.pl Tel. +48 41 349 34 20 12. Coordinators Sustainable Development and Corporate Social 190/ 207 Responsibility Coordinators at the PGNiG Group Carpathian Gas Trading Division Kraków Gas Sales Unit Bogusław Kurowski boguslaw.kurowski@pgnig.pl Tel. +48 12 628 12 82 Carpathian Gas Trading Division Carpathian Gas Trading Division Lublin Gas Sales Unit Tarnów Gas Sales Unit Paweł Staniszewski Magdalena Legawiec pawel.staniszewski@pgnig.pl magdalena.legawiec@pgnig.pl Tel. +48 81 445 21 62 Tel. +48 14 632 38 80 Carpathian Gas Trading Division Mazovian Gas Trading Division Rzeszów Gas Sales Unit Białystok Gas Sales Unit Wojciech Janas Krzysztof Smorczewski wojciech.janas@pgnig.pl krzysztof.smorczewski@pgnig.pl Tel. +48 17 875 03 00 Tel. +48 85 664 54 30 Carpathian Gas Trading Division Mazovian Gas Trading Division Sandomierz Gas Sales Unit Łódź Gas Sales Unit Krzysztof Motyła Jacek Miluśki krzysztof.motyla@pgnig.pl jacek.miluski@pgnig.pl Tel. +48 15 833 62 40 Tel. +48 42 675 96 20 Mazovian Gas Trading Division Warszawa Gas Sales Unit Beata Błaziak-Pyzel beata.blaziak@pgnig.pl Tel. +48 22 325 14 53 12. Coordinators Sustainable Development and Corporate Social 191/ 207 Responsibility Coordinators at the PGNiG Group Pomeranian Gas Trading Division Bydgoszcz Gas Sales Unit Sebastian Latanowicz sebastian.latanowicz@pgnig.pl Tel. +48 52 376 13 40 Pomeranian Gas Trading Division Gdańsk Gas Sales Unit Dorota Rajczyk-Gałkowska dorota.rajczyk-galkowska@pgnig.pl Tel. +48 58 323 01 10 Pomeranian Gas Trading Division Greater Poland Gas Trading Division Olsztyn Gas Sales Unit Koszalin Gas Sales Unit Marta Malinowska Ewelina Błachuta marta.malinowska@pgnig.pl ewelina.blachuta@pgnig.pl Tel. +48 89 537 25 73 Tel. +48 94 348 45 40 Greater Poland Gas Trading Division Greater Poland Gas Trading Division Kalisz Gas Sales Unit Poznań Gas Sales Unit Monika Mielcarek Katarzyna Wiznerowicz monika.mielcarek@pgnig.pl katarzyna.wiznerowicz@pgnig.pl Tel. +48 62 769 53 20 Tel. +48 61 885 46 02 Greater Poland Gas Trading Division Szczecin Gas Sales Unit Bogumiła Koman bogumila.koman@pgnig.pl Tel. +48 91 424 73 03 12. Coordinators Sustainable Development and Corporate Social 192/ 207 Responsibility Coordinators at the PGNiG Group Strategic Companies of the PGNiG Group Dolnośląska Spółka Gazownictwa Sp. z o.o. Piotr Wojtasik pwojtasik@gazownia.pl Tel. +48 71 364 95 25 Górnośląska Spółka Gazownictwa Sp. z o.o. Mazowiecka Spółka Gazownictwa Sp. z o.o. Maja Girycka Emilia Tomalska maja.girycka@gsgaz.pl emilia.tomalska@msgaz.pl Tel. +48 601 48 80 22 Tel. +48 22 667 38 08 Karpacka Spółka Gazownictwa Sp. z o.o. Pomorska Spółka Gazownictwa Sp. z o.o. Bożena Malaga-Wrona Katarzyna Wróblewicz Bozena.Malaga-Wrona@ksg.pl katarzyna.wroblewicz@psgaz.pl Tel. +48 14 632 31 45 Tel. +48 58 326 36 70 Wielkopolska Spółka Gazownictwa Jerzy Magas jerzy.magas@wsgaz.pl Tel. +48 61 854 53 65 Tel. +48 601 73 00 43 12. Coordinators Sustainable Development and Corporate Social 193/ 207 Responsibility Coordinators at the PGNiG Group Exploration and Production Geofizyka Kraków Sp. z o.o. Magdalena Pachocka magdalena.pachocka@geofizyka.krakow.pl Tel. +48 12 299 13 67 Geofizyka Toruń Sp. z o.o. PNiG Nafta Piła Iwona Matusiak Patrycja Kujawa iwona.matusiak@geofizyka.pl pkujawa@nafta.net.pl Tel. +48 56 659 33 93 Tel. +48 67 215 13 35 PNiG Jasło Sp. z o.o. Poszukiwania Naftowe „Diament” Sp. z o.o. Przemysław Baciak Norbert Urbański pbaciak@pnig.jaslo.pl nurbanski@pn-diament.com.pl Tel. +48 13 443 63 41 Tel. +48 68 329 54 11 PNiG Kraków Sp. z o.o. PGNiG Norway AS Michał Korczak Marek Hoffmann michal.korczak@ogec.krakow.pl marek.hoffmann@pgnig.no Tel. +48 12 619 76 67 Tel. +47 51 95 07 59 Zakład Robót Górniczych Krosno Sp. z o.o. Jan Sęp jsep@zrg.krosno.pl Tel. +48 13 437 21 10 12. Coordinators Sustainable Development and Corporate Social 194/ 207 Responsibility Coordinators at the PGNiG Group Other companies of the PGNiG Group Gazobudowa Sp. z o.o. Magdalena Mroczka info@gazobudowa.pl Tel. +48 32 275 57 68 BSiPG Gazoprojekt SA Naftomontaż Sp. z o.o. Grażyna Janicka Agnieszka Grochmal gjanicka@gazoprojekt.com.pl a.grochmal@naftomontaz.com.pl Tel. +48 71 785 13 03 Tel. +48 13 437 45 35 Investgas SA ZRUG Pogórska Wola Sp. z o.o. Robert Plesiewicz Marek Chrząszcz robert.plesiewicz@investgas.pl Tel. +48 14 622 54 21 Tel. +48 22 860 05 51 ZUN Naftomet Sp. z o.o. Sławomir Duran slawomir.duran@naftomet.pl Tel. +48 13 436 25 11, ext. 338, 270 195/ 207 13. Glossary of key CSR terms Cause-related marketing – an intermediate form of marketing between commercial and social marketing. It involves supporting a social cause while strengthening the image of the company. The implementation of cause-related marketing very CSR (Corporate Social Responsibility) – a strategy often involves three parties: the company, civil based on an assumption that a company should society organisations and consumers. voluntarily take public interest into consideration in its pursuit to achieve economic objectives. CSR Community action – short-term social initiative promotes observance of ethical principles, emcarried out on a one-off or regular basis to help ployees’ rights, human rights, as well as respect a given group or a person. An example of a onefor social and natural environment in a company’s off community action is the Krewniacy initiative operations and its decision-making process. It is promoting donation of blood for patients in need generally accepted that a company’s policy should of transfusion. provide not only for achievement of economic objectives but also the implementation of corporate Company’s Code of Values/Ethics – a code of valsocial responsibility principles. ues adopted by a company, defining its organisational culture. A common code of values promotes CSR report – a company’s comprehensive report higher awareness of the unwritten principles and on its implementation of sustainable developcompany rules among employees, allowing them ment and corporate social responsibility strategy. to build closer relationship with the company and It focuses on economic, social and environmental other employees. aspects of the company’s operations. 13. Glossary of key CSR terms 196/ 207 Dialogue with stakeholders in accordance with AccountAbility AA1000 standards – international AccountAbility AA1000 standards are a very useful tool in developing and managing stakeholder relations. The standards help companies to build their relations with stakeholders on trust and open dialogue, thus contributing to the creation of social capital. They focus on stakeholders and provide Declaration on Sustainable Development in the support in the area of stakeholder management. Employee opinion survey (also called employee Energy Sector – the declaration signed for the The series comprises the following standards:: satisfaction survey) – a tool for investigating the first time on June 17th 2009, containing statements •• AccountAbility Principles level of job satisfaction among the employees of by the signatories that they understand and are Standard – AA1000APS, a given company. It provides information on the willing to implement in their policies the princi•• AccountAbility Assurance most satisfying aspects of particular jobs, at the ples of sustainable development. The declaration Standard – AA1000AS, same time revealing the potential problems and was signed by the largest companies in the Pol•• AccountAbility Stakeholder Engagement Standareas of conflict that may negatively affect the atish energy sector: EDF Polska, Enea, GAZ-SYSTEM, ard – AA1000SES. titude and commitment of the company’s employGDF SUEZ Energia Polska, Tauron, Vattenfall Poland ees. The outcomes of the survey should enable and PGNiG, the initiator of the project. On June the company to better adjust its offer to the needs 17th 2010, the declaration was signed by three and expectations of its employees. more companies – Fortum Power and Heat Polska, Grupa Lotos and Polskie Sieci Elektroenergetyczne Global Compact – an initiative launched by UN Operator. Later on, the initiative was also joined Secretary General Kofi Annan aimed at introducing by Dalkia Polska and PKN Orlen. During the last a new framework for businesses by supporting, conference held on June 14th 2011, the Declaraamong other things, respect of human rights, aption was signed by Dolnośląska Spółka Gazownplication of labour standards and business activiictwa, Górnośląska Spółka Gazownictwa, Karpacka ties conducted in harmony with the environment. Spółka Gazownictwa, Mazowiecka Spółka GazownThe Global Compact is supported by non-governictwa, Pomorska Spółka Gazownictwa, Wielkopolmental organisations and more than 1,000 comska Spółka Gazownictwa, PKP Energetyka and panies from different parts of the world, including Energa S.A. Pomorska Spółka Gazownictwa and PGNiG. 13. Glossary of key CSR terms 197/ 207 Grasz o staż initiative – an internship competition with the longest tradition in Poland (launched in 1996) organised by the Gazeta Wyborcza daily and PricewaterhouseCoopers. Each year, the winners are awarded paid internships and other prizes (an Philanthropy – charitable activities which are a Social campaign – activities aimed at changing or opportunity to take up post-graduate studies or demonstration of care for common good, carried preventing a certain attitude or behaviour of a givtraining programmes, books) funded by the comout by persons, organisations or companies for en group of people. Social campaigns are carried panies and non-governmental organisations cooppeople in need. Such activities mainly involve proout through means of mass communication (tradierating with the organisers. viding financial or material support and in modern tional media, unconventional methods) and supsocieties they are chiefly carried out through founported by numerous entities, including companies, HSE (Health, Safety, Environment) – rules of condations and associations. civil society organisations and public authorities, duct related to health and safety at work and whose assistance for the initiators of the campaign environmental protection defined by international Responsible Business Forum (FOB) – a non-governmay have different forms, be it financial, material regulations. mental organisation whose mission is to promote or in the form of services. A company’s involvethe principles of responsible business as a standment in a social campaign strengthens its image Local community – a group of people living in a ard applicable in Poland, aimed at increasing the of an entity with active interest in its environment specified area, bound by social relationships, comcompetitiveness of companies, enhancing social and is an opportunity to build stronger relationmon tradition and culture. A local community can satisfaction and improving the condition of natuship between the employees as well as between be formed by the inhabitants of a locality, comral environment. FOB gathers a number of Polish the company and particular groups. mune, housing estate, city district or city. companies, including PGNiG. Social dialogue – exchange of information beOrganisational structure – a relationship system tween the parties concerned, most frequently within a company, also applicable to its subordirelated to common problems and social affairs. nate organisations and associations. The purpose The parties participating in a social dialogue may of organisational structure is to define a clear diviinclude both public and private entities, entrepresion of duties and hierarchy of powers. A strong neurs and non-governmental organisations. The organisational structure facilitates efficient comsuccess of such dialogue is chiefly determined by pany management. cooperation and reliability of information. 13. Glossary of key CSR terms 198/ 207 Social programme – planned activities aimed at providing a solution to or preventing a specific social problem. It may be implemented independently or as a joint effort by public institutions, businesses and civil society organisations. Sponsorship – mutual agreement between two parties, a sponsor and a sponsoree, whereunder the sponsor provides the sponsoree with financial or material resources or services in exchange for its promotion. Sponsorship involves planned and Stakeholder – any entity with an interest in a comValue chain – clearly defined activities performed intended activities aimed at creating a positive impany’s operations. These may include third parties, by specific companies which form a common age of a company. such as persons, communities, institutions, organivalue system. A value chain clearly demonstrates sations or public authorities, and related entities, mutual dependence between a number of comSRI (Socially Responsible Investing) – approach to such as company employees or shareholders. panies as well as the process of adding value to a company’s operations which treats company’s product. benefit and social well-being on equal terms. Sustainable development – strategy of social and Socially responsible investors favour those compaeconomic development where political, economic Voluntary work – involvement of company emnies which comply with or promote the principles and social activities are carried out with a view not ployees in voluntary work for the benefit of civil of sustainable development, environmental proto have an adverse impact on the environment. society organisations. Employees acting as voluntection, human rights protection and consumer The aim of sustainable development is to ensure tary workers carry out various types of activities protection. such utilisation of natural resources which would for the people in need, using their expertise as not compromise the ability of future generations to well as improving their skills in other areas. Debenefit from them. The concept of sustainable depending on the adopted policy, the company supvelopment is included in the Environmental Protecports voluntary work of its employees by allowing tion Law – Dz.U. of 2001, No. 62, item 627, Art. 3.50. them to conduct such work during working hours, or by providing material, logistics or financial assistance. 13. Glossary of key CSR terms 199/ 207 13.1. Glossary of industry-specific terms Biogas plant – a plant which can process (through fermentation) such substrates as biofuel feedstock, livestock waste, distillery waste, or methane from dumping sites, into biogas. The produced fuel is consumed at small cogeneration units (0.5-2 MW). CCS (Carbon Capture and Storage) – a process of capturing carbon dioxide from flue gasses to reduce its emissions to the atmosphere, which has a negative impact on the environment. Due Distribution – transport of gaseous fuels to custo limited capacity to utilise captured carbon ditomers via distribution networks. oxide, an important issue related to the process is CO2 storage by its compression and deposition in Distribution network – a gas network of low, meworked out caverns which used to hold hydrocardium and high pressure, other than a mine pipebon deposits. line or a direct pipeline. The responsibility for network traffic rests with gas distribution companies CNG (Compressed Natural Gas) – fuel, compressed Exploration and Production or E&P – one of natural gas at a pressure of 20–25 MPa, used as Environmental management systems – systems PGNiG’s operating segments. The companies opervehicle fuel for spark ignition and compression defined in the ISO 14001 standard, based on the ating in this segment are engaged in exploration, ignition engines. principles of comprehensive quality management. geophysical and geological work, as well as proThe main assumption of environmental manageduction of natural gas and crude oil. Direct gas pipeline – the gas pipeline used for ment is to reduce the environmental impact of hutransmission of gaseous fuel directly to the cusman activities. This can be achieved by application Gas distribution company – an energy company tomer’s installation, omitting the gas system. of uniform management principles with regard to involved in the distribution of gaseous fuels, reaccess to environmental resources, elimination of sponsible for network traffic in the gas distribution negative environmental impact of business activisystem, ongoing and long-term security of the ties and rational consumption of natural resources. system’s operation, as well as operation, maintenance, repair and necessary extension of the distribution network, including interconnections with other gas systems in the relevant geographical area. 13. Glossary of key CSR terms 200/ 207 LNG (Liquefied Natural Gas) – natural gas in a liquid state with the temperature of -163°C. During the liquefaction process, natural gas is cooled down to -163°C, thus reducing its volume by 630 times. Transmission network – a gas network of low, LLDP – local land and development plan. medium and high pressure, other than a mine pipeline or a direct pipeline. The responsibility for Natural gas – natural mixture of paraffin hydrocarnetwork traffic rests with the transmission system bons, primarily consisting of methane (up to 98% operator. in high-methane gas). In the earth’s crust natural gas is found in the form of deposits. PGNiG Group –the group of companies with PolTransmission System Operator (TSO) – an energy skie Górnictwo Naftowe i Gazownictwo S.A. as the company involved in the transmission of gaseous OGP GAZ-SYSTEM – abbreviated name of Operator parent. fuels, responsible for network traffic in the gas Gazociągów Przesyłowych GAZ-SYSTEM S.A. The transmission system, ongoing and long-term secompany was established on April 16th 2004 unSGT EuRoPol GAZ – abbreviated name of System curity of the system’s operation, as well as operader the name PGNiG Przesył Sp. z o.o. as a whollyGazociągów Tranzytowych EuRoPol GAZ S.A. The tion, maintenance, repair and necessary extension owned subsidiary of PGNiG. On April 28th 2005, company is responsible for natural gas transmisof the transmission network, including intercon100% of the company shares were acquired by the sion along the Polish section of the Yamal transit nections with other gas systems. State Treasury. Currently, OGP GAZ-SYSTEM operpipeline, connecting the Russian Federation with ates as a gas transmission system operator under Western Europe. Underground Gas Storage Facility – the PGNiG a licence issued by the Polish Energy Regulatory Group is the exclusive owner of underground gas Office. Shale gas – unconventional gas contained in shale storage facilities in Poland. There are six highformations. The United States is the largest shale methane gas storage facilities in Poland – five of gas producer in the world. In Poland, too, there them located in worked out natural gas caverns, has been surging interest in shale gas, which – acand the sixth one in salt caverns in Mogilno. cording to estimates – is buried at depths ranging from 500 metres to 4 kilometres, within a sidelong URE (Urząd Regulacji Energetyki) – the Polish belt stretching from central Pomerania to the LuEnergy Regulatory Office. Under the relevant blin region, and within the foreland of the Sudety regulations, the President of URE is responsible Mountains. for approving the tariffs submitted by holders of licences which authorise them to conduct business Transmission – transport of gaseous fuels through involving trade in and storage of gaseous fuels. transmission networks to distribution networks or end customers connected to the transmission network. 201/ 207 14. Questionnaire D e a r R e a d e r, We would like to thank you for reading this third “Responsible energy” report. We hope that it has contributed to your knowledge and understanding of the PGNiG Group’s activities. With the natural environment in mind, we decided A dialogue with stakeholders is one of our priorito print only a part of this CSR Report of the PGNiG ties. We would like our activities to satisfy your Group – the Introduction, which presents selected needs and expectations to the widest possible information about the Company’s activities. This extent, and we would like our future reports to year, full text of the “Responsible energy” CSR better present matters that are of interest to you. report of the PGNiG Group and the list of GRI inThis is way we ask you to fill out the questionnaire dicators will be published exclusively in electronic below. Please save it and return to the following form. You are invited to browse it, and we will apaddress: informacje@odpowiedzialna-energia.pl preciate if you share your opinions and comments with us. The questionnaire may also be downloaded from our websites: www.pgnig.pl and www.odpowiedzialna-energia.pl Thank you. Yours faithfully, Marzena Strzelczak Management Board’s Proxy for Sustainable Development and Corporate Social Responsibility Strategy Communications Office 202/ 207 15. Table of indicators GRI indicators The PGNiG Group’s 2010 CSR report entitled “Responsible energy” was prepared primarily based on the reporting indicators developed by the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). GRI is an independent network of stakeholders, who embarked on the mission of developing and disseminating common guidelines to be followed in reporting on companies’ economic, environmental and social performance all over the world. The use of GRI In this edition of the CSR Report, 66 indicators indicators enables objective comparison of CSR-rehave been discussed, that is 3 more than in the lated activities of different companies. In addition previous year’s CSR Report (level B). The indicators to principles and recommendations, the GRI guiderelating to estimates and calculations, as presentlines include a system of indicators from which ed in this Report, have been prepared and comcompanies may voluntarily select. piled in accordance with the International Financial Reporting Standards endorsed by the EU. This Report also contains indicators and guidelines following from the Global Compact and ISO 26000, which are also incorporated into the Code of Responsible Business signed by PGNiG and drawn up under the Coalition for Responsible Business (for more information on the Coalition, see the “Coalition for Responsible Business” (page 151) section). 15. Table of indicators 203/ 207 Strategy and GRI Indicators ISO Profile Strategy and 1.1 1.2 6.2 Analysis p.4-5 p. 15 arrow Organisational 2.1 2.2 2.3 2.4 2.5 2.6 2.7 2.8 2.9 2.10 Profile cover p. 6-8; p. cover p. 9 p. 12 p. 7-9 p. 6-9 p. p. 17 10-11 10158arrow 173 Report 3.1 3.2 3.3 3.4 3.5 3.6 3.7 3.8 3.9 3.10 3.11 3.12 3.13 7.5.3 Parameters (3.13 of GRI) p. 31 p. 31 p. 31 p. 31 p. 31 p. 31 p. 31 p. 31 p. 31 p. 31 p. 31 p. 182 p. 31 Governance, 4.1 4.2 4.3 4.4 4.5 4.6 4.7 4.8 4.9 4.10 4.11 4.12 4.13 4.14 4.15 4.16 4.17 6.2 Commitment and Engagement p. p. p. p. p. p. p. p. p. p. p. p. p. p. p. p. p. 13-15 13-15 13-15 13-15 13-15 13-15 13-15 13-15 13-15 13-15 29-30 31 31 2428 2428 2428 2428 Economic Performance Global GRI Indicators IPIECA ISO 26000 Page Indicators Compact Aspect: Economic P9, P10 EC1 SE13 6.8; 9 Performance 6.8.3 EC2 6.5.5 141-144 Aspect: Indirect Economic EC8 6.8; 60 Impacts 6.8.4 15. Table of indicators 204/ 207 Social Performance Global GRI Indicators IPIECA ISO 26000 Page Indicators Compact Aspect: Local Community P5 SO1 6.8; 59-69 6.8.5; 6.8.7 Aspect: Community SO5 26-27 Engagement Environment Performance Global GRI Indicators IPIECA ISO 26000 Page Indicators Compact Aspect: Water P7, P8, P9 EN8 E6 6.5; 80 6.5.4 EN10 6.5; 80 6.5.4 Aspect: Biodiversity EN14 E5 6.5; 84 6.5.6. Aspect: Emissions, EN16 E1 6.5; 78-79 Effluents, and Waste 6.5.5. EN18 6.5; 77 6.5.5. EN21 E9 6.5; 80-81 6.5.3. EN22 E10 6.5; 82-83 6.5.3. Aspect: Compliance EN28 6.5 85 Aspect: Overall EN30 6.5 86-87 15. Table of indicators 205/ 207 Labour Practices & Decent Global GRI Indicators IPIECA ISO 26000 Page Work Performance Compact Indicators Aspect: Employment P1, P2, P3, P4, LA1 6.4; 95-96 P5, P6 6.4.3. LA3 6.4.4. 105-106 Aspect: Labour/ LA5 6.4; 110 Management Relations 6.4.3. Aspect: Occupational LA7 HS3 6.4; 96-97 Health and Safety 6.4.6. LA8 HS2 6.4; 107 6.4.6. Aspect: Training and LA10 SE17 6.4 100 Education 6.4.7. LA11 SE17 6.4; 100 6.4.7. 15. Table of indicators 206/ 207 Human Rights Global GRI Indicators IPIECA ISO 26000 Page Performance Indicators Compact Aspect: Investment and P1, P2 HR3 6.3 101-102 Procurement Practices 6.3.5 Product Responsibility Global GRI Indicators IPIECA ISO 26000 Page Performance Indicators Compact Aspect: Product and Service Labelling PR3 6.7; 46 6.7.4; 6.7.9 PR5 6.7: 38 6.7.6 GRI Indicators Page GRI Sector Supplement EU3 7 Indicators EU8 46 EU14 65 EU23 51-52 EU24 46-48 207/ 207 16. Acknowledgements We would like to thank all who have contributed to the third CSR Report of the PGNiG Group, and in particular: •• the employees of all Head Office departments, Gas Sales Units, Branches, Divisions and Gas Distribution Companies of the PGNiG Group, who contributed to the preparation of the information contained in this Report, as well as sustainable development coordinators for their effort and commitment, •• PwC Polska for its high professionalism as well as huge amounts of kindness and a lot of good advice during the preparation of the this Report. Organisational units of the PGNiG Group at which the following systems have been implemented: ISO 14001 Environmental Management and HSE systems ISO 14001 Environmental Management system PGNiG „Nafta” of Piła Geoﬁzyka Toruń Other entities – no systems implemented Head Office and Branches of PGNiG S.A., including Gas Trading Divisions (GTD) Companies of the PGNiG Group, Geoﬁzyka Kraków PNiG Kraków including Gas Distribution Companies (GDC) ZG in Tarnów Gas Distribution Divisions (GDD) of the Gas Distribution Companies Organisational units of the PGNiG Group at which the Pomorska SG following systems have been ZG in Gdańsk implemented: ISO 14001 Environmental Management and HSE ZG in Olsztyn systems ISO 14001 Environmental Management system ZG in Bydgoszcz Other entities – no systems implemented Investgas PN Diament Centrala PGNiG SA Branch in Zielona Góra Branch in Odolanów ZG Zgorzelec Dolnośląska SG ZG in Lublin ZG Wrocław BSiPG Gazoprojekt ZG in Kielce ZG Wałbrzych Head Office and Branches ZG in Opole ZG in Sandomierz of PGNiG S.A., including Gas Górnośląska SG Trading Divisions (GTD) BUG Gazobudowa ZG in Zabrze Karpacka SG in Zabrze ZG in Rzeszów Companies of the PGNiG Group, ZRUG ZG in Kraków Podgórska Wola ZG in Jarosław including Gas Distribution PNiG Jasło ZRG Krosno Companies (GDC) ZG in Jasło Oddział in Sanok BN Gas Distribution Divisions (GDD) of Naftomontaż the Gas Distribution Companies Organisational units of the PGNiG Group at which the following systems have been Pomorski OOG implemented: ZG in Koszalin ISO 14001 Environmental Management and HSE systems ZG in Szczecin ISO 14001 Environmental Management system ZG Białystok ZG Ciechanów Other entities – no systems implemented ZG in Poznań Wielkopolska SG Mazowiecka SG Wielkopolski OOG CLPB in Warszawa Bud-Gaz Geovita ZG Mazowiecki OOG Mińsk Mazowiecki ZG Warszawa ZG in Kalisz ZG Łódź ZG Radom Dolnośląski OOG Head Office and Branches of PGNiG S.A., including Gas Trading Divisions (GTD) Górnośląski OOG Companies of the PGNiG Group, Karpacki OOG including Gas Distribution ZUN Naftomed Companies (GDC) Gas Distribution Divisions (GDD) of the Gas Distribution Companies Back to page 83 Changes in the PGNiG Group’s Structure •• In January 2010, PGNiG Energia S.A. was registered. •• In January 2010, Geofizyka Kraków Libya JSC w likwidacji (in liquidation) was deleted from the Libyan commercial register. •• In May 2010, Biogazownia Ostrowiec Sp. z o.o. was incorporated. Its entire share capital was acquired for cash by PGNiG Energia S.A. The company was registered in May 2010. •• In November 2010, Operator Systemu Magazynowania Sp. z o.o. was incorporated. All its shares were acquired for cash by PGNiG, which is the company’s sole shareholder. Operator Systemu Magazynowania Sp. z o.o. was registered in December 2010. The company was established to ensure compliance with the requirements of Directive 2009/73/EC with respect to legal separation of the gaseous fuel storage from other types of business conducted by a vertically integrated gas undertaking. •• In December 2010, POGC Trading GmbH was incorporated. The company’s business profile comprises purchase and sale of, as well as trading in, gas, fuels, other forms of energy and their derivatives in physical form, as well as trading in gas-, fueland energy-linked derivative instruments and other financial products, on the European and other markets. Back to page 11 Shareholder structure in 2009 – 2010 Shareholder Number of shares/votes Percentage of share Number of shares/votes Percentage of share attached to the shares as capital/total vote at the attached to the shares as capital/total vote at the at Dec 31 2009 GM as at Dec 31 2009 at Dec 31 2010 GM as at Dec 31 2010 State Treasury 4 303 686 368 72,94% 4 273 650 532 72,44% Other 1 596 313 632 27,06% 1 626 349 468 27,56% Total 5 900 000 000 100,00% 5 900 000 000 100,00% Shareholders As at December 31st 2010, the share capital of on April 6th 2009. On October 1st 2010, the eligible PGNiG amounted to PLN 5,900,000,000, and was employees’ rights to acquire PGNiG shares free of divided into 5,900,000,000 shares with a par value charge expired. Heirs of the eligible employees of PLN 1 per share. Shares of all series, that is Sewho were entitled to acquire PGNiG shares free ries A, Series A1 and Series B, are ordinary bearer of charge may exercise their rights also after that shares, and each share carries the right to one vote date, provided that on or before October 1st 2010 each at the General Shareholders Meeting. ­PGNiG’s they applied to the court to declare that they had Articles of Association do not provide for any limiacquired the deseased employees’ estate by way tations as to the exercise of the voting rights atof inheritance. tached to the shares. As at December 31st 2010, 59,134 eligible employThe Polish State Treasury remains PGNiG’s majorees acquired 726,349,467 shares, which confer the ity shareholder. On June 26th 2008, the Minister of right to 12.31% of the total vote. Consequently, the the State Treasury disposed of one PGNiG share on State Treasury’s share fell to 72.43%. The Company general terms, which, pursuant to the Commercialishares acquired free of charge by eligible employsation and Privatisation Act of 1996, gave eligible ees or their heirs were subject to a lock-up until employees the right to acquire, free of charge, July 1st 2010, while the Company shares acquired up to 750,000,000 PGNiG shares. The process of free of charge by members of the Management free-of-charge distribution of the shares started Board are subject to a lock-up until July 1st 2011. Investor Relations As an issuer of securities listed on the Warsaw Stock Exchange, PGNiG is required to disclose complete and reliable information on its operations, as well as any material corporate developments at its Group, in regular reports made available on equal Structure of the free float and institutional terms to both its existing and potential shareholdshareholding, by country, as at July 27th 2010 ers. The Investor Relations function is, however, not limited to obligatory activities, expressly required by law. It also encompasses a number of Other 9.1% other activities which the Company undertakes to meet the high expectations of all market particiNorway 1.5% pants. These include: participation in road shows United Arab Emirates 1.7% and foreign investor conferences (in 2010, we Austria 1.9% visited Austria, the Czech Republic, France, the US, Singapore 2.4% Sweden, Hungary and Great Britain), meetings France 3.6% with managers of equity portfolios and ongoing contact with market analysts. In addition, the Hungary 3.7% Company’s website features a dedicated Investor Poland 56.2% Relations section, where every capital market parLuxembourg 4.7% ticipant may find the most important updates on the Company, consensus forecasts of the Group’s performance and the most recent target price United Kingdom 6.7% recommendations, sourced from research reports covering PGNiG S.A. The Investor Relations Department offers all those interested in receiving The U.S. 8.6% news on the PGNiG Group a dedicated newsletter distributed via electronic channels; to subscribe for the newsletter, one only needs to send an email to ri@pgnig.pl, requesting to be added to the distribution list. Back to page 12 Risk factors Purchase price of imported gas Prices of imported gas are determined in USD or EUR and are based on the prices of petroleum products. Changes in foreign exchange rates and prices of petroleum products materially affect acquisition cost of imported gas. Preparing an accurate forecast of changes of natural gas prices inTariff calculation volves a high risk of error. Despite the legal possibility of adjusting prices approved for a tariff term, PGNiG’s ability to cover the costs of its core opthe Company may not be able to pass an increase erations depends on the prices approved by the in the price of imported gas on to customers, or President of the Energy Regulatory Office. When the relevant adjustment of selling prices may be approving tariffs for a given period, the President considerably deferred in relation to the change in of the Energy Regulatory Office takes into considimport prices. eration external factors which are beyond ­PGNiG’s control. In an attempt to protect vulnerable cusLicences for exploration tomers, while verifying the operating costs, the and appraisal of deposits President of the Energy Regulatory Office may consider certain costs as unjustified. Moreover, In recent years, the increase in prices of fuels the President of the Energy Regulatory Office on global markets has led to growing interest in does not always accept the assumptions adopted exploration activities. There is a risk of competition by PGNiG with respect to the main drivers of cost from other companies active on the Polish market, Competition in the area of exploration changes and profit level, allowing for business which also seek licences for exploration for and risk. Consequently, the Energy Regulatory Office appraisal of deposits or implement a strategy of Both on the Polish market and abroad there is a frequently refuses to accept the tariff prices and acquiring access to own hydrocarbon reserves. At risk of competition from other companies with charge rates applied for by PGNiG. Lower tariff present, competition on the domestic market is respect to acquisition of licences for exploration prices and charges might adversely affect PGNiG’s limited. for and appraisal of deposits, that is implemenprofitability. tation of a strategy of securing access to own hydrocarbon reserves. Certain competitors of the PGNiG Group, especially those active globally, enjoy strong market positions and have financial resources larger than those available to the Group. Thus it is probable that such companies may submit their bids in tender procedures and may be able to acquire promising licences. Competition in the area of trade in natural gas At present, PGNiG is the largest supplier of natural gas in Poland, with a share in the gas market estimated at approximately 98%. The remaining 2% is represented by suppliers from outside the PGNiG Group which usually purchase gas from PGNiG. These include local gas distributors that own transmission infrastructure and offer – in adCompetition in the area of distribution Delayed exploration work dition to traditional network gas supply – innovative solutions of the natural gas supply involving The liberalisation of the gas market boosts the Under the currently binding Polish regulations, the use of LNG. An intensified commercial activity activity of gas suppliers competing with the PGNiG obtaining a licence for exploration for and apof the competitors designed to attract current and Group Gas Distribution Companies. Over the last praisal of crude oil and natural gas deposits lasts potential customers of PGNiG may pose a tangible few years, those suppliers showed regular and from one to one and a half year. As regards forthreat of customer churn. steady activity, gradually developing their gas neteign operations, it may take even two years from works and acquiring new customers, both among the time when a licence tender is awarded until households and businesses. Another issue which the relevant contract is ratified. Moreover, prior affects the Gas Distribution Companies’ competito the commencement of field work, a company tive position is the tariff policy of the Energy Reguis obliged to make numerous arrangements, inlatory Office, as it prevents the Gas Distribution cluding obtaining formal and legal permits and Companies from operating a flexible pricing policy approvals for entering the area, meeting envifor their key customers. With the lack of flexible ronmental protection-related requirements and pricing, customers may find the offering of the in some cases requirements related to protection competition attractive. of archaeological sites, and abiding by the regulations governing tenders to select a contractor. Under the currently binding regulations, another several months pass before an agreement with the contractor is signed. In addition, companies must frequently wait for a very long time before their imported equipment receives customs clearance. These factors create the risk of delayed exploration work. Cost of exploration work Political and economic situation Exploration projects are capital consuming, given Some countries where the PGNiG Group carries the prices of energy carriers and materials. The out exploratory activity face the risk of armed cost of exploration work is particularly sensitive to conflicts or social and political destabilisation, movements in steel prices, which affect the prices which may result in a limitation, suspension or of casing pipes and lifting casing used in drilling. discontinuation of PGNiG’s exploration and proAn increase in the prices of energy and materiduction operations. In certain countries, the operaals translates into an increase in the cost of extions of exploration companies may be hindered ploration work. Moreover, profitability of foreign by lack of adequate infrastructure, which may be exploratory projects will to a significant extent an obstacle in transporting equipment, staff and depend on the movements in prices of petroleum materials to the sites. There may also arise probproducts and fluctuations of exchange rates. lems in providing supplies and ensuring appropriate health care. These risks may lead to limitation or suspension of PGNiG’s exploratory activity. Back to page 15
