2011 Chairman's Address Since Penshibao Corporation was established in1985, it has been following the corporate purpose, “To Serve Agriculture and To Benefit Mankind” and the management idea, “Based on Agriculture, Low-Carbon, Environmentally-Friendly” , carrying forward the corporate spirit, “ Harmonization, Credit, Diligence and Innovation”, sticking to working hard and making technical innovations; it has been devoting itself to developing, researching, producing and popularizing environmentallyfriendly foliar fertilizer with the brand “ Penshibao ” and now it is one of brand enterprises in domestic foliar fertilizer industry. When facing the severe situations such as abnormal climatic environment and agricultural cost increase, Penshibao Corporation sticks to its principal, “Scientifically Fertilize, Efficiently Fertilize and Environmentally-friendly Fertilize”, persists in performing the social responsibility in its whole course of production and management, did a good job in the all-round research and development for Chairman Xia n glin WANC the high efficiency, energy saving and environmentally-friendly aspect of Penshibao product and for the improvement of crops resistances and agricultural products quality. It is encouraging that Winner of national May 1 labor medal Penshibao products not only have remarkable and stable effects on the production increase of every crop, but also can promote the crops which are suffered from drought, water-logging, insect damage, The eighth, ninth and tenth sessions of CPPCC National Committee members disease, and wind damage to recover rapidly and improve product quality to a certain degree after the Standing Committee of All-China Federation of Industry and Commerce successive four years' tests and demonstration by The National Agro-Tech Extension and Service Advanced personal for National Unity Center (NATESC) and the Agro-tech Extension and Service Authorities of Provinces and Autonomous Regions of China. National Top Ten Outstanding Private Entrepreneur Vice president , Chamber of Commerce of Guangxi Zhuang Autonomous Region Penshibao team wishes to realize a dream to make every country and area able to use energyFellow, World Academy of Productivity Science (WAPS) saving, low-carbon, and high-efficiency Penshibao products, jointly cooperate hand in hand Founder of Penshibao Xianlin Development Foundation to provide more green foods for mankind, create good ecological environment, and promote the sustainable development of economy and society. Winner of Award for outstanding contributions of China Guangcai Programme Top 10 Low-carbon Characters in 2010 Entrepreneurship China The Most Influential Model Worker in Guangxi since the Founding of New China Since Penshibao Corporation joined the United Nations Global Compact, Ⅰ.Current Status it has been reporting its performing conditions of social responsibility (1) Corporate Culture 5 truthfully in accordance with the relevant provisions and reference to the requirements of A Guide to Action of Corporate Social Responsibility. The (2) Company Profile 7 issuing time of last CSR report is June 2011. This period's report, (3) Organizational Structure 9 Corporate Social Responsibility Report of Year 2011, has made a review and report on this corporation's performing conditions of social (4) Operating Status 10 responsibility of year 2011, following the corporate purpose, “ To Serve (5) Company Events 17 Agriculture and To Benefit Mankind”, and the management idea, “Based on Agriculture, Low-Carbon and Environmentally-Friendly”. Ⅱ.Social Responsibility Fulfillment (1) Respect for human rights 19 (2) Workers protection 21 (3) Environmental protection 22 (4) Operating with honesty 23 (5) Users foremost 24 (6) Forge ahead in harmony 25 Edition Ⅰ(2007) EditionⅡ(2008) Ⅲ. Comments from Interested Parties (1) Networks 27 (2) Newspaper & Magazines 28 EditionⅢ(2009-2010) Edition Ⅳ(2011) 3 4 1.1. Corporate Culture 1.1.1. Corporate Purpose Considering agriculture is the basic sector for mankind's living and global sustainable development, Penshibao Corporation always follows its corporate purpose, To Serve Agriculture and To Benefit Mankind , closely pays attention to the agricultural development, rural construction and peasants' enriching problems, insists on its principal, “ Improving Agricultural Productivity, Fertilizer Using Ratio and Land Using Rate”, actively promotes and leads Chinese and even global agriculture to develop on the resource-saving and environmentally-friendly way, makes unremitting efforts and outstanding contributions to the construction of harmonious society and the achievements of millennium's development goal of getting rid of poverty proposed by the United Nations. 1.1.2. Corporate Idea Saving land and energy and strengthening environment protection have become the problem attached importance attentions by the entire world. Penshibao Corporation always adheres to the development idea, Based on Agriculture, Low-Carbon and Environmentally-Friendly , continuously increases the technical investment, devotes itself to developing and producing new products, provides high-efficiency, environmentallyfriendly, low-carbon and economical Penshibao water-soluble fertilizers for agriculture and creates huge social and economic benefits. In the aspect of enterprise management, the Penshibao Corporation actively proposes the good common practice that veryone cares for energy and saves energy everywhere . A good result has been achieved in energy saving and emission reduction. 1.1.3. Corporate Spirit Penshibao Corporation adheres to its behavioral standard all along, Become a Good Person First and Then Do a Great Job , vigorously carries forward its corporate spirit, Harmonization, Credit, Diligence and Innovation , and promotes the sustainable and stable development of corporation. It persists in participating in public welfare undertakings such as helping the poor and those with extreme difficulties, donating to help poor students and earthquake relief work, which have made positive contributions to the construction of harmonious society. It adheres to credit first, service foremost and to win users' trust and praise by conscience brand. It insists on carrying out the professional ethics education and attaching importance to train staff's following spirits: Be Positive and Make Progress, Be Diligent and Fight, Help Each Other in the Same Condition, and Unite and Cooperate .It also perseveres in the technology train for its staffs and improves the entire quality of team and enhances the corporation's innovative capability continuously. 5 6 1.2. Corporate Profile Guangxi Beihai Penshibao Co., Ltd., established in 1985, is the earlier, larger, and higher brand influence foliar fertilizer enterprise integrated with R&D, production, sale and service. At present it covers 60,000 square meters of the R&D and production base with 34 automatic production lines which can produce the liquid fertilizer with different kind of specifications at the same time. It has already passed ISO9001 and ISO14001 certification. Its trademark, “ Penshibao” , is granted the “China Well-known Trademark” in the foliar fertilizer industry, and registered in over 60 countries. Penshibao products are not only sold in domestic every province and autonomous region but also exported to 45 countries and areas such as Japan and America. For many years, Penshibao Corporation has been engaged in the research, production and popularization of environmentally-friendly foliar fertilizers. The core idea in the application popularization, “To S c i e n t i f i c a l l y F e r t i l i z e , To E f f i c i e n t l y F e r t i l i z e a n d To Environmentally-friendly Fertilize” , has been accepted by users. Penshibao product was reputed as “ China Fertilizer King” by the domestic users and the “ Oriental Magic water” by the Indian customers. Penshibao Corporation and its products have been awarded more than 200 domestic and foreign prizes such as “ International Special Prize for Science and Peace” , “ The Gold Prize of the 21 st Geneva International Fair” and “ he Gold Prize of the 72 nd International Agricultural Fair in French Avignon” .Since the corporation voluntarily joined the United Nations Global Compact in 2007, it has been following the compact spirits of protecting environment and respecting human rights and sticking to the basic norm that an enterprise's development shall be harmonious with its environment and society, continuously carrying out the further publicity and popularization of new type fertilizer technology, and more performing its own CSR. In September 2011 Penshibao corporation was invited to attend the UN Private Sector Forum 2011 “Sustainable Energy for All”,and discuss actively,which was held in New York. With a view to promoting corporate reform and innovation and establishing standard modern enterprise management system, Guangxi Penshibao Co., Ltd. was founded in Dec. 2011. Through the reform of share holding system, the corporation will realize the effective promotion of corporate management of scientization and standardization and institutionalization, the improvement of corporate entire qualities, the reinforcement of corporate core competitiveness, the reduction of corporate operating risks, and the promotion of corporate sustainable development. 7 8 1.3. Organizational 1.3.1. Adjustment of Management Organization After the establishment of Guangxi Penshibao Co., Ltd., the quantity of the 1.4. State of Business 1.4.1. Product Feature Structure corporation's management departments was adjusted from 7 to 10, which becomes 1.4.1.1. Penshibao Product Penshibao organic water-soluble more reasonable and the higher efficiency. The following is the organization chart. fertilizer is a multi-function Managing Director nutritional liquid fertilizer that features in high-efficiency, lowcarbon, environmentally-friendly, non-toxic, non-residual, nonhormone and non-pollution. It was Marketing viceFinancial viceAdministrative viceProduction vicestrictly produced according to general manager general manager general manager general manager ISO9001 and ISO14001 systems with the unique high-concentration chelating technology. It abundantly contains many kinds of physiological activators such as fulvic acid, humic International Dept Marketing Dept Auditing Dept Financial Dept H.R. Dept Administration Dept Storage & R&D and QC Dept Production Dept Sales Dept acid, amino acid, and vitamine, and many sorts of nutrient elements such Transportation Dept as nitrogen, phosphorus, potassium, boron, zinc, molybdenum, and manganese. The products are widely 1.3.2. Public Competition for Post applied to more than 50 kinds of The managerial persons of every department are hired through public vote and crops such as grain, cotton, competition with 1 year's term of office, which greatly motivates the working vigor sugarcane, tea, tobacco, fruit tree, of management. This way can effectively guarantee staffs' rights to know, vegetable, flower, and grass with the participate and supervise, give full play to staffs' positivity and creativity, and simple operation and many kinds of way including spraying on leaves, Diagram of Penshibao products and applicable crops promote the smooth ongoing of operating activities and every job. irrigating root, soaking seed, hosing, trickle irrigation, spray irrigation, and daub, which can effectively improve the quality and production of crops. 1.4.1.2. Chelating Amino acid nutrients Agent for Aquatic farming (premix additive) This series of Fish & shrimp Coke products is a pollution-free culturing company's aquaculture and sales shop. chelating agent which can improve water quality, increase oxygen, provide nutrition, and is applied to The management personnels who are employed by open competition. the pollution-free culturing of aquatic products such as fish, shrimp, crab and shellfish in seawater or 1.3.3. Strengthen Corporate System Development freshwater. It can not only increase Corporate Management Manual 2012 Edition which is fair, just, and normative has livability and output but also reduce been formally published and implemented after the repeated advice taking, perfect pollution to offshore area during the modification, presentation to labor authority to check and approve, written course of aquaculture. confirmation by the Law Office, discussed and passed by the congress of workers and staffs. Prawn farmer uses the “Fish & Shrimp Cola” product 9 10 1.4.2. Contributions of Product Average production Increased after Net Income increased the Application of Penshibao Products 1.4.2.1. Contribution to Guaranteeing the Safety of Grain Crop Kg/mu % Kg/mu Affiliated to Ministry of Agriculture of China, the National Agro-tech Extension and Service Center made tests of 15 crops in 18 provinces with the application of Penshibao products and the testing result showed that Penshibao products can Cauliflower 281.2 18.5 505.6 obviously promote the increase of production and income of crops; at the average increasing rate of 11.3% and the average increasing net income of RMB282.9 Yuan Pakchoi 288.3 11.4 143.0 per mu respectively; thereinto the average increasing rates for grain and oil crops are 9.17% and 15.4%; 12.17% and 8.55% average increasing for vegetables and Tomato 536.5 10.1 870.9 fruit trees respectively. Celery 455.8 6.1 683.7 Carrot 133.0 3.1 85.6 Navel Orange 66.0 5.5 138.0 dedicated to providing highly-efficient, economical and environmentally-friendly foliar-fertilizers for agricultural development and grain production increase. Test Result of 15 Crops in 18 Provinces with the Application of Penshibao Products Average production Increased after Net Income increased the Application of Penshibao Products Crop Kg/mu % Kg/mu Rice 33.3 6.7 52.9 Wheat 59.9 13.0 89.9 Potato 188.9 7.8 109.7 Soybean 17.8 12.9 35.6 Rape 13.8 15.1 89.5 Peanut 14.6 8.4 101.5 Cotton 15.6 14.8 350.8 Hot Pepper 75.6 23.8 621.9 China National Agro-tech Extension and Service Center holds a Penshibao products testing summing-up meeting. Citrus 291 11.6 365.6 11 12 1.4.2.2. Contribution to Global Sustainable Development 1.4.2.3.1. Disaster-Preventing Protect Ecological Environment and Human Health Effect Penshibao product can obviously improve disease resistance of crops and reduce Help Rice Resist the Disaster diseases of crops as well as reduce about 20 ml of pesticides dosage per of Low Temperature and Rotten mu(1mu=0.0667 hectares). Tests of 9 crops in 19 sites conducted by the National Seedling Agro-tech Extension and Service Center, affiliated to the Ministry of Agriculture of After the seed soaked with China showed that after the application of Penshibao products, the disease-resistant Penshibao product, the proline effective rates of rice, soybean, cucumber and maize were 84.13%; 75.32%, content of rice will be increased 81.65% and 59.33% respectively; which indicated that Penshibao products can and the rice will have the effectively protect the ecological environment of croplands and human health as resistance to the disaster of low well as promote agricultural sustainable development. temperature and rotten seedling The company is awarded the honor of “advanced unit of soil during sowing time. fertilizer in post-disaster reconstruction” by Jiangxi province. Control Effect Proline Content 100 14 Calculation unit: 1000 meters 80 12 60 10 8 40 6 20 4 2 0 Soybean Rice Corn Peanut Tangerine Cucumber 0 垫 层 底 基 层 基 层 CW+CK CW+J 10+CK 10+J 15+CK 15+J Drought-Resistant Effect of Wheat Reduce the Pollution to After the application of Penshibao product, the wheats all embody obvious Cropland and protect the drought resistance in the semiarid condition(18% water content) or arid Arable Soil condition(10% water content); their root shoot ratio increases 17.6% and 5.3% W h e n u s i n g a c e t o c h l o r, respectively; from the point of the physiology, big root shoot ratio helps to people can add Penshibao relieve drought stress. This fact proves that Penshibao foliar fertilizers can product of 20-30ml per mu, effectively enhance the drought resistance of wheats through adjusting the root which can decrease 57.6-73.8% shoot ratio after the seeds are soaked with Penshibao foliar fertilizers. of the acetochlor residual in soil; therefore Penshibao Increased Root Shoot Ratio after Seeds are Soaked with Penshibao Foliar Fertilizer. product can efficiently reduce the pollution to croplands and Ca l culation unit: percentage 40 protect the arable soil. 35 The agricultural technology extension worker inspects the 30 product testing in the field 20 1.4.2.3. Contribution to Preventing and Reducing Disaster and Improving 15 Resistance of Crop to Climatic Disaster 10 Nowadays global climatic disasters happen frequently, the mechanism research 5 made by China Huazhong Agricultural University shows that Penshibao 0 products have a stronger resistance to climatic disaster. Arid Semiarid Humid 13 14 1.4.2.3.2. Disaster Reduction Effect 1.4.3. Sales Performance Help Rice Resist the Disaster of Low Temperature and Little Sunlight Penshibao Corporation adheres to regarding serving agriculture as its own task. It After the seedlings disaster forms continuously makes channel innovations such as developing the cooperation with due to low temperature and little the Agricultural Association and establishing the international market distribution sunlight, spraying Penshibao network, on the basis of the consolidation of the traditional marketing channels products can raise the and the reinforcement of the cooperation with China Post Logistics Co.Ltd. It chlorophyll content of rice constantly expands market share and its sales performance grows steadily year by leaves, leaf quantity of every year. rice plant and rice height, slow tiller death under the conditions of low temperature and little sunlight, and increase soluble sugar content, The company is ranked as one of thereby improve the the “paddy presenility prevention engineering collaborating units” resistance of rice to the by Jiangxi province for its great low temperature and dedication to Jiangxi province's little sunlight in tillering production increase of grains. period. The company products are popularized and applied The company holds a product technology seminar Help Wheat Resist the Dry and Hot Wind Disaster in Africa After the wheats suffered from the dry and hot wind disasters, if they are processed with Penshibao foliar fertilizers, their effective panicle quantity and hundred-grain 1.4.4. Product R&D weight are significantly higher than the effective panicle quantity and hundredgrain weight of those without being processed with Penshibao foliar fertilizers; the The Corporation optimizes the mechanism of product development, fixes the higheffective panicle quantity of the C2P4 processed with Penshibao foliar fertilizers efficiency, energy-saving, and environmentally-friendly new product R&D are most, which is 1.5 times of the effective panicle quantity of those without being direction, repositions the main functions of the Corporation's R&D center, on processed with Penshibao foliar fertilizers; the hundred-grain weight of the C2P2 which basis, it actively promotes the system of department taking responsible, processed with Penshibao foliar fertilizers reaches 3.28g which is 23.46% more of speeds up new product development time, and shortens the cycle from new product the weight of those without being processed with Penshibao foliar fertilizers; the to commodity for sale. The developed new products are mainly for protecting the average grain quantity per panicle of the C1P4 processed with Penshibao foliar ecological environment and sustainable development, with market demand and fertilizers is the most which is 5.9 grains more of the quantity of those without customer satisfaction as the goal, so as to promote the sustainable development of being processed with Penshibao foliar fertilizers; and the seeds weight of the enterprises. processed C2P2, C1P4 and C2P4 are all bigger than the seeds weight of those without being processed with Penshibao foliar fertilizers; thereinto the seeds weight of the processed C1P4 are the biggest which is 1.55g more than the seeds weight of those without being processed with Penshibao foliar fertilizers. All the aforementioned facts indicate that if the wheats are processed with Penshibao foliar fertilizers after suffering from the dry and hot wind disaster, their effective panicles, ten-thousand-grain weight and production can be increased; therefore Penshibao foliar fertilizer has the good effect on helping wheat resist the dry and hot wind disaster. Processed Effective Panicle Grain Quantity Hundred-Grain Seed Weight Wheat (treatment) Quantity Per Pot Per Panicle Weight(g/pot) （g/pot） CK 5.3 24.0 2.66 4.63 Inside corridor of laboratory Working room of laboratory C1P2 6.3 27.3 2.85 5.63 C2P2 7.0 23.3 3.28 4.72 C1P4 7.0 29.9 3.27 6.18 C2P4 8.0 23.2 3.23 5.85 15 16 1.5. Corporation's Time Event & Remarks Time Event & Remarks Chronicle of January 17 th The Summing-up Meeting of Penshibao Product Test Made in 2010 by National September 20 th Chairman Wang Xianglin and general manager Wang Jicheng were invited Agricultural Technology Extension Service Center was held in Beihai. to attend the United Nations Private Sector Forum “ustainable Energy for Events in 2011 Our trademark, “Nongdule”, was granted as “Guangxi Well-Known All” held in New York. April 18 th Trademark”. The Late-matured High-Yielding Rice for 10000-Mu Demonstration September 28th Area ---“combination of technology and crops to increase farmers' incomes” General-manager Wang Jicheng was invited to attend the Annual Summit of China Penshibao New Products Release Meeting, jointly organized by Penshibao company April 21 st Green Companies---“China Entrepreneur Club” held on April 21 in Qingdao. And Hepu County Agricultural Bureau, was held in Jiupo Village in Dangjiang Town. April 25 st Penshibao company was honored with “Beihai Pioneer of the Workers”. According to the Labor Union's request and the workers' minimum To a d v o c a t e g r e e n l i f e s t y l e , t h e c o m p a n y d e c i d e d t o e s t a b l i s h Oct 5th wage standard specified by Beihai Labor Bureau, the company decided to May 7th raise the post wages of staff, with 20% beyond the standard. the “Sunny Club” to strengthen the staff's physical and mental health and exchanges through various recreational activities. The club's slogan Hu Deping, the former minister of United Front Work Department of CPC is “Unity and Cooperation, Health and Happiness”. October 16th Central Committee and the president of China Glory Society, and Shu Huiguo, the former secretary of Jiangxi Provincial Party Committee and former director May 16 th Our Corporation was listed in “Top 100 Chinese CSR-Performing Enterprises of National Agricultural Committee, visited our Corporation. of Year 2011”. Wang Xianglin, Liu Dongsheng and Li Binquan participated in the reply of October 18th “011 Guangxi Special-Contribution-Prize Projects” the Early-matured High-Yielding Rice for 10000-Mu Demonstration June 1 st Area ---“combination of technology and crops to increase farmers' incomes”Penshibao Our Corporation was appraised as the title of “National Model Staff's Homes” New Products Release Meeting, jointly organized by Penshibao company and Hepu October 31st by All China Federation of Trade Unions. County Agricultural Bureau, was held in Jiupo Village in Dangjiang Town. The Election Conference of Staff and Workers Supervisor of Guangxi Penshibao Our Corporation was listed in “Top 500 Chinese Enterprises With Famous November 7th Co., Ltd. was held. Li Kaijian was elected as the supervisor of first board of supervisors according to Company Act and Securities Law. July 18 th Brands of Year 2010”.Our brand was appraised as ”Top 10 Brands of Chinese Pesticide Industry of Year 2011“. The Founding Conference of Guangxi Penshibao Co., Ltd. was held whose initiator and shareholders are Wang Xinglin, Wang Jidong and Wang Jicheng; 12 resolutions Our general manager Wang Jicheng was elected as the NPC deputy of Haicheng were passed in the conference according to legal procedures; Wang Xianglin, Wang July 26 th District of Beihai City. November 28th Jidong, Wang Jicheng, Liu Xiangbin and Zhou Xuefei were elected as the member of the board of directors in the conference; He Kalin and Xu Shengjuan were elected Our Corporation was honorably awarded the titles of “The Leading Bioas the members of the first board of supervisors; Li Kaijian was elected as the member August 20 th fertilizer Enterprise Supporting Agriculture of Year 2011” and “Most of the first board of supervisors on behalf of staff and workers. Trusted Agricultural Materials Brand by Chinese Peasants in Year 2011”. The Summing-up Meeting of Penshibao Product Test Made in 2011 by National August 26 th Chairman Wang Xianglin was honorably awarded the title of “Guangxi's Agro-tech Extension and Service Center was held. Li Tieshen, vice director of Model Worker With Most Influence Since the Establishment of New China”. National Agro-tech Extension and Service Center, Xin Jingshu, the division chief December 10th of the aforementioned center, Lu Jianwei, a president of Huazhong Agricultural Chairman Wang Xianglin was appraised as the innovative person in University, and the departments related to agricultural technology and land fertilizer August 28 th “The Fourth China Innovative Persons Appraisal of Year 2011”. from some provinces and municipalities and autonomous region attended the meeting. General Manager Wang Jicheng was elected as the NPC deputy of September 10th Beihai City. products release meeting on “combination of The “Penshibao Sunny ·Club”organizes the technology and crops to increase farmers”. staff for a “citywide bicycle trip ”on “nity and Cooperation, Health and Happiness” 17 18 2.1. Respect Human 2.1.1. Show Consideration for and Care for Staffs 2.1.3. Enjoy the Humanized Vacation Rights The Corporation adheres to regarding the staff as its most valuable resources. It The Corporation strictly ensures every employee perfected the trade union, everywhere does can enjoy the statutory practical things well for the staffs, for festivals and holidays example, providing assistance for the according to Labor Law, in employees who have difficulties in living addition to those, it also due to unexpected incidents or illness so as appropriately adds some to alleviate their worries; every summer, the humanized vacations for Corporation insists on presenting cool workers and staffs, such as The company holds the Hakkas food activity themed beverages to the employees; in the last by “Celebrate Chinese Traditional Festival, Promote the Lantern Festival, the The company holds a Zongzi-Making competition on “Love in winter solstice, the Corporation organized a Hakka Culture” Hungry Ghost Festival, and Zongzi and Loving Heart in Dragon Boat Festival” together with the community residents. party to taste Hakka cate with the theme, the Winter Solstice when ?To Celebrate the Traditional Chinese they can have a holiday and Festival and Promote the Hakka Culture , share happiness with their families. and prepare Hakka dumplings representing 2.1.4. Enhance Staff Training reunion for the staffs, which makes staffs The Corporation trains its staff in have a feeling of home. In the Christmas of various forms such as taking Year 2011, the Corporation held a party in lectures, discussion meetings, which staffs presented Christmas gifts to the actual operation, hiring each other to convey blessing, in the outside teachers, and special T h e c o m p a n y h o l d s t h e “G i f t s E x c h a n g e a n d purpose of making everybody spend a B l e s s i n g s S e n d i n g” a c t i v i t y a t C h r i s t m a s assigned outside training, and particularly meaningful Christmas in the gives corresponding incentives joy. or allowances to those who pass the examination. (with photos) 2.1.2. Enrich the Life of Staffs The company strengthens trainings on staff's professional ethnics education and service technology The Corporation attaches importance to strengthening the construction of 2.1.5. Establish Communication Platform corporate culture and has done much in The Corporation established a colleague QQ group this side such as the allocation of special by which all employees can give their opinions and fund, the expansion and transformation of suggestions related to work and life, or discuss and Staffs' Home and reading room and other communicate with each other on topics of interest, venues of staffs, the increase of sports which can enhance the communication among apparatus, audio and video equipments colleagues. and books, which has greatly enriched the The company organizes the staff to hold colorful staff's spiritual and cultural life. In April body-building activities. 2.1.6. Eliminate Discrimination on Sex 2011, the Corporation set up a Penshibao The Corporation has no discrimination on sex. It selects and appoints some women Sunshine Club and organized many as female managers. The proportion of woman in senior management increased series of activities which benefited the from 25% in 2010 to 40% in 2011. (With the chart of male and female ratio) health of the staffs such as the round-thecity travel by bike with the theme of unity, cooperation, healthy and happy , Sex Ratio of Senior Sex Ratio of staffs at the Management grassroots level health walking, sports game, welcomespring theatrical evening party, and the monthly celebration for employees' birthdays, which enhance the corporate cohesion and centripetal force and Woman Woman promote the production and management The company holds a staff sports game to better and faster development. Man Man 19 20 2.2. Guarantee for 2.3. Environment 2.3.1. The Low-Carbon and Environmentally-Friendly, Penshibao Product Reduces the pollution of Chemical Fertilizer Worker Protection Tests of 17 crops in 15 provinces conducted by the National Agro-tech Extension and Service Center, affiliated to Ministry of Agriculture of China, showed that 80% of topdressing with Penshibao products has the production increasing effect on 10 crops; thereinto, the production increasing effect of citrus and hot peppers were better whose production increasing rates were 30.9% and 12.7% respectively; the 更换 production increasing rates of carrot, potato, pakchoi, rice, celery, peanut, rape, cauliflower were from 2.0% to 8.7%. 2.3.2. Save Energy, Reduce Emission and Protect the Global Environment On 24 November 2011, Penshibao Youth League Committee organized Youths to join the Pearl City Cleaning activity to welcome the convening of the 24th World Hakka Conference in Beihai. Penshibao company actively 2.2.1. Penshibao Corporation timely organized youths to join the cleaning activity adjusts the level of salaries according to to enhance their consciousness of caring for the the requirements of national relevant environment and loving for Beihai more. departments and market price changes. 2.2.2. Every employee signed a labor contract with the Corporation, where Table of Penshibao Energy Saving and Emission Reduction of Year 2011 labor duration, labor content, and labor remuneration are fixed. So the Chemical Standard Emission of legitimate rights and interests of both Project Penshibao Trade Turnover of Fertilizer Coal Carbon Dioxide sides are guaranteed by it. Product CER（Carbon） Saved Saved Reduced 2.2.3. The Corporation pays social Application amount 1Ton 35Ton 42Ton 113Ton insurance for staffs according to law, buy the accident insurance for the highAnnual 187.30880-468.27200 Output 2072Ton 72520 87024 234136 (ten thousand) Yuan risk employees to guarantee their personal safety in multiple way. 1. Producing 1 ton of chemical fertilizer consumes 1.2 tons of standard coals, 1 ton of standard coals can produce 2.7 tons of carbon dioxides. 2.2.4. Its trade union signed a Special 2. The dealing price of CER（Carbon）in 2008 was Euro8 to Euro20 per ton, converts to Collective Contract on Labor Safety and RBM about 80-200 Yuan. Per ton Health with it whose special provisions therein which are taken as the system Note:The above data originated from the theoretical calculation only based on the field can protect the physical and mental health of employees. 2.2.5. In the Corporation's actual operation, it advocates the integration of work and rest, reasonably arranges working tasks, reduces overtime, and gives the workers at the production line adequate time to rest in the off season. The company provides African countries with highly-efficient, energy-saving and environmentally-friendly products 21 22 2.3.3. Actively prevent to face the environmental challenge water consumption (cubic meter)\supplementary material 2.5. Customer 2.5.1. Spread Energy-Saving and Emission-Reducing Idea The Corporation spreads its energy-saving and emission-reducing idea to its end Water consumption per ton of Penshibao in the past 5 years Foremost customers by the way of strengthening the training and printing the United Nations Global Compact logo on the product brochures and packages. It always acts as the initiator and participant of the resource-saving and environmentally friendly Society. 1.4 Water consumption (CM) Training table of Year 2011 1.2 1 Area North Central East South Northeast Southwest Northwest 国际 Tota 0.8 China China China China Project 0.6 0.4 Training Times 160 59 68 29 95 68 172 6 651 0.2 0 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Trained Person 4800 1770 2350 1160 3325 2380 5160 15 20945 Demonstrating Site 48 85 45 13 52 41 57 5 341 Consumption of supplementary material per ton of Penshibao in the past 5 years 2.5.2. Provide High-Quality and Reassuring Products and Services While the Corporation promotes low carbon and environmental protection and provides customers with the quality reassuring products, it requests every 12000 consumption （RMB） employee to keep the idea of “ credibility and integrity” ; it uses a variety of service way to achieve synchronization of product sale and training for customers 10000 that wherever products sell, training for customers follows so as to improve their 8000 scientific and technical qualities and make them consciously protect ecological 6000 environment. 4000 Area Fertilized with Penshibao Product and Service Conditions in 2011(estimated) 2000 Fertilized Area Social Benefit Area Unit:10,000 mu X Time Value in RMB10000 Yuan 0 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Northeast 400 12037 North China 350 10125 Central China 260 8128 East China 40 2.4. Do Business with 1121 Penshibao Corporation has always been adhering to credibility and integrity, strictly controlling product quality, producing and selling the conscience products South China 460 12151 Credibility and that satisfy customers. The qualified rate of its products for sale reaches 100%. In Southwest 250 8360 its business, any behaviors such as fake, bad quality goods, contract fraud, bilk and Integrity arrears, false results, false advertisement, pirate and tort, financial fraud, and Northwest 210 7810 cheating out of tax rebates in exportation are strictly banned, which makes it trusted International 60 by its customers. It has made great contributions to the promotion of Chinese 2134 agricultural development, the sustainable increase of grains production, and Total 2030 61866 construction of socialist market economic order. 23 24 2.5.3. Attach Importance to Improving Customer Satisfaction Penshibao Corporation insists on the principle of customer foremost, conscientiously fulfills all commitments including product quality, after-sale service, technical training, and provides the high-quality before-sale and after-sale services and all kinds of technical support for customers. It gets the trust of its customers as it attaches importance to making market research, listening to customers' feedbacks, and improving product quality and services. In 2011 the result of sample survey on the national market indicated that its customers' satisfaction rate was 100%. 2.6. Develop Harmoniously P en s hi ba o Co r po r at i o n a c ti v e ly p a r ti ci pa te s in s oc ia l p ub l ic be n ef it ac tiv i t ie s a nd t he j o i n t co ns tr uc ti on of t he h a rmo ni ou s c o mm un i ti es a nd w a r m h om e s. I n th e Ch i n e s e t ra di ti on al f es ti va l, Dr a go n Bo at F e s ti v al , t h e C o r p o r at io n' s em pl oy ee s an d t he community residents co-hosted the match of making Z on g zi (t r adi t io n a l C h in es e r i c e p u d d i n g ) w i th t he th e me of ? In D ra go n B o at F es t iv a l E ve r y w h e r e Z on gz i Re pr es en ts Fr ie nd ly Fe el i n gs a n d L ov e a r e pas si n g o n ?, i n w hi ch pe o pl e r e ca l le d t he p a t r i o t i c p o e t Qu Y u an , a nd s h ar e d a h a p py h o l id a y ; at t h e sam e t i m e , t h e C o r p o r a ti o n' s t ra d e un i o n s e n t Zo n g z i t o g e r oco mi um, o r p h a n a g e a n d c om mu n it y po l ic e s ta t i o n to p a s s o n th e l o v e. The community police station is the corporation's joint unit to build the advance culture and ideology. The Corporation has established very good relationship with them over the years. Every time when the Corporation held major events, they were invited to participate in and before every festival and holiday, the Corporation's leaders called at their places with gifts. The safety guarantee is available for the corporation's smooth development through strengthening the joint defense of the Corporation and the police station and preventing any serious criminal cases in the surrounding communities. Penshibao Corporation has been actively involved in social public welfare since the establishment of Cooperation. On July 17 th, 2 0 11 , i t s p o n s o r e d a n d supported the Penshibao's Night Red Classic Student Playing Concert in summer holidays held by the cultural Photos of Penshibao company assisting in the and educational departments 13th National Fertilizer Information Exchange of Beihai City & Products Trade Fair The company sponsors the Red Classics·Summer Vacation Students Concert themed by “Night of Penshibao” 25 26 2.1.Networks Since 2009, Liaoning province has been popularized Penshibao products and researched and explored station-enterprise cooperation for jointly extending the new 2.2.Newspaper As China is a country with a population of over 1.3 billion, the food security is a top priority of national economic and social development. How to well serve this fertilizer technologies and new products. With two years' efforts, we have achieved initial results. By the end of 2010, the popularized areas had expanded to 10 cities & Magazine country's agriculture, villages, and peasants is very important. Chairman Wang Xianglin was originally a peasant; therefore he is well aware that the needs of and 37 counties (cities and regions) with 9,160 popularized products totally. In 2011, peasants are cheap, good, and easy-to-use products for the agriculture, villages, and the whole province further expanded the range of popularization and Penshibao peasants. Penshibao products produced by his corporation changed the tradition company's member units reached 55 counties (cities and regions), with an estimate that plants are fertilized only at their roots which has lasted for several thousand that 10,000 Penshibao products were popularized and sold years; they can be fertilized on the leaves of plants, which increases production and ——http://www.lntf.net/, March 29, 2011 income. In addition, in order to make all the necessary agricultural materials for the agriculture, villages, and peasants more convenient and faster delivered to rural areas, he wrote and presented a proposal with the subject that “the postal service As one of the largest foliar fertilizer production bases in China, Penshibao Co., Ltd. shall serve agriculture, villages, and peasants” with his identity of the member of has been committed to the research, production and popularization of the green CPPCC. This proposal was received much attention, and for many years included in environmentally-friendly foliar fertilizer for many years. At present it has formed the Annual First File of the Central Committee of CPC. five series of products composed of foliar fertilizer, ecological aquaculture product, eco-pesticide, feed additive, and high-quality rice seed, totaling more than 60 ——Extracted from From a Peasant to China Fertilizer King written by Zhou Deye products, which are applied to 71 kinds of crops in 45 countries around the world and released in Beihai Daily on October 23 rd, 2011 and Chinese 31 provinces (municipalities and autonomous regions). The production increase data presented by Huazhong Agricultural University in China indicates that Penshibao organic water-soluble fertilizer is a kind of foliar fertilizer researched using 1 ton of Penshibao products can save 35 tons of chemical fertilizers, save 42 and produced by Guangxi Beihai Penshibao Co., Ltd. To know more about the use tons of standard coals, reduce the emission of 113 tons of carbon dioxide, and effect of Penshibao organic water-soluble fertilizer on paddy for providing increase 140,000 kilograms of rice. In 2007 Penshibao voluntarily joined the United scientific basis for local popularization, a field contract experiment on early-rice Nations Global Compact which requires every member to take social 2011 by using Penshibao products was conducted in Dangjiang Town in Hepu responsibility, and participate in the globalization by investment and trade. County. ——Extracted from Guangxi Penshibao Is Willing to be the Vanguard of Environmental Protection and Energy Saving and Emission Reduction written by Feng Shumin and ——Science and Technology of West China, Issue 29, 2011 released in China news Website on October 23 rd, 2011. On 17 January 2011, the National Agro-tech Extension and Service Center held the In the National Fertilizer Information Exchange & Product Trade Fair, Beihai Penshibao products testing summing-up meeting in Beihai. Principals from Penshibao Co., Ltd. was warmly welcomed by the fertilizer dealers from all over the provinces (autonomous regions and municipalities) and relevant experts for the country. Mr. Lee from Xinjiang Uygur Autonomous Region said: “ Penshibao testing task participated in this meeting. The fertilizer effect experiments of products have played a very important role in promoting Xinjiang's agricultural Penshibao products on 49 crops, 19 crops' disease resistance test results and production and peasants' income increase and rural development; this time I came to relevant products' production increase and anti-stress mechanisms research Nanning mainly for visiting Beihai Penshibao Corporation besides attending this progress from 2008 to 2010 were reported at the meeting. The tests and research fair”. results demonstrated that Penshibao products have excellent effect on the ——Extracted from Penshibao Attended the National Fertilizer Information Exchange production increase, quality improvement, anti-stress and disease prevention of & Product Trade Fair that Held in Nanning written by ZhangGanyou and released crops. Penshibao Company will further cooperate with the National Agro-tech in Beihai News Website on November 4 th, 2011. Extension and Service Center in products testing and demonstration to better serve China's agricultural development. Over 20 years ago, with the development idea, “ Low Carbon and Being Environmentally-Friendly”, Wang Xianglin started an undertaking that planned for ——Released in China Pesticide and Chemical Fertilizer Merchants Website on Dec. Penshibao at that time is: dedicated to the development and production of the low3rd, 2011. carbon, environmentally-friendly, high-quality and economical products and eventually provide non-residual, non-hormone and non-toxic products for hundreds of millions of peasants and immense croplands. This development way makes crops have a new fertilizing method, foliage dressing, besides the original root fertilizing, reduces the usage quantity of chemical fertilizers, and also effectively protects environment. ——Released in China Pesticide and Chemical Fertilizer Merchants Website on Dec. 3rd, 2011. 27 28 This report is prepared by the following persons: Compiling Team: Tan Weiwen, Wang Jicheng, Liu Dongsheng, Li Binquan, Jiang Daiwei, Pan Mingjian, Yao Yuanqiong, Liang Fazhong, Xu Shengjuan, Li Kaijian, Hong Guirong, Huang Changsheng. Editor in Charge: Li Yuhua Typesetter and Designer: Lai Meiling Photographer: Li Binquan, Luo Kangyang Proofreader: Chen Haibo Address: No 70 Beibuwan road,Beihai city,Guangxi, China. Zip Code:536007 Tel / Fax:+86-779-2061726 Hotline:4008899989 Website:www.psb.com.cn E-mail:psb1985@yahoo.cn.
