Global Compact – Communication on Progress in Management Board: Sven Hohorst, Axel Börner, Ulrich Bohling UN Global Compact – Communication on Progress Report 2012 The United Nations Global Compact is the world’s largContinuity in our business model and commitment to basic est initiative for corporate responsibility. More than 2000 ethical values are essential elements of WAGO’s working members from 80 countries have committed themselves environment and we are very proud of this. to engage in responsible and ethically correct business activities. Employees are the heart and soul of a company. Their dedication contributes to the general well-being and success of We at WAGO support the publication of a yearly report the business. Together they form a community committed to reflecting achievements made within the framework of this strong performance and share a common goal in supporting initiative. And so, it gives us great pleasure to present our our global economy. first Communication on Progress Report. WAGO offers its employees a modern, comfortable and As a company that has remained family-owned for three productive workplace where they can develop motivation, generations and operates independently in its market, we apply their skills in a spirit of good cooperation, and work at WAGO plan to strengthen and consolidate our position together to achieve ambitious goals. as an international leader through innovative products and global presence. WAGO is delighted to be a new member of the United Nations Global Compact initiative and is looking forward to Ground-breaking ideas and products have made WAGO a adding its visions and values to this remarkable endeavour pioneer of and world leader in spring connection technolto create a better business community. ogy since 1952. For this reason, we are very happy to commit ourselves to Our vision is to create original cost-efficient solutions for the ten principles of the UN Global Compact initiative. electrical interconnection and automation components that contribute to the safety and reliability of individual devices and complete installations. Our business strategy focuses on long-term achievements Sven Hohorst Axel Börner Ulrich Bohling rather than on short-term profits. Investments are made with the clear objective of lasting success. Management Board of WAGO Kontakttechnik GmbH & Co. KG 2 Human Rights and Employment As a globally active company, WAGO takes its social reaccordance with universal ethical values and principles, sponsibility very seriously. in particular those of integrity, honesty, and respect for humankind. By this we mean that at WAGO we consider the consequences of our business decisions and actions in ecoWAGO has founded its company philosophy on basic valnomic, technical, social and ecological terms and then ues that are held by all employees in their day-to-day work we balance out competing interests accordingly. Within so that each and every individual feels valued, needed and the scope of opportunities available to us, we contribute respected within the company. The results speak for themto the prosperity and sustainable development of the selves: high level of commitment, team-oriented work and global society wherever we do business. We work in low staff turnover. 3 Environment Our planet‘s resources are finite and climate change can management systems QM and EHS through networking no longer be denied. These are facts that pose a great chaland support, and cooperation between different departlenge to manufacturing companies. ments and sites. Being a family-owned business in which thinking in terms of Regular legal research has made it possible both to comply future generations plays a significant role, we give special at all times with current legal conditions of product-related consideration to environmental protection. For this reason, environmental protection and be prepared for future changes it is hardly surprising that we put a lot of effort into optimisand new provisions and laws. In this way, as well as meeting our production processes and our day-to-day activities. ing statutory and internal requirements, WAGO also, and importantly, satisfies the demands of its environmentallyProduct-related environmental protection forms an aware customers. important part of sustainable environmental management at WAGO. Company-related environmental protection Our planet’s resources are finite, and climate change can As WAGO is aware of its responsibility towards employees, no longer be denied . These are facts that pose a great customers, the environment and future generations, avoiding challenge to manufacturing companies. the use of harmful substances in its products and processes is of highest priority . WAGO consistently employs material minimisation methods, recycling, environmentally-friendly processes, such as extenWith a management system certified according to DIN EN sive green roofing, rainwater treatment, as well as filtration of ISO 14001, we ensure that the – national and European harmful substances from waste air, in all its business sectors. – requirements for product-related environmental protection For WAGO, sustainability is a binding obligation to future are systematically met and monitored throughout the life generations. of the products. WAGO has also been certified according to DIN EN ISO 50001, the international standard for WAGO is committed to electronic mobility. As an example energy management systems, since November 2012. The of this, an electronic shuttle bus is used to transport people auditors placed special emphasis on the energy awareness and goods around the site at WAGO´s headquarters in of WAGO employees, the efficient launch of established Minden. 4 Green roofs As a company that operates sustainably, WAGO faces the As it stores water in shoots and foliage, stonecrop is idechallenge of offsetting the environmental friendliness of its ally suited to sunny roofs. The substrate layer underneath factory and office buildings against the economic viability the succulents forms a habitat for various worm species of environmental protection measures. and insects. For several years now, the roofs have been used as a nesting site by oyster catchers from the nearby We regard extensive green roofing as the best solution in Mittelland Canal and River Weser. this respect, as it not only offers visual advantages within the framework of sustainable architecture, it also turns what As well as a habitat, green roofing provides the following is usually unused space into a habitat for various animal benefits: rainwater storage, oxygen production, air filtraand plant species. The main plant species used here are tion, radiation absorption, temperature balance/thermal succulents, as represented primarily by stonecrop. insulation, extended life of the roof. 5 Rainwater cistern WAGO is systematically reducing its fresh water consumpinstallations and on-going maintenance works extend into tion through its use of rainwater cisterns. double-digit years. WAGO began using rainwater as early as the mid 1970s, The rainwater treatment process is relatively simple, but eflong before the term sustainability acquired its modern meficient. Rainwater that falls on our roofs is stored in cisterns aning. In 2007 WAGO decided to build a new rainwater that together hold more than 100 m³ at the site in Minden cistern. The decision was made solely on the basis of enalone. The water is cleaned before being used to meet our vironmental responsibility, as this measure is not economiprocess water requirements and replaces the fresh water cally justifiable. Amortisation periods for all the technical previously used for this purpose. 6 Corporate Social Responsibility As a globally active company, WAGO takes its social ressustainable development of the global society wherever we ponsibility very seriously. do business. We work in accordance with universal ethical values and principles, in particular, those of integrity, and By this we mean that at WAGO we consider the consehonesty, and respect for humankind. quences of our business decisions in economic, technical, social and ecological terms and then we balance out our Anti-corruption competing interests accordingly. Within the scope of opporWe are committed to upholding ethical values and principtunities available to us, we contribute to the prosperity and les, in particular those of integrity and honesty. 7 Practical Actions and Measurements of Outcomes The above-mentioned issues have been addressed by by the company. Altogether, WAGO’s voluntary conWAGO in the form of, among other things, the following tributions to its employees total more than 1.5 million practical measures: euros each year. As a matter of course, WAGO took part in a Germany-wide campaign against racism, as part of which we proudly put up a “Respect” sign at the main entrance to our headquarters in Minden, where people from more than 16 countries work together in unison. The sign is therefore a perfect reflection of WAGO’s philosophy. Another sign has just been put up at WAGO´s second German production site in Sondershausen. WAGO offers its employees several supplementary monetary benefits for childcare, and more than 200 families make use of this assistance. It helps families with small children to pay for nursery costs. More than 70 % of WAGO employees in Germany benefit from an optional retirement provision offered RESPECT! No room for racism. 8 WAGO Foundation WAGO Foundation prize winners WAGO supports education and on-the-job-training. The and a sizeable financial contribution. WAGO set up several WAGO Foundation awards a prize of up to 1,000 euros initiatives in the field of personnel management, including, each year to its three best graduates from nine different for example, a programme that gives employees the opporskilled trades in Minden, where the company’s headquarters tunity to submit direct feedback on their line managers. This are based, and in Sondershausen, home to WAGO’s main makes it possible for WAGO to provide better support to production site. WAGO also makes regular free donations its managers and offer special advanced training wherever of its products to universities and schools for the purpose of necessary. The establishment of a “Junior Leadership Propromoting education. For example, a nearby university was gramme” gives selected employees the chance to prepare able to build an energy-efficient car using WAGO products themselves for management roles. 9 Certified as an attractive employer WAGO was one of first companies to be declared “A firstmunication, as well as Family and Social Affairs. In addition, rate employer” by a certified agency for engineers. This at the beginning of 2012, WAGO was one of the first comcertificate confirms that WAGO is an attractive employer panies ever to be certified as an “Outstanding Employer for for those interested in securing an outstanding start to their Engineers” by the Association of German Engineers (VDI) career and for professionals looking for the perfect career in their weekly newspaper “VDI nachrichten” and by the move. WAGO has achieved other awards as an employer, certification body TÜV Rheinland. Thus, independent aufor instance, the “TOP JOB Employer” award, which is a ditors have certified that WAGO, the globally active hightestament to WAGO’s excellent results in the main fields tech company, is setting Germany-wide benchmarks in, of Human Resources Management, Vision and Strategy, among other things, organisation and processes, employee Human Resources Development, Payment, Culture and Comcare and support, as well as ethics and corporate culture. 10 Targeted Employee Support / Personnel Development Whether it’s young people embarking on their professiothe site in Minden in March 2012. WAGO runs dual and nal careers, junior staff, or employees with many years of practice-integrated study courses in electrical engineering, experience, WAGO provides systematic employee support mechanical engineering, production and plastics engineethrough customised training at all levels. This is a commitment ring, industrial engineering and business informatics. for which WAGO has already received numerous awards. Identifying and utilising potential – this is the motto of With its programmes “WAGO Youth”, “WAGO Starters” “WAGO Professionals”. The training modules for employees and “WAGO Professionals”, the global electrical engineeinclude numerous sessions on various subjects such as time ring company spans the entire “professional life cycle” and and project management, communication and presentation even focuses on those not yet employed by the company: techniques. There are also training sessions designed speci“WAGO Youth” appeals to pupils for whom choosing a profically for management staff in subjects such as staff motivafession is becoming increasingly important. For this reason, tion and staff management, as well as stress management. WAGO offers candidate training sessions at various schools. The “Junior Leadership Programme” was also introduced a WAGO also attends regional job information fairs on a few months ago. Over a period of approximately one and a regular basis. In addition, within the framework of the MINT half years, participants are prepared directly for a possible (Mathematics, Informatics, Natural Sciences, Technology) management role. The goal here is to create a consistent initiative, the company regularly invites ninth class pupils company-wide and skills-based management culture. to visit its sites so that they can get an idea of engineering professions in practice. Another component of “WAGO Professionals” is that of management staff feedback, which was successfully intro“WAGO Starters” is targeted at apprentices. The first builduced in summer 2011. This involves management staff ding block of this programme is the traditional induction across Germany being given structured feedback from the week in which the apprentices get to know the various speemployees they manage, their superiors and colleagues. The cialist departments, as well as WAGO’s corporate culture, management staff also perform self-assessments. WAGO which is based on partnership and fairness. One of the many Personnel Manager Tordis Eulenberg: “Management staff elements of “WAGO Starters” is its practical training for enfeedback makes the objective and systematic assessment of gineering apprentices, which is offered alongside standard skills and management behaviour possible. It identifies inditheory-based tuition. The philosophy of individual care and vidual strengths and areas for improvement and, by doing support is also reflected in the student centre opened at so, it facilitates targeted management staff development.” 11 The innovation network OWL Maschinenbau, a local netThrough facility management our energy consumption work designed to strengthen the position of medium-sized is analysed at every stage of production. WAGO uses engineering businesses in the OstWestfalenLippe area, geothermal energy at its headquarters in Minden and awarded WAGO a prize in 2008. The network highlighted energy saving potential is always considered when conWAGO`s achievements in the fields of sustainability and structing new buildings. advanced training in the local area. WAGO also aims to manufacture its products in ways that WAGO consistently employs material minimisation methods, are as environmentally-friendly and resource-efficient as posrecycling, environmentally friendly processes and energysible. Our energy balance confirms that we were right in our saving technologies, such as ground probes and heat recodecision to replace old machines with new ones and to use very in all its business sectors, from development through to a data collecting system to reduce stagnation in production. production logistics. For WAGO, sustainability is a binding WAGO was awarded the “Arburg Energy Efficiency Award” obligation to future generations. in 2008. Our environmental management system is tested by an exterBeing a global company, WAGO has consistent values and nal examination board and has been ISO 14001 certified standards for all of its subsidiaries worldwide. These are laid since 2002. Our internal standards go far above and beydown in several handbooks, management provisions and, ond the requirements of this certification, as demonstrated most importantly, the WAGO Group Policy, which obliges by our green roofing and rainwater recovery measures. all WAGO group companies to abide by WAGO’s values and standards. WAGO´s product-related environmental management focuses on avoiding harmful substances. One of our most As regards its suppliers and customers, WAGO`s values important responsibilities is to protect our employees and and standards are reflected in the WAGO Code of Conduct, customers. Having an ISO 14001 certified management which calls for strict compliance with the law and good system ensures that WAGO complies with all national and company practices. European product-related requirements. This means that not only are these requirements strictly adhered to and our proIn addition, the WAGO Code of Conduct rejects corruption ducts regularly monitored, but also that WAGO is always and bribery and establishes commitment to implementing prepared for new requirements or amendments. Not only appropriate measures for promoting transparency, coopedo we comply with our internal standards, we also satisfy ration with integrity, responsible leadership and company our customers’ requirements. accountability. As one of the most important aspects of a sustainable In accordance with the WAGO Code of Conduct, we focus company, energy saving is crucial. As the concentraon straightforward and correct business practices. tion of greenhouse gases in the atmosphere is one of the key factors responsible for climate change, and its Compliance with these values and standards is also ensured reduction is fundamental, WAGO is playing its part by by, among other things, WAGO’s own internal standards implementing energy-efficient production worldwide. and monitoring processes. 12
