CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2011 GC RIEBER GROUP CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2011 3 Table of contents MESSAGE FROM THE CEO 4 ABOUT THE GC RIEBER GROUP 5 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY WITHIN GC RIEBER 6 MILESTONES FOR THE GROUP IN 2011 8 GC RIEBER INDUSTRY 10 GC RIEBER SHIPPING 16 GC RIEBER EIENDOM 20 GC RIEBER FOUNDATIONS 24 4 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2011 5 MESSAGE FROM THE CEO ABOUT THE GC RIEBER GROUP A better place to live... GC Rieber is a privately-owned company which practices long-term active ownership within a range of core areas. With this comes a diverse portfolio of financial investments and active financial management. GC Rieber was founded in 1879 through trading in GC Rieber’s ambition is to help make the world a slightly hides and skins, and has subsequently developed over four generations, both through its own growth and through acquisitions and better place at the end of the year than it was at the beginning. organic growth. So, in December 2010 we signed up to the United Nations Global Compact. We have committed ourselves to support GC Rieber’s business is concentrated within the core areas of Industry, Shipping and Real Estate. Each business area is characterised the ten principles of UN Global Compact, within areas such by high expertise in niche markets. The Group operates both locally and internationally, primarily in the corporate markets. The as anti-corruption, human and workers’ rights, and the main office is in Bergen. In addition, the Group is represented through subsidiaries, employees and representatives in all parts of environment. We have put our head above the parapet. Our the world owners and our board are clear that this should not just be a nice certificate to hang on the wall. It commits us to taking Our promise: enhancing values social responsibility as we go about our everyday business. “Social responsibility comes at a cost,” says Warren Buffett. Our vision: Nor is social responsibility a “quick fix”. GC Rieber’s ambition is to maintain and enhance its position as a positive and innovative force in business and the wider community, So will it make any difference if a small enterprise such as GC by developing values for future generations. I find that these processes are gradually making us become Rieber tries to address the bigger questions? When thousands more aware. Our first year as a participant in the UN Global of businesses across the world do the same thing, then it does Our strategy: Compact has encouraged us to organise and document the make a difference. Questions are asked, measurements are GC Rieber shall develop and maintain a leading position in selected business markets. We are characterised by strong relationships various actions and processes that were already an integral taken and communication is established. GC Rieber Oils now with customers and suppliers. Excellent customer understanding, coupled with strong technical expertise, ensures innovation, part of GC Rieber’s social responsibility. In addition, the require written declarations on issues concerning human flexibility and customised solutions for our customers. We have a global perspective on our operations. A common set of values and board, the management and the organisation as a whole rights and sustainable fishing from its suppliers in South a corporate culture form the basis for high quality and active responsibility at all levels. have become increasingly aware of the areas that we need to America. GC Rieber Shipping has demanded that charterers work on. With a relatively wide-reaching business such as GC also comply with the principles of UN Global Impact. Our core values: Rieber – working in some challenging industries and some GC Rieber Eiendom is incorporating new and ambitious • Creativity: we find it stimulating to put the pieces together in a new way and to dare to question established “truths”. challenging parts of the world – we must assume that we will environmental standards in its new builds. Slowly but surely, • Diligence: we are constantly looking for new opportunities and work tirelessly to transform such opportunities into tangible occasionally encounter challenges to our social responsibility. such issues are beginning to form part of the decision-making results. Our aim is to contribute actively to solving these challenges surrounding new projects. And we will do more to back up • Responsibility: we go about our business with a strong sense of responsibility towards our customers, society, the environment through our operations, using our opportunities to influence our commitment. Yes, it does make a difference! and each other. others. This is all part of the journey towards making the world “....a better place to live....”. Paul-Chr. Rieber CEO 6 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2011 7 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY WITHIN GC RIEBER The GC Rieber Group consists of a number of subsidiaries wit3. The Group’s Board of Directors hin different industries and with different challenges and risks. The Group’s Board of Directors is the supreme governing body A shared brand and a shared value statement form the platform of the GC Rieber Group. The Board receives reports from that unites the companies in the Group. To ensure good coordithe Group’s work with CSR on a quarterly basis. Through the nation of the work on social responsibility and simultaneously board’s active involvement, the administration receives useful deal with the various challenges of the different companies, GC feedback that helps strengthen and improve GC Rieber’s corpoRieber has chosen to organise the work at two different levels: rate responsibility. WORK AT GC RIEBER GROUP LEVEL WORK AT COMPANY LEVEL 1. Position with responsibility for HR, CSR & Brand 1. The Management of each Subsidiary At group level there is a dedicated position with responsibility The management of each company holds overall responsibility for organising and being the driving force behind the work on for providing clear, active corporate responsibility within the corporate responsibility. This responsibility includes establishunit. This includes implementing group standards and policy ing Group targets and standards, following up the operating documents, as well as identifying, developing and monitoring units in order to implement corporate standards and providing the specific needs and challenges associated with the unit’s buassistance to the operating units in their work with CSR. The siness operations. position combines responsibility for HR, CSR and Brand based 2. A UN Global Compact Coordinator on the premise that employees are essential for the successful Each subsidiary has its own coordinator, responsible for prointegration of the work on CSR in the Group’s daily operations. viding quarterly reports on the status and progress of the The position is part of the Group management team and reports subsidiary’s work on corporate responsibility. The role of UNGC to the CEO. coordinator is not a specific position, but a function handled by 2. UN Global Compact Task Force a dedicated person in each subsidiary. The UNGC coordinator A UN Global Compact Task Force has been put together to represents the subsidiary in the UNGC Task Force. In most develop the ongoing work with CSR. The task force holds four cases, the coordinator is also a member of the subsidiary’s mameetings a year and consists of representatives from the largest nagement. companies in the group. The task force’s aim is to support the 3. The Board of Director in each subsidiary Group’s work on CSR, to challenge each other’s company tarEach subsidiary within the Group has a separate board of digets, to develop common tools and practices and to act as a liairectors. For the Group’s major subsidiaries, the board consists son between the group and the operating units. Anti-corruption of both internal and external members. The Boards receives a Following up the participation of UN Global Compact work was chosen as the focus for task force in 2010. report of the subsidiary’s work with CSR on a quarterly basis, thus providing useful input to the subsidiary’s CR-work. 8 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2011 9 MILESTONES FOR THE GROUP IN 2011 mas are regularly put on the agenda to increase leaders’ awarecars have been booked almost 600 times during the year. This ness of these issues. equals an average of approximately 12 individual trips per week. The measure has thus resulted in a small but positive contribuAfter an extensive process in which managers and governing company’s own employees are 330 males and 101 females. Two El-cars for co-workers tion to reducing air pollution in Bergen. bodies gave their consent, GC Rieber signed up to the UN Gloof the six members of the Group’s management team are woThe city of Bergen, where GC Rieber has its head office, is expebal Compact in December 2010. In order to inform the organimen. There is female representation in the boards of all major riencing a growing environmental problem represented by car sation about UN Global Compact and what GC Rieber’s endorsubsidiaries. Guidelines to ensure equality and diversity in the traffic. On cold winter days in particular, the emissions from sement meant, several measures were implemented in 2011: group are enforced, and a high focus is kept on this area with traffic results in the creation of an exhaust cap over the city. To • Information at regular meetings in the operational units regard to recruitment, training and career development. help reduce traffic, staff at the head office have been sponsored • UNGC’s ten principles posted on the wall of all Group locato give up using the parking lot and to use environmentallytions, including all ships GC Rieber focuses strongly on developing employees and enfriendly means of transport to get to work. At the beginning of • Two articles on the UN Global Compact and corporate rehancing their expertise. The group’s competence policy includes 2011, it was further decided to introduce free usage of electric sponsibility in GC Rieber’s internal magazine a goal of a minimum of five days’ competence training for all cars during working hours for GC Rieber staff. At the end of employees during the year. Over the last year, GC Rieber has 2011 the statistics from the booking system shows that the elRevitalizing the Group’s ”Guidelines for ethics and had several employees who have undertaken comprehensive corporate responsibility” job-related education at Master’s degree level. In parallel with adherence to the UN Global Compact, GC Rieber launched a new edition of “Guidelines for Ethics and The Group regularly conducts an employee satisfaction surCorporate Responsibility”. The guidelines include general prinvey where employees can provide feedback anonymously on a ciples for business practice and personal behaviour, and cover number of statements about leadership, application of skills, areas such as human rights, discrimination, impartiality, use of information-sharing and general well-being. The employee saagents, corruption and whistle-blowing. The document applies tisfaction survey this year shows an average level of employees’ to all employees, contractors and members of the boards at GC general well-being of 4,2 on a scale of 1 to 5, with 5 being the Rieber. “The guidelines are intended to be a starting point for highest score. the attitudes and fundamental views that represent the culture of the group,” says CEO Paul-Chr. Rieber. In 2011 GC Rieber also initiated an internal mentoring program. A total of 15 mentors and 15 mentees were selected after The renewal of the guidelines was followed up with information an open application process. The goal is to establish the transfer to all employees and managers. In addition, a pocket-size booof competence and experience between the different generaklet was produced, presenting the guidelines in both Norwegian tions in the Group, between the various subsidiaries and to and English. This was produced in order to make the guidelines strengthen the internal culture of GC Rieber. easily available to all employees. To improve the quality of the Group’s leadership processes, a Working environment and leadership broad range of leaders in the Group meet four times a year to GC Rieber has 431 employees and the Group also has approdiscuss common concerns, share experiences and set goals for ximately as many sailors on long term contracts. Among the the Group’s work. Corporate responsibility and ethical dilem10 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2011 11 GC RIEBER INDUSTRY MEASURES AND GOALS ACHIEVED • Planned revision of selected suppliers using third party during 2012. (GC Rieber Oils) Environment • Implemented measures to ensure closer follow-up of the About GC Rieber Industry • By establishing production in India we reduce the emissions partly-owned company Tunisel. Human rights and HSE have from transporting raw materials and finished goods. (Comregularily been put on the agenda at board meetings. The GC Rieber Industri comprises the Group’s activities within the pact) work is behind schedule and has been complicated by the goods and process industry. Currently, these products consist • Converted the transport of manufactured goods from road unrest in the neighbouring country of Libya. (GC Rieber Salt) of omega-3 oils, salt, leather and nutritional and emergency to sea with anticipated 25% reduction in CO2 discharge. (GC rations. Each of the companies within Industri is a leader witRieber Oils). Workers Rights hin its niche market, and together the companies offer a strong • Implemented measures to reduce discharge to sea through • All employees have written employment contracts that are in industrial skills base. increased levels of cleansing and regular maintenance proaccordance with international and national standards. (All) grammes for cleansing equipment. (GC Rieber Oils) • Regular meetings with worker’s representatives. (GC Rieber The companies within GC Industri operate locally as well as • Installed equipment that replaces 25% of heating oil conOils) globally. Raw materials are obtained globally and the supplier sumption with bio-diesel produced in-house though steam chains are largely global. GC Rieber Industri also has a series production. (GC Rieber Oils) Anti-corruption of partly-owned companies overseas, partly in the Developing • Participation in the “Miljøtrygg vinterdrift i Oslo” project • Procedure on ethics and social responsibility in place. (All) World with standards for corruption, human rights, workers’ (“Environmentally-safe winter operations in Oslo”) together • Established clear channels for warning about attempted corrights and the environment that differ to those that apply in with Norwegian Directorate of Public Roads (GC Rieber Salt) ruption or suspected corruption. (All companies) Norway. Quality assurance and following up supplier chains • Established contact with the Danish authorities to promote • Reduced the number of agents/middle men in order to reand partly-owned companies are therefore important priorities MG Kombi as an environmentally-sound alternative in Daduce the risk of corruption. (GC Rieber Oils) for GC Rieber Industri. nish winter road maintenance. (GC Rieber Salt) • Started work on clarifying expectations of existing agents regarding anti-corruption. (GC Rieber Oils) The flow of goods (raw materials and manufactured goods) Human Rights • Started work on standardising routines for selection and to the companies within GC Rieber Industri results in some • A new Code of Conduct has been introduced for suppliers, quality assurance of new agents. (GC Rieber Oils) discharges and work is ongoing to reduce the effects of these. subcontractors and other contractual partners. Furthermore • Introduced “Supplier’s Code of Conduct” for all suppliers. Furthermore, the production processes themselves also lead to a supplier audit has been carried out (Compact) Corruption will also be the theme for the planned supplier the consumption of energy, packaging and in some cases dis• Customers perform random supplier audits. (Compact) audits using a third party planned for 2012 (GC Rieber Oils). charge to sea. • Compact AS is now ISO 22000 approved, and the company’s • Suggested that compliance to the principles of UN Global quality procedures ensure quality in the entire value chain. Compat should be mandatory for all nutrition suppliers to • Implemented measures to ensure closer follow-up of partlyUNICEF. (Compact) owned Maromega (35%), in order to make the company ad• Actions to ensure documentation and transparency in achere to the UN Global Compact’s principles and to report on cordance with international standards in partly-owned comthe financial status on a regular basis (GC Rieber Oils) pany Tunisel. The work has been challenging and led to GC • Quality assurance of the company’s suppliers through sigRieber Salt’s decision not to approve the annual report/acconing up to the “Supplier’s Code of Conduct” . (GC Rieber unts for Tunisel. The case is currently part of a legal process. Oils). 12 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2011 13 QUALITY ASSURANCE OF THE OMEGA-3 Upon arrival in Norway, the fish oil is inspected and approved cement of fuel oil with home-made bio-diesel is approved by the SUPPLY CHAIN by the Norwegian Food Safety Authority, before the oil is refiNorwegian Pollution Control Department. ned at GC Rieber Oils’ plant in Kristiansund, Norway. All in all, For a number of years, GC Rieber Oils has purchased a large these quality tests ensure a sustainable and safe production of proportion of its fish oil from Peru. “The fish in the waters off omega-3 oils for human consumption. of Peru are particularly well-suited for the production of omega-3 oils due to their high concentration of fat,” says Managing FROM FOSSIL FUEL TO SELF-PRODUCED BIO Director Jan Roger Bjerkestrand. GC Rieber Oils are naturally DIESEL concerned to ensure a sustainable and safe production of omega-3 and the company has therefore worked hard to ensure GC Rieber Oils’ two factories in Kristiansund refine fish oils the quality and improve the supply chain processes. for high-quality omega-3 oils for human consumption. The refining processes are operated by steam, and until now fossil The company has traditionally attached great importance to fuels have been used to heat the steam boilers. GC Rieber Oils conducting regular visits and inspections at the factories in has now found a more environmentally-friendly substitute for order to obtain first-hand knowledge of the way production is heating oil. carried out. This work will continue in the future, explains Bjerkestrand. During the production of omega-3 concentrates, the fatty acids containing omega-3 are separated out. The process also forms “Furthermore, in 2011 we set up a separate audit programme saturated fatty acids which are not suitable for human conand this work is being intensified in both Peru and other supsumption from a nutritional point of view. By means of distilplier countries. The first step of the programme is to implement lation these acids are separated from the production process. a written declaration (“Supplier’s Code of Conduct”) whereby all However, waste saturated fatty acids may be useful as bio-diesel suppliers are required to comply with important principles on and thus could replace current fossil fuel. Bio-diesel from fish the environment, human and workers’ rights and anti-corruptioil is a renewable resource, and even if the CO2 emissions are on. This step was almost complete at the end of December 2011. similar to traditional heating oil, the cycle will be CO2-neutral Then we will set up regular inspections with the help of an inin accordance with GHG accounting. dependent and professional third party, which, according to the plan, will be implemented during 2012,” says Bjerkestrand. Replacing the oil began in September, and the experience so far is that the boilers burn more cleanly and with less soot. In order to ensure product quality, all factories from which GC ensure fish oil that is safe for human consumption. This proviAnalyses show that sulphur emissions are also expected to be Rieber Oils buys fish in Peru, are recognised as producers by sion is enforced locally by the so-called “competent authority“ considerably reduced compared with fuel oil from petroleum. the EU according to EU hygiene regulations. These regulations approving facilities and boats. Health certificates are issued In addition to being more environmentally-friendly, this is also Top: Co-workers Mats Ivar Kjønnøy and Ståle Breivik monitor govern the quality of raw materials, storage, and transportaion for each lot in accordance with the directive. This includes demore profitable for the company. GC Rieber Oils anticipates a the production process at GC Rieber Oil’s production plant in Kristiansund, Norway. Above: The new steam boiler where bio maintaining the hygiene quality that is deemed necessary to mands for hygiene quality and traceability. reduction in heating oil consumption of about 25% in 2011. The diesel now has replaced fossil fuel. goal is 100% replacement of heating oil. GC Rieber Oils’ repla14 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2011 15 EMERGENCY FOOD TO THE FAMINE AT THE HORN OF AFRIKA PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT PROVIDES GREAT ENVIRONMENTAL BENEFITS Left: Unloading Compact’s emergency food rations from an Airbus machine at the airport in Kenya July 2011. Below: BP-5, the high energy, wheat-based emergency-”bar” ’Countries with a cold winter climate like Norway often have developed for the initial phase in a disaster area. great difficulty in maintaining roads and ensuring they are safe in winter when the temperature fluctuates rapidly around zero degrees, with snow and sleet. The best means of ensuring traffic safety and reducing the number of accidents under such conditions is to use salt on the roads. However, salting the roads also has some unfortunate effects, such as contamination of ground along roads. GC Rieber Salt, the largest supplier of salt and related services, has long been aware of this issue. Hence in recent years, the company has implemented a number of projects to reduce the amount of salt It has been a very busy summer for Erik Sunde, Compact’s Each ration weighs half a kilo and provides enough nourishon the roads, says Kim Aslaksen, Markering Manager at GC long-serving sales representative in Africa and Asia. The sevement for an adult for about three days. “We also delivered large Rieber Salt. re famine and refugee disaster in the Horn of Africa has resulquantities of the product eeZeePaste, which is a therapeutic ted in Compact’s stores of emergency and nutritional products food based on ground peanuts. eeZeePaste is used in the treatOne of the most important and successful projects is the debeing depleted in a very short time. Sunde has played a key ment of acutely malnourished children, i.e. children who are so velopment of MG Combi, consisting of a mixture of magnesium role in this work and contributed to the relief arriving quickly. seriously malnourished they are unable to absorb other nutrichloride and salt. The mixture contains less chloride than retion. The needs in the Horn of Africa are enormous,” explains gular road salt, and by adding MG Combi as lake along with the However, Compact was well-equipped to meet the demand for Sunde. usual road salt, it adheres better to the road. In many cases this emergency food products that exploded in mid-July. “All of our can reduce the frequency of road salting, to the benefit of both emergency stores in Norway, Denmark, Kenya, Dubai and India When asked what the best aspect of his job is, Sunde answered: the customers’ finances and the environment. were full,” says Sunde. “In just over a week, we sent five aircraft loaded with Compact BP-5 to Somalia and Kenya.” “It is the fact that every day I see that people like me and the “ The use of MG Combi has actually reduced the volume of products we make are needed. We both save and improve lives. road salt in Oslo by 20-25%. The findings are well-documented The food rations sent from Norway to Somalia is called BP-5. Knowing that what you are doing right now is important and through a pilot project in which GC Rieber Salt participated This is a high-energy, wheat-based ’bar’, which has been spewill help many people makes getting up every day something Top: MG Kombi, GC Rieber Salt’s environmental friendly together with the Norwegian Public Roads Administration,” alternative for salting of roads. cially developed for use in the initial phase in a disaster area. to look forward to. We also work on improving long-term food Above: Preparation and loading of the car at GC Rieber’s says Aslaksen. terminal i Ålesund, Norway, before salting of roads. BP-5 needs no preparation and essential minerals and vitamins habits in many countries, and over time we have seen great im“The project has attracted much attention in our neighbouring have been added to maintain the body’s necessary basic funcprovements as a result of our work.” countries, and the Danes and Icelanders have now seen the betions. nefits and are copying the project,” says Aslaksen. 16 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2011 17 GC RIEBER SHIPPING MEASURES AND GOALS ACHIEVED Environment Workers rights • Introduced a reporting system for waste. The goal for 2011 is • All employees have proper employment contracts that are About GC Rieber Shipping to have this reporting system fully implemented. well within relevant international and local regulations. • The main supplier of chemicals to the company will produce • A safety management system is in place, included incident GC Rieber Shipping develops, owns and operates advanced, statistics for each vessel purchase of chemicals, and the and non-conformity reporting for continuous improvement. multi-functional specialist ships for specific markets within offcompany will evaluate the statistics on a quarterly basis. The • All systems are well-implemented, but improvements can be shore support, seismics and research. The company specialises company will also evaluate the type of chemicals used to achieved through higher quality incident investigations. in offshore and subsea operations and has long experience with ensure that the most environmentally-friendly chemicals are • Training for employees onboard and ashore is implemented work in challenging waters. The company is listed on the Oslo being used. according to the training requirements in the vessel’s traiStock Exchange and is represented by subsidiary companies in • Introduced a reporting system for fuel and lubrication oil ning matrix. Singapore, Russia and the United Kingdom. consumption and estimating emissions from these data. The goal for 2011 is to have this reporting system fully implemenGC Rieber Shipping works continuously to manage negative ted and working well. Anti-corruption environmental effects of the company’s operations though tar• A maintenance plan is in place for all vessels, according to • Corporate procedure on ethics and CSR in place. geted plans to reduce discharges and the use of chemicals. makers’ recommendations and relevant rules and regula• The ten principles of the UN Global Compact are posted on tions. The company standard is also being implemented. every vessel and in every office. The shipping industry in general is exposed to risks linked to The goal for 2011 is to implement quarterly reports on • Structured training in the anti-corruption procedure and corruption and facilitation payments, particularly when using maintenance status. how each individual shall handle different situations is to be agents and at ports of call. GC Rieber is actively responding to • Started work on a NOx-reduction probability study for comdeveloped. Relevant for all office personnel at risk regarding this problem through the use of thorough processes for selecpany-owned vessels. The study includes measures for fuel corruption and all senior officers on the vessels. ting co-operating partners and training employees in how to reduction. • The highest risk of bribery occurs when vessels start opereact to such situations. rations/call at port in new areas. The company is working Human Rights continuously to avoid any deficiencies onboard. Masters are Safety on board ships is a high priority area for GC Rieber Ship• Use of subcontractors represents a risk of a breach of human “trained” to handle requests for “gifts”. ping and extensive work is carried out each year to ensure good, rights. The company is a member of Incentra and gives prio• Good planning of operations in new areas reduces the risk. safe operations for employees, customers and other partners. rity to the use of Incentra-approved suppliers. The plan for the operation/port call in new areas must be ap• All Incentra-approved suppliers are audited to ISO standard proved by the operation manager. requirements and human rights. • A procedure for agent appointment is in place, but needs to • Supplier’s code of conduct to be implemented in the purchabe revised to include “Supplier’s code of conduct”. sing procedure and given to all major suppliers. A way of mo• All employees are requested to report any observations of nitoring this activity needs to be developed during 2011. bribery. 18 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2011 19 TRAINING ON SAFETY ISSUES CAREFUL SELECTION OF CHARTERERS During the year, the company has carried out four series of GC Rieber Shipping operates highly advanced ships, most of training in internal control systems for maritime personnel. which are on long term contracts with clients. During opeTraining on how to handle investigations of incidents on board rations there are often two crews onboard; GC Rieber’s crew and ashore has also been completed. As part of the work of dewho’s in charge of the maritime operations and the client’s crew veloping good attitudes towards safety on board, the company who carry out e.g seismic explorations, subsea operations or has established a DVD library of over 30 films covering safety polar research. Good cooperation between GC Rieber’s crew issues for different work situations. and the client’s personnel are crucial to make operations safe and efficient. Opposite page: From the naming ceremony of Polar King. Below: To lay the foundation for an efficient collaboration GC Rieber Maritime crew in operation. Bottom: From the naming ceremony of Polar Queen. Shipping conducts a comprehensive process to ensure the quality of their charterers. Compliance to international maritime standards and GC Rieber’s internal HSE-procedures are monitored systematically along the way by the crew and GC Rieber Shipping’s management. FLEET RENEWAL AND MORE ENVIRONQUALIFYING FOR THE ENVIRONMENTAL MENTALLY-FRIENDLY SHIPS STANDARD ISO 14001 In 2011 GC Rieber Shipping completed three new ships and put GC Rieber Shipping has started the certification process for them into operation. The new ships have equipment built to the environmental standard ISO 14001. During 2011, the company latest requirements for treatment and discharge. In particular, has been working to create systems that will provide an overvithese measures have been shown to have a good effect on new ew of how the company affects the environment both positively engines. and negatively. In addition to the mandatory requirements, GC Rieber ShipSo far, a gap analysis has been conducted to assess the standard ping also invested in a cleaning package for the exhaust of the of today’s systems in relation to the requirements of ISO 14001 two most recent IMR/CSV ships, Polar King and Polar Queen. Recently the company also went through a document audit These ships have installed a catalyst system (SCR) to reduce conducted by DNV. The audit concluded that the company has NOx emissions. For Polar King, which went into operation in taken a major step towards qualifying for the ISO 14001-stanthe North Sea in the spring of 2011, the actual NOx emissions dard. Certification of the office is scheduled to take place at the have been reduced from 94,813 kg to 48,399 kg. This equals a start of 2012. Following this, DNV will inspect two of company’s reduction of 46,415 kg NOx from the time the catalyst system ships to verify that all systems and procedures are implemented was put into operation on 5 May until 1 December this year. and followed on board. 20 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2011 21 GC RIEBER EIENDOM MEASURES AND GOALS ACHIEVED • The company has a strong focus on HSE and safety in order to ensure basic safety and security for employees. Regular Environment skills-development training is carried out amongst employ• Continuous environmental improvements to existing and ees to ensure this. About GC Rieber Eiendom new buildings through the location of building plots, choice of materials, waste sorting, intelligent lighting, heating etc. Workers Rights GC Rieber Eiendom is a leading player within property in Ber• Completion of the reference project for he Norwegian BuWorkers’ rights are safeguarded and followed up through good gen. The company develops and operates complete business siness School. The building has been completed to a higher project management routines, including: premises for customers who want a central location, good parenvironmental standard that that required by the building • Employees are required to have identity cards for the conking provision and other associated facilities. The most imporregulations. struction and plant industry (some exceptions). In order to tant business areas are Solheimsviken Næringspark, Fiskeri• Demands for environmental friendliness are being set for acquire this card, the employee must be registered in the AA senteret Bontelabo and Marineholmen Forskningspark. suppliers to construction projects. Suppliers submit reports register. The card is logged in and out at the workplace. The in line with GC Rieber Eiendom’s environmental requirecard must be shown to the Norwegian Labour Inspection The company has set itself a goal of being amongst the best ments for new projects. Authority, the tax authorities and health and safety coordinaproperty companies in Norway for environmentally-sound de• Joined the Norwegian Green Building Council (NGBC) tors upon request. velopment, construction and operation of business premises. whose objective is to ensure that Norwegian buildings are • Requirements for continuous reporting on all foreign manThis obviously sets high demands for the design and operation constructed to a high environmental standard. power used in contract work. Adherence to Norwegian of the buildings, not least within energy-saving measures.. • Work is being done to establish energy classifications for standards for tariffs and work environment in the contract buildings. with all suppliers. This is also followed up in all contractor One general challenge associated with the construction in• Developing monitors in new builds for public use that show meetings. dustry is that the industry has traditionally been more exposed energy consumption in the building as a whole and by floor. • Contracting similar points with other types of suppliers used to corruption than other industries. Furthermore, in recent This measures creates increased awareness about the enviby GC Rieber Eiendom, for example in cleaning and canteen years the industry has come under the spotlight for social dumronment and consumption amongst end users. operation is under consideration. ping and questionable working conditions. Based on this, GC • Completed environmentally-friendly energy centre, based Rieber has taken active steps to ensure that this will not occur on seawater intake. By using this water for cooling, a saving Anti-corruption in GC Rieber’s construction projects. of approx. 2 million kWh per year is achieved compared to • Corporate procedure on ethics and CSR in place normal heat pump technology, which results in an annual • Clear routines have been established to prevent corruption reduction of approx. 1,210 tonnes of CO2 emissions to air. linked to the bidding process and contract negotiations. • The company’s routines and frameworks for what is accepHuman Rights table are communicated and made known to cooperating • GC Rieber Eiendom has implemented procedures and guidpartners. elines on equality and diversity • Information meetings have been introduced regarding anti• GC Rieber operates locally and adheres to current tariffs for corruption for all employees at GC Rieber Eiendom. the construction industry. • An internal point of contact has been established for reporting discrepancies linked to corruption, and attempted or suspected corruption. 22 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2011 23 THE MOST ECO-FRIENDLY UNIVERSITY Not only is this form of heating kinder to the environment, it BUILDING IN NORWAY? also helps us save money on sorting waste and heating. The choice of materials has also been exclusively eco-friendly. When the new building for the Norwegian Business School The building’s façade is made of recyclable glass and alumiopens its doors in Marineholmen, Bergen, in August, it will nium. All panelling is made from the sustainable material, probably be the “greenest” educational building in Norway. Kebony, which has zero negative impact on the environment. As Project Director Tor Instanes from GC Rieber Eiendom exKebony is manufactured from a liquid recovered from bio wasplains: “The environment has been a focal point since Day 1 of te. As a waste product, Kebony can be treated as normal raw the planning process.” timber. Naturally, Norwegian pine has been chosen rather than American. “Our philosophy has been to make use of Norwegian This has included the location of the site, the choice of materiand local suppliers whenever possible. By sourcing our supplies als, separation of waste during the building process and intellocally, we can reduce emissions to the environment,” concludes Left: The new energy centre at Marineholmen in Bergen, developed by GC Rieber Eiendom. Right: Members of the project team responsible ligent light control in the finished building. Tor Instanes from GC Rieber Eiendom. for the new building for the Norwegion Business School. “The project is unique,” confirms construction supervisor Thor Atle Drønen from OPAK. “A number of customers have still not ESTABLISHING A NORWEGIAN ENVIRONMENTAL CONTRUCTION OF ENVIRONMENTALLY SOUND fully acknowledged the requirements they actually face, and do STANDARD FOR BUILDINGS ENERGY CENTRE The cold water is primarily used to cool of buildings. In addition not know what to answer when we ask them about environmenit supplies the marine research activities at Marineholmen with tal choices. With this project, we already had a complete and In September 2011, the Norwegian Green Building Council At Marineholmen in Bergen, GC Rieber Eiendom has built a water. The use of the water for heating the buildings, using heat carefully-considered plan that was introduced to all parties (NGBC) was established by some sixty key players in the conmodern energy centre based on seawater. The energy centre pump technology, is also being considered. from the very start.” struction and property industry, including GC Rieber Eienwas commissioned in June 2011 and it now provides energy to dom. It is NBGC’s objective to ensure that Norwegian buildings a number of buildings on Marineholmen, including ThormøhAfter the energy centre opened in 2011, both municipal and “In the construction industry, waste from building work can are constructed to a high environmental standard. lensgate 37 and 39, and the new building for BI (the Norwestate agencies as well as private real estate companies have vinormally be as high as 8-9%. The Business School building gian Business School). In the future, the new energy centre will sited Marineholmen to see the energy centre. They have shown is composed of elements, providing huge reductions in the Internationally, there are currently a number of different envibe developed to supply energy to several other large buildings great interest in this innovative project that contributes to the amount of cut-offs to be disposed of. Any cut-offs we had will ronmental standards for classifying buildings. At the formation in the vicinity. energy efficiency of Inner Puddefjorden. be burnt, generating heat for our industrial premises,” explains of NGBC, BREEM was chosen as the preferred standard for Sverke Haavik from Leigland Bygg. He is the executive foreman Norway. The BREEAM standard will require documentation The energy centre collects seawater through a 2.5 km long plasfor the project and is responsible for separation at source on the to verify qualities such as health and comfort, energy, choice tic pipe with a diameter of 1.2 metres. The seawater pipeline is FACTS: building site. All waste is sorted into eleven different containers of materials, area layout, transport, waste, water and effluent. lowered into the fjord from Marineholmen and runs out into (mineral, wood, plasterboard, plastic, tiles, cardboard, metal, Crucially, the actual use of the buildings will also be assessed, the fjord at a depth of 100 metres. The seawater pipeline takes • Heat Pump: 1 kWh in and kWh 4 out. This is the effect of polystyrene, electrical cables, grinding dust and residual waste) providing a supplement to the theoretical calculations. When a in approx. 1000 litres of water per second. By using this water normal heat pump technology. and any contractors whose employees fail to sort waste properly building has been classified, it is awarded a grade that indicates to cool the buildings, a saving of approx. 2 million kWh per year • Free cooling: 1 kWh and 70 kWh out. This is the effect of will be fined. how environmentally-friendly it is in use. GC Rieber Eiendom is achieved compared to normal heat pump technology. In total the use of sea water from 100 metres (6-8 C). aims to ensure that the company’s properties are given good this provides an annual reduction of approx. 1,210 tonnes of Throughout the building process, heating has been supplied by assessments when BREEAM is employed, whether in new proCO2 emissions to air. a central heating plant rather than gas or oil. jects or in existing buildings. 24 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2011 25 GC RIEBER FOUNDATIONS DONATIONS TO HAUKELAND UNIVERSITY HOSPITAL make an effort for our patients. Good partners are worth their Over the last 12 years GC Rieber Fondene has donated gifts weight in gold, for patients, next of kin and staff. I should like About GC Foundations worth several million Norwegian kroner to the hospital. “These to take this opportunity to thank everyone who has contributed gifts mean a lot to our patients,” says Stener Kvinnsland, CEO to the gifts we have received from GC Rieber Fondene,” says At GC Rieber’s 50th anniversary in 1929, Gottlieb Christian and at the Haukeland University Hospital. Kvinnsland. Emma Rieber established a charitable fund. This was the origin of the GC Rieber Foundations, which are now one of the owners The gifts have been many and varied. Some have been donated of GC Rieber AS, with approximately 25% share. to causes directly linked to the treatment of patients, including technical medical equipment and research. The GC Rieber Foundations support charitable and cultural Some gifts have also been donated to projects that aim to make purposes, mainly in Bergen. In addition, the GC Rieber Founlife a little easier for those admitted to hospital. dations support science and research. The basis for the financial support comes from the return on the Foundation’s equity, in “Hospital budgets are tight, and we have to give priority to terms of dividends and other contributions from the GC Rieber things that focus directly on the treatment of patients. This is group. why it is so great to have supporters like GC Rieber, who donate gifts to allow us to improve the everyday well-being of our patiLast year the GC Rieber Foundations supported different proents. It is often these things that make the day a little better for jects with a total sum of 11.7 million Norwegian kroner. The them,” says Kvinnsland. most important projects last year have been support for a scientific project on air pollution in Bergen at the GC Rieber Climate The funds were the driving force behind the children’s proInstitute, support for a music installation at Bergen Science gramme at Haukeland. This is a collaboration between GC RiCentre, and support for various projects at Haukeland Univereber Fondene, the Grieg Foundation and Haukeland University sity Hospital. Hospital. The programme funds hospital clowns and a music therapist. Music therapy is gaining ever-increasing attention both nationally and internationally, and more and more research is being carried out into the effects of music. “The children’s programme collaboration means that we can The GC Rieber Foundationswere also the driving force now offer this service to all children at the hospital,” says behind the children’s programme at Haukeland. This is a Kvinnsland. collaboration between GC Rieber Foundations, the Grieg Foundation and Haukeland University Hospital. The programme funds hospital clowns and a music therapist. Stener Kvinnsland is grateful for the commitment shown by GC Rieber Fondene. “The money we receive is of course important. But the involvement itself is also important – the fact that there are people in Bergen who care about the hospital and wish to 26 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2011 27 GC RIEBER WORLDWIDE GC Rieber Group Head Office Bergen, Norway Norwegian branches/subsidiaries Oslo Os Bergen Kristiansund ÅlesundTrondheimHammerfest Overseas branches/subsidiaries Haryana, India Fredericia, Denmark Tunis, Tunisia Richmond VIC, Australia New Jersey, USA St. Johns, Newfoundland, Canada Sevenoaks, Kent, UK Yuzhno-Sakhalinsk, Russian Federation Ships in operation Polar Explorer Ernest Shackleton Polar Prince Geo Atlantic Protector Polar Pevek Polar King Polar Duke Polar Queen Polar Duchess Polar Piltun Polar Baikal 28 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT GC RIEBER AS SOLHEIMSGATEN 15 / P.O. BOX 990 SENTRUM / 5808 BERGEN / NORWAY TEL +47 55 60 67 00 / FAX +47 55 60 67 01 / WWW.GCRIEBER.NO LAYOUT AND PRODUCTION: GC RIEBER AS
