Wihlborgs Sustainability Report 2011 Contents and introduction The Property Kranen 9 at Dockan in Malmö. The building was awarded the Malmö Stadsbyggnadspris in 2002. Wihlborgs Sustainability Report 2011 3 04 06 08 10 A word from Awards and Introducing About our the CEO recognition Wihlborgs sustainability report 14 18 22 24 Governance Sustainability Financial Environmental targets with risks responsibility responsibility and opportunities 36 42 46 47 Social Global Reporting Global Compact Auditors' responsibility Initiative Index Report 49 53 54 Glossary Contact persons Sustainability high points 2011 Wihlborgs properties Wihlborgs is the leading property company in the Öresund region, owning property with a total market value of SEK 18 billion. The lettable area of the property totals 1.4 million square metres. The total rental value is SEK 1.6 billion. The portfolio mainly consists of commercial properties. The Company’s shares are quoted on the Mid Cap List of the OMX Nordic Exchange. A word from the CEO Business and sustainability issues must go hand in hand There is no other way. It becomes clearer and clearer each passing year that we have a joint responsibility to think outside our own narrow business areas – and to see our own activities as part of a larger whole. Wihlborgs' properties are located in the expansive Öresund region, but this does not mean that we can ignore the global perspective. What we do locally can affect the world as a whole, and what is done globally can affect us as local businesses. I am therefore especially proud that Wihlborgs is now publishing a sustainability report in accordance with the GRI (Global Reporting Initiative). I am convinced this is significant for everyone who one way or another is affected by our business activities. It certainly should be. Social responsibility is more than Which can take time just the environment We view our own work on sustainability issues with both respect and humility. It is a long term process that is being conEven just a few years ago, I would have said that a sustainability stantly developed and not always quite so simple to implement. report from Wihlborgs would concern the environment to 90 It takes time to integrate sustainability issues across our entire percent. In July 2010 we signed the UN Global Compact – and company. It is not enough to list every ambition on paper, we our environmental impact is certainly very largely linked to the need to turn these into reality too. We have elected to allow Global Compact's ten principles. But that is still only a small part the procedures in the direction of our sustainability report the of the responsibility that makes up the concept of sustainability. time they need. We have had policies and codes on how we are How we as a company view society should be seen from both to behave for a long time, but in signing the UN Global Compact a financial, environmental and social perspective. we have raised the bar for our sustainability work even higher. As a long term decision, we have decided to report on our sustainability work to GRI level B+. The GRI framework is an effective tool of strategic operational development and will help Everyday operations are increasus in constantly developing and improving our performance. ingly focused on sustainability It also creates an opportunity for us to report on our own I can categorically state that sustainability issues now take up development in a comparable and transparent way. ever more time at internal meetings and at our executive and board meetings at Wihlborgs. We have appointed a CSR group Wihlborgs Sustainability Report 2011 5 Risks can also mean business opportunities When it comes to our long term goals we have been performing risk assessments in several sustainability areas. We have identified our ten biggest risks and at the same time concluded that these risks also offer business opportunities. For instance, we envisage major development opportunities in association with our supplier chains. Our business is based on owning, managing and developing commercial premises which means we are dependent on a number of suppliers in order to be able to operate our business in a good way. This means that we make demands and work strategically with a check list when we sign agreements with our suppliers. We monitor our suppliers, risk assess them – and if we are not happy – we give them the chance to improve and be able to continue their relationship with us. For us, taking responsibility is about seeing the whole picture, finding a balance for what is reasonable for us and our business, and to see where our boundaries lie, how far we can go and where we want to draw the line for our responsibility. Where do we want to operate, where do we want to invest? “Our ambition is to create conditions to enable business in the Öresund region When we recruit new employees, an increasingly common to grow strongly,” says Anders Jarl. question is what does the company stand for? We need skilled and committed employees if we are to continue our success, internally comprising the Information Director, Chief Financial but they also make demands on the company where they wish Officer, HR Manager, Purchasing Manager and Environment to make their contribution. Manager. The group consists of three women and two men and Wihlborgs' ethical approach is also increasingly becoming both the CFO and Information Director are members of the part of the equation when external investors look at our shares company's group management. – what kind of company am I investing in, what values do they stand for and do I share these values? Wihlborgs talks sustainability If you are reading our sustainability report – we would really like you to tell us what you think is good and what could have We try to do this outside our own walls too. Evaluating the been better. Listening to people like you who are concerned financial aspects of strategic decisions in the management about sustainability issues and taking onboard what you say is group has long been a matter of course for us. As we do the one of the ways in which we can improve. So please get in touch environment aspects which are often closely linked to financial with any of the members of Wihlborgs' CSR group – you will ones. At the same time, we have a big responsibility to manage find their contact details on page 53. our business as good citizens of the community – and we can I am convinced that sustainability issues go hand in hand probably do more on this social level. One step in this direction with profitability. is the stakeholder dialogue we have initiated and which I hope we can develop further in the coming years. Within five years, we hope to find a strategy for how our core business can contribute to one or more social projects that benefit the local community. The decision to present a sustainability We have also taken the decision in the management group to report in line with GRI was taken by the Wihlborgs board in August 2010. The board raise ethics related issues as they affect both financial, environof directors unanimously support Wihlborgs mental and social responsibility. This is very much a case of how Sustainability Report for the year 2011. we actually act – and to raise the profile of these issues we have developed training packs for all employees, which we call Malmö April 2012 Malmö April 2012 Wihlborgs talks sustainability”. Anders Jarl, Chief Executive Officer The board of Wihlborgs Fastigheter AB Awards and recognition Awards and recognition It is always heartwarming to receive recognition. Our work at Wihlborgs has been acknowledged in several ways in 2011. Which gives us the inspiration to continue developing and intensifying our sustainability efforts. When other people judge us and give us a pat on the back, we know we are doing something right. Here are four acknowledgements we are particularly proud of. Wihlborgs is recommended Wihlborgs wins architecture to ethical investment funds by prize for Regionhuset Swedbank and Nordea In August 2011, the City of Malmö Stadsbyggnadspris architecture award went to the Wihlborgs property Skåneland 1 at Swedbank performs regular analyses to maintain recommendaDockplatsen, more commonly known as Regionhuset. This was tions to their funds and investment management commissions the fourth time a property in the Wihlborgs portfolio has won with sustainability criteria. In late 2010 Wihlborgs received the this prestigious award. The property is GreenBuilding certified news that we continue to be approved for all sustainability and a specific environment programme was used in its developfunds and are also a so called good example . This recommenment. ”Long term sustainability and good architecture are dation is for 2011 and up until the next assessment. In February important building blocks and we feel our Skåneland property 2011, we heard from Nordea that we had been given their fulfils both, says Anders Jarl. highest rating (A) in their ESB (Environmental, Social and Governance) rating. Wihlborgs is awarded a Green Wihlborgs CEO Anders Jarl Star by the GRESB Foundation receives the Speaker of the Year On 1 September, Wihlborgs was the only Swedish property Award from Financial Hearings company to be awarded a Green Star, the highest status given by the GRESB Foundation in Amsterdam (Global Real Estate On the capital market days in Båstad in July 2011 Anders Jarl Sustainability Benchmark). The GRESB Foundation is a global accepted his Speaker of the Year Small Cap Award from association of international investors in which 340 of the Financial Hearings CEO Per-Erik Holmström. The award was biggest property funds and property companies in the world founded in 2002 and the very first winner was Wihlborgs' have each disclosed detailed information on environmental current chair Erik Paulsson. Financial Hearings has been performance within their property portfolio. All companies are organising financial presentations for the capital market for inspected using a model that results in one of four assessments, 18 years and presents a number of awards to the best Swedish where the highest is the so called Green Star. To receive this, presenters each year. The jury includes representatives from a company has to have well developed strategies for measuring news agencies Direkt, SIX and e24, Financial Hearings, Cision, and managing environment related key figures. These companies Hallvarsson & Halvarsson and others. From a sustainability focus on reducing their consumption of resources and improvperspective, it is important for us that the financial information ing energy efficiency performance, and implementing measures that is presented is done as transparently as possible. in a forward-looking way. Wihlborgs Sustainability Report 2011 7 The Property Skåneland 1 at Dockan in Malmö won the 2011 Malmö Stadsbyggnadspris Award and is GreenBuilding certified. Total energy consumption for the property is about 55 kWh/m2 today. Introducing Wihlborgs A joy to work in We concentrate on the Öresund region and on the enterprise sector's need for offices and premises which people enjoy working in and that help companies develop in a positive way. It may sound a touch pretentious but it is not that hard to create work environments with a feel good factor where employees are able to perform to the best of their abilities. You just have to know how. When we start new build or renovation projects, we do this together with successful architects which enables us to create beautiful and practical premises in attractive areas. Our constant aim is to marry modern demands with efficient solutions for our tenants. Here, sustainability issues play a big role – being a modern property company is also about having a modern approach to ethical and environmental issues. Business concept Local involvement Focusing on efficiently functioning sub-markets in the It is important for us to be actively involved in various organisaÖresund region, Wihlborgs aims to own, manage and develop tions and networks. Several of our employees sit on external commercial properties. boards. Today, we are represented on the boards of organisations such as; Fastighetsägarna Syd, Malmö Citysamverkan, Property portfolio as of Medeon, Ideon, Eksploria, Näringslivets Miljöchefer, Solar Region Skåne and Øresundsinstituttet. 31 December 2011 Wihlborgs Fastigheter AB (publ) is the biggest commercial property owner exclusively focused on the Öresund region. We have 247 properties with a combined market value of SEK 18 billion. The total lettable area of these is 1.4 million square metres with a total rental value of SEK 1.6 billion. Helsingborg Geographic investment Our strategy is to be present in locations where we identify the potential for long term growth. Accordingly, Wihlborgs is Lund Copenhagen represented in Malmö, Helsingborg, Lund and Copenhagen with Malmö a head office in Malmö. In each of these locations, we are also geographically concentrated on a number of sub markets, which makes us uniquely able to assure cost efficient management. Wihlborgs Sustainability Report 2011 9 Employees and structure Share information As of 31 December 2011 Wihlborgs had 87 employees, including Wihlborgs is a Swedish public limited company that is listed on four in Denmark. There are 141 companies in the group, the Nasdaq OMX Stockholm. Since 2006 Wihlborgs has been including the parent company. Not all are subsidiaries of the listed on the Nordic Mid Cap list. parent company. We have seven joint ventures in the group, On 31 December 2011 the largest shareholder in Wihlborgs (of which two fall under the parent company). was Brinova Fastigheter AB with 10.1 percent of the outstanding Wihlborgs is structured into the group wide departments of shares. The ten largest Swedish shareholders held 29.2 percent Finance, Purchasing, IT, Communications, Environment and HR and foreign shareholders 37.4 percent. and an operations organisation: Management and Business Development Our Management unit has six administrative managers with clear profit centre responsibility in their Events in 2011 respective geographic administrative areas. Every unit also AA The AGM in April resolved on a 2:1 share split, i.e. one old includes administrators, assistants and caretakers. Business share would be replaced by two new shares. The first Development operates on two fronts: Projects & Development trading day after the split was 23 May. The number of and Transactions. Projects & Development is responsible for outstanding and registered shares had then increased new build and renovation projects and for negotiations. to 76,856,728. Transactions deals with all acquisitions and sales of properties by the Company. AA Wihlborgs acquired a shareholding in the finance Wihlborgs' Group Management consists of the CEO, CFO, company Svensk FastighetsFinansiering AB which offers Property Director, Communication Director and Project and new financing avenues. Development Director. Group Management has overall responsibility for coordinating Wihlborgs' business activities. The executive management group comprises the six property AA During the year Wihlborgs acquired five properties and management executives and Group Management. The Executive divested eight. Management Group has overall responsibility for major strategic issues in business development, transactions, information and AA In August 2011 Wihlborgs submitted its latest Communicaanalysis. tion on Progress in accordance with the UN Global Compact; wihlborgs.se/COP. There were no significant changes in the company during the accounting period up to today's date. The Property Polisen 3 in Helsingborg. GreenBuilding certified since June 2011. About our sustainability report Ten principles that have become a matter of principle for us This is Wihlborgs' first sustainability report. Five years ago our sustainability work was mostly focused on environment issues, but we gradually realised that our social responsibility was also of interest. When we were asked if we had signed up to the Global Compact and worked in accordance with its ten principles, we realised that this was something we naturally ought to do, and wondered why we had not signed up earlier. Perhaps because we viewed ourselves as being restricted to the Öresund region and mainly viewed the Global Compact as a tool for multinational companies. But that was then. We quickly established a CSR group when we realised the importance of coordinated sustainability work. About our sustainability report Our sustainability report covers all our business operations in illustration right (point B). The report also describes sustainSweden and Denmark, Wihlborgs Fastigheter AB and all our ability work in relation to external stakeholders, in this case 141 subsidiaries. Wihlborgs Fastigheter AB does not own any mainly suppliers and contrators, see illustration point C and D. properties, they all fall under our subsidiary companies. Data The graphic to the right illustrates Wihlborgs' identified generated within the group are we in total control over and we stakeholders. Stakeholders in italics have been involved in can fully influence the outcome, therefore we can take take full our stakeholder dialogue in 2011. For further information on responsibility for this data in the sustainability report, see Wihlborgs’ stakeholder dialogue, see page 16. Wihlborgs Sustainability Report 2011 11 Description of method AA Stakeholder dialogue (page 16) Based on a questionnaire focused on More information can be found at As part of producing this sustainability report, Wihlborgs has sustainability issues, we created a diawihlborgs.com/CSR performed a stakeholder analysis and risk/opportunity analysis. logue with Wihlborgs stakeholders. This dialogue is important for our continued work with sustainability issues and is AA Identification of Wihlborgs' key stakeholders More information based on anyone who is impacted by The CSR group listed potential stakecan be found at wihlborgs.com/CSR or impacts on Wihlborgs as a company holders. After demarcation, this resulted should have a say in our future sustainin seven key stakeholders: Shareholders, ability strategies and even on the Tenants, Municipalities in which we content of our sustainability report. operate, Credit providers, Suppliers/ Contractors, Board and Employees. The graphic below shows all stakeholders. AA Identification of risks More information can be found at and opportunities (page 19) wihlborgs.com/CSR Here too, our starting point was the questions in our questionnaire that was used with our stakeholder dialogue. The questions were reformulated to concern potential risks and at a workshop the CSR group and group executive identified the biggest risk areas for Wihlborgs. Identification of Wihlborgs' key stakeholders * = Key stakeholders A. Society in general Municipalities* Neighbours Stakeholder organisations Networks Media Schools/Universities Legislators Authorities Citizens Auditors B. Wihlborg Fastigheter AB Employees* Board* Contracted personnel C. The supplier chain Suppliers* Contractors* Credit providers* Sub contractors D. The value chain Tenants* Sub-letting tenants Shareholders* Employees of tenants Sponsorship recipients About our sustainability report Reporting Our accounting year is the calendar year and the reporting cycle is for the whole year. The report (B+) covers the period 1 January– 31 December 2011. The next sustainability report will be published in April 2013. We believe the sustainability report meets the requirements for application level B+, which has been confirmed by a third party, TEM. An external audit of our sustainability report in accordance with GRI has been performed by Deloitte. The auditors' report is on page 47. To a certain degree, we have also chosen to apply the recently developed guidelines for the construction and property sector, the Construction and Real Estate Sector Supplement (CRE.1). We have used the most recent version of GRI in this report, i.e. G3.1. In the GRI Index on page 42 the link between G3.1, CRE.1 and ISO 26 000 is presented. The sustainability report has been printed in a limited number of copies in Swedish and English. It is primarily available to download from the Wihlborgs website from 20 April 2012, www.wihlborgs.com/About-Wihlborgs/CSR-Sustainableenterprise/Sustainability-Report-2011/ under Publications. If you have any questions or views on the report, please contact any member of the Wihlborgs CSR group, for contact details, please see page 53. Application level of report A A+ C+, B+ and A+ mean that the report must be audited by an external party. B B+ Present all points Same requirements as level B for level C and 1.2 C 3.9–3.13 C+ 4.5–4.13, 4.16–4.17 Information on Report Information on sustainability management 1.1 sustainability management for for each indicator category G3 Standard information 2.1–2.10 3.1–3.8, 3.10–3.12 each indicator category 4.1–4.4, 4.14–4.15 Report at least Information on profile 20 results indicators and Not required Report each core indicator at least one from each: in G3 and each sector specific* Financial impact, indicator with regard to Information on environmental impact, the materiality principle sustainability management human rights, Report at least by either a) reporting indicator employment conditions 10 results indicators and information orb) explaining and working conditions, at least one from each: the reasons for not reporting the organisation's Results indicators and Social, financial and role in society, sector specific results indicators environmental impact product responsibility. * = Sector specific supplement in final version Wihlborgs Sustainability Report 2011 13 The Property Skåneland 1 at Dockan in Malmö. Region Skånehuset was awarded the Malmö Stadsbyggnadspris in 2011 and is GreenBuildning certified. Governance, undertakings and commitments The Property Terminalen 1 in Helsingborg. A hub for thousands of daily commuters and a terminal for ferries, trains and city and regional buses. Wihlborgs Sustainability Report 2011 15 Many of us play a part in managing Wihlborgs Not just the board, shareholders and management groups. As part of our everyday work, we engage in an ongoing dialogue with our stakeholders. It is important for us to be aware that our tenants, suppliers and other stakeholders have expectations of a company like Wihlborgs. The values on which our business operations are based should not be open to question, while at the same time, we must always be receptive to opinions that can improve our understanding of new insights, new responsibilities and new ways of managing our operations. Framework The board and CEO Wihlborgs is a listed company that is subject to rules and The Wihlborgs board is charged with managing the company regulations on corporate governance that are made up of in the best interests of the shareholders for a satisfactory long various laws. In addition to legislation, there is the Swedish term return on capital, in accordance with set rules of procedure. Code of Corporate Governance and stock exchange rules. The board comprises eight members, of whom six are indeBusiness operations are subject to monitoring and inspection pendent of the company. Two members are considered to be by external auditors and the Swedish Financial Supervisory non-independent, namely the chair Erik Paulsson on account Authority and Nasdaq OMX Stockholm. of Brinova's shareholding in Wihlborgs and Anders Jarl who is the CEO of Wihlborgs. In view of the company’s size, Wihlborgs does not have separate audit and remuneration committees. Shareholder power To monitor developments in the credit market, Wihlborgs has an The Annual General Meeting (AGM) is the highest decisionmaking interest rate committee which meets each month and presents body. Every shareholder has the right to participate in the AGM reports and proposals to the board. It is the responsibility of and raise various issues. One of the many important duties of the board and group management to ensure that work in areas the AGM is to elect members of the board of the company. The such as: environment, work environment, review of ethical AGM also resolves on guidelines for remuneration to the CEO guidelines, social responsibility and sustainable development is and leading decision makers. The company's auditors check performed in line with the rules, strategies and goals that have that these guidelines are adhered to. Information on the annual been established. This responsibility also includes presenting a general meetings is available at the Wihlborgs website. sustainability report in accordance with GRI. This report is to be Governance, undertakings and commitments performed at B+ level and will integrate Wihlborgs The stakeholders were not expected to respond in areas they Communication on Progress in line with Global Compact did not feel were relevant, or they did not have any knowledge of. principles. For more information on the procedures for good corporate governance with regard to the board's qualifications, Social responsibility procedures and processes, please see Wihlborgs Corporate Governance Report, Annual Report 2011 page 122. The board's 1 Child labour, forced labour and other human rights issues. work is assessed annually and every two years, board members 2 The right to organise and collective bargaining, equal pay for are required to complete an indepth questionnaire designed to equal work determine what changes need to be made in the work done 3 Management/relationships with employees by the board. 4 Safe working environment 5 Diversity and non-discrimination Group management 6 Training and development of employees Wihlborgs' group management has the overall responsibility for 7 Ability to recruit and retain talented employees managing the company, and the CEO, who is a board member, 8 Social and environment related demands on suppliers reports directly to the Wihlborgs board. With regard to sustain9 Good relations and approach in locations where we operate ability issues, we have established an internal CSR group that 10 Quality of Wihlborgs premises deals with these issues and whose responsibilities also include engaging company employees. 11 Customer service Leading decision makers are not entitled to bonuses, for more Environment information, see note 7 in the Wihlborgs Annual Report 2011. 12 Energy consumption Corporate Governance Report 13 Emissions (carbon dioxide and other GHG) The Corporate Governance Report in full can be downloaded from 14 Waste management the Wihlborgs website and is included in the 2011 Annual Report. 15 Water consumption 16 Non toxic environments in buildings Important responses from people 17 Environment classification/certification of buildings who are important to us 18 Transport adapted to the environment As part of our everyday work, we engage in an ongoing dialogue with our stakeholders. We have had directed communication Financial responsibility with certain stakeholders on several occasions, e.g. via our 19 Financial performance biennial employee questionnaires and our satisfied customer 20 Wihlborgs recommended to ethical investment funds index. The results are evaluated and appropriate actions taken. When we first started working on the sustainability report Company management we discovered that we had never done an analysis of stakeholders based purely on sustainability data. We therefore estab21 Transparency lished a dialogue with key stakeholders to find out what issues 22 Risk and crisis management they felt were important for Wihlborgs' sustainability work. 23 Corporate governance The Wihlborgs CSR group formulated 27 questions within 24 Continuous dialogue with stakeholders the areas of social and financial responsibility and company 25 Membership of Global Compact management. These questions were based on a combination of our operations and the guidance available in the Global 26 Wihlborgs' internal ethical guidelines Reporting Initiative. We also decided to include the ten 27 Communication of Wihlborgs CSR/GRI reporting principles in the UN Global Compact. We now intend to organise this type of dialogue with our key stakeholders at regular intervals. We believe that the more established Results of stakeholder dialogue Wihlborgs sustainability work becomes, the greater the The findings resulted in a materiality analysis that showed response rate. In the long term, we hope to be able to expand which issues Wihlborgs' key stakeholders felt were the most this dialogue to include all stakeholders. important for Wihlborgs to work with and report on. The chart below illustrates the analysis results from an internal and an Stakeholder dialogue questions external perspective. The stakeholder groups Employees and The participating stakeholders were asked to choose which Board represent the internal perspective, the stakeholders areas they felt were Very important, Important and Not important. Shareholders, Tenants, Municipalities where we operate, Credit Wihlborgs Sustainability Report 2011 17 providers and Suppliers/Contractors represent the external respondents per question. perspective. For a description of the method, see page 11. AA ”Wihlborgs signing the UN Global Compact” generally had a slightly lower value. In contrast, we noted that 40 percent of Very important our suppliers felt that Wihlborgs signing the Global Compact EXTERNAL 4 1.8 16 was Very important . We hope and believe that this is due 14 13 1 12 11 to the investigative work we have initiated with respect to 1.6 5 6 10 our suppliers (see page 20, risk no 9). 7 3 15 8 21 22 9 24 17 23 AA The five most prioritised areas in internal order: 1.4 18 2 19 26 1) Safe working environment, 2) Customer service, 3) Non toxic environments in buildings, 4) Child labour and other human 1.2 20 rights issues and 5) Quality of Wihlborgs premises. 27 In earlier surveys, customer service was an issue that 1.0 was regularly rated Very important by everyone in the company, and the same was the case in this survey. This 0.8 25 goes hand in hand with the quality of Wihlborgs premises, both areas that are very closely linked to our core business. 0.6 85 percent felt that a safe working environment was Very important . We can deduce that the group most 0.4 highly represented in Non toxic environments in buildings , Not important is the tenants, which is not in itself surprising. The investEXTERNAL 0.2 ment we are making in environment classification of 0.2 0.4 0.5 0.8 1.0 1.2 1.4 1.6 1.8 buildings is proving to be a timely initiative. The average Not important Very important results for these areas were in the 1.6–1.9 range. INTERNAL INTERNAL AA The five least prioritised areas in internal order: The analysis reflects the responses from 82 stakeholders. A total 1) Global Compact, 2) Wihlborgs recommended to ethical of 224 questionnaires were sent out. The largest group that investment funds, 3) Communication of Wihlborgs responded were employees at Wihlborgs, the second highest corporate social responsibility/GRI reporting, 4) Transport response rate was from the participating municipalities. adapted to the environment and 5) Continuous dialogue We believe the results of the survey are reasonable and with stakeholders. relevant to a certain degree. However, in view of the response The fact that certain stakeholders view Wihlborgs signing of rate our dialogue generated, the results probably do not fully the Global Compact as less important can be due to their not reflect the report in total. In our CSR group we have therefore knowing what it contains, which also happens to reflect the put great emphasis on the areas we feel Wihlborgs has good areas that got the highest marks on average. potential to improve. That the recommendation to ethical investment funds was We expect greater participation with time, and that increased not accorded a higher priority can be due to not many people participation from all stakeholders will also mean the dialogue being aware of the funds that are available today. becomes increasingly significant for what we report. Based on Communication related to Wihlborgs' sustainability report the data from 2011, we still feel the information we received was given 1.2 points on average, which is not surprising. That has been of great benefit to us. We have been able to use the average is relatively high per se, and an area that we believe will material to focus on similarities and differences between become more important in the years to come and in line with responses, something we see as a factor that will help Wihlborgs future sustainability reports. continued development within the entire sustainability area. Transport adapted to the environment is an area we have focused on over the years, but this is not a significant environSummary of the results mental aspect for us and as such, we do not attach any great significance to the position the area has been accorded here. AA The majority of internal and external stakeholders feel It is surprising that the dialogue with our stakeholders was that all areas are Very important or Important . Only not given a higher priority, but on the other hand, the average one question was below the 1.0 value. The external group mark of 1.3 given to this area still suggests there is interest in answered Not important to 13 questions. On average continued communication. The average results for these five two respondents answered each question. Internally, nine areas were in the 0.9–1.3 range. questions were marked Not important , an average of 1.8 Sustainability targets with risks and opportunities The Property Ubåten 2 in Malmö. This property houses SVT's state of the art new premises consisting of 5,000 m 2 of space over three floors. Wihlborgs Sustainability Report 2011 19 Viewing risks as something positive A risk is always a risk, but a risk is also something you can grasp and develop into something positive. We have reformulated our ten biggest potential risks More information can be found at into concrete short term and long term sustainability targets. wihlborgs.com/CSR Starting from our fundamental values, to be particular about the kind of company we are and wish to be – and live up to this. The ten biggest potential risks have been formulated into concrete short and long term sustainability targets. Short term targets =1–5 years, Long term = > 5. Wihlborgs' potential risks have been identified in terms of the company's main impact. This is Wihlborgs' first analysis of sustainability risks and opportunities. This also means that the table will be developed over time. Until they are achieved, the targets will remain unchanged in the table, however it is highly probable that we will develop and specify the content even further. No. Potential risk Business What is Wihlborgs Target (short Short Long Area term term opportunity doing today? or long term) 1. Contaminated site Can be prevented by greater Property and contaminated Survey properties where X X Environcaused by tenant awareness of tenant business site details held on an internal business activities can conment business activities. risks. database. Routine surveys taminate site. Ensure MIFO when acquiring property. inspections are performed and obtain minutes of such. The target is zero tolerance. 2. Wihlborgs has a The sustainability report We currently keep a sporadic To create a systematic way of X Company negative image in acts as an invitation to our eye on what is written about monitoring social media commanagesocial media. stakeholders to engage in a Wihlborgs in social media. munication and procedures ment dialogue with us and provides for this in future. an opportunity to hear views and opinions that can help us develop further. 3. Financial risks See Wihlborgs Annual Report X X Finance page 81. Sustainability targets with risks and opportunities No. Potential risk Business What is Wihlborgs Target (short Short Long Area term term opportunity doing today? or long term) 4. An emergency arises Develop a more comprehenProcedures in place for Produce a written crisis manX Company that is not covered sive plan for crisis manageinternal health and safety agement plan in 2012. manageby the current crisis ment. inspections and physical risks. ment management plan. Contact paths available to Company Healthcare. 5. Some form of Continue with our strategic Business ethics are continuZero tolerance. Both short x x Company corruption emerges work within business ethics. ously discussed within the term and long term statistics managewithin Wihlborgs. Adhere to transparency even company, e.g. via Wihlborgs are to be kept on possible ment when cases are publicised. talks sustainability. The ethics known cases. guidelines were updated in August 2011, focus bribes. 6. The company is Our sustainability report offers Information on the company Increase dialogue with our x Company perceived as being an opportunity to present is available in the sustainabilstakeholders. External feedmanagenon-transparent. a transparent image of the ity report, annual report and back is important in helping ment company. quarterly reports. us pick up on areas where we currently perhaps provide too little information. 7. Wihlborgs losing Systematic visits to our cusWe currently perform cusThe target is to achieve 100% x Social credibility in customer tomers. Continuous training tomer satisfaction surveys satisfaction in the surveys index. of employees, including on every two years. that are performed. our values. Identify additional tools for measuring customer satisfaction. 8. Energy consumption Link energy consumption more Energy consumption data are From 2012 energy statisx Environin comparable closely with financial manageincluded in a statistics protics are to be reported to ment property stock ment. gram. We have a number of Wihlborgs' quarterly meetincreases. energy saving projects each ings. Over the next three year. Energy is integrated into years, we will monitor kWh new build projects. We have in comparable properties. employees who are expert See Wihlborgs environment in this area. targets 2012–2014 page 34. 9. Wihlborgs lacks Improve current monitoring Wihlborgs signs 1 year conSuppliers classified as high x x Social appropriate methods system to show transparency tracts. Supplier answers quesrisk given up to 2 years to to make social and and comparability between tions on environment, quality, demonstrate positive environment related our suppliers. work environment and ethics. changes. If, despite requests evaluations of our Purchasing manager performs to do so, little improvement suppliers and a risk assessment. When reneshown, new contracts will contractors. gotiating contracts, supplier not be signed with the has opportunity to improve if supplier from 2014. See also we have complaints. Approved environment targets supp included in Wihlborgs 2012–2014 page 34. app (see page 39) for orders. 10. Wihlborgs is Sustainability report explains Information is mainly In the long term, to talk more x x Company perceived as unclear how we aim to be sustainably available today via our with our stakeholders to gain managein its external profitable in our core business. website and in our annual external feedback that enables ment communication The sustainability report report. us to pick up on the areas related to what our invites our stakeholders to where we currently provide company stands engage in a dialogue with us too little information. To for within all and provides an opportunity identify long term quantifiable sustainability areas. to hear views that can help us key figures. That more of us in develop further. We can also the company feel secure, in the get better at communicating short and long term, commuthis in coming recruitment nicating ”sustainability” related campaigns. to our own working area. Wihlborgs Sustainability Report 2011 21 The Property Sparven 15 in Malmö. Former Televerket premises now home to computer games company Ubisoft. Financial responsibility Sustainable finances enable sustainable strategies Everything is interconnected. A profitable Wihlborgs is vital if we are to be able to realise our strategies and reach our targets. This also applies to our sustainability work that we are integrating with the financial targets set by the board for our company. It is self evident to us that our brand stands for sound values and that we need to be financially responsible if we are to take responsibility for the part we play in the development of society. Under the Swedish Companies Act, other legislation and enhance our chances of becoming first choice when leases are regulations, the listing agreement with the Nasdaq OMX to be signed. We have launched a dialogue with our stakeExchange, Swedish Code of Corporate Governance, the holders where we list issues that they consider to be the most company’s Articles of Association and internal instruments important. If we are to meet the expectations of our stakeof governance, the management and responsibilities of the holders, it is important that Wihlborgs' financial targets are Wihlborgs group are divided between the board and CEO. maintained. The value we create comes from our rental income. Part of Wihlborgs' overall goals and strategies is that the The dialogue with our stakeholders also suggests that important company is to be the leading and most profitable property comareas Wihlborgs needs to take into account include the quality pany on the Öresund market. To achieve this goal, Wihlborgs is of our premises and the customer service we deliver. Without to consolidate and further strengthen its market positions in satisfied customers, we cannot achieve our rental income the Öresund region by concentrating on various regional markets. targets. Rental income also affects the changes in value of our We shall actively improve our property portfolio by the acquisiproperties. Income should give our employees, loan providers, tion, development and sale of properties. We shall also manage society and suppliers a share in the value we create. Our shareour property portfolio with the focus on good cost efficiency holders should also share this value via dividends resolved on and high occupancy rates. Our customer relationships are to be by the board in a dividend policy. The size of the dividend is enhanced by active commitment and a high level of service. dependent on the property management performance the Through our activities and our set targets and strategies, we company delivers and the sales level that is achieved on affect the communities where we operate. As such we must completed property transactions. When all stakeholders have also accept an overall responsibility for our environmental received their share, the remainder is retained to strengthen impact and find strategies for all areas in which we impact on our business, create new projects and acquire new properties the environment. Our sustainability work is to be integrated to grow the company sustainably. with the financial targets set by the board for our company. Information on Wihlborgs financial position can be found in If we manage to do so, this will boost our brand, which should the annual report, pages 87 –98. Wihlborgs Sustainability Report 2011 23 EC 1 The Property Polisen 1 in Helsingborg, where the District Court is one of the tenants. Created and distributed 2011 2010 Comments Created and distributed 2011 2010 Comments financial value, MSEK financial value, MSEK Directly created value Distributed financial value Income 1,445 1,294 Rental income Employees 68 64 Salaries, social insurance costs Changes in values of properties 515 551 Loan providers 358 281 Interest costs Changes in value derivatives -336 52 Society 71 67 Property tax Other income 13 3 Other income incl. and VAT interest income Suppliers 305 281 Total directly 1,637 1,900 created value, MSEK Shareholders 269 260 Dividend to shareholders Taxes paid 170 285 Total distributed value, 1,241 1,238 MSEK Carried forward in the 396 662 company Return on shareholders 12.3 19.0 equity % Target % 7.2 8.9 Environmental responsibility To grow by shrinking It sounds like a contradiction in terms, but it actually summarises how we view Wihlborgs from a broaderperspective. Being a large property owner means that we have a big carbon footprint in several different respects. Energy consumption is our biggest environment impact and the energy needs of our properties are the equivalent of 6,116 single family homes. With energy efficiency measures, with GreenBuilding, with green leases, with a car policy that specifies green cars and – not least – with clear environment targets for the whole company – we feel we are working as hard as we can to reduce our carbon footprint even further. We are growing intelligently at the same time. Wihlborgs' environment related responsibility is based on our: The trend shows that our consumption increased in the past Ethical guidelines, Environment Policy and current Environment year, expressed in kilowatt hours. This rise is due to divesting EN 3 targets. The policy and targets have been set by our employees properties with lower kWh/m2 compared to the properties we and environment director, and ratified by Wihlborgs managehave acquired (and owned for at least one year). For a property ment and board. to be included in the energy statistics we report, we need a Wihlborgs' operations are subject to Swedish and Danish reference year from which our energy application can obtain legislation. To live up to the precautionary principle and key figures. In other words, a property must have been owned environment legislation is a minimum requirement for our by Wihlborgs for at least the whole of 2010 to be included in environment work. To ensure we comply with applicable legal the report for 2011. We estimate that approximately 6 percent requirements in the environment area, we subscribe to an is not included in the report, ie. 16 properties. We are awere external database that is continuously updated with new that this does not give a complete transparent picture of our legislation in our area of operation. energy consumption since the whole portfolio is not included. We also perform regular environment risk analyses which in This consupmtion is also used in the table wich shows energy many cases reflect the environment areas that concern us from consumption per square meter, although the whole portfolio a legal compliance perspective. Page 85 of the Wihlborgs Annual has been included in the lettable area. This means that the Report 2011 contains further information. consupmtion of kWh/sqm is slightly higher than what we present on the next page. We are not talking about From 2012 we are introducing a new procedure based on around 70 percent of Wihlborgs' property portfolio being an average family house included in an environment target group where the areas will A typical Swedish family house built in the 1950's or 60's uses also be comparable over the years. For more information please 25,000 kWh of energy in a year. In our case, we are talking see the section on our environment targets 2012–2014 on about 152,904,868 kWh, not 25,000, which means that between page 34. We can see a marked reduction in energy consumption them, our properties use as much energy as 6,116 family homes in 2010 compared with 2009. The phasing out of oil was one or 152,905 MWh. There is no doubt that our biggest environment of the explanations for this. We also implemented a number of impact is our energy consumption. larger energy efficiency projects in 2010. Please see right for our three year heating, electricity, cooling, Our biggest energy suppliers are represented by Vattenfall, oil and gas figures. This also shows Wihlborgs' total consumption. E.ON, Öresundskraft and Lunds Energi. The proportion of Wihlborgs will present energy figures for the past three years energy from renewable sources and the main components of including the reporting year in all future sustainability reports. these, are presented on page 26. Wihlborgs Sustainability Report 2011 25 EN 4 The development of Fören is in full flow. Fören will be GreenBuilding certified and environment certified to the Miljöbyggnad certification system. The property will be given a silver classification. Total energy consumption kWh – Electricity, heating, cooling, gas, oil Electricity Gas 2009 56,457,182 2009 11,855,528 2010 52,796,847 2010 12,032,705 2011 54,060,465 2011 6,329,694 2011 District cooling Oil 2009 6,355,161 2009 317,099 Total kWh 2011 152,904,868 2010 6,049,726 2010 0 2011 5,747,245 2011 0 District heating Total area 2010 2009 2009 87,274,010 2010 78,496,901 2011 86,767,464 m2 2009 1,269,193 2010 1,369,064 2011 1,365,170 All kWh in this report can be converted to Megajoules (MJ); by multiplying the kWh figure by 3.6. Total kWh 2010 149,376,179 Total kWh 2009 162,258,980 Environmental responsibility Energy suppliers Percentage renewable Main kinds of energy District District ElecElecDistrict heating % District % heating cooling tricity 1 tricity cooling Vattenfall 1001 Water – – Supplier Malmö, Helsingborg and Lund. E.ON 45 64 – – SYSAV 2 48 Electricity for 100 Supplier Malmö. Öresundsverket 27 heat pumps Natural gas 18 Ind. Waste to energy 3 5 Oil 3 Heat pump 4 0 Solar panels 5 0 Lunds Energi 71 25 – – Heat pumps 6 25 Electricity 100 Supplier Lund. Biofuel 21 Natural gas 20 Electricity for heat pumps 12 Industrial waste to energy 9 Nordic Sugar Recycled wood 6 Pellets 3 Bought heating 3 Biogas 0.4 Öresundskraft 84 25 – – Wood pellets 46 Electricity7 100 Supplier Helsingborg Waste to energy 26 Natural gas 11 Heat pumps 6 Electricity for heat pumps 3 Landfill gas 3 Oil 2 Auxiliary electricity 2 Hot water purchased 1 from other district heating companies 1 The electricity Wihlborgs is buying in 2010–2012 is called EPD-el and consists of 100% hydroelectricity. EPD Environmental Product Declaration – is a registered environmental product declaration certified by AB Svenska Miljöstyrningsrådet with quality assured data on the likes of resource consumption, emissions, waste and recycling. 2 85% of Sysav's supply is classed as renewable. 3 100% of industrial waste to energy is classed as renewable. 4 89% of the heat pump energy is classed as renewable. This is given as 0% because the amount of energy from this source is minimal in relation to the total percentage. 5 This is given as 0% because the amount of energy from this source is minimal in relation to the total percentage. 6 Proportion of renewable energy for auxiliary electricity to heat pumps is 25%. The heat pumps produce cooling and heating at the same time. 7 Cooling equipment using Nordic mixed electricity . From Sept. 2011 Bra Miljöval el. The above figures are based on the suppliers' own declarations In many cases, the relatively low total consumption per on their energy products in 2010. The procedure we have now square metre figure is because this includes all our properties, adopted is to obtain data from the previous year as exact including e.g. facilities with large cold storage space. If, on the figures are not supplied until the end of March/April which is other hand, you look at our environment targets related to too late for us to use in our calculations. kWh/m2, the figure will be significantly higher. See Wihlborgs The table above does not report the values in Denmark. environment targets 2012–2014 page 34. However we hope to be able to include these in next year's We take a holistic approach to energy efficiency. Here too, report. It is also important for us to maintain a dialogue with our energy statistics application plays a big role. We use the our biggest energy suppliers to help persuade them to include statistics application E4 SQL that enables us to monitor heating, more energy from renewable sources in their products. electricity, water and cooling. Wihlborgs uses the application to Wihlborgs operates in the Öresund region with investments identify potential energy saving projects/costs savings and to in Malmö, Helsingborg, Lund and Copenhagen. Our total energy manage consumption in all our properties. consumption in 2011 expressed in kWh/m2 and location is When it comes to deciding which properties to make more presented on the next page. efficient, our first step is to calculate the current energy status Wihlborgs Sustainability Report 2011 27 kWh per location and square metre. 113,873 m2 Copenhagen 504,403 m2 Helsingborg 40 Electricity kWh m2 32 Heating kWh m2 90 27 Electricity kWh m2 81 Heating kWh m2 110 0 Cooling kWh m2 18 Gas kWh m2 Total kWh m2 2 Cooling kWh m2 0.2 Gas kWh m2 Total kWh m2 128,454 m2 Lund 42 Electricity kWh m2 40 Heating kWh m2 102 13 Cooling kWh m2 7 Gas kWh m2 Total kWh m2 618,440 m2 Malmö 49 Electricity kWh m2 60 Heating kWh m2 120 EN 5, CRE 1 5 Cooling kWh m2 5 Gas kWh m2 Total kWh m2 of the property, and then calculate how much energy is used in Energy efficiency improvements relation to area. We then produce an action plan with efficiency measures including costs etc. In the following case, we present an energy efficiency drive we implemented in our existing port574,830 folio in the second half of 2011. A tenant asked us if together, we could do something to 468,617 reduce electricity and heating energy consumption in the property. Electricity was not included in the rent. An initial step, as usual, was to perform an energy survey of the property. 286,378 The property, Väktaren 1, currently has window fan heating and cooling. This is a relatively unusual system and Väktaren 1 is 201,654 the only Wihlborgs property that has this. Based on the survey, we were able to deduce potential savings by needs managing the system. kWh Before After Before After To do this, we modified the control system to enable better management of the ventilation and of the lighting in the garage Heating Electricity and to an extent in the atrium. The investment cost for the project was SEK 500,000 that Wihlborgs funded in full. Energy bills for tenants in the property will be the same as previously This corresponds to a financial saving of SEK 140,374 over six for the next three years instead. After which time, they will months (July–December 2011). Expressed in terms of energy reap the benefits as the actual costs will then be lower. Which consumption per family home, the total savings to date correall adds up to a win/win/win: for tenants, Wihlborgs and the spond to the annual energy used by four single family houses. environment. The illustration to the right shows the savings: Environmental responsibility You need to look at the whole picture 8 There is more to being a property company than simply keeping or 133 ton CO2. This is because in 2011, we considerably reduced track of the energy consumption of company properties from an losses of cooling media. Scope 2 declined by 1 percent or 121 tons environmental perspective (even though energy consumption of CO2, of which the biggest reduction was achieved in Denmark. in our properties is the biggest part of our carbon footprint). Scope 3 increased by 19 percent, mainly because of higher Through our properties, we affect the communities where we emissions from transport of waste. This was partly traceable operate and so we also need to accept an overall degree of to a specific property of around 18,000 m2 that was acquired in responsibility for our environmental impact. This means late 2010 and for which we have statistics relating to 2011. identifying strategies for all areas in which we impact the This increase will be subject to further analysis. There is also environment. evidence of a reduction in Scope 3, which is attributable to The graphic below illustrates which areas represent lower emissions from commuting by car. The main reason is Wihlborgs total carbon dioxide emissions, and therefore also that for several years we have been working towards ensuring the areas where we are trying to reduce our carbon footprint. that vehicles in the company fleet meet the Swedish Road The biggest differences between 2010 and 2011 and the Administration’s definition of green cars. The emissions that in explanation for these; Scope 1 has been reduced by 28 percent 2011 were attributable specifically to heating and 2 Scope EN 16, EN 17, EN 29 1 Scope Service vehicles Company cars Cooling media Energy Rail travel Mileage driven on 3Scope company business (privately owned cars) Private cars on business (commuting) Commuting (bicycles etc.) Waste Year Scope 1 Scope 2 Scope 3 Total Ton Ton Ton Ton 2009 453 9,272 82 9,807 2010 469 9,483 85 10,036 2011 336 9,362 101 9,798 8 Calculations to determine environment data have been done with the aid of the GHG (greenhouse gas) protocol, an accounting system used by governments and leading companies to measure carbon dioxide and similar emissions. The GHG protocol has been developed by the World Resources Institute (WRI) and the World Business Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD) in consultation with sector representatives and governments. 9 Scope 1 rose by 3%, this increase was due to increased emissions from specific cooling media. On the other hand, we can see that emissions from company vehicles actually went down by 29 tons CO2 in 2010. Scope 2 rose by 3%, internally, Wihlborgs reduced its energy consumption, while emission factors from electricity, heating and cooling from our energy suppliers had increased. Scope 3 rose by 3%, this increase was generated by air travel and private vehicles on company business and employee travel to and from work. The increase in this scope corresponds to 16 ton CO2. However, we can report a reduction in the waste item that fell by 9 tons CO2between 2009–2010. Wihlborgs Sustainability Report 2011 29 electricity totalled 7,884 tons of CO2. For more information on the differences between years 2009–2010 please see note 9 . Waste In terms of energy used by company cars and service vehicles Waste makes up one area of our carbon dioxide emissions. in 2011 expressed in litres and carbon dioxide, please see below. We produce statistics on the volume of waste and number of More information on the different fuel uses and how this waste collection journeys necessary for our properties. Our affected our emissions can be found under the the heading largest waste collection service provider is SITA. The graphic Transport in this section. below shows the volume of waste in 2011, the amount of hazardous waste and what was recycled during the year. Energy usage 2011, company cars and service vehicles Waste 2011, volume and category 30,174 21,527 153,542 565,047 12 Combustible waste, kg Recycled waste, kg 16,065 7,960 Diesel (lit.) Petrol (lit.) Ethanol (lit.) LPG (m3) 10 720,618 Waste 2011 kg 117 Recalculated as total emissions of CO2 in tons 2,029 EN 22 Hazardous waste, kg 13 The figures are based on statistics from the waste collection Ozone depleting substances service provider. At present, we do not have comparable14 statistics from other waste collection companies, but we hope One area associated with environmental impact that is linked to be able to include these too in the next couple of years. As to the property sector in many cases is cooling media and ozone SITA is our largest supplier accounting for around 60 percent depleting substances used in these. None of our properties uses of our total waste statistics, we consider the above table to be CFCs today. Going back in time, in 2008 we suffered a specific representative. leakage of HCFC that we are in the process of phasing out. Where cooling media need topping up, a specific type, HFC11 is used. 10 Mix of natural gas and biogas. Malmö and Lund 50% of each. Helsingborg 100% biogas from NSR. 11 HFC has replaced CFC because it does not contain chlorine and nor does it liberate chlorine radicals that deplete the ozone layer. 12 Recycled waste in 2011 covers all items except combustible waste. These include; glass, plastic, office paper and newspapers, cardboard, metal packaging and styrofoam. 13 Hazardous waste in 2011 includes electronic scrap, strip lighting and batteries. 14 Equivalent in this case means that we obtain statistical values from the supplier directly. These values present a summary of our entire portfolio. In other cases we get statistics supplied per property level which makes it difficult for us to determine the total and it is also risky to make an assessment ourselves and recalculate the factors. Environmental responsibility The Property Ubåten 2 in Malmö. This is the home of Media Evolution City – the media industry centre for innovation and development. Wihlborgs Sustainability Report 2011 31 Environmental impact – and how we can affect it Environment certification of GreenBuilding properties GreenBuilding is a programme for energy usage rather than EN 6, EN 18, EN 26, CRE 8 an environment classification system as such. A building can In addition to energy consumption, the environmental impact be certified as a new build or via modernisation of an existing of new build projects is one of our most important areas. It property. To be certified in south Sweden a new build property has become increasingly common to certify properties, which must not use more than 75 kWh/m². In the case of modernisaentails an external survey and an objective assessment of how tion, energy consumption must be cut by at least 25 percent environmentally sustainable a building is. When a property is compared to existing usage. approved, the property owner receives a certificate. Depending As of 31 December 2011 two buildings in the Wihlborgs on the certification system, there are also different levels of property portfolio have been GreenBuilding certified. One of classification of the certificate. these properties, the Region Skåne building at Dockan, was In the case of renovations and new builds, environment designed as a GreenBuilding, while the other, Polisen 3 in certification is often about the building as a whole. With new Helsingborg, is part of the existing portfolio. The property was builds, this can mean whether or not you can commute to your able to be classified following modernisation work that reduced workplace by bicycle or public transport. It can also include energy consumption. As of 31 December 2011, two applications what type of land the property owner is developing, such as have been submitted for the certification of the properties whether it is a brownfield or greenfield site. The property Fören at Dockan and Landsdomaren in Lund, which are due to developer is awarded points if it is a brownfield site and be completed in 2012 and 2013 respectively. perhaps also if the site is contaminated and being cleared of GreenBuilding certification also means that we as property toxic substances. A greenfield development receives fewer owner must report back on the status of properties that points as the land has a different value from a land resource are certified. This means we must send property energy perspective. consumption data to SGBC once the building has been occupied There are around a hundred environment certification and for at least 12 months. In spring 2012 Wihlborgs reported current labelling schemes, of which KRAV and the Swan are two of the consumption at both properties. The Region Skåne building best known. GreenBuilding, Miljöbyggnad, BREEAM (Building consumes about 55 kWh/m2 today. The Swedish National Board Research Establishment Environmental Assessment Method) of Housing, Building and Planning requirement for new builds and LEED (Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design) is 90 kWh/m2, which means energy usage at this property are the most common in the property sector. The last two are is 35 kWh/m2 below the legal requirement. The GreenBuilding based on British and American building regulations respectively. requirement is 75 kWh/m2 and on current consumption, Although Swedish versions are in the pipeline, Wihlborgs mainly the property is 20 kWh/m2 more energy efficient than this looks at GreenBuilding and Miljöbyggnad. requirement. Environmental responsibility Polisen 3 in Helsingborg consumes about 88 kWh/m2 today. Before the modernisation work, the property consumed Green leases 185 kWh/m2. 52 percent more energy efficient. The requirement From spring 2012 we will be able to offer our tenants Green on modernisation projects is an efficiency improvement of at leases a concept developed by the Swedish Property Federation. least 25 percent. Wihlborgs point of view is that Green leases meet an important function as they create a platform for cooperation between Miljöbyggnad landlord and tenant with a common goal of reducing the carbon footprint of the property or premises. These leases include Miljöbyggnad is a Swedish system for certifying buildings in activities in areas such as information and cooperation, energy terms of energy, indoor climate and materials. The building is and indoor environment along with choice of materials and subject to a 15 point check, including energy purchased, noise waste management. Green leases are also included in our class, radon content, damp, natural light, integral materials, environment targets with effect from 2012. chemicals and building products. We have recently concluded our environment target of eliminating the use of PCBs. When properties where we are eliminating PCBs were being built, the Transport materials used in the building were not documented in a way Transport is one of the areas where we do have an environment that is now required by Miljöbyggnad for example. This type impact. Transport is governed by our car policy. We have chosen of system makes it easier for us to trace substances that are not to have a general travel policy with regard to business classed as hazardous to the environment and health. Identifying travel. This is because our operations are concentrated on the materials used in their construction in a structured way, will Öresund region. Other business travel is made by air and rail. save both time and money. With the Miljöbyggnad certification In total, there were 118 instances of business travel in 2011, of system, a building can be classified as bronze, silver or gold. which 104 were made by air and 14 by rail, which is a small Miljöbyggnad covers both new builds and existing buildings. number compared with multinational companies. As of 31 December 2011, no Wihlborgs property has been We are very conscious that many services associated with classified in accordance with the Miljöbyggnad system. our properties have a transport element. We have, however, However, preliminary applications have been made for three produced a breakdown of our transport related statistics. properties that are either new builds or being modernised, As such, we collate data on transport linked to our employees. Fören, Landsdomaren and Magasinet. As these properties In our case, this includes; company service vehicles, company are not yet occupied, we do not as yet have any statistics on cars, air travel, rail travel, mileage on company business in possible savings and performance. private cars, commuting to and from the workplace. As energy consumption in our properties is our biggest Choosing certification systems environmental aspect, we have no plans at present to start tracing the transport chains of our various suppliers and As it becomes more and more common in the construction and contractors. We have, however, decided to provide an analysis property sector to environment certify properties, the various of transport in association with waste collection at our certification systems have become the subject of debate. Why properties. This statistical summary will be produced each year choose one system rather than another? We wish to emphasise and is something we as a property owner should keep track of. that all environment classification systems have been developed In 2008 we adopted our car policy, which requires all vehicles for the same purpose, to promote buildings with less environto be green cars. Our green car criteria are as defined by the mental impact. However, they address similar issues in different Swedish Transport Administration. In 2010 we added three ways. The classification system a company or contractor ought electric cars to our fleet and in late 2011 we achieved our target to use, is entirely dependent on what kind of company it is. of all our company and service vehicles being green cars. Our Wihlborgs point of view is that all environment certification vehicle fleet uses the following fuels: petrol, diesel, ethanol, systems fill a function and help the property sector develop LPG and electricity. Between 2008 and 2011 our carbon dioxide in a more environment friendly direction. Wihlborgs is subject emissions have been reduced by 72 tons. to Swedish legislation which is why it is natural for us to look at systems that are developed on a national basis, such as No. of vehicles per type of fuel 2011 e.g. Miljöbyggnad. We introduced an internal environment programme several 30 years ago for new builds that includes a number of criteria from several environment classification systems. We believe cooperation in the sector is the way to achieve sustainable development. 11 Ethanol 3 Electric 6 Petrol 11 Diesel LPG cars Wihlborgs Sustainability Report 2011 33 Tap water only Water is becoming an increasingly important issue from a global perspective. Our properties use water, but compared with energy consumption, our water consumption has a smaller impact on the environment. Our properties are commercial premises where the majority of space comprises offices and storage, which means cold water is mostly consumed. Property companies with mostly residential premises have a completely different consumption pattern in terms of hot water. Does this mean Wihlborgs can ignore the water issue? We need to start a joint discussion on water consumption in relation to the entire property sector. We are currently lacking a similar kind of joint initiative as there are on energy consumption in property stock. Our energy statistics application enables us to deduce water consumption in our properties. The information is obtained from water meters in the properties. The water consumption figures show the consumption of hot and cold water combined. The properties in our portfolio are supplied by communal water. The graphic below shows Wihlborgs total water consumption in m3 and m3/m2 for the last three years: Total water consumption, m3 EN 8, CRE 2 295,955 m 3 280,160 m 3 269,871 m3 2009 2010 2011 0.2 m3 per m2 0.2 m3 per m2 0.2 m3 per m2 Consumption for 2011 was 269,871 m3 or 269,871,000 litres of water. The average person in Sweden uses 180 litres of water per day15 . This means that our properties consume the equivalent amount of water as the annual consumption of 4,107 people. Wihlborgs will present water consumption data for the past three years including the reporting year in all future sustainability reports. We have increased our space between 2009–2011 while water consumption has remained approximately the same. 15 Source: drickkranvatten.se Environmental responsibility Environment targets We set our environmental goals for three-year periods. The goals set for 2009–2011 have now been superseded by new goals for 2012–2014. The goals were established at a workshop in which all employees participated. What is new – beginning in 2012 – is that separate goals linked to environmental impact are set for each of Wihlborgs' different areas of operation. Environment targets 2009–2011 Environment targets 2012–2014 We have produced environment targets for a three year period, In 2011 we assembled all employees at Wihlborgs to jointly which means the previous targets expired in 2011. Our new establish environment targets for Wihlborgs for 2012–2014. The environment targets and our long term vision for 2020, are results were the environment targets on the right hand page. presented on the following pages. Actual for 2011: The goal of reducing total energy consumption by 3 percent was not achieved. Energy consumption for Wihlborgs' entire property portfolio was reduced by one percent, based on a comparable area of 1,086,443 m2 of the Wihlborgs portfolio. This equates to a financial saving of around SEK 1.2 million. EnvironAs far as promoting new innovations and investing in energy from renewable sources are concerned, we set ourselves the goal that two properties within our portfolio would be supplied with some form of renewable energy by 2011. This target has not been achieved. The target will be achieved in part in 2012 mental vision 2020 when the property Fören will be supplied by solar or wind power to a certain extent. Over the past three years, our objectives have included surveying and removing PCBs from properties. In properties built between 1956–1973, PCBs present in sealing compounds Wihlborgs will continue have been eliminated. This goal was achieved. The goal of further training for all employees was attained. to expand but with a smaller As part of the environmental training program, between carbon footprint. ourselves, we developed strategies that are presented for the 2012–2014 period. In recent years, we have also reviewed various IT systems, resulting in lower energy consumption. In terms of the environmental target of reducing print outs, this was achieved in 2011 by introducing double sided printing as standard. We have also installed FollowMe printing which means the user has to actively choose to print the job while standing at the printer. Several surveys have shown that paper consumption is reduced by up to 30 percent when FollowMe printing is installed. Wihlborgs Sustainability Report 2011 35 1. MANAGEMENT & OPERATIONS YEAR 2012 YEAR 2013 YEAR 2014 1.1 Energy efficiency kWh/m 2 Average energy consumption in Average energy consumption in Average energy consumption in Wihlborgs properties should not Wihlborgs properties should not Wihlborgs properties should not exceed 150 kWh/m2 for properties exceed 145 kWh/m2 for properties exceed 140 kWh/m2 for properties included in environment targets.* included in environment targets.* included in environment targets.* 1.2 Green leases All new and re-negotiated leases are In all renegotiations scheduled to In all renegotiations scheduled to to include a green lease appendix. take place in 2012, 100% will be take place in 2013, 100% will be Wihlborgs will start using the leases offered the opportunity to sign green offered the opportunity to sign green when the Swedish Property Federation leases. leases. launches its standard lease agreement, which is expected to be in spring 2012. 1.3 Environment classification of Wihlborgs to environment classify Wihlborgs to environment classify at Wihlborgs to environment classify at existing portfolio (GreenBuilding + at least one property in the existing least three properties in the existing least five properties in the existing Miljöbyggnad) portfolio. portfolio. portfolio. 2. LETTING, INFO. YEAR 2012 YEAR 2013 YEAR 2014 & COMMUNICATION16 2.1 Environmental prospectus when In 2012, an environment prospectus In 2013, an environment prospectus In 2014, an environment prospectus viewing premises is to be available for 10% of the is to be available for 20% of the is to be available for 50% of the Wihlborgs property portfolio when Wihlborgs property portfolio when Wihlborgs property portfolio when showing premises. showing premises. showing premises. 3. BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT. YEAR 2012 YEAR 2013 YEAR 2014 & PROJECTS 3.1 Environment classification of In 100% of new builds started by In 100% of new builds started by In 100% of new builds started by new builds Wihlborgs of a minimum of 500 m2 Wihlborgs of a minimum of 500 m2 Wihlborgs of a minimum of 500 m2 are to be environment classified. are to be environment classified. are to be environment classified. 4. PURCHASING YEAR 2012 YEAR 2013 YEAR 2014 4.1 Procedures purchasing Everyone who signs an operations On the basis of risk assessments from New agreements will not be signed & negotiation and supply agreement with previous years, Wihlborgs will assess with suppliers/contractors in risk Wihlborgs in 2012 will be subject to suppliers classed as risk level 3. class 3. a CSR assessment. This assessment Further agreements will be will include environment care, work conditional on positive changes being environment and ethics. achieved. 5. TRANSACTIONS & ANALYSIS YEAR 2012 YEAR 2013 YEAR 2014 5.1 Environment assessment when The current environmental procedure 100% of Wihlborgs transactions 100% of Wihlborgs transactions purchasing properties on purchases and sales of properties documented in the environment documented in the environment will be reviewed and updated. This is index. index. intended to produce an environment index for the acquisition of properties. 6. ADMINISTRATION & IT YEAR 2012 YEAR 2013 YEAR 2014 6.1 Energy statistics online Initiate a procedure to be able to offer Energy statistics for 10% of our Energy statistics for 50% of our our tenants the opportunity to obtain properties available at the Wihlborgs properties available at the Wihlborgs energy statistics from the Wihlborgs website. website. website. 6.2 EDI Invoicing 20% of Wihlborgs invoices from its 35% of Wihlborgs invoices from its 50% of Wihlborgs invoices from its suppliers are to be invoiced via EDI. suppliers are to be invoiced via EDI. suppliers are to be invoiced via EDI. * By this we mean properties included in environmental targets, which is approximately 70% of the entire Wihlborgs portfolio where there is potential for energy savings in the 2012–2014 period. This means that if we had included all properties, we would have had a significantly lower figure for kWh/m 2. This can also be deduced from the figures expressed in kWh/m2/location earlier in this chapter. These figures also include properties with large cold storage facilities with little potential to reduce energy consumption. This also means that we can continue to work with properties based on a comparable portfolio in m 2. Our new procedure means that from 2012, everyone on the administration side at Wihlborgs will have individual key figures which are also very important for the overall target. 16 Our Environmental prospectus will contain information on the environmental impact of the property, which letting managers at Wihlborgs can present to potential tenants when viewing premises. This can include information on how the property is heated or other climate control systems. If the building is environment classified, already cleared of contaminants being phased out etc. Social responsibility It should be part of our way of thinking At Wihlborgs we view job satisfaction as one of the most important factors in achieving good results and success. Which is why we make sure our employees are aware of and help deliver the targets the company sets. As an employee, you should expect to develop and grow within the company and share our success in the form of a profit share fund. Our door is also open to college and university students whom we always welcome to gain work experience. But no company is an island. We also keep an eye on our suppliers and we will be keeping a LA 3 tighter check on their business operations to ensure that nothing clashes with our own values. The decisions we make and the way we act should always be in line with our ethical guidelines. And if they do not, we all have an individual responsibility to remind each other what Wihlborgs stands for and should stand for. Wihlborgs corporate social responsibility is based on its; Ethical guidelines, Work Environment Policy, Equal Opportunities Number of employees Policy, Pay Policy, Personnel Policy, Company Car Policy and At year-end, Wihlborgs had 87 employees, of whom 60 worked Purchasing Policy. All governing documents are resolved at in administration and 27 were collective agreement employees. executive management level. 79 employees work full time (24 women, 55 men) and eight part time (seven women, one man). There are 15 managers in the Employees company, of whom six are women. 36 (35) percent of employees in the group are women. The Wihlborgs board consists of Our employees are an important factor in Wihlborgs success. eight directors, of whom three are women. At year-end 2011 Their know-how, qualifications and professional expertise are Wihlborgs had no temporary staff. valuable assets. As such, it is important to ensure we offer a work environment that is attractive and helps them develop. Every other year, an employee survey is conducted to gauge Employee turnover the working climate. The most recent survey was done in winter Employee turnover in 2011 was 8.1 percent. Seven employees left 2010. This revealed an Employee Satisfaction Index rating of 3.4 Wihlborgs in 2011, of whom three retired, two resigned, one left out of a possible 4. The next survey is scheduled for autumn 2012. during their probationary period and one was made redundant. We organised an internal questionnaire to increase awareness Eight new employees joined in 2011. of the ten principles in the UN Global Compact. At a subsequent launch meeting, we discussed employee understanding of this Sick leave and presented aspects of Swedish legislation pertaining to this. Sickness absenteeism at Wihlborgs is low; in 2011, it was measured at 1.54 (2.47) percent. Long term absence (60 days or more) represented 22.56 (59.16) percent of total sick leave. All employees are covered by health insurance. Wihlborgs Sustainability Report 2011 37 No. of employees per work location 55 Malmö 6 Lund 22 Helsingborg 4 Copenhagen No. of full time employees New employees, age and sex 4 Men 4 Women 30 – 49 30 – 49 50+ 50+ 20 – 29 20 – 29 30 – 49 50+ Left the company, age and sex 4 Men 3 Women 30 – 49 50+ 50+ 50+ 30 – 49 30 – 49 50+ LA 1, LA 2 New employees 79 Full time employees per work location 2 Helsingborg Board representation, age and sex 6 Malmö 2 Helsingborg 69 67 55 55 30 69 43 42 6 Malmö Benefits Training To encourage the company’s employees to achieve set goals, Wihlborgs wants employees to be able to develop and grow and to increase engagement in Wihlborgs’ operations, all within the company. At performance appraisals, the manager employees except the CEO have been able to subscribe to a and employee agree goals for the latter’s development. profit-sharing fund since 2005. All contributions allocated to the Wihlborgs encourages initiative and supports employees fund are invested in Wihlborgs shares. The maximum allocation wishing to further develop their skills. To this end, employees is one price base amount per employee per year. Shares in the have participated in numerous internal and external training fund are restricted for five years after allocation. The base courses over the year, as agreed in individual development plans. amount is recalculated in proportion to length of employment During the autumn our caretakers have taken courses in and employment grade. conflict management and threats & violence in the workplace. Wihlborgs employees are offered a fitness allowance which We continuously strive to improve health and safety at work for they can use for any fitness activity allowed by Swedish Tax our employees and in 2011 we introduced roof safety measures Agency rules. We also offer several communal exercise and in our properties. These form part of our preventative measures fitness activities, such as participation in fun runs and the like. to avoid slips, trips and falls. The focus in roof inspections is All employees receive regular health checks by our company safety and harness systems for safety vests that all our carehealthcare. All employees are also entitled to subsidised health takers are equipped with. insurance. Social responsibility In 2011 we organised a total of 1,372 training hours, work environment committee that represents Wihlborgs the or 16.14 hours per employee on average. Women accounted for company. 547 hours and men for 825 hours. Training hours covered Wihlborgs pursues regular preventative health and safety facilities management courses, environment certification work designed to reduce the risk of accidents and to reinforce courses, CSR courses, finance for managers, public speaking and the safety culture within the company. Work environment group and management development courses. Administration inspections are a regular feature of our properties and action personnel have also taken basic and advanced construction plans and measures for each respective property are available to safety coordinator courses during the year. Everyone completed all employees via our internal IT systems. these courses successfully. Our contractors and suppliers are responsible for the health and safety of their own employees in accordance with construcNo. of training hours 2011 tion safety workplace coordination rules. To support them in this Wihlborgs has produced a brochure explaining possible work related risks at our company. This brochure is available to download from our website under ”Publications”. The Wihlborgs group had no known instances of serious 825 hours 547 hours 1372 hours injuries or work related illnesses in 2011. Simple procedures for reporting work related accidents and near misses can be accessed on our intranet. Men Women Total Suppliers Wihlborgs operation is in Sweden and Denmark where we Work experience see a slighter risk of infringments against human rights in EC 6, LA 6, LA 7, LA 10, HR 2, HR 4, HR 6 comparison with the global perspective. When we sign Each year Wihlborgs offers a number of students from the operations and maintenance contracts, we strive for 100 perUniversities of Malmö and/or Lund work experience cent local suppliers. We define local suppliers as based in the placements. These students are usually taking a programme Öresund region. We also have other suppliers at national level related to the property sector. Wihlborgs encourages cooperain Sweden and Denmark. This means lower transport and travel tion with other property companies with a view to exchanging costs. By choice, we prefer travel costs to be included in quoted know-how and assessments of various programmes. hourly rates. This would help encourage suppliers to make their transport planning more efficient, good from both a cost Discrimination and environmental point of view. On the other hand, we also contract suppliers and and contractors who can operate Anti discrimination work consists of internal communication globally. As part of our supplier initiatives and of our signing on our policies and the need to pick up and address any cases at the UN Global Compact, our purchasing manager actively an early stage. No cases of discrimination were reported in 2011. raises and explains the ten principles in the Global Compact at the negotiation stage and how they relate to the expectations Child labour we have of each respective supplier/contractor. There have been no known instances of child labour within our Although we operate in a limited area, west Skåne, suppliers organisation, i.e. Wihlborgs employees and board members having a base in our respective locations is important for us, in (internal stakeholders), in 2011. As of today, we do not anticipate terms of knowledge of the area, the local authorities and local any significant risk of this as we are subject to Swedish and regulations, which all make coordination with our employees Danish legislation. easier when ordering. Certain suppliers operate in all three of our locations but with local representatives. Work environment We sign purchase agreements/framework agreements/ annual agreements with all regular suppliers in order to have a At Wihlborgs, we want all employees to find their workplace proper platform for call offs, invoicing and price adjustments. enjoyable and to experience job satisfaction. Naturally, our We avoid index regulated agreements and recommend price workplaces should be safe and secure without the risk of discussions once a year. Agreements are entered in our invoicing/ accidents or near misses. We have a work environment agreements system Palette. Agreements are scanned into the committee that regularly pursues and evaluates ways of contracts module and can be accessed by everyone before a improving our shared work environment. This group consists of delivery call off and for invoice control. both office staff and collective agreement employees of both We aim to maintain a regular dialogue with suppliers. In sexes, from different positions in the company and from different addition to when placing individual orders, the people who regions. 95 percent of our employees are represented on the agreed the contract should meet at least once during the Wihlborgs Sustainability Report 2011 39 contract period to evaluate how the supplier is performing and agreement, will also be linked to the WAPPO app. In practical how we as the client are performing. To enable this, there must terms, this means our caretakers, who often order smaller jobs be a limited number of suppliers in each different category. and services, can ensure they commission approved suppliers/ Agreements are signed for 12 months at a time. This is not for contractors via the app. We chose to develop this app to make the purpose of replacing suppliers but to force us to actively this as easy as possible for them. renew and continue the relationship. It is a case of discussing needs, how the work has been performed, how we have acted as the client and also on possible price adjustments. Which Business ethics means we avoid routine index regulation, aka price increases. In accordance with Wihlborgs' ethical guidelines and the UN Since 2011 we have adopted a new procedure for purchase Global Compact, Wihlborgs relationships should be responsible agreements. Which works as follows: and independent. In order to familiarise employees with the ten principles within the Global Compact, everyone was invited to 1. A check list is attached to the agreement. This addresses answer a questionnaire in summer 2010. The questionnaire issues within environment care, work environment and ethics. and the principles were then discussed in more detail in an 2. Our suppliers are then assessed on a scale of 1–3 where illustrative way at an employee conference in August 2010. 1 = low risk, 2 = medium risk and 3 = higher risk. Any supplier Business ethics is a regular subject for discussion within who does not provide sufficient information is put on a Wihlborgs, via tools such as our training pack ”Wihlborgs talks watch list and given a temporary classification of 0. sustainability” which is distributed once a quarter. When does a gift become a bribe? was the heading in the autumn 2011 edition. 3. We monitor how conditions change during the year and as This is designed to make every employee at Wihlborgs aware of we only sign 1 year agreements, we can take an active role in the potential consequences, from a sustainability and with it, influencing our suppliers/contractors. also from a brand perspective, of accepting or offering a gift or 4. If we have any doubts about whether information provided is a private service. correct, we ask to see the underlying data. We adopted our ethical guidelines in 2006 which board At the end of 2011 56 framework agreements were registered in members, employees, suppliers and contractors are required to accordance with the above model. Our other 130 suppliers will abide by. These guidelines can be read in full on the Wihlborgs SO 2, SO 3 be included in this procedure in 2012. Of the assesed framework website under ”Corporate Governance”. In summer 2011, we agreements 12 have not yet been signed. This will be pursued produced a supplement to the guidelines which means that if an and should be completed in 2012. The 56 framework agreements employee commissions a Wihlborgs supplier/contractor to do have been risk classified as follows: some private work or service for them, the employee must get the estimate approved by their immediate manager first. This is to ensure that the employee is not being given a discount 21% 4% related to their employment with Wihlborgs. At the most recent employee conference in August 2011 all employees were Risk class 3 Risk class 0 informed of this supplement and what it entails. In terms of any risk of corruption, the project management and administration departments are the most exposed to this, as they are the employees who purchase goods and services on Risk Riskbehalf of Wihlborgs. We have not taken any special measures at present to inform these employees other than as described class klass above. Each respective manager is responsible for maintaining a dialogue on ethics with their employees. We are going to continue this work within business ethics 36% 39% strategically with the addition of governing documents and monitoring. This is also one of the risk and business opportuniRisk class 1 Risk class 2 ties identified on page 20. We have no reason to suppose any form of corruption occurred in 2011. This is a continuous process and we have set a target of not renewing contracts in risk class 3 from 2014, as by this point in time, suppliers will have had two years to make improvements. See environment targets on page 34. In 2011 we also developed an app for orders. The app is called WAPPO which stands for Wihlborgs APP for Orders . Suppliers who are risk classified and with whom Wihlborgs signs an Social responsibility Marketing and customer satisfaction Taking responsibility with regard to our properties and the Truthful marketing marketing of them is based on our ethical guidelines and To ensure that our marketing material is not misleading, we information policy. All governing documents are resolved at have a procedure whereby an expert within the company must executive management level. approve the material. In 2011 there were no reported incidents related to Wihlborgs' marketing. The customer in focus Every two years, Wihlborgs organises a questionnaire survey Sponsorship of our tenants. The most recent was done in 2010 and the next Wihlborgs' strong regional roots mean local sponsorship in survey is scheduled for spring 2012. We send out an information sport, culture and the environment is important to the comletter to our tenants ahead of the survey. This explains, for pany. It should help increase awareness of our brand and our instance, that Wihlborgs has commissioned an external company brand exposure in a correct way. Sponsorship should also be to perform the survey. We do this to guarantee objectivity and linked in some way with our core business and provide scope for confidentiality. The survey is designed to identify Wihlborgs' activities/customer meetings for customers, business partners strengths and weaknesses from the customer's perspective. and employees. Based on the findings of the survey, improvement measures and projects can be implemented to develop important success PR 5, PR 6, PR 7 factors and increase customer satisfaction. A total of 400 people completed the Wihlborgs questionnaire in 2010. This response rate took 713 calls. Customer satisfaction is presented on a scale of 1–5, where 1 represents ”Very dissatisfied” and 5 means the customer is Very satisfied”. The average mark for Wihlborgs in the most recent survey was 3.84 which is an improvement on the 2007 survey. Please see below for a summary of the results. Increased customer satisfaction is also one of the areas that has been identified as a business opportunity for Wihlborgs in the risk analysis done on the risks and opportunities of sustainability, see page 19. Customer questionnaire 2010 Highest values Lowest values Caretaker attitude Awareness of Wihlborgs' environment work Wihlborgs attitude Value for money of rent level with regard to administration Easy to get in touch with people and Indoor climate (heating, ventilation etc.) departments at Wihlborgs when necessary Wihlborgs Sustainability Report 2011 41 Dockporten 1 at Dockan in Malmö. Tenants here include Mercedes with its Nordic head office and the restaurant Årstiderna by the Sea. Index GRI Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Index Wihlborgs Sustainability Report 2011 complies with Global Reporting Initiatives (G3.1). Wihlborgs have also chosen to include certain sector specific indicators regarding Construction and Real Estate Sector Supplement (CRE 3.1). Reporting is in line with GRI level B+. The report has been audited by Deloitte. The Sustainability Report alsa includes Wihlborgs Communication on Progress related to the ten principles in the UN Global Compact which are presented on page 46. We have also simultanioulys worked with the ISO 26 000 standard, the connection to the standard can be seen in the table below. 1. STRATEGY AND ANALYSIS GRI (G3.1) CRE (3.1) A Fully ISO Page No. Page No. B Partially 26000 1.1 A word from the CEO 4 – A 6.2 1.2 Description of impact, risks and opportunities. 4, 19 – A 6.2 2. THE ORGANISATION GRI (G3.1) CRE (3.1) A Fully ISO Page No. Page No. B Partially 26000 2.1 Name of the organisation 8 – A – 2.2 The brand. 8 – A 2.3 Organisational structure 8 – A 6.2 2.4 Location of head office. 8 – A – 2.5 Countries where the organisation operates 8 – A – 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form 8 – A – 2.7 Markets 8 – A – 2.8 Scale of the organisation 8 – A – 2.9 Significant changes during the reporting period. 8 – A – 2.10 Awards and recognition 6 – A – Wihlborgs Sustainability Report 2011 43 3. INFORMATION ON THE REPORT GRI (G3.1) CRE (3.1) A Fully ISO Page No. Page No. B Partially 26000 Report profile A 3.1 Reporting period. 12 – – 3.2 Date of publication of the most recent report. Not applicable as – – – this is Wihlborgs' first sustainability report. 3.3 Reporting cycle. 12 – A – 3.4 Contact persons for the report 53 – A – Report scope and demarcation 3.5 Process for defining report content 10 – A – 3.6 Demarcations for the report. 10 – A – 3.7 Specific limitations on the scope or boundary of the report. 10 – A – 3.8 Basis for reporting on subsidiary companies. 10 – A – 3.9 Data measurement techniques and the bases of calculations. 10, 28 – A – 3.10 Explanation of the effects of any re-statements of information provided in earlier Not applicable as – – – this is Wihlborgs' reports. first sustainability report. 3.11 Material changes from previous reporting periods Not applicable as – – – this is Wihlborgs' in the scope, demarcation or measurement methods applied. first sustainability report. Auditing – 3.12 GRI index. 42 – A 3.13 Inspection and Assurance. 47 – A 7.5.3 4. GOVERNANCE, COMMITMENTS AND ENGAGEMENT GRI (G3.1) CRE (3.1) A Fully ISO Page No. Page No. B Partially 26000 Governance A 4.1 Governance structure of organisation. 15 – A 6.2 4.2 Role of the chair. 15 – A 6.2 4.3 Independent or non-executive board members. 15 – A 6.2 4.4 Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to provide recommendations or 16 – A 6.2 direction to the management and board. 4.5 Executive remuneration 16 – A 6.2 4.6 Processes in place for the board to ensure 16 – A 6.2 conflicts of interest are avoided. 4.7 CSR competence and qualifications of the board and management group. 16 A 6.2 4.8 Values and policies. 22, 24, 36, 40 – A 6.2 4.9 Procedures of the board for overseeing sustainability performance and connections 16, 46 – A – to international org. 4.10 Evaluation of the board's own CSR performance. 16 – A 6.2 4.11 Explanation of whether and how the precautionary approach is addressed 24 – A – by the organisation. 4.12 External declarations/principles the organisation supports 46 – A 6.2 Index GRI External initiatives A 4.13 Memberships in organisations 8 – A 6.2 Communication with stakeholders A 4.14 Stakeholder groups. 17 – A 6.2 4.15 Basis for selection of stakeholders. 17 – A 6.2 4.16 Dialogues with stakeholders. 17 – A 6.2 4.17 Important issues that have been raised in dialogue with stakeholders. 16 – A 6.2 5. FINANCIAL INDICATORS GRI (G3.1) CRE (3.1) A Fully ISO Page No. Page No. B Partially 26000 Information on sustainability management for the category EC 22 – – Financial results A 6.8, 6.8.3 EC 1. Created and delivered direct financial value. 23 – A 6.8.7, 6.8.9 EC 6. Policy and practice and the proportion of costs paid to local suppliers in 38 – B 6.6.6, 6.8 significant business locations. 6.8.5, 6.8.7 6. ENVIRONMENT INDICATORS GRI (G3.1) CRE (3.1) A Fully ISO Page No. Page No. B Partially 26000 Information on sustainability management for the category EN 24 – – Energy A EN 3. Direct energy usage per primary energy source. 24 – A 6.5, 6.5.4 EN 4. Indirect energy usage per primary energy source. 25 – A 6.5, 6.5.4 EN 5. Reduction in energy usage and efficiency improvements. 27 – B 6.5, 6.5.4 EN 6. Initiatives to provide products and services that are energy efficient or based on 31 – A 6.5, 6.5.4 renewable energy, and reductions in energy needs as a result of these initiatives. Water EN 8. Total water usage per source. 33 – A 6.5, 6.5.4 Emissions, effluents and waste A EN 16. Total direct and indirect emissions of greenhouse gases, by weight. 28–29 – A 6.5, 6.5.5 EN 17. Other relevant indirect emissions of greenhouse gases, by weight. 28 A 6.5, 6.5.5 EN 18. Initiatives to reduce emissions of greenhouse gases, and reduction achieved. 31 – A 6.5, 6.5.5 EN 22. Total weight of waste, per type and handling method. 29 – A 6.5, 6.5.3 EN 26. Measures to reduce the environment impact of products and services, 31 – B 6.5, 6.5.4 and the results of such. 6.6.6, 6.7.5 EN 29. Significant environment impact related to the transport of products and other 28 – A 6.5, 6.5.4 products and materials that are used by the company in pursuit of its business, including 6.6.6 employee commuting/business travel. CRE 1. Building energy intensity – 27 A – CRE 2. Building water intensity – 33 A – CRE 8. Sustainability certifications – 31 B – Wihlborgs Sustainability Report 2011 45 7. SOCIAL INDICATORS GRI (G3.1) CRE (3.1) A Fully ISO Page No. Page No. B Partially 26000 Information on sustainability management for the category LA 36 – – Employment 37 – A 6.4, 6.4.3 LA 1. Total number of employees, broken down by sex, form of employment, employment conditions and region. LA 2. Total number of employees who have been employed and left and employee 37 – A 6.4, 6.4.3 turnover, per age group, sex and region. LA 3. Benefits provided to full time employees and that do not include temporary 36 A 6.4, 6.4.3, 6.4.4 employees or part time employees. Information is to be provided for each larger business operation and specifically for different geographic locations where the company operates. Health and safety at work 38 A 6.4, 6.4.6 LA 6. The proportion of employees (by percentage) that are represented in formal and for management and employees joint committees for health and safety, that consist of monitoring and advice on health and safety programmes. LA 7. Scale of injuries, work related illnesses, days lost, absences and the total number of 38 A 6.4, 6.4.6 work related fatalities per region and sex. LA 10. Average number of training hours per employee, sex and year, broken down by 38 A 6.4, 6.4.7 employee category. Information on sustainability management for the category HR 36 Investment and procurement procedures – A HR 2. Percentage of significant suppliers, sub contractors and business partners who have 39 A 6.3, 6.3.3, 6.3.5 been checked with regard to human rights issues and actions taken. 6.4.3, 6.6.6 Non discrimination 6.3, 6.3.6, 6.3.7, HR 4. Number of cases of discrimination, and actions taken. 38 A 6.3.10, 6.4.3 Child labour 6.3, 6.3.3, HR6. Businesses and significant suppliers for which attention has been drawn to 38 B 6.3.4 6.3.5, whether there is substantial risk of child labour and actions taken to help the 6.3.7, 6.3.10 prevention of child labour. Information on sustainability management for the category SO 36 – Corruption 6.6, 6.6.3 SO 2. Percentage and total number of business units analysed for risk of corruption. 39 A SO 3. Percentage of employees who have received training in the organisation's 39 A 6.6, 6.6.3 anti-corruption policies and procedures. Information on sustainability management for the category PR 40 – Labelling of products and services 6.7, 6.7.4, 6.7.5 PR 5. Procedures for customer satisfaction, including results of customer surveys. 40 A 6.7.6, 6.7.8, 6.7.9 Market communication 6.7, 6.7.3 PR 6. Programme for compliance with laws, standards and voluntary codes for market 40 B 6.7.6, 6.7.9 communication, including marketing, PR and sponsorship. PR 7. Total number of cases where regulations and voluntary codes related to 40 A 6.7, 6.7.3, market communications, including advertising, marketing and sponsorship were 6.7.6, 6.7.9 not complied with. This information is to be specified according to the effects of the failure to comply. Global Compact link to GRI Global Compact Report In July 2010 Wihlborgs signed the UN Global Compact. The Global Compact initiative was launched in association Principles in the Global Compact GRI indicators with the World Economic Forum (Davos 1999). Then UN Human rights Secretary General Kofi Annan challenged the business world to sign up to the initiative. The thinking behind the Global 1. The companies are requested to support and HR 2, HR 4, HR 6 Compact is to make companies aware of and take active respect the safeguarding of international LA 6 human rights within the sphere in which they PR 5, PR 6, PR 7 responsibility for ten internationally recognised principles in can influence. four areas; human rights, employment law, the environment and anti-corruption. Companies that sign up to the Global 2. Seek assurance that their own company does HR 2, HR 4, HR 6 Compact, undertake the following; not participate in infringements against human rights. AA The CEO of the company is to send a letter to the UN Employment Law: Secretary General confirming that they support the Global 3. The company is requested to maintain HR 2 Compact and its principles. freedom of association and to acknowledge in fact the right to collective bargaining. AA The company is then to incorporate the Global Compact principles into its corporate strategy and take steps to make 4. The prevention of all forms of forced labour. HR 2 the principles part of its corporate culture on an everyday basis. 5. The prevention of child labour. HR 6 AA The company undertakes to publicly stand up for the Global 6. The elimination of discrimination against LA 2 Compact and its principles. employment and professional practice. HR 2, HR 4, Environment AA The company explains in its annual report how it is supporting and promoting the Global Compact and the 7. Companies are requested to support the EN 18, EN 26, initiative's ten principles. precautionary principle when it comes to environmental risks. Global Compact and 8. Take initiatives to promote greater environEN 3, EN 4, EN 5, EN 6, GRI crosstable ment related responsibility. EN 8, EN 16, EN 17, EN 18, EN 22, EN 26, EN 29, The table to right illustrates the ten principles in the Global Compact. This sustainability report also includes a report on 9. Encourage the development and spread of EN 2, EN 5–7, EN 10, the ten principles. They are presented in the GRI index with environment friendly technology. EN 18, EN 26, reference to the Global Compact. We have published two earlier Anti corruption independent Communication on Progress reports (2010, 2011), this report includes our third. 10. Companies ought to combat all forms of SO 2, SO 3 corruption, including blackmail and bribery. Auditor’s Review Report Wihlborgs Sustainability Report 2011 47 Auditor’s Review Report Auditor’s Review Report on Our review has, based on an assessment of materiality and risk, e.g. included the following procedures: the Wihlborgs Fastigheter ABs AA An update of our knowledge and understanding of Sustainability Report Wihlborgs Fastigheter AB’s organization and activities. To the readers of the Wihlborgs Fastigheter ABs AA An assessment of suitability and application of the Sustainability Report. criteria regarding the stakeholders’ need for information. AA An assessment of the outcome of the Company’s Introduction stakeholder dialogue. We have been engaged by the Executive Management of AA Interviews with the responsible management, at group Wihlborgs Fastigheter AB to review Wihlborgs Fastigheter ABs level, and at selected business units in order to assess if Sustainability Report for the year 2011. Our review is limited to the qualitative and quantitative information stated in the the information related to 2011. Our review covers the SustainSustainability Report is complete, accurate and sufficient. ability Report 2011, pages 4-45. The Board of Directors and the Executive Management are responsible for ongoing activities AA Shared internal and external documents in order to assess regarding the environment, health & safety, quality, social if the information stated in the Sustainability Report is responsibility and sustainable development, and for the prepacomplete, accurate and sufficient. ration and presentation of the Sustainability Report in accordAA Analytical procedures of the information stated in the ance with the applicable criteria. Our responsibility is to express Sustainability Report. a conclusion on the Sustainability Report based on our review. AA An assessment of the Company’s declared application level according to GRI guidelines. The Scope of the Review AA An assessment of the overall impression of the Sustainability We have performed our review in accordance with RevR 6 Report, and its format, taking into consideration the consisAssurance of Sustainability Reports issued by Far. A review contency of the stated information with applicable criteria. sists of making inquiries, primarily of persons responsible for the preparation of the Sustainability Report, and applying analytical and other review procedures. A review is substantially less Conclusion in scope than an audit conducted in accordance with IAASB’s Based on our review, nothing has come to our attention Standards on Auditing and Quality Control and other generally that causes us to believe that the information in Wihlborgs accepted auditing standards in Sweden. The procedures perFastigheter AB’s Sustainability Report 2011 has not, in all formed consequently do not enable us to obtain assurance that material respects, been prepared in accordance with the above we would become aware of all significant matters that might stated criteria. be identified in an audit. Accordingly, we do not express an audit opinion. Stockholm, April 10, 2012 The criteria on which our review are based are the parts of Deloitte AB the Sustainability Reporting Guidelines G3.1, published by The Global Reporting Initiative (GRI), which are applicable to the Sustainability Report. We consider these criteria suitable for the preparation of the Sustainability Report. Johan Rasmusson Sofie Wadstein Authorized Public Accountant Expert Member of Far Certification The Property Terminal 1 in Helsingborg, is mostly known as a Terminal along with the Property Najaden 14 on the other side of Drottninggatan. Statement: GRI Application Level Check TEM hereby states that Wihlborgs Fastigheter AB has presented its sustainability report, “Wihlborgs Sustainability Report 2011”, Malmö, Sweden, 10 April 2012 to TEM. As a third party, TEM has concluded that this report, using the G3.1 Guidelines and the Sector Supplement “Construction and Real Estate”, fulfills the requirement of Application Level B. GRI Application Levels communicate the extent to which the content of the G3.1 Guidelines and the Sector Supplement Iris Rehnström “Construction and Real Estate” has been used in the sustainaSustainability Management Consultant bility reporting process. This statement confirms that the required set and number of disclosures for Application Level B have been addressed in the report and that the GRI Content Index presents a valid presentation of the required disclosures as described in the GRI G3.1 Guidelines and the Sector Supplement “Construction and Real Estate”. Application Levels do neither provide an opinion on the sustainability performance of the reporting company nor on the quality of the information in the report. www.tem.se Glossary Wihlborgs Sustainability Report 2011 49 Glossary Waste By waste we mean all objects or substances that the holder wishes to dispose of or is required to dispose of. Waste is defined in accordance with an to events or conditions at a specific point in time in the future, or to a certain period of time in the future. The value of a derivative instrument is linked to EU wide directive (EU Directive 2006/12/EU on waste), and is therefore to be the value of an underlying asset, such as equities, share indices, currencies, interpreted as set out by the European Court of Justice. The basic regulations interest rates or commodities. on waste can be found in the Swedish Environmental Code (1998:808) 15 chap EDI Electronic Data Interchange of information in structured messages and Waste Directive (2011:927) between different companies or organisations, for automatic processing in IT BAS P /BAS U BAS-P and BAS-U (basic and advanced construction safety systems. coordination) include very important responsibilities related to the work Energy usage Energy used for different purposes. When we drive a car we environment as a whole on construction sites. These responsibilities are set use energy in the form of petrol, diesel or ethanol. We are either connected to out in Work Environment Act 3 chap. 7§ and AFS 1999:3 with amendments to a district heating network, have electric radiators, or a gas,oil or biomass fired and including 2008:16. boiler to heat our homes, offices and factories. Bra miljöval el Is the Swedish Society for Nature Conservation label for elecEnergy efficiency Energy efficiency and energy saving means trying to make tricity and is based on solar, wind, hydro and biofuel energy, but not nuclear, existing energy conversion more efficient either by reducing energy consumpcoal or natural gas. tion or by getting more out of existing energy usage. This will enable us to BREEAM (Building Research Establishment Environmental Assessment have access to more energy in society without increasing energy production. Method) BREEAM has been developed and is managed by BRE, a British In so doing, this will enable the more economic use of natural resources, building research organisation. This environmental certification assesses capital and the environment. environmental aspects within e.g. management, energy, transport, water, Ethical funds Certain funds are called ethical funds. These are funds where materials and waste and pollution. BREEAM is divided into criteria for which the choice of investments is influenced by certain social, environmental or points are awarded which, in turn, lead to certification. The Sweden Greenother ethical criteria. Certain ethical funds avoid investments in sectors such Building Council actively works to adapt BREEAM to Swedish conditions and a as alcohol, gambling, pornography, tobacco and arms, for example. Other BREEAM committee will be appointed in early 2012. ethical funds avoid investments in companies who breach international norms. Some fund companies also try to actively select companies that are CSR (Corporate Social Responsibility) is a form of corporate self-regulation amongst the environment leaders in their sector while others also try to that aims to embrace responsibility for the company's actions and how it influence companies in which they have an investment via shareholder impacts on society, from a financial, environmental and social perspective. dialogue and action. The concept is increasingly used both to explain what one means (see section on concept confusion below) and to emphasis that financial responsibility Energy supplier A company that sells energy to energy consumers. (which is part of sustainability but not CSR) is necessary if a company's social responsibility is to be long term and integrated into its business model. Energy sources In everyday language, the way we power the world; fuels, energy raw materials, energy bearers and methods of extracting energy. Landfill Rubbish dump, also known in recent years as landfill, is a place where Energy statistics application Virtually every property owner collates energy waste is dumped (landfilled). Landfill waste consists of residual waste once data via different kinds of property software. Examples of property software food waste, combustible waste and recyclable waste have been sorted out. applications available today include Summarum, Momentum PM and the Such residual waste cannot be combusted, composted or recycled. From an Hogia Property Application. More energy oriented software includes environment point of view, it is considered important that as little waste as Webbess, Ess200, E4, Energireda and Momentum RC. possible goes to landfill. Hazardous waste Waste that has certain hazardous properties or is Derivatives Derivative instruments are a collective name for a form of classified as such by the Waste Directive. Hazardous waste requires security. The most common derivatives are options, terms, futures, warrants special treatment. and swaps. What is particular to financial derivatives is that they are linked Glossary UN Global Compact The Global Compact initiative was launched in GRI The organisation behind GRI (Global Reporting Initiative) has set out association with the World Economic Forum (Davos 1999) when Kofi Annan voluntary general guidelines for how companies and other organisations challenged the business world to sign up to the initiative. The thinking behind should report what they are doing within sustainable development. These the Global Compact is to make companies aware of and take active responguidelines, which are now available in versions G3 and G3.1, cover preferences sibility for ten internationally recognised principles in four areas: human when reporting sustainability data within finance, environment and social rights, employment law, the environment and anti-corruption. responsibility. Such reporting should present a balanced and credible picture of the organisation's development in the sustainability area, including both Precautionary principle In technology contexts, the precautionary principle positive and negative aspects. means if there is any uncertainty as to whether or not a substance is hazardous, it should be treated as being hazardous. The Swedish Environmental Stakeholder dialogue Many companies start with their stakeholders when Code (2 Chap 3 §) defines the precautionary principle as follows: ”Everyone they structure their sustainability work. Maintaining a dialogue with stakewho operates or intends to operate a business or take a measure, is to holders can be crucial for the success of CSR work. Stakeholder dialogues are perform all safety precautions, observe any restrictions and adopt cautionary part of sustainability reporting according to GRI. measures in general that are required to prevent, avoid or counteract any harm or inconvenience the business or measure may cause to human health Carbon dioxide Carbon dioxide, CO2, sometimes, erroneously called hydroor the environment. For the same reasons, the best possible technology carbons, is a gaseous substance at room temperature with a faint scent and should be used for commercial operations. These precautionary measures sour taste. are to be adopted as soon as there are grounds to believe that a business kWh The unit kilowatt hour, kWh (thousand watt hours), is often used when or measure can cause harm or inconvenience to the health of people or the measuring the consumption of electrical energy. environment.” LEED (Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design) LEED has been Renewable Renewable energy sources are energy sources that are constantly developed by the US GreenBuilding Council. Certification assesses environrenewed and will not therefore be exhausted within the foreseeable future. mental aspects within e.g. site/land usage, water, materials, energy and Sustainable development Sustainable development is a concept that indoor environment. Here too, there are versions modified for different types was pioneered by Lester Brown in 1981 and that gained international fame of building and the environmental aspects are divided into criteria for which in association with the UN report Our Common Future (1987), called the points are awarded towards a combined mark for the entire building. Brundtland Report. The UN report defines sustainable development as a Environment aspects & Environment impact Environment aspects means pattern of growth in which resource use aims to meet human needs while the parts of a business, products and services that can have an impact on the preserving the environment so that these needs can be met not only in the environment. Examples of environment aspects can be emissions and efflupresent, but also for generations to come. ents, storage of chemicals, noise and consumption. This also means that the Non toxic environment Environment quality goal no. 4. The presence of environment aspects do not end at the factory gates but also impact the substances in the environment that have been created or extracted by society environment to a greater extent. A better explanation of what an environment should not threaten human health or bio diversity. The percentage of foreign aspect is, can be that the environment aspect is the cause of why environment substances is almost zero and their impact on human health and eco systems impact occurs. Environment impact can be both positive and negative. is negligible. The percentage of naturally occurring substances is close to background levels. Environment certification Certification as such means an external inspection and an objective assessment of how environmentally sustainable GreenBuilding GreenBuilding is a programme for energy usage rather than a building is. When a property is approved, the property owner receives an environment classification system as such. A building can be certified as a certificate. Depending on the certification system, there are also different a new build or via renovation of an existing property. To be certified in south levels of classification of the certificate. Sweden a new build property must not use more than 75 kWh/m². In the case of modernisation, energy consumption must be cut by at least 30 percent Green cars The concept green car usually means cars that meet higher compared to existing usage. requirements in terms of emissions of environmentally hazardous substances, compared with ordinary cars. However, there is not yet any uniform definition Green leases In 2011 the Swedish Property Federation produced a standard of the concept green car, and different criteria are applied by different cities form for green leases. Between 12 December and 19 January, a proposed lease and authorities. The then Swedish Road Administration produced a proposal and associated guidance was sent out for open referral. The finalised lease for a green car definition that was expected to provide guidance. A car classed will be launched in spring 2012 and will be included in the Swedish Property as a green car receives advantageous treatment with lower taxes, exemption Federation set of leases. from congestion charges and advantageous parking in certain cities. Examples Wihlborgs Sustainability Report 2011 51 of green cars include hybrid cars, electric cars, LPG cars and ethanol cars if Risk analysis A means of systematically using available information to they meet the rules in place on emissions, and also conventional petrol and describe and calculate risks associated with a certain given system. A risk diesel cars (with particulate emissions under 5 mg per km) that release up to analysis is a way of assessing the probability of different undesired events 120 g carbon dioxide per km. occurring and the consequences of such. Decisions can be based on this and measures taken to minimise these risks, that can be both long term and short Miljöbyggnad Miljöbyggnad is a Swedish system for certifying buildings in term. A risk analysis can be done using various different methods, which can terms of energy, indoor climate and materials. The building is subject to a 15 be qualitative, semi quantitative or quantitative. point check, including energy purchased, noise class, radon content, damp, natural light, integral materials, chemicals and building products. Buildings SGBC Sweden GreenBuilding Council is a not for profit organisation that is can be classed as bronze, silver or gold depending on how they score on the 15 owned by its members, and open to all companies and organisations within point check. Miljöbyggnad covers both new builds and existing buildings. the Swedish construction and property sector. The Council promotes green building and the development of environment and sustainability work in the Environment targets The Swedish system of environment targets includes sector. a generation target and sixteen environment quality targets. Organisations and businesses generally formulate their own environment targets that in one Strategy Strategy is perspective. Strategy is about seeing the whole picture way or another can be linked to national environment quality targets. – about understanding the way in which a company or brand can be competitive in the long term and where the most profitable business will be Transport adapted to the environment Is Included in Environment quality found. It acts as a compass directing the whole business – the framework for target no. 15; transport and transport facilities are located and structured to all activities – as a tool for making the right tactical decisions along the way. limit harmful effects on urban or cultural environments and such that they do not comprise health and safety risks or otherwise an environmental disturTransparency This concept is used in the enterprise sector as a measure bance, public transport systems adapted to the environment are accessible of how open and transparent a company is towards different external and of good quality and that conditions for pedestrians and cyclists are good. stakeholders, and also in the meaning of whether you can obtain a picture of the organisation and understand it internally. One example of work done MWh One megawatt hour. 1 MWh = 1,000 kWh. to increase transparency in companies is the development of financial accounting principles such as the international standards in IFRS that define Ozone depleting substances Substances that deplete the ozone layer what information should be included in financial reporting in order to increase contain either chlorine (Cl) or bromine (Br). These substances vaporise transparency and comparability. readily and are very stable. This means they can reach the stratosphere where the ozone layer is. Substances that are classified as ozone depleting are, Third party The body producing the report states which level has been for instance, found in cooling media and fire protection systems. used after having made its own assessment against the criteria in the GRI Application levels. In addition to this self assessment of the level, the reportPCB Polychlorinated biphenyls, are a group of industrial chemicals hazardous ing organisation can choose one or both of the following voluntary actions; 1) to the environment and health that were developed in the 1920s. They are obtain a statement from a third party on the assessment that has been made, classified in the group of long lived organic pollutants. Chemically, PCB 2) commission GRI to check the self assessment. pollutants comprise two aromatic rings that can have 1–10 chlorine atoms linked to them. Their toxicity depends on the position of the chlorine atoms Emissions The air borne pollutants that are most harmful are particles that in the molecule, not the number of chlorine atoms. PCB pollutants are can be inhaled, ozone and certain organic hydrocarbons. Local emissions liposoluble which means they are concentrated in body fat. mostly come from road traffic and from burning wood for home heating. Machinery such as lawnmowers, chainsaws and excavators also make a big ISO 26 000 ISO 26 000 is an international standard for social responsibility. contribution to emissions. To combat these, environment quality target no 2 It is based on seven fundamental principles that jointly define the concept of ”Fresh Air” has been formulated. social responsibility. In simple terms, one can say that ISO 26 000 sets out what companies and organisations can do to contribute Recycling The reuse of materials from waste. In general, recycling is a to a sustainable future. preferred method when it comes to treating waste. Narrowly speaking, recycling means recovering materials for reuse, which means that virgin The GHG Protocol The GHG Protocol (greenhouse gas protocol), is an materials are replaced by used materials collected. One also sometimes accounting system used by governments and leading companies to measure speaks of energy recycling, whereby certain kinds of combustion can be carbon dioxide and similar emissions. The GHG protocol has been developed classified as recycling. In Sweden, virtually all waste is recycled or combusted by the World Resources Institute (WRI) and the World Business Council for and only a very small proportion is sent to landfill. Sustainable Development (WBCSD) in consultation with sector representatives and governments. The Property Uven 9 in Malmö. The former Swedish Riksbank Building that won the Malmö Stadsbyggnadspris 1986. Contact persons Wihlborgs Sustainability Report 2011 53 Contact persons Thank you for reading our sustainability report. As this is our first report, we welcome all feedback. Please contact any of us in the Wihlborgs CSR group. Hanna Claesson, Environmental Affairs Director Britta Nordin, HR Director Tel. +46 (0) 40 690 57 92, hanna.claesson@wihlborgs.se Tel. +46 (0) 40 690 57 09, britta.nordin@wihlborgs.se Christer Johansson, Chief Financial Officer Lars Steinholtz, Procurement Director Tel. +46 (0) 40 690 57 06, christer.johansson@wihlborgs.se Tel. +46 (0) 40 690 57 73, lars.steinholtz@wihlborgs.se Iréne Johansson, Director of Corporate Communication Tel. +46 (0) 40 690 57 21, irene.johansson@wihlborgs.se Wihlborgs' CSR group comprises Britta Nordin, HR Director, Lars Steinholtz, Procurement Director, Irene Johansson, Director of Corporate Communication, Christer Johansson, Chief Financial Officer, Hanna Claesson, Environmental Affairs Director. Sustainability high points 2011 Sustainability highpoints 2011 AA In mid February Wihlborgs' Chief Financial Officer hosted an in Helsingborg had been certified as a GreenBuilding. economics network meeting focused on CSR. The meeting It was the first office building in Helsingborg to receive was held in one of our buildings and the companies present certification. discussed and exchanged experiences. AA In June it was resolved that Wihlborgs' new build and renovation projects for respectively the properties Fören and AA At the end of February Wihlborgs participated as a role Landsdomaren in Malmö and Lund were to be classified in model at a Veckans Affärer and E.ON breakfast meeting accordance with the Miljöbyggnad” and ”GreenBuilding” at the Hilton in Malmö. Over 120 representatives from the certification systems. Along with classification, a number of property sector, industry and local authorities and county additional points were used to improve the environmental councils gathered to listen to leaders of industry talk about impact of the properties. innovations in areas where energy, efficiency and effectiveness meet that affect companies and their competitiveness. AA On 21 November Wihlborgs took part in the Global Malmö Days and our Environment Manager presented a seminar AA All Wihlborgs service vehicles had already been replaced by lecture on ”The enterprise sector's role in sustainable LPG vehicles. In February, three Mitsubishi i-MiEV electric development”. cars were delivered. The cars are used as pool cars in Malmö and Helsingborg. AA In mid December, Wihlborgs hosted a network conference on behalf of CSR Skåne. The topic for a conference was AA On 9 March Wihlborgs' Environment Manager gave a lecture Securing the Supplier Chain . At the meeting, Wihlborgs' on Wihlborgs' sustainability work at CSR South 2011 (the Procurement Director shared his experiences in the area. largest conference in south Sweden focused on the social responsibility in the private and public sectors) in Malmö. AA In December Wihlborgs' ordering app was ready for use. The app is part of work that was started on assuring AA In June Wihlborgs received the news from the Sweden Wihlborgs' suppliers. For more information see page 39. GreenBuilding Council (SGBC) that its property Polisen 3 ÖMÄRK IL J Production Wihlborgs in association with Adamsson Appelfeldt Advertising. M T Photography Felix Gerlach (interiors and exteriors), Peter Westrup (portraits). Printed by Holmbergs. Printed on Swan marked paper, licence no 341 140. 341 TR 140 YCK SAK Malmö – Head Office Helsingborg Lund Denmark Wihlborgs Fastigheter AB Wihlborgs Fastigheter AB Wihlborgs Fastigheter AB Wihlborgs A/S www.wihlborgs.se Box 97, 201 20 Malmö Garnisonsgatan 25 A Ideon Science Park Ellekær 6, opgang C info@wihlborgs.se Visitors: Dockplatsen 16 254 66 Helsingborg Scheelevägen 17 DK-2730 Herlev, Denmark Registered address: Tel: +46 40 690 57 00 Tel: +46 42 490 46 00 223 70 Lund Tel: +45 396 161 57 Malmö, Sweden Fax: +46 40 690 57 01 Fax: +46 42 490 46 01 Tel: +46 40 690 57 00 Fax: +45 396 161 58 Company no: 556367-0230 Home of job satisfaction Through our commitment and our properties, we create conditions for strong growth for the enterprise sector in the Öresund region. wihlborgs.com
