EPOS UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2011 January 2012 EPOS UN GC CoP 2011 GLOBAL COMPACT ACTION TAKEN & IMPACT ACHIEVED AND/OR PRINCIPLE PLANS FOR THE UPCOMING YEAR 1: Businesses should As a company working in international development, EPOS support and respect Health Management strictly adheres to internationally the protection of proclaimed human rights in all its projects. The protection of internationally human rights is included as a principle in EPOS’ “Code of proclaimed human Ethics” rights; (http://www.epos.de/Code-of-Ethics.868.0.html?&L=1) The Code of Ethics is an inherent part of all our contracts and is therefore signed by all staff, experts and partners. We take immediate action if a collaborator does not fully comply with these fundamental principles. We strive to be recognised as a company which takes this Code of Ethics into account in all activities. We actively pursue adherence to the principles spelled out in the Code of Ethics and also demand this from all our collaborators. As an example, the Code of Ethics has been discussed during the last year in all project mobilisation briefings with Team Leaders at EPOS Headquarters. We also make sure human rights principles are applied in all projects worldwide -and especially with our partners and local personnel. 2: and make sure that See principle 1. they are not complicit in human rights abuses. 3: Businesses should The freedom of association and right to collective bargaining uphold the freedom of are guaranteed by the German “Grundgesetz” (Basic association and the Constitutional Law of the Federal Republic of Germany) and effective recognition are respected by EPOS. of the right to collective bargaining; 4: the elimination of See principle 1 and the abolition of child labour. all forms of forced and compulsory labour; 5: the effective In recognition of the special rights of children, EPOS Health abolition of child Management developed and implemented a Child Protection labour; Policy in 2009. The “Child Protection Policy” is now an integral part of every contract concluded with EPOS. From the inception of this policy, all new EPOS Health Management staff and contractors received a provision in their employment agreements for dismissal or transfer to other duties if he/she breaches the Child Protection Code of Conduct. Reporting suspected or actual child abuse is mandatory for all staff, volunteers, consultants and subcontractors. EPOS' Managing Director in consultation with the senior manager concerned, will ultimately decide what sanctions will be taken against breaches. The best interests of the child and the desire to secure the best outcomes for the child should always govern decisions regarding what action should be taken in response to concerns. In certain instances, there will be the obligation for EPOS and its staff to report concerns to the appropriate Page 1 EPOS UN GC CoP 2011 external bodies. This will usually occur as a consequence of the reporting procedure. There has been no suspected reporting during the last year. (http://www.epos.de/Child-Protection-Policy.870.0.html?&L=1) 6: and the elimination Included in principle 1. of discrimination in The company continues to have an Ombudswoman as contact respect of person to which employees can address cases of employment and discrimination. occupation. As an expert in international health, EPOS is well aware of discrimination against people living with HIV/AIDS and the need for education, care and support programmes. The company therefore implements an “HIV/AIDS Workplace Policy” which protects EPOS’ employees from discrimination on the basis of their HIV status. The Policy makes provision for HIV/AIDS related services such as condom distribution and workforce education for EPOS staff and project partners, as well as provides contributions to local insurance schemes. As a globally operating company, EPOS has mainstreamed adressing HIV/AIDS in its projects by making the implementation of well run HIV/AIDS programmes a selection criterion for sub-contracting partners. http://www.epos.de/uploads/media/EPOS_HIV_Policy.pdf 7: Businesses should Included as a principle in EPOS’ environmental policy. support a The Environmental Policy Implementation Working Group has precautionary been integrated into the Working Group for Climate Change -approach to envia group at the mother company level which also endorses a ronmental challenges; group-wide environmental policy. Group-wide collaboration facilitates planning and activities related to environmental protection. We continued using our new FSC recycled paper, selected when EPOS underwent a corporate name change and renewed all letterhead and office paper.. Further plans for 2012 call for changing our proposal layout and paper so that we can also print our proposals doublesided. We also plan to procure new proposal folders without any plastic materials and environmentally certified. Further plans call for the development of an Activity Plan for project offices worldwide to implement the Environmental Policy. (http://www.epos.de/Environmental-Policy.867.0.html?&L=1) 8: undertake Included in principle 7. initiatives to promote In line with the Environmental Policy, EPOS requires its staff to greater environmental use resources in an environmentally friendly way. Doubleresponsibility; sided printing has become a default setting for all EPOS staff. Recycling of paper has been introduced for the entire EPOS building. Staff members collect used paper and are responsible for bringing it to recycling collection points. Staff are also encouraged to switch off computer screens when they go on longer breaks, turn down the heating system and switch off lights when they leave the office after work. All new employees in 2011 received environmental office waste training and briefings on the environmental policy. Page 2 EPOS UN GC CoP 2011 9: and encourage the Within the context of its environmental responsibility, EPOS development and continuous purchasing energy saving IT equipment and diffusion of devices. environmentally During 2010, renovations took place in and outside the EPOS friendly technologies. building. New insulation was installed and windows have been replaced by energy-efficient double paned windows. The results of the renovation effort have been considerable and the aims of the project have been met to a very high degree: The consumption of gas for heating purposes has been halved. Heat losses of the offices have been reduced in the winter months and rooms no longer heat up as much in summer. The lighting in the offices can be adjusted to suit individual working environments. The introduction of company wide usage of Lync, which offers video conferencing possibilities as well as the procurement of a smartboard with videoconferencing capabilities, allows joint project proposal preparations among offices located worldwide. This allows for a reduction of unnecessary flights. By using Lync’s video function, EPOS staff not working in the headquarter offices can better and more easily participate in meetings and do not need to travel as much as before. The reduction of air travel is of great concern to us as this is the area where we cause most environmental harm. Currently the company group is working on the introduction of a full-scale SharePoint system as a way to manage effective data storage / sharing and thus reduce overall printing. Starting in the beginning of 2012 we will also change our energy supplier to an environmental friendly energy source. 10: Businesses Included as principle in EPOS’ “Code of Conduct” should work against Cases of corruption did not occur. all forms of corruption, including extortion and bribery. EPOS’ Headquarters serves as the contact point for any assistance needed. Contact details: EPOS Health Management Annefried MÜLLER Hindenburgring 18, 61348 Bad Homburg, Germany Phone: +49 6172 930-370 Fax: +49 6172 930-372 Email: Annefried.mueller@epos.de Page 3
