Sustainability Report 2010 Letter from the Director Index 1. This is GCM t Mission and Vision 10 t Values 12 t Environmental policy 14 t Code of Ethics 17 t Corporate Governance 20 t Quality Assurance 22 2. Quality of life in the company t Scholarships 26 t Training programs 27 t Recreational and sporting events 28 t A healthy business 31 t ALERT, safety first! 33 3. Business Ethics t Sales Report 38 t Groups of interest: 40 a) Internal b)External t How are we made up? 42 4. Community Involvement tParticipatory Rural Development, a new stage 49 tCommunity Development Report 52 tHealth Care 56 tSupport for Education 60 tEnvironmental Care 62 5. Environment Care tEnvironmental Campaigns 68 tConservation Areas 69 tWe joined the UN initiative 70 tSustainable production process: a) The treatment lagoons 71 b) Collecting of Methane 74 Letter from the Director 2010 was an extraordinary year in which good market We also stand out as a healthy company because conditions combined with excellent improvements in we received the White Flag certification by the the production of our company, as a result in 2011 we Mexican Social Security Institute after joinbegan an ambitious three-year expansion program ing their program of surveillance and control of that will strengthen our company as a national pork health, VICORSAT. industry leader. We are still growing steadily. The 2010 was the Our mission covers three key areas: leadership, combest productive year in our history; this compels us mitment to the community and the environment, and to continue on the path of international competithe third aspect, not least important, the development tiveness, sustainability and social inclusion. of our employees. In 2010, we made sure to monitor In the following pages we describe all of the above. the quality of all these aspects of performance that Sincerely made us obtain for the fifth consecutive year the SRC Victor M. Ochoa distinction, improving our score in all indicators. General Director Today, we are a much safer company thanks to the implementation of the ongoing program A.L.E.R.T.A. (Logical Actions to Prevent Accidents and Occupational Hazards); the entire workforce was trained in this matter. This is GCM Granjas Carroll de Mexico (GCM), today at this precise moment in time, is established as a national leader in pork production, it is a Mexican company with international performance standards, socially responsible, incorporating environmentally friendly technologies in their processes. It started operations in 1993; its aim is to offer the market the best quality meat, fulfilling this with all health and environmental standards required by national and international bodies. Considered the most technologically advanced in the country, GCM has For his work philosophy, which includes the continuing search for a Nutrition in one bite metabolism of carbohydrates 16 farms installed in the valleys of Perote and Guadalupe Victoria, a ret 70% pork fat is oleic acid, and helps the nervous system better life for employees and surrounding communities, as well as emwhich ﬁghts cholesterol t11% Potassium, helps regulate gion bordering the states of Veracruz and Puebla, which are continublood pressure, heart and kidphasis on respect and preservation of the environment, Granjas Carroll t21% Phosphorus: develops and maintains healthy bones and ney problems. ously improving husbandry techniques. This translates into an annual de Mexico has been certified for five consecutive years as a Socially teeth, muscle tissue and cell production of one million 200 thousand heads, on average, contributmetabolism Responsible Company. ing with 13% of total pork produced in the country, getting the first t12% Zinc, which develops the immune system The company is composed of an equal partnership between place nationally while ranked 24 worldwide.. t66% Thiamin: involved in the Agroindustrias Unidas de México, S.A. (AMSA): Mexican socially responsible company with more than 150 years of experience in the marketing of agricultural products (Soft Commodities) with divisions in cotton, coffee, cocoa and grains. It recently opened its financial division to support agricultural production. Smithfield Foods: U.S. Company recognized as a worldwide leader in production and marketing of pork, with business in France, Spain, Romania, Poland, USA and Mexico. S us ta in ab ili ty Repo rt GCM 2 0 10 8 9 This is GCM “To be the most profitable pork company, sustainable; and Vision recognized by the markets in which we participate by 2020.” To be leaders in the Mexican pork market by producing the highest quality hogs for the consumer. Mission To keep a high commitment to the community in which we operate, the environment and business productivity. To find all this by making emphasis on personal and family development encouraging our values at all times. S us ta in ab ili ty Repo rt GCM 2 0 10 10 11 This is GCM Values GCM staff behaves and acts towards each other at the workplace Integrity: under the following core values we do the right thing under any circumstance. Responsibility: Innovation: we are responsible for our decision-making and actions, so we accept the we trust our intelligence, discipline and creativity, therefore our work will consequences. always find new and better ways to perform. Respect: Commitment: we treat our colleagues, our company, our customers, suppliers, neighbors and the environwe do our best to stand out as individuals and as employees therefore we exceed our ment as we would like to be treated ourselves. expectations and those of our customers, both internal and external. Attitude: we strongly believe that by keeping an open and positive mind, we can face any situation or Leadership: challenge finding the best possible solutions. we hope that our example will positively influence the immediate environment, in our family and our company, thereby we improve our Discipline quality of life and that well-being transcends across the country. we do our part, when we have to and we do it the best possible way. S us ta in ab ili ty Repo rt GCM 2 0 10 12 13 This is GCM The success of GCM in the long-term depends on the ability to continuWe are committed to: ally improve our environmental performance. t1SPUFDUBOEJNQSPWFFOWJSPONFOUBMDPOEJUJPOTJOPVSTVSSPVOEJOHTBUBMMUJNFT In GCM, environmental care is a value with equal importance to product QQMZ PVS UFDIOJDBM TLJMMT UP BMM FOWJSPONFOUBM BTQFDUT PG PVS PQFSBUJPOT UP NJOJNJ[F PVS JNQBDU PO UIF tion, sales, bio-security and costs. environment We are committed to the well-being of our customers, employees, supEnvironmental The commitments listed are added to our basic obligation in compliance with current laws and regulations in pliers, shareholders and neighbors in the communities where we work the areas where we operate. Policy and live. GCM demands all employees and stakeholders to participate in its activities to maintain a high commitment and visible responsibility in implementing this environmental policy. The Federal Environmental Protection Agency (Profepa) in Veracruz certified us as a Clean Industry and we are working to be certified by Profepa Puebla. S us ta in ab ili ty Repo rt GCM 2 0 10 14 15 This is GCM The staff of Granjas Carroll de Mexico conduct itself under a Code of Ethics that upholds the principles Code of and lines of business performance: integrity, perEthics sonal commitment, company loyalty and transparency in all work-related actions regardless of hierarchical level within the organization. In the last quarter of 2010, the company began its path to another environmental certification, the international: ISO 14001 S us ta in ab ili ty Repo rt GCM 2 0 10 16 17 This is GCM * Attitudes against ethics and morality * Manipulation of production information Reports received in 2010: * Improper behavior of members of the organization during or after working hours The Ethics Committee was created to monitor ethics enforcement; it regulates, moni* Omissions or absence of controls in the processes or procedures tors and evaluates the criteria and standards of professional activities in GCM. Art. 5.The Committee is composed of seven members, they hold office for an equal period to the performance of their duties within Granjas Carroll de Mexico t13&4*%&/51PTJUJPOPDDVQJFECZUIF(FOFSBM%JSFDUPS .7;7JDUPS.BOVFM0DIPB$BMEFSPO t4&$3&5 3:5IF%JSFDUPSPG'JOBODFBOE ENJOJTUSBUJPO $1.BSDP OUPOJP.V×P[.PSFOP t.&.#&34'JWFQPTJUJPOTXJMMCFmMMFECZTUBĄXJUIBOVOCMFNJTIFEXPSLSFDPSE GVMMLOPXMFEHFPGUIFSVMFT and honorable discharge of their duties. In 2010 these positions were filled by Jose Luis Romano Hernández, Anel $PÏMMBS4ÈODIF[ 5JUP5BCMBEB$PSUÏT +VBO$BSMPTEF1FESP0SUFHBBOE«MWBSP#SBWP1FESP;FQFEB 100% of the cases were handled in a period not exceeding 20 days. Reforms to internal controls for different departments were made from these complaints, as well as the creation of five administrative proceedings. S us ta in ab ili ty Repo rt GCM 2 0 10 18 19 This is GCM We take very seriously our responsibility for business decisions and the accuracy of the information proSince the founding of Granjas Carroll de Mexico, its govervided internally and externally. This is the only way the company can grow steadily and we can consoliCorporate date our image. nance and administration have been governed under MexiGovernance can standards following their particular statutes. The General Assembly of Partners determines how the Board of Managers is integrated, which is in turn supported by the different committees: 1. Nomination Committee of Executives and Compensations: Composed of two representatives from both partners and the General Director Based on financial transpar2. Finance and Audit Committee: It is composed of one representative of the Mexican partners, the ency practices, responsibility Director of Finance and Administration and the General Director and high ethical values; The 3. Committee on Environment and Social Responsibility: It is composed of the Manager of Envicompany meets the quality ronment and Energy, Public Relations Manager and the General Director expectations of sharehold4. Purchasing Committee: It is composed of the Director of Finance and Administration, Purchasers, customers, employees ing Manager, the Director of Feed Mill, Veterinary Services Manager, the Production Director and the and other stakeholders. General Directorl The General Director, also elected by the General Assembly of Partners, is evaluated annually by the Board of Managers. S us ta in ab ili ty Repo rt GCM 2 0 10 20 21 This is GCM t26 -*5:0'-*'&*/5)&$0.1 /: CORPORATE t#64*/&44&5)*$4 4645 */ #*-*5: t$0..6/*5:*/70-7&.&/5 t$ 3&'035)&&/7*30/.&/5 Quality Assurance The effort we make every day in our work has paid off. Thanks to the opportune completion of our mission A responsible sustainable company cares to meet the needs by applying our values, we have passed every health and environmental examinations to which we have of the present generation without compromising the needs of been subjected to, we have obtained outstanding results at all times. future generations. In addition the environmental impact of their activities, sustainability takes into account issues ranging from employee satisfaction, quality of its products, the origin of their inputs, to Since 2007, we have been awarded the Sothe social and economic impact that it generates for the development cially Responsible Company recognition by of a country. the Mexican Center for Philanthropy (Cemefi), because we have met the established parameters. The one obtained in 2010 was got with outstanding grades. S us ta in ab ili ty Repo rt GCM 2 0 10 22 23 This is GCM Quality of life in the company In Granjas Carroll de Mexico we know that our most valuable asset is human capital. A fundamental part of our Corporate Responsibility activities is aimed at ensuring the welfare of our employees. Besides the social security benefits, we have ongoing medical care for staff and their immediate families, the implementation of a new security program that debuted in 2010, the ongoing training available to every employee of any area in different areas of interest, scholarships for their children as well as recreational activities and promotion of sport. We believe that those who work at this company have a wide range of possibilities for career development, personal growth and family welfare. In 2010, we invested a total of $ 2’496, 377.97 for this area. Scholarships Training Programs In 2010, GCM focused on training its staff in: Granjas Carroll de Mexico in association with Prestadora de t$PVSTF5IF)BCJUTPG)JHIMZ&ĄFDUJWF1FPQMF Servicios Profesionales y Operativos, SA de CV, and in coort1SPHSBN -&35  -PHJDBM DUJPOTUP1SFWFOU DDJEFOUT dination with the incumbent union of the collective employand Occupational Hazards) ment agreement, CROM, awarded scholarships to children of t8PSLTIPQ&ĄFDUJWF-FBEFSTIJQ workers with academic excellence in the period 2010-2011. t/-1$PVSTF t5FDIOJDBMUSBJOJOHJOWBSJPVTBSFBT They are regular students of any institution in the national t&OHMJTI$MBTTFT education system, public or private, primary, secondary and t'JSTU JEBOE$BSEJP1VMNPOBSZ3FTVTDJUBUJPO high schools, excluding only the education system for adults. t3FGSFTIFSDPVSTFTPOBDDPVOUJOHBOEUBYFT Results: Over 70% of employees received training. 30 scholarships were awarded to unionized employees and 10 for non-unionized employees, financial support consisting of 600 pesos per month is paid bimonthly via bank deposit by electronic transfer and / or check issued by the Payroll department. S us ta in ab ili ty Repo rt GCM 2 0 10 26 27 Q ua lity of life in the compa ny Recreational and Sporting Events As every year, we carry on the following events for employees t 13*- $)*-%3&/}4% :8FFOUFSUBJOFEUIFDIJMESFOPGUIFXPSLFST with a play and a funfair; 1,200 children participated. t. :8FHBWF($.XPSLJOHNPNTBWPVDIFS JUXBTXPSUIQFTPT and could be redeem at a department store, in addition to giving the day off. t46..&34$)00-'03$)*-%3&/5IF%FQBSUNFOUPG&OWJSPONFOUBOE Energy coordinated this event. The Summer School for children of employees of GCM was organized for the second consecutive year, 120 children participated, they were between 6 and 12, ecological issues were taught in a fun learning environment. t)*,*/( 5$PGSFEF1FSPUF MMXPSLFSTBOEUIFJSGBNJMJFTBSFJOWJUFEUP this annual hike, it was held on 6 November and 30 people participated, they got to the top of the volcano. t //6 - $)3*45. 4 %*//&3  8F DFMFCSBUFE $ISJTUNBT XJUI 2,300 attendees. S us ta in ab ili ty Repo rt GCM 2 0 10 28 29 Q ua lity of life in the compa ny Sports activities were: t */5&3/ - 40$$&3 $) .1*0/4)*1  UPUBM PG  FNQMPZFFT NBEF  UFBNT GPS B UPVSOBNFOU UIBU lasted 2 months. t*/5&3/ -# 4,&5# --$) .1*0/4)*1#PUIJONBMFBOEGFNBMFUFBNT XJUIUIFQBSUJDJQBUJPOPGQMBZFST in the tournament which lasted from October to December 2010. A healthy business In GCM we look after the health of our workers and not only physical ones but also occupational ones that is why in 2010, for the first time, we applied the such as tiredness and work habits. The benefit test VICORSAT (Monitoring and Control in Health and was for the entire workforce, 1,007 employees Labor Risks), through this we could obtain a general until August. diagnosis of our staff. Health aspects were evaluated, t($.3VOOFST$MVC$PNQFUJOHJOBOE, BHSPVQPGNFOBOEXPNFOSFQSFTFOUFEVTJO Race Gulf in the port of Veracruz, Veracruz Race AvanRadio in Xalapa, Veracruz We obtained the White Flag 3BDF,JO1VFCMB 1VF Certification because of our t1 35*$*1 5*0/*/5)&.6/*$*1 -$) .1*0/4)*10'5)&40$$&3-& (6&5IFXJOOFSPGUIFJOUFSOBMUPVSOBpositive health indices. ment participated in the Municipal League representing the company and got the first place in the competition. S us ta in ab ili ty Repo rt GCM 2 0 10 30 31 Q ua lity of life in the compa ny Although we have the institutional instruments to avoid unsafe conditions in all areas, such as signage, safe facilities and elements that comA.L.E.R.T.A., ply with national and international regulations, This program is based primarily on prevention: its obSafety First we believe that prevention of extraordinary jective is to measure the risk factors of the working population. It is done in combination with the federal events is everybody’s task. program PREVENIMSS and we will apply it every year. Thus, in accordance with our business ethics, In 2011, at an event organized by the delegawe implemented the program Logical Actions tion of the IMSS in Perote, the white flag certito Prevent Accidents and Occupational fication will be awarded. Hazards (ALERTA), its function is to provide Staff safety has always been our 84% of workers had an optimal blood pressure, knowledge about accident and risk prevention priority. 74% had good cholesterol and triglyceride levels, to over a thousand workers who make up Granand 74% is in good physical condition, while the jas Carroll de Mexico. In 2010 we began the first propensity to diabetes occurred in only 2% of staff. stage of the workforce training, which aims to Tobacco and alcohol consumption is minimal, while raise awareness about situations that involve only 10% are at risk for osteoporosis. risks. A second set of lectures about new issues of equal importance in this area will take place on the last quarter of 2011. S us ta in ab ili ty Repo rt GCM 2 0 10 32 33 Q ua lity of life in the compa ny #VTJOFTT Operation How to make sure that the appropriate preventive The heart of our business is the pig production; measures are carried out in each of the facilities we use a process called “Segregated Early Weanand for each activity? In the first instance, through ing System”. In this process there are three main training, we rely on the responsible behavior of phases that are developed at each specialized each employee. In addition, we make available a site that our farms have: form to record and identify malpractices: the report of “alerts” to the Security Department. We exhort Site I. Farrowing (delivery units) employees to have a more proactive involvement Site II. Nursery (piglet units) to report any anomaly. The international conSite III. Finishing (grow units) sortium Smithfield recognized us as the partners with the best safety measures in August In 2010, a total of 668 936 different stage 2011, because of the performance shown in pigs were housed in 72 modules that make up 2010 and the ALERTA program. the farms. S us ta in ab ili ty Repo rt GCM 2 0 10 34 A strict bio security scheme ensures We have a feed mill that processed 372 627 metric tons last year. This is how we can directly monitor the protection of animal health. This the healthy nutrition of our animals. The balance of ingredients is set according to the role and stages is an internal regulation, which is folof life: nutritional requirements are different for pregnant sows, lactating sows and boars, or between lowed to the letter by each and evearly weaned piglets, growing piglets, growing pigs and finishing pigs. Therefore we produce 13 differery one of those who integrate GCM, ent types of feed, to which vitamins (A, B, C and D) and minerals (calcium, phosphorus and sodium) are it is essential to respect this scheme added to ensure optimal development. in order to maintain the quality of our final product. 800 tons of grain a day, processed into pellets, is needed to meet the feed needs of our herd S us ta in ab ili ty Repo rt GCM 2 0 10 36 37 Busine ss E thics Pork Consumption per capita in Mexico is 14 kilograms per year Source: SAGARPA Sales 2010, the most productive year for GCM Report We reached record numbers last year. We started 2011 with the same momentum, and also with many expectations because we are growing and we Our main customers are in the states of Chiapas, GuanajuaComparison: 2009 2010 are constantly improving our processes. to, Guerrero, Hidalgo, Morelos, Oaxaca, Puebla, Tabasco, Supreme 92.9% 94.2% Tender 3% 1.6% Over a period of 12 months we achieved to sell our Tlaxcala and Veracruz, but especially the Federal District Cocktail 4.1% 4.2% total production 1 million 147 thousand 287 and Mexico State, with 86.74% of total sales. Our fleet, pigs for national consumption, surpassing the consisting of 28 transport units, made 6,852 shipments estimated budget by 21 075 animals. This translaand traveled 3 million 653 thousand 673 kilometers. tes into 133 millions 790 thousand 495 kilograms of meat put on the market, this number exceeds that of 2009 by 14 million 433 thousand 564 kilograms. The average weight of sold pigs was 116.61 kilograms, higher than the average weight in 2009, whose average was 114.28 S us ta in ab ili ty Repo rt GCM 2 0 10 38 39 Busine ss E thics The Win-Win philosophy is key Interest to the success for GCM Groups Surrounding communities: Residents of communities in the region where we operate Organizations: Organized groups of civil society Suppliers: Regional and national companies, and large international companies Although livestock is the reason why the company exGovernment: National, state and municipal Private Associations: ists, the great chain of command which is linked to comt AMEPA (Mexican Association of Food Prot Veracruz Pig Farmers Livestock Agency AC, pose our production cycle (such as agro industry and External ducers AC), t National Organism of Swine Certification and Verification AC, t CNA (National Agricultural Council), t Mexican Hog Farmers Confederation AC, other derivative services such as shipping) is of vital t Canacintra Puebla and Xalapa (Nationt Fomexporc (Promoting Consumption of Pork), importance. That is why the human factor plays a major al Chamber of Transformation Industries), t Conafab (National Council of Feed Manufacturers and Anit AIEVAC (Industrialists Association of the mal Nutrition AC) role in the organization and is divided as follows: State of Veracruz), t$BNFYB (German-Mexican Chamber of Commerce and Int Puebla Association of Pork Producers AC, dustry AC) Workers: 1,050 employees, our families and the union Internal Owners: Agroindustrias Unidas de Mexico and Smithfield Foods Clients: TIF slaughter houses and butcher shops that prepare the meat GCM staff of volunteers, composed of some of our stakeholders, participaThe company’s growth parallels the personal growth achieved by every employee who enters the ranks of this tes in activities to preserve the ecocompany. Meanwhile, the quality of our products determines the preference of our customers, establishing logical environment and rural devefrom this moment a business relationship with a high sense of mutual responsibility. Aware of the above, the lopment that concern us as a Socially partners, AMSA and Smithfield Foods bet all decisions on the highest standards, this leads to the complete Responsible Company. achievement of our mission. S us ta in ab ili ty Repo rt GCM 2 0 10 40 41 Busine ss E thics Production Director Secretary How are Service Manager (5) Selection and quarantine of gilts Veterinary Services Management Assistant made Up? Site Manager (5) Board Technical The company consists of interdependent areas acStud Veterinary Manager Services Acclimatization cording to their different objectives. Our organization Supervisor Gestation Breeding Supervisor Insemination Vaccination Slaughter Supervisor Supervisor Bio Security and Field Chemist´s Supervisor Supervisor Wean to Supervisor House chart, until the end of 2010, worked as follows: Sites 2 (18) Site 3 (18) (1) Tests (1) (14) (14) Finish(23) (1) Inspector Coordinator Deliveryman Bio Security Pregnancy Receipt Ayudante Helper Helper Ayudante Helper Ayudante Helper Ayudante Helper Ayudante Helper Ayudante Vaccinators Lab Helper Cleaning Helper of Semen Washer Helper Inspector (18) (2) of Samples Staff (2) Doses (2) (2) General Director Executive Assitant Administration Sales Public Veterinary Human Production Feed Mill Environment Maintenance and Finance and Transport Relations Services Resources Feed Mill Director Director Director Management Management Director Director Manager Manager Manager Purchases Feed Quality Maintenance Manufacturing and Logistics Shipment Manager Manager Manager Manager Coordinator Commodities Quality of Projects and Distribution General Inputs and Manufacturing Direction and Special Construction Center Inputs Spare Parts Supervisor Assistant Ingredients Processes Coordinator Chief Buyer buyer of Purchases buyer Supervisor Maintenance Receipt Dispatch Supervisor Supervisor Supervisor Customer Console Tank truck Inputs Warehouse Lab helper Lab analyst Janitor Senior Lubrication Scales Receipt Manufacturing Feed Vehicles Floor worker Service Supervisor Operator Operator deliveryman Mechanic Assistant Operator Helper Dispatcher Washer Operator Assistant S us ta in ab ili ty Repo rt GCM 2 0 10 42 43 Busine ss E thics Director of Finance and Administration Maintenance Department General Manager Messenger General Reception Security Internal Organizational Human PRESPO Training General Production Farms General Resources General and Industrial Quality Maintenance Alarms Audit Development Comptroller Supervisor Administrative Manager Accountant safety Assurance Supervisor Assistant Accounting Costs Chief Analyst Recruitment Auxiliary Alarm Internal and Personnel Training Sistems Helper Installing Auditors Selection Assistant Electrician Welder Technician Construction Executive supervisor Assistant Welder Specialist General Security Payrolls Accounting Systems Technician Assistant General Supervisor Assistant Assistant Assistant Helper General Assistant Specialist General Alarms Helper Helper General Workshop Personnel Farms General Radio Scales Security Cleaning Data Maintenance Personnel Staff Tank truck Cleaning Motor Grader Operator Operator Guards entry clerk Operator Staff Operator Sales and Transport Director Public Relations Manager Environmental Department Executive Assistant Administrative Crew Sales Transport Assistant Supervisor Supervisor Supervisor Environmental Regulations Construction Transport Truck Management Coordinator Coordinator Coordinator Coordinator Agency and Administrative Mobilization Maintenance Assistant Assistant Coordinator Social Chief of Community Communications Environmental Involvement Doctors Matters Coordinator Supervisors Coordinator Slaughter Transport Shipment House Transfer Bus Wash Truck Coordinator Supervisor Operator Operator Supervisor Operator Nurse Workers Assistant Transfer Lavador Shipper Loader Helper S us ta in ab ili ty Repo rt GCM 2 0 10 44 45 Busine ss E thics Community Involvement In 2010, we created a foundation that allows us to institutionalize, specialize and expand the programs we performed for the benefit of the inhabitants of the communities. Through the GCM Foundation we have started alliances with companies and institutions to increase the number of actions to benefit education, health, sports, recreation, culture, community development and environmental care. In 2010, we invested a total of $ 6’442, 730.43 for this area. Participatory rural development, a new stage Community development requires a great effort and are persist. This participatory rural appraisal, conenthusiastic cooperation of the parties. As part of the ducted for five months in 2010, marked a turning programs to improve the quality of life around us, a point in the cyclical history of our company: apThe actions have begun to materialize in specific t363 -%&7&-01.&/5 focus on the surrounding communities was projected plying other community involvement mechanisms projects, planned in accordance with our participa$0..6/*5: t)& -5) under a proven methodology. based on individual needs. tory rural development projects and the work we */70-7&.&/5 t&/7*30/.&/5 -$ 3& have been developing for years. t&%6$ 5*0/ We conducted a study in communities of Veracruz and Puebla, those where the backwardness and poverty S us ta in ab ili ty Repo rt GCM 2 0 10 48 49 Community I nvolve me nt At GCM we seek to strengthen the capacities of producers and promote the full participation of the community. Applying a long term action plan, we intend to include other communities, giving feedback to the model and seeking to establish permanent projects that meet business goals for its participants. We detected that the main causes that lead to stagnation in productive and social levels are middlemen, pests and crop diseases, droughts and the lack of equipment. Field research allowed us to know the needs of each area, their strengths and weaknesses. At each place we talked with members of the cooperatives, civil authorities and community representatives, this was how we could design a specific action plan for each group and each village. These workshops, lectures, courses and anything else that provides tools for the agricultural worker, the goat producer, housewives and even children can develop their skills and implement the lessons learned in his daily life in order to contribute to productivity growth, economic and social development of their regions. The self-sustainable development is the key to start improving quality of life levels S us ta in ab ili ty Repo rt GCM 2 0 10 50 51 Community I nvolve me nt Community Development Report Participatory Rural Development Support to government institutions t %FWFMPQNFOU PG 3VSBM QQSBJTBM CZ TUVEZJOH t%POBUJPOPGWFTUTUPUIF.VOJDJQBM5SBąD communities Delegation t5SBJOJOHGPSUIFQSPEVDUJPOPGPSHBOJDGFSUJMJ[FST t%POBUJPOJOLJOEUPUIF%FMFHBUJPOPGUIF'FEt5SBJOJOHJOCBDLZBSEWFHFUBCMFHBSEFOT eral Preventive Police (PFP) t#FFLFFQJOH8PSLTIPQ t3FQBJS4FSWJDFPGBHBSCBHFUSVDL Donations t%POBUJPOPGSPBETJHOT t%POBUJPOPGPSHBOJDGFSUJMJ[FS DFSEB[B t%POBUJPOPGOBUJWFTFFE In-kind support for fiestas t%POBUJPOPGQVNQTGPSDPNNVOJUJFTPG7FCreation and maintenance racruz and Puebla of community roads Farming by Contract Donation to ´Jugueton´ S us ta in ab ili ty Repo rt GCM 2 0 10 52 53 Community I nvolve me nt Christmas Posada in Frijol Colorado, municiCampaign to raise awareness about the importance of food donaQBMJUZPG1FSPUF 7FSBDSV[  tions on an ongoing basis among the patients who are receiving t%POBUJPOPGQBOUSZTUBQMFT medical treatment from the State Center for Cancer (CECAN) located t%POBUJPOPGUPZT QJ×BUBTBOEDBOEZ in Xalapa, Veracruz (Contribution to the program “Donate a can”). $BNQBJHOi8JOUFSJOUIF7BMMFZ 4VNNFSJO UIF)FBSUw t%POBUJPOPGCMBOLFUT XJOUFSDMPUIFTBOETXFFUT t%POBUJPOTJOLJOEUP'PPE#BOL. / Pig Donation Agreement Support for construction projects t %POBUJPO PG NFBU BOE PUIFS JOQVUT UP SFUJSFNFOU t6SCBOJOGSBTUSVDUVSFGPSQVCMJDFWFOUT home Sayago in Xalapa and Grandma’s House in Puebla t4JEFXBMLTBOEQBWJOHPGSPBETFDUJPOT In-kind support for the project in the comSupport and consulting for craft productive NVOJUZ&M1BJTBOP NVOJDJQBMJUZPG-BT7Jprojects HBT 7FSBDSV[ Donations in kind to those affected by )VSSJDBOF,BSMJO7FSBDSV[DPBTUT NVOJDJpality of Paso de Ovejas S us ta in ab ili ty Repo rt GCM 2 0 10 54 55 Community I nvolve me nt Getting Medicaments donations Donations of medicaments through by laboratories such as Pfizer, Bayer, DIF and State secretariats of Health of Veracruz and Puebla. Generating alliances and strengthening the value chain Health The Company provides free medical consultations in the Health Houses installed We worked with Pfizer Laboratories using the mobile unit, this led to the in 14 communities in the states of Puebla and Veracruz with its medical staff, Care early detection of chronic-degenerative diseases in 12 communities of consisting of two doctors and a nurse. They developed the following actions: Veracruz, benefiting 2 500 people Puebla and Vera PROGRAMS: Campaign on Early Detection of Cervical A total of 11,735 medical consultations in Cancer (D.O.C.) 2010 t.FEJDBMDPOTVMUBUJPOTJO7FSBDSV[ 126 tests of hybrids were administered 6,679 t%POBUJPOPG WBHJOBMNJSSPSTUPUIF4BOJUBSZ+Vt.FEJDBMDPOTVMUBUJPOTJO1VFCMB risdiction Number V of the State of Veracruz 5,056 t3FGFSSJOHQBUJFOUTUPUIF.FEJDBM$FOUFSGPS$BODFS t2VBMJUZPGNFEJDBMTFSWJDF (CECAN) t.BJOUFOBODFBOE3FIBCJMJUBUJPOPG/VSTJOH t1BZNFOUPGUSBWFMFYQFOTFTUPUSFBUFEQBUJFOUT )PNFT t)FBMUIUSBJOJOHGPSUIFTUBĄ The Hybrid Detection Technique was introduced S us ta in ab ili ty Repo rt GCM 2 0 10 56 57 Community I nvolve me nt Cataract Operations 50 people benefited from surgery, intraocular lens and travel expenses, in coordination with the Club de Leones Costa de Oro and the Regional Hospital of Veracruz Exercise in communities program From the second semester of the year, physical fit%FOUBM)FBMUI$BNQBJHO;FSP$BSJFT ness is being taught in two communities in Veracruz, It was applied in elementary schools in the following communities: Xaltepec, Orilla del Monte, Frijol Colora;BMBZFUBBOE9BMUFQFD*UIBTCFOFmUFEQFPQMFBGdo and Guadalupe Victoria, Ver. 750 children had the ter a complete medical evaluation benefit of fluoride application, awareness talks and $BNQBJHOGPS)FBSJOH JET toothbrushes we sponsored medical evaluations in combination /VUSJUJPO5BMLTi-FUGPPECFUIZNFEJDJOFw with state and municipal DIF systems, benefiting the We advice 160 attendees on healthy eating habits general public with 100 hearing aids with the help of a student from the Nutrition School, she is part of the GCM volunteering. S us ta in ab ili ty Repo rt GCM 2 0 10 58 59 Community I nvolve me nt In education, we have honored our SRC distinction by GCM gives students from the following institutions the opportunity to do these Support for performing the following actions: activities: Social Service, professional practices, graduate and master´s thesis Education t#FOFNÏSJUB6OJWFSTJEBE VUØOPNBEF1VFCMB t*OTUJUVUP5FDOPMØHJDPEF5F[JVUMÈO t6OJWFSTJEBE7FSBDSV[BOB t6OJWFSTJEBE UFOBT7FSBDSV[BOB t*OTUJUVUP5FDOPMØHJDP4VQFSJPSEF9BMBQB t*OTUJUVUP5FDOPMØHJDP4VQFSJPSEF1FSPUF t6OJWFSTJEBEEF9BMBQB t$FOUSPEF#BDIJMMFSBUP5FDOPMØHJDP HSPQFDVBSJP Support in kind and cash for schools t*OTUJUVUP5FDOPMØHJDPEF5FQFBDB t#BDIJMMFSFT(FOFSBM.BOVFM3JODØO t $POTUSVDUJPO NBUFSJBMT GPS CVJMEJOH B DMBTTSPPN UP t6OJWFSTJEBEEF5FDBNBDIBMDP benefit children with motor disabilities t*OTUJUVUP5FDOPMØHJDPEF-JCSFT t4VQQPSUGPSUSBOTQPSUBUJPOGPSTDIPPMUSJQT t4VQQPSUGPSNFBMT Inter sectors alliances in education t%POBUJPOPGCPPLT t6/$ %&3 t%POBUJPOPGQBJOUGPSNVSBMT t$#5B t%POBUJPOPGQJHTGPSTDIPPMQBSUJFT t67 t3FIBCJMJUBUJPOPGTDIPPMT DMBTTSPPNT TQPSUTmFMET  t*/&$0restrooms, fences, sidewalks) Drawing competition with children of workers in GCM %JĄFSFOU4VQQPSUTGPSUIF)PVTFPG$VMUVSF S us ta in ab ili ty Repo rt GCM 2 0 10 60 61 Community I nvolve me nt Recycling Campaign (PET) in schools Making ecological stoves Workshop t%POBUJPOPGFDPMPHJDBMTUPWFT The environment in which Granjas Carroll de Mexico operates is a priority, so that the projects implemenEnvironmental ted in 2010 were: Care Donation of trees (endemic species) Support for national parks: Cofre de Perote and Pico de Orizaba t%POBUJPOPGNBJ[FTFFE 3BOHFST t%POBUJPOPGDPNQVUFSFRVJQNFOUBOEGVSOJUVSF t4VQQPSUGPSXPSLJOHFRVJQNFOU Agreement INECOL-GCM t4UVEZBOEQSFTFSWBUJPOPGUIFFOEFNJDTRVJSSFMJO Valle de Perote S us ta in ab ili ty Repo rt GCM 2 0 10 62 63 Community I nvolve me nt Care for the Environment In 2010, $ 47’765, 894.00 was allocated for actions related to environmental care, the largest historic budget allocated to this area. Continuous Improvement Actions t$POTUSVDUJPOPGFWBQPSBUJPOMBHPPOT at sites: 17-3A, 17-3D and 15-1 t$POTUSVDUJPOPGSFDZDMJOHMJOFTGSPN UIF TJUF  UP %  '  ) and 15-3G Thanks to our philosophy of sustainable growth After four years of being audited and having demonand commitment to environment care, in 2009 we strated compliance with action plans which included became the first pork company in the country to corrective and preventive measures suggested by the obtain the Clean Industry Certification awarded by environmental authority, in 2009 we obtained the the Veracruz Profepa Delegation. Profepa certification for the farms located in Veracruz, while for the ones located in Puebla we are in the final GCM joined the National Environmental Audit Prostage of compliance with the federal standards. gram in 2005 in order to obtain the certification; this program is administered by the Federal EnOur immediate goal is to obtain the Clean Industry vironmental Protection Agency. The facilities we certification for the farms located in Puebla. We are had at that time were: eight farms in the state of also looking forward to ratifying the certification obVeracruz (1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 10, 11 and 13) and five in the tained in 2009 for Veracruz and incorporating our state of Puebla (6, 7, 8, 9 and 12). more recent farms (15, 16 and 17) and the Maintenance Workshop into the Environmental Audit Program in order to obtain the same certification. S us ta in ab ili ty Repo rt GCM 2 0 10 66 67 E nvironme nt Ca re Conservation Environmental Areas Campaign Our nursery covers 2,500 m2 in a private Granjas Carroll joined environmental actions led by the Veracruz State conservation area of 28 hectares on a DIF on September 6, 2007. From this date we started a permanent campiece of land adjacent to one of our farms, paign of collecting and storing paper and batteries in the company, the it kept its pace of growth and 22 sites in Department of Environment is in charge of the program. In this context Puebla and Veracruz were reforested the following actions were implemented in 2010: with the plants grown in it. We also allocated a percentage of the trees of the six t#PYFTEPOBUFECZ%*'XFSFQMBDFEBUTUSBUFHJDQPJOUTXJUIJOUIFDPNspecies we grow (white cedar, stone pine, pany, these serve the purpose of collecting paper. Paper is shipped to montezumae pine, spreading-leaved pine, the facilities of International Paper every three months, this company willow tree and Chinese elm) for donations deals with its recycling. The batteries are delivered at the offices of the to surrounding regions. System for Family Integral Development in the state of Veracruz, which Number of new plants (born in 2010) 25,466 We participate in environsends them to a company that specializes in safe disposal of this waste plants: mental studies such as the 22,438 Stone Pine to avoid environmental damage. registration of meteorological 3,000 Spreading-leaved pine variables and the wind measuWithin the environmental management system, we also contemplate 117.79 hectares reforested in 2010 rement for wind energy generation, in coordination with the control of electronic waste that might be produced in the company. GCM Sites 129,569 plants academic institutions dedicaDonations to lands belonging to *OXFQBSUJDJQBUFEJOUIFi3FDJDMØOw UIJTQSPHSBNBMMPXFEUIFDPM9,650 plants cooperatives and municipalities ted to do world-class research: lection of obsolete electronic equipment in order to proceed to its deEvent: World Environment Day 800 plants 6OJWFSTJEBE7FSBDSV[BOB struction by sending it to the specialized company REMSA. Remove the TOTAL: 140, 019 plants planted 6/ . Plants on sites Instituto de Investigaciones rest of the paragraph from where it says “This year 2011 ...” TOTAL: 129,569 Eléctricas S us ta in ab ili ty Repo rt GCM 2 0 10 68 69 E nvironme nt Ca re We joined the UN Initiative Sustainable Productive Process The treatment lagoons The participation of GCM staff of volunteers in reThe system of wastewater treatment of our facilities forestation campaigns in our region of interest to consists of four stages: celebrate the World Environment Day, established on June 5th by the United Nations, has become an The first stage takes place inside the farm, where important tradition in our company. pig excreta passes through the slotted floor (slats) and falls into the “pit” or “flooded pit”, built of masonIn 2010, about 100 people (including suppliers, emry, this deposit is 0.30 m deep, that is the same width ployees, customers and GCM partners) focused on and length of the pens where the pigs live. Sewage planting 800 plants of the species white cedar and water is kept here to disintegrate excreta and facilistone pine, in the area near the San Carlos Fortress, tate bacteria to digest organic matter, and also to fawhich is a historical symbol of the city of Perote. cilitate its transport to the next stage of treatment. S us ta in ab ili ty Repo rt GCM 2 0 10 70 71 E nvironme nt Ca re The second stage is carried out in a primary lagoon or an anaerobic digester, which is a square shaped structure dug into the ground and it is coated with a high density polyethylene membrane, it The third stage takes place in a secondary or recycling lagoon where the treated wastewater is stored. When is 1.52 mm width; the top is also coated with a membrane, so it forms a closed container or tank comthese lagoons are built, a layer of compacted clay material (0.60 m thick) is essential to prevent water from infiltrapletely waterproof. ting into the ground. From this lagoon the treated water is pumped back into the buildings to flood the “pits” again. Since it is exposed to the environment, the secondary lagoon allows the evaporation of a small amount of water. The discharge pipes of the “pits” are connected to the digester, its task is to facilitate the natural fermentation or degradation of organic matter, which occurs in the absence of oxygen. The growth and The fourth stage takes place in the evaporation lagoon; it has a much larger area and less depth. Its main proliferation of methanogenic anaerobic bacteria transform the waste, the final product is a comfunction is to facilitate the excess water in the system to evaporate back to the atmosphere. bustible gas called biogas, natural gas, marsh gas or methane (CH4). As a result there is also a small amount of carbon dioxide (CO2), an effluent enriched in nutrients bio available to plants, and organic stabilized matter. The water is kept in the digester from 35 to 40 days. S us ta in ab ili ty Repo rt GCM 2 0 10 72 73 E nvironme nt Ca re Collecting of Methane Another vital aspect of our production system is the collecting of the methane produced by our pigs through the aforementioned system of digesters. Once organic waste is converted into liquids and gases, once they are separated, the next step is to burn the biogas to avoid polluting emissions into the atmosphere. Our goal is to use the methane as a power source that supplies all our farms. We have a pilot project; two sites are already being illuminated from the gas produced. We are a social ecological company We donate a useful sub product to groups of producers in the communities, organic fertilizer, it is obtained by having completed the process of treating organic waste in the lagoons of our farms. Su sta i n a bi l i ty Re p o r t G C M 2 0 1 0 74
