SABMiller plc Sustainable Development Summary Report 2012 Generating inclusive growth  SABMiller plc Sustainable Development Summary Report 2012 About SABMiller plc SABMiller plc is one of the world’s largest brewers with brewing interests and distribution agreements across six continents The group’s wide portfolio includes global brands such as Pilsner Urquell, Peroni Nastro Azzurro, Miller Genuine Draft and Grolsch as well as leading local brands such as Águila, Castle, Miller Lite, Snow, Tyskie and Victoria Bitter. SABMiller is also one of the world’s largest bottlers of Coca-Cola products. In 2012 our group revenue was US$31,388 million with earnings before interest, tax, amortisation and exceptional items (EBITA) of US$5,634 million and lager volumes of 229 million hectolitres. Group revenue +11% 2012: US$31,388m 2011: US$28,311m EBITA +12% 2012: US$5,634m 2011: US$5,044m Lager volumes +5% 2012: 229m hectolitres 2011: 218m hectolitres Boundary and scope of this report This report covers the financial year ended 31 March 2012. Operations are included in this report on the basis of management control by SABMiller. Our US joint venture, MillerCoors, is also included. Our economic interest in MillerCoors is reflected when reporting quantitative key environmental performance indicators. A list of the operations covered in this report is available on page 21. Angola, Russia and Ukraine are no longer included following changes to strategic alliances this year which means that SABMiller companies no longer have management control. We aim to include new acquisitions or market entries within two years. This year SABMiller acquired Carlton and United Breweries (CUB), the Australian beverage business of Foster’s Group Limited, which will be included in the 2013 report. Where we hold a minority share in an alliance or partnership, we engage with our partners on sustainable development issues. This year Delta Corporation Ltd in Zimbabwe is included in this report for the first time. Information on our business partners can be found at www.sabmiller.com/sd Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) This report has been produced in accordance with the GRI G3 guidelines and meets the requirements of the B+ application. Our GRI content index can be found at www.sabmiller.com/sdreporting United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) This document forms our progress report against the 10 principles of the UNGC and the UNGC CEO Water Mandate. Further information is available at www.sabmiller.com/sdreporting UN Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) SABMiller supports the MDGs and seeks to make a meaningful contribution to their achievement in the communities in which it operates. FTSE4Good and Johannesburg Stock Exchange Socially Responsible Investment Index SABMiller is a member of the FTSE4Good and the Johannesburg Stock Exchange Socially Responsible Investment Index (reflecting the listing of shares in both the UK and South Africa), as well as other relevant indices used by the investment community. SABMiller plc Sustainable Development Summary Report 2012 1 Contents This summary report explains the key sustainability challenges facing SABMiller and how we integrate sustainable development into our business 2 Joint statement by the chairman of CARAC and 14 Beer in society the Chief Executive Combating alcohol abuse and ensuring strong commercial governance Our progress and performance are overseen by the corporate accountability and risk assurance committee of the board (CARAC) 3 Stakeholder commentary We work in partnership with a wide range of stakeholders to drive progress across our value chain 4 Overview of our 10 priorities Our 10 priorities help us to focus on the issues most material to our local businesses and to make sustainable development part of everything we do 6 Generating inclusive growth Our businesses create jobs, pay taxes, develop local skills and encourage enterprise 8 Our economic contribution 17 An employer of choice Stimulating economic development in the communities in which Succeeding by valuing and empowering our employees we operate 20 Integrating sustainable development into business planning 11 The water-food-energy nexus Our 10 priorities provide a robust, rigorous and transparent Working in partnership to tackle the water and resource challenges framework for managing sustainable development across shared by our businesses and the communities in which we work our business 21 Assurance and commentary 2012 summary report SABMiller has commissioned Corporate Citizenship to provide an expert view on the quality of reporting and the progress made during the year 22 Further reports and contacts Key publications are available at www.sabmiller.com/sdreports The full online SABMiller Sustainable Development SAM tool Report includes information on the progress we have Learn more about our performance through the Sustainability made against each of our 10 sustainable development Assessment Matrix (SAM) scorecards for our operations. priorities along with additional performance data and www.sabmiller.com/sam case studies, position papers on each of the sustainable development priorities and reports on specific issues. Annual Report For an overview of our markets and operations, Both the full report and this summary can be found at please refer to our Annual Report. www.sabmiller.com/sd www.sabmiller.com/annualreport 2 SABMiller plc Sustainable Development Summary Report 2012 Joint statement by the chairman of CARAC and the Chief Executive Our progress and performance are overseen by the corporate accountability and risk assurance committee of the board (CARAC) main drivers of SABMiller’s future growth. This year, two of our fastestgrowing regions were Africa and Latin America which saw lager volumes increasing on an organic basis by 13% and 8% respectively. At the same time, this growth will place further demands on the world’s finite resources. Business, government and civil society must therefore work together to develop practical, local solutions that generate inclusive growth while conserving water and energy and managing the use of land. Dambisa Moyo, chairman of CARAC Graham Mackay, Chief Executive Businesses are well placed to innovate and drive efficiencies. SABMiller has extensive programmes in place that aim to improve water and energy Generating inclusive growth efficiency and reduce waste in our breweries. This year our water ratio – Around the world, we work to build strong local businesses that contribute the amount of water required to produce a hectolitre of lager – decreased to their local economies. We do this by producing high-quality products from 4.2 hl/hl in 2011 to 4.0 hl/hl, a 5% improvement. Our carbon ratio which consumers choose and enjoy every day. – the carbon emissions generated per hectolitre of lager produced – fell from 13.8 kgCO2e in 2011 to 12.4 kgCO2e, a 10% improvement. Beer is a local business and the success of SABMiller is inextricably linked to the wellbeing of the communities in which we operate. Recognising But simply focusing on our internal operations is not enough if we want that we are part of the fabric of society, we seek to generate ‘inclusive to secure adequate water, energy and agricultural supplies for our breweries. growth’ – in other words, to build value chains that drive economic This report details a number of partnerships we have built with governments, growth and stimulate social development while using scarce natural non-governmental organisations (NGOs) and academic institutions to resources efficiently. In this way, we can generate long-term returns tackle the sustainable development challenges we face – examples being for our business while also creating wealth for our local communities. the Strategic Water Partnership Network in South Africa and our extensive smallholder farming programmes across Africa and India. Our direct economic value creation during the year amounted to US$23,921 million, which, both directly and through economic multipliers, makes a Addressing societal challenges significant contribution to livelihoods around the world (see page 8). Each day our beers are enjoyed by millions of consumers. There is, sadly, a small minority of consumers who do not drink responsibly and who pose Managing sustainable development a risk to themselves, their families and their communities. Alcohol abuse ‘Constantly raising the profitability of local businesses, sustainably’ is one and associated societal issues such as violence, drunk-driving, underage of SABMiller’s four strategic priorities. Sustainable development is therefore drinking and the impact on non-communicable diseases are a cause of integral to the way we do business. Underpinning our approach are our concern around the world. 10 sustainable development priorities which inform how we focus our efforts and prioritise our resources. At a global level, we focus particularly We recognise that we, along with the wider community, have a role to on the three areas most material to our business: alcohol responsibility, play in tackling alcohol abuse. We uphold high standards in all aspects of water and enterprise development in our value chain. alcohol production and consumption and we work with partners around the world to encourage responsible drinking, remind consumers about Progress is measured through our Sustainability Assessment Matrix (SAM). the impact of alcohol-related harm and address the wider societal issues During the year, the group’s average SAM score increased from 2.9 to 3.2 resulting from alcohol abuse. as our local businesses addressed the sustainable development issues most material to their particular markets. Winning sustainably The greatest contribution we make to the economies in which we operate This progress would not be possible without the talented and dedicated is to run successful, profitable businesses that create jobs, pay taxes and individuals who drive the business forward. Our people are our enduring stimulate local enterprise while making efficient use of limited resources. advantage and SABMiller’s success is founded on our 70,000 employees across six continents. This report contains examples of how individuals are The resource and societal challenges we jointly face with local working to improve our business and create value for their communities. communities are complex and interconnected. SABMiller does not have all the answers and we know that we will not find them on our The growing resource challenge own. Nevertheless, we have made progress and have built expertise in There are currently two billion middle-class consumers in the world and the areas such as managing water risk. By sharing knowledge and working number could reach five billion by 20301 – much of the increase coming collaboratively with our stakeholders, we are confident we can deliver from emerging and developing markets. We see this trend as one of the innovative solutions at a local level. Our vision A focused approach to sustainable To be the most admired company in development management the global beer industry Alcohol Enterprise Global focus areas responsibility Water development in our value chains Regional focus areas Energy/carbon HIV/Aids CSI Continual improvement Transparency Human rights Waste Packaging and ethics 1 The emerging middle class in developing countries, Homi Kharas, OECD Development Centre Working Paper No. 285, January 2010. ‘Middle class’ is defined as having daily per capita spending of US$10 to US$100. SABMiller plc Sustainable Development Summary Report 2012 3 Stakeholder commentary We work in partnership with a wide range of stakeholders to drive progress across our value chain identified Unless we show due res WWF is encouraged by the way SABMiller has pect and change the wa y we behave ss issue. This is not just corporate towards water usage, water as a critical busine we will face significant challenges into of their the future regarding our social responsibility; this is about the essence water securit y and sec urit y of supply. with strong This may have dire con business. As a global company that operates sequences on our ability to grow our need to address economy and create dec local operations, SABMiller has identified the ent jobs. Every user has the culture care for the resource and a dut y of water security and resilience in a way that maps to use water efficiently to avoid the water locally negative impact on our of the company. This has led them to address food securit y and our ability to is, generate the energy we around the world, reflecting the reality that water need to drive econom ic growth. above all, a local issue. We need to become a water-conscious countr a collective responsibility y; we have David Nussbaum to preser ve and protec t our water resources for the benefit Chief Executive of WWF – UK of present and future gen I congratulate SABMiller erations. and SAB (Pt y) Ltd on the through the Strategic Wa ir leadership ter Par tnership Netwo this par tnership we hop rk. Through e to drive collaboration business and governme between nt in order to make mo available so that, across re water South Africa, we can gro economy and create mo w our The private sector has enormous re jobs. impacts on poor countries and communities, but these impa cts go largely unmeasured Minister Edna Molew and under-reported. Oxfam Ame a rica embarked on a poverty Minister of Water and footprint analysis with SABMiller and The Coca-Cola Company Environmental Affairs to raise awareness about these impa cts all along the value South Africa chain, from farmer to consumer. As a condition of this collaboration, the companies agre ed to a public report and engagement with stakeholders arou nd the recommendations. While the outcome of that engagem ent remains to be seen, SABMiller is to be congratulated for its willingness to embark on this forward-looking collabora tion. program is The Bavaria Foundation’s entrepreneurship Ray Offenheiser tant private and integrated initiative undoubtedly the most impor President reneu rship in Colom bia. Connecting that suppo rts entrep Oxfam America Bavar ia’s Entrep reneu rs Network entrepreneurs throughout the creati on of the Angel Invest ing Netwo rk are unique Read about the progress made agai and development of recommendations on page 10. nst these and historic milestones in the entrepreneurial count ry. They are chara cterize d by innova ting creative and the differentiated instruments . Camilo Montes Director of Business Development Ministry of Commerce Farm Africa knows that the key to ending hunger and growing Industry and Tourism prosperity in rural Africa is to act as a bridge between African Colombia smallholder farmers, the government and the private sector. Farm Africa brings different sectors together, building a dialogue and finding innovative sustainable solutions that increase the income of individuals and fit with the needs of business. We are working with SABMiller’s South Sudan We are delighted to count SABMiller among Beverages to provide a guaranteed market for cassava the initiators of the Responsible Marketing Pact, a new Europ grown by local farmers, effectively converting this crop ean initiative by major beer, wine and spirits producers in WFA’s from subsistence into a cash crop, so building incomes for membership to set common standards preventing alcohol farmers, and improving the local economy. Farm Africa sees marketing to minors. SABMiller played a key role in bringi working together in partnership as vital in building a vibrant ng together, for the first time, leading companies from all alcohol African economy and addressing the global challenge of sectors to seek unified responsibility standards: a turning point food security. in self-regulation. As a ‘commitment’ to the EU’s Alcohol and Health Nigel Harris Forum, the initiative will be subject to independent monit Chief Executive oring and public reporting. WFA looks forward to workin Farm Africa g closely with SABMiller and our other partners in implementing this commitment. Stephan Loerke Managing Director World Federation of Adver tisers 4 SABMiller plc Sustainable Development Summary Report 2012 Overview of our 10 priorities Our 10 priorities help us to focus on the issues most material to our local businesses and to make sustainable development part of everything we do Our 10 sustainable development priorities Our approach is flexible enough to allow our local operations to invest their resources in the issues most relevant to them in their own markets. provide a strong framework, offering clarity to our local operations and demonstrating Twice a year, each business is required to provide data relating to each of our 10 priorities through our bespoke management system, the Sustainability our commitment to shareholders and other Assessment Matrix (SAM) – see page 20. Performance is assessed against five levels of performance, from a minimum standard (level one) to leading edge stakeholders on issues material to our business. (level five). We require all our businesses, as a minimum, to reach level one or have a plan in place to do so within a reasonable timeframe. Discouraging alcohol abuse Making more beer using less water Our beers are enjoyed responsibly by millions of consumers daily, but the minority Water scarcity represents a potentially significant risk to parts of our business. who abuse alcohol are a risk to themselves, their families and their communities. Water is vital not only in the brewing process but also in growing the crops used to make our beer and even in generating electricity to power our breweries. Our six core principles on alcohol guide the way we operate as a business and we have mandatory policies, by which all our employees must abide (see page 14). We aim to use water as efficiently as possible and have set ourselves the demanding target of reducing our water use per hectolitre of lager by 25% We provide accurate and balanced information to consumers to promote between 2008 and 2015 (see page 11). responsible drinking. We aim to discourage irresponsible drinking through campaigns which encourage responsible behaviour and help to combat We use the ‘5Rs’ – pRotect, Reduce, Reuse, Recycle and Redistribute – abuse. Read about how we’re combating alcohol-related harm in South to manage water upstream, downstream and within our operations. Africa on page 16. Find out more about the 5Rs and how we’re working with local Find out more about our alcohol strategy and policies at partners to manage shared water risk through our Water Futures www.sabmiller.com/responsibledrinking partnership at www.sabmiller.com/water Reducing our energy Packaging, reuse and recycling and carbon footprint The effects of climate change could have far-reaching consequences, The packaging we use preserves the quality of our beer and keeps it safe for particularly for water availability and agricultural production – both of which consumers’ enjoyment. It is also integral to how we present our products to are vital to the production of beer. consumers. We need to select packaging that is fit for purpose while also taking account of its environmental impact from manufacture to disposal. By 2020 we aim to halve the fossil fuel emissions from our on-site energy use per hectolitre of lager compared with 2008. Wherever we can, we aim We use a variety of packaging types and materials based on product need, to use alternative and renewable sources of energy which produce fewer consumer preference, the way that retailers sell our products and the existing emissions than fossil fuels (see page 11). recycling infrastructure. Where possible we use returnable bottles. This year 52% of our bottles and kegs were returnable. We also consider the carbon associated with our value chain, focusing particularly on packaging manufacture, transport and the refrigeration of Find out more about our packaging sustainability strategy at our products. This year, our global procurement business, Trinity, joined www.sabmiller.com/packaging the Carbon Disclosure Project Supply Chain programme. Find out more about our carbon strategy at www.sabmiller.com/energy Working towards Encouraging enterprise zero-waste operations development in our value chains The growing global population is placing strain on the world’s resources, The reach and scale of our business means that we play a key role in the making it increasingly important to use resources efficiently. economic development of the communities in which we operate. We work to reduce, reuse and recycle our waste, using resources efficiently Across our value chains, we seek to balance the commercial advantages and limiting the disposal of waste to landfill. associated with our scale with the benefits of supporting local communities. Where it makes sense, we source locally in order to reduce our import and The majority of the waste we produce is organic matter from the brewing distribution costs and maximise local economic benefit. Read about our process. The rest comprises damaged packaging (including broken bottles), work with smallholder farmers in Mozambique to launch the world’s first kieselguhr (a filtration medium), effluent sludge from wastewater treatment and commercial-scale cassava-based clear beer on page 10. other non-recyclable waste. We aim to work closely with both local and global suppliers and ask them Much of this waste has a value and can be reused to generate energy, to to adhere to our responsible sourcing principles. create new products (recycled glass bottles from broken glass, for example) or for agricultural purposes such as fertilisers or animal feed. We aim for our  ind out more about our Farming Better Futures programme F breweries to become zero-waste operations. and responsible sourcing principles at www.sabmiller.com/enterprisedevelopment Find out more about our waste strategy, including how we’re creating compost from bottle labels in the Czech Republic at www.sabmiller.com/waste SABMiller plc Sustainable Development Summary Report 2012 5 Visit our online SAM portal for more information on our SAM scores by priority and by country www.sabmiller.com/sam Stairway level assessment criteria Sustainable development group average scorecard 2012 5 Leading edge: Performance that represents genuine global 2010 2011 2012 leadership on an issue. 4 Best practice: Achieving what is currently considered to be global best practice in a particular field. 3 Developing leadership: Applying a comprehensive approach including innovative tools and widespread engagement. 2 Progressing: Ensuring consistent performance is achieved in a particular field. 1 Minimum standard: All operations must achieve level 1, or have a plan in place to do so, as it represents management of our key sustainable development risks. Alcohol Water Energy Packaging Waste Enterprise CSI HIV/Aids Human TransOverall and and development rights parency Score carbon packaging and value and ethics waste chain management Benefiting communities Contributing to the reduction of HIV/Aids Our prosperity is closely linked to that of the communities in which we HIV/Aids has the potential to affect our workforce, our customers, the supply operate. Investing in communities helps us to build strong relationships with of raw materials and the economic development of the communities in which those communities as well as with consumers and our employees. This year we operate. we invested US$34 million in corporate social investment (CSI) programmes, a slight increase on last year (2011: US$33 million). However, due to a significant Our programmes mainly focus on countries with a high prevalence of HIV/Aids increase in pre-tax profits2 our investment in CSI equates to 0.8% of pre-tax (more than 5%). We seek to provide education and awareness-training for all profits, a slight decrease since last year (2011: 0.9%). our employees and their spouses and dependants, and to offer access to voluntary counselling and testing (VCT) in countries with prevalence greater Across the world, our businesses select projects and initiatives that are than 1%. We are also extending our focus to broader health issues through relevant to their own operations, the local community and the market in our new wellness development programme (see page 17). which they operate. Find out more about our HIV/Aids strategy, including the work of Find out more about our CSI strategy, including our work our 1,847 peer educators (one to every 13 employees) in countries to understand the social return on investment (SROI) of our with a high prevalence of HIV/Aids at CSI projects at www.sabmiller.com/hivaids www.sabmiller.com/communities Respecting human rights Transparency and ethics We conduct our business with respect for national cultures and the laws, High standards of transparency and ethical behaviour underpin all that norms and traditions of our different markets. At the same time, there are we do. We therefore place high value on reporting and communicating in fundamental principles that we need to uphold in our own business and within an open and honest way with all our stakeholders. This year we published our supply chain. Read about our work to strengthen human rights in Zambia sustainable development reports in 15 markets. Download these reports at on page 10. www.sabmiller.com/sdreports As a global business, we recognise our responsibility to uphold labour We take care to listen to our stakeholders, understand their views and standards, both in our local operations and in our supply chain, and to seek to respond in a way that enables them to make informed judgements about prevent discrimination and breaches of human rights. SABMiller is a signatory the business. Read stakeholder commentary about this report on page 3. of the UN Global Compact and supports the Millennium Development Goals. Read about our response to Professor John Ruggie’s report on Business and We are committed both to transparent sustainable development reporting Human Rights on page 17. and to high ethical standards in general. Our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics and new Anti-Bribery Policy apply to all employees, and we expect Find out more about our human rights policy at our suppliers to abide by the principles laid out in both documents. www.sabmiller.com/humanrights  ind out more about our approach to transparency and ethics at F www.sabmiller.com/transparency 2 Includes earnings after interest, amortisation and exceptional items for all SABMiller subsidiaries included within the scope of this report, and a share (based on equity interest) of profit before tax for our US joint venture. 6 SABMiller plc Sustainable Development Summary Report 2012 Generating inclusive growth Beer is a local product – typically brewed, sold and consumed in the same community. By delivering high-quality products that consumers enjoy, our businesses create jobs, pay taxes, develop local skills and encourage enterprise Did you know? Did you know? We invested US$4.7 million Of the taxes we pay, 77% go to in programmes to support governments in emerging and entrepreneurs around the world developing countries and 23% are paid in developed countries Find out more about how we are providing Download independent reports assessing  microcredit financing for small retailers in our socio-economic impact in developing  Colombia on page 9 and at and emerging markets including Ghana, www.sabmiller.com/communities El Salvador and Zambia at www.sabmiller.com/sdreports US$34 million COMMUNITY BENEFIT in community investments CSI PROGRAMMES SUPPLIERS BREWING US$9,896 US$2,356 million million operating costs employee wages and benefits Did you know? Did you know? Did you know? We work with 32,499 We support 100,000 direct We use 4 hectolitres of water smallholder farmers farming jobs across Africa to produce 1 hectolitre of lager (a 5% reduction on last year) Watch our animation to find out more about Find out more about Impala, the world’s Watch our animation to find out more o  ur smallholder farming programmes and first cassava-based clear beer, brewed from  bout how we are making more beer a how we support thousands of livelihoods locally-sourced cassava grown by smallholder using less water at  around the world at farmers in Mozambique on page 10 and at www.sabmiller.com/water w ww.sabmiller.com/ www.sabmiller.com/ enterprisedevelopment enterprisedevelopment SABMiller plc Sustainable Development Summary Report 2012 7 Read more about our approach and performance at www.sabmiller.com/sd Did you know? Did you know? We have created almost We sell 1,400 bottles and cans 40,000 employee and of beer every second retailer shareholders in South Africa Find out more about our Broad-Based Download our Annual Report for an  lack Economic Empowerment ownership B overview of our markets and operations at programme, SAB Zenzele, on page 17 and at www.sabmiller.com/annualreport www.sabmiller.com/humanrights US$2,356 million in interest and dividends to providers of capital US$5,940 million SHAREHOLDERS AND INVESTORS taxes paid including TAXES excise tax3 RETAIL/CONSUMERS US$23,921 million economic value generated Value chain Did you know? Did you know? Economic value We generate 12.4 kgCO2e More than half of our to produce 1 hectolitre of lager  bottles and kegs are returned 3 E xcludes VAT, indirect taxes and taxes (a 10% reduction on last year) and reused borne by employees. Find out more about how we are reducing Find out more about our returnable  ur energy use and fossil fuel emissions, o bottles and how we are reducing including how we are using rice husks to post-consumer waste at power boilers in India, at  www.sabmiller.com/packaging www.sabmiller.com/energy 8 SABMiller plc Sustainable Development Summary Report 2012 Our economic contribution Stimulating economic development in the communities in which we operate The World Bank estimates that global poverty Our local sourcing programmes also support direct farming jobs. For example, in Africa research by Professor Ethan Kapstein of halved between 1990 and 20104. At SABMiller INSEAD, and other experts, indicates that SABMiller’s commitment we believe that the key to reducing poverty to increasing the local sourcing of raw materials to 50% over the next is the creation of jobs and economic growth. two years will raise the number of direct farming jobs supported by our operations from about 100,000 today to 150,000. We also know that ‘inclusive growth’ – building value chains that drive economic growth and stimulate social development – is the best way In Zambia, the drive for inclusive growth has involved working to generate long-term returns for our business and to create wealth with local brokers and commercial farmers to develop a local barley for the countries and communities in which we operate. industry. Three years ago we had to import all the barley needed in our Zambian operations. In 2012, Zambian Breweries plc worked with 21 local commercial farmers. As a result, over 4,000 rural workers There is no longer any doubt that business now have a regular income for themselves and their families. plays an integral role in delivering economic and social progress. Smallholder farmers Ban Ki-moon, UN Secretary-General, (number of farmers included in our smallholder programmes) UN Private Sector Forum, New York, September 2010 32,499 28,590 28,596 Inclusive growth across our value chain Beer is a local product – typically brewed, sold and consumed in the 21,288 same community. As a major brewer, we therefore play a key role in the economic development of our local communities. By delivering 10,539 high-quality products that consumers enjoy, our businesses create jobs, pay taxes, develop local skills, encourage enterprise and demonstrate that business growth and sustainable development 08 09 10 11 12 can be mutually reinforcing rather than in conflict. Encouraging entrepreneurship Farming Better Futures Beyond our breweries, the distribution and sale of our products In Africa, India and Latin America, our Farming Better Futures support thousands more livelihoods. programme is generating inclusive growth by encouraging the local sourcing of agricultural raw materials from smallholder and In Europe, a recent study by Ernst & Young found that a total of commercial farmers. Depending on local needs, the programme 202,000 jobs can be attributed to the production and sale of our beers also extends to water management initiatives and HIV/Aids testing – including over 98,000 in the hospitality sector alone. For each person and treatment for farmers. employed by SABMiller in Europe, 17 jobs are generated outside the brewing industry. We currently work with 32,499 smallholder farmers – about 4,000 more than last year due to the inclusion of our work with Zimbabwean This year, we have invested US$4.7 million in programmes to farmers for the first time. We intend to continue to grow our local sourcing support entrepreneurs around the world, awarding grants to over 100 programmes, for example, in India we aim to source all our barley from businesses and providing training to more than 1,000 entrepreneurs. local producers within the next five years (see page 11). For example, in Colombia, Peru and other parts of Latin America, we provide access to credit for shopkeepers to help strengthen their 4 A  n update to the World Bank’s estimates of consumption poverty in the developing world, businesses and increase their revenues, so improving their quality Shaohua Chen and Martin Ravallion, Development Research Group, World Bank (03-01-12). of life and that of their families (see case study opposite). Direct economic value generated i This table is constructed based on data Direct economic value generated i contained within the SABMiller 2012 Revenue plus interest and dividend receipts, royalty income and proceeds of sales of assets Annual Report and follows guidance recommended by the Global Reporting US$23,921 million Initiative (GRI EC1). ii Excludes share option charges, includes employer taxes and social security Economic value distributed contributions. Operating costs Employee wages Payments to Payments to Community iii E xcludes VAT, indirect taxes and taxes and benefitsii providers of capital tax authorities iii investments iv borne by employees. Cost of materials, Cost of employees’ All financial payments Tax paid, including Voluntary contributions iv Includes cash donations, value of gifts in services and facilities salaries and benefits made to the providers remittance taxes and and investment of kind and time donated, and management of the company’s excise taxes funds in the broader costs of CSI activity. v Value retained to fund future capital capital economy expenditure and acquisitions. US$9,896 million US$2,356 million US$2,356 million US$5,940 million US$34 million Economic value retained v US$3,339 million SABMiller plc Sustainable Development Summary Report 2012 9 R  ead more about our economic contribution at www.sabmiller.com/sd including further information on our entrepreneurship programmes and Corporate Social Investment. Micro-finance in Colombia The Bavaria Foundation’s Destapa Futuro programme is the largest private initiative promoting entrepreneurship in Colombia. At the Bavaria Foundation we’re always looking for new ways to promote entrepreneurship. This year, we’ve been tackling one of the main barriers to starting a small business – the lack of access to credit. We’ve worked with local banks to provide micro-finance for shopkeepers so they can strengthen their businesses, increase their revenues and In Europe, a recent study by Ernst & Young found that the production and improve their quality of life. In the last two years, more than 4,000 sale of our beers supports a total of 202,000 jobs – including more than shopkeepers have benefited from US$6 million made available in 98,000 in the hospitality sector alone. micro-credit financing. Over the past five years we’ve helped to create over 286 businesses A transparent approach to taxation through our Destapa Futuro programme. We’ve supported over We recognise there is a growing interest in the amount of tax paid 1,100 entrepreneurs by investing over US$8 million in seed by multinational companies. We continue to seek new and improved capital and US$2 million in training and mentoring. In turn, the ways to communicate our tax disclosures and approach, which will entrepreneurs we work with have created over 5,000 jobs. I’m be meaningful to our readers and stakeholders. most proud that the investment, practical advice and mentoring we provide help ensure that 93% of these businesses are As with all our other functions, tax within the group operates within still operating. a strong governance process. Our group tax policy guides the way we manage tax affairs across our businesses. We seek to be fully Catalina Garcia Gómez, Director transparent in our tax returns and related disclosures to revenue Fundación Bavaria authorities. The corporate tax charge for the year was US$1,126 million. This gives us an effective tax rate of 27.5%, down from 28.2% last year due to changes in tax legislation, the resolution of some uncertain tax positions, and some gains as a result of organisational changes, including acquisitions. Tax receipts are an important source of national revenue and essential for helping developing countries to break out of the aid trap. Total taxes borne and collected by the group during the year amounted to US$9,400 million (2011: US$8,400 million). This includes excise taxes, transactional taxes and taxes borne by employees as well as our share (based on equity interest) of taxes paid by our US joint venture. We consider this wider calculation to be an important and appropriate indication of the tax contribution of our operations, and the fiscal impact they have on the countries in which we do business. Tax receipts are an important source of national revenue and essential for helping developing countries to break out of the aid trap. Of the taxes we pay, 77% go to governments in emerging and developing countries and 23% are paid in developed economies. We support steps to improve tax management and administration in developing countries, so that local revenue authorities are well equipped to understand the tax positions of the companies from which they collect revenue. 10 SABMiller plc Sustainable Development Summary Report 2012 Our economic contribution continued Impala – from subsistence farming to cash crop Our business in Mozambique has launched the first-ever commercial-scale, cassava-based clear beer – Impala. Cassava is a difficult crop to use on a commercial scale, because the root deteriorates quickly once it’s been harvested. That said, it’s also one of the most widely-grown crops in Africa. We therefore saw an opportunity to create a new market for subsistence farmers and help them to earn an income, often for the first time. We joined forces with DADTCO (Dutch Agricultural Development and Trading Company) and came up with an innovative solution – a mobile processing unit that we can send to cassava-growing regions to process the crop on the farm, ready for the brewery. There is no doubt that this project will have a significant impact on their lives and the local economy. An evidence-based approach Peter Bolt, Managing Director DADTCO to tackling poverty Through Impala we’ll create additional income for over Last year, we published a poverty footprint 1,500 smallholder farmers, helping them to raise their families’ standard of living. In recognition of its contribution to agricultural report with Oxfam America and The Coca-Cola and economic development in Mozambique, the government has Company to understand the impact that our introduced a new excise category for beer made from cassava. soft drinks value chain has on reducing poverty. And because we’re using a local crop, it costs less to produce than other clear beers and we can sell Impala at a lower price – The report looked at a range of poverty indicators from sustainable 70% of the price of mainstream lager. This makes it affordable for livelihoods, health and wellbeing to diversity, empowerment, consumers who might otherwise be drinking informal or illicit alcohol. security and stability. I was pleased that the report found that labour conditions, environmental protection and human rights Grant Liversage, Managing Director were generally well respected at our bottling plants. But the report Cervejas de Moçambique SARL also made recommendations about things we could do better. These included looking more closely into any cases of failed factory grievances or dispute resolution systems; developing business training and support for women across the soft drink value chain (making efforts, in particular, to recruit women for non-traditional and senior management jobs); and safeguarding the health and safety of workers in our supply chain. This year we’ve been busy making the recommendations a reality. For example, we’ve worked with our independent truck drivers to seek to limit the number of hours they work so they don’t get too tired or lose concentration. We’ve even taken a decision to suspend all night deliveries. We’re also working to improve our local sourcing. There are already many small businesses working across our value chain – suppliers, truck drivers, retailers and others. We want to help these SMEs to share their experiences and learn from each other, so we’re creating a process to help capture and share best practice. We’re looking for new local businesses that can supply materials we currently import, and we’ve signed a business-linkages agreement with the Zambia Development Agency. Finally, we’re always looking to innovate. This year we launched a pilot project in partnership with ColaLife to use our soft drink distribution chains to supply anti-diarrhoea kits to under-served rural areas. Anele Malumo, Managing Director Zambian Breweries plc SABMiller plc Sustainable Development Summary Report 2012 11 The water-food-energy nexus Working in partnership to tackle the water and resource challenges shared by our businesses and the communities in which we work By 2050 demand for resources is set to In the last 12 months, our energy use has remained constant at 138 MJ per hectolitre of lager. Due in part to a cleaner fuel mix, increase significantly as the global population the carbon emissions per hectolitre of lager produced fell to grows to nine billion and becomes more 12.4 kgCO2e/hl, 10% less than the previous year. Our emissions prosperous, so requiring more food, water during the period totalled 2.1 million tonnes of CO2e. and energy to meet its needs. Global economic growth is being driven largely by emerging markets. Over the medium term, the World Bank estimates economic growth of 6% in developing countries compared to 2.7% in higher-income countries5. But this growth could be jeopardised by the resource challenge being felt across the world. The expanding population will need 70% more food, and growing and processing this food will increase water stress. The Water Resources Group, of which SABMiller is a member, estimates that there could be a 40% shortfall between water demand and available freshwater supply by 20306. At the same time, the systems that sustain us all will be affected by climate change. Water, food and energy are interconnected. Agriculture accounts for about 70% of global freshwater use and can pollute freshwater supplies if mismanaged. Water is also used to generate electricity: in This year, Plzeňský Prazdroj identified a unique way of using waste labels, which are washed off returnable bottles, as compost. This will save 400 the USA, power generation accounts for about 50% of all freshwater tonnes per year of waste going to landfill. withdrawals7 and drought in countries that use hydropower – Ethiopia and Ghana, for example – can lead to black-outs. Energy, in turn, is needed to fertilise and transport crops, which can themselves be Beyond our breweries used as biofuel to create energy. Large amounts of energy are also On its own, resource-efficiency within our operations is not enough required to pump water to drier regions and, as water scarcity increases, to safeguard the resources we need for our businesses. Accordingly, so will the energy needed for technologies such as desalination. we also work across our supply chains and with the communities in which we operate to explore sustainable solutions that work locally. Given these trade-offs and interactions, successfully addressing the triple challenge of water stress, food security and energy A case in point is our work with smallholder and commercial farmers supplies means taking a holistic view and balancing the many to help them improve their yields and quality, use less water and competing demands. We call this interconnected issue the manage issues such as soil quality. water-food-energy nexus. Through our Saanjhi Unnati (Progress through Partnership) Making our own operations more resource-efficient programme in India, we work with over 6,000 smallholder farmers Resource-efficiency is the first step towards effectively managing the to help optimise their use of land, increase their yields and improve water-food-energy nexus. Across our operations, we aim to become their standard of living. Local barley has not always been suitable for 25% more water-efficient by 2015 and 50% more carbon-efficient brewing, but we’re helping farmers to raise the quality of their crop by 2020, over a 2008 base. Many of our businesses have made and aim to source all our barley locally within five years. This will significant improvements. In Uganda, for example, Nile Breweries Ltd improve farmers’ incomes and give SABMiller India Ltd a reliable, has reduced its water consumption from eight hectolitres of water long-term source of quality malting barley. per hectolitre of lager produced in 2006 to 4.7 hectolitres today. By reducing the water we use in brewing and packaging our beer, Our average water consumption per we also cut the energy required for heating and cooling in the hectolitre of lager produced fell to 4.0 hl/hl, process. Similarly, by using biogas from wastewater or reclaiming 5% less than the previous year. local agricultural waste such as spent grains to generate renewable energy, we reduce our reliance on fossil fuels. In India, for example, In the USA, MillerCoors is working with The Nature Conservancy to the burning of rice husks now provides cheaper fuel for our business safeguard the watershed and improve habitats in the barley-growing than conventional energy sources such as coal. Silver Creek Valley in Idaho. Improvements made on a model barley farm, designed to showcase best conservation practices, have This year SABMiller produced more beer using less water, using increased yields and saved almost 4.7 million hectolitres of water, 706 million hectolitres of water 8 in lager production processes, a about 9% of the farm’s annual water use. It’s also expected to reduce reduction on last year. Our average water consumption per hectolitre energy use by an estimated 10-20%. of lager produced fell to 4.0 hl/hl, 5% less than the previous year. Since 2008 when we first set our target of reducing consumption per hectolitre of lager by 25% by 2015, our water efficiency has improved by 13%. 5 World Bank, Global Economic Prospect, 2010: Fiscal Headwinds and Recovery, 2010. 6 McKinsey and Company, Charting our Water Future, 2009. 7 International Water Management Institute. 8 Includes water used in the production of lager on sites covered within the scope of this report. 12 SABMiller plc Sustainable Development Summary Report 2012 The water-food-energy nexus continued Improving brewery efficiency Water to lager ratio Total energy consumption Total CO2e emissions from CO2e emissions from fossil (hl water/hl lager) (TJ) fossil fuel energy used on site fuel energy used on site (million tonnes) (kgCO2e/hl lager) 4.6 4.5 26 2.6 2.5 14.9 14.3 14.2 4.3 4.2 24 23 24 24 2.4 2.4 13.8 4.0 2.2 12.4 08 09 10 11 12 08 09 10 11 12 08 09 10 11 12 08 09 10 11 12 We also work with suppliers to seek to reduce the carbon emissions Shaping the debate and sharing best practice and waste associated with our packaging. Where possible, we use Many of the resource challenges we face can only be addressed by returnable bottles: this year 52% of our bottles and kegs were working through a broad coalition of local partners to tackle shared risk. returnable, consistent with last year. We seek opportunities to eliminate or reduce our packaging and to increase its recycled content. In the SABMiller has been active in the water debate for a number of last year, for example, Birra Peroni S.r.l. in Italy has reduced the weight years. We are a founding signatory of the UN CEO Water Mandate of its Peroni Gran Riserva 330 ml bottle by 40% (from 310g to 185g), which helps companies to develop, implement and disclose water saving 750 tonnes of glass and about 600 tonnes of CO2e a year. sustainability policies and practices. In 2011 we participated in the second CDP Water Disclosure Project which provides insight into companies’ water risk. We have also taken the lead role in the public-private Strategic Water Partnership Network in South Africa – part of the global Water Resources Group. Drawing on our global scale, our understanding of risk and existing relationships with governments, NGOs and other stakeholders, we’re building coalitions to turn our understanding of water risks into practical plans. Many of the resource challenges we face can only be addressed by working through a broad coalition of local partners to tackle shared risk. Formed in 2009, our Water Futures partnership with WWF and the German development agency, GIZ, is one example of a public-private partnership devoted to managing shared water risk and to demonstrating the link between water, food and energy security (see case study opposite). During the year we expanded the partnership to include our businesses in four new markets: Colombia, In the USA, MillerCoors is working with The Nature Conservancy to Honduras, India and the USA. We aim to build on the partnership’s safeguard the watershed and improve habitats in the barley-growing success by sharing our knowledge and experience and applying the Silver Creek Valley in Idaho. lessons learned to other aspects of the nexus. For example, we’re part of the World Economic Forum’s New Vision for Agriculture which aims to ensure food security for all in an environmentally sustainable way while generating economic growth and opportunity. Read more about our progress including detailed performance data for our water, energy, packaging and waste priorities at www.sabmiller.com/sd Reports available online: • Water Futures Report • Water Security: The Water-Energy-Food-Climate Nexus SABMiller plc Sustainable Development Summary Report 2012 13 Driving efficiency in our Polish breweries By 2020 SABMiller aims to halve the fossil fuel emissions from our on-site energy use per hectolitre of lager produced compared with 2008. At Kompania Piwowarska, we have saved about 35,000 tonnes of CO2e emissions over the last five years by improving the energy efficiency of our breweries. Between 2003 and 2012, for example, our Poznan brewery has reduced the amount of heat energy it uses to produce a hectolitre of lager by 57%, down from 135.39 MJ/hl to 58.34 MJ/hl. Using renewable energy such as biogas from our wastewater treatment plants also helps us reduce our CO2e emissions. During 2012 over 15% of the total gas used to power the boiler at our Tychy brewery was biogas from the brewery’s wastewater treatment plant. Maciej Henicz, Environmental Protection and Occupational Health and Safety Specialist, Kompania Piwowarska S.A. Water Futures in Peru Through the Water Futures partnership we work with NGOs such as WWF and The Nature Conservancy to protect the watersheds on which our businesses depend. This year through our local Water Futures partnership in Peru, we started a series of studies to examine the water resources available in the basins that supply each of Backus’ breweries. The first covered the Rímac river basin in Lima and identified a number of projects to improve water security for the region. We’re now reviewing a number of aquifer sustainability projects including: • improving the infrastructure of canals and river beds; • reusing treated water to irrigate public green areas such as parks; and • establishing a Rímac River Water Observatory – an expert technical panel to monitor and assess the aquifer. I’m also proud that Backus is a founding partner in the Aquafondo, established by The Nature Conservancy to fund conservation and water protection projects in Lima. The fund (which has an initial start-up capital of US$900,000) will invest in conservation and water protection measures and education and communication projects. We’re working to encourage more businesses and institutions to join the alliance, so we can work together to safeguard shared water supplies for the future. Lorena Gaviño, Sustainable Development Senior Analyst, Unión de Cervecerías Peruanas Backus y Johnston S.A.A. 14 SABMiller plc Sustainable Development Summary Report 2012 Beer in society Combating alcohol abuse and ensuring strong commercial governance Each day our beers are enjoyed by millions of consumers. While the vast majority drink responsibly, the minority who do not are a risk to themselves, their families and the communities in which they live. Alcohol abuse, and associated societal issues such as violence, drunk-driving and underage drinking, are a cause of concern around the world. Over the next 10 years, the World Health Organisation predicts a 17% increase in non-communicable diseases9 such as diabetes, cancer and heart disease, some of which have been associated with alcohol abuse. As a brewer, we care about the effects of irresponsible consumption and are determined to help tackle them. An independent compliance report found that 98% of our advertisements across Europe contained responsible drinking messages. The causes of alcohol-related harm are broad and complex and there is no simple solution. As a brewer, we care about the effects of irresponsible consumption and are determined to help tackle Through our TalkingAlcohol.com website, now available in eight the causes. We have clear principles that guide the way we operate languages, we tailor our messages to local market needs and welcome as a business (see six principles on alcohol below). on average around 20,000 visitors each month. This year in Romania, the website ran a programme to help reduce drunk-driving. Over Our approach is to engage with stakeholders and work collectively 10,000 website visitors sent a ‘thank you’ card to designated drivers to address irresponsible consumption. We believe it’s essential to and about 60,000 used the mobile tool to assess the time they need gain insights into alcohol-related harm at a local level and we work to allow before they have a zero alcohol blood level after drinking. with governments and their partners to deliver targeted interventions The website won the Gold Trophy for corporate communication at the that respond to the challenges. We aim to assess the impact our Romanian Public Relation Awards. programmes are having on the problem and use this information to shape our strategy. Combating alcohol abuse Second, we aim to discourage irresponsible drinking through Our approach includes the following areas of focus: campaigns which encourage responsible behaviour and help to combat abuse (see case studies on page 16). Encouraging responsible drinking First, it’s vital that information provided to consumers about alcohol For example, in Swaziland, to help tackle an increase in the incidence consumption is accurate and balanced. In Europe, for example, we’ve of drunk-driving, particularly on the road between the busy towns of implemented comprehensive commitments to the EU Alcohol and Mbabane and Manzini, Swaziland Beverages Ltd has partnered with Health Forum to provide information to consumers through packaging Mgewu Investments, a local transport service provider, to provide free labels, marketing materials, online tools and mobile apps. shuttle services ferrying consumers home from selected outlets after they have consumed alcoholic beverages. Six principles on alcohol Our six principles on alcohol help guide the decisions we make every day: 1 Our beer adds to the enjoyment of life for the overwhelming majority of our consumers 2 We care about the harmful effects of irresponsible alcohol consumption 3 We engage stakeholders and work collectively with them to address irresponsible consumption 4 Alcohol consumption is for adults and is a matter of individual judgement and accountability 5 Information provided to consumers about alcohol consumption should be accurate and balanced 6 We expect our employees to aspire to high levels of conduct in relation to alcohol consumption 9 WHO alcohol fact sheet 2011 SABMiller plc Sustainable Development Summary Report 2012 15 Strong commercial governance Alcohol advertising is one of the most regulated forms of advertising in the world. In addition to local laws, all our operations around the world must comply with our own sales and marketing standards. These are contained in our Policy on Commercial Communication, updated this year, which governs where and how we market our brands and covers both traditional and digital communications. We regularly assess compliance with our policies: in one recent example, an independent compliance report found that 98% of our advertisements across Europe contained the responsible drinking messages set out in our responsible messaging guidelines. Our alcohol responsibility policies, underpinned by strong governance processes, seek to ensure that we market and sell our products responsibly. This year we also issued our Product Portfolio Policy, which sets out group-wide requirements for new and acquired products to ensure that all our brands support our alcohol principles. Under this global In Panama, we developed a comprehensive road safety campaign in association with the national police, Ministry of Health and the Pan policy, for example, we will not seek to acquire or develop any alcohol American Health Organization (PAHO), covering issues including drunkproducts containing stimulants such as caffeine. driving. In the first year of the campaign, there was a 10% reduction in traffic accidents nationwide. Our strong governance processes seek to ensure that we market and sell our products responsibly. Each of our businesses is required to have an internal compliance committee that oversees adherence Contributing to the wider debate to all the necessary standards, training and reporting processes. We seek to understand local market issues in order to contribute in These committees also engage with beer industry and with national a meaningful way to the wider debate on alcohol abuse. In Peru, for self-regulation systems, some of which include representation example, Backus has been working with the government and other from civil society. stakeholders to tackle the issue of illicit alcohol which represents up to 30% of the market, posing significant health risks to consumers As a member of the International Center for Alcohol Policies and and reducing government revenue. Backus commissioned research the World Federation of Advertisers, we work with communities, into the causes of alcohol abuse and found it was part of a broad organisations and governments to establish and improve selfpicture of social deprivation. The study also showed how commercially regulatory systems for responsible marketing. Through the Selfproduced products for low-income consumers can present a positive Regulation Initiative of Global Actions on Harmful Drinking, we work alternative to drinking unsafe, illicit alcohol. In response, Backus with regulators, advertising industries and the media with the objective worked with medical professionals and policy-makers to run a that alcohol marketing codes are high-quality and fully implemented. communications campaign and make recommendations about regulating the trade more effectively. This led to changes in the We also provide regular education on alcohol responsibility for our law making it illegal to produce or sell unlicensed alcohol. employees, all of whom are required to adhere to our Alcohol Code of Conduct. All around the world more than 50,000 employees participated in training about alcohol responsibility and our policies. This year we introduced an online refresher course, part of which asks participants to make a personal pledge on alcohol responsibility. In Hungary we received 370 pledges from 400 e-learning participants in just one month, including pledges about being a role model at work and at home, and pledges to stop people from driving home if they’ve been drinking.  ead more about our alcohol responsibility R programmes at www.sabmiller.com/responsibledrinking Reports available online: • SABMiller Product Portfolio Policy In Uganda, Nile Breweries trained retailers to help them understand their role in preventing underage drinking. Over 1,200 retail outlets have • Presence of Responsible Drinking Messages received training from a qualified behavioural change trainer to ensure in Packaging and Advertising maximum impact. 16 SABMiller plc Sustainable Development Summary Report 2012 Beer in society continued Addressing alcohol-related harm in South Africa At South African Breweries (SAB) we’re proud of the products we produce, but we take a clear stand when it comes to the consequences of alcohol abuse. We’re always looking for new ways to tackle the alcohol-related issues that most affect society – underage drinking being one example. This year we piloted two new programmes designed to reach deeper into our communities. Through our Responsible Trader Programme, we’ve trained 16,500 traders in alcohol abuse and the harm it can cause in their communities. Through the programme we aim to help liquor traders to see themselves as champions in the fight against alcohol abuse. Assessments of more than 7,000 traders after they’d attended training sessions found 81% scoring more than 80%. Watch an animation we use in the training sessions at www.sabmiller.com/responsibletrader Underage drinking is one of the most serious forms of alcohol abuse, and is totally unacceptable. Through our You decide programme, we’re working with the Department of Trade and Industry, the National Youth Development Agency and provincial Departments of Education to teach teens about the impact their choices can have on their future. Our partners are using road shows, competitions, lesson plans and Facebook to tell teenagers, ‘you decide’. They’re also working with parents and local communities to find ways to reinforce the message and discourage underage drinking. We’ve set ourselves an ambitious target: through the pilot, launched in February 2012, the programme aims to reach Encouraging great plays in college over 400,000 students across 360 schools. Vincent Maphai, Executive Director Corporate Affairs and At MillerCoors, we’ve launched our Great Plays Transformation, SAB programme in partnership with the ABMRF/ The Foundation for Alcohol Research. The programme provides funding for universities to address the drinking behaviours and the harmful consequences of alcohol among their students. We chose the theme Great Plays because college students have the ability and opportunity each day to make decisions or ‘great plays’ that result in positive outcomes and help them thrive and be successful in life. Choosing not to abuse alcohol is one of the greatest plays a student can make. Each year, all universities in the USA who agree to participate in MillerCoors’ college sports marketing alliances (57 in total) are eligible for a US$10,000 grant which can be used for programmes aimed at reducing the harm caused by dangerous levels of consumption (drunk-driving, for example), or which raise awareness of harmful drinking or change students’ drinking behaviours. So far, I’ve been really pleased with the response as 23 universities have already signed-up. Bill Young, Corporate Alcohol Responsibility Manager, MillerCoors SABMiller plc Sustainable Development Summary Report 2012 17 An employer of choice Succeeding by valuing and empowering our employees SABMiller employs some 70,000 people Respecting human rights We respect and promote the values of the international community, from diverse cultures and backgrounds in particular the Universal Declaration on Human Rights. As a across six continents. global business, we recognise our responsibility to uphold labour standards, both in our local operations and in our supply chain, We aim to attract, develop and retain high-calibre people with the and to prevent discrimination and breaches of human rights. skills, attributes and drive to help SABMiller achieve its strategic To this end, we’re committed to a number of conventions including objectives, both now and in the future. We seek to treat all our the UN Global Compact. employees and contractors fairly and with respect and to provide a safe working environment. We recognise our responsibility to uphold Our employees are compensated with a fair wage and comprehensive labour standards, both in our local operations benefits, and have access to development opportunities both within and in our supply chain, and to prevent their role and towards career progression. discrimination and breaches of human rights. Safety, health and wellbeing This year we engaged expert advisers to review our human rights This year we joined the World Economic Forum’s workplace wellness policies, procedures and performance measurement in the light alliance, a consortium of companies committed to advancing wellness of Professor John Ruggie’s final report to the UN on Business and in the workplace. Human Rights. The feedback was that SABMiller in general is ahead of many businesses in this respect, particularly in our independent All our businesses in areas of high HIV/Aids prevalence enlist and assessments of human rights issues across the value chain – an train peer educators to raise awareness of HIV/Aids among their example being the Oxfam poverty footprint report (see page 10). colleagues, the aim being to lessen the stigma of HIV/Aids and However, there is more we can do, such as improving our verification encourage voluntary counselling and testing. Independent of supplier performance. To this end, our global procurement research in South Africa found that SAB receives a fourfold return company, Trinity, has joined SEDEX, a not-for-profit organisation on its investment in HIV/Aids testing and treatment in terms of promoting ethical and responsible business practices in global reduced healthcare and insurance costs, reduced absence and supply chains. higher productivity. We respect our employees’ right to union representation and 36.4% The health and wellbeing of our employees and their families are a of our workforce belongs to a union. Many of our businesses have key concern and we adapt our wellness programmes to meet their developed productive partnerships with trade unions on collective changing needs. This year we piloted a new Wellness Development bargaining and other issues. Programme in Botswana, South Africa, Swaziland and Tanzania which covers sexually transmitted infections, hepatitis B and C, malaria and tuberculosis for peer educators. All our businesses in areas of high HIV/Aids prevalence enlist peer educators to raise awareness of HIV/Aids among their colleagues, lessen the stigma of HIV/Aids and encourage voluntary counselling and testing. We aim to provide a safe working environment in our breweries, bottling plants and offices and have robust systems, including regular audits, for identifying and minimising the risk of accidents and monitoring and addressing incidents when they occur. This year, better reporting on health and safety has resulted in noticeable improvements in health and safety performance in several markets including Hungary, Italy and Uganda. That said, during the year In countries where HIV/Aids is prevalent, we offer employees and their we recorded 1,713 industrial injuries, 18% more than in 2011, largely dependants access to voluntary testing and counselling, as well as managed healthcare programmes including free anti-retroviral drugs. This year in due to an increase in injuries reported in Latin America in line with countries of high prevalence we had 1,847 peer educators, which equates new reporting protocols. Across our business, we recorded 17,735 to one peer educator for every 13 employees. days lost through injury – a 34% increase on 2011 – also due to improved reporting. In South Africa, we actively support Broad-Based Black Economic It is with regret that we report 11 employee and contractor fatalities Empowerment (BBBEE) as a way of addressing the systemic this year. Two of these related to accidents while undertaking inequalities of the past and we strive to achieve the highest levels of maintenance or repair activities, five related to accidents involving compliance. This year we continued our improving trend with a rating vehicles and four related to robberies or assaults on our staff while of 72.89 out of a possible 100 in our BBBEE audit (2011: 70.81). on sales or trade visits. In each case we have undertaken an Through the BBBEE ownership programme, SAB Zenzele, we have investigation and, where applicable, implemented measures to created almost 40,000 shareholders among our staff and our retailers. minimise the likelihood of such an incident recurring. We have also Retailers who acquired the minimum allocation of shares for R100 at established a group health and safety working group, which will the start of the programme in 2010 have, to date, received R875 in report to the group CARAC. dividends, almost nine times their initial investment. 18 SABMiller plc Sustainable Development Summary Report 2012 An employer of choice continued Our performance Female executives and managers Training days per employee Trade union membership Employees trained in ethics (as percentage of total executive (number of days) (percentage of employees who within the last three years and manager workforce) are members of a trade union) (thousand employees) 27% 28% 4.4 4.2 42% 42.4 26% 26% 25% 4.0 38% 39% 38% 3.9 3.8 36% 36.3 33.0 29.5 23.5 08 09 10 11 12 08 09 10 11 12 08 09 10 11 12 08 09 10 11 12 Recognising and rewarding performance We recognise and reward strong performance. Every year, each SABMiller employee sets stretching individual objectives in conjunction with their manager. These goals are linked to local company objectives to ensure that everyone is contributing to, and has clear accountability for, the delivery of business strategy. Bonus payments and salary increases are linked to performance against individual goals and are calculated against a combination of individual achievement and overall company performance. Linking individual learning to business priorities We’re committed to offering appropriate career development opportunities to each of our employees and encourage employees to take ownership of, and manage, their own development. In the year ended 31 March 2012 we provided four training days for every This year we provided, on average, four training days per employee. employee, a slight increase on the previous year. We recognise and reward strong performance. Equality and diversity We’re committed to developing a talented and diverse workforce and Every employee sets stretching goals with giving our people every opportunity to achieve their full potential. We their manager to ensure we are all contributing have clear policies and processes relating to diversity and encourage to delivering our business strategy. a culture that respects and tolerates individual differences. We believe that 70% of learning occurs through experience and With brewing traditionally perceived as a male-dominated industry, therefore place great value on on-the-job training. Given that adults we have a number of initiatives aimed at ensuring better representation gain about 20% of their learning through relationships, we provide for women. A total of 19% of our employees are female (2011: 19.5%). mentoring programmes to help employees develop new skills and As at 31 March 2012, 27.8% of our executives and managers were learn from others’ personal experiences. The remaining 10% of women. Five of the last seven independent non-executive directors learning and growth is through formal training. Through our appointed to the SABMiller plc board were women and the proportion global learning strategy, we offer over 400 courses from specific of women on the board is currently 33%. functional programmes to management development and leadership programmes. These range from e-learning courses Last year we reported that SAB had invested over R25 million to programmes facilitated by leading educational institutions. (US$3.5 million) on skills development for women in South Africa. Almost a quarter of its workforce is now female with women filling 38.5% of management roles and 32.5% of executive roles in the company. SABMiller plc Sustainable Development Summary Report 2012 19 Promoting diversity at MillerCoors At MillerCoors we believe that a more diverse workforce drives better business performance. We want to increase the number of women in senior roles. Currently women represent 20% of all vice-president and executive-level positions at MillerCoors. We are taking three steps in an effort to increase women advancement in the company: First, we’re seeking to hire more women. We encourage our recruiters to look for talented female candidates and this year 62% of all candidate lists for new hires included at least one woman. During the year 83% of people hired through our Sales Management Development Program were women, creating a strong pipeline of female talent for senior roles in the future. Secondly, we aim to provide a supportive environment for personal growth. Each of our functions has guidelines and principles for promoting greater flexibility, introducing new ideas such as Building a talent pipeline telecommuting. This year the average number of training hours completed by women increased by almost 50%. To achieve our growth strategies we need our leaders to have the skills, behaviours and Thirdly, women are encouraged to share their own experiences with others – through group mentoring, for example. The results passion to drive value through their teams. speak for themselves. Of the 115 women who have participated We designed our European Management Development in group mentoring since 2010, 36 have been promoted and 30 Programme (EMDP) to develop a talent pipeline by preparing have made lateral moves to develop broader or deeper skills. our most talented current and future managers for their next challenges. Michelle Nettles, Senior Director Diversity and Talent Management, MillerCoors In partnership with Ashridge Business School we design the programme around a different theme each year. This year the theme was ‘Impact’, whether personal, team or organisational. As part of the learning experience, participants are given real business problems to address, enabling them to make their own impact through on-the-job learning. The EMDP stretched me and helped me understand who I am. Heightened self‑awareness is essential for making the transition from manager to leader. Isabelle Guegler, EMDP participant The programme is delivering results. We have seen an increase in the confidence, performance and impact of those involved and 25% of the participants in 2010 were promoted within one year, taking new knowledge and innovative thinking into the business in their new roles. Samantha Rockey, Learning and Development Manager, SABMiller Europe 20 SABMiller plc Sustainable Development Summary Report 2012 Integrating sustainable development into business planning Our 10 priorities provide a robust, rigorous and transparent framework for managing sustainable development across our business A clear and focused strategy The Sustainability Assessment Matrix (SAM) Sustainable development is integral to the way we do business and Twice a year, each business is required to provide both qualitative is reflected in our strategic priority to constantly raise the profitability and quantitative data relating to each of our 10 priorities. This is of local operations, sustainably. done through our bespoke management system, the Sustainability Assessment Matrix (SAM). Performance is assessed against clearly Our 10 sustainable development priorities provide a strong framework, defined criteria set out in the SAM ‘stairways’ and is reviewed by both offering clarity to our local operations on how to address material the regional and group CARACs. sustainable development issues. At the same time, our approach is flexible enough to allow our local operations to invest their resources The 10 stairways – one for each priority – plot a course through in the issues most relevant to them in their own markets. In our five levels of performance, from a minimum standard (level one) to work on water, for example, differences in climate, infrastructure and leading edge (level five). We require all our businesses, as a minimum, other factors can mean that local operations face very different issues to reach level one or have a plan in place to do so. and risks. In 2012 the average score achieved by SABMiller across all priorities Robust governance was 3.2, an increase over the 2011 score of 2.9. Group average The group corporate accountability and risk assurance committee scores increased across all 10 priorities, with a particularly strong (CARAC), a sub-committee of the SABMiller plc board, is responsible improvement on discouraging irresponsible drinking, where the score for overseeing progress against our 10 sustainable development increased by almost 20%, from 2.9 to 3.5. priorities. The CARAC is chaired by Dr Dambisa Moyo, a nonexecutive director of SABMiller plc. Visit our online SAM portal for more detailed information on our scores by priority and by country (www.sabmiller.com/sam). You can also Each region has its own CARAC which oversees local activity and find data on country progress against a range of key performance agrees a relevant local strategy. Regional CARACs are led by the indicators including water to lager ratio and total CO2e emissions, as regional managing director. The group CARAC is regularly updated well as information on packaging types used in each of our local markets. on each region’s progress and performance. Improving data quality This year we’ve continued our programme of training and in-country SAM reviews, holding reviews in Botswana, Colombia, Panama, Peru, Slovakia, South Africa and Zambia. Businesses in each market were strongly committed to sustainable development and the quality of reporting was generally good. During each review we share best practice from across the group and make recommendations on how to improve SAM scores. We also support new businesses when they start reporting through SAM. As part of the integration of the newly acquired CUB in Australia, we provided training and support to enable the business to report through SAM next year. We have also held a series of workshops to support our global procurement business, Trinity, which submitted data to the SAM system for the first time this year. To further strengthen the SAM process this year, we trialled new SAM guidance documents during four of our country reviews. These have been developed with, and trialled by, our Internal Audit teams to Go online for more detailed performance data, including SAM level assessment scores by country and priority (www.sabmiller.com/sam). ensure that the SAM stairways are understood and assessed consistently across the group. SAM – measuring SD performance Leading edge: Performance that represents genuine global leadership on an issue. 5 Best practice: Achieving what is currently considered to be global best practice in a particular field. 4 Developing leadership: Applying a comprehensive approach including innovative tools and 3 widespread engagement. Progressing: Ensuring consistent performance is achieved in a particular field. 2 Minimum standard: All operations must achieve level 1 as it represents management of the key sustainable development risks 1 we are facing today. The executive committee has mandated that where operations do not meet level 1 currently, they must implement a plan to reach this level within a reasonable timeframe. SABMiller plc Sustainable Development Summary Report 2012 21 Assurance and commentary 2012 summary report SABMiller has commissioned Corporate Citizenship to provide an expert view on the quality of reporting and the progress made during the year Assurance Future reporting Corporate Citizenship has conducted a full AA1000AS assurance Looking forward, from our assurance work we have identified of the 2012 sustainable development reporting, comprising this two questions that we believe readers of future reports will look Sustainable Development Summary Report and specific additional to see addressed. online material. Our complete assurance statement is available at www.sabmiller.com/sdreporting, with our conclusions and commentary. In discussions about inclusive growth, stakeholders will expect more specific data from international companies such as SABMiller about SABMiller’s approach who is benefiting from this growth – how the value is shared between This year’s summary report moves the focus from SABMiller’s governments and investors, for example, and between suppliers, 10 sustainable development priorities onto four key issues of greatest employees and managers. They will increasingly debate what is a interest to many stakeholders – economic impacts, natural resource fair allocation. constraints, alcohol in society and employees. Full details on all the priorities, along with in-depth reports on topics such as farming and Second, will SABMiller’s established 10 Priorities framework, in use water, remain available online. since 2006, need to change, given the new focus areas? It remains a robust approach, allowing for year-on-year comparisons and effective This approach reflects a reporting challenge we noted last year – reporting, with individual companies able to benchmark and target to demonstrate “how a company can become truly sustainable in improvements in performance. a resource-constrained world… systematically addressing the full life-cycle impacts of the business and its activities, economic and However new measures, targets and performance reporting may social as well as environmental.” be needed to demonstrate both how the resource ‘nexus’ is working out in practice and how the fruits of inclusive growth are shared – Here we comment on progress during the year and on implications with possible changes to the SAM system. for future reporting. If so, these developments will then help to show progress on the Progress on key issues challenge we posed last year “to be truly sustainable in a resourceThe new descriptor of ‘inclusive growth’ encapsulates an important constrained world”. feature about SABMiller’s impacts – that beer is typically a local product, brewed and consumed in the same community, with Corporate Citizenship water and other resources drawn from the locality too. Economic London, 11 June 2012 growth is inclusive as it is both dependent on and brings benefits www.corporate-citizenship.com to local communities. In the first focus area, to understand its economic impact better, Operating businesses covered in this report the company has conducted detailed studies of breweries in The following operations produce their own sustainable sub-Saharan Africa, Latin America and Europe, working with outside development reports experts. A study with Oxfam America and The Coca-Cola Company Regular sustainable development report also looked at how the soft drinks business can help reduce poverty. Information provided online The following operations and their subsidiaries under the management This report sets out a model of how inclusive growth works locally control of SABMiller group companies are included in this report. and describes action being taken. For example, the commitment to Our US joint venture, MillerCoors LLC, is also included. increase to 50% the local sourcing of raw materials in Africa by 2014 We aim to include new acquisitions or market entries within two years. is ambitious. Botswana Kgalagadi Breweries (Pty) Ltd; Botswana Breweries (Pty) Ltd Canary Islands Compañía Cervecera de Canarias, S.A. The second focus area – natural resource constraints – has long Colombia Bavaria S.A. been a priority for SABMiller. This year good operational progress has Czech Republic Plzeňský Prazdroj, a.s. resulted in improved water and fossil fuel emissions ratios – with 5% Ecuador Cervecería Nacional (CN) S.A. and 10% reductions respectively. Significantly, SABMiller’s approach El Salvador Industrias La Constancia, S.A. de C.V. is broadening too, recognising that solutions to resource limitations, Ghana Accra Brewery Ltd Honduras Cervecería Hondureña, S.A. de C.V. especially on water, food and energy are closely interconnected. Hungary Dreher Sörgyárak Zrt This is encapsulated in the concept of the ‘nexus’. India SABMiller India Ltd Italy Birra Peroni S.r.l. This new approach requires both scaling up and refocusing joint Lesotho Maluti Mountain Brewery (Pty) Ltd working with external partners. For example, the Water Futures Malawi Chibuku Products Ltd partnership, which began in 2009 to tackle water scarcity, is now Mozambique Cervejas de Moçambique SARL Panama Cervecería Nacional S.A. more broadly addressing sustainable solutions at water-shed level. Peru Unión de Cervecerías Peruanas Backus y Johnston S.A.A. Thirdly, on ‘beer in society’, last year’s emphasis on alcohol abuse Poland Kompania Piwowarska S.A. (as distinct from responsible drinking alone) has continued, with Romania Ursus Breweries S.A. expanded information about risks at country level, campaigns to Slovakia Pivovary Topvar a.s. South Africa The South African Breweries (Pty) Ltd discourage irresponsible drinking and new policies for the Swaziland Swaziland Beverages Ltd product portfolio. Tanzania Tanzania Breweries Ltd The Netherlands Koninklijke Grolsch N.V. Finally, on employees, reporting systems for health and safety Uganda Nile Breweries Ltd recorded a significant increase in workplace injuries this year. This USA MillerCoors LLC is attributed to improved procedures and policies but reinforces the Vietnam SABMiller Vietnam Company Ltd Zambia Zambian Breweries plc continuing importance of basic operational performance. More broadly, National Breweries plc the implications of the Ruggie report to the UN on human rights were Zimbabwe Delta Corporation Ltd reviewed, with implications across the complete value chain.  SABMiller plc Sustainable Development Summary Report 2012 Further reports and contacts The following key publications are available at www.sabmiller.com/sdreports Further reading You can download these reports, along with country sustainable development reports, at www.sabmiller.com/sdreports Water Futures Multiple Messages Farming Better Futures The Contribution made by SABMiller The socio-economic impact of Oxfam Poverty Footprint to the European Economy Accra Brewery Limited in Ghana SABMiller plc Please note (Registration No. 3528416) This report contains certain forward-looking statements including those that relate to water management, the implementation of certain reuse and recycling measures, investments in alternative energy and expenditure at operational Registered office level. Such statements involve a number of uncertainties because they relate SABMiller House to events and depend on circumstances that will or may occur in the future. Church Street West As a result, actual results may differ from those anticipated in this report depending on a wide range of factors, including, for example, crop yields, consumer demand, Woking, Surrey, England GU21 6HS excise duties and taxation policies, worldwide as well as local economic conditions, Facsimile +44 1483 264103 changes in laws and regulations and the development of new technology. Telephone +44 1483 264000 This report deals with activities of group companies around the world. References in this report to ‘SABMiller’, ‘we’, ‘us’ and ‘our’ refer collectively to the group of operating companies. Head office One Stanhope Gate The paper used in the report contains 75% recycled content, London, England W1K 1AF all of which is sourced from de-inked post-consumer waste. Facsimile +44 20 7659 0111 All of the pulp is bleached using an elemental chlorine free process (ECF). Printed in the UK by Pureprint using their Telephone +44 20 7659 0100 environmental printing technology, and vegetable inks were used throughout. Pureprint is a CarbonNeutral® company. Investor relations Both manufacturing mill and the printer are registered to Telephone +44 20 7659 0100 the Environmental Management System ISO14001 and are Forest Stewardship Council® (FSC) chain-of-custody certified. investor.relations@sabmiller.com Sustainable development Telephone +44 1483 264134 Designed by Further™ furthercreative.co.uk sustainable.development@sabmiller.com
