Sustainability Annual Report 2011 Sustainability Annual Report 2011 2 4 6 Message from the Message from the CEO Main indicators Chairman of the Board 7 11 24 Company Strategies, investments and Corporate governance and intangible assets risk management 34 40 69 Market and economic and Relationship network Eco-efficiency financial performance 76 77 78 Awards and recognitions About the report GRI table of contents 91 92 GRI statement Credits Sustainability Annual Report 2011 2 Message from the Chairman 1.1, 1.2 of the Board Value for clients Redecard seeks to provide balance in the relationship with clients through transparent acts and offering high quality products aiming to be the natural choice of the market Year 2011 was market by the consolidation Experts’ forecasts show that the Brazilian of strategies across the electronic payment economy shall remain stable in 2012, creating a industry. After the opening of the merchant positive environment for banking access to the acquiring market in the second half of 2010, population, and consequently, the evolution companies have adapted to a more competitive of the electronic credit and debit payment environment. In Redecard, the path chosen industry, whose participation has been was to identify the core capabilities of the increasingly important. For the years ahead, we industry, enhance the creation of value for the expect a significant development of payments relationship with clients and thereby increase through the internet for online purchases, a market share. segment that is reaching new users each year and will be one of the Company’s strategic The Company believes that service excellence focuses. means to provide essential services and products with quality and efficiency and, In this scenario, the primary sector’s based on this, develop innovative solutions. contribution to sustainable business As a partner, our strategy is grounded on a development is the introduction of the balanced offer of services, with transparency in governance concept. For merchants to use the pricing and delivery processes. Therefore, Redecard services, they have to be in regular we seek to bring balance and continuity to standing and provide accountability of their our relations. Our partnership with Visa, the activities, which reflects positively on the largest brand in the country, consolidated the transparency and professionalization of the relationship with our client base and became Brazilian retail market. Regarding the sociostructured to attract new merchants. economic aspect, we offer the possibility of Prepayment of Receivables , which increases Aware that there are still many opportunities working capital for small and medium sized to be explored and the improvement of merchants and allows financial management processes must be continuous, the initiatives in line with large retail chains, strengthening implemented in the last two years, focused their ability to compete in the market. on efficiency, quality and infrastructure, were developed to remain in the company’s agenda for the forthcoming years. Nowadays Redecard has the proven ability to offer customized solutions that benefit final customers and merchants in various segments. Sustainability Annual Report 2011 3 Improvements in governance were also outstanding shares and further delisting. This fundamental for the significant evolution of process, already in course, follows all steps, Redecard. With a more agile structure and guidelines and rules set out by the Securities experienced professionals in the industry, we and Exchange Commission of Brazil (CVM) and, approved in this past year the Sustainability as the company is listed in the Novo Mercado and Corporate Governance Policies, among segment, it adopts reference corporate others, and are prepared to monitor the governance practices that will ensure full implementation of their guidelines. transparency to the process. This strategic decision aims to bring the company business On February 7, 2012, the controlling opportunities intrinsic to a financial group of shareholder, Itaú Unibanco Holding S.A., made full range of activities, and further strengthen a Public Announcement about its intention in the medium and long term Redecard’s to carry out a public offer for Redecard’s capacity to generate value to its clients. Márcio de Andrade Schettini Chairman of the BoardChairman of the Board Sustainability Annual Report 2011 4 Message from the CEO 1.1, 1.2, 2.9 A new company Internal restructuring focused on operational efficiency and client satisfaction introduced a new company to the market, with even more quality in the services and long-term vision The first full year of operation in an open to carry out a public offer for Redecard going market, our main focus was the consolidation private, the shares reached on February 8, 2012 of the strategies adopted, with the the price of R$ 36.4, and a market value of R$ implementation of initiatives that are expected 24.5 billion. to remain solid. We reviewed more than four thousand internal activities, redefined priorities, The good results are fruit of important restructured the staff, improved corporate initiatives carried out over the year to offer the governance practices, revisited the supply chain best solutions and retain affiliated merchants. – and we already see positive results. We designed a new client segmentation model, invested in improving call centers and With a committed team, which is more gave priority to our technology, which allowed autonomous to make decisions, we got agility us to end the year with 99.998% of network and operational efficiency to best serve our availability for transaction capture services. clients. These changes resulted in sound We added other brands to our broad portfolio financial performance, especially as from the and created new services to the POS terminals, second quarter. We captured R$ 230.5 billion such the rewards programs “Km de Vantagens”, from credit and debit card transactions, of Ipiranga S.A. network, and Multiplus. 25.2% higher than in 2010 and also above the industry’s estimates of 23%. The Company In 2011, we gave emphasis to achieve all posted net income above R$ 1.4 billion, a Sustainability and Global Compact targets growth of 0.3% over the prior year, even with presented in our 2010 Report, such as the the increase in costs and operating expenses, formalization of the Code of Ethics and Conduct evidencing operational efficiency. for Suppliers, the completion of the company’s second emissions inventory and the list of Our shares appreciated during the period initiatives of the Redecard Institute, whose and at the end of December were priced at mission is education for entrepreneurship and R$ 29.19, with market cap of approximately is entirely aligned with our business. For all R$ 19.6 billion, while in the same month of these achievements, combined with our good 2010 the market value was R$ 14.2 billion. On practices, we are for the third consecutive year February 1, 2012, after the disclosure of the – the only company in the electronic payment financial results for the fourth quarter 2011, industry to be included in the investment the share price increased to R$ 32.00, and the portfolios of the Dow Jones Sustainability market value reached R$ 21.5 billion. After the Index of the New York Stock Exchange and the announcement of our controlling shareholder, Corporate Sustainability Index (ISE) of the São Itaú Unibanco Holding S.A., on its intention Paulo Stock Exchange. Sustainability Annual Report 2011 5 Going forward, we will continue to provide There are various factors underlying this differentiated solutions that add value to growth projection, such as international sports our clients and contribute to the growth of events (Confederations Cup, World Cup and the the Brazilian economy. The outlook is very Olympic Games), which will bring thousands positive. With the industry’s revenues over R$ of tourists to Brazil, the prospect of expanding 600 billion in 2011, the projection for 2015 is the national average income, banking access to that this amount reaches R$ 1.3 trillion and classes C, D and E, and the trend of subsitution double again in the next five years, until 2020, of cash and checks into electronic payments, according to the Brazilian Credit Card and and finally, the availability of new technologies Service Association (Abecs). for electronic transactions, for example, pre-paid cards. We are prepared to follow the progress of the industry, support the growth of the merchants and the development of the Country. Claudio Takashi Yamaguti CEO Sustainability Annual Report 2011 6 Main indicators Main financial and operational performance indicators Indicator 2009 2010 2011 Financial Volume of Credit Card 98,651 123,866 151,272 Transactions (R$ thousandlion) Financial Volume of Debit Card 49,305 60,205 79,207 Transactions (R$ thousandlion) Net Operating Revenue (R$ 3,077 3,400 3,631 thousandlion) Adjusted EBITDA (R$ thousandlion) 2,199 2,217 2,262 Net Income (R$ thousandlion) 1,396 1,400 1,404 Net Margin (%) 45.4 41.2 38.7 Market value at the end of the year (R$ 19.5 14.2 19.6 billion) Price per share at the end of the year 29.00 21.05 29.19 (R$) Dividend Payout1 (%) 100.0 95.0 96.9 Investments (R$ thousandlion) 136.0 261.6 214.8 Rate of availability for acquiring of 99.951 99.988 99.994 transactions (%) Number of employees 793 1,455 1,054 1 – In relation to the net income for the year. Main socio-environmental indicators Indicator 2010 2011 Employees who took e-leaning course on the Code of 99 97 Ethics and Conduct (%) Employees who signed the Code of Ethics and Conduct (%) 100 100 379 direct and more Number of direct and indirect beneficiaries of Redecard NA than 61 thousand Institute indirect beneficiaries Greenhouse Gas Emissions by POS equipment 2.49 5.63 distributed (tCO2e/POS thousand) Fuel consumption – greenhouse gas emissions by 1.96 5.70 employee (tCO2e) Greenhouse gas emissions by m3 (tCO2e) 0.22 0.45 Recycled material (waste sorting) 25.28 16.15 Consumption of certified paper (%) 100 100 Consumption of reused water (m ) 3 NA 12,875.5 Consumption of energy Redecard (GJ) 7,558 11,539 NA – not available, since it was not monitored. Sustainability Annual Report 2011 7 Company Created in 1996, Redecard S.A. is one of the leaders in the electronic payment industry in Brazil. In addition to its activities of merchant acquiring, capturing, transmission, processing and settlement of credit and debit card transactions, it offers prepayment of receivables to merchants, check verification services, rental of point of sale (POS) terminals and capturing and processing of voucher and private label cards. Redecard has a diversified portfolio of products and services to better serve its clients, generating growth opportunities to merchants. 2.1, 2.5, 2.6, 2.7 Redecard is present in all Brazilian municipalities with electric energy and telecommunications. It is controlled by Itaú Unibanco group, and since 2007 it has been a public company with its shares listed on Novo Mercado Segment of BM&FBovespa. For the third consecutive year Redecard is the sole company of the electronic payment industry to be a constituent in the investment portfolios of the Dow Jones Sustainability Index (DJSI) of the New York Stock Exchange, and in the Corporate Sustainability Index (ISE) of the São Paulo Stock Exchange (BM&FBovespa). A national and diversified company Our activities and the country allow us to generate more than six thousand direct and indirect jobs 2.2, 2.3, Redecard is headquartered in the municipality 2.4, 2.8, EC9 of Barueri, State of São Paulo, where, since How it works 2011, most of its 1,054 employees are located. It also has an administrative office in the Redecard is responsible for electronic payment capital city of São Paulo. Call Center, logistics transactions by connecting brands, banks, and field sales for affiliation of merchants, as merchants and cardholders. In this sense, it well as data center services, are outsourced, enters into partnerships with brands that totaling 5,267 professionals. In total 6,321 jobs authorize the processing and capture of are generated. We offer POS terminals to small card transactions, and affiliates merchants and medium sized business and independent to accept the electronic means as a form of entrepreneurs. payment. Sustainability Annual Report 2011 8 The Company receives the cash flow from the discount rate is charged from the merchant for issuing bank and credits it to the merchant’s each purchase made, at a percentage varying checking account after 28 days, for credit card according to the type of transaction. sales, and after one day for debit card sales. A 2.2 Products and services In addition to credit and debit card transactions, we offer accumulation of points under rewards programs, check verification and other services Transactions through Redecard network Credit and debit Credit cards 2008 2009 2010 2011 Our affiliated merchants can make credit card Financial volume 82,941 98,651 123,865 151,272 sales in one or in multiple installments, with (RS million) or without interest. The amount of debit card Number of 897,9 1,017,2 1,194,4 1,401,5 sales is debited to the consumer’s checking transactions (million) account. In 2011, credit card transactions Debit cards 2008 2009 2010 2011 increased by 17.3% and debit card transactions Financial volume increased by 27.3% 42,273 49,305 60,205 79,207 (R$ thousandlion) Number of 851.3 968.7 1,125.9 1,433.4 transactions (million) Rental of POS terminals The POS terminals belong to Redecard, which rents them to its affiliated merchants Benefit (vouchers) and private label cards according to their needs wireline or wireless terminals. Our network also captures transactions using vouchers cards for meals, food, fuel and drugstore as well as gift cards. In addition, it captures transactions from private label cards created by merchants with high sales volume and high frequency of purchases, such as supermarket chains, department stores and magazines. Km de Vantagens We entered into a partnership with Ipiranga gas station chain whereby we developed a capture solution that enabled the integration of its terminals to the transactions of the rewards program Km de Vantagens. Users can now verify their balance, redeem points and participate in promotions quickly and safely. The program has nine million participants throughout the country in more than six thousand gas stations. Sustainability Annual Report 2011 9 Multiplus Check verification In partnership with Multiplus S.A. we For merchants that accept checks as payment implemented a system for verification and means, our network offers the option to make accumulation of points through terminals, a quick online inquiry to the Brazilian check generating differential for Redecard’s verification entity, called Serasa Experian, for a merchants. service fee. Pre-paid mobile top-up Cash-back Under the strategy of acting as a multiA service that allows MasterCard® Maestro and service platform and contributing for the Visa Electron debit cardholders profitability of the affiliated merchants, we to withdraw up to R$ 100 in cash when they offer the electronic credit topping-up for premake purchases of at least R$ 20 at affiliated paid mobile phones at our terminals. With merchants by means of the Redecard PDV TEF MasterCard® Maestro and Visa Electron debit electronic terminals. cards consumers may insert credits to Tim, Claro and Vivo pre-paid mobile phones. This No discount rate is charged to the participating product is kept in controlled scale for better merchants on cash-back transactions. analysis of users’ perception. Sustainability Annual Report 2011 10 Capture technology DMA-PR We invest in innovation to deliver solutions that increasingly meet the needs of our different clients We often perform updates of our terminals and internet sales platform providing more Komerci speed, security and efficiency to merchants and final consumers. At year end, our POS terminal The e-commerce platform, Komerci, enables installed base was composed of 1.066 million the capture of online transactions with units. The projection for 2012 is that more than MasterCard®, Visa and Diners® branded credit half of these terminals will be replaced. Our cards. It also offers services of verification e-commerce platform, “Komerci”, is already of cardholders’ address and CPF and sales undergoing improvements and updates, which authorization. Designed to ensure security will add even more functionalities to the on the web, this tool reduces the need for system, raising the quality level of this service. virtual stores to implement additional security systems and controls. Wireline POS terminals With the e-commerce expansion, one of our focuses for 2012 will be the development of This technology is mainly used for merchants new solutions for this segment, which includes and small business owners who receive more quality and efficiency for the existing payment directly over the counter. platform Komerci, which today has network availability service rate estimated at 99.8%. Wireless POO terminals Redecard Móvel and Redecard Celular The wireless POO terminals meet the needs of those segments that require mobility, such as To offer products suitable for different client bars and restaurants. profiles, we developed two mobility solutions. Redecard Móvel captures transactions through a mobile handset and is used by door-to-door PDV TEF electronic terminals sales professional , and Redecard Celular which turns a simple mobile handset into a credit Large retailers, such as supermarket chains card. Both products are kept in controlled scale and department stores, either have their own for better analysis of users’ perceptions. equipment or count on the PDV TEF solution, Electronic Transfer of Funds (TEF) software that connects the merchants’ network to Redecard. Redecard offers different TEF PDV solutions according to the size and volume of transactions of the merchant. Sustainability Annual Report 2011 11 Strategies, investments and intangible assets DMA-EC The opening of the acquiring market in 2010 changed the industry’s dynamics. For Redecard, while it represented an opportunity to capture Visa brand transactions, it also meant the challenge of adapting to a more competitive environment. The path chosen was to focus on our clients’ needs, and thus differentiating ourselves from our competitors by increasing the operational efficiency, which resulted in a broad review of all our main activities. This intense organizational restructuring process, accompanied by the strengthening of our values, enabled the construction of a more agile and flexible company, able to seek higher levels of integration and innovation, with perpetuity. Accordingly, we believe we can achieve the development opportunities for the electronic payment means that the Brazilian market offers. Strategic plan We invest in quality, efficiency and security to create a lasting relationship and value to clients DMA-SO We believe that the client’s choice defines the In the relationship with merchants we have business survival in an open and competitive adopted a new client segmentation concept, market, so we decided to put it in the center combined with the identification of the main of our strategy, so that all actions pursuing needs of each segment to develop specific greater operational efficiency, innovation and solutions. Clients can now count on services integration of services accrue to strengthen more close to their needs and expectations. this relationship. Thus, we believe that we also As a form to enhance operations, for new add value to the other stakeholders involved in merchants the use of banking channels was our activities, such as shareholders, employees, intensified. suppliers and the community. In addition, we are committed to finding DMA-PR Efforts focused on operational efficiency innovative solutions for our business model, intensified the culture of process improvement so as to incorporate new segments, as we have across the Company, providing more agility and made with some segments of independent competitiveness to our business. We have made professionals – taxi drivers, doctors, dentists changes in the main services and logistics activities, and others (see more in Innovation). which added value to the services delivered by the Company in all regions of Brazil. These changes aimed to accelerate and simplify the processes, in addition to reduce costs along the chain. Sustainability Annual Report 2011 12 Another important point of our strategy is the expansion of partnerships with new brands, which contributes to our geographical expansion and the creation of non-financial products, such as the rewards programs, which reaffirms our position as a multi-brand service network and further differentiates our value proposition (see more in Value Proposition). 4.8 Mission, vision and values Revised between 2010 and 2011, our organizational principles were reviewed in a process that involved all our employees and leaders Vision Values We believe in electronic transactions to drive Everyone for the Client our clients’ businesses. Team is everything Focus on Results Mission Objectivity To provide the best experience in electronic Innovation and Security payments and services. We always want more Ethical and social commitment Sustainability Annual Report 2011 13 Investments DMA-EC We invest for our technology to be prepared to meet the growing market, with quality and security We formed the Projects Committee, which which accounts for the majority of the is fully aligned with the business strategy investments, totaled R$ 152.9 million. This to focus short-, mediumand long-term includes renovation of technology, which is investments. essential to ensure the standard of excellence in quality and security for the universe of The Committee is made up of the CEO and transactions that doubled after the opening other officers and its purpose is to ensure of the market, and tends to grow at least 20% performance accuracy, discipline and quality. per year over the next five years. To this end, we Three categories of priority projects are intend to invest approximately R$ 500 million discussed at monthly meetings: business in 2012, mostly for the modernization of more projects (for products and services), mandatory than 50% of our installed base. projects (to meet market laws and regulations) and infrastructure projects (related, mainly, The expectation of the Brazilian Credit Card to technology). In addition, priority may be and Service Association (Abecs) for the growth given to other projects, according to their of the financial volume of credit and debit importance, such as the data systemization card transactions in 2011 was approximately project to improve internal controls and 20%. At the end of the year we achieved an accountability. increase of 22.1% for credit, and 31.6 % for debit transactions. Total investments in 2011 were R$ 215 million, within the expectation for the period (R$ 200 to Under the mandatory projects, in 2012 a R$ 220 million). Of this amount, R$ 11.2 million change in the settlement of credit and debit was allocated to new brands, such as the card transactions captured by Redecard will be partnership with the Chinese brand China Union completed, whereby the money sent by banks Pay (CUP), which, for example, enables us to will no longer be passed on to the electronic capture the business flow that should grow with payment companies, and instead, will go to the the Chinese tourists during the international Interbank Payment Clearing House (Câmara sports events to take place in Brazil. Interbancária de Pagamentos). This change, recommended by the Central Bank of Brazil, Investments in building infrastructure totaled ensures that the amounts are sent to the R$ 30 million and in IT equipment, R$ 19.8 merchants more directly and with lower risks million. Investments in capture equipment, to the country. Sustainability Annual Report 2011 14 Intangible assets We operate in a growing market, with a recognized brand, high technological capability, linked to a solid financial group We are recognized for attributes that add Cultural initiatives also sought to expand the value to the Company and go beyond our geographic reach. Accordingly, Palco Cultural financial assets. The power of Redecard brand, Redecard (Redecard Cultural Stage) toured 16 cities its market share, its constant attention to from North to South of Brazil, reaching more than technological improvements, which reverts 40 thousand people. Our sponsorship to the Rock in quality and client satisfaction, and the in Rio music festival should also be highlighted solidity of its controlling shareholder the Itaú (see more in Innovation). Unibanco Group are differentials specific of our company and our business. All our marketing actions are guided by the principles set out in Redecard’s Code of Ethics and Conduct, and follow current regulations such as the Market share of Redecard in 2011 (Abecs data) rules of the National Council for the Self-Regulation Credit 39.19% of Publicity (Conar). Debit 39.63% For 2012 we intend to include a specific emphasis on PR6 Total (Credit + Debit) 39.34% advertising communication and direct marketing in *Redecard’s financial volumes of credit and debit card our Code of Ethics and Conduct. transactions in 2011 / revenues from credit and debit card transactions, as per ABECS data on the closing of 2011. With the goal of creating a culture of continuous improvement in the Company, we have implemented 2.8 The book value of shareholders’ equity as of the first Quality Program of Redecard, which created December 31, 2011 was R$ 1.6 billion, while eight working groups responsible for performing the unit value of shares was R$ 2.35. The projects of six months duration. Focused on our clients’ difference between the book value and the satisfaction, the projects were chosen to enhance the stock exchange price reflects the investors’ processes, reduce losses resulting from lack of quality, perception of the Company’s intangible values. and obtain productivity gains. We chose the Six Sigma methodology and the participants had 80 hours of Backed by a significant market share, we training. Each group counted on the support of a continuously work to strengthen the brand Master Black Belt, and monthly monitoring meetings and increasingly obtain more value perception were held with person responsible for each project. by our stakeholders. In the 2011 ranking of At the end of the program, 16 employees have been BrandAnalytics, conducted in partnership with classified as Green Belts. magazine ISTOÉ Dinheiro and company Millward Brown, our brand was in the 22nd place amongst The success of the Program allowed for its the most valuable in Brazil. continuity as from April 2012. The 2nd edition will count on the participation of 27 employees, In 2011, we focused on the direct communication divided into six projects. with the client base through actions of relationship and sponsorship of sports and cultural events to increase brand visibility. These events include the 3rd International Female Soccer Tournament of the City of São Paulo, the world skating championship “Megarrampa”, the “1st World Foot Volley Championship on the sands of Ipanema beach and the Marathon Swimming “Travessia dos Fortes”. Sustainability Annual Report 2011 15 Value Proposition Our strategy is to offer a multi-brand portfolio, security in the operations and innovation in the deliveries DMA-EC Multi-brand To increase its presence in all regions of Brazil, Betting on the country’s growth and the we have signed partnership agreements flow of foreign tourists, Redecard entered with 23 brands. In addition to the dominant into partnerships with other three brands: brands (MasterCard® and Visa®), Redecard also the Chinese brand China Union Pay (CUP) maintains partnerships with brands of strong in phase of implementation, the US brand regional significance. Discover, and the Argentinean brand Cabal. Hipercard at the POS terminals In 2011, Redecard began the process to include the capture of Hipercard transactions, the largest Brazilian brand with more than eight million cards issued and with strong presence in the Northeast and Southern regions of Brazil. Sustainability Annual Report 2011 16 Prepayment of receivables Redecard was the first in the industry to offer The Prepayment of Receivables limits the option of Prepayment of Receivables (or are set based on a system that monitors Prepayment), which is already established each merchant’s history of cancellations in its business strategy as a tool capable of of transactions and manages the risks of providing cash flow and contributing for cancelation according to the chargeback risks. the working capital of merchants. With this option, we help to support the businesses of At the end of 2011 around 37% of our clients the client base, especially small clients that used Prepayment, and the financial volume can better manage their finances and operate of prepaid transactions was R$ 26.7 billion, with greater competitive advantage. corresponding to 17.7% of the total financial value of credit card transactions. DMA-EC By adhering to prepayment, merchants receive advance payment against a discount rate determined according to the merchant’s profile of receivables on sales made, either at sight or in installments, using MasterCard®, Visa, Diners Club International®, Sicredi and Cabal branded cards. Sustainability Annual Report 2011 17 Innovation and Security The periodic renewal of our technology gives us opportunities to add the most innovative payment technology trends Innovation We ended 2011 with 99.994% capture service availability, a rate equivalent to the best in Efficiency in Rock in Rio the world. We reached this level after years of investments in technological resources Rio de Janeiro hosted the largest music festival and intellectual capital, which today enables in the world, Rock in Rio, and we were the Redecard to count on complete duplication of exclusive payment network for both ticket the technological elements that support the sales and items sold during the event. capture of all transactions throughout the Brazilian territory. Literally, Redecard has now With state-of-the-art infrastructure and infrastructure of two acquiring companies of technology to support stressed environments its size, and one of which is able to process two and peak movements, 400 terminals were times our business volume, both operating made available to ensure the completion of the simultaneously 100% of the time. transactions even in case of telecom failure. Five supervisors and 20 technicians were on standby, We believe that innovation also involves and an exclusive call center was structured to offering cutting-edge capture equipment. So respond to emergencies 24 hours a day. every three years 100% of our technology is replaced. For 2012, the Company estimates to increase the level of availability in the phases of processing and financial settlement of the transactions to achieve the same level of availability of the network. Sustainability Annual Report 2011 18 PR1, DMA-PR Security State-of-the-art systems, specialized team, In partnership with banks, Redecard is PR8 updates and training processes compose our responsible for monitoring the merchants security management team. while the financial institutions control the transactions performed by cardholders. We have rigorous prevention processes, We have a laboratory to analyze violated such as anti-fraud and other programs for and seized equipment and investigate the fast identification of irregular acts. We also technologies employed by fraudsters and count on high-technology systems and a then develop anti-fraud solutions. In 2011 the specialized team of professionals who track Company invested R$ 5.7 million to combat all transactions and alert in case of potential fraud. Over the year there was no event or fraud. The periodic renewal of all terminals also lawsuit related to breach of privacy, theft or contributes to reduce risks. loss of client data. PR1 Delivery of terminals is also another process that follows strict criteria, with systemic control of output of products. The equipment arrives at the stores sealed, and the merchants are instructed to allow their handling only by persons duly identified and bearing a Service Order. Certification For the third consecutive year we obtained PR1, DMA-PR the Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard (PCI DSS) certification, which certifies compliance with all information security standards of the electronic payment industry. This certificate was created by PCI Council, which is made up of five large international card brands. We also maintained our efforts to assist our clients to obtain the certification, a way to disseminate the accumulated knowledge on this issue and raise the security level in the chain. By the end of 2011, 325 clients met the criteria defined by PCI Council and counted on our assistance, including Pernambucanas, Sky and Martins Group, as well as Casas Bahia, which received the certificate in the beginning of 2012. Sustainability Annual Report 2011 19 PR1, DMA-PR Training New cryptography process DMA-PR To increase the level of security throughout Our IT area developed a series of processes to the chain and minimize the number of further enhance operational efficiency and violations, we developed, through the Selling the level of security for the transactions. The with Security program, several initiatives that capture systems, database and applications include instructions to merchants, lectures were updated. and internet content. The content offers tips to recognize fraudsters and information A project worth highlighting was the change in on technologies that enhance security for the data cryptography system. In an electronic merchants. By means of the Door-to-Door payment transaction the data travels over a training, we also regularly monitor critical telecommunications network until Redecard, regions and sectors. Fraud risk alerts are where they are processed and subsequently disclosed through official communications, settled by the financial institutions. During such as the Alert Letters, whenever a client is the traffic, data is encrypted and, in case of a victim of some kind of irregular action, and interception, it is impossible to understand Secure Communication, which is proactively and reuse them. Until then, the process was delivered whenever a new type of fraud is done in periods of time and more than one identified. transaction remained with the same key. After the change, this started to be made for each new transaction and the keys do not repeat. This development benefits both merchants and final consumers. In 2011, 600 thousand POS and POO terminals were updated, and in 2012 this project will reach 100% of POS, POO and PDV TEF terminals. Sustainability Annual Report 2011 20 Sustainability outlook Governance and sustainable development initiatives continue evolving in the Company, even more structured and aligned with the business strategy The year was marked by important the first mapping of greenhouse gases developments in the management of emissions and enhanced the environmental sustainability: the publication of objectives practices related to our business, such as and goals, publication of a specific policy, recycling of terminals, Green IT, periodic adoption of new practices and online training monitoring of environmental indicators, for all employees (see more in Sustainability among others (see more in Eco-efficiency). governance). 1.2 From our point of view, some characteristics Sustainability governance DMA-EC, EN of our business contribute to the sustainable and SO development of Brazil. By offering an electronic Our sustainability strategy is guided and platform of business transactions, we reduce defined by the Sustainability Committee, the consumption of paper currency and the which meets on a quarterly basis, and is circulation of vehicles to transport cash and formed by an independent member of checks. The affiliated merchants fulfill a series the board of directors, CEO, CFO and the of financial management and fraud prevention Investor Relations and Sustainability Officer. requirements for the system to operate, which The strategic performance lies with the leads to the formalization of commerce and Sustainability Commission, which is composed consequently supports the continuity of the of representatives of all areas, and meets business. Another initiative is the Prepayment every two months. The Investor Relations of Receivables from sales, which helps small and Sustainability Department, formalized in entrepreneurs to better manage their working 2010, is the area responsible for managing and capital, thus becoming more competitive. disseminating sustainability in the Company. The Company also has the Redecard Institute, whose management has been enhanced. Focused on the development of entrepreneurs, the organization’s goal for the next years is to increase the number of initiatives by means of partnerships (see Civil society). Concerning the environment, we performed Sustainability Annual Report 2011 21 Sustainability governance in Redecard Formation Organizational level Accountability Independent member of the Board of Directors + CEO + CFO + Investor Defining sustainability policies Relations and strategy for Redecard Investor Relations and Sustainability Legal Human Resources Technology and Operations Logistics Implementing the Risks and Controls sustainability policies and Administration of Supplies and Infrastructure strategies at Redecard Strategy Sustainability Executive Board + Marketing Commission Superintendents Spreading sustainability Innovation concepts and Practices Internal Audit in the Company Ombudsman Controllership Treasury Department Commercial Customer Service Products Coordinating the Investor Relations implementation and and Sustainability Executive Board communicating Redecard’s Department Sustainability Policies, Strategy and Concepts DMA-EC, EN Sustainability policy and SO In May 2011, the Investor Relations and Sustainability Department, the Sustainability Commission and the Sustainability Committee jointly developed the Sustainability Policy, approved by the Board of Directors. The document defined the guidelines that would drive our business towards sustainable development: client focus, corporate governance, innovation, and socio-economic Sustainability E-learning DMA-EC, EN and SO and environmental development. Each guideline brings a series of assumptions that To engage employees and expand should drive all areas and people in making dissemination of socio-environmental actions decisions in relation to four key topics. in the internal communication vehicles, the Company created an online Sustainability The guidelines were set out according to topics course. Its content addresses (i) introduction relevant for the sustainability of our business to the sustainability concept, (ii) the that were identified in the stakeholder sustainability path at Redecard (including engagement process that took place in 2010. the Global Compact principles), and (iii) the The policy formalization seeks to encourage Redecard Institute. Available on the intranet, the adoption of practices of management of the e-learning was voluntarily adhered by 466 economic, social and environmental impacts, employees in 2011 and 116 in the beginning of and should become a source of information to 2012. Every new employee is required to take 4.1 employees and a reference to our stakeholders. the e-learning, and in 2012 updated versions of the course will be launched. Sustainability Annual Report 2011 22 DMA-EC, EN Goals and SO formalization of the Corporate Governance One of the developments of our sustainability Policy, developed and approved in December management was the publication in the 2011. To ensure the commitment to include Sustainability Annual Report 2010 of our goals sustainability targets in strategic processes to be achieved in 2011. After a year of work, with and periodically monitor the sustainability the involvement of different areas and regular indicators, action plans were set out for certain monitoring of the Sustainability Commission areas, such as monthly control of electricity and the Sustainability Committee, we fulfilled consumption by Redecard’s data center, almost all of the goals that were set. terminal recycling, employee training and the main causes of absenteeism. The development and formalization of the Sustainability Policy was one of the main For 2012 we defined new goals focused mainly goals established in conjunction with the in management improvements. Redecard’s sustainability goals for 2011 1.2, DMA-EC, Goals Status EN and SO Formalize the Sustainability Policy Completed (see more in Sustainability Policy) Include sustainability targets in Redecard’s strategic processes Completed Monitor the sustainability indicators at regular intervals Completed Offer Sustainability and Redecard Institute e-learning courses Completed (see more in sustainability e-learning) Publish a Code of Ethics and Conduct for Suppliers Completed (see more in Suppliers) Expand the 360º evaluation to the managerial level Completed (see more in Personnel Management) Initiate the structuring of Redecard’s succession plan Not Completed1 Formalize the Company’s Corporate Governance Policy Completed (see more in Governance Guidelines ) Carry out the mapping of the Company’s greenhouse gas Completed (see more in Emissions inventory) (“GHG”) emissions Launch new modules of the Sustainable Enterprise course, of Completed (see more in Civil society) Redecard Institute 1 The structuring of Redecard’s succession plan has not started due to organizational changes at the Company over 2011. The structuring will start in 2012. Redecard’s sustainability goals for 2012 Goals Revise and disclose the Sustainability Policy, to include: i) key business partners; ii) low income community Include ethical principles for advertising communication and sponsorship criteria in the Code of Ethics Carry out internal monitoring of the GHG emissions inventory Formalize the collection procedure for the GHG emissions inventory Develop the pilot project for Cresça e Apareça Program Expand the sustainability indicators to be systematically monitored (there were five in 2011) Participate in forums and/or discussion groups such as Gife (the Association for Institutes, Foundations and Enterprises), EPC (Energy and Climate Group), or CBPG (Brazilian Committee of Global Compact) to discuss and propose best sustainability practices Develop a strategic plan to expand Redecard Institute’s activities and implement indicators to monitor the programs Start Redecard’ succession plan Sustainability Annual Report 2011 23 DMA-EC, EN, Global Compact SO, HR and LA We became signatory to the Global Compact in sustainability presentation available on the December 2009, and since then we have been investor relations website. working to engage our stakeholders in this initiative through different communications We published in the Sustainability Annual channels. In 2011, we included the Global Report 2010 practices relating to the Global Compact’s principles in the client website, Compact’s principles and set out goals for each internal communication posters, the Code of one of them. A year later, we present the status Ethics for employees, the Sustainability Annual of these goals – all fulfilled – and a new set of Report 2011 for the company, the Code of Ethics commitments to be implemented in 2012. and Conduct for Suppliers and also in the COmpleted The Global Compact and Redecard’s goals for 2011 Principles Goals for 2011 Status Goals for 2012 Businesses should support • Include ethical principles for advertising and respect the protection of Formalize a Code of Ethics for Suppliers communication and sponsorship criteria in the internationally proclaimed Code of Ethics human rights Include in Redecard’s Penalty Policy the infraction Businesses should ensure that • for offense of sexual orientation discrimination their own operations are not Revise Redecard’s Infraction Penalty Policy – Include in the door-to-door training verification engaged in abuses of human of illegal situations, such as bestiality, pornography, rights drug dealing and firearms Businesses should support • Include the themes “freedom of Inform in the Code of Ethics e-learning that freedom of association and association” and “collective bargaining” in Redecard supports freedom of association and effective recognition of the the Company’s Human Resources Policy the collective bargaining right collective bargaining right • Businesses should support Include the theme “forced or compulsory Include in the door-to-door training forms to the elimination of forced or labor” in the Company’s Human check for illegal situations, such as forced or compulsory labor Resources Policy compulsory labor Businesses should support the Include the theme “child labor” in the effective abolition of child labor Company’s Human Resources Policy • Include in the door-to-door training forms to check for illegal situations, such as child labor Businesses should support the Include the themes “equality of • Carry out salary and benefit survey to approve elimination of discrimination remuneration” and “elimination of annual adjustment of salaries and benefits in respect of employment and discrimination” in the Company’s Human through the Collective Labor Agreement occupation. Resources Policy Participate in forums and/or discussion groups Include a commitment to the • Businesses should support (such as EPC (Energy and Climate Group) or environment and climate changes in the a preventive approach to WWF (WorldWide Fund for Nature) to discuss development of Redecard’s Sustainability environmental challenges and propose best practices for management of Policy Greenhouse Gas emissions Carry out the first mapping of Carry out internal monitoring of the GHG • Businesses should undertake Greenhouse Gas Emissions. inventory initiatives to promote greater Obtain declaration from the company Formalize the collection procedure for the GHG environmental responsibility. that recycles POS terminals informing the emissions inventory destination of hazardous materials Businesses should encourage • the development Set up a workgroup to analyze the Periodically monitor the consumption of and communication of measurement model of the energy electricity by Tivit data center as well as reused environmentally friendly consumption of Redecard’s Data Center water consumption technologies Update and apply: e-learning of the Code • Businesses should work of Ethics and Conduct; e-learning of Ethics Include in the Penalty Policy penalties for cases of against all forms of corruption, in Competition and e-learning on Money involvement in corruption including extortion and bribery Laundering Prevention Sustainability Annual Report 2011 24 Corporate governance and risk management Since 2007 Redecard has been listed on the Novo Mercado segment of the São Paulo Stock Exchange (BM&FBovespa), a listing segment of voluntary adhesion to differentiated corporate governance practices. Therefore, Redecard follows a strict governance model. The Company’s shares are included in the Index of Corporate Governance (IGC) and the Differentiated Tag-Along Rights (Itag). In 2011, the Board of Directors approved four new policies to formalize principles and practices already adopted: Corporate Governance, Sustainability, Shareholders Remuneration and Related-Party Transactions. Governance guidelines Structural changes, publication of policies and dissemination of ethical principles are important advances in the Company 2.9 Under the internal restructuring process Our compensation policy includes the 4.5 the executive board underwent changes, Profit Sharing Program, which is tied to streamlining decision-making processes. A new business goals. Annually, superintendents CEO was elected and the number of executive and members of management are benefited officers was reduced from eight to five, as well by Stock Options under the Stock Option as the number of superintendences, which Program, which allows them to purchase changed from 30 to 20. Redecard shares according to rules set out by the Board of Directors. In 2011, the Company Redecard follows the transparency, fairness, reviewed the functions of the Chief Financial corporate governance and accountability Officer, who, together with the Investor principles set out in the Code for Best Practices Relations and Sustainability Officer, are of Corporate Governance, of the Brazilian now subject to goals linked to variable Institute of Corporate Governance (IBGC). It compensation related to the Company’s was one of the first companies to voluntarily socio-environmental performance (see adhere to the Brazilian Association of Publiclymore in Standard Financial Statements 2011, Held Companies (Abrasca) Code of SelfExplanatory Note number 23). Regulation and Best Practices, which contains rules and recommendations that aim to contribute to improving corporate governance practices, promoting sustainability and continuity of public companies and creating long-term value. Sustainability Annual Report 2011 25 4.1, 4.3 Governance structure In 2011 we implemented the annual self4.10 evaluation of the Board of Directors, and the General Meetings are held in the first four evaluation of performance of each member, months of each year to approve the financial individually. This evaluation is performed by a statements, elect members of the Board of specialized company, and it applied to all board Directors and deliberate on the allocation of members and addressed corporate governance the net income. The Board of Directors is in aspects. charge of developing and approving mediumand long-term business strategies, defining The Executive Committee, which is made policies, appointing the executive officers and up of the CEO and five executive officers, is monitoring their acts. In 2011, the Board of responsible for managing the Company’s Directors was made up of eight members, 50% business according to the strategy established of them were independent directors, exceeding by the Board of Directors. The officers are the minimum percentage recquired by the appointed by the Board of Directors for a twoNovo Mercado Regulations, which is 20%. years term of office, reelection also is allowed. In the beginning of 2012, a new position in 4.7 The Board of Directors members are chosen for the executive board was created – the Human a two-years term of office, reelection is allowed Resources and Marketing Officer. according to the Bylaws. The board members must have knowledge about the Company’s business and experience in finance, capital market, accounting, corporate legislation, among other items. Conflict of interests 4.2, 4.6 In order to avoid conflict of interests, the functions of Chairman of the Board of Directors and vice-president (executive position) can no longer be exercised by the same person, as provided for in our Bylaws. In addition, the members of the Board of Directors may not hold positions in competing companies. The conditions were in the Policy on Related-Party Transactions approved by the Board of Directors in December 2011. Our Codes of Ethics and Conducts also operate as instruments to prevent personal interests of employees and suppliers from conflicting with the interests of Redecard, its clients, shareholders and partners. Sustainability Annual Report 2011 26 Corporate governance structure Board of Directors Audit Committee Chief Executive Officer – CEO Chief Commercial CHIEF FINANCIAL CHIEF COMMERCIAL Officer – Retail Chief Human Chief Technology OFFICER AND OFFICER KEY, LARGE and Operations, Resources and Officer GENERAL COUNSEL AND VERTICAL CLIENTS Products and Marketing Officer Strategy Superintendence of Audit Members of the Board of Directors Members of the Board of Directors Position Márcio de Andrade Schettini Chairman Caio Ibrahim David Vice president Alessandro Giuseppe Carlucci Independent Director* Fernando José Costa Teles Director Horacio Lafer Piva Independent Director* Laércio José de Lucena Cosentino Independent Director* José Roberto Haym Director Marcelo Fernandez Trindade Independent Director* *As required by the Novo Mercado Regulations Members of the Executive Board Officers Position Claudio Takashi Yamaguti Chief Executive Officer Marcelo Kopel Chief Financial Officer and General Chief Commercial Officer – Key, Large Augusto Lins and Vertical Clients Chief Commercial Officer – Retail, Operations, Carlos Zanvettor Products and Strategy Plínio Cardoso da Costa Patrão Chief Technology Officer Fabio Herszkowicz Chief Human Resources and Marketing Officer Viviane Behar de Castro Chief Investor Relations and Sustainability Officer 4.1, 4.3 Nicolas Alfredo Wsevolojskoy Products Managing Officer Sustainability Annual Report 2011 27 4.9, DMA-SO, Committees EN, EC, LA The Board of Directors counts on specialized Sustainability Committee; Risk, Fraud committees to support the decision-making Prevention, Compliance and Legal Committee; process by previously analyzing the issues to Human Resources, Compensation and Options be addressed to the board members. After Committee and Disclosure and Trading the restructuring, the number of committees Committee. All of them are composed of at changed from eleven to five: Audit Committee; least one member of the Board of Directors. Supporting Committees Frequency of Committee Participants Functions meetings Evaluates the internal control and risk management systems Four non-executive members implemented by the executive board, the Company’s operations Monthly Audit Committee1 with accounting and audit compliance with the legal requirements, regulations and policies, meetings expertise and monitors the internal and independent audit work. This is the unique statutory committee. Monitors the implementation of sustainability policies, strategies CEO and initiatives, evaluates investment proposals from the Chief Financial Officer and sustainability viewpoint, analyzes strategies of relationship with Sustainability General Quarterly internal and external stakeholders, and makes recommendations Committee Chief Investor Relations and meetings to the Board of Directors. Monitors the economic and socioSustainability Officer environmental performance management, indicating the One independent Director achievement of targets, business risks and opportunities. Risk, Fraud Chief Financial Officer and Evaluates internal and external fraud and information security Prevention, General Quarterly indicators, recommends preventive actions for risk management Compliance and One non-executive member meetings and fraud prevention, monitors legal issues that are relevant for Legal Committee One non-executive member the Company, among other activities Analyzes proposals relating to Human Resources, remuneration Human and stock options policies and practices, discusses and proposes Resources, Chairman of the Board of Annual guidelines for recruitment and succession of executives, approves Compensation Directors meetings compensation and profit distribution plans. This committee also and Options Three independent directors supports and monitors trainee, leadership development and Committee employee training programs. CEO Chief Financial Officer and General Analyzes financial reporting material, advises the Investor Disclosure Chief Commercial Officer Quarterly Relations and Sustainability department in managing the and Trading Retail, Products and Strategy meetings disclosure and trading policies, evaluates the updating need and Committee Chief Investor Relations and settle doubts about interpretation of texts and cases of violation. Sustainability Officer Non-executive director Two non-executive members 1 – See Summary of the Audit Committee Report on the Standard Financial Statements. Sustainability Annual Report 2011 28 Committees Supporting the Board of Directors Board of Directors Risk, Fraud Human Resources, Audit Sustainability Prevention, Disclosure and Compensation and Committee Committee Compliance and Trading Committee Options Committee Legal Committee further delisting. On April 12, it made a Public New policies Announcement confirming that the price per share under the public offering shall be R$ 4.8 Redecard’s Board of Directors approved four 35.00, and stating that the (i) the acceptance policies that formalize processes, practices or (ii) express agreement from 2/3 of holders and guidelines on Corporate Governance, of outstanding shares with the Company’s Sustainability, Shareholders Remuneration and delisting are conditions for the completion of Related Party Transactions. the offering. Should such minimum acceptance not be obtained in the Auction, the Public The Corporate Governance Policy consolidates Offering will not be completed, case in which into a single document the principles Redecard will remain registered with CVM as previously adopted, and describes the corporate a publicly-traded company, and will be subject governance structure and other policies and to the differentiated corporate governance regulations. The purpose of the sustainability practices required by the Novo Mercado policy is to define the guidelines that drive the Regulations. business seeking sustainable development. The Shareholders Remuneration Policy formalizes The process is in course, following all steps the internal norms for distribution of dividends set out in the Brazilian Corporate Law (Lei das and interest on capital, while the Related Party S.A.), in the Novo Mercado Regulations and the Transactions Policy is focused on preventing instructions and guidelines of the Securities situations of conflict of interest (see Standard and Exchange Commission of Brazil (CVM). Financial Statements, note 23). Should the Company be delisted, various 2.9 governance practices currently adopted by the Company will change. Shareholding structure Itaú Unibanco Holding S.A. is the controlling shareholder of Redecard, with 50.01% of the Company shares. The remaining shares are traded on the São Paulo Stock Exchange Shareholder Structure* (BM&FBovespa) and, therefore, belong to Common Shares minority shareholders. The Company issues Number % common shares only, and each share entitles Itaú – Unibanco 336,485,351 50.01% the holder to one vote. Treasury shares 109,593 0.01% In February 2012, Itaú Unibanco announced Free floating shares 336,375,761 49.98% its intention to carry out a public offering of Total 672,970,705 100.0% shares for Redecard’s outstanding shares and *Base date: 12/31/2011 Sustainability Annual Report 2011 29 Good governance practices adopted by Redecard • Issuance of common shares, exclusively (“one • Evaluation of the performance of the Board share = one vote”); of Directors and the directors, individually; • Bylaws providing for arbitration to resolve • Committees supporting the Board of conflicts of interest by and between Directors; shareholders and the Company; • Option for Novo Mercado listing segment. • Directors with expertise in operations and • Board of Directors made up of more than finance; 20% Independent Directors • Bylaws providing for veto to information • Minimum dividends of 40% of Adjusted Net access and voting right to directors in case of Income rather than 25%, as required by law; conflict of interest; • Non-accumulation of functions in the Board • Policies and Regulations available on the of Directors and Executive Board. website; • Transparency in Related Party transactions • Number of Board of Directors members (see Standard Financial Statements 2011, varying between five and eleven; note 23). • Adoption of Board of Directors’ Internal Rules; • Segregation of the function of chairman of the Board of Directors from that of CEO; Sustainability Annual Report 2011 30 Ethics The Code of Ethics, whistle-blowing channels, and the internal audit, risk and control areas help us to manage the business with responsibility To ensure transparency, in addition to There was no case involving child labor or HR6, HR7 following the Novo Mercado and CVM young people exposed to hazardous work, rules and regulations, the Company has a forced or slave labor in the operations of consolidated structure addressing Internal Redecard or its suppliers. To avoid such Audit, Risk and Control Area, Ethics Committee, concurrence, in addition to the Code, we hire whistle-blowing channel and institutionalized employees exclusively under the Consolidated corporate policies, in addition to a Code of Labor Laws (CLT), and the agreements made Ethics and Conduct for Employees, and a Code with suppliers include a specific provision in of Ethics and Conduct for Suppliers. this sense. Our target now is to map regions under potential risk of child labor by revising suppliers’ and clients’ controls, where different 4.8, DMA-SO Code of Ethics and Conduct types of risks are assessed. and HR Reviewed every year, the Code of Ethics and Regarding the participation in political DMA-HR Conduct is our main instrument to ensure activities, also regulated by the Code, and SO6 ethical relations with the internal and external the Company does not make financial stakeholders, managing corruptions risks. In contributions to political parties, politicians or 2011 all employees had access to a new version related institutions. Any initiative in this sense and signed an instrument acknowledging its should be taken exclusively on a personal basis, content, and as a form of engagement, the and must be communicated to an Officer or Company disclosed printed materials, offered the CEO. lectures and e-learning courses related to this document. The level of adhesion to the Code The Code also contains information on the DMA-HR and other internal documents is monitored by Ethics Committee, the whistle-blowing and HR3 the Risk and Control area. channels and applicable sanctions, in case of its violation. It also states the importance of HR3, HR8, Of 904 employees with access to computer, the Corporate Sustainability Index (ISE), of the SO3 888 (98.2%) participated in the e-learning, São Paulo Stock Exchange and the Dow Jones which is mandatory and lasts 40 minutes. Sustainability Index (DJSI), of the New York There were 602 hours of training on average. Stock Exchange. For employees without access to computer (116 sales promoters) the training was made through booklets, and 64% of them concluded Ethics Committee the course. Specifically in the security area, two asset security employees participated in The Ethics Committee is responsible for te trainning, but the rest of the team which is updating the Code and aligning the Company’s composed of outsourced workers, did not. values and market practices, as well as disclosing and applying the provisions of the The Code presents a set of practices and Code. This Committee meets on a monthly basis. procedures that guide the employees in different situations. The content is also aligned with six The Committee is made up of the CEO; the principles of the Global Compact: support and Chief Financial Officer and General; the Human protection of human rights; non-violation of Resources Officer; and the superintendents rights; support the freedom of association; support of the Risk and Control, Human Resources elimination of child labor and discrimination. and Internal Audit areas. Its functions are to Sustainability Annual Report 2011 31 4.9, SO4, HR4 analyze violations of the provisions of the Whistle-blowing channel DMA-SO document and Company’s policies, as well as cases of corruption, establish sanctions in Our denouncement tools are structured and cases of infraction and monitor its compliance. offered to all stakeholders we work with, and According to the level of fault, the Committee can be contacted by telephone, email, mail can take the case to the executive board. All and an exclusive internet channel. There is professionals, regardless of the hierarchical also the possibility to schedule a time for a level, are subject to the disciplinary actions set meeting in person. forth by the Ethics Committee. In 2011 no cases or denouncements of discrimination were To ensure confidentiality, all denouncements registered. (including those related to corruption), impartiality and exemption in the analysis, are directed to the Audit Committee. In 2011 we had no occurrence. SO4 The Code of Ethics and Conducts prohibits any kind of retaliation against the employees who use this channel. Topics of the Code of Ethics and Conduct •Conflicts of interest (family links, activities outside Redecard, presents and gifts, publications and public appearance); • Protection of assets and information security; Whistle-blowing channels •Employees (employment practices, harassment and pain and suffering, health • Telephone: (55 11) 2121-1500 and safety, etc.); • E-mail: canaldedenuncias@redecard.com.br, • Shareholders and investors; or comitedeauditoria@redecard.com.br • Business partners; •Mailing address: Canal de Denúncias • Government bodies and regulators; Redecard – Caixa Postal 66 • Press; CEP 01032-970 – São Paulo/SP •Community and environment (including the • In person: scheduling via email or telephone principles of the UN Global Compact). Sustainability Annual Report 2011 32 Risk management We monitor the main risks related to our business and invest to reduce occurrences and mitigate impacts SO2 Our risk management is based on the mapping of all processes and monitored by the Board of Information security DMA-PR Directors through the Audit Committee, which is a statutory body. The area achieved its goal Redecard is certified by the Payment Card for planning the auditable areas, classified Industry Data Security Standard (PCI DSS), into three risk categories according to severity which ensures compliance with the safety levels: high, medium or low. These areas are rules established by the brands and existence reviewed periodically, according to a specific of additional measures to protect the risk analysis methodology. (see note 4 of the transactions and client information. Security Standard Financial Statements 2011). is also addressed in the Information Security Policy, in the Code of Ethics and Conduct for Although the Company does not have a employees, and in the Code of Ethics and formal procedure for assessing corruption Conduct for Suppliers, and regular meetings risks, it is certified under the Sarbanes-Oxley with service providers (see more in Security). law, according to the scope defined by the controlling shareholder, which, among other items, assesses the integrity of financial statements. Fraud prevention 4.11 and We invested approximately 2.3% of the DMA-SO budget in technology and security to combat fraud that bring both financial losses and image risk, in addition to causing impact on clients, shareholders and stakeholders. All POS terminals are equipped to read chipped cards, reducing chances of fraud, and we work aligned with the Brazilian Federal Police to identify groups of fraudsters and different Politically Exposed Persons types of fraud. Risk management also involves assessment As regards money laundering, we set on whether potential and current clients guidelines to analyze signs of offense and perform any type of unethical or illegal activity, financing to terrorists groups in the volumes or whether their owners can be classified as of transactions of the affiliated merchants. Any Politically Exposed Persons. suspected irregular behavior is reported to the Financial Activities Control Council (Coaf), as If, during the affiliation process, it is found that established by applicable laws and regulations. an owner is included in lists of persons involved in terrorist practices, drug traffic or money laundering crimes, the process is cancelled. Sustainability Annual Report 2011 33 Information Security on the Code Contingency management of Ethics and Conduct In order to prevent contingency risks, we invest “Information is one of our main assets. Thus, in the expansion of our servers, which today the protection of information of Redecard, achieve 99.994% of successful capture (see clients and business partners is our priority. more in Innovation). We seek to work with a Respect for Information Security is mandatory safety margin of 30% above the average peak and the records, data and information must be of transactions estimated for a certain place accurate and complete.” and period of time. The contingency capacity also ensures that the terminals operate properly and within the waiting limit expected for small centers and remote places. For 2012 the goal is to reach a margin of 40%. We accounted for approximately 250 million 2.8 credit and debit payment transactions per month, totaling more than 2.835 billion of transactions in a single year. Sustainability Annual Report 2011 34 Market and economic and financial performance According to the Brazilian Credit Card and Service Association (Abecs), the industry revenues grew 24% in 2011, reaching R$ 670 billion. Of the total, R$ 386 billion resulted from credit card transactions, R$ 199.8 billion from debit card, and R$ 84.2 from private label card transactions an increase of 23%, 25% and 23%, respectively, compared to 2010. Accompanying the market growth and benefiting from important initiatives implemented in 2011, Redecard reported annual net income of R$ 1.4 billion, an increase of 0.3% when compared to 2010, as a consequence of its discipline over the year to keep resilient prices, reduce costs and expenses, and maximize operational efficiency. Market With an increase of 24% over the previous year the industry had revenues of R$ 670 billion According to Abecs, the card payment industry Industry revenue by card function (R$ billion)* ended the year with 8.3 billion of transactions, an increase of 18% over the previous year, 255.7 and with 687 million cards, an increase of 9% compared to 2010. 129 59.5 Also according to Abecs, the card industry has 2009 been gaining even more importance in the Credit cards Debit Private cards label cards day-to-day of Brazilians, and now accounts for 26.8% of private consumption in Brazil, a 313.7 growth of 2.5 percentage points in relation to the previous year (see note 15 to the Standard 159.6 Financial Statements 2011). 68.5 Industry revenue (R$ billion)1 Credit cards Debit Private 2010 cards label cards 670.1 541.9 386.5 444.2 199.8 84.2 2011 2009 2010 2011 Credit cards Debit Private cards label cards 1 Source: Abecs 1 Source: Abecs Sustainability Annual Report 2011 35 Economic and financial performance After the market opening we consolidated our service network model and reviewed our main activities, focusing on operational efficiency In 2011 Redecard restructured its operations to maintain discipline on prices, costs and expenses in a scenario that became more competitive after the opening of the market. The operational efficiency strategy was a consequence of the challenge to capture higher volumes (with the acceptance of the Visa brand) and meet demands for higher quality of service and continue generating value to shareholders (see the results in note 15 to the Standard Financial Statements 2011.) 2.8 Net income Net income (in R$ thousandlion) Net income totaled R$ 1,404.4 million, 0.3% higher than the amount of R$ 1,400.0 45.4% 41.2% 38.7% million in the previous year. This number is a combination of the increase of 6.8% in net 1,396.0 1,400.0 1,404.4 operating revenue and the increase in total costs of services rendered and operating expenses, which, together, were 17.2% higher in the year. 2009 2010 2011 Net margin was 38.7%, 2.5 percentage points Net income Net margin lower than in 2010, when it reached 41.2%. In 2009, net margin was 45.4%. The decrease in net margin (net operating revenue / net income) is due to the fact that net operating revenue grew 6.8% while net income grew 0.3% due to the increase in costs and expenses mainly in the first quarter, which later decreased as from the third quarter. In the fourth quarter of 2011, Net Margin reached 45.2% given the control over costs and expenses. Sustainability Annual Report 2011 36 Adjusted EBITDA Adjusted EBITDA consists of operating income In 2011, adjusted EBITDA remained stable, plus depreciation and amortization amounts, despite the market opening, and corresponded minus net financial result, except net financial to R$ 2,262.0 million, 2% higher than the income obtained from the prepayment of amount accounted for in 2010, of R$ 2,216.8 receivables to affiliated merchants, given that million. Adjusted EBITDA margin (adjusted in the Company’s opinion this activity is part of EBITDA / net operating revenue) was 2.9 its operating result. percentage points lower than in 2010, because adjusted EBITDA increased 2.0% and net income 0.3%, in view of the rise in costs and expenses, mainly in the first quarter, but has decreased since the third quarter. In the fourth quarter 2011, Net Margin reached 45.2% given the control over costs and expenses. Adjusted EBITDA (in R$ Variation 2009 2010 2011 thousandlion) (2011 x 2010) Operating result 2,069.5 2,075.7 2,079.4 0.2% (+) Depreciation and amortization 125.3 143.2 180.4 26.0% (-) Net Financial Income (594.8) (604.6) (637.1) 5.4% (+) Income from prepayment of 598.9 602.6 639.2 6.1% receivables Adjusted EBITDA 2,199.0 2,216.8 2,262.0 2.0% Adjusted EBITDA Margin (%) 71.5 65.2 62.3 -2.9 p.p. DMA-EC Gross revenue from services Composition of Total Gross Revenue In 2011, gross revenue from services totaled R$ 3,234 million. The revenue lines refer to credit and debit card transactions, POS equipment rental and prepayment of receivables on credit card transactions. Other revenue, which totaled R$ 185.6 million – 30.4% or R$ 43.3 million higher than in 2010 –, include: (a) revenues from the bank domicile lock-in agreements, (b) capture and transmission services for benefit cards (food and meal vouchers, etc.), (c) check verification services, (d) capture and transmission services 45% Credit card of private label cards, among others. 15% Debit card 19% POS equipment rental 17% Prepayment of receivables 5% Other Sustainability Annual Report 2011 37 Diversification of merchants We have entered into partnerships with merchants in various segments. In 2011, food and housing sectors presented growth. Diversification of affiliated merchants1 – 2010 Diversification of affiliated merchants1 – 2011 25% Food 26% Food 18% Housing2 19% Housing2 17% Clothing 15% Clothing 12% Tourism and Entertainment 12% Tourism and Entertainment 11% Vehicles3 10% Vehicles3 8% Other 10% Other 6% Health 6% Health 2% Education 2% Education 1 – Based on the financial volume of the credit and debit card transactions for the last 12 months ended December 31, 2011 2 – Building material 3 – Fuel, services and autoparts Sustainability Annual Report 2011 38 EC1 Value Added Statement The generation of value added reached R$ Rentals 2,581.8 million in 2011 (2010: R$ 2,527.4 million; In 2011 Redecard paid R$ 10.7 million (2010: R$ 2009: R$ 2,450.7 million). 7.6 million; 2009; R$ 6.5 million) under rental agreements with third parties. These rentals Personnel and executive management refer to the building where the Company’s The Company’s employees and executive head office is located, in the city of Barueri, and management received R$ 217.4 million from its local office in the city of São Paulo. the revenues generated in 2011 (2010: R$ 185.6 million; 2009: R$ 135.8 million); 68.5% of this Shareholders amount refers to salaries and related charges, According to our capital structure and dividend 15.9% to benefits, and 15.6% to Profit Sharing. policy, in 2012 we paid dividends and interest on shareholders’ equity based on the results Taxes achieved in 2011, totaling R$ 1,404.4 million Out of revenues generated by the company, (2010: R$ 1,400.0 million; 2009: R$ 1,394.6 R$ 949.2 million were used to pay taxes, fees million). Of this amount, 5.0% refers to Interest and contributions (2010: R$ 934,3 million; on Capital, and 38.9% to Dividends, and 56.1% 2009: R$ 913.9 million), 97.0% of this amount to Retained Earnings, which are allocated for refers to federal taxes, and the remaining to distribution of Dividends and recognition of municipal taxes. capital reserves. The Company’s payout was 100.0% (2009), 95.0% (2010) and 96.9% (2011). Value Added Statement (DVA) 2009 2010 2011 5.5% Personeel and managment staff 7.3% Personeel and managment staff 8.4% Personeel and managment staff 37.3% Taxes 37.0% Taxes 36.8% Taxes 0.3% Rentals 0.3% Rentals 0.4% Rentals 56.9% Shareholders 55.4% Shareholders 54.4% Shareholders Sustainability Annual Report 2011 39 Working capital analysis Working capital structure Third Parties’ capital 100% 100% 8.2% 6,1% 5,5% 90% 90% 80% 80% 70% 70% 60% 60% 50% 94,5% 96.3% 93.3% 89.0% 91.8% 93,9% 50% 40% 40% 30% 20% 30% 10% 20% 2009 2010 2011 0% 2009 2010 2011 10% 3.6% 8.0% 3.7% 3.1% 3.0% 0% Own Capital Payables to Promissory Notes merchants Third parties Other “Payables to merchants” account for most promissory notes in the total amount of R$ of third parties capital. This also happens 776.7 million with final maturities for March in current assets with “receivables from and April 2011. The increase in 2011 to 65.5% is card issuing banks”, due to the fact that the due to the 2nd issuance of promissory notes in Company acts as intermediary between issuing the total amount of R$ 2 billion with maturities banks and Redecard’s affiliated merchants. for January, February and March 2012. The promissory notes’ proceeds were used to For our Capital Structure to be comparable to increase the Company’s working capital. other companies of the industry, we prepared a statement excluding the amount relating to “payables to merchants”: Liquidity ratio By excluding the “payables to merchants” Current Liquidity Ratio (current assets / current amount, the increase in third party’s capital liabilities) remained nearly the same for the from 29.1% in 2009 to 50.6% in 2010 is due past three years and shows the Company’s full mainly to the issuance on April 28, 2010 of capacity to honor its commitments. Sustainability Annual Report 2011 40 Relationship network 4.14, 4.15 As an electronic means of payment company, we intermediate different links in the value chain and seek to maintain long-term partnership relations. For the third consecutive year we held stakeholder panels to review the topics that are more relevant for the continuity of Redecard’s businesses. The stakeholders invited were those who cause and are subject to impact by and/or from the Company. These are: employees, directors, clients, suppliers, banks, brands, investors, market analysts, controlling shareholder and representatives of the civil society. Relationship with stakeholders in 2011 Publics Initiatives Customer service channels (call center, services website, SAC, Redecard’s Ambassador and Ombudsman) Client Meetings and visits to clients Satisfaction Survey Client Panels (Client Lifecycle) Internal Communication (newsletters Em Rede and posters Em Cartaz) In-Company Week of Occupational Accident Prevention Satisfaction Survey Quality of Life Week Employees Quality of Life Program Papo (Program for Personal Support and guidance) RH Responde (HR Answers) Code of Ethics Whistle-blowing channel Ethics Committee Code of Ethics and Conduct for Suppliers Whistle-blowing channel Suppliers Ethics Committee Social-environmental Guidelines in the Purchase Policy Dedicated service for each category Partners (banks and brands) Relationship teams with Banks and Brands Initiatives of private social investment via Redecard Institute Support to programs (Culture, Sports and Social Initiatives) Civil society under Tax Incentives Cresça and Apareça Program Public Meetings with the Association of Capital Markets Analysts and Investment Professionals (APIMEC) Investors Annual meeting with Redecard Investors (“Redecard Day”) Conferences and Non Deal Roadshows (NDRs) Meetings and Conference Calls Entities and Professional Regular working meetings, according to the associations’ Associations agenda Press Press agency Sustainability Annual Report 2011 41 Engagement As part of the sustainability management, we consult our strategic stakeholders on issues that are relevant for the Company Since 2009 Redecard has invited were invited, as well as small, mid-sized and representatives of its main stakeholders to large clients, suppliers, banks, brands, investors, participate in a study to identify the most analysts and, for the first time, representatives relevant topics for the continuity of the of the civil society (community) as well as Company’s business, to be addressed in the controlling shareholder. The number of the Sustainability Annual Report. This study participants increased from 32, in 2009, and 49, is performed through the analysis of the in 2010, to 78 in 2011. previous Sustainability Report, seeking the improvement of the current document. The end result was the identification of ten 3.5, 4.14, 4.15, relevant issues which were grouped into six 4.16, 4.17 In this edition, the process is based on topics: client focus, corporate governance interviews with officers, questionnaires and risk management, operational efficiency, answered by superintendents and members innovation and security, eco-efficiency and of the Board of Directors, a panel of employees socio-economic development. and a panel of external stakeholders. Employees of various areas and holding different positions Stakeholders participating in the panels Ten most relevant issues raised by the stakeholders: • Risk Management • Incentives to business ethics • Concern on transparency and accountability • Fight against fraud and corruption • Actions that focus on client satisfaction • Incorporation of clients’ feedback on the development of services and new products • Priority for investments in innovation • Investment in innovative products against fraud • Attraction and retention of talents • Incentives for the recycling of POS terminals 33% Employees 16% Suppliers 8% Brands 7% Banks 6% Communities 3% Associations 2% Clients 2% Analysts/Investors 2% Controlling shareholder 1% Investors Sustainability Annual Report 2011 42 Relevant issues for the continuity of Redecard’s business Based on the outcome of the 2011 engagement process, and on the strategic pillar, we established the following relevant topics for the sustainability of the business: Focus on client Corporate governance and risk management Operational Innovation Eco-efficiency efficiency and security Social and economic development These topics are included in the Sustainability Annual Report 2011, in which the corresponding GRI indicators are reported. Sustainability Annual Report 2011 43 Clients New client segmentation and internal restructuring focused on efficiency and quality of services are the basis for the client focus strategy We strive to create a value proposition to different merchants’ profiles, which go beyond Customer service channels DMA-PR an attractive pricing and include security, efficiency and transparent relationship. To increase the speed, efficiency and quality of the services, Redecard redesigned its With a new concept of client segmentation communication channels and structured a and the development of specific solutions in new model of customer service. All the cells products and services, the service and logistics were centralized in the call center and are areas have undergone significant changes in prepared to provide differentiated services to order to deliver services and products with all company’s groups of interests: clients of all more efficiency and quality. segments, field technicians, sales force, partner companies, sales executives, affiliating bank Under the management structure, the Chief branches, among others. Commercial Officer Large Clients and the Chief Commercial Officer Retail, Products and In addition to performing numerous Strategy, are responsible for the commercial trainning initiatives, the area started to performance. The commercial planning engage more than 4,000 employees with addresses the sales and post-sales processes, the implementation of Cresça and Apareça including the delivery and maintenance of program, whereby those who exceed in terminals. cordiality, quality and diligence at work are rewarded with courses paid by Redecard. In DMA-PR Our entire sales force is constantly trainned 2012, this area will invest 2% of its budget in – in person and online – and is instructed training, incentive and monitoring of quality. to present differentiated value proposals to clients. Teams operate nationwide to provide adequate services to each segment and region, under attractive compensation plans that encourage and recognize the best performance, which helps to reduce the turnover rate. To strengthen the relationship with card issuing banks, we count on exclusive teams. The goal is to increase the number of merchants through this channel and strengthen cross-selling, bringing positive results for both the financial institutions and Redecard. Sustainability Annual Report 2011 44 Customer Service (SAC) and Ombudsman The call center receives on average 2 million calls per month. If the client feels the service was not satisfactory , he/she can contact the Customer Service (SAC), which was implemented in 2011. If a complaint has not yet been addressed, the client can also contact the Redecard Ombudsman through the Company’s website or telephone. To ensure the transparency in the procedures related to complaints, both Embaixador Redecard SAC and Ombudsman are managed by the Procurement, Quality and Process department, (Redecard Ambassador) which counts on a dedicated team to check the origin of the dissatisfaction. Any critical point is Not only the commercial area works for quality taken to the executive board. in customer services. Any employee who, by attending an affiliated merchant, identifies In 2012, the Company will implement a proproblems in the POS terminal can request its active Customer Service, which it will contact repair. This is the Embaixador Redecard program, the clients in cases of recurring calls within a which provides an exclusive call center number short period of time. and e-mail for this type of demand. Satisfaction Survey Every six months the Institutional Relations PR5 and and Survey department carries out a DMA-PR satisfaction survey with Redecard’s clients, where it evaluates the services provided Panels (via telephone, internet, or in person), the products and services offered and the Essential for the business, client feedback is PR5 relationship actions. The survey is quantitative, heard every time a new service is launched, conducted on a nationwide coverage, and is a price is altered, or an advertising campaign adapted according to different segments. The is released. To measure the perception and information is taken to the responsible areas assessments of our merchant base, surveys and the executive board, which develop action are made before and after each of the plans for improvement. aforementioned actions. We consider that the adhesion and satisfaction Annually, we evaluate the ombudsman levels are positive, in line with market practices processes and conduct brand and market for high penetration services, such as the case tracking. One of the initiatives taken last year of Redecard. In 2011, three out of four clients was a set of panels to identify improvements in that participated in the survey were satisfied or the process according to the lifecycle of clients. very satisfied with the Company. Based on the “mystery shopper” concept, the study aims to experience a few days routine of For the following years, the goal is to develop a client, and then create a monitoring panel to quantitative and qualitative indicators to identify areas of improvement. A result raised measure the performance in our online in this edition shows the need to give greater channel, monitor the number of accesses, and support to newly-affiliated clients, especially track the paths taken, among other issues. at the time of the installation of the POS terminals. Sustainability Annual Report 2011 45 Employees Our personnel management model is guided by the meritocracy principle and follows the new market dynamics After the internal restructuring and the review Concerning the employees’ profile, 53% are LA2 LA2 and of the organizational principles, the Company men, 47% are women, and 68% are between DMA-LA created in 2012 the Human Resources and 30 and 50 years old. One of the targets for Marketing Executive Officer function. The new 2012 is to monitor the age level of the new personnel management guidelines prioritize professionals. Despite the staff reduction, we a lean and efficient staff. Under the internal met the legal requirement to maintain 5% of restructuring process, when we reviewed employees with disabilities. around 4,000 activities, we eliminated a series of repetitions and bureaucracies in the routine The lowest wage, valid for all operating units, DMA-LA and of operations, which resulted in optimization was 1.47% above the national minimum wage. EC5 plans and improvement of quality. Some In 2010, the compensation was 1.33% above positions have been eliminated and new ones the minimum amount stipulated by the have been created or merged. In the SME government, and in 2009, 2.32% higher. Salary segment, all sales force were outsourced. differences exist based on professional criteria, Consequently, the number of employees such as merit and promotions, regardless of decreased by approximately 400 people, and the gender of the employee. the total number changed from 1,455 in the end of 2010, to 1,054, in the end of 2011 – not Although the Company does not count on any including the interns. elected representative for collective bargaining, 100% of the employees are covered by the The dismissals have been conducted with agreements. We comply with the agreements ethics and transparency, in accordance with stipulated by the Union and disclose the final labor laws, ensuring benefits and assistance results of the bargaining through internal in the outplacement process. Over the year, electronic communication channels. LA4 and LA5 the turnover rate corresponded to 73.24%, being higher among male employees (39.94%) and between 30 and 50 years of age (37.10%). In addition to the internal restructuring, the increase in the industry’s competition, due to the market opening, also contributed to this high turnover rate. Sustainability Annual Report 2011 46 LA1 Number of professionals by function level 2010 2011 Category Women Men Women Men Executive Board and 10 24 6 18 Superintendence Management 50 75 44 65 Head/coordination 59 110 34 34 positions Technical/supervision 56 69 57 99 positions Administrative 206 213 222 206 Operational 296 287 126 135 Outsourced 1,527 3,107 1,527 3,740 Apprentices 0 0 0 0 Trainees 0 0 4 4 Interns 1 3 4 5 Total, excluding 678 568 497 566 outsourced workers 1,246 1,063 Total, including 2,205 3,675 2,024 4,306 outsourced workers 5,880 6,330 LA1 Number of employees by type of employment contract Category Women Men Women Men Indefinite term 678 781 497 566 (permanent, CLT) Outsourced 1,527 3,107 1,527 3,740 Total 2,205 3,888 2,024 4,306 LA1 Number of employees by type of job Category Women Men Women Men Full time 677 778 493 561 Part time (interns) 1 3 4 5 Total 678 781 497 566 LA1 Number of employees by region Category Women Men Women Men Southern Region 55 42 25 23 Southeast Region 630 566 490 425 Midwest Region 27 22 7 4 Northeast Region 54 42 43 38 Northern Region 15 6 1 7 Total 781 678 566 497 Sustainability Annual Report 2011 47 LA13 and 1.2 Percentage of employees by gender Function level Women Men Board of Directors 0% 100% Executive Board and 25% 75% Superintendence Management 40% 60% Head/coordination positions 50% 50% Technical / supervision positions 37% 63% Administrative 52% 48% Operational 48% 52% Trainees 50% 50% Interns 44% 56% Total 47% 53% Percentage of employees by age group LA13 and 1.2 Between Over 50 Under 30 Function level 30 and 50 years old years old years old Board of Directors 37% 63% 0% Executive Board and 8% 92% 0% Superintendence Management 6% 91% 3% Head/coordination positions 0% 88% 12% Technical / supervision positions 6% 78% 15% Administrative 3% 58% 39% Operational 2% 64% 34% Apprentices 0% 0% 0% Trainees 0% 0% 100% Interns 0% 0% 100% Total 3% 68% 29% LA13 Disabled employees Function level Women Men Board of Directors 0% 0% Executive Board and 0% 0% Superintendence Management 0% 0% Head/coordination positions 0% 6% Technical / supervision 50% 2% positions Administrative 55% 10% Operational 0% 0% Apprentices 0% 0% Trainees 0% 0% Interns 0% 0% Total 53% 47% Sustainability Annual Report 2011 48 LA14 Proportion of base wage between men and women, by position (%) Function level 2009 2010 2011 Board of Directors NA NA NA Executive Board and Superintendence 81% 84% 81% Management 94% 92% 92% Head/coordination positions 91% 86% 98% Technical/supervision positions 95% 85% 93% Administrative 93% 95% 87% Operational NA 98% 81% Apprentices NA NA NA Trainees NA NA 100% Interns 100% 100% 100% Total number of employees who left the LA2 organization due to layoff or retirement 2009 168 2010 288 2011 1 772 1 – The significant number of layoffs in 2011 is due to changes in the economic scenario and the operational strategy of the Company. LA2, 3.9 Turnover rate by gender1 (%) 2009 2010 2011 Male 12.11% 10.63% 39.94% Female 9.08% 9.00% 33.30% Total 21.19% 19.63% 73.24% 1 – Turnover rates have been calculated by dividing the total number of layoffs by the total number of employees. Turnover rate by age group1 (%) LA2, 3.9 2009 2010 2011 Under 30 years old 3.40% 8.25% 33.59% Between 30 and 50 years old 14.75% 10.97% 37.10% Over 50 years old 3.03% 0.41% 2.56% 1 – The turnover rates have been calculated by dividing the total number of layoffs by the total number of employees. Turnover rate by region1 (%) LA2, 3.9 2009 2010 2011 Southern Region 0.76% 2.25% 7.50% Southeast Region 19.17% 14.86% 55.03% Midwest Region 0.50% 0.75% 5.03% Northeast Region 0.50% 1.43% 3.98% Northern Region 0.25% 0.34% 1.71% 1 – The turnover rates have been calculated by dividing the total number of layoffs by the total number of employees Sustainability Annual Report 2011 49 LA2 Number of layoffs by gender 2009 2010 2011 Male 96 156 421 Female 72 132 351 Total 168 288 772 LA2 Number of layoffs by age group 2009 2010 2011 Under 30 years old 27 121 354 Between 30 and 50 years old 117 161 391 Over 50 years old 24 6 27 LA2 Number of layoffs by region 2009 2010 2011 Southern Region 6 33 79 Southeast Region 152 218 580 Midwest Region 4 11 53 Northeast Region 4 21 42 Northern Region 2 5 18 Total number of workers hired during the reporting period, LA2 who left the organization due to layoff or retirement1 2009 188 20102 2,344 20112 4,343 1 – Only outsourced workers. 2 – The increase in 2010 and 2011 is due to the substitution of service companies and increase in outsourced services. Note: Given the changes in the database system, the number of employees hired has changed if compared to the figures for 2009 and 2010. The new data were cataloged and input in proper databases and matched with documentation and surveys of the client area. The target for 2012 is to achieve the indicator of number of hirings by age group for the number of employees hired. LA2 Number of hirings by gender1 (%) 2009 2010 2011 Total % Total % Total % Male 437 17.37 1,549 22.15 1,349 14.04 Female 708 28.14 3,117 44.57 3,611 37.58 1 – Only outsourced workers. Sustainability Annual Report 2011 50 DMA-LA Evaluation and recognition in the future, aiming to build the succession plan. Three guidelines are taken into account: Our personnel management system is based (i) candidate’s expertise (skill), his/her interests, on meritocracy principles, which encourage and (iii) the company’ needs. In 2011, due to the productivity through bonuses and less fixed restructuring of the staff, this project has been benefits. With more responsibilities, each interrupted, but it will be resumed in 2012. professional has more autonomy to make decisions. DMA-LA At the beginning of each year, the targets Employees, by gender, who were subject to for each employee are set, starting from the performance evaluation LA12 officers and superintendents to the managers Women 98% and their teams. Based on such targets, the 2009 areas develop action plans. Men 90% The meritocracy policy is enhanced with the Women 94% 2010 Profit Sharing Program (also called “PLURAL” Men 95% Programa de Participação nos Lucros e Women 83% Resultados Alcançados), which recognizes 2011 Men 83% different outcomes, motivating the staff to exceed the targets set and bringing better results for the company. The Profit Sharing Program stimulates the individual targets’ alignment with the corporate targets and delivery of results according to expected behaviors. DMA-LA Every year all employees undergo an evaluation of targets and skills, with the exception of the employees who hold operational positions and are evaluated based on individual skills, and those who joined the company between October and December. Since 2010 we have conducted the 360º Evaluation Program, which assess the Company’s seven skills: Client Focus, Make it Happen, Building of Relationships, Operational Excellence, Sense of Ownership, Innovative Attitude and Personnel Management. In the first edition of this program, 31 superintendents were evaluated according to the methodology, and in 2011 the number raised to 102 superintendents and managers. For the coming years, the purpose is to extend the 360º Evaluation to all employees. Another purpose of the personnel management area is to identify professionals who may hold key positions at the Company Sustainability Annual Report 2011 51 Compensation policy and employee benefits Pension Plan EC3 (Barueri and São Paulo offices) Redecard pays 100% of the cost of a defined Compensation benefit pension plan for its employees, • 14 salaries a year: 12 monthly salaries plus two and 50% of the contributions to a defined salaries (1/12 of the fixed salary); contribution pension plan (Supplementary • Short-term incentive: paid in the form of Pension Plan) for employees who have opted monthly commission to sales employees; for this plan. • Medium-term incentives – in the form of Profit Sharing Program (PLURAL), to all In 2011, we implemented a new defined employees; benefit pension plan, where the employee • Long-term incentive: in the form of can contribute with up to 9% of his/her salary Stock Option, granted annually to all and the Company matches with 100% of the superintendents and members of the amount contributed by the employee. executive board. Benefits • Defined Benefit Pension Plan – the adhesion to the plan is voluntary and is offered to all employees. Redecard contributes with the same amount contributed by the employee. The employees have the possibility to retire from the age of 50 onwards; • Health Care Plan of Free Choice with Affiliated Knowledge Management Network; • Dental Care Plan; In 2011 we invested more than R$ 6.6 million • Group life insurance; in training, which is equivalent to 0.2% of • Reimbursement of chartered bus service; the net income. Of this amount, R$ 2 million • Meal and grocery vouchers (except for were employed in internal training and R$ 145 managers, superintendents, officers and CEO); thousand in the hiring of Human Resources • Parking at the company (for managers, consulting services. superintendents, officers and CEO); • Check-up (for managers, superintendents and With more men in the staff, the participants DMA-LA officers); of the training were 566 men and 497 • Christmas gift basket and toy gift voucher; women of different levels of functions, • Supplementary payment of sickness and totaling an average of 17 hours of training labor accident allowances; per male employees, and 15 hours per female • Extension of maternity leave from 120 to 180 employees. The highlights were the projects days (Empresa Cidadã Program); Escola de Negócios Redecard and Academia • Program for Personal Support and Guidance de Líderes. Implemented in 2011, Escola de (Papo). Negócios (School of Business) offers specific technical and behavior business content for development of professionals nominated by their respective managers. The training had 358 participants. The purpose of Academia de Líderes (Academy of Leaders) project is to train leaders, and its focus was the “Everyone for the Client”guideline. It had 350 participants. Employees who have been with the Company LA11 and for more than six months are eligible for DMA-LA subsidies for undergraduate, graduate (lato sensu) and MBA courses, in addition to language courses. The prior year’s performance evaluation results are taken into account for the granting of the subsidies. The enrollment rules are available on the Company’s intranet. The Company pays 70% of the total amount Sustainability Annual Report 2011 52 of graduate and MBA courses (up to the limit The Company does not have any formal plan of R$ 18 thousand), and from 50% to 80% of offering assistance, training and consulting for the amount of language courses (up to R$ employees who are to retire, however, it offers 800 per month), according to the skill level of outplacement services for the professionals the candidate. In 2011, 157 scholarships were who held executive functions and were laid off. granted to 151 professionals (some employees received more than one scholarship), totaling R$ 613 thousand. LA10 Training Total employees Total number of Hours per Function level Gender of the function hours employee level Executive Board and Men 237 18 13 Superintendence Women 98 6 16 Men 2,301 65 35 Management Women 1,621 44 37 Head/coordination Men 2,603 34 77 positions Women 1,328 34 39 Technical/ Men 2,272 99 23 supervision positions Women 1,748 57 31 Men 916 206 4 Administrative Women 1,086 222 5 Men 444 135 3 Operational Women 514 126 4 Men 584 4 146 Trainees Women 683 4 171 Men 258 5 52 Interns Women 144 4 36 Men 9,615 566 17 Total Women 7,222 497 15 LA11 Programs for Development of Skills and Ongoing Learning that support the continued employability and manage the end of the career Number of Number of Amount invested Programs employees scholarships (R$) benefited granted Internal courses 822 1,185,985 822 2009 Financial support for external training or graduate courses 170 604,000 170 Outplacement services 1 – – – Internal courses 1,068 1,049,804 1.068 2010 Financial support for external training or graduate courses 167 661,416 178 Outplacement services 1 – – – Internal courses 732 2,176,563,75 732 2011 Financial support for external training or graduate courses 151 613,706 157 Outplacement services 1 41 683,758 41 1 – Data not monitored in 2009 and 2010. Sustainability Annual Report 2011 53 DMA-LA Attraction and retention of talents Knowledge management data One of our main initiatives for attracting • R$ 6.6 million invested in training in 2011; talents is the trainee program. In 2011 nine • 61 people enrolled in graduate and MBA people were selected and in 2012 there are course; seven participants in the project. Under this • 33 people enrolled in undergraduate courses; program, the trainees are under constant • 33 people enrolled in language courses; supervision of a manager, in addition to having • 11 interns and 11 trainees; mentors who work in different areas of the • 358 students at Escola de Negócios Redecard; Company and are instructed to develop the • 350 students at Academia de Líderes. potential of these young professionals. The internship program had 3,477 people enrolled for eight available positions in 2011. With annual enrollments, the program has 24-month duration and currently counts on 11 interns. These young professionals go through two departments and receive constant Internal Communication guidance from the Human Resources area. In average, 50% of these interns are hired by the Our main communication vehicles are the Company after the conclusion of the program. newsletter Em Rede and the poster Em In 2012, the Company will have 11 interns. Cartaz. Sent twice a week, Em Rede is an electronic newsletter containing institutional information, updates, and reminders of day-today activities, in addition to communications from different areas of the Company. The Em Cartaz poster is sent every two weeks and brings explanatory institutional contents that are exposed in common areas of the Company. After a survey with employees, in 2011 the Company created the newsletter Em Rede Gestor, which is addressed to all personnel managers with information that should be shared with the teams. DMA-LA My first year with Redecard For 2012, our goal is to improve these vehicles, making them even more effective. Implemented in 2010, the project “My first year with Redecard” was well received by the newcomers. This initiative involves regular monitoring through surveys and interviews RH Responde (HR Answers) with the employees and their respective managers in the first, third, sixth and ninth To standardize the response to various months after the professional was hired. demands of our employees, we created the RH Responde (HR Answers), an exclusive This project aims to help the adaptation of communication channel via e-mail and new employees and assesses the efficiency telephone. The calls are classified according to of the Company’s selection processes. Based the demand type, and the service registered on the information collected, the personnel more than 5,793 contacts over the year. management area can settle difficulties, by dialoguing with the parties and adjusting The analysis of the contacts is used to functions and areas of work, when necessary. make improvements, simplify procedures and enhance the communication with the employees Sustainability Annual Report 2011 54 DMA-LA Satisfaction of employees Health and safety LA6, LA7, LA8 Every six months we carry out a satisfaction Concerned to ensure the safety of employees survey with our employees to measure the and prevent occupational diseases level of motivation and team loyalty. This and accidents, since 2010 Redecard has survey also serves to identify sensitive points implemented its own health and safety team and develop action plans to improve internal formed by specialist physicians, nurses and processes. In addition, the survey results are occupational safety technicians. reflected in the variable compensation of the executives. The adhesion to the survey carried We monitor the occurrence of occupational out in the second half of 2011 was 89%. accidents and keep programs for education, DMA-LA training, prevention and risk control of serious The satisfaction levels in the last few diseases. The entire staff is represented in the years fell mainly due to the organizational Internal Commission for Accident Prevention restructuring, but when compared to other (Cipa) and annually the Internal Week for companies in the market, they are positive. Prevention of Occupational Accidents (Sipat) With the targets and plans established based takes place, offering speeches and activities on the information collected, we expect the on the matter. Additionally, we implemented levels to rise again in 2012. the electronic time control to monitor the absenteeism rate. Focused on health and well-being, we reintroduced the program Equilíbrio – Viver Bem (Balance – Live Well), which seeks to improve quality of life among the employees. Today I will work with you The benefits offered are corporate fitness, a nutritionist at the Company’s premises, Demystifying the work environment and personal trainer to support running and increasing the closeness between parents and walking groups, quick massage services, children are some of the goals of the annual organization of sports tournaments event “Today I will work with you.” In the 2011 (volleyball, soccer, table tennis and dodge edition, around 140 children between 4 and ball), partnerships with gyms and day-off on 10 years of age spent an entire day at the the date of the employee’s birthday. Another Company, engaged in a series of supervised initiative is the Program for Personal Support activities, such as visiting the headquarters, and Guidance (Papo), which is a direct, free and participating in games, gymkhanas and confidential channel for staff support offered workshops on recycling of Redecard terminals. to all employees and their families. Children over 10 years could also work along with their parents. After the action, a survey with the parents showed that 95% evaluated the event as excellent/good and 99% approved the structure in place to receive the children. Sustainability Annual Report 2011 55 LA7 Health and safety indicators – by gender 2010 2011 Rate Women Men Women Men Injuries1 3 3 2 3 Data not Data not Occupational diseases 0 0 checked checked Total days lost2 173 156 17 99 Data not Data not Total absenteeism3 0.60% 0.51% monitored monitored Total deaths during the period 0 0 0 0 Total deaths in the commuting 0 0 0 0 LA7 , 3.5 Health and safety indicators – by gender and region4 Northeast Southeast Rates Women Men Women Men Injuries1 0 1 2 2 Occupational diseases 0 0 0 0 Total days lost2 0 80 17 19 Total absenteeism3 0 0 0.60% 0.51% Total deaths during the period 0 0 0 0 Total deaths during the commuting 0 0 0 0 1 – We used multiplication factor 200,000. 2 – We considered the civil days to calculate the rate of lost days. 3 – We considered the total number of events by gender, total business days in the month multiplied by the number of the worked hours in a day, divided by the number of absent hours justified by doctor’s note. The indicator’s scope ranges from October to December 2011. 4 – In the Southern, Northern and Midwestern Regions all rates were equal to zero. Outsourced professionals DMA-LA Most of the 5,000 outsourced professionals The outsourced employees who perform their LA7 work in the operational areas (logistics functions at Redecard premises use a different and technology) and the call center. ID badge and their volume of work hours is Monthly the Human Resources department monitored. For 2012 we plan to monitor the monitors whether the service companies statistics of medical consultations, broken are in compliance with the labor laws and down by age, and offer training to outsourced regulations in order to avoid any type of professionals. irregularity and ensure that the Company’s ethical standards are followed. Sustainability Annual Report 2011 56 Suppliers We seek to develop solid partnerships to spread sustainable management concepts in the supply chain DMA-HR Structured to centralize relationships with suppliers, the Supply Chain, Quality and Redecard Purchase Portal DMA-HR Process area is focused on increasing the synergy between Redecard and its partners. In the relationship with suppliers, a highlight Suppliers are classified according to their level was the implementation of the Redecard of criticism, competitiveness and strategic Purchase Portal, an exclusive communication relevance, and the peculiarities and demands channel for RFP, verifying orders and making of each of them are identified to create specific purchases. In case of complaints on any forms of engagement. In 2011, the Company irregularity, the portal has a link for suppliers to offered training to the Supply professionals access the complaint channel. about the products and services they trade. For the purchase and contracting of equipment, supplies and services, we analyze the technical capacity, quality and price. One of our targets for 2012 is to define criteria to Code of ethics and conduct for suppliers DMA-HR classify local suppliers and then monitor the expenditure directed to them. We have implemented the Code of Ethics and Conduct for Suppliers, whose purpose is to introduce and share our main business management guidelines. Developed jointly by the Legal, Compliance, Investor Relations and Sustainability, and Supply, Quality and Process departments, this document informs of the Ombudsman channels available, raises issues relating to ethics, information security and sustainability, in addition to encouraging our partners to adopt and spread such guidelines. All of our partners contracted as from August 2010 are bound by this document; for which reason, it is made available at Redecard Purchase Portal and on the Investor Relations website. Until December 2011, 25 suppliers equivalent to 79% of the transaction volume for the last months accepted the Code of Ethics and Conduct. Sustainability Annual Report 2011 57 HR2 and Sustainability in the purchase policy DMA-HR In addition to technical and commercial Concerning human rights matters, our most HR2 criteria, the Company started to adopt social important partners are three large suppliers and environmental guidelines in the purchase of the Human Resource area, whose long-term policy. During the process of purchasing contracts do not contain provisions on this any product or service, the Company should issue. select suppliers that offer fair trade, have sustainable policies and practices, respect the right of their employees, incorporate social and ethical concerns into their values, do not make use of child or forced labor, offer durable products without chemicals harmful to the environment, that can be recycled and/or reused or reduce the GHG emissions. By the end of 2011, no contract has been rejected for non-compliance with provisions. Sustainability Annual Report 2011 58 EC9, SO1 Civil society The Redecard Institute The only one with this format in the industry, the entity centralizes the Company’s private social investments and seeks to expand its actions in the country, aligned with the business Redecard Institute is a nonprofit association Mission created to support and systematize the Acting on entrepreneurship education, helping Company’s social actions. Integrated to to enhance the Brazilian educational capital. the sustainability strategy, the Institute reports directly to the Investor Relations and Vision Sustainability Officer. Working to increase competitiveness and efficiency of entrepreneurs in Brazil, generating Focused on entrepreneurship education, contents and making partnerships that the Institute works for the development of improve the alternatives for employment and entrepreneurs – micro and small businesses continuity of businesses in a world increasingly and social organizations – promoting social complex and selective. inclusion and volunteerism. Since the beginning of its activities in 2010, it has been improving its forms of management and Sustainable Enterprise defining structured governance guidelines for the projects. The program enables micro and small entrepreneurs to adopt sustainable business Criteria were formalized for selection of practices, and counts on the knowledge of the partnerships with NGOs that share the same Company’s SME sector to identify potential principles of the Institute, and performance participants, not only clients to whom positive indicators were created to monitor the impacts can be higher. initiatives for collection of data on the impacts caused since 2012. Another action was the In 2011, this program was developed in the entity’s inclusion in the trainee program, so cities of São Paulo, Campinas and Salvador, young professionals can participate in the and a small-sized initiative in Belo Horizonte. social projects during three months. In total, 85 entrepreneurs participated in the meetings and speeches. DMA-SO People who are participating in the projects carried out by the Redecard Institute can obtain more information in its website. In 2012, in addition to enhancing the management model, our challenge is to increase the number of actions, engaging partners already consolidated throughout Brazil and seeking new local and national partnerships. Sustainability Annual Report 2011 59 DMA-EC Aceleradora de Impacto (Propeller of Impacts) In partnership with Artemisia Negócios Sociais, R$ 50,000) to low-income young people from the program aims to qualify social businesses the country side of São Paulo. of young entrepreneurs to attract investments, in addition to strengthening their positive Our target for 2012 is to monitor social social impacts and generating profits. At the business indicators that assess investment end of 2011, ten entrepreneurs were supported attraction, revenue and income generation and by the program, acting in different segments access to products and services of quality and of the economy. An example is Banco Pérola, low-prices to people from the bottom of the which offers microfinance services (R$ 5,000 to pyramid. Business indicators based on the program Aceleradora de Impacto – Targets for 2012 Income Directed Target of growth Revenue generated Business Description Impacted People of investment Increase (%) (if / Customers attraction 2012 (%) applicable) Develops low-cost technologies AUIRE 366% 700 28% for disabled people Offers microfinance to lowIncrease of Banco Pérola 63% 150 50% income young people 44% Provides medical and dental 100%2 Clínica SIM care at affordable prices 20% 40,000 in Fortaleza (CE) Develops technology applications to assist the 100%2 Dossier Digital 25% 1,040 work of young people from classes D and E Offers technologies to assist disabled people to F123 232% 100 139% have access to education and the labor market Provides a set of educational software in the form of games 100%2 Kiduca 115% 7,000 for social and digital inclusion of students Offers video classes for students with learning disabilities and 100%2 QMágico1 100% 40,000 without access to quality education Gathers information about resources and services of Saútil1 100% 150,000 88% the Unified Health System (SUS) on a web portal Develops new products through Increase of 100%2 Solidarium an integrated design studio 114% 5,000 50% network Offers training for management 100%2 Works of micro and small companies at 100% 900 low cost 1 – Businesses without revenues in 2011. 2 – This is an estimate, since there was no investment in 2011. Sustainability Annual Report 2011 60 Social Entrepreneurship Projects of Redecard Institute in Brazil The program encourages entrepreneurship of social managers, assisting them to identify potential partners and raise funds. The program has duration of three to four months, and is given by Gesc Institute, a training department of Fundação Instituto de Administração da Universidade de São Paulo (FIA/USP). In 2011, the trainees participated as consultants of the project. For the next editions, our purpose is to encourage employees to participate as volunteers as well. After two concluded editions, the program trained 44 representatives of NGOs and cooperatives pertaining to 12 social organizations of 10 States and the Federal District, directly benefiting more than 10,000 people, including children, young people and adults. To increase the efficiency of the program, mitigate risks and have more accurate indicators, since the second year we have opted to work with one entity in each edition. The first entity chosen was Aldeias Infantis SOS Brasil, with which the Institute will monitor the impacts at the end of one year after the completion of the program. Results of 2011 Culture and entertainment • 44 managers trained • 2 social organizations participating Between October 2011 and January 2012, • 10 Brazilian states covered Redecard promoted Palco Cultural Redecard, • More than 10,000 direct beneficiaries which took music and films/documentaries to 16 Brazilian cities – Recife, João Pessoa, Salvador, Fortaleza, São Luís, Natal, Maceió, Aracaju, Vitória, Curitiba, Porto Alegre, Florianópolis, Guarulhos, Campinas, Belo Horizonte and Niterói. With a truck turned into stage, the project also counted on entrepreneurship workshops offered by the Redecard Institute. In partnership with Sebrae, specific contents were developed, according to the demands of the participants of different cities. During the four months of the project, there were 13 workshops, with the attendance of approximately 130 people. Sustainability Annual Report 2011 61 Financing of Projects In 2011, in partnership with the Marketing area, Redecard Institute recommended which Flood Victims projects should be sponsored through the Municipal Fund for Child and Adolescent In early 2011, in partnership with MasterCard, Rights (Fumcad). The partnership enabled the we developed a mechanism of donations to adoption of specific criteria for selection of victims of heavy rains in the mountainous projects, according to the lines of action of the region of the State of Rio de Janeiro. Holders Institute. of the credit card brand could donate through Redecard portal from R$ 5 to R$ 100, with direct In total, investments under Rouanet Law, debit from the checking account. The Company Sports Incentive Law and Fumcad totaled R$ gave up the corresponding percentage for 18 million, of which R$ 12.2 were intended transactions and the money collected was for cultural projects, R$ 2.8 million for sports 100% forwarded to the Social Assistance Fund projects, and R$ 3 million for donations. of the State of Rio de Janeiro. Sustainability Annual Report 2011 62 Sustainability Annual Report 2011 63 Redecard’s Social Investment in 2011 Geographical scope Investment Number of indirect Initiative Partner Benefited organization Number of direct beneficiaries Purpose of the initiative focus theme beneficiaries About 11 thousand children, young people Social 10 NGOs: nine NGOs in 11 States and the Federal Bring management knowledge to enhance the attraction of Gesc Sustainability for the and adults served by Entrepreneurship São Paulo and Aldeias District :SP, RJ, MG, BA, PR, PE, 44 Representatives of NGOs resources in the third sector, seeking the sustainability of social Institute Third Sector social organizations (two editions) Infantis SOS Brasil PB, RS, RN, AM organizations. participating in the program SenacSustainable Create awareness on entrepreneurs of micro and small businesses to SP and São Paulo, Salvador, Campinas Sustainability for small Entrepreneurship N/A 85 entrepreneurs N/A adopt sustainable practices, such as competitive advantage for their Consultoria and Belo Horizonte businesses (four editions) business. SEI 10 social business: Support the development and strengthening of business to the base AUIRE, F123, Clínica of the pyramid, by means of social investment in the program of SIM, Banco Pérola, More than 50 thousand Redecard Aceleradora de Artemísia São Paulo, Sorocaba, Curitiba, Development of Social acceleration of start-ups. Saútil.com, Quadrado people access the Institute Impacto (Propeller of Negócios Fortaleza, Rio de Janeiro and Businesses – base of the 20 entrepreneurs For 2012, it is estimated that businesses supported by the program Mágico, Cidade services of supported Impacts) Sociais Salvador pyramid will have: at least 20% of revenue increase; at least 28% of growth in Educação, Works, social businesses attracting investment; at least 44% of increase in revenue generated Dossier Digital and from their clients (applicable only to Banco Pérola and Solidarium). Solidarium 13 cities in Brazil: Natal, Recife, João Pessoa, Aracaju, Maceió, Disseminate contents related to financial management, sales, Entrepreneurship National São Luiz, Vitória, Curitiba, Development of micro N/A 130 entrepreneurs N/A organization of collective actions for the strengthening of micro Workshops Sebrae Porto Alegre, Florianópolis, and small businesses business, among other topics. Guarulhos, Belo Horizonte, Niterói 2nd National Forum Conexxões Promotion of the Support spaces for discussion of management of changes and on Sustainability in Educação N/A Brasília Corporate Sustainability 100 entrepreneurs N/A corporate sustainability strategies. Practice Empresarial topic Sustainability Annual Report 2011 64 Sustainability Annual Report 2011 65 Geographical scope Investment Number of indirect Initiative Partner Benefited organization Number of direct beneficiaries Purpose of the initiative focus theme beneficiaries Juvenile Education and Professional Add professional values from a methodological technicalInitiation to Juvenile professional education focused on administrative, logistic, commerce Administrative, FUMCAD Alfasol São Paulo 1,000 young people N/A entrepreneurship and retail areas, with an aim at fostering the professional education Logistical, Commerce of young people. and Retail Occupations Promoting social inclusion and the role of young people in situation Center of Design and FUMCAD Arrastão Project São Paulo Youth entrepreneurship 60 young people N/A of vulnerability through social, professional and entrepreneurial Fashion training. A Distinguished Family strengthening Provisionally accept children and adolescents, ensuring their integral Look (Um Olhar FUMCAD Aldeias Infantis São Bernardo do Campo (SP) and reception of 66 children and young people N/A development, which involves education, health, nutrition, recreation, Diferenciado) children sports, culture and professional development. Casa LAR: Place of Family strengthening Develop and ensure the strengthening of affection ties with the Affection, Respect and FUMCAD Aldeias Infantis Caicó (RN) and reception of 108 children and young people N/A family, and foster the participation and role of children and young Development children people. Provide an area of integration between the (artistic, linguistic, Cultural Workshops – scientific, ethical, physical) fields of knowledge by means of Multiple Languages in FUMCAD Pró-Saber SP São Paulo Incentive to culture 100 children from 6 to 10 years N/A Incentivized workshops, based on experiences at school, in the family and in the Service Learning Investment community. All 7000 students of twenty centers serviced by GSM, 28,000 people 160 disabled children and adolescents, Continuously provide, during hours other than school time, initiation Santa Marcelina involved with children Guri Project FUMCAD Campos do Jordão Incentive to culture 160 families of these children and and theory music courses, choir and string, woodwinds, wind and Institute and adolescents more than 300 employees of GSM percussion instrument courses. enrolled in the Program Guri Santa Marcelina, in the city of São Paulo. Redecard’s participation will help to complete the 1st phase of Expansion of GRAAC, with the Inauguration and With the assignment of a new land use by the Municipal Support for children operation of the Annex I, estimated GRAACC FUMCAD GRAACC São Paulo N/A Government of São Paulo, GRAACC planns the construction of a new with cancer for August 2012. This extension will hospital complex. enable a significant increase in the services currently offered by GRAACC. In 2011, 104,933 children were served. Support for disabled 1,498,485 services in 2011, Promote prevention, habilitation and rehabilitation of people with Teleton FUMCAD AACD São Paulo children and in 13 rehabilitation centers N/A disabilities, especially children, adolescents and young people, adolescents throughout Brazil. fostering social integration. Sustainability Annual Report 2011 66 Investors We seek to maintain an active management of our shareholding base, focused on long-term investors, who care about the sustainability of the company In 2011 our Company’s share were the Investors’ Day, which gathered investors 18th most liquid at the São Paulo Stock and the Company’s Executive Board in our Exchange (BM&FBovespa). With an aim at headquarters, in Barueri. In the event, which being transparent and attracting capital had high level of adhesion, we shared our from investors with long-term vision, while action strategies and introduced the new CEO maintaining the liquidity of shares on the and the new Executive Officers who answered market, we regularly communicate our questions from the shareholders. initiatives to the public. Specifically for the international market, we Currently, 23 financial institutions monitor the achieved the target of performing the Non Company’s performance and produce reports Deal Roadshow (NDR) with visits to socially with investment recommendations to their responsible investment funds in Europe. clients. The goal of the meeting was to report our sustainability practices to attract more investors with this profile. Relationship Actions Consolidated on the calendar, the fifth In order to ensure the quality and transparency consecutive annual public meeting with in the relationship with the capital market, we investors and analysts, in partnership with quarterly assess the investor perception on the Association of Analysts and Investment our activities and the service provided. Over Professionals of the Capital Markets of São the year, we promoted and participated in Paulo (Apimec-SP) was also held, at our many events and meetings to strengthen the administrative headquarters. relationship with such stakeholders. In addition, in 2011 we participated in 34 events After the disclosure of the third quarter and carried out 87 meetings and 293 calls with results, in October, we organized the first investors. Sustainability Annual Report 2011 67 Market Indicators As of December 31, 2011, Redecard’s shares were quoted at R$ 29.19, which indicated an approximate market value of R$ 19.6 billion. During the year, the appreciation was 38.7%, the second largest among the companies in Ibovespa (the São Paulo Stock Exchange Index). As for Ibovespa itself, it depreciated by 18.1%. Market Indicators 2009 2010 2011 Price at the end of the period (R$) 29.00 21.05 29.19 Maximum (R$) 32.40 33.70 30.87 Average (R$) 27.07 26.12 24.50 Minimum (R$) 22.50 20.31 18.48 Average daily volume 77.3 52.1 60.3 (R$ thousandlion) Number of shares 672,970.7 672,970.7 672,970.7 (thousand shares) Earnings per share 2.07 2.08 2.09 Market capitalization (R$ billion) 19.5 14.2 19.6 Prices RDCD3 and Ibovespa (as of January 2nd, 2009 = 100) between January 2009 and December 2011 300 Regulation – April 2009 68.588 69.304 56.754 250 200 Market opening – July 2010 150 Management change – April 2011 100 R$29 R$29 R$26 R$25 50 R$23 R$21 0 02/01/09 02/03/09 02/05/09 02/07/09 02/09/09 02/11/09 02/01/10 02/03/10 02/05/10 02/07/10 02/09/10 02/11/10 02/01/11 02/03/11 02/05/11 02/07/11 02/09/11 02/11/11 29/12/11 IBOV RDCD Sustainability Annual Report 2011 68 4.13 Professional associations Redecard acknowledges the important role in the industry played by professional entities and associations, and actively participates in many Brazilian Association of Credit Card and Service Companies (Abecs) Relationship SO5 and DMA-SO The CEO of Redecard is also the president of the association. The Company’s Products with associations and SME Officer holds the position of Communications Officer at the association. Redecard seeks to actively participate in discussions of the industry by means of Brazilian Institute of Investors’ Relations the Brazilian Association of Credit Card and (Ibri) Service Companies (Abecs). Some of the topics The Investor’s Relations and Sustainability discussed by the entity are the opening of the Officer is member of the Sustainability affiliation activities; creation of a national debit Committee of that institution. card brand; financial clearing and settlement activity; and transparency in the exchange Brazilian Federation of Banks (Febraban) rates applied by the brands. Redecard’s CEO represents the Card Industry in the entity. At the end of 2011, the 2010 Statistical Addendum on the Payment Card industry was Brazilian Association of Publicly-Traded published, prepared jointly by the Central Bank Companies (Abrasca) of Brazil, the Secretariat of Economic Affairs Redecard is a member and adopted in August of the Ministry of Finance and the Secretariat 2011 Abrasca’s Code of Self-Regulation and of Economic Law of the Ministry of Justice. Good Practices of publicly-traded companies. The report highlights the need to expand the partnership of issuers and acquirers with Brazilian brands to give more efficiency to the domestic market. We are in favor of the opening of the merchant acquiring market. Free competition and the consequent reductions in the average discount rates after the market opening in July 2010 resulted in reduced costs for merchants, contributing to the development and formalization of the Brazilian economy. Sustainability Annual Report 2011 69 Eco-efficiency DMA-EN Redecard improved its level of control over consumption of water, electricity, fuel and waste generation to adopt responsible practices based on the principle of the three R’s Reduce, Reuse, Recycle. The initiatives are part of our sustainability strategy managed by the Sustainability Commission and Committee. The main environmental impacts concern consumption of fuel by logistics activities for transportation of materials and staff, and the electricity used in technology activities. EC2 and Emissions Inventory DMA-EN We are committed to annually monitoring GHG emissions In 2010 the Company conducted its first The results show that in 2011 direct emissions, greenhouse gas inventory, based on the concerning operations over which we have methodology of the GHG Protocol and the control and are called scope 1, remained stable. Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Changes The largest source of direct emissions concerns (IPCC 2006). the transport of company’s employees to services, totaling 369.9 tCO2e, against 375.9 The inventory is an important practice for tCO2e in 2010. evaluating our environmental impact and a way to identify business opportunities from On the other hand, indirect emissions from the reduction of emissions, and manage generation of purchased electricity, called regulatory risk in medium term, such as those scope 2, decreased substantially due to the related to the National Policy on Climate drop in the factor of emission of national Changes. This is the reason why we made grid, that is, the greater participation of the commitment to carry out an annual hydroelectric power plants in the Brazilian assessment of emissions. energy matrix in 2011. Electricity consumption increased when Results compared to 2010, particularly regarding the Orbitall Data Centers and the headquarters The 2011 emissions inventory was completed in Barueri, in addition to the inclusion of Tivit in February 2012. It was prepared with the Data Center consumption in the inventory. assistance of a specialized firm, and, for the The electricity consumption in the São Paulo first time, the inventory was submitted to office decreased due to the relocation of staff verification by an independent external third to Barueri. However, the proportion of the party. electricity consumption increase in Barueri Sustainability Annual Report 2011 70 was greater than the decrease in São Paulo’s Indirect emissions relating to scope 3, which office. Redecard’s total electricity consumption correspond to other emissions over which increased from 8079 MWh, in 2010, to 10123 we do not have operational control, concern MWh in 2011. the logistics for distribution of materials (by road and air), airline travel due to service for the company, among others. Compared to the previous period, these emissions increased from 2,034.5 tCO2e to 5,332.0 tCO2e. EN16, EN17 Direct and Indirect GHG Emissions, by weight Greenhouse gas emissions tons of CO2 equivalents Sources of direct emissions (Scope 1) 2010 2011 Generation of electricity, heat or steam 6.8 5.5 Transport of materials, products and wastes 397.8 369.9 Fugitive emissions 0.4 0.5 Sources of indirect emissions (Scope 2) Generation of purchased electricity, heat or steam 414.3 298.2 Indirect emissions (Scope 3) Transport of employees -2 1,572.8 Business travels 628.0 803.7 Terrestrial Distribution Logistics 1 610.6 961.3 Air Distribution Logistics 1 448.1 1,740.5 Lease of vehicles, emissions under responsibility of the condominium 347.7 253.6 where the offices are located, and waste management Total 2,853.7 6,006.0 1 The 2011 emissions arising from logistics include POS terminals transportation from the manufacturer to Redecard, which contributes to the increase in emissions over the years. 2 Data not available because only air transportation (business travel) was considered in 2010. Main emission generator sources distributed by air in 2011 – from 351.1 to 626.4 tons – and the incorporation of emissions The main emission sources relate to the of some logistics suppliers that were not distribution of products (terminals and coils) reported in the previous inventory. Other and the commuting of employees. We recorded aspects which contributed to the discrepancy an increase in the number of flights taken by were the supplier migration process and the staff to work in 2011, which contributed to raise improvement in standards of collection of around 30% the volume of CO2e emissions. information from one of the main suppliers. 6,672 travels occurred during the year, compared to 5,602 in 2010. With an aim at minimizing transportation emissions, we encourage the use of chartered The emissions concerning logistics activities buses (upon reimbursement) for the were higher when compared to those of commuting of employees to the headquarters, the previous year. The main factors were in Barueri, and maintain an intranet forum to the increase in the volume of terminals promote the system of rides. In the logistics Significant impacts of emissions by transport (tCO2e)2 Transport 2010 2011 EN29 Distribution logistics 1 1,058.7 2,701.8 Transport of employees -3 2,376.5 1 – Includes land and air transport. 2 – Includes business travels. 3 – Data not available because only air transportation (business travel) was considered in 2010. Sustainability Annual Report 2011 71 area, the reorganization of routes travelled by Compensation actions EN18 and suppliers at the end of 2011 optimized routes, DMA-EN reducing fuel consumption. Emissions generated from the commuting of guests of annual public meetings held with investors, analysts and members of Intensity of Emissions the Association of Analysts and Investment Professionals of the Capital Market of São Paulo The scope 1 emissions by employee increased (Apimec) were compensated by planting native mainly due to the decrease in the company’s trees in the regions of the Atlantic Forest. In staff. The same emissions by distributed 2011, the 792 kg of GHG emitted resulted in the terminal remained constant on 0.35 tCO2 e/ planting of eight trees. Like in 2010, in 2011 the thousand POS. In turn, in Scope 3, there was event received the Carbon Free seal. a significant increase compared to 2010, mainly due to the inclusion of emissions from As an engagement action in the 2011 Congress employee commuting from their homes to of Electronic Payment Means (CMEP), there was work and to an improvement in the gathering a CO2 calculator at our stand, so visitors could of certain information. estimate the emissions resulting from the commuting to the congress. After the event, Based on the second edition of the inventory, we planted 54 trees, 31 to compensate the CO2 we started to develop action plans to make emissions resulting from the stand assembling, operations more efficient and avoid that and 23 to compensate the emission of more the expansion cause a proportional increase than 1,800 kg of CO2 resulting from the in emissions. One of them is the revision participants’ commuting. of the logistic model, started in 2011, to be implemented in 2012. For the coming years, DMA-EN new initiatives, and mitigation and reduction goals, are under evaluation. Intensity of Emissions tCO2e/103 distribution tCO2e/employee tCO2e/m2 office terminals 2010 2011 2010 2011 2010 2011 Scope 1 0.28 0.36 0.35 0.35 0.03 0.03 Scope 2 0.28 0.28 0.36 0.28 0.03 0.02 Scope 3 1.40 5.06 1.78 5.00 0.16 0.40 Sustainability Annual Report 2011 72 Reducing Adoption of technologies for reducing energy and paper consumption is part of the Company’s environmental strategy EN3, EN4 Energy From 2010 to 2011, the electricity consumed The building where our administrative head by the Company changed from 7,558.00 office is located adopts a series of solutions to GJ to 11,539.14 GJ. Because it is provided by maintain the low consumption of energy. Built a concessionaire, we cannot measure the based on concepts of sustainable buildings, percentages arising from renewable and nonit has elevators with a pre-call system which renewable sources – it is worth noting that avoids electricity wasting and extends the the Brazilian electric matrix is predominantly useful life of the equipment, high performance composed of hydroelectric sources. As for diesel lamps, combat system of heat from façades oil, used when there is interruption of power and carpet with recycling process and cool supply on part of the concessionaire, it decreased carpet system (neutral climate process). by 25% – from 1,812.03 GJ to 1,360.28 GJ. Green IT The Company’s data center follows the management. In 2011, the replacement of principles of Green Information Technology equipment, such as servers and network (Green IT) and respects the energy efficiency elements, increased processing power and standards, as required by the Payment Card generated an economy of 338.6 GJ of energy Industry Data Security Standard (PCI DSS). The compared to January 2011 – when the specific operations are performed by two suppliers, consumption of suppliers has not been and the practices adopted aim to reduce monitored. heat generation and the use of refrigeration and improve air circulation (cold and hot For 2012, we intend to expand the concept of air corridors). sustainability among employees, mainly in the area of technology, and keep equipment DMA-EN Our policy for purchase of equipment follows revision and control, analyzing its useful life, the Green IT principles, and priority is given cost and power consumption. to machines that have energy efficiency certificates related to environmental Sustainability Annual Report 2011 73 EN5, EN6, EN7 Electronic Statement Sale Receipt DMA-EN and DMA-EN As a way to engage the entire chain, clients The new terminals, which will be delivered to are encouraged to use electronic account merchants in 2012, will have an application statements, available in online version, which that allows the final consumers not having his/ brings all information about the transactions her sale receipt printed on the credit function recorded at the merchant. To those who still – currently, not to print option is available for prefer to receive printed statement, a fee is debit transactions only. With this change, we charged. From 2010 to 2011, the adherence to estimate a 20% reduction in consumption of electronic format increased from 83% to 87%. paper for receipts. A way to increase the number of sale receipts per coil at the terminals upon the optimization of the printing space is also under study. Currently, a coil is able to emit 90 receipts in average. EN26 Recycling The Company’s main source of waste; all obsolete terminals are recycled EN26 Recycling of terminals Established in 2008, our terminal recycling parts, such as printed circuits and batteries, practice is unique in the electronic payment go to the United States and Belgium, where industry and adheres to all security and specialized companies perform the allocation of fraud risk management standards. Whenever hazardous materials. Items such as copper, silver, a problem is identified in a terminal, it is tin and gold are insulated and then recycled. immediately taken in for maintenance. If there is no solution, it is disabled and goes for In 2011, of 1.066 million terminals installed, recycling, when it is sent to one of the two about 90% have been recovered, and 88,712 distribution centers of the Company – in the have been sent for recycling. city of Sumaré (SP) and São Paulo (SP) – and taken by a partner company, which is certified by ISO 9001/2008 and approved by the risk management area. Useful life of terminals in 2011 (million units) EN27 In the recycling process, Redecard visual Recycled terminals 0.089 identities are deleted, the software is cleaned, Reused terminals 0.983 and all components (printed circuits, batteries, Installed terminals 1.066 wires, metal parts, plastic and cables) are Percentage of recovered/installed terminals 92% recycled. The remaining part is destroyed. Some Sustainability Annual Report 2011 74 Increase in the useful life Waste Sorting EN22 of terminals In partnership with a specialized company, To increase the useful life of the terminals we implemented in our head office a waste which, after a three-year cycle, still are in sorting system to give the correct destination conditions of use, we have developed a project for different types of waste. In 2011, we had that adds additional functionality to the a reduction in material consumption and, equipment. The terminals are resold at a value therefore, a decrease of approximately 34% in well below the market price to institutions such the amount of waste sent for recycling, from as hospitals and medical clinics or businesses 25.28 tons in 2010, to 16.77 tons in 2011. with loyalty programs which, by reading their cards, identify users of health plans or consult the balance of accumulated points. Recycling of computers and servers Equipment is expected to remain in operation All large computers and servers are also for another two years, until being sent for the forwarded for recycling, as happened with 80 recycling process. servers replaced by two new equipment in 2011. Waste disposal by type EN22 Non-hazardous waste (tons) 2009 2010 2011 Waste sorting (administrative buildings) 25.28 16.77 Paper – Barueri 9.27 10.58 Plastic – Barueri 0.90 0.62 Metal – Barueri 0.08 0.02 Glass – Barueri 0.04 0.00 Paper – São Paulo 11.70 4.01 Cardboard – São Paulo 3.19 1.54 Recycling of terminals 297.80 21.00 76.92 Cardboard 20.70 3.10 12.60 Iron 77.60 0.50 5.00 Plastic 92.40 6.90 33.80 Wires 56.60 8.20 11.70 Electronic components 50.50 1.50 13.90 Other 0.00 0.80 0.00 Total 297.80 46.28 93.07 Hazardous waste (tons) 2009 2010 2011 Batteries (hazardous materials) ND ND 1.7 Sustainability Annual Report 2011 75 Reusing Initiatives of water reuse and adoption of 100% certified papers are embedded in the Company’s administrative practices EN8, EN9, Water Paper DMA-EN EN25, EN26 All water consumed by Redecard comes from To keep the responsible consumption of paper, supply companies. The disposal is made we only use paper certified by the Brazilian FSC through sewerage networks, and the Company (Forest Standarship Council), and encourage is not responsible for any water source impact. employees to print what is absolutely To avoid waste, our head office has a system necessary. In 2011, 54.33 tons of paper were for reuse of water in toilet bowls and gardens. printed, a reduction of 17.34% in the volume The consumption of recycled water was compared to the previous year; and the goal for 12,875.50 m3 representing 78.64% of the total 2012 is to reduce the consumption by 7%. water consumed. Thanks to this initiative, in 2011, even with the increase in the office area, there was a reduction of approximately 38,42%, changing from 5.679,86 m3 in 2010 to 3.497,57 m3 in 2011. Materials from sustainable management1 EN2 2009 2010 2011 Used materials resulting from Total Total Total recycling (t) Total % % Total Area % Area Audit Audit Printer paper (t) 14.97 100 65.73 16.20 100 54.33 13.39 100 Number of 3,240,000 3,505,691 3,505,691 2,897,759 2,897,759 pages consumed 1 – The calculation of number of pages consumed in 2009 was based on the average monthly consumption, while in 2010 and 2011, the number corresponds to the effective monthly consumption. Sustainability Annual Report 2011 76 2.10, 1.1 Awards and Recognitions Você S/A Award – The Best Companies to Start Corporate Sustainability Index – ISE – a Career BM&FBovespa We have achieved the fifth place overall in Also for the third time we are the only company the first edition of the “Você S/A – The Best of the electronic payment industry selected to Companies to Start a Career” award, which is integrate the Corporate Sustainability Index (ISE), exclusively focused on young professionals (20 of BM&FBovespa. to 28 years). The survey assesses the working environment, and personnel management The index evaluates companies committed to practices and policies directed to professionals social and environmental responsibility and in early career. Among the companies in the good corporate governance practices. Valid until financial services industry, we achieved the December 31, 2012, the new portfolio brings first position. together 51 shares of 38 companies. Itaúsa Investimentos and Itaú Unibanco Holding, Redecard’s controlling shareholder, are also Guia Você S/A Exame – The 150 Best Brazilian included in the index. Companies to Work For For the tenth time, we integrate the ranking of Carbon Efficient Index (ICO2) – BM&FBovespa and the 150 Best Brazilian Companies to Work For, BNDES from Guia Você S/A Exame magazine. We were mentioned for the second consecutive year as one We remained in the portfolio of the Carbon of the companies which most invest in the staff. Efficient Index (ICO2). Created in 2010 by the BM&FBovespa and the National Bank for Among the aspects currently evaluated, the Economic and Social Development (BNDES), the employees’ adhesion to the new private index is made up of shares of companies with pension plan and the work of management transparent practices in relation to Greenhouse and development of leaderships were Gases (GHG) emissions. highlights, with initiatives such as “Academy of Leaders” and “360˚Evaluation” programs. M&E LatinFinance Sustainability Stars Index Brazil Dow Jones Sustainability Index – DJSI – NYSE We started to be part of the first edition of the M&E LatinFinance Sustainability Stars Index, We are – for the third consecutive year the only which quantifies management and sustainability company in the electronic payment industry processes under risk, strategy, performance and to be included in the Dow Jones Sustainability compliance apsects. Index World (2011/2012) of the New York Stock Exchange. The index assess items related to management of companies, corporate IR Magazine Awards governance, and social and environmental responsibility and is comprised by 342 For the first time, we were nominated for organizations from 30 countries, of which only the award “Best Investor Relations by a Latin eight are Brazilian. Itaúsa Investimentos and American Company in the US Market”, of the Itaú Unibanco Holding, Redecard’s controlling IR Magazine’s US Awards 2012, one of the most shareholder, are also included in the index. internationally recognized awards in Investor Relations (IR). In this category, which recognizes the role of the Investor Relations area of Latin American companies in the US capital markets, we competed with three other Brazilian companies, in a universe of more than 1,000 publicly-traded companies in Latin America. Sustainability Annual Report 2011 77 3.1, 3.2, 3.3, 3.4, 3.5, 3.6, 3.7, 3.8, 3.9, About the report 3.10, 3.11, 3.13 We are pleased to present, for the third in the scope of the report, which covers the consecutive year, the Sustainability Annual activities of Redecard S.A. throughout the Report of Redecard, with information Brazilian territory and the outsourced call regarding economic, social and environmental center, logistics and information technology performance. Published on an Annual basis, the (IT) operations. report addresses the activities performed from January to December 2011. One of our bases for the construction of the content was the process of elaborating The document was prepared in accordance the relevance matrix, which resulted in ten with the methodology of the Global Reporting significant themes and guided the selection of Initiative (GRI), this time based on Guidelines the indicators to be reported. G3.1, which require more quality and details in collecting information. With 57 indicators The full content of the report is available answered, checked by the internal audit online, on our investor relations website and GRI organization, we remained under (www.redecard.com.br/ir). The format allows application level B. access by different publics, with versions focused on clients, employees, suppliers and Intended to improving the structure of the partners, and investors. Redecard’s website also Report, enhancing ability to respond to the provides the financial statements, prepared demands of the main stakeholders and in accordance with the International Financial therefore implementing the criteria adopted Reporting Standards (IFRS). As in 2010’s edition, in a more adequate manner, Redecard a summary report was developed, focused underwent an internal audit simultaneously on Redecard’s employees, as well as audio to the beginning of the reporting process. This podcasts, addressing highlights of reporting. initiative resulted in a risk analysis assessment, The 2011’s edition is also accompanied by an recommendations, and action plans for iPad version, addressed to investors. the Company’s Sustainability Report to be improved according to GRI standards 3.1 , and Questions, comments or suggestions about best fit into the principles established by the the Sustainability Annual Report should AA1000 standard. be directed to the Investor Relations and Sustainability department, by e-mail: Financial data and CO2 Emissions Inventory sustentabilidade@redecard.com.br, or by were review by a specialized audit firm. For phone (55 11) 2121-1004. the assessment of data, there has been no significant change in relation to the previous document, covering 2010 and published in May 2011. In addition, there was no change Sustainability Annual Report 2011 78 3.12 GRI table of contents Redecard’s 2011 Sustainability Annual Report complies with the guidelines for sustainability reports of the Global Reporting Initiatives (GRI) for application level B, and follows the principles of the Global Compact Reason for Global Indicator Description Reported Remarks Omission Compact Profile 1. Strategy and Analysis 1.1 Message from the CEO 2-5 and 76 – – 1.2 Description of key impacts, risks and opportunities 2-5 and 22 – – 2. Organizational profile 2.1 Name of the organization 7 – – 2.2 Primary brands, products, and/or services 7 and 8 – – 2.3 Operational structure of the organization 7 – – 2.4 Location of organization's headquarters 7 – – Countries where the organization operates and where its main 2.5 7 – – operations are located 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form 7 – – 2.7 Markets served 7 – – 7, 14, 33 2.8 Scale of the reporting organization – – and 35 4, 24 2.9 Significant changes during the reporting period – – and 28 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period 76 – – 3. Report Parameters 3.1 Reporting period for information provided 77 – – 3.2 Date of most recent previous report 77 – – 3.3 Reporting cycle 77 – – 3.4 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents 77 – – 3.5 Process for defining report content 41 and 77 – – 3.6 Boundary of the report 77 – – Statement on any specific limitations on the scope or boundary of the 3.7 77 – – report 3.8 Basis for reporting 77 – – 48, 55 and 3.9 Data measurement techniques and the bases of calculation – – 77 Explanation of the effect of any re-statement of information provided 3.10 77 – – in earlier reports Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the scope, 3.11 77 – – boundary, or measurement methods applied in the report 3.12 Table identifying the Standard Disclosures in the report 78 – – Policy and current practice concerning the search for external 3.13 77 – – verification for the report Sustainability Annual Report 2011 79 Reason for Global Indicator Description Reported Remarks Omission Compact 4. Governance, Commitments, and Engagement Governance structure of the organization, including 4.1 21, 25 and 26 – – committees of the highest governance body 4.2 Chair of the highest governance body 25 – – Independent or non-executive members of the highest 4.3 25 and 26 – – governance body Redecard does not have formal mechanisms for employees Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to provide and minority 4.4 – – recommendations shareholders to make recommendations to the highest governance body. Relation between compensation and the organization's 4.5 performance (including social and environmental 24 – – performance) 4.6 Processes to ensure conflicts of interest are avoided 25 – – Qualifications of the members of the highest governance 4.7 25 – – body 4.8 Mission and values, codes of conduct, and relevant principles 12 and 28 – – 27, 30 and 31 Assessment occurs on a quarterly basis, in accordance with the frequency of the meetings of Redecard Sustainability Committee, which Responsibilities for implementing economic, environmental, is composed of 4.9 – – and social policies an Independent Member of the Board of Directors, the Chief Executive Officer, the Chief Financial Officer and the Investor Relations and Sustainability Officer. Processes for evaluating the highest governance body's own 4.10 25 – – performance_ Explanation of whether and how the precautionary approach 4.11 32 – – is applied 4.12 Externally developed charters, principles, or other initiatives 23 – – Memberships in associations and/or national/international 4.13 68 – – organizations 4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization 40 and 41 – – Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with 4.15 40 and 41 – – whom to engage 4.16 Approaches to stakeholder engagement 41 – – Key topics and concerns that have been raised through 4.17 41 – – stakeholder engagement Partial Completed Sustainability Annual Report 2011 80 Performance Indicators Reason for Global Indicator Description Reported Remarkst Omission Compact Economic Performance Indicators Economic performance (11, 13, 15, 16, 20, 21, 22, 23, Disclosure on Management Approach 27 and 36); Market presence (20, 21, 22, 23, 27 and (DMA-EC) 45); and Indirect economic impacts (20, 21, 22, 23, 27 and 59). Economic performance 38 In 2011 the investments in the community Direct economic value generated EC1 accounted for 0.69% of the value added – – and distributed distributed, and the direct economic value generated was R$ 373,811 thousand. 69 Financial implications and other Redecard has not made quantitative estimates risks and opportunities for the EC2 of the financial effects caused by the climate – 7 organization's activities due to changes, and has not developed new specific climate change technologies focused on these changes. Coverage of the organization’s EC3 51 – – defined benefit plan obligations Market presence 45 Range of ratios of the lowest wage For Redecard, significant operational units are EC5 compared to the local minimum – 1 those that have employees physically allocated age, per gender thereon. Despite not having any specific policy or practice in place for local suppliers, its base of active suppliers Policy, practices, and proportion of includes local companies that provide logistics EC6 – – spending on locally-based suppliers and commercial profile services in various regions of the country, boosting the economy of these locations. Most of the new hirings occurred in the Southeast Region, which concentrates our core operations, although there are no policies for hiring employees EC7 Local hiring of employees – 6 from the local community which impedes monitoring the percentage of senior management members from the local community. Indirect economic impacts Description of significant indirect EC9 58 – – economic impacts Environmental Performance Indicators Materials (20, 21, 22, 23, 27 and 74); Energy (20, 21, 22, 23, 27, 69 and 72); Water (20, 21, 22, 23, 27 and 69); Biodiversity (non-material); Emissions, Effluents and Disclosure on Management wastes (20, 21, 22, 23, 27, 69 and 71); Produtos and Approach (DMA-EN) Services (20, 21, 22, 23, 27, 71 and 73); Compliance (20, 21, 22, 23, and 27); Transport (20, 21, 22, 23, 27 and 71); and General (20, 21, 22, 23, and 27). Materials Percentage of recycled materials EN2 75 – 8 and 9 used Energy Direct energy consumption by EN3 72 – 8 primary energy source Partial Completed Sustainability Annual Report 2011 81 Reason for Global Indicator Description Reported Remarkst Omission Compact Indirect energy consumption by EN4 72 – 8 and 9 primary energy source Energy saved due to conservation EN5 72 and 73 – 8 and efficiency improvements Initiatives to provide energyEN6 efficient or renewable energy 72 and 73 – – based products and services Initiatives to reduce indirect EN7 energy consumption and 72 and 73 – – reductions achieved. Water EN8 Total water withdrawal by source 75 – 8 and 9 Hydro sources significantly EN9 75 – 8 affected by withdrawal of water Percentage and total volume of EN10 75 – 8 recycled and reused water Emissions, Effluents and Waste Total direct and indirect GHG EN16 70 – 8 emissions Other relevant indirect GHG EN17 70 – 8 emissions Initiatives to reduce greenhouse EN18 gas emissions and reductions 71 – 7, 8 and 9 achieved 74 Total weight of waste by type and All materials reported herein are intended for EN 22 – 8 disposal method recycling, therefore there are no significant amounts of waste sent to other destinations. Identity, size, protected status, and EN25 biodiversity value of water bodies 75 – – and related habitats Products and Services Initiatives to mitigate EN26 75 – 7, 8 and 9 environmental impacts Percentage of products sold and EN27 reclaimed packaging materials, by 73 – 8 and 9 category Compliance Amount of fines and total number There were no fines or penalties for failure EN28 of penalties resulting from nonto comply with the environmental laws and – 8 compliance with environmental laws regulations. Transportation Transport-related environmental EN29 70 – 8 impacts of products and workers Geral About R$ 60 thousand were invested in environmental management, intended for hiring consultancy and data collection service for the completion of the GHG emissions Total environmental protection inventory. Expenses on the disposal of waste and EN30 – 7, 8 and 9 expenses and investments maintenance of generators are the responsibility of the administration of the condominium where the Company’s headquarters is located and are not accounted for. No other environmental costs or investments were incurred or made. Partial Completed Sustainability Annual Report 2011 82 Reason for Global Indicator Description Reported Remarkst Omission Compact Performance Indicators – Labor Practices and Decent Work Employment (22, 23, 27, 45 and 55); Labor/ management relations (22, 23, 27 and 54); Occupational health and safety (22, 23, 27, 54 and Disclosure on Management 55); Training and education (22, 23, 27, 50, 51 and Approach (DMA-LA) 53); Diversity and equal opportunity (22, 23, 27 and 45); and No compensation discrimination between men and women (22, 23, 27 and 45). Employment Total workforce by employment LA1 type, employment contract, and 46 – – region Total number, employee new hire LA2 and job turnover rates by age, 45, 48 and 49 – 6 gender, and region Comparison between benefits provided to full-time and Benefits are granted to employees of both LA3 temporary or part-time offices of Redecard. The company does not have – – employees, by significant temporary employees. operational units Labor/management relations Percentage of employees LA4 covered by collective bargaining 45 – 1, 2 and 3 agreements Description of notices (terms and LA5 45 – – procedures) Occupational health and safety Percentage of total workforce LA6 represented in formal health and 54 – 1, 2 and 3 safety committees Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and LA7 absenteeism, and number of 54 and 55 – 1 work-related fatalities by region and gender Education, risk prevention and LA8 54 – 1 control programs Training and education Average hours of training per year, LA10 52 – 6 gender and type of position Programs for skills management LA11 and lifelong learning that support 51 and 52 – – the continued employability Percentage of employees subject LA12 to performance evaluation, by 50 – – gender Diversity and equal opportunity Composition of the executive board and board of directors and 47 LA13 – 1 and 3 breakdown according to groups and gender Partial Completed Sustainability Annual Report 2011 83 Reason for Global Indicator Description Reported Remarkst Omission Compact No compensation discrimination between men and women Ratio of base salary and compensation between women LA14 and men by category of function 48 – 1, 2 and 3 and by important operational units Human rights Procurement process (56, 57); Non-discrimination (30); Freedom of association (non-material); Child Disclosure on Management labor (23, 30 and 56); Forced or slave labor (23, 30 Approach (DMA-HR) and 56); Security practices (30); Indigenous Rights (non-material); Land settlement (non-material); and Remediation (non-material). Procurement Process 57 The company’s supply agreements contain human rights (child and slave labor) provisions. No Suppliers and contractors that agreement with large suppliers (currently three, HR2 have undergone screening on as described on page 57) contains this type of – 1, 2, 3 and 4 human rights provisions, since they have been executed before the implementation of this practice. Therefore, the number of material agreements providing for human rights provisions is zero. 30 Policies for evaluation and The Code of Ethics e-learning addresses human HR3 treatment of human rights rights issues. The average number of training – – performance hours on this issue was 602 and 64% of the employees took the e-learning course. Non-discrimination Total number of incidents of HR4 31 – 1, 2 and 3 discrimination and actions taken Child labor Measures taken to contribute to HR6 30 – 1, 2 and 3 the elimination of child labor Forced and Slave Labor 30 Measures taken to contribute Redecard has only two employees for the Asset HR7 to the elimination of forced or – 1, 2 and 3 Security Area. Therefore, 100% of them were compulsory labor trained. Security practices Training policies concerning HR8 30 – – human rights aspects for security Society Local community (20, 21, 22, 58); Corruption (20, 21, Disclosure on Management 22, 27, 30, 31, 32); Public policies (20, 21, 22, 30 and Approach (DMA-SO) 68); Unfair competition (11, 20, 21, 22); Compliance (20, 21, 22, 27); Local Community Percentage of operations with SO1 local community involvement and 58 – 10 impact assessments Partial Completed Sustainability Annual Report 2011 84 Reason for Global Indicator Description Reported Remarkst Omission Compact Corruption Business units analyzed for risks SO2 32 – 10 related to corruption 30 Percentage of employees trained In 2011, 100% of management employees and SO3 for organization's anti-corruption – 10 98.2% of non-management employees were policies and procedures trained. Actions taken in response to SO4 31 – 10 incidents of corruption Public Policies SO5 Positions as to public policies 68 – 10 Policies of financial contributions SO6 to political parties, politicians or 30 – – institutions Anti-competitive behavior In 2011, Redecard did not register any case of non-compliance with the laws and regulations, Number of legal actions for unfair SO7 and also did not suffer administrative or judicial – – competition sanctions resulting in fines with significant monetary value. Public policies Compliance There is an administrative process in course at the Secretariat of Economic Law (SDE), filed in 2009, challenging the affiliation agreement proposed by Redecard to intermediary companies (associates Description of significant fines of Abranet). Redecard presented its defense in SO8 and total number of non– – August 2009, refuting the allegations of Abranet. monetary sanctions Subsequently, the SDE started the finding of facts and started to perform several diligences in this sense. Letters were sent, responses submitted and the manifestation of SDE is currently awaited. Product responsibility Customer health and safety (10, 11, 18, 19 and 32); Product and service labeling (11 and 44); Disclosure on Approach Marketing communications (18, 32 and 44); Management (DMA-PR) Customer privacy (18 and 19); Compliance (non-material). Customer health and safety Policy for preserving the PR1 consumer’s health and safety 18 – – during use of the product Product and service labeling Practices related to customer satisfaction, including results PR5 44 – – of surveys measuring customer satisfaction Marketing Communications 14 Programs for adherence to laws, Compliance with the codes is reviewed annually. PR6 – – standards, and voluntary codes Redecard does not trade products that are subject matter of public controversy. Evidenced complaints regarding PR8 18 and 19 – – customer privacy violation Sustainability Annual Report 2011 85 Sustainability Annual Report 2011 86 Company’s action overview (Ibase and NBCT15) 1 Calculation Basis 2011 R$ thousand 2010 R$ thousand 2009 R$ thousand Net revenue 2,772,506 2,618,268 2,423,344 Results of operations 2,079,397 2,075,651 2,069,189 Gross payroll 176,421 154,379 106,212 Total value added 2,581,799 2,527,415 2,450,755 % of gross % of net % of total % of gross % of net % of total % of gross % of net % of total 2 – Internal Social Indicators R$ thousand R$ thousand R$ thousand payroll revenue value added payroll revenue value added payroll revenue value added Food 7,492 4.9% 0.3% 0.3% 6,762 4.4% 0.3% 0.3% 4,013 3.8% 0.2% 0.2% Payroll charges 44,129 28.6% 1.7% 1.7% 40,373 26.2% 1.5% 1.6% 29,385 27.7% 1.2% 1.2% Private pension plan 4,962 3.2% 0.2% 0.2% 4,200 2.7% 0.2% 0.2% 3,712 3.5% 0.2% 0.2% Health 8,589 5.6% 0.3% 0.3% 7,578 4.9% 0.3% 0.3% 5,146 4.8% 0.2% 0.2% Occupational safety and health 0 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% 0 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% 0 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% Education 614 0.4% 0.0% 0.0% 927 0.6% 0.0% 0.0% 604 0.6% 0.0% 0.0% Culture 0 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% 0 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% 0 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% Professional training and development 2,744 1.8% 0.1% 0.1% 2,592 1.7% 0.1% 0.1% 1,983 1.9% 0.1% 0.1% Kindergarten or kindergarten allowance 10 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% 27 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% 66 0.1% 0.0% 0.0% Sports 0 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% 0 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% 0 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% Profit sharing 33,959 22.0% 1.3% 1.3% 30,391 19.7% 1.2% 1.2% 26,555 25.0% 1.1% 1.1% Transportation 1,156 0.7% 0.0% 0.0% 789 0.5% 0.0% 0.0% 798 0.8% 0.0% 0.0% Other 9,820 6.4% 0.4% 0.4% 4,349 2.8% 0.2% 0.2% 3,926 3.7% 0.2% 0.2% Total – Internal social indicators 113,475 73.5% 4.3% 4.5% 97,988 63.5% 3.7% 3.9% 76,188 71.7% 3.1% 3.1% % of results of % of total % of results of % of total % of results of % of total 3 – External social indicators R$ thousand % of Net rev. R$ thousand % of Net rev. R$ thousand % of Net rev. operations value added operations value added operations value added Education 307 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% 45 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% 0 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% Culture 12,259 0.6% 0.5% 0.5% 11,777 0.6% 0.4% 0.5% 13,105 0.6% 0.0% 0.5% Health and sanitation 0 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% 0 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% 0 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% Sports 2,752 0.1% 0.1% 0.1% 2,223 0.1% 0.1% 0.1% 2,530 0.1% 0.0% 0.1% Actions against hunger and food security 0 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% 0 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% 0 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% Sector indicator 0 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% 0 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% 0 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% Other 2,977 0.1% 0.1% 0.1% 2,941 0.1% 0.1% 0.1% 2,863 0.1% 0.0% 0.1% Total contributions to society 18,295 0.9% 0.7% 0.7% 16,986 0.8% 0.6% 0.7% 18,498 0.9% 0.0% 0.8% Taxes (excluding payroll charges) 914,932 44.1% 34.9% 36.2% 903,963 43.6% 34.5% 35.8% 894,343 43.2% 0.0% 36.5% Total – External social indicators 933,227 45.0% 35.6% 36.9% 920,949 44.4% 35.2% 36.4% 912,841 44.1% 0.0% 37.2% % of results of % of total % of results of % of total % of results of % of net % of total 4 – Environmental indicators R$ thousand % of net revere R$ thousand % of net revere R$ thousand operations value added operations value added operations revenue value added 4.1 – Investments related to the production/operation of the company Expropriation of land NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA Environmental liabilities and contingencies NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA Technological and industrial development program ND ND ND ND ND ND ND ND ND ND ND ND Energy conservation ND ND ND ND ND ND ND ND ND ND ND ND Environmental education ND ND ND ND 0.51 31 0.0015% 0.0013% 0.00001% Sector indicator ND ND ND ND ND ND ND ND ND ND ND ND Other ND ND ND ND ND ND ND ND ND ND ND ND Total investments related to the production/operation of the company 31 0.0015% 0.0013% 0.00001% 4.2 – Investments in external programs and/or projects Environmental education projects in communities ND ND ND ND ND ND ND ND ND ND ND ND Preservation and/or recovery of degraded environments NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA Other ND ND ND ND ND ND ND ND ND ND ND ND Sustainability Annual Report 2011 87 Sustainability Annual Report 2011 88 Company’s action overview (Ibase and NBCT15) Total Investments in external programs and/or projects ND ND ND ND ND ND ND ND ND ND ND ND Total environmental investments (4.1 + 4.2) 31 0,0015% 0,0013% 0,00001% Distribution of environmental investments R$ thousand % of total R$ thousand % of total R$ thousand % of total Total investments in environmental protection actions ND ND ND ND ND ND Total investments in environmental preservation actions ND ND ND ND ND ND Total investments in environmental compensation 0.51 31 100 Number of environmental administrative and judicial 0 0 0 proceedings filed against the entity: Amount of environmental fines and indemnities ordered 0 0 0 under administrative and/or judicial proceeding: In terms of establishing annual targets to (i) minimize wastes, (ii) minimize the overall consumption in production/ (X) has no targets ( ) complies with 0% to 50% (x) has no targets ( ) complies with 0% to 50% (x ) has no targets ( ) complies with 0% to 50% operation, (iii) increase efficiency for use of natural resources, ( ) complies with 51% to 75% ( ) complies with 76% to 100% ( ) complies with 51% to 75% ( ) complies with 76% to 100% ( ) complies with 51% to 75% ( ) complies with 76% to 100% the company: 5 – Personnel indicators 2011 2010 2009 Number of employees at the end of the period 1045 1,455 793 Number of hirings 371 950 172 Number of layoffs 771 288 168 Number of outsourced employees 5,267 4,634 2,649 Number of interns 9 4 29 Number of employees over 45 86 109 78 Number of employees by age group: Under 18 0 0 0 Between 18 and 35 661 1,024 446 Between 36 and 45 298 343 269 Between 46 and 60 85 88 78 Above 60 1 0 Number of employees by education level: Unable to read and write 0 0 Junior school completed 2 28 7 High school/technical 107 293 226 high school completed Post-secondary study completed 740 895 427 Graduate course completed 196 239 133 Number of women 487 677 358 % of management positions held by women 10% 5% 39% Number of men 558 778 435 % of management positions held by men 16% 9% 61% Number of black employees ND ND % of management positions held by black employees ND ND Number of employees with disabilities or special needs 51 52 29 Gross compensation divided by the number of: Employees ND ND ND Management staff ND ND ND Difference between the lowest salary paid by the company 1,33 and the minimum (national or regional) wage Difference between the lowest salary paid by the company 1,47 1,33 2,325 and the minimum wage Source Payroll Dec 2011 Payroll Dec 2010 Payroll Dec 2009 Sustainability Annual Report 2011 89 Sustainability Annual Report 2011 90 Company’s action overview (Ibase and NBCT15) 6 – Relevant information on the exercise of corporate 2011 2010 2009 citizenship Ratio of highest to lowest compensation at the company 43,88 49,88 ND Total number of work-related accidents 5 6 10 Social and environmental projects developed by the company ( ) top-level executives (X) top-level executives ( ) top-level executives (X) top-level executives ( ) top-level executives (X) top-level executives were selected by: and mid-level management ( ) all employees and mid-level management ( ) all employees and mid-level management ( ) all employees The company's standard for safety and cleanliness at the ( ) top-level executives and mid-level management ( ) top-level executives and mid-level management ( ) top-level executives and mid-level management workplace were set by: ( ) all employees (X) all employees + CIPA ( ) all employees (X) all employees + CIPA ( ) all employees (X) all employees + CIPA Concerning freedom of union association, the right to collective ( ) is not involved (X) follows ILO standards ( ) is not involved (X) follows ILO standards ( ) is not involved (X) follows ILO standards bargaining and internal representation, the company: ( ) encourages and follows ILO standards ( ) encourages and follows ILO standards ( ) encourages and follows ILO standards ( ) top-level executives ( ) top-level executives ( ) top-level executives ( ) top-level executives ( ) top-level executives ( ) top-level executives The company’s pension plan covers: and mid-level management (X) all employees and mid-level management (X) all employees and mid-level management (X) all employees ( ) top-level executives ( ) top-level executives ( ) top-level executives ( ) top-level executives ( ) top-level executives ( ) top-level executives Profit sharing covers: and mid-level management (X) all employees and mid-level management (X) all employees and mid-level management (X) all employees Regarding selection of suppliers, the standards on ethics and ( ) are not considered (X) are suggested ( ) are required ( ) are not considered (X) are suggested ( ) are required ( ) are not considered (X) are suggested ( ) are required social and environmental responsibility of the company: Regarding employees' participation in volunteer work, the ( ) is not involved ( ) supports (x) organizes and encourages ( ) is not involved ( ) supports (x) organizes and encourages ( ) is not involved ( ) supports (x) organizes and encourages company: Ombudsman/Customer In the company Ombudsman/ Customer Service Center In the company In the company 11,121 Service Center In Consumer In Consumer In Consumer Total number of complaints and critiques of consumers: Protection 505 Protection Agency 252 Protection 65 Agency (Procon) (Procon) Agency (Procon) In court 1714 In court 714 In court 611 In the company Ombudsman/Customer Service Center In the company Ombudsman/ In the company 100% In Consumer In Consumer % complaints and critiques answered or resolved: Protection 100% Customer 100% Protection 17% Agency (Procon) Agency (Procon) In court 100% Service Center In the company 100% 12% Fines and indemnity payments to clients, imposed by By Procon 46,817,00 By Procon 75,600,00 By Procon 0 consumer protection bodies or by court: By Court 616,071,00 By court 1,194,971,13 By court 787,083,54 Main actions are: Main actions are: 1. Investment in the SIX – SIGMA QUALITY PROGRAM, training of eight Main actions are: Actions taken by the company to mitigate or minimize causes 1. Alteration of the Technical Assistance Model to repair machinery Quality groups under Black Belt coordination, five groups of which acted 1. Set up of Quality Work Groups (focused on reducing complaints) of complaints: with problems; in the reduction of the top five complaints to Ombudsman; 2. Restructuring of the Customer Service Center (new Service 2. Improvements in Redecard’s Merchant Affiliation Program; 2. Set up of a Customer Service Center specific to answer customers’ model) 3. Implementation of Relationship Project 2.0 at the Call Centers. complaints, and which operates in line with the Ombudsman. Number of labor lawsuits: Filed against the company 299 138 141 Accepted by court 3 12 14 Rejected by court 66 35 41 Total amount of indemnities and fines paid by court order: 182,622,00 576,692,69 472,988,47 Total value added to distribute (R$ thousand): 2,581,799 2,527,415 2,450,755 Value Added Distribution: R$ thousand % of total R$ thousand % of total R$ thousand % of total Government 949,248 36.8% 934,314 37.0% 913,886 37.3% Employees 217,435 8.4% 185,584 7.3% 135,822 5.5% Shareholders 616,215 23.9% 717,176 28.4% 686,466 28.0% Third parties 10,694 0.4% 7,555 0.3% 6,487 0.3% Retained 788,207 30.5% 682,786 27.0% 708,094 28.9% 7 Other information Due to changes in the accounting standards (IFRS), we altered the following information: in line (4) the information relating to 2009 and 2008, and in lines 123 and 125 the information relating to 2009. N/A – Not Applicable ND – Not Available Sustainability Annual Report 2011 91 GRI statement Sustainability Annual Report 2011 92 Credits General Coordination Redecard Investor Relations and Sustainability Area, and Marketing Superintendence Sustainability Consulting and GRI Stakeholder Panels and Materiality Matrix – Management & Excellence Collection of Indicators – Investor Relations and Sustainability Department Review of Indicators – Redecard Internal Audit GRI Consulting, Texts and Editing Report Comunicação Content Consulting Lélio Lauretti English Version Toda & Rebonatti Traduções Graphic Design and Editorial Report Comunicação Images Ricardo Corrêa Typeface The Sans, Lucas de Groot, 1994
