CSR REPORT 2011 CONTENTS 03_A word from the CEO OUR APPROACH 05_KMD joins UN Global Compact 06_Scope of the report 07_CSR strategy and governance WELFARE 10_IT skills among the elderly 10_Welfare technology in practice 11_Online help with homework 11_PCs for children in care 11_Keeping kids active 11_Welfare Innovation Day 12_Results and goals DIGITAL DENMARK 14_The Digital Council 15_KMD Analysis 15_The General Election visits KMD 16_Digitisation Prize 16_KMD Innovation Award 17_Danish IT Industry Association work experience week 18_Results and goals EMPLOYEES 20_Focus on employee satisfaction 20_Focus on health and safety 21_Focus on health 21_Diversity 22_Results and goals CLIMATE & ENVIRONMENT 24_KMD’s work on climate and the environment 25_Carbon-neutral energy consumption 25_New environmental management 25_DONG Energy Climate Partner 26_Results and goals SUPPLY CHAIN 28_Corporate compliance 29_Whistleblower scheme 29_New supply chain management policy 29_Audit of strategic partners 30_Results and goals KMD A/S Ballerup CVR no. 26 91 17 45 CSR Report 2011 1st year of publication A WORD FROM THE CEO Welcome to KMD’s first CSR report, which provides an These five themes illustrate how we, as a company, have introduction to our work on corporate social responsibility. our roots in the Danish welfare society but also have a keen interest in how digital possibilities benefit the whole Since 1972 KMD has played a key role in building the of society. At the same time, we are well aware that, with modern welfare society for which Denmark is known today. a workforce of more than 3,000, KMD has an important We have digitised large parts of the country’s public sector responsibility for the welfare of our employees. Our size and now handle the payment of social security benefits and consumption of resources also mean that we have an literally from cradle to grave, processing the equivalent of impact on the climate and the environment, an impact that 25% of Denmark’s GDP every year, and we are currently we are doing our utmost to reduce while also providing supporting the digitisation of the school, health and elderly technological solutions that can help others in the quest for care sectors. a more sustainable world. Finally, we are very conscious that, as a company, we have a duty to ensure that our In other words, KMD has a strong interest in how we responsible approach to the running and development of shape, foster and develop our society, and so it is only our business does not stop at our door but also extends to natural for KMD to play an active part in society and our suppliers and, ultimately, delivery to our customers. bear its share of responsibility. You can read more about specific initiatives and our goals In 2011 we moved our work on CSR in a new strategic for the future on the following pages. I hope that you will direction, committing to the UN Global Compact’s ten take the time to consider our contributions and feel free principles in the areas of human rights, labour, environto contact us with any questions or comments. ment and anti-corruption. We consider it a given that a company of KMD’s size and position will aspire to have a positive influence on society. We consulted our employees and conducted ongoing dialogue with key stakeholders on where KMD should concentrate its CSR efforts. In the light of this process, we have chosen to focus on the following five themes in our CSR work: _Welfare Happy reading! _Digital Denmark _Employees _Climate & Environment Lars Monrad-Gylling _Supply Chain CEO 3 OUR APPROACH OUR APPROACH KMD JOINS UN GLOBAL COMPACT On 1 November 2011 KMD’s Chairman Vagn Sørensen as general guidance for private enterprise. The individual and CEO Lars Monrad-Gylling signed the UN Global company can either tailor the principles for integration into Compact, thereby committing KMD to ten principles its business strategy as general guidelines for responsible of responsible business spanning human rights, labour, enterprise, or focus on the principles most appropriate to environment and anti-corruption. its field of business. The aim of the Global Compact is to involve businesses The table below shows how the principles of the Global in overcoming the considerable social and environmental Compact relate to the goals in KMD’s CSR strategy for challenges associated with globalisation. The principles 2015. of the Global Compact are therefore intended to be used KMD CSR The UN Global Compact’s ten principles Themes Focus areas 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 Welfare Schools • Health & Care • Digital Knowledge sharing • Denmark Digital self-service • Employees Respect • • • • • Pride • • • • • Equal opportunities • • • • • Climate & Carbon emissions • • • Environment Electronic waste • • • Environmental • • • management Supply Chain Corporate compliance • • • • • • • • • • Partnerships • • • • • • • • • • Transparency • • • • • • • • • • 5 OUR APPROACH THE UN GLOBAL COMPACT’S TEN PRINCIPLES THE FIVE THEMES OF KMD’S CSR WORK 1. Businesses should support and respect the protection WELFARE With its extensive knowledge of the public of internationally proclaimed human rights sector, KMD will spearhead the development of the digital welfare society without compromising democratic rights. 2. Businesses should make sure that they are not complicit This includes ensuring that people have the skills they need. in human rights abuses DIGITAL DENMARK KMD will work towards 80% of 3. Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective communication between members of the public and bargaining ­authorities being digital by 2015, with the benefits this will bring for society and citizens alike. 4. Businesses should uphold the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour EMPLOYEES KMD wants to have ambitious, proud and healthy employees who reflect the diversity of the society 5. Businesses should uphold the effective abolition in which we operate. of child labour CLIMATE & ENVIRONMENT The IT sector is responsible 6. Businesses should uphold the elimination of discriminafor 2% of total carbon emissions. As one of Denmark’s tion in respect of employment and occupation largest IT companies, it is both necessary and natural for 7. Businesses should support a precautionary approach KMD to adopt an active approach to global climate and to environmental challenges environmental problems. 8. Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote SUPPLY CHAIN KMD recognises that, as part of the global greater environmental responsibility economy, the company is responsible for influencing its supply chain and will strive for all strategic suppliers to 9. Businesses should encourage the development and work in compliance with the principles of the UN Global diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies Compact by 2015 at the latest. 10. Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery SCOPE OF THE REPORT This report covers the whole of the KMD Group with the the strategy process work behind the five themes chosen for exception of KMD Informatik A/S (formerly Rambøll KMD’s CSR efforts – Welfare, Digital Denmark, Employees, Informatik A/S), which was acquired by KMD in October Climate & Environment and Supply Chain – as well as the 2011 and has not yet been fully integrated into KMD’s HR results achieved in 2011 and goals for 2012. It also shows systems and energy measurements. how these themes and the resulting initiatives tie in with the company’s work on the Global Compact’s ten principles. The report serves as KMD’s Communication on Progress with respect to the UN Global Compact and presents 6 OUR APPROACH CSR STRATEGY AND GOVERNANCE KMD occupies a key position in the Danish welfare society. Input on the main elements of the strategy was also We consequently have both a desire and an obligation obtained through dialogue with external stakeholders. to play an active part in society and bear our share of This dialogue has subsequently led to concrete projects social responsibility. KMD has therefore chosen to work under the various themes. strategically on CSR, as illustrated by the recruitment of our first Head of CSR in 2011. The new strategy identifies the following five themes for KMD’s CSR work: Welfare, Digital Denmark, Employees, KMD decided in 2011 to embark on a comprehensive Climate & Environment and Supply Chain. strategy process regarding its CSR work, involving managers and other employees across the business. This entails starting from KMD’s position as an IT company A questionnaire survey of employee attitudes to KMD’s with a vision of creating digital shortcuts for customers role as a socially responsible business and KMD’s commerand society. In terms of CSR, this means that KMD will cial strategic objectives was used to identify a number create digital shortcuts that contribute to a richer, safer of themes for work on CSR. These themes and KMD’s and more sustainable society. overall goals for this work were then discussed by an ad hoc subcommittee of KMD’s works council. The input from The diagram below provides an overview of KMD’s both the questionnaire and the subcommittee proved very CSR strategy. useful, especially in terms of employee involvement. KMD’s vision The Digital Shortcut CSR mission KMD will create digital shortcuts that contribute to a richer, safer and more sustainable society Principles WE LISTEN BEFORE SPEAKING · WE SHOW RESPECT · WE TAKE RESPONSIBILITY · WE EXCEED EXPECTATIONS · WE GET RESULTS Themes WELFARE DIGITAL EMPLOYEES CLIMATE & SUPPLY CHAIN DENMARK ENVIRONMENT Respect Carbon emissions Corporate Focus areas Knowledge Schools compliance sharing Pride Electronic waste Partnerships Digital Health & Care self-service Equal Environmental Transparency opportunities management Stakeholder dialogue and partnerships 7 OUR APPROACH KMD has also chosen to introduce a governance structure The CSR Board issues guidelines for the company’s CSR that ensures that its CSR strategy is clearly anchored in efforts and monitors and drives progress on the targets top management. Responsibility for CSR work rests with set for the various themes. KMD’s works council also serves a CSR Board chaired by CEO Lars Monrad-Gylling, which as a reference group for the development of CSR work. was set up in 2011 and also includes the Vice Presidents for Business Development, Sales and Marketing, Facility Management and Law, and HR and Communication. Board of Directors Works council Executive Board CSR Board Targets WELFARE DIGITAL EMPLOYEES CLIMATE & SUPPLY CHAIN and DENMARK ENVIRONMENT reporting CSR Core Team 8 VELFÆRD WELFARE 9 WELFARE KMD has played a key role in the Danish welfare society everyone, regardless of age or life situation, feels that for 40 years. Many of our systems support the public sector the digitisation of welfare is a benefit, not a drawback. daily, handling payments, transfers, registrations and services for millions of Danes. KMD is therefore investing in improving the IT skills of weaker groups and demonstrating how IT can help Our core business is to create digital shortcuts which make increase the capabilities of everyone in Danish society. life easier and more efficient for public servants and the Our goal is to support effective implementation of the public alike. many focus areas identified in the government’s digitisation strategy. More specifically, KMD has chosen to focus on The Danish welfare society currently faces a major chalschools, health and elderly care, entering into partnerships lenge: achieving more with less. KMD sees considerable with ARD, Metropolitan University College and DaneAge potential for digitisation here, but we must ensure that as discussed below. IT SKILLS AMONG WELFARE TECHNOLOGY THE ELDERLY IN PRACTICE In autumn 2011 KMD teamed up with Denmark’s largest KMD also entered into a partnership with Metropolitan organisation for the elderly, DaneAge, to develop an University College in Copenhagen in autumn 2011. e-learning programme for use in DaneAge’s work on Together we aim to create an education programme teaching IT skills to the elderly. which gives tomorrow’s welfare personnel an under­ standing of new welfare technology. Statistics show that there are still 400,000 elderly people in Denmark who have never been on the Internet. As Metropolitan University College provides a wide range the public sector looks to step up the number of digital of courses in health and elderly care, training nurses, self-service solutions and expand the use of welfare care assistants, physiotherapists, occupational therapists technology, this is a barrier for both the authorities and and school teachers. As these are the people who will the individual senior citizen in terms of mutually benefiting be spearheading the future digitisation of the welfare from digital services. We therefore consider it only natural society, it is naturally in KMD’s interests to introduce them for KMD to be involved in work on increasing computer to welfare technology. literacy among the elderly. Together with teaching staff at Metropolitan, KMD is The programme is being developed by KMD’s e-learning developing a programme which gives students an intro­ team in Aalborg, while DaneAge is responsible for the duction to welfare technology and a chance to test their areas in which training is to be given. As part of the new knowledge in practice during their work experience. process, KMD will hold a series of workshops with KMD employees will also help teach parts of the course. volunteers from DaneAge’s IT team and test the product After their work experience, students will have an oppor­ on the actual target group. tunity to give KMD feedback on the potential for welfare technology in their particular area in practice, which The product will be put up on DaneAge’s website and used KMD can then use as input when developing new products in training courses held by DaneAge around the country. and improving existing ones. The goal is for 10,000 people to complete the programme The concept will be trialled for the first time in February during the first year. KMD and DaneAge will then consider 2012, after which a decision will be taken on whether how the programme can be improved and expanded. to expand the project to include even more students. 10 WELFARE ONLINE HELP WITH HOMEWORK PCS FOR CHILDREN IN CARE KMD began working with the State and University Library KMD decided in December 2011 to donate DKK 100,000 in Aarhus in 2011 on a project called Lektier Online to Børnenes IT-Fond, a fund set up jointly by the Danish to provide online help with homework for disadvantaged IT Industry Association, the National Council for Children, children. International Data Group and children’s charity Børne­ hjælpsdagen to provide PCs for children in care for From 1 April 2012 KMD will set up its own online study educational use. cafés staffed by KMD employees who will swap their normal working hours for shifts as online helpers. KMD’s donation translates into PCs for 40 children who would not otherwise have daily access to their own KMD decided to get involved in the project because it computer, removing one of the barriers faced by these is a very clear example of how digital aids can increase children in terms of both education and leisure. KMD hopes disadvantaged children’s chances of completing their that the donation will help bring these disadvantaged schooling and going on to further education. children closer to a normal life and increase their chances of completing their schooling and going on to further education. KEEPING KIDS ACTIVE WELFARE INNOVATION DAY Aktiv rundt i Danmark (ARD) is Denmark’s largest exercise Together with think-tank Monday Morning, insurer Alka movement for children, now in its fifth year. Almost Forsikring, the Danish Service Industries Federation 140,000 pupils from almost 7,000 classes at more than and welfare technology initiative velfærdsteknologi.nu, 1,100 schools across the country were involved in 2011. KMD co-hosted the conference Welfare Innovation Day, which brought together more than 800 practitioners and KMD decided to support ARD to the tune of DKK 200,000 managers from the Danish welfare sector in Copenhagen. in 2011 because exercise has been a priority at KMD KMD took the opportunity to present its Online Omsorg for several years, both internally for our employees and solution for tomorrow’s care sector as well as the first externally through our sponsorship of the KMD Challenge of two analyses from KMD Analyse looking at digital Copenhagen, KMD Challenge Aarhus and KMD 4:18:4 possibilities for improvements and optimisation of resources triathlon events. in the care of the elderly and chronically ill. By sponsoring ARD, KMD can also learn more about what really works in schools and what motivates and develops both teachers and pupils. This knowledge can then be used actively in our work on digitising the school sector. 11 WELFARE RESULTS AND GOALS Focus area Results in 2011 Goals for 2012 Schools Aktiv rundt i Danmark Lektier Online KMD supported children’s exercise movement Together with Lektier Online, KMD will open ARD to the tune of DKK 200,000. one or more study cafés at KMD sites staffed by up to 45 KMD employees, who will be Børnenes IT-Fond able to swap their normal working hours for KMD donated DKK 100,000 to Børnenes shifts providing help with homework. IT-Fond, ensuring that 40 children in care received a PC to support their education. Lektier Online KMD entered into an agreement with the State and University Library in Aarhus on setting up study cafés for online homework assistance staffed by KMD employees. Health and DaneAge DaneAge elderly care KMD entered into a partnership agreement KMD will launch a new e-learning programme with DaneAge on the development of e-learning in 2012 for DaneAge’s work on teaching IT programmes for the elderly to be used in the skills to the elderly. The aim is to increase the movement’s work on teaching IT skills to the computer literacy of at least 10,000 people elderly. A total of 118 hours were spent on over the age of 65 by the end of 2013. developing the programme in 2011. ­Metropolitan University College ­ MD entered into a partnership agreement K Together with Metropolitan University College, with Metropolitan University College on the KMD will pilot a programme in welfare development of training in welfare technology technology for students on health care courses. for students on health care courses. 12 DIGITAL DENMARK DIGITAL DENMARK 13 DIGITAL DENMARK When it comes to the digitisation of Denmark, KMD KMD is keen to work together in many different ways with can legitimately claim a stake. The solutions that we have many different stakeholders – customers, organisations and helped deliver over the past 40 years have played a major individuals alike. KMD therefore supports research projects, part in Denmark topping the rankings of the world’s most arranges conferences and publishes analyses that encourdigitised countries year after year. age debate and enable society to make use of the wealth of knowledge that we have amassed during almost To retain this position, it is important for KMD to help 40 years in the market for digital solutions. We believe shape developments – and be shaped by them. KMD’s that this is one of the most important contributions to society CSR work therefore also focuses on using our considerable that we as a company can make. expertise in and for society so that we can help find and deliver appropriate solutions to all kinds of problems. THE DIGITAL COUNCIL KMD’s CEO Lars Monrad-Gylling is among the three The council has three equal-ranking members: members of the Digital Council, which was set up to promote constructive debate about the digitisation of Lars Monrad-Gylling, KMD the public sector in Denmark, including discussion of its Jørgen Bardenfleth, Microsoft potential and impact. Each year the council publishes Martin Lippert, TDC two or three reports looking in depth at challenges and perspectives in relation to the digitisation of the country’s As part of its work, the council has an ongoing dialogue public sector. with key public servants from central, regional and local government in order to ensure a connection between 2011 brought reports on welfare through growth and the council’s analyses and reality in the public sector. digitisation, and the local government sector’s channel strategy for servicing the public. Previous analyses have included the digitisation of schools and digital self-service solutions. 14 DIGITAL DENMARK KMD ANALYSIS KMD Analysis is a unit at KMD which prepares analyses published a report on public attitudes to digital solutions of digital opportunities in Denmark in both the public in the democratic process, such as e-voting. Finally, the and private sectors. unit published a report on benefit fraud in Denmark and the solutions, both digital and non-digital, available to The unit published four reports in 2011, all focusing prevent it. on digital potential in the Danish welfare society. With its reports on the digitisation of care for the elderly and KMD Analysis is working together with the Center for those with chronic illnesses, KMD Analysis is setting the Digital Government (CEDI) and others on developing agenda for the further development of the Danish welfare analyses and will continue to stimulate debate on digital society. The reports conclude that more widespread use topics in 2012. of digital solutions can release resources in the public care sector running into billions of kroner. In connection with the parliamentary elections in autumn 2011, KMD Analysis THE GENERAL ELECTION VISITS KMD There is no more important event in terms of Danish current ministers, took part in a televised debate in KMD’s democracy than the parliamentary elections, and KMD is canteen at head office in Ballerup where KMD’s employees proud to have played a key role in them since the 1970s. had an opportunity to put questions to the candidates. The elections are monitored very closely by KMD’s election KMD employees take a keen interest in politics, as the support and technical experts at head office in Ballerup, decisions taken in parliament often have a direct impact who are on red alert on election night. on the services that KMD is to deliver. We therefore consider it a natural part of our social engagement to give KMD also experienced democracy close at hand when six employees an opportunity to get involved in the political parliamentary candidates, including two former and three debate. 15 DIGITAL DENMARK DIGITISATION PRIZE For a number of years KMD has sponsored the Digitisation digital communication between the public sector and the Prize awarded at the Digitise Denmark conference hosted public by the end of 2015. KMD naturally has a commerby the Ministry of Finance’s Digitisation Board. cial interest in this area, but we also believe that it is here that we as a company can be of greatest value to society The aim of the prize is to further the digitisation of as a whole. By supporting successful realisation of the the public sector, as innovative use of IT can increase government’s objectives, we are also helping create efficiency in the public sector and improve service levels better and more efficient solutions to the benefit of citizens, for the public. This will help maintain Denmark’s position employees and society as a whole. This puts KMD in as a leading IT nation with a world-class public sector and a unique position in Danish society, and we need to be enhance the country’s prospects in the global knowledge conscious of this responsibility and help identify the best economy. solutions and reward those who go that extra mile. For this reason KMD is part of the Digitisation Prize. This is a direct extension of KMD’s overall goal for its CSR work, which is to support the government’s target of 80% KMD INNOVATION AWARD In 2011 KMD in association with the IT University of Copenhagen presented the KMD Innovation Award with the intention of giving students an incentive to research and challenge the public sector with welfare technology solutions. The winner was Anders Lisdorf with his proposal to reward members of the public with points when they “behave responsibly”. If, for example, someone fails to turn up for a scheduled operation, this costs society a great deal of money. The points offer an incentive for attending and could then be used on the Internet in a special web­shop to support selected charitable and social projects. 16 DIGITAL DENMARK DANISH IT INDUSTRY ASSOCIATION WORK EXPERIENCE WEEK KMD took part in the Danish IT Industry Association’s work _An extension of the Skolekom portal for pupils and experience week for the fourth successive year in 2011. teachers where pupils can borrow and review books We welcomed 32 schoolchildren in year 9 from across and find timetables and other practical information the country for a week of work experience and gave them an opportunity to contribute to the development of IT for _A desk with an integral docking station so that pupils schools. At the end of the week, the pupils presented can recharge their iPhones and laptops without having proposals to a panel of KMD employees who chose cables everywhere (the winning solution) the best idea from among the following: By doing this, KMD is helping make IT an exciting and _A learning game for teenagers studying languages contemporary subject with endless possibilities. IT will be one of the most critical areas in overcoming many _A formal chat forum for pupils and communication of the challenges that Denmark faces as a welfare society with teachers in the coming years. KMD will open its doors in this way once again in 2012 in order to stimulate interest in IT _A combined database of pupils’ and teachers’ and the company itself in the longer term. materials, submissions and help videos _An app store for the iPad and iPhone where pupils can obtain textbooks and audio books 17 DIGITAL DENMARK RESULTS AND GOALS Focus area Results in 2011 Goals for 2012 Knowledge KMD Analysis KMD Analysis sharing KMD Analysis published four reports on KMD Analysis will publish at least two the digitisation of Danish society to analyses of the digitisation of Danish society. encourage debate. Danish IT Industry Association Danish IT Industry Association work experience week work experience week KMD will again take part in the IT Industry KMD participated in the IT Industry Association’s work experience week and ­Association’s work experience week, expects to welcome at least 30 school pupils ­welcoming 32 school pupils to its three nationwide. biggest sites. Welfare technology think tank The Digital Council KMD will set up a think tank on welfare As a member of the Digital Council, KMD technology to prepare a strategy for delivered two reports on the digitisation the practical implementation of welfare of Danish society. technology at local government level. The Digital Council As a member of the Digital Council, KMD will publish at least two analyses of the digitisation of Danish society. Digital self-service Digitisation Prize Digitisation Prize in the public sector KMD took part in the selection and KMD will take part in the selection and presentation of the Digitisation Prize 2011. presentation of the Digitisation Prize 2012. ITU KMD Innovation Award KMD in association with the IT University of Copenhagen presented the KMD Innovation Award, which highlights welfare technology solutions developed by students. 18 EMPLOYEES 19 EMPLOYEES KMD’s social responsibility also extends to its employees, As a member of the UN Global Compact, KMD has including both their working conditions and their ability a responsibility to ensure that our employees have sound to realise KMD’s social responsibility. working conditions. We therefore also focus on providing a framework which offers the necessary flexibility in terms KMD already creates considerable value for society on the of work/life balance. We offer attractive terms for older strength of its products, but we are keen to do even more. workers and parents and easy access to sports facilities, Our employees are crucial in this respect, as well as when and we believe in close dialogue with employees and their it comes to developing, maintaining and updating digital elected representatives on working conditions and the solutions for the whole of Danish society. Our CSR work working environment at the company. therefore centres on the workforce’s combined skills, because it is here that we can see KMD delivering the most value to society. FOCUS ON EMPLOYEE FOCUS ON HEALTH SATISFACTION AND SAFETY There was a decrease in employee satisfaction at KMD in KMD also turned the spotlight onto the working environ2011. Drilling down into the data, we can see that KMD’s ment in 2011 with a new health and safety organisation. employees are generally very proud of their workplace The organisation has been slimmed down, and the number (82%) but have found it hard to get to grips with the major of health and safety representatives has been reduced from changes seen over the past three years, with new owner70 to 50, but there is now greater emphasis on the key ship, a new organisation, a new performance culture aspects of health and safety. Together with the recruitment and increased competition. of KMD’s first Head of Health and Safety, this signalled a fresh focus on the working environment at the company. As a result, KMD decided at the end of 2011 to involve both managers and other employees in developing new As a result of the restructuring of the health and safety initiatives to support KMD’s goal of happy, healthy and organisation and the ensuing process, no specific targets proud employees. More specifically, four working groups for health and safety at KMD were set for 2011. The results have been set up to work on the following areas: job of the company’s statutory workplace assessment will not satisfaction and pride; management and communication; be available until January 2012, after which a position skills and tools; and procedures and processes. will be taken on where KMD is to concentrate its efforts. KMD’s goal is for these and a variety of other initiatives to shift employees’ perception of the business in an even more positive direction in 2012. 20 EMPLOYEES FOCUS ON HEALTH Employee health has been on the agenda at KMD for sessions with a special focus on the three disciplines of the many years. No fewer than 820 employees ran in the triathlon: swimming, cycling and running. DHL Stafetten mass relay race in 2011, equivalent to more than a quarter of the workforce. KMD also sponsored Employees also have a health scheme which provides the Computerworld relay race, in which more than 200 quick and free access to a range of treatments (chiro­ KMD employees participated, and more than 400 KMD practic, physiotherapy, reflexology and massage) for employees took part in the Danish Cyclists’ Federation’s occupational injuries. cycle-to-work campaign, putting more than 83,000 km behind them – equivalent to almost twice around the Earth. KMD’s focus on employee health is also reflected in sickness absence, which averaged 6.0 days per employee 2011 also saw KMD working with YWC Sports on the in 2011. This is 14.3% below the national average of long-distance triathlon events KMD Challenge Copenhagen 7.0 days for the private sector3. KMD’s goal is sickness (full Ironman1) and KMD Challenge Aarhus (half Ironman). absence below the national average and will strive to As part of the alliance, KMD is also sponsoring the shorter maintain the low level through a focused effort on sport 4:18:4 triathlon2, in which several hundred KMD employees and exercise and on the physical and psychological are expected to take part. KMD will therefore work with the working environment. Objectives for the latter area will company’s sports clubs in 2012 to organise joint training be set on the completion of the statutory workplace assessment in January 2012. DIVERSITY KMD planned to step up and improve its work on diversity KMD continued and expanded its partnership with the in 2011, but it was not possible to begin this work due Specialist People Foundation, which employs people to a lack of resources. with autistic spectrum disorders, and provided work experience for nine such people in 2011. KMD nevertheless continued to focus on attracting a larger proportion of women to senior positions and on equal pay. KMD aims to introduce a diversity policy in 2012 to The number of female managers at KMD has been stable support work on creating a workplace where diversity around 30% since 2006, while the number of women on contributes positively to development and helps KMD the Executive Board has increased from 0% to 20% in the ensure that the top talents in the Danish labour market same period. choose KMD regardless of gender, ethnicity, age, religion or sexual orientation. Our goal is for the percentage of female managers to match the percentage of female employees at the company as a whole, which was 34% in 2011, so we are well on our way. KMD also has a policy that a female candidate must be interviewed for all management positions. 1. A full Ironman consists of a 2.4 mile swim followed by a 112 mile bike ride and a 26 mile run. 2. The 4:18:4 triathlon consists of a 400 metre swim, an 18 kilometre bike ride and a 4 kilometre run. 3. Statistics Denmark, News from Statistics Denmark no 625. The figures are for 2010 and are the latest available at 31.01.2012. 21 EMPLOYEES RESULTS AND GOALS Focus area Results in 2011 Goals for 2012 Respect Focus on health Focus on health More than 800 KMD employees ran in the KMD will arrange special training sessions DHL Stafetten relay, more than 400 took part for participants in the KMD 4:18:4 triathlon. in a national cycle-to-work campaign, more More than 200 employees are expected than 250 ran in the Computerworld relay to take part. race (which KMD also sponsored), and 50 took part in the KMD 4:18:4 triathlon. Workplace assessment KMD will complete a workplace assessment Head of Health and Safety and use it to identify future focus areas KMD recruited its first Head of Health and in terms of both the physical and the Safety in 2011 and restructured its health ­psychological working environment. and safety organisation. Low sickness absence KMD will work to maintain sickness absence at a maximum of 6.0 days and thus below the national average for private companies according to Statistics Denmark. Pride Working group Activities to increase pride In the light of the results of the year’s KMD will carry out a variety of activities with ­employee satisfaction survey, KMD set up employee involvement in order to identify a working group to focus on job satisfaction ways of increasing employee pride. and pride. Equal Female managers Diversity policy opportunities KMD again had 30% female managers. KMD will introduce a diversity policy along with relevant objectives and initiatives. Diversity initiative A lack of resources meant that planned activities relating to KMD’s diversity initiative had to be postponed. 22 Klima & miljø CLIMATE & ENVIRONMENT 23 CLIMATE & ENVIRONMENT Climate and the environment have been a priority at KMD and increasing efficiency. Digital government in particular for a number of years. has been highlighted as one of the areas with the greatest potential for positive climate effects4. The IT industry is responsible for more than 2% of total global carbon emissions, which is the same as the airline As one of Denmark’s largest IT companies, KMD naturally industry. This is due mainly to the many kilowatt-hours of has an interest in reducing both our own environmental electricity used to operate data centres and private PCs, impact and our customers’ carbon emissions. We have and the large amounts of CO2 produced in the manu­ therefore launched an ambitious environmental policy facture and disposal of hardware. intended to lower our carbon emissions and establish partnerships with suppliers and customers so that our On the positive side, IT solutions can help to considerably overall environmental impact is minimised. reduce carbon emissions by limiting the need for travel KMD’S WORK ON CLIMATE AND THE ENVIRONMENT KMD has been working actively on maximising energy KMD therefore continued its work on improving energy efficiency since 2008, when we launched an environ­ efficiency across the organisation in 2011. The goal mental policy setting clear targets for energy efficiency, is to find concrete savings of 2.4 million kWh by the travel and environmental management. By 2010, KMD end of 2012, and we managed savings of 1.9 million had made energy savings of 4.04 million kWh, thereby kWh in 2011 alone. These were achieved primarily by exceeding its target of a 10% reduction in energy ­replacing air-conditioning and humidifying equipment consumption relative to 2008. There was also a focus and the associated control systems, as well as undertaking on lowering carbon emissions from travel by KMD’s smaller energy-saving projects in KMD’s offices. employees, primarily between our various sites. Thanks to a more restrictive travel policy and the introduction Total electricity consumption nevertheless increased by of videoconferencing, carbon emissions from travel were 1.3%, or 410,907 kWh, which should be seen in the light cut by 725 tons or 19% from 2008 to 2010, well in of a 13% increase in production at the company’s data excess of the 10% target. centres as measured by server numbers. With more customers, the need for server capacity is greater, leading In the light of this work in 2008-2010, KMD launched to higher energy consumption. The increase would, a new environmental policy at the end of 2010 with the however, have been greater had KMD not chosen to ambitious goal of reducing our energy consumption by a consolidate its data centre operations at sites in the further 7% from a baseline of 34.4 million kWh in 2010. Copenhagen area. The closure of a data centre at KMD’s KMD also wishes to remain focused on reducing carbon site in Odense cut energy con­sumption by 919,800 kWh. emissions from travel and will therefore work towards a further 10% reduction from a baseline of 2,975 tons Carbon emissions from KMD’s heating consumption were of CO2 in 2010. reduced by 48.7% or 577 tons of CO2 by switching from 4. SMART 2020: Enabling the low carbon economy in the information age, GESI 2008. 24 CLIMATE & ENVIRONMENT natural gas to district heating. This means that KMD’s total target of 10% by the end of 2012. KMD will therefore carbon emissions came to 17,823 tons of CO2, a decrease launch a number of new initiatives in 2012 to promote of 1.9% or 354 tons from 2010. a more climate-friendly meeting culture at the company. For example, there will be a focus on increased use In addition, KMD aims to cut carbon emissions from travel of video communications between KMD’s sites and the by 10% from 2010 to 2012. Emissions from travel were introduction of unified communications, which will reduce reduced by 1.1% to 2,945 tons of CO2 in 2011, and the need for physical meetings and, therefore, travel. so there is a need for further measures if we are to hit the CARBON-NEUTRAL ENERGY NEW ENVIRONMENTAL CONSUMPTION MANAGEMENT KMD’s direct energy consumption5 has been carbon-neutral KMD introduced a new environmental organisation in since 20096 thanks to its partnership with DONG Energy, 2011, including its first ever Head of Environmental Affairs. whereby KMD has agreed to buy electricity from the Horns The new organisation is intended to bring about a sharper Rev 2 offshore wind farm corresponding to the Group’s focus on the environment so that KMD can meet its targets total direct energy consumption. The transition to green for environmentally and climate-friendly operation, with energy means that KMD purchases renewable energy specific reference to KMD’s goal of attaining certification corresponding to the output from two turbines at Horns under the ISO 14001 environmental management standard Rev 2, the world’s largest offshore wind farm. KMD also in 2013 and its continued focus on energy efficiency and purchases carbon credits corresponding to its heating collaboration with suppliers. consumption. KMD was the first large Danish-based IT company to switch to wind power and carbon-neutral heating, with the result that the IT systems that KMD operates at its data centres are now based on sustainable energy. KMD extended its agreement on carbon-neutral energy in 2011. DONG ENERGY CLIMATE PARTNER KMD entered into a Climate Partnership agreement with This work resulted in savings of 1.9 million kWh in 2011. DONG Energy in 2008 with the aim of reducing KMD’s In 2012 KMD and DONG Energy will continue to work impact on the climate and the environment by switching together on energy efficiency, wind power and, for the to green energy and making energy savings. KMD decided first time, a joint initiative targeting KMD’s customers to extend this agreement in 2011. and employees. KMD and DONG Energy are also working together on identifying and verifying energy savings across KMD’s sites. 5. The total amount of energy used in KMD’s data centres and other properties (including rented properties) in the form of electricity and heating (mainly natural gas and district heating). 6. Until October 2009 KMD purchased RECS certificates issued for electricity generated by Danish wind turbines, but since Horns Rev 2 opened in October 2009 KMD’s electricity has come from there as part of its climate partner agreement with DONG Energy. KMD’s energy consumption is therefore now based on sustainable energy. 25 CLIMATE & ENVIRONMENT RESULTS AND GOALS Focus area Results in 2011 Goals for 2012 Carbon Climate partner agreement Climate partner agreement emissions KMD extended its climate partner agreement KMD will remain carbon-neutral in terms of with DONG Energy, keeping KMD’s direct direct energy consumption through its climate energy consumption carbon-neutral through partner agreement with DONG Energy. investment in the Horns Rev 2 offshore wind farm. Rationalising energy consumption KMD will carry out projects together with Reduced carbon emissions DONG Energy with a view to making energy KMD reduced total carbon emissions by 1.9% savings of at least 800,000 kWh. and made energy savings of 1.9 million kWh in 2011. Reducing paper consumption KMD will reduce the consumption of paper Electricity consumption nevertheless increased in its offices by at least 1 million printed by 1.3%, which should be seen in the light pages from a 2011 baseline of 13 million. of growth of 13% in production at KMD’s data centres as measured by server numbers. Internal campaign KMD will run an internal campaign focusing KMD cut carbon emissions from heating on energy savings, travel habits and printer consumption by 48.7% by switching from use. The aim is to find savings of 300 tons natural gas to district heating. of CO2. Reduced carbon emissions from travel Reducing carbon emissions from travel KMD reduced carbon emissions from travel KMD will reduce carbon emissions by a further by 1.1% relative to 2010. 8.9% relative to 2010. Electronic Measuring electronic waste Take-back of electronic waste waste KMD launched a procedure for measuring KMD will partner with hardware suppliers electronic waste at the company. In 2011 on the take-back of electronic waste for KMD recorded 12,976 tons of electronic environmentally friendly destruction or waste from its sites. ­recycling. Environmental New environmental organisation New environmental management system management KMD recruited its first Head of Environmental KMD will conduct a pre-audit for ISO 14001 Affairs and introduced a new environmental and verify data quality. organisation with a view to ISO 14001 certification in 2013. 26 Leverandørforhold SUPPLY CHAIN 27 SUPPLY CHAIN KMD signed the UN Global Compact in November 2011. KMD has therefore embarked on the process of integrating This means that KMD must take a position on how the the UN Global Compact’s ten principles into the requirecompany can impact positively on human rights, labour ments we make of our suppliers. This will enable KMD rights, the environment and anti-corruption. to encourage suppliers to make improvements in problem areas. It will also give KMD an advantage in its dealings A natural part of this work is to look at conditions at our with customers, as we will be able to document that we suppliers and at our own conditions as a supplier. KMD comply with the Global Compact’s principles. must be able to guarantee its customers products manu­ factured under acceptable conditions and with the least possible negative impact on the environment and climate. CORPORATE COMPLIANCE KMD introduced an ethical code in 2011 with clear ensuring that the company’s overall corporate compliance guidelines for employees’ conduct in the seven focus areas programme was implemented. All KMD employees, for its corporate compliance programme: anti-corruption, including the Executive Board, therefore underwent a information security, competition law, contractual risk compulsory e-learning process based on dilemmas in each management, intellectual property rights, authorisations of the seven focus areas, including the company’s code and document management/storage. of conduct. The code of conduct was prepared in conjunction with All employees are also now required to comply with KMD’s KMD’s works council, which includes local union reprecode of conduct under their employment contracts. sentatives and employee representatives. The finished code was then approved by KMD’s Executive Board. In addition, a corporate compliance subsite has been created on the company’s intranet, running through KMD also focused on preparing and updating policies the specific policies in each area covered by the code. and processes for each of the seven focus areas and 28 SUPPLY CHAIN NEW SUPPLY CHAIN WHISTLEBLOWER SCHEME MANAGEMENT POLICY In 2011, KMD applied to the Danish Data Protection KMD began work on a new central supply chain manageAgency for a permit to set up a whistleblower scheme. ment policy in 2011 based on the UN Global Compact’s This will make it possible for KMD’s employees, including ten principles. the Executive Board and the Board of Directors, to report irregularities in any of the seven aforementioned focus A number of workshops for key buyers and other relevant areas to KMD’s own corporate compliance team or to staff at KMD were organised during the year. Against the an independent external lawyer. KMD expects the scheme background of these workshops, work began on identifying to become operational in early 2012 once a permit risks in relation to the Global Compact in KMD’s current is granted. supply chain. KMD will present its new central supply chain management policy in 2012. AUDIT OF STRATEGIC PARTNERS On the basis of a country screening and assessment KMD will continue to audit its strategic partners in 2012. of market conditions, KMD decided in 2011 to conduct We will also explore the possibilities for extending our an internal audit of its strategic partner in India, Mahindra CSR work to include India together with Mahindra Satyam. Satyam. The audit was carried out by KMD’s own audit team. No breaches of the UN Global Compact’s ten principles were identified, and conditions were satisfactory in terms of KMD’s other focus areas. 29 SUPPLY CHAIN RESULTS AND GOALS Focus area Results in 2011 Goals for 2012 Corporate Ethical code of conduct Whistleblower scheme compliance KMD introduced an ethical code of conduct KMD will introduce a whistleblower scheme for its employees focusing on corporate as soon as a permit is received from the compliance in seven areas: anti-corruption, Danish Data Protection Agency. information security, competition law, ­contractual risk management, intellectual Ethical code of conduct ­property rights, authorisations and document All of KMD’s employees will complete the management/storage. e-learning course in the ethical code of conduct. KMD’s employees undertook an e-learning course in the ethical code of conduct. As at 31 December, 79.6% of the workforce had completed the course. All employees are now required to comply with KMD’s code of conduct under their employment contracts. Partnerships Code of conduct for suppliers Best practice KMD held a number of workshops to provide KMD will introduce general guidelines a basis for further collaboration with suppliers. for collaboration with suppliers on best practices. KMD will enter into agreements with hardware suppliers on the take-back and environmentally friendly destruction of ­hardware. Transparency Supplier audit Code of conduct for suppliers KMD conducted an audit of its strategic KMD will introduce a separate code of supplier Mahindra Satyam and found no conduct for suppliers based on the ten irregularities in relation to the ten principles ­principles of the UN Global Compact. of the UN Global Compact. UN Global Compact KMD will conduct audits of strategic suppliers based on risk assessments in relation to the ten principles of the UN Global Compact. 30 KMD’S CSR REPORT 2011 Editorial group: Corporate Communications, KMD Design: BGRAPHIC Photos: Jesper Ludvigsen Proofreading and English translation: Borella projects WANT TO KNOW MORE? Keep up to date with KMD’s CSR efforts at www.csr.kmd.dk. We always value feedback and you are very welcome to contact us with your comments or questions. Write to us at samfund@kmd.dk. KMD BALLERUP HERLEV ODENSE ÅRHUS AALBORG Denmark www.kmd.dk Lautrupparken 40-42 Hørkær 18, 3 Niels Bohrs Allé 185 Dusager 18 Lauritzens Plads 1 Tel. +45 44 60 10 00 www.kundenet.dk 2750 Ballerup 2730 Herlev 5220 Odense SØ 8200 Århus N 9000 Aalborg
