GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS & CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2009 & 2010 DUBAI PROPERTIES GROUP “The 1st Corporate Responsibility Report of a company that develops and manages properties, communities and destinations in the Middle East/Arab World, following the Global Reporting Initiative’s G3 Guideline” DPG COP Page 1 of 66 CONTENT 1. MESSAGE FROM THE CEO 2. EXECUTIVE SUMMARY 3. ABOUT THIS REPORT Scope Structure and benchmarking Limitations Terminology Comments 4. OUR FRAMEWORK: CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY AT DPG About DPG Our Approach to CSR Embedding CSR in our company DNA Communicating with our stakeholders Understanding our stakeholders’ expectations Reporting against a global framework 5. OUR OBJECTIVES AND PROGRESS 6. OUR COMMITMENTS GOING FORWARD 7. OUR ENVIRONMENT Planning and impact assessment Energy Water Material and Waste Emissions Biodiversity 8. OUR SOCIETY Contributing to the growth of Dubai Supporting Dubai’s communities Cultivating the importance of Volunteerism 9. OUR CUSTOMERS AND SUPPLIERS Communicating CSR systematically Applying governing principles to our value chain Advertising and selling our products responsibly Engaging with our customers Participating in business associations Ensuring data reliability 10. OUR PEOPLE Overview Ensuring our employees’ safety Influencing our construction contractors DPG COP Page 2 of 66 Taking care of our employees Committing to fair practices Ensuring meritocracy Educating our workforce Recognising achievement Communicating with our employees 11. ANNEXES Global Compact GRI Benchmarking Glossary Feedback Form DPG Leadership and History CSR Structure and Auditing Recognition DPG COP Page 3 of 66 1.Message from the CEO Dear All, The last two years have been exciting years for DPG, filled with both tremendous challenges, but also a wealth of new opportunities for the company and the people we impact through our work. In June of 2009 I was appointed by Ahmad bin Byat the Group CEO of Dubai Properties Group. It is my honour to have been chosen to lead this remarkable company and my privilege to work with all employees to build a stronger more reliable company. Responsibility forms a significant cornerstone in this new era for DPG, as we direct our efforts on building a strong and healthy company focused on delivery, reliability and value for our stakeholders. I take great pride in the fact that at DPG we are leading the real estate field in reporting on our Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) activities in this region. We are the first private corporation in the Middle East to do so with rigor and transparency, and we anticipate that others will follow our example. As of 2010, we are proud signatories of the United Nation’s Global Compact, adhering to the respective universal principles laid out by the organisation. This is only the second time that we review our CSR activities in this particular way and although much remains to be done, I am proud of our efforts to date. It is my hope and determination that in the years to come at Dubai Properties Group we will further strengthen our Corporate Responsibility Management System, in order to rapidly achieve the level of Corporate Responsibility displayed by the best companies in the world in our sector. Khalid Al Malik Group CEO Dubai Properties Group DPG COP Page 4 of 66 2.Executive Summary This is the 2nd Corporate Social Responsibility Report issued by DPG. It describes in detail the DPG Corporate Responsibility Framework and the main programs and initiatives we as a company have initiated in 2009/2010 to bring our CSR vision to life. In addition, the report lays out the progress made against our targets set out in our first report and benchmarks our company against the international standards laid out in The Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). Overall, we are pleased to report that based on our self-review according to GRI standards, we reached Grade ‘B’ in our overall efforts to becoming a best in class, responsible real estate developer in this region. In summary, we made the following progress in our CSR activities in 2009/2010 in our identified target areas: Reporting Environment Customers & Society People Suppliers  We integrated  We managed to  We established  We collected  We achieved the CR in our values ensure access to “Integrity” as 21.2 litres of blood. objective for zero fatal and strategy recycling for 100% of one of our core  We trained over accidents, for DPG  We expanded our employees. Values with 27 students in our employees. the dedicated  We recycled 34.5 kgr customers and premises in 2009  We conducted an Corporate of waste per suppliers through appraisal process for Responsibility employee in 2009,  We trained all internships. 100% of our employees. Department increased by 86% in senior managers  We supported  We trained over 930  We deployed comparison to 2008. on brokerage society by employees. our Framework  We use environmental laws, in organising a large  We covered 98% of for Corporate friendly substances cooperation with number of job openings from within Responsibility (such as Inergen) for RERA community events in 2009.  All of our fire extinguishing  We utilise a ranging from  We increased our employees systems. Supplier health related employee satisfaction conduct  We recycled over 38 Evaluation initiatives to index to 69 within 2009. themselves in line tons of office waste in report twice a recycling and  We reached 17% with our values 2009. year for our environmental analogy of women  We make  We plan to continue Suppliers initiatives. employees at Middle reference to 92 the Green Building  We received  We donated Managers Grade and 46% quantitative program in 3 major 110,650 calls, of significant amounts at Supervisor Grade, far indicators and 62 sites, one of which will which only 0.5% to the Department higher than the overall GRI indicators, comprise of 73% were complaints of Economic analogy or female  We achieved green space. Development to workforce, which is 24%. Grade B for the  We reduced by 2.4% encourage local  The analogy of local GRI Application the total energy entrepreneurism. people at senior manager Level consumption. level increased from 23%  We extended  We reduced by 7.5% in 2008 to over 47% our CR survey to the total water within 2010. include our consumption.  We spend over AED suppliers 3,400 per employee for medical insurance, doubling spending since 2008. DPG COP Page 5 of 66 3.About this Report This report describes the DPG Corporate Responsibility Framework and the main programs and initiatives Dubai Properties Group executes in order to bring our CSR vision to life. When compiling this report, we have adhered to the following principles: Scope This 2009 & 2010 Corporate Responsibility Report of Dubai Properties Group (DPG) is the 2nd Report our company issues. Data compiled for this Report was collected in the period 1/1/2009-31/12/2010 (unless otherwise indicated) and all direct activities of Dubai Properties Group (including its entities), namely master development, design, marketing, selling, after sales service for residential, commercial and retail portfolio are covered in this report. Where appropriate, we have also looked at indirect activities, such as construction activities performed by construction contractors, within DPG’s sphere of influence. Structure and benchmarking In order to benchmark our activities and progress, the Report follows the basic principles, guidelines and directives as laid out in the “Sustainability Reporting Guidelines” (publication G3, 2006) of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). Detailed benchmarking information can be found in the Annex Section of this report. Limitations The company recognizes limitations in this Report, which it intends to handle in future publications, such as: • the presentation of additional indicators and results in all sections • the validation of quantitative elements and principles by an independent institution • the presentation of objectives, for all programs described in all sections of the Report • the presentation of environmental impact of construction operations (which lies within the main responsibility of DPG’s construction contractors). Terminology We have used the following abbreviations and acronyms throughout the report: • “company”, “we”, “our”, “Dubai Properties Group”, “DP Group” and “DPG” all refer to Dubai Properties Group • “Group” and “DH” refers to Dubai Holding; Dubai Properties Group constitutes a subsidiary of Dubai Holding • “Entity” refers to a subsidiary company of Dubai Properties Group • “Report” refers to this 2009 & 2010 Corporate Responsibility Report • “CR” and “CSR” refer to Corporate Social Responsibility • Terms indicated as “II-3, V-2 etc” refer to the Area and Section of this Report (e.g. used in the GRI, Global Compact and Stakeholder Tables). For example the term “III-3” makes reference to Area III (Environment) and Section 3 (Water). Comments This Report is one of the main tools to discuss, interact and collaborate with our stakeholders, but also a means to communicate with them. For this reason we welcome comments, thoughts and indications. Kindly forward your comments to: Dubai Properties Group Corporate Responsibility, Marketing Department DPG COP Page 6 of 66 P.O.Box 500272, Dubai U.A.E. Tel.: 0097-144 352 030 E-mail: Mubadara@dubaipropertiesgroup.ae Global Compact In the following table, the correspondence between the content of our CR Report and the 10 UN Global Compact’s Principles are indicated: • Coverage of Indicators is characterized as Full (F), Partial (P), Not Reported (NR) or Not Applicable (NA). Issue Principle Report Coverage Section Human Rights 1. Support and respect protection of internationally proclaimed human rights 5,6,8,10 F 2. Ensure not to be complicit in human rights abuses 5,6,8,10 F Labour Standard 3. Recognize freedom of association and right to collective bargaining 5,6,10 P 4. Eliminate all forms of forced and compulsory labour 5,6,9,10 F 5. Abolish effectively child labour 5,6,9,10 F 6. Eliminate discrimination in respect to employment and occupation 5,6,9,10 F Environment 7. Support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges 5,6,7 F 8. Promote greater environmental responsibility 5,6,7 F 9. Encourage development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies 5,6,7 F Corruption 10. Work against all forms of corruption, including extortion and bribery 5,6,4,9 F DPG COP Page 7 of 66 4.OUR FRAMEWORK: CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY AT DPG About DPG Dubai Properties Group (DPG) is a privately owned, not listed company, with headquarters in Dubai Internet City. It was established in 2002, when it commenced operations as “Estithmaar Realty” with just four employees, with the vision of developing a world class real estate and asset management company and play a key role, not just in Dubai, but throughout the region. It started with a single project, the Jumeirah Beach Residence (JBR), acclaimed as the world’s largest single-phase residential project, with 40 towers (36 of which are residential) constructed simultaneously. In 2004, the Dubai Executive Office created Dubai Holding (DH) to manage its portfolio of projects to support Dubai’s economic, social, and industrial development. As a result, Dubai Properties evolved in 2005 into a subsidiary of DH. Further expansion of DPG took place in 2007, with the creation of retail and security subsidiaries, with the belief that customers needed complete and integrated community services. In March 2008, Dubai Properties evolved into a holding company, namely Dubai Properties Group (DPG), with the vision “to be the best partner in providing a unique lifestyle in the region”, in order to support the growing cluster of business subsidiaries, that today consolidate operations into distinct business units, under a single umbrella. In June 2009 Dubai Holding was restructured into four verticals in the areas of Property, Free Zones & Business Parks, Hospitality, and Investments. The property vertical integrated and leveraged the strengths and portfolios of Dubai Properties Group with Sama Dubai, along with TATWEER’s real estate development projects. As a result DPG: • has an enhanced and diverse portfolio • acquired a wealth of new talent and experience of new colleagues from both Sama and TATWEER, who joined various departments across DPG • develops and manages properties, communities and destinations throughout the region. Within 2009 DPG reviewed its corporate strategy, processes and procedures, being integrated into four business entities including: • DUBAILAND® • Dubai Properties LLC • Dubai Asset Management • Salwan In addition, the company has added the new corporate functions of Finance, Strategy, Compliance & Risk Management, Operations, Marketing and Real Estate. Our Approach to CSR Although we have only been reporting systematically about our CR activities since 2008, Corporate Responsibility does not constitute a recent sector of activity for Dubai Properties Group. Since our foundation, the company has sought to act as a responsible corporate citizen, believing that in order to be successful in the long term our company should create value for all our stakeholders. The growth of our company cannot be isolated from increasing the wellbeing of employees, minimising our impact on the environment, positively enhancing the market environment, and contributing to the wellbeing of the communities in which we operate. DPG COP Page 8 of 66 Embedding CSR in our company DNA The importance of responsible operation has been incorporated as an integral part in the way we manage our company, through our Vision, Values, Guiding Principles, and Competencies, Code of Conduct, Recognition Schemes and other daily practices of management we apply. Endorsement at every level: In order to make our efforts successful, it is important that our CR activities are endorsed at the highest level of our company. At DPG, the CEO is the highest ranking DPG member responsible for CR issues within the company, laying out the guidelines our company follows. These guidelines are further deployed through the suitable organisational structure our company has established, including a dedicated Corporate Responsibility Department to manage Corporate Responsibility at directional, organisational and operational level. The CR department reports to the CMO, with activities being led into the EXCOM, where direct involvement of leaders of the company takes place. A detailed description of this process can be found in Annex II of this report. In parallel, employee’s operationally responsible for various functions (e.g. Marketing, HR, Health & Safety), practically disseminate CR programs throughout our company, according to their job descriptions. Our Vision: We, the people of Dubai Properties Groups, have committed ourselves to: “Be by 2014 the most reliable real estate company, committed to on-time delivery, quality of product and value for money”. Our Strategy: In order to support this vision, our company has adopted a new strategic framework. CR plays a key role in the revised corporate strategy as CR is one of the five Strategic pillars, as illustrated below: DPG COP Page 9 of 66 Our Values: Staring November 2009, our company defined four Values, one of which is “Integrity” for our activities and operations: Our Code of Conduct: Our values are embedded in our code of conduct to guide our staff on a very practical level and bring our CR vision to life: • the Code is applicable to all our senior managers, managers and employees of all our company, including our Entities • all our employees have been briefed on the Code and are informed via concrete presentation in case its content is revised • all employees receive two copies of the Code from the Human Capital Function and return one of them, after signing it. Our Code of Conduct, among other, requires that employees: o behave honestly and with integrity o act with care and diligence o treat everyone with respect, courtesy, and without harassment o comply with all applicable laws of the country DPG COP Page 10 of 66 o serve the best interests of the community in which they operate in o maintain appropriate confidentiality about dealings that the employee has with all stakeholders of the company o comply with all health, safety and environment regulations of the company o not accept gifts which could influence their decision process (value in excess of AED 300). Briefing new employees According to a specific procedure we ensure that all new employees participate in an induction course. During this course, they are briefed on the company’s values, vision, policies, processes, Code of Conduct, Health & safety issues, as well as Corporate Responsibility practices and principles. Within 2009, 100% of employees starting within our company participated in the Induction Course. Communicating with our stakeholders We define stakeholders as individuals related to, influencing or as being impacted by our activities. We seek to engage in a systematic and regular dialogue with them, in our effort to include them in our decisions and understand their needs, in the following way: Stakeholders Engagement Shareholders • Meetings • Daily collaboration People • Organization of events (i.e. Employees) • Publications (brochures etc.) • Meetings • Employee Appraisal • Personal Development Dialogue • Corporate Responsibility Survey • Employee Satisfaction Survey Society • Organization of visits • Daily Interaction • Corporate Responsibility Survey Customers • Satisfaction Surveys • Call Centre Operation • Tower Associations • Corporate Responsibility Survey Suppliers • Attendance in sector-based associations • Meetings • Corporate Responsibility Survey Non-Governmental • Collaboration Organizations • Meetings • Corporate Responsibility Survey Understanding our stakeholder’s expectations We use an independent agency to survey a range of our stakeholders (Current Employees, Potential Employees, Potential Customers, Customers, Suppliers, Media, Others) to gauge DPG’s reputation in the community. The scope of the research was reviewed following the first survey and in 2009 was extended to include suppliers. In 2009, a total of 435 people participated in the survey. The results indicate that DPG’s activities in the CSR space are increasingly being understood and recognised by our stakeholders: DPG COP Page 11 of 66 Note: The calculation method has changed in 2009, therefore 2009 results are not directly comparable with 2007 and 2008 results. Reporting against a global framework DPG recognises the need to include reliable, complete and measurable indicators in our reporting. For this reason, we are following renowned international standards as laid out by the The Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). GRI is a non-profit organization that works towards a sustainable global economy by providing sustainability reporting guidance. GRI has pioneered and developed a comprehensive Sustainability Reporting Framework that is widely used around the world. The Framework enables all organizations to measure and report their economic, environmental, social and governance performance – the four key areas of sustainability. The Reporting Framework enables greater organizational transparency about economic, environmental, social and governance performance. This transparency and accountability builds stakeholders’ trust in organizations, and can lead to many other benefits. Thousands of organizations, of all sizes and sectors, use GRI’s Framework in order to understand and communicate their sustainability performance, and we are proud to be the first property developer in the MENA region to adhere to these standards. As we continue developing and deepening our CSR framework we intend to gradually include more quantitative indicators in our CR Report as they become available. In comparison to our first report, in this report we managed to make reference to 62 GRI Indicators, while at the same time we made reference to 92 quantitative indicators in general. DPG COP Page 12 of 66 Quantitative Data within the CR Report 100 92 76 80 60 32 29 34 40 26 26 28 24 19 20 0 2008 2010 Quantitative indicators (number) Fully covered GRI indicators (number) Partially covered GRI indicators (number) Graphs and Tables (number) Targets (number) Our main Achievements in 2009/2010  We integrated CR in our values and strategy  We expanded the dedicated Corporate Responsibility Department  We deployed our Framework for Corporate Responsibility  All of our employees conduct themselves in line with our values  We make reference to 92 quantitative indicators and 62 GRI indicators, within our 2nd Corporate Responsibility Report  We achieved Grade B for the GRI Application Level  We have set ourselves 19 Corporate Responsibility targets  We extended our CR survey to include our suppliers DPG COP Page 13 of 66 5.OUR OBJECTIVES AND PROGRESS In order to create a common understanding and direction within our company, defined what Corporate Responsibility is for us during a two day workshop conducted in July 2008. Over 20 representatives from all over DPG participated in this important event, including our entire CR Ambassador Team, and we agreed on the following definition: Our Definition of Corporate Responsibility “Corporate Responsibility is related to the way our people behave when managing the business and interacting with stakeholders. At Dubai Properties Group we aim for profitable growth, but at the same time consider the way our operations affect the world around us and are committed to take relevant actions to manage these effects. For our company, Corporate Responsibility is not only a matter of philanthropy, it is our ethical obligation to reduce the potential negative impact our operations might have and increase the possible positive impact we could have on the market, the wider community and our people.” Based on this definition, our CSR efforts fall into the following four categories which together constitute the DPG Corporate Responsibility Framework. This framework, which is based on GRI standards and is the result of an impact assessment conducted in 2008, is used to manage Corporate Responsibility in a structured and systematic way: CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY AREAS Our Environment Our Customers Our Society Our People & Suppliers We aim to minimize the We aim to positively We aim to We aim to increase the potential impact we enhance the market contribute to the wellbeing of our have on the environment, by wellbeing of the employees, by environment, by using following responsible communities we providing them a safe, less resources, recycling business practices, and operate in, by friendly and fair waste and increasing the influencing our utilising our business environment, use of sustainable suppliers, our products and skills. in which they can resources. customers and our excel. peers to do the same. OUR ACTIVITES Planning and Impact Corporate Governance Economic Impact Equal Opportunities Assessment Energy Ethical Procurement Social Investment Health and Safety Water Customer Education Volunteering Employee Development Material and Waste Responsible Marketing Emiratisation Benefits Emissions Responsible Selling Family Welfare Employee Diversity Bio Diversity Market Education Special Needs Satisfaction Product Quality Engagement Enterprising DPG COP Page 14 of 66 6.OUR COMMITTMENTS GOING FORWARD We committed We have We will Reporting to increase the reference to fully Increased by 6% increase by 10% the reference to covered GRI Indicators in our CR GRI Indicators in our CR Report. Report by 20%. to increase the reference to Indicators Increased by 21% increase by 10% the reference to in our CR Report by 20%. Indicators in our CR Report. to achieve a “B” GRI Application Level. Achieved achieve a “B” GRI Application Level, according to GRI G3.1 Guidelines. to establish a system for collection and Partially achieved establish a system for collection control of data, which are included in and control of data, which are our CR Report. included in our CR Report. to integrate a responsibility section in Achieved Develop and Manage DPG Flagship our Hewaar Employee Newsletter. – Embrace a cause. Our Environment to expand the environment data On Hold. expand the environment data measurement system to all areas and measurement system to all areas all our offices and all our offices. to develop 3 sites according to the On Hold. Green Building initiative. to certify DP LLC according to On Hold. establish an Environment ISO14001. Management system within the entities of DPG. to expand our measurement system to On Hold. introduce a Carbon Footprint construction contractors. measurement process. to continue improving our Reduced by 2.4% the total environmental performance energy consumption, by 7.5% the total water consumption and recycled 34.5 kg of waste per employee in 2009, increased by 86% in comparison to 2008 Our Customers & Suppliers to train all our employees in real estate law and regulation via RERA Our Society to expand the volunteer and blood Achieved promote further volunteering of donation programs. our people to reach at least 150. Our People to fill job openings from within, by Achieved continue filling job openings from 10%. within, by 10%. DPG COP Page 15 of 66 7. OUR ENVIRONMENT ”As an active member of our EEG CSR Network, Dubai Properties Group has always been a staunch supporter of EEG’s programs, especially in the field of CSR. As a responsible company, on the side of change and progress, Dubai Properties Group has contributed to the sustainable development of UAE in an ethical and responsible manner.” Habiba Al Marashi Chairperson, Emirates Environmental Group Our Objective We aim to minimize the potential impact we have on the environment, by using less resources, recycling waste and increasing the use of sustainable resources. Key Figures  1,850 thousand gallons of water in offices  2,261 MWh energy consumed in offices  1 entity certified with ISO14001  38 tonnes of waste recycled in 2009 Our main Achievements  We managed to ensure access to recycling for 100% of our employees.  We recycled 34.5 kgr of waste per employee in 2009, increased by 86% in comparison to 2008.  We use environmental friendly substances (such as Inergen) for fire extinguishing systems.  We recycled over 38 tons of office waste in 2009.  We plan to continue the Green Building program in 3 major sites, one of which will comprise of 73% green space.  We reduced by 2.4% the total energy consumption.  We reduced by 7.5% the total water consumption. DPG COP Page 16 of 66 Planning and impact assessment Utilising the sustainability principle in our design Our company strives to influence our society positively through our buildings. For example we review proposals of plot owners in cooperation with the Dubai zoning authority. In case the suggested plans indicate areas for improvement (on issues such as energy consumption, waste management etc.) we revise these plans and suggest plot owners follow the proposed changes to minimize operating impact. Furthermore, as civil engineering can significantly change the landscape on a temporary or permanent basis, all projects undergo an Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA), as part of the normal planning approval process. EIAs are normally conducted by the client and submitted to relevant regulatory bodies, often in consultation with stakeholder groups such as NGOs, local communities etc. At the same time, we utilise the Green Building principle in three main projects we implement, more specifically:  The Paramount (Master Plan): The Paramount is a residential community in Dubai Land District, designed to address the needs of its residents by providing an appealing and sustainable place to live, learn, and recreate.  Eco-sphere (Master Plan): The Ecosphere is designed to become a centre for education, interactive entertainment and environmental sustainability researches. It is planned with strict adherence to LEED standards, to stand out as a showcase of the latest environmental design technologies.  Sheikh Mohammad Gardens (Master Plan): The “Mohammed Bin Rashid Gardens”, will be in total 73% occupied with green spaces. Impact assessment Dubai Properties Group identifies the most important environmental impacts of its activities via systematic impact assessment, dialogue with involved parties and regular auditing. Our Entity Dubai Asset Management is certified according to ISO14001 and we are anticipating ISO14001 certification for our DP LLC Entity. It is also worth mentioning that the total amount of investments related to environmental programs in 2009 reached the amount of several million Dirhams. DPG COP Page 17 of 66 Energy Decreasing our energy consumption and emissions at our HQ One of our environmental objectives is to decrease our energy use. In order to achieve this objective, the company initially analyses its energy consumption sources, in order to focus on those energy sources which emanate the highest proportion of carbon dioxide emissions. Note: The 2008 data refer to the period August-December 2008, for DPG Headquarters. For 2009, the total energy consumption at our HQ was 2,317.6 MWh and for 2010 2,261.8 MWh (a reduction by 2.4%), which corresponds to an indirect emission of carbon dioxide of about 800 tons. It must be noted that no petroleum or oil was used in electricity generators. Our company intends to expand the measurement system to other areas, in order to gather data that will enable energy management and reduction in a more systematic and holistic way. Decreasing energy consumption for constructed buildings DPG’s developed sites require energy throughout all construction processes and in high volumes, including heating, cleaning, transportation, lighting and ventilation. For this reason, the company seeks to improve the processes of production, decreasing respectively the consumption of energy and the atmospheric pollution of greenhouse gases (such as CO2). As a first step, the company has invested in the use of District Cooling Systems for its sites. These District cooling systems consume significantly less energy than if per building cooling systems. Best Practice: Earth Day Dubai Properties Group supported the Earth Hour 2009 by powering down its headquarters at Dubai Internet City from 8.30pm – 9.30pm on 28 March 2009. Dubai Properties Groups’ subsidiaries and clients, as well as over 15,000 stakeholders across various developments, joined hands in the global initiative that witnessed the participation of over 80 countries and 1,500 cities across 25 time zones in a collective call for action on climate change. “The Walk” located at Jumeirah Beach Residence was the official focal point for this year’s Earth Hour activities in Dubai, bringing together participants from numerous governmental and private bodies, as well as all employees under the DPG umbrella for a one-hour candlelight service to raise awareness on the importance of reducing energy consumption. DPG COP Page 18 of 66 Water Influencing our sub-contractors and modernizing our HQ Having faced the issue of water shortage in the past, and unfortunately expecting it to become even more intense in the future, Dubai’s government has made water management an urgent priority. Being conscious of the responsible attitude we should be demonstrating in this the area, we recognize this problem and want to contribute to its management: water constitutes a critical component of our production processes and our products’ life cycle. Therefore, actions we take to ensure rational use and water savings are various: • Including water spillage in construction sub-contractors’ Audits. It is worth mentioning that within 2009 no significant water spillages took place. • Defining a procedure for landscape rogations. • Continuous control and measurement of consumption at our HQ. • Implementation of sensor systems in toilets at our HQ. Note: 2008 data refer to the period July-December 2008, for DPG Headquarters. In 2010 the water consumption reached 1,850 thousand gallons, a reduction of 7.5% in comparison to 2009. Managing liquid waste Dubai Properties Group, beyond the responsible use of water, seeks to minimize the impact from waste waters on the environment. These waste waters emanate from water use mainly in construction sites and are handled properly before they are channelled back into the environment. The actions we take, in order to ensure the effective management of waste water are: • At all construction sites, water management is handled according to the effective legislation and send to municipality. • In all office buildings waste water is directed to the sewage. • Annually, we analyse water, to confirm the conformity with effective legislative parameters. DPG COP Page 19 of 66 Material and Waste Recycling construction waste of our production Although Dubai Properties Group does not use recycled materials at the moment, it recognizes that raw materials are not inexhaustible. Following the principle Reduce-Reuse-Recycle, it aims to the most efficient use of the limited natural resources available, while at the same time it aims to reduce the solid waste produced, which is a by-product of all industrial processes. For the construction industry, solid waste by-product constitutes mainly of two categories: • Construction Waste (e.g. iron, concrete). • Office Waste (e.g. paper, aluminium, glass, toners). Dubai Properties Group, aims to decrease the solid waste it produces and at the same time to recycle as much as possible the waste it produces. In order to achieve this target, our sub-contractors collaborate with licensed recycling organisations and governmental institutions. Recycling office materials Despite the fact that the use of office materials (e.g. paper, toners, and domestic batteries) has an insignificant impact based on our Impact Assessment, it constitutes an operational issue which we have chosen to manage. For this reason we apply recycling programs for office paper, toners, aluminium and glass in all our offices, with all our employees having access to them. These are separately collected and forwarded to the appropriate recycling supplier. Note: 2008 data refer to the period July-December 2008, for DPG Headquarters Overall we managed to recycle over 37.97 tons of office waste in our offices, increased by 35% in comparison to 2008, with 100% of our employees having access to recycling bins. Even more important is the fact that recycling per employee increased by 86% in comparison to 2008. DPG COP Page 20 of 66 Example of Internal Communication Handling special materials responsibly DPG does not generate Hazardous waste (besides generator oil which is recycled), but rather domestic and construction waste. However, Idama being a facility Management Company administers the removal of medical wastes that is generated from its client (Dubai Health Care City). An approved waste management contractor is hired to collect and dispose this type of waste in accordance with Dubai municipality requirements. It is worth reporting that in 2009, the company did not produce any waste that is considered dangerous, according to the terms of Annexes I, II, III and VIII of the Basel Convention. Handling after delivery impact We systematically conduct a series of Focus Groups with our customers, after hand over of projects, in order to identify areas we should excel at. For example in 2008 outcomes of the Focus Groups with Jumeirah Beach Residents customers revealed their request to improve the Recycling Services in JBR and also to create a playground for children. As a result, our company decided to create a playground at the bottom floor of JBR and also implement recycling schemes for Paper, Aluminum and Glass, available for all residents at the parking ground. DPG COP Page 21 of 66 Emissions Reducing Emissions Since 2002, Dubai Properties Group, has ceased acquisition of equipment containing CFCs, which are particularly harmful for the ozone layer. Instead, it uses cooling substances which are less damaging to the environment, as they correspond to a lower Ozone Depleting Potential (ODP) rating. For example the company: • uses District Cooling Systems for its Offices • uses the more environmentally friendly R134A for its fire extinguishing systems • uses manual fire extinguishers with CO2 • uses FM 200 as a fire extinguishing material in its IT rooms. Reducing our impact from transportation Our construction materials are distributed to sites all over Dubai according to concrete specifications, which include: • Employment of trained drivers and application of a control system, for drivers, cargo carriers. • Submission of fleet vehicles to periodic controls at the Technical Control Centres for Vehicles and supply of exhaust checks. • Handling of all special waste resulting from fleet vehicles’ maintenance, through licensed institutions, for further control and recycling. Biodiversity Monitoring our impact Civil engineering and other projects can significantly change the landscape on a temporary or permanent basis. Done in a smart way, these projects can leave a positive legacy. As a starting point, all projects undergo an Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) as part of the normal planning approval process. EIAs are normally conducted by the client and submitted to relevant regulatory bodies, often in consultation with stakeholder groups such as NGOs, local communities etc. All construction project sites of our company are located in areas characterized as industrial and are not protected by the International RAMSAR Convention (convention on areas of International Importance for Dwelling for Aquatic Birds) or other conventions for the protection of biodiversity. Generally speaking, the impact our company has on biodiversity is minimal, whereas our sites create a more environmentally friendly environment for inhabitants compared to the previous conditions, which are usually desert areas. Best Practice: “The Villa Wildlife Translocation Project” The site for the Villa development, situated in “Dubailand” was originally a relatively uniform area of undulating sand sheet and sand ridges separated by sand and gravel plains, with some small areas of sabkha also existing. The natural habitants of the sand sheets included Leptadenia pyrotechnica shrubs and the development of “micro-nabkhas”. The fauna on the site included free-ranging mountain gazelle, populations of the wonder gecko (Teratoscincus scincus), smaller reptiles and small mammals. A special project was initiated called the “Villa Wildlife Translocation”. First, a thorough ecological survey was conducted, to collect the base line faunal and floral data on the area. This action was followed by a project which ensured that these animals were captured and moved to other desert areas. DPG COP Page 22 of 66 Μore specifically, in cooperation with the Emirates Marine Environmental Group, three days of trapping on the site were conducted. During these days the team systematically searched the site for active burrows and evidence of active wildlife, placed traps and checked them regularly. Smaller reptiles were either collected by hand or captured in hand nets. A total of 25 specimens were gathered, including 17 spiny tailed lizards (dhub), a false cobra, a skink gecko, 4 yellow-spotted or blue headed agama (trapelous flavimaculatus), 2 chestnut-bellied sand grouses (pterocles exusyus). These were released on a private reserve owned by the local dignitary at a site approved by Dubai Municipality for release of animals, whereas the skink gecko and the yellow-spotted or blue headed agama were transferred to the Sharjah Wildlife Center, where a breading program was underwa DPG COP Page 23 of 66 8. OUR SOCIETY CR goes beyond an organization, it is about building relations with the community and engaging your staff to make a difference. We met a lot of committed DPG staff offering their support to our projects and they gave a different and positive flavor, in an inspiring way. Ibrahim Al-Zu'bi MANJULA WHEN WILL YOU BE ABLE TO HAVE A STATEMENT Environmental advisor EDA OF THEM? IF THIS IS NOT Our Objective  To contribute to the wellbeing of the communities we operate, by utilising our products, financial size and skills. Key figures  74 volunteers  434 hours of volunteering  27 students trained in 2009  47 blood donators  90% of purchases from local suppliers Our main Achievements  We collected 21.2 litres of blood.  We trained over 27 students in our premises in 2009 through internships.  We supported society by organising a large number of community events ranging from health related initiatives to recycling and environmental initiatives.  We donated significant amounts to the Department of Economic Development to encourage local entrepreneurism. DPG COP Page 24 of 66 Contributing to the growth of Dubai’s Economy As one of the biggest companies in Dubai, with continuous growth in the last years, Dubai Properties Group plays an essential role in the growth of the Dubai’s Economy. It is worth noticing, that the company: o Supports small to medium-sized enterprises, ensuring that important work is also given to smaller companies, provided of course that essential specifications placed by the company as a condition of collaboration are met. o Creates significant value of building space, with a significant proportion of our several billion AED turnover being reinvested to commercial partners (sub-contractors) in our supply chain, facilitating the economic development of our country. o Offers direct employment to over 1,000 employees and indirect to tens of thousands others, through our suppliers and customers. Dubai Properties Groups plays an essential role in the development of the region. Its construction projects enable business operations after project completion, add infrastructure to our community and enable expatriates to move to Dubai. It is worth noticing that due to our company’s operations several schools are in design stage of being build and urban streets have been developed, adding infrastructure to Dubai. Our expenditure on procurement has increased year on year since the company was established, and more than 90% of this is with local businesses. It must be noted that since local production is non-developed, local suppliers are considered those suppliers which are based in Dubai, even if products are imported. Some of our sponsorship is focused directly on encouraging entrepreneurship amongst Dubai nationals. This was achieved through a combination of donation (which reached the amount of AED 625,000 from AED 200,000 in 2008) and providing expertise to support the work of the Department of Economic Development. In parallel, we also support SME companies by inviting them to submit quotations for various services and award work to them accordingly, to grow their businesses. Some of the work awarded to these SME companies during year 2009 is described below: • Kendah Pest Control • YMCC General Trading • Al Rayan Project Contracting Supporting Dubai’s community Even if for DPG the significance of Corporate Responsibility is much broader than simply financial donations, the company recognizes the existing need for economic contribution to less fortunate social groups and organizations, via programs and actions it implements. This rational was used since the establishment of the company in 2002, initially more ad-hoc and lately more systematic. It is worth noticing, that for DPG commercial sponsorships are not considered part of Corporate Responsibility and are therefore not included in measured amount of Social Investment, which amounts several million AED per year. Aiming to implement long term and essential social activities, our company has developed a thorough plan of social contribution, which defines specific sectors of activity and is applied in a balanced way (but also according to identified needs). Some of the activities supported during 2009 and 2010 are listed below:  Hag El-Leilah 5th August 2009: Sweets and chocolates were distributed with the occasion of this traditional custom where children go out before the Ramadan to collect chocolate, sweets, and money, from people celebrating the month of Ramadan.  World Water Week 23rd March 2009: Lecture on water consumption took place in the DPG HQ in cooperation with Dubai Water and Electricity Authority (DEWA). DPG COP Page 25 of 66  Mobile Clinic by DHCC: Dubai Properties Group, hosted Dubai Healthcare City’s ‘Mobile Clinic 2010’ at the Nuzul staff accommodations in Jebel Ali from 10-11 November as part of its ongoing efforts to support the community. The Mobile Clinic’s team of medical experts provided residents of Nuzul with a comprehensive health-check that included blood pressure, blood sugar, general check-up, as well as eye and dental screenings.  Earth Hour 2010: DPG once again reiterated its pledge to safeguard the environment by actively participating in Earth Hour 2010. Under the initiative of Mubadara (DPG CR) the organization joined hands with diverse stakeholders to combat global warming, the greatest threat humanity has ever faced. DPG headquarter building switched off its lights during the highly symbolic earth hour, while lights at the plaza level of The Walk at JBR were also turned off to mark the world wide campaign for a sustainable tomorrow.  National Day for Environment 4th February 2010: DPG Corporate Responsibility (CR) department in conjunction with the Ministry of Environment and Water initiated a campaign to make “UAE Free of Plastic Bags . The mission was established to raise awareness among employees and community members about the harmful effects of plastic bags on human beings and the environment, possible alternatives to reduce the use of non-degradable plastic bags, and to adopt a new environment-friendly lifestyle.  Elderly Visit to Heritage village at the Walk 2010: DPG hosted “Heritage Revisited at The Walk” for the seniors from the Community Centres in Dubai and Sharjah. The evening filled with traditional activities conjured up cherished visions of a past era in the nation’s history. The elderly visitors shared with DPG colleagues their memories of life in old Dubai, taking the young on a journey through time.  Al Noor Bazaar at the Walk 2010: As an organisation firmly committed to supporting the cause of the less fortunate in society, DPG hosted a special bazaar for Al Noor Centre at Al Barza Ramadan tent at The Walk at JBR. The event allowed visitors to gain an understanding of the Al Noor Centre, which provides education and supports the rehabilitation of children with special needs. The bazaar also offered students an opportunity to integrate themselves into the community. DPG COP Page 26 of 66 DPG COP Page 27 of 66 DPG MOU signing with School Renovation in Al Quoz Documentary Film Festival Al Noor Centre Visit Best Practice: Supporting works of children with special needs Dubai Properties Group announced its initiative of setting up an Al Noor Tuck Shop received an overwhelming response during its three day run at the DPG Headquarters in Dubai Internet City. Manned by the staff of Al Noor Centre for Children with Special Needs, the shop merchandised endearing art and craft works and stationary items such as t-shirts, mugs, pencil holders, and books that were designed and sculpted by the students of the centre. All proceeds from the tuck shop sale were donated to the centre. Run under the auspices of the Ministry of Social Affairs, the Al Noor Centre is committed to helping special needs children from infancy to adulthood as part of its profound aim to successfully integrate them into mainstream society. DPG COP Page 28 of 66 Cultivating the importance of Volunteerism In our company, volunteerism is an institution. We believe that it is not only the obligation of a company to support volunteering, but moreover this practice cultivates the responsible behaviour of employees in their everyday business behaviour. Since we began measuring our volunteering activities systematically, employee engagement has in The impact of “Mubadara” and our partnership with Takatof, has increased the number of people involved in CR related activities from 20 in 2007 to over 140 during 2009. Therefore, within 2009 we conducted a number of activities, such as:  DPG CR Ramadan Events: DPG Corporate Responsibility team has lined up a host of activities to mark the Holy month of Ramadan, a time to emphasize the importance of compassion and solidarity.  Ihsan Center 24th June: Employees from Dubai Properties Group visited Al Ihsan Charity Centre to extend support to under privileged Women. Dubai Properties Group handed over financial aid to help establish a tailoring centre where divorced and widowed women can earn a livelihood by working within a safe and secure environment.  Day 4th Feb: Group of Mubadara Volunteers visited the cancer patients in Dubai hospital in the occasion of the World Cancer Day.  World Environment Day 5th June: Emirates Diving Association (EDA) – one of the main Environmental partners of DPG – invited DPG employees to mark the World Environment Day by attending a movie night of a short documentary film from the Journey to Planet Earth series called ‘The State of the Ocean’s Animals’, which is narrated by Matt Damon.  Can Collection drive at DPG: Seeking to affix the vibrancy of team spirit to the campaign, Mubadara conducted a competition wherein all colleagues could aggregate their individual collection with that of colleagues in their department. Following, cans collected from each department were dropped off at the Collection Point (Ground Floor, Lift lobby, DPG HQ), where the collection was weighed to determine winners.  Al Noor Bazaar at DPG HQ: DPG hosted a special bazaar for Al Noor Centre at its headquarters, in order to encourage its employees’ to support the society with different causes.  World Water Day: We communicated to DPG employees documents with facts and figures about the World Water Day that has a title this year of Clean Water for a Healthy World. DPG COP Page 29 of 66  Nokia Recycle mobiles: DPG took part in the Mobile Take Back Campaign 2010, a joint recycling initiative of Emirates Environmental Group and Nokia Mobile, as part of its Corporate Rresponsibility focus on responsible growth. Electronic gadgets were deposited so that they may be delivered to proper disposal systems. A recycling bin was also placed at the lift lobby on the ground floor, at DPG Headquarters.  Clean up the World: DPG employees participated in ‘Clean Up The World’ campaign, which was launched at The Walk at JBR this week, a fitting demonstration of our organization’s commitment to social responsibility.  Wellness Healthy Day: As part of its on-going initiatives related to safeguarding and enhancing employee health, Mubadara (DPG CR) brought a lecture on cardiovascular diseases, “Fight Obesity and Save your heart” at DPG headquarter building on 18 March, 10 am – 1 pm.  World Cancer Day: DPG marked World Cancer Day through awareness session, “Cancer can be prevented too”. Objective was to safeguard lives through an informative session on cancer prevention organised in association with Friends of Cancer Patients (FOCP), an organisation which aims to promote awareness of the disease and offer support to those struck by the disease. The session also included a face-to-face with cancer survivors who shared the significant details in their fight with the disease. Informative brochures, leaflets, Self-examination pack for breast cancer detection and privilege vouchers on selected consultation/ services courtesy Zulekha Hospital were distributed at the venue.  Iftar Day at Nuzul: DPG organized a memorable Iftar evening for residents of Nuzul, DPG’s Skilled Labour Accommodation launched this year. DPG leadership and colleagues came together in a unique display of the generous spirit of the holy month to realize this event through charitable contributions that brought in donations of AED 24,655. The Iftar was followed by an Islamic lecture organised by Islamic Affairs & Charitable Activities Department (IACAD) at the Nuzul community Centre. DPG COP Page 30 of 66  DPG marked No Tobacco day: DPG Corporate Responsibility team (Mubadara) rolled out focused initiatives this month to reach out to the community and internal stakeholders, equipping them with critical tools to enhance lives. As part of their initiative to reach out to the community and society at large, DPG Corporate Responsibility team conducted a No Tobacco seminar and free check up at the headquarter building in June. Best Practice: Employee Visits Dubai Properties Group’s commitment is to actively participate in community-related activities, especially programs organized for the sick and the needy. Examples of initiatives taken in 2009 and 2010 are: • More than 20 employees visited cancer patients at Dubai Hospital to mark World Cancer Day 2009. The debilitating disease afflicts many people around the world and our visit was organized to increase the awareness about those suffering from this illness. By paying a visit and enquiring about their welfare, DPG employees helped bring a smile on the faces of the cancer-stricken patients. Mother’s Day on 21 March 2009 was marked with a visit to the Al Wasl Hospital’s maternity ward. The initiative, that saw the participation of a significant number of DPG employees, came as part of its corporate social responsibility programme that aims to convey the importance of family and community values to all members of the society. Visiting Cancer Patients 2010: Mubadara volunteers visited cancer patients in Dubai Hospital, as part of their focused attempts to reach out to the community and enhance lives. A group of volunteers met the young patients in the paediatric cancer ward and spent time with them in an attempt to realize brief moments of respite away from the pain. The volunteers also handed over gifts to the little ones engaged in a battle against cancer, bringing smiles to their faces. DPG COP Page 31 of 66 Cultivating blood donation In our company, voluntary blood donation programs are realized and supported systematically. In 2009 we implemented blood donation programs in collaboration with the AL WASL hospital and gathered in total 50.8 litres of blood, to support the needs of employees and their families, but also society in general. The increase in participation was also a result of our decision to offer free thalassemia screening for all employees, after November 2008. Welcoming visits in our installations Every year, we respond to demands of our Stakeholders (Schools, Universities, Institutions etc) and provide students with the opportunity to be trained within our company for 8 weeks, during the summer and at the same time increase their earnings. In 2009, 27 students were trained in various departments of our company, while in 2010, 2 students received an internship and 2 more received assistance for their college projects. DPG COP Page 32 of 66 9. OUR CUSTOMERS & SUPPLIERS “We have been dealing with Dubai Properties Group since more than 4 years and have been receiving very prompt and positive responses starting from originator of enquiries, tendering, procurement and finance. We are extremely happy to deal with the very professional and friendly officials of Dubai Properties Group.” Vinod Korwar DYNATRON SYSTEMS LLC Our Objective  We aim to positively enhance the market environment, by following responsible business practices, and influencing our suppliers, our customers and our peers to do the same Key Figures  300 suppliers  110,000 customer calls Our main Achievements  We established “Integrity” as one of our core Values with customers and suppliers  We trained all senior managers on brokerage laws, in cooperation with RERA  We utilise a Supplier Evaluation report twice a year for our Suppliers  We received 110,650 calls, of which only 0.5% were complaints DPG COP Page 33 of 66 Communicating Corporate Responsibility systematically DPG seeks to handle communication of CR activities in a systematic way. For this purpose the company has: • Developed a CR Calendar detailing at least one CR activity every month, linked to both our CR Framework and relevant international milestones (e.g. World Environment Day) • Established partnerships with a number of key NGO’s and community groups, most notably Takatof (an NGO focused on placing volunteers into priority community projects) • Established a CR Marketing and Communication Plan, including working in partnership with the PR and marketing team to ensure CR activities receive at least one mention per month, in our internal and external communications • Established a CR page on our Internet site for external communication • Established a CR page on our Intranet site for internal communication Applying Governing Principles in our value chain Our suppliers fall into three major categories: Construction Contractors, Service and Commodity Suppliers. This categorization is based on the nature of cooperation and is further analysed based on the type. Our buyers strive to be fair to all suppliers, by providing them the same information at the same time and the same method. Our code of ethics emphasises the following aspects:  Take nothing for personal gain.  Integrity in internal & external relationships.  Rejecting improper practices and reporting to higher management.  Respect confidentiality.  Be accurate.  Be transparent during negotiation with all suppliers. To put the above into practice, our buyers strive to:  Ensure they conduct procurement processes in an ethical, fair and transparent way.  Respect the confidential information of suppliers.  Help suppliers to improve their environmental, social and ethical performance.  Develop and use guidelines for socially and environmentally responsible procurement.  Seek to purchase goods and services that reduce our impact on the environment and are made in such a way that respects human rights. Some examples of approaches taken by DPG, to materialise the above principles with regards to suppliers are:  We have developed the “Pre-qualification Document”, which is used to screen Vendors based on aspects such as quality, price, environment, health & safety practices.  We utilise a Supplier Evaluation report twice a year for our Suppliers.  We request at least 3 quotations for our acquisitions in an effort to increase transparency.  We implement a Supplier Satisfaction Questionnaire, in order for our suppliers to rate DPG on our cooperation, but also on aspects like our environmental awareness.  We have delegated EHS Advisors who conduct regular Inspections and advanced Audits against our EHS requirements set out in the contracts, with our contractors. In total within 2009, over 50 Audits and Inspections to Suppliers/Service Provider have been conducted.  We have implemented a process to recognize and reward Suppliers for their long term and operation according to our values. DPG COP Page 34 of 66 Advertising our products with responsibility Dubai Properties Group follows responsible practices for its advertising and marketing activities. We aim to ensure that our communication material respect the diversity of people in terms of age, gender, race and religion. To guarantee the above, our company’s marketing function:  delivers the outdoor advertisements to the Municipality for screening before being published  follows closely trends through the International Advertisement Agency in Dubai. Selling our products with responsibility Since 2008, we included in our web site a complete guideline on transactions with our company, in order to enable our customers to do their transactions quicker and at the same time reduce the footprint of such activities, which requires driving to our Sales Points. Best Practice: RERA certification for all employees DPG recently partnered with the Real Estate Regulatory Authority (RERA). This partnership is rooted in DPG’s desire to intensify its commitment to work on initiatives that support the development and progress of the real estate sector in Dubai. All our 229 employees in the sales, leasing and customer service divisions were trained to understand the laws and regulations of brokerage in the real estate industry. Another important topic discussed during the training is the topic on ethical behaviour practice during dealings and transactions between buyer, seller and broker. Other topics discussed include Property Registration and Transfer procedures, Rights and Obligations of Buyers and Sellers, Standard Forms of Legal Issues and an Introduction to the Owners’ Association Code of Ethics. In 2009 all our senior level managers received this training and we intend to extend the training to all employees in the coming year. Employees realised knowledge on the laws and regulations required when dealing with customers during the sale, resale and leasing of properties, helping them prepare for the requirements for transactions and make the right decisions. Engaging in dialogue with our customers Within 2008, we initiated the operation of a dedicated Customer Service Centre. The customers of Dubai Properties Group can contact the company, to ask about status of product orders, technical support or simply to make comments and proposals. Consequently, the Centre constitutes a communication point between customers and the company itself, facilitating and accelerating cooperation. The Centre is open 5 days a week from 08:00-17:00 through a dedicated toll free line, as well as through email. DPG COP Page 35 of 66 In 2010, DPG our company 110,657 calls, out of which only 520 were complaints, with a significant improvement in the service level offered, which reached 95%. At Dubai Properties Group we believe that our role is more than simply serving our customers. We believe it is our ethical obligation to inform them about issues that could improve their way of life, even on topics not directly related to our product. For this reason we invite our customers who have access to email to informative events that we organise. Examples within 2009 were:  Inviting all JBR customers to attend the JBR Walkathon, our company organised within 2009  Inviting DPG customers to join the Earth Hour event (see sections Society for details)  Preparing a ”Responsible Living Handbook”, which was distributed among customers. Best Practice: Utilising “The Walk” for Social purposes DPG strives to utilize its products to raise awareness of consumers regarding societal issues. Indicative of this commitment are the following activities: The Walk played host to a vintage car parade of 75 vehicles as part of an initiative to raise awareness on autism. Organised in association with Dubai Autism Centre, the parade was held on 2 April from 4.00pm-5.30pm as part of the third edition of its annual autism awareness month. The Dubai Autism Centre is the largest, most innovative and comprehensive non-profit organization in the UAE serving children with Autism Spectrum Disorders. A ‘Walk-A-Thon’ was organised in association with Nestlé Middle East, the regional wing of the world's biggest food group, to commemorate World Health Day 2009 drew an overwhelming response at The Walk at Jumeirah Beach Residence (JBR). The Walk-A-Thon took place along a six kilometre circular route from 6.00am to 9.00am on 11 April, with the participation of 100 DPG employees, as well as staff members from Nestlé. In addition, the initiative also brought together vast numbers of JBR residents and retailers at The Walk. The initiative finished at the starting point at the beachfront promenade, motivating a number of Dubai residents to join in the cause of raising awareness about World Health Day. The World Health Day is organised every year to observe the founding day (7 April) of the World Health Organization (WHO). A motorcycle cruise took place as part of an initiative to raise awareness on Thalassemia, ahead of the International Thalassemia Day on 8 May. Organised in association with the Emirates Thalassemia Society as part of a five day campaign, the drive-by served as a kick off initiative and drew the heightened interest of JBR residents and visitors to The Walk. A Children’s Art Competition was held over the National Day weekend, as part of the activities at the Covent Garden Market Dubai with registration commenced for children from ages 4-12. Children were invited to submit their entries with the theme ‘What I love about Dubai’. The event brought joy to children and encouraged talent development amongst youngsters. We conduct a series of Focus Groups with our customers in order to identify issues we should excel at. For example, in 2008 outcomes of the Focus Groups with Jumeirah Beach Residents (JBR) customers revealed their request to improve the Recycling Services in JBR and also to create a playground for children. As a result, our company created a playground at the Amwaj sector of JBR and also implement recycling schemes for Paper, Cans and Plastic, available for all residents at the parking ground. At the same time, we conduct every 6 months a Customer Satisfaction Survey. This process monitors our perceived performance in four distinct areas and helps us improving, being transparent and fulfilling our commitments. DPG COP Page 36 of 66 Furthermore, our reputation within the business community we operate in, is increasing steadily as indicated by the Brand Imagery Survey we conduct. Aspects like reputation, supporting growth and trust are increasing or performing sustainable well over the last years. Participating in business associations We seek an active role in organizations and institutions that are related to corporate and sector based issues, promoting at the same time the principle of Corporate Responsibility. For this reason, we participate in institutions and associations, such as: • the Emirates Environmental Group (EEG) • the TAKATOF volunteering organisation • the Emirates Diving Association • the Dubai Autism Centre • the Al Noor Training Centre for Children with Special Need • the Dubai Club for Special Sports • the Rashid Paediatric Therapy Centre. Ensuring data reliability The data protection policy we apply defines the suitable use of Data and Systems by our company’s employees and includes requirements and obligations for the protection of data and systems, which are common for all users within the company. These requirements are described in our Code of Conduct. All Information Systems (and any data or messages stored, created, sent or received through them) are company property, while the responsibility and obligation to ensure that the systems are used properly, lies with each user. The result of these practices is that within 2009 no substantial complaints for privacy or lost data by customers were observed. Our company for the time being does not seek external assurance for its CR Report. It however has decided to check the compatibility with the GRI application levels and consider assurance for its CR Report in the commencing years. DPG COP Page 37 of 66 Best Practice: Reduced Service Charges for JBR Community Salwan LLC, a property management company revised the service charges at Jumeirah Beach Residence (JBR) to AED 15.32 per sq ft with retrospective effect from September 2008. The revised services charges encompass the payment for community utilities at AED 7 and other expenses at AED 8.32. Salwan’s decision followed a successful negotiation with service suppliers after receiving an approval from the Real Estate Regulatory Authority (RERA). The company aimed to ensure delivering high quality services in maintaining the common areas across the projects, as well as the indoor car-park for 12,000 automobiles, landscaped areas, district cooling plant, bridges and infrastructure works within the development. DPG COP Page 38 of 66 10. OUR PEOPLE “Working at Dubai properties Group has enriched my work experience and opened new doors for opportunities and challenges. Being a member of this family gave me a sense of pride and accomplishment that has both helped me move forward during tough times and looked at things always from a new perspectives.” Bana Kazem, Director Marketing Our Objective We aim to increase the wellbeing of our employees, by providing them a safe, friendly and fair business environment, in which they can excel. Key figures  1,051 employees  35 years of average age  1,363 days of training  7 million AED for health cards  49 countries, our employees come from Our main Achievements  We achieved the objective for zero fatal accidents, for DPG employees.  We conducted an appraisal process for 100% of our employees.  We trained over 930 employees.  We covered 98% of job openings from within in 2009.  We increased our employee satisfaction index to 69 within 2009.  We reached 17% analogy of women employees at Middle Managers Grade and 46% at Supervisor Grade, far higher than the overall analogy or female workforce, which is 24%.  The analogy of local people at senior manager level increased from 23% in 2008 to over 47% within 2010.  We spend over AED 3,400 per employee for medical insurance, doubling spending since 2008. DPG COP Page 39 of 66 Overview Our company employs directly 1,051 employees, while our operation creates indirectly tens of thousands more work positions, contributing to the development of Dubai. All of these employees (with an average age of 35), work on a full time contractual basis. The trend in number of employees has decreased significantly within 2009, due to the financial crisis, which resulted a downsizing of our company by 646 employees (232 of which resigned). Consequently, the leave percentage increased within 2009, without however remarkable differentiations in the percentage of leaves, according to age, gender or region of employment. It is important to stress that the number of employees stabilised within 2010. DPG COP Page 40 of 66 Developing U.A.E. nationals For DPG, development of local nationals is an important objective, as the percentage of people from other countries working in Dubai has significantly increased in the last years. Although this practice is unique to our region and not common in most countries around the world, it is necessary to cultivate the continuous development of our state and facilitates a stable business environment. Our policy was created in 2006 when DPG introduced a National Development function within the Human Capital Function. The team’s original focus was on UAE national university graduates who underwent one of two concurrent internal programs called Etqan and Tatweer for Bachelors and Diploma degree holders respectively. In parallel a respective Committee was formed consisting of company representatives. To secure future UAE national employees our company systematically:  offers work experience to students as summer trainees and work placements  works with Tanmia and Mawared to increase the percentage of high school and university graduate employees who are UAE nationals  organises our own recruitment day to further boost UAE nationals. As evident in the above graph, our company managed to increase the ratio of local people within the company. For example at the Senior Manager level, the analogy of local people increased from 23% to over 47%. Best Practice: ‘DPG Arts Committee’ Nurturing Local Talent DPG announced the formation of the ’DPG Art Committee’ a four member group that works towards identifying and promoting innovative initiatives which contribute and enrich the art, heritage and cultural landscape of the UAE. The committee, the first across the entire Dubai Holding group, unveiled its year-long calendar of events, following a visit to the Al Bastakiya heritage site in Dubai. The objective is to promote art through fostering emerging talent and enriching the wider community of residents in Dubai who represent various cultures and nationalities. Creating a multi-cultural environment Dubai Properties Group aims to develop a multi-cultural business environment while simultaneously making sure there is a decent number of Emiratis represented (see Emiratisation section). This diversity supports both the objective of an innovative workforce (gathering good practices from around the world), as well as bringing different societies together (supporting understanding of people and cultures from around the world). The number of countries our employees originate from has slightly increased from 46 in 2008 to 49 DPG COP Page 41 of 66 countries in 2010, indicative of our multicultural policy, while the spread of nationalities has remained largely the same. Ensuring our employees’ safety At Dubai Properties Group our employees’ Health and Safety is our first priority. The eradication of accidents and the creation and maintenance of a workplace environment in which risks have been identified, understood and eliminated is of utmost importance to us. In order to achieve the above objective we take the following action:  All workplaces are assessed according to the Estimates of Professional Risks, a written tool which helps us to identify issues and initiate change.  Our Entity DAM is certified according to OHSAS 18001 for Health and Safety at the Workplace.  All sites and offices have emergency plans to prevent, mitigate and manage foreseeable health and safety emergencies.  Each function has appointed a Health, Safety and Environment Champion, who has been comprehensively trained to support them in embedding HSE into their day to day operations.  Our company notifies responsible authorities about all accidents, according to respective legislation.  On a rotating basis sites and offices have emergency drills on a regular basis DPG COP Page 42 of 66 The result of all above activities is visible in the following table, where incidents related to Health and Safety for the last years are presented: Number of First Aid Accidents in Number of Incidence Rate Frequency Rate DPG Employees Lost Time Fatal Injuries (LTI) Total Average Losses in Year in Subnumber of Number of DPG Contractors Work Hours Employees Employees (absence > (LTI)(1000)/ 1day) (LTI)(100000)/ Numbers of (absence < 1 day) Number of hour Employed worked Personnel 2007 0 0 0 0 0 4.200.000 2.300 2008 0 0 0 0 0 3.010.000 1.700 2009 0 50 0 0 0 2.671.920 1.110 2010 0 45 4 3,81 0,16 2.517.480 1.049 Influencing our construction contractors Although our construction sub-contractors are independent entities, our company recognises the responsibility to teach them in best practice. For this reason, a number of programs have been implemented:  Starting in 2008, EHS issues are systematically (rather than ad-hoc) integrated in our sub-contractors Contracts.  On all construction sites, medical units exist to provide first aid and facilitate occupational doctor visits.  We have delegated EHS Advisors who conduct regular Inspections and advanced Audits against our EHS requirements set out in the contracts, addressing our sub-contractors. In total, within 2009 over 50 Audits and Inspections to sub-contractors have been conducted. Number of First Aid Accidents in Number of Incidence Rate Frequency Rate Sub-Contractors Lost Time Fatal Losses Injuries (LTI) Average Total number Year in Subin SubNumber of of Work Hours Contractors Contractors Employees (absence > (LTI)(1000)/ (LTI)(100000)/ 1day) Numbers of (absence < 1 day) Number of hour Employed worked Personnel 4 2.349 113 2,91 0,15 2007 74.541.332 38.823,61 DPG COP Page 43 of 66 5 7.976 69 1,30 0,07 2008 101.551.698 52.891,51 2 3.609 19 0,92 0,05 2009 39.828.167 20.743,84 1 983 0 0,00 0,00 15.116.697 2010 7.873,28 Based on the analysis of the Incident Rate and Frequency Rate (two internationally used Safety Indicators), the conclusion is that the number of accidents has stabilized, however the severity level has dropped significantly, as a result of personal protection means, while the frequency rates achieved are comparable with industry sectors like production units. Our company is determined to do whatever possible within its sphere of influence, to affect these figures positively. For this reason, our company adopted the Dubai Holding Construction Risk Management Guidelines (CRM) and is implementing it in all its Construction Projects. The CRM is based on the UK CDM 2007 and has been modified to suit the needs of Construction Projects in our region, in order to identify hazards early on, so they can be eliminated or reduced at the design stage and the remaining risks can be properly managed. The CRM, which will be the umbrella of all HSE initiatives in 2009 to improve the HSE Performance in all of our construction sites has the following features:  It sets new HSE responsibilities for us as a Client, our Project Management Companies, our Project Consultants/Designer and also our Construction Contractors.  It covers all phases of construction from Project Design Stages to Demolition.  All related personnel from our Project Management Companies and also Contractors will be trained on it.  Regular Audits of construction sites will be performed in order to verify and evaluate their compliance with the CRM Requirements.  Contractors will be required to provide monthly HSE Reports that include HSE Accident & Incident Statistics, Near Misses, HSE Training, Tool Box Meeting, HSE Inductions etc. Taking care of our employees Our company provides all our people with medical insurance, irrespective of their Grade. Through this program employees can perform medical examinations (doctor visits, tests, dental care, and maternity) with a minimal fee, in an effort to contribute to the quality of their life, both within and outside the workplace environment, beyond the relevant legislative and regulatory frame. Dubai Properties Group offers all employees a number of benefits beyond legislation. Such benefits are for example the following:  Free medical insurance.  End-of-service benefits scheme, which exceeds labour law requirements.  Free annual air ticket for expatriate workers, which are also expanded for an eligible deputy, irrespective of the spouse’s position.  Pension scheme which has been extended to cover 100% of the benefit, rather than the 75% legislated.  7% discount on property acquisition.  8 working days study leave (for employees studying).  Expansion of maternity leave from 40 days to 60 days, for both locals and expatriates. Dubai Properties Group considers the cohesion of our employees as an important factor of success. For this reason, it facilitates socializing of our people, such as for example during The Family Day held in 2009. DPG COP Page 44 of 66 Best Practice: Breast Cancer Awareness Campaign As part of its endeavour to ensure the wellbeing of our staff and raise awareness among the community at large DPG, under the patronage of Mubadara, held a one-day information session on breast cancer, on the world Breast Cancer Day. At this event counselling and complementary mammogram screenings were offered by the Dubai based Manchester Clinic, while fashion store “Sauce” raised funds for breast cancer patients through sale of their bags and cup-cakes. The session ended with the experts taking questions from the attendees and clarifying their concerns on the appropriate way to deal with breast cancer. The lecture was also delivered in Arabic by a member of the Health Education and Behavioural Science Section at the Department of Health and Medical Services (DOHMS). It must be noted that over 3,000 of our customers were informed and invited to the event by our Customer Services department. Best Practice: Taking care of employees health DPG organised an eight-week Summer Challenge, a healthy lifestyle campaign that saw the participation of about 75 employees in various contests for getting in shape and losing weight. Organised in collaboration with The City Hospital (the first multi-disciplinary hospital at Dubai Healthcare City (DHCC)), the Summer Challenge offered complementary weight monitoring and check-ups for blood pressure, body mass index (BMI), and sugar levels. Conducted by dedicated specialists from The City Hospital, the campaign also included lectures for employees while a physical therapist held one-to-one support and counselling sessions. As the Summer Challenge Champion, the first prize winner Jameel Moidheen lost 14.9kg during the two month initiative, dropping 4.3 points on the BMI. The second prize winner Maha Majid lost 6kg, dropping 2.3 points on the BMI, while the third winner Mohamed Ashraf lost 3kg and dropped 1.4 points. The DPG Summer Challenge provided a platform to encourage employees to change their daily routines, eat healthier foods and exercise regularly. It helped employees endorse a healthy lifestyle and build a positive environment within the organization, highlighting key workplace qualities such as self-confidence, productivity and constructive attitude. Taking care of our employees’ families Our company follows the Emarati Value, which places priority emphasis on families. For this reason, we have implemented the following programs, which support not only our employees, but moreover our employees’ families. More specifically: o Educational benefits are available to all employees’ children. o Medical insurance legally required for employees, is extended to all employees’ dependants (for grade 3 employees and above). o Education of children (for grade 5 employees and above) is offered. o A number of events take place, such as the Family Day, an open day for DPG employees and their families, with activities for all family and children. It must be noted that all our employees benefit from these programs. These improvements have resulted in a doubling of DPG’s spend on medical insurance in the last years AED 3 million (2006) to AED 7 million (2010). Consequently the percentage of spending per member (employees and dependants) has reached 3,400 AED in 2010. DPG COP Page 45 of 66 Committing ourselves to fair business practice Our Policy for the workplace reflects our values and our commitment not to make any discrimination based on race, religion, colour, origin, age, special needs, sexual orientation, political beliefs, gender or family status in any decisions related to employment (e.g. discrimination of wage based on gender). It is worth mentioning that within 2009, no discrimination incidents were reported at Dubai Properties Group. Dubai Properties Group respects the internationally recognized principles of human rights, which are set within the UN’s Declaration of Human Rights and within the ten UN’s Global Compact Principles. Based on the above principles, we are committed not to proceed with employee engagement of individuals which are below the 18th year legal work age limit, as defined by the Dubai labour legislation. We also commit ourselves that we will not tolerate coercive work on our premises. At the same time, we anticipate our suppliers not to employ individuals below the legal work age, or to tolerate potential physical harassment, exploitation, or use of coercion on any of their premises. We intend to address this issue more formally by assessing the option to include the topic in our contracts (see section V-2). Respecting freedom of association Our company’s policies are linked and follow the local Labour Law. Associations are accepted to the extent they do not overstep the boundaries of the culture and tradition our country and the region. Currently, there is no employee association at DPG and to our knowledge there has never been any effort made to establish such an association. Dubai Properties Group respects the right of employees to participate in employee associations and to discuss through their representatives topics of reciprocal interest, within the local legislative environment. Ensuring meritocracy Our company offers all employees the same chance for career advancement within the company, promoting mainly from within. Based on this policy, the company encourages covering empty job positions from within through internal candidates. This way, the company supports the development and growth of its employees, provided that their qualifications correspond to the job position requirements. DPG COP Page 46 of 66 As a result of this policy, 98% of all job openings announced within 2009 were covered by internal candidates, including the candidates from merging companies Tatweer and Sama Dubai. The corresponding figures for 2010 were reversed, due to the very small number of new hirings (11 in total) as the result of the crisis related fluctuation. In terms of gender equality, out of 24% women in total, 17% of are at Middle Managers Grade (Grade 7b-6) and 46% at supervisor level, with 31% in higher management roles. The compensation and benefit plans of our company are designed to mirror market trends. The pay structure of the company is derived based on feedback from surveys, market trends, company pay policy etc. Each employee is designated in alignment with the company’s job grading system and salaries are kept in line with an approved salary structure. As a result, our compensations are above the legal limit and they ensure competitiveness of compensation packages, and at the same time support the principles of equal opportunity and transparency, setting no discrimination per company entity, family condition, gender, origin, nationality etc. of employees. Salary raises are based on achievement of agreed annual individual objectives, as well as on achievement of team objectives. In parallel, all employees participate in bonus programs according to their performance, in relation to agreed objectives. DPG COP Page 47 of 66 Educating our workforce Dubai Properties Group invests systematically in planning specialized educational programs which cover the needs of employees, regarding both technical, as well as management skills. Educational programs can be divided in the segments of soft skills, technical skills, health & safety, quality and business excellence. In 2009, we materialized 2,401 days of education, which correspond roughly to 2.18 days of education for each employee, while the corresponding figures for 2010 were 1,363 and 1.31 respectively, with a significant increase in number of participants, which reached 931. Appraising our employees All employees working for the company for more than 45 days receive a formal appraisal, by their supervisor in order to review performance and develop all our employees. Also, a Personal Development Dialogue (behaviour oriented) is carried out on an annual basis, in order to link the individual performance objectives, with employees’ department objectives. This way, our company conducts a gap analysis, identifying areas of improvement for employees and streamlines related training needs. DPG COP Page 48 of 66 Best Practice: High Potential Leaders Program Dubai Properties Group believes that exceptional leaders are its sustainable source of competitive advantage. This has been the motivating factor behind the High Potential Leaders programme, which reflects DPGs strategy to build the capacity of employees who demonstrate outstanding abilities for assuming senior roles within the organization and contributing to shaping the future success of Dubai Properties Group. Dubai Properties Group celebrated this year the successful graduation of 12 employees from its High Potential Leadership (HPL) development programme. An intensive one-year course, HPL focuses on the development of effective leadership. Employees within the HPL programme undergo challenging team projects, as well as highly focused local and international training to sharpen their professional competencies and leadership capabilities. Hashim Al Dabal, Executive Chairman, Dubai Properties Group, awarded certificates of competition to the graduates at a ceremony held at the Business Bay Sales Centre. In the dynamic environment our company operates in, it is especially important for our employees to receive recognition of their efforts by our company’s management. We use a number of approaches to reward and recognise our employees, within the frame of strengthening meritocracy. Such approaches are: Best Practice: IJADAH Best Employee Awards and Star Awards People have always been our organisation’s most precious asset. DPG has deployed diverse awards under Ijadah, the Reward and Recognition scheme, to acknowledge and reward employees for their valued contribution towards realising organisational goals. DPG Star Awards have proven to be an excellent way to highlight winning performances of colleagues. Apart from acknowledging dedicated contributions, this initiative is also a good way to foster bonds and enhance relationships at the workplace. The award, which is based on successful demonstration of value based behaviour, was first launched in 2009. Until today, 97 DPG employees have been recognised for unique contributions. The proud winners of Cycle 1, 2009 were: Noura Al Nsour (DPG), Fairoz Idris (DAMC), Meredith Roomes (Dubai Retail), Nashaat Mohammed (DP LLC), Danish Butt (Injaz), and Muna Al Ayali (Salwan). Communicating with our employees Aiming to brief our employees systematically and regularly on the activities of our company, Dubai Properties Group has implemented a series of communication processes, which in brief are the following:  Corporate information is regularly displayed on dedicated boards, on all company premises.  An internal magazine is published on a bi-monthly basis, which presents policies, processes, decisions, actions and programs of our company, but also news and achievements of our People. The magazine is distributed free of charge on all Dubai Properties Group premises. DPG COP Page 49 of 66 Our first attempt to create an employee suggestion system was in 2005, named Afkar. It was reviewed after a year of operation using benchmark information from our sister company TECOM and externally from DUBAL, which has the pioneering and leading suggestion scheme in Dubai. Following this, the existing scheme was re-launched as “Afaaq” in 2007 with clear-cut and user friendly processes and procedures of creating, evaluating and implementing suggestions. The suggestion scheme has been communicated to all staff, accompanied by an official booklet explaining the scheme during awareness campaigns and information given to new joiners during their induction. Awards are given out in the following categories, quarterly and annually:  Best annual suggestion  Best people suggestion.  Best business suggestion.  Best society contribution suggestion.  Best Afaaq support award.  Best departmental participation award. Suggestion providers are recognised for their winning suggestion by senior management at gatherings attended by other employees and management. All suggestion providers also receive rewards for suggestions that they make, whether or not they score the highest points in any suggestion category. Rewards may be monetary or gift items, the choice lies with the employee. Within 2009, 139 suggestions were proposed by our employees and it is also worth mentioning that 3 of these suggestions were related to Corporate Responsibility. The significant drop in figures of 2009 is attributed to the corporate downsizing which took place. DPG COP Page 50 of 66 Best Practice: DHDA and Dubai Quality Awards DPG hosted a gala event honouring employees for contributing to the organisation’s performance excellence that has received industry wide recognitions from the Dubai Economic Department-led Dubai Quality Award and Dubai Human Development Award (DHDA). The celebration took place at the Business Bay Sales Centre in the presence of top DPG management. Dubai Properties’ Group’s Ijada initiative aims to reward and benchmark employees against the organisation’s six guiding principles of excellence, innovation, commitment, integrity, hard work and speed. In addition to our Afaaq scheme, since 2006, Dubai Properties Group carries out employee satisfaction surveys and takes corrective actions based on the outcomes. After presenting the results of the survey executed in 2008, roughly 250 employees participated actively in work teams, aiming to create action plans and find solutions to identified areas of improvement. Participation of employees in the 2009 survey increased to 67% from 55% in 2008, while the Employee Satisfaction Index slightly increased by one unit, in comparison to 2008. DPG COP Page 51 of 66 10. Annexes Summary Table AREA 2008 2009 2010 OUR COMPANY & CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY Quantitative indicators within the Report (number) 76 ΝΑ 92 GRI indicators within the Report (full + partial / number) 31+30 ΝΑ 34+28 CR Ambassadors (number) 11 9 ΝΑ HSE Champions (number) 35 15 ΝΑ OUR ENVIRONMENT Water consumption (from HQ office) (th. gallons) 1,687 2,001 1,850 Energy consumption (from HQ office) (MWh) 1,306.9 2,317.6 2,261.8 Office Waste for recycling (tn) 28.1 37.9 NR OUR SOCIETY Volunteer hours (number) 463 471 434 Employees Volunteers (number) 96 142 74 Employees’ blood donation (lt) 69.7 50.8 21.2 OUR CUSTOMERS & SUPPLIERS Suppliers (number-estimation) 300 300 300 Supplier Audits and inspections (number) 36 50 NR Local Suppliers (percentage-estimation) 90% ΝΑ 90% Regulatory fines (environment, competition etc) (€) 0 0 0 OUR PEOPLE Number of employees (number) 1,521 1,100 1,051 Fatal accidents of DPG employes (number) 0 0 0 Accidents with absence >1 of day (number) 0 0 4 Women Supervisors (%) 12 49.5 46 Hiring from within (percentage) 91 98 25 Countries of employees’ origin (number) 46 44 49 Suggestions on CR (number) 45 3 NA Cost of employees’ medical program (ml AED) 7 6.7 7,1 Training (days) 5,658 2,401 1,363 NR = Not reported NA=Not applicable DPG COP Page 52 of 66 GRI Application Level As Dubai Properties Groups we have self-assessed our reporting to be Application Level “B”, according to the GRI G3 Guidelines, as indicated below. √ √ √ Global Compact and GRI Content Indexes In the following tables, the correspondence between the content of our CR Report and the 10 UN Global Compact’s Principles, as well as the Global Reporting Initiative’s (GRI G3) Profile and Performance Indicators are indicated: • Additional GRI Indicators are highlighted in grey background, while Core GRI Indicators are within white background. • Coverage of Indicators is characterized as Full (F), Partial (P), Not Reported (NR) or Not Applicable (NA). Global Compact Table Issue Principle Report Coverage Section Human Rights 1. Support and respect protection of internationally proclaimed human rights 5,6,8,10 F 2. Ensure not to be complicit in human rights abuses 5,6,8,10 F Labour Standard 3. Recognize freedom of association and right to collective bargaining 5,6,10 P 4. Eliminate all forms of forced and compulsory labour 5,6,9,10 F 5. Abolish effectively child labour 5,6,9,10 F 6. Eliminate discrimination in respect to employment and occupation 5,6,9,10 F Environment 7. Support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges 5,6,7 F 8. Promote greater environmental responsibility 5,6,7 F 9. Encourage development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies 5,6,7 F Corruption 10. Work against all forms of corruption, including extortion and bribery 5,6,4,9 F DPG COP Page 53 of 66 GRI Context Table GRI Paragraph Summary of Aspect Report Coverage Section Strategy and Analysis 1.1 Most senior executive statement B F 1.2 Description of key impacts, risks and opportunities B, II-1A F Organisational Profile 2.1 Name of the organization I-1 F 2.2 Primary brands, products, and/or services I-3 F Operational structure of the organization (main divisions, operating I-1 F 2.3 companies, subsidiaries, joint ventures). 2.4 Location of organization's headquarters I-1 F Number of countries organization operates (and those with major I-1 F 2.5 operations or specifically relevant to TBL) 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form I-1 F Markets served (geographic breakdown, sectors served, types of I-1, F 2.7 customers). VI-1A I-1, F 2.8 Scale of the reporting organization VI-1A 2.9 Significant changes in report period (size, structure, owner) A F 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period II-5A F Report Parameters 3.1 Reporting period (e.g. fiscal/calendar year) A F 3.2 Date of previous report A F 3.3 Reporting cycle (annual, biennial) A F 3.4 Contact point for questions A, VII-5 F 3.5 Process for defining report content II-1A F Boundary of the report (countries, divisions, subsidiaries, leased A F 3.6 facilities, joint ventures, suppliers, see Protocol ) 3.7 Limitations on scope or boundary of report A F Basis for reporting (on joint ventures, subsidiaries, leased facilities, A F outsourcing) can significantly affect comparability from period to 3.8 period Data measurement techniques, bases of calculations, (assumptions, A F estimations techniques, compilation, diverge from, the GRI Indicator 3.9 Protocols) Effect and reasons of information re-statements A F 3.10 (mergers/acquisitions, change of base years, methods). 3.11 Significant changes (scope, boundary, methods) I-1, II-3C F 3.12 Table for location of Standard Disclosures VII-3 F 3.13 Policy and practice for seeking external assurance A, V-5C F Governance, Commitments and Engagement I-1, F II-3C, 4.1 Governance structure (eg BoD committees strategy or oversight) II-2A 4.2 BoD Chair also executive officer II-3C F II-3C, F II-2A BoD under 4.3 ΒοD members that are independent and/or non-executive development II-3C F Mechanisms for shareholders and employees recommendations to BoD under 4.4 BoD development II-3C F Link of BoD members, senior managers, executives’ compensation II-2A BoD under 4.5 (incl. departure arrangements) with TBL development DPG COP Page 54 of 66 II-3C,B F BoD under 4.6 Processes for BoD to ensure conflicts of interest avoided development II-3C F II-3A BoD under 4.7 Determining qualifications of BoD for guiding TBL strategy development 4.8 Mission, values, codes of conduct, principles relevant to TBL II-3A F II-3C,B F BoD procedures for overseeing management of TBL (risks, II-2A BoD under 4.9 opportunities, compliance with standards, codes, principles) development II-3A, F II-3C BoD under 4.10 Processes for evaluating BoD performance on TBL development 4.11 Whether and how precautionary approach addressed B, II-1A F 4.12 TBL principles and initiatives the organization subscribes A, V-5B F Membership in associations (industry, national/international, V-5B F governance bodies, projects, committees, substantive funding beyond 4.13 membership, strategic membership) 4.14 Stakeholder groups engaged by the organization II-4A F 4.15 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders II-4A F 4.16 Stakeholder engagement approach (frequency, type, group) II-4A,B F 4.17 Concerns raised by stakeholders and responds (report) II-4A F GRI Indicator Section Coverage ECONOMIC Goals and IV-0 F Performance Policy IV-0, I-2 F (commitment) Additional IV-1,2 F Contextual I-2 Information (success, shortcomings, risks, opportunities) EC1 I-3 P EC2 B, III-2A,B P EC3 VI-3C,D P EC5 VI-3D, IV-8B P EC6 IV-1B, V-2A F EC7 IV-7A F EC8 IV-1C P IV-1A, V-2A, P EC9 VI-1A ENVIRONMENT Goals and ΙΙΙ-0,8 F Performance Policy ΙΙΙ-0, ΙΙ-1Α F (commitment) ΙΙΙ-1A Organizational ΙΙ-1A F Responsibility (operational structure) DPG COP Page 55 of 66 Training and ΙΙ-2A,Β F Awareness VI-5A III-2C Monitoring and ΙΙ-5Α, F Follow Up (supply V-5Α,Β chain, III-1Α certifications, auditing) Additional III-1-8 F Contextual Information (success, shortcomings, risks, opportunities) EN2 III-4A F EN3 III-2A F EN4 III-2B P EN6 III-2B, 1A P EN7 III-2B P EN8 III-3B F EN9 III-3C P EN11 III-1A,7A F EN12 III-7A F EN13 III-7A F EN14 III-7A P EN15 III-7A F EN16 III-2A P EN19 III-5A P EN21 III-3C P EN22 III-4A,B, VII-1A P EN23 III-3A F EN24 III-4C F EN25 III-3C P EN26 III-1A, III-7A F EN27 NA NA EN28 VII-1 F EN29 III-6A P EN30 III-1B P LABOUR PRACTICE Goals and VI-0,8 F Performance (link VII-2 to universal standards) Policy VI-3A F (commitment, link II-1A, VI-0 to universal standards) Organizational II-3A F Responsibility (most senior position) Training and II-2A,B, F Awareness VII-5A Monitoring and V-5A,B F DPG COP Page 56 of 66 Follow Up (supply II-5A chain, certifications, auditing) Additional VI-0-8 F Contextual Information (success, shortcomings, risks, opportunities) LA1 VI-1A, 3C, 4A F LA2 VI-1A F LA3 VI-6A F LA4 VI-3E F LA6 II-2A, VI-2A P LA7 VI-1A,2A,2B F LA8 IV-2C, IV-5A F LA9 NA NA LA10 VI-5A F LA12 VI-5B F VI-1A, 3C, 4A, F LA13 IV-7A LA14 VI-3D P HUMAN RIGHTS Goals and VI-0,8 F Performance (link VII-2 to universal standards) Policy VI-3A F (commitment, link II-1A, VI-0 to universal standards) Organizational II-3A F Responsibility (most senior position) Training and II-2A,B, VII-5A F Awareness Monitoring and V-5A,B F Follow Up (supply II-5A chain, certifications, auditing) Additional VI-0-8 F Contextual Information (success, shortcomings, risks, opportunities) HR2 V-2A F HR3 II-3A P HR4 VI-3B, 4A F HR6 VI-3A P HR7 VI-3A, V-2A P HR9 IV-7A, VI-3A F DPG COP Page 57 of 66 SOCIETY Goals and V-0, IV-0,6 F Performance Policy II-1A, V-0 IV-0 F (commitment) Organizational II-3A F Responsibility (most senior position) Training and II-2A,B F Awareness V-1C Monitoring and II-5A F Follow Up (supply V-5A,B chain, certifications, auditing) Additional IV-0,6 F Contextual Information (success, shortcomings, risks, opportunities) SO1 IV-2,3,5,6,7,8 F SO2 II-3D F SO3 II-3D, II-3A, V-3B F SO4 II-3D, II-3A, V-3B P SO5 I-1, V-5B P SO7 VII-1 P SO8 VII-1 F PRODUCT RESPON/LITY Goals and V-0, V-8 F Performance Policy V-0 F (commitment) Organizational II-3A F Responsibility (most senior position) Training and V-3A,C,D,E F Awareness V-4A,B Monitoring and V-5A,B F Follow Up (supply II-5A chain, certifications, auditing) Additional V-0-8 F Contextual Information (success, shortcomings, risks, opportunities) PR1 III-1A, 2B, 7A, III-4D P PR2 VII-1, V-3A P PR3 NA NA DPG COP Page 58 of 66 PR4 NA NA PR5 V-6A, II-4B F PR6 V-3A,B F PR7 VII-1, V-3A, 5C F PR8 V-4A,5C F PR9 VII-1 F Glossary Biodiversity (or Ecosystem): The variety of living organisms in an area. Customers: The final users of Dubai Properties Group’s products. Company: Refers to Dubai Properties Group. Corporate Social Responsibility or Corporate Responsibility (CSR, CR): The voluntary engagement of enterprises to include in their corporate practices economically, social and environmental criteria and activities, that are beyond the legislative requirements and are related with all their activities, and impact on Stakeholders. Dubai Holding (DH): Refers to Dubai Holding. European Foundation for Quality Management (EFQM): A non for profit organisation, based in Brussels, which promotes Business Excellence, and within this frame also Corporate Responsibility. EFQM has more that 800 member organisations all over the world, including corporations, public institutions, universities etc. Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design (LEED): A Green Building Rating System, developed by the U.S. by the Green Building Council (USGBC), providing a suite of standards for environmentally sustainable construction. Since its inception in 1998, LEED has grown to encompass more than 14,000 projects in 50 US States and 30 countries. Solid waste: Solid by-products of domestic or industrial activity such as construction. Sustainable Development (Sustainability): The concept of aiming at economic development without undermining the potential of future generations to satisfying their own needs. World Declaration on Human Rights: This declaration was voted by the General Assembly of the UN in 1948 and defines the worldwide recognised fundamental human rights (ww.un.org/overview/rights.html). DPG COP Page 59 of 66 Feedback Form You are encouraged to improve Dubai Properties Group’s Corporate Responsibility Report, by completing this Feedback Form and forwarding it, along with comments you might have: 1. What is your impression, about the following elements of this Report? Subject: Excellent Good Neutral Mediocre Bad Sections have the right balance Important topics are covered Structure supports easy reading Texts are comprehensive Quantitative elements are complete Graphs included are comprehensive Layout is attractive/pleasant 2.What is your impression, about the following areas of this Report? Unit: Excellent Good Neutral Mediocre Bad II. Our Company & Corporate Responsibility III. Our Environment IV. Our Community V. Our Customers & Suppliers VI. Our People VII. Information about the Report 3.What is your overall impression about this Report? In comparison to other Reports: Excellent Good Neutral Mediocre Bad from Dubai from Abroad 4. Are there topics, which are not answered (or not adequately covered) in this Report; do you have questions you would like to be answered in our next Report? ___________________________________________________________________ __________________________________________________________________ 5. Are there any other comments/proposals you might have? ______________________________________________________ ________________________________________________________ 6. To which Stakeholder category do you belong? Employees-People Suppliers Society Customers Shareholders Non Governmental Organizations Other: ____________________ Please forward the form to the Personal Data (optionally): Name: _____________________________ • address: Organisation: __________________________ Dubai Properties Group, Attn. Mrs Noreen Nasralla Address: ___________________________ P.O. Box 500272, Dubai, UAE Phone/Fax: ____________________________ Email:__________________________ • e-mail: Mubadara@dubaipropertiesgroup.ae All information on this form will be used only for the evaluation of this Report, through statistical analysis. Personal data are protected, as defined by the respective law regarding private information. DPG COP Page 60 of 66 DPG Leadership and History Mr. Khalid Al Malik assumed office as the new DPG Group CEO in July 2009 (reporting to the acting DPG Chairman, which is the Group CEO of Dubai Holdings) and in October the group’s new leadership team was announced including the heads of both corporate functions and the group’s business units, as outlined below: The highest ranking governance board within DPG is the Executive Committee (EXCOM) which consists of the following members: 1. Mr. Khalid Al Malik – Group CEO 2. Ms. Ghada Aldulhalim Office of the Group CEO 3. Mr. Martin Berlin Chief Strategy Officer 4. Mr. Mohammed Al Habbai CEO of Dubailand 5. Mr.Jurgen Fischer – CEO DP LLC DPG COP Page 61 of 66 6. Mr. Billy Daly CEO of DAM 7. Mr. Saeed Bushalat CEO of Salwan 8. Mr. Iyad Abdulrahim Finance Chief Officer 9. Mr. Amjid Javaid – Senior Manager, Compliance and Risk Management 10. Mr. Arif Mubarak – Chief Operating Officer 11. Ms. Jayne Obrien Marketing Chief Officer 12. Mr. James Hemmaway – Executive Director Legal History 2002: Establishment of Estithmaar, with four employees 2004: Transformation to Dubai Properties, subsidiary of Dubai Holding 2007: Successful handover of the Jumeirah Beach Residents Project 2008: Evolvement into a Holding company, “Dubai Properties Group”, with six Entities 2008: Development of Corporate Responsibility Strategy & Framework 2009: Mr. Khalid Al Malik assumed office as the new DPG Group CEO 2009: Awarded the Dubai Human Development Appreciation Award 2009: Awarded the Dubai Quality Award 2009: 2nd runner up in Arabian CSR Award 2009: Handover Executive Towers 2009: Merging Sama Dubai & Tatweer with DPG 2010: Launch of the first leasing campaign 2010: Idama – member of DAM, being awarded the Dubai Quality Award Products & Services DPG operates major master development and construction projects in Dubai. In parallel, it offers sales services, both to residential and retail customers, as well as after sales services (such as security). Our company is seeking investment opportunities on a global scale, in order to double its investment portfolio to about AED 950 billion, over the next three years. DPG’s objective of growth increases the focus on operating responsible, as our ability to influence positively the world around us and the problems faced (such as climate change), will increase proportionately. The major categories of Products and Services offered in 2009 & 2010 are the following: • Master Development • Building Construction (via sub-contractors) • Retail Services • Security Services • Asset Management • Property Management • Facility Management Dubai Properties Group has operated some of the most innovative and large scale construction projects in Dubai. Some examples of these projects are listed below: Project Name: Project Project Size: Summary: Executive 8.7 million square feet The Executive Towers is a mixed use community development within Towers Business Bay. The contemporary design and architectural theme of the towers aim to reflect Dubai’s upscale image. Jumeirah 770 thousand square feet Jumeirah Beach Residence Beach (of retail space) is a sprawling 1.7 kilometre waterfront, considered the largest Residence single phase residential DPG COP Page 62 of 66 development in the world. The Villa 35 million square feet The Villa at Dubai Land is a residential retreat spread over 35 million square feet and offers Spanish-style villas hacienda-style residential communities. Cordoba Residenc 517,888 square feet Cordoba Residence is a quaint Mediterranean community with white-washed buildings and lush landscaping set around a central lagoon. Sharooq 7,938,607 square feet Shorooq Mirdif features spacious villas Mirduf and apartments that offer a welcome alternative for Dubai’s big families. Shorooq is a unique alternative to high rise living, keeping families grounded in a secure, high end community, away from the crowds and noise of the city. Layan 3,027,614.84 square Layan Community at DUBAILAND® Community feet Is an exclusive gated residential Community at the heart of DUBAILAND®. A luxurious enclave of 414 Mediterranean styled exclusive villas & 144 apartments with its unique lines and curves, terracotta roofs, warm colours and cobbled driveways, Layan Community is a stunning architectural concept against a backdrop of perennial blue skies. Office Park 342,870 square feet This elegantly designed office building offers some of the most spectacular views in the city. Located in Dubai Internet City, one of Dubai’s most prestigious Free Zones, Office Park boasts 325,000 sq.ft. of commercial space which can be customized to suit any requirement. Office Park provides tenants with an easily accessible, high-profile business environment, with over 1000 parking spaces and a range of 24 retail spaces. Nuzul 1,138,090 square feet Nuzul is a dedicated staff community catering to the requirements of industrial and commercial clientele. The development includes 13 buildings offering a total of 2,236 units, and features a Clinic, supermarket, Community hall, mosque and recreational facilities. Nuzul is designed to provide an enhanced lifestyle to the labour workforce. AlWaha 1,467,724.25 square Al Waha Villas is an exclusive gated residential community in the heart of feet DUBAILAND®. A luxurious enclave of 260 exclusive Mediterranean-styled villas set among rows of towering palm trees and manicured gardens. With its unique lines and curves, terracotta roofs, warm colors and cobbled driveways, Al Waha Villas is a stunning architectural concept. The residences feature 2, 3 & 4 bedroom villas with terraces that offer views of the surrounding desert landscape. Ghoroob Mirduf 3.3 million sq ft Ghoroob has changed the landscape of Mirdif with its affordable and accessible family friendly apartments. The Ghoroob DPG COP Page 63 of 66 community offers a convenient and comfortable lifestyle away from the crowds and noise of the city. Al Khail Gate Phase 1 – 7,619, 348 Al Khail Gate is an affordable residential Phase 2 8,460,197 community offering a range of flexible leasing options. Based on sustainable housing developments found throughout the world, the apartments of Al Khail Gate offer affordable living close to the heart of the city. CSR Company structure and auditing Level Dubai Holdings Dubai Properties Group Board of Directors Group CEO Group CEO Chief Marketing Direction Officer Real Estate Marketing & Corporate Responsibility, Director Organisation CR Assistant Manager Operational Operational Responsibilities DPG COP Page 64 of 66 Following Corporate Governance Principles As a result of the financial crisis the governance structure of DPG changed: the highest ranking Governance Board (called the “Board”) was cancelled with the Group CEO reporting directly to the Dubai Holding Group CEO (which is the acting Chairman), with a new Board currently under development. It must be noted that:  In the absence of the board, DPG has formed an Executive Committee (EXCOM) and the members comprise of senior most officers of DPG and its entities (see section I-1).  All employees can raise directly concerns to the CEO through the systematic CEO Coffee meetings, during which a confidential discussion of employees on a rotating basis in conducted with the Group CEO.  Our open door policy ensures that concerns are raised directly by employees.  Compensation of Executive Committee Members (see section I-1A), Directors and Managers is based on overall performance and Strategy achievement (including Corporate Responsibility aspects, see section II-3A), although at the moment Corporate Responsibility is not a separate assessment criterion linked with executive compensation.  In line with the best practise followed by multi-national corporations worldwide, DPG has established a Compliance department, which follows a strict no-deviation policy. All transactions processed have to comply with internal policies, procedures and external laws. The anti-fraud policy rolled out, educates employees of DPG working about the necessity and the ways to report fraud. Applying Internal Audit systems Since 2005, one of the company functions is a separate Internal Audit Department (which reports functionally to the Board Auditing Committee of Dubai Holding and administrational to the Group CEO), in order to increase the independence in decision making. This structure ensures the independence of the Department, but also the application of powerful systems of internal auditing. The responsibilities of the Department include the maintenance of a complete annual audit plan, for all operations of the company, with 11 Audits being conducted in 2009 and 9 in 2010 and the assessment of efficiency of audit points, as far as the company’s internal operations, application of accountant models, financing reports and management practices are concerned. The main role of the Department is to review:  Actions and judgments of management, in relation to the interim and annual financial statements and disclosures.  Internal Control Reports.  Performance of Head of Internal Audit.  Fraud investigation reports.  Corporate Governance-Risk-Compliance & Monitoring-Internal Control frameworks.  Approve Audit Plans. The Internal Audit systems we apply analyse risks, determine auditing activities and include analysis on financing questions and conformity to regulations. Our top management is explicitly committed to applying and maintaining a powerful system for internal auditing, in all company activities and functions, according to our Code of Conduct. DPG COP Page 65 of 66 Recognition Recognition of our efforts in the area of Corporate Responsibility is not merely an objective, rather it constitutes a significant honour and responsibility to be recognised by individual stakeholders and reputable institutions. It is worth mentioning that DPG has received:  Dubai Holding’s Best Employee Award to Zainab Al Rustamani and Amna Kayed, employees of DPG.  Dubai Holding Human Development Award in 2009, for its ongoing commitment to developing and nurturing national human capital and securing the emirati’s future through empowering national talents via developmental programs.  Dubai Quality Award in 2009, instituted by the Department of Economic Development. His Highness Sheikh Mohammad Bin Rashid Al Maktoum, Vice President and Prime Minister of the UAE and Ruler of Dubai, presented the prestigious award.   2nd runner up in the large company category of the coveted Arabia CSR Award 2009. DPG is the only real estate company in the GCC to win the Arabia CSR Award in the large company category bringing into sharp focus its strong commitment to Corporate Responsibility. DPG COP Page 66 of 66
