Communication on Progress UN Global Compact (COP) on 2011 Additional information is available in the referenced documents and the GRI indicators of the Sustainability Performance Report. Human Rights  When selecting employees and determining their assignment in the company, Geberit attaches great importance to qualifications appropriate to the task description. According to the  EC5 annual internal survey, no employees anywhere in the world are hired in the minimum-wage segment. This considerably reduces the risk of human rights violations. Principle 1: Businesses  Geberit has a Code of Conduct in which the company undertakes to be an exemplary, reliable and fair business partner and employer at all times for all of the people with whom it has  Code of should support dealings. As a fair partner, Geberit recognizes local, national and international laws, direcConduct and respect the protection of tives and standards, and complies with them in full. internationally  Approximately 98% of all employees were trained in the Code of Conduct in 2008. Since  HR3 proclaimed huthen, new employees receive their training as part of their job orientation. A longer-term  SO3 man rights. communication campaign for further training will be introduced at the beginning of 2012.  Sustainability strategy  Adherence to the Code of Conduct is monitored as part of an annual, binding survey of all Geberit Group companies. Verification is supplemented by internal audits on site. No human rights violations of any sort were discovered in the year under review.  DMA-HR  With respect to human-rights violations, the greatest risk for Geberit lies with suppliers, who can be influenced only indirectly. Geberit does all it can to minimize this risk and requires that business partners and suppliers comply with comprehensive standards.  The Code of Conduct for Suppliers is intended to ensure that Geberit's suppliers act in Principle 2:  Code of accordance with internal and external guidelines such as internationally recognized stanMake sure the Conduct for dards concerning human rights and the ILO core labor standards. As of the end of 2011, 603 company is not Suppliers suppliers (prior year: 563) had signed the Code of Conduct. This equates to 93% of the total complicit in huprocurement value (prior year: 90%). man rights abuses.  In 2011, the planning of audits that also include questions of human rights was expanded for suppliers with increased sustainability risks. Fifty-four suppliers, which together account for  HR2 less than 5% of the total procurement value, are affected by this measure. All suppliers in this class will be subjected to targeted audits in the next 3 years. No human rights violations among suppliers became known in 2011. Labor practices Principle 3: Businesses  No rights with respect to exercising freedom of assembly or collective bargaining as defined should uphold the in the ILO core labor standards are subject to restriction at the Geberit Group. This is verified  HR5 freedom of assoannually as part of a binding Group-wide survey. No restrictions were in effect in 2011. ciation and the  An estimated 4,000 employees, and thus around two-thirds of all employees, are currently effective recognicovered by collective agreements. Above all in Germany, Austria and Switzerland, over 90% tion of the right to of employees are subject to an overall work contract or tariff agreements. There are no col LA4 collective bargainlective agreements with the employees in the USA and China (17% of all employees). ing. Principle 4:  Geberit's exposure with respect to forced and child labor is considered low because of its The elimination of industry sector and the countries in which business activities are carried out as well as its all forms of forced high quality requirements. and compulsory  Forced and child labor are categorically rejected at Geberit. According to the annual, binding labor.  HR6 Group-wide survey, no cases of forced or child labor were discovered in 2011. Nor did any  HR7 cases become known during the course of the audits performed among the suppliers. The Principle 5: basic principles established in the Code of Conduct for Suppliers expressly include compliThe effective ance with the ILO core labor standards for the exclusion of forced and child labor. abolition of child labor.  The Geberit Code of Conduct clearly specifies how employees are to behave and how  Code of Geberit assumes responsibility as an employer in order to counteract discrimination in adConduct herence with the ILO core labor standards. According to the annual, binding Group-wide sur HR4 Principle 6: vey, no cases of discrimination were discovered in 2011. Eliminate dis Geberit has no personnel policy or employment practices providing for preferential treatment crimination with  EC7 of persons from local vicinities. respect to employment and  Protection of the principles of equality is anchored in the Geberit Code of Conduct. This occupation. includes the prohibition of discrimination against any employee on the basis of gender. Fair and equal pay for men and women is a matter of course at Geberit, as was verified and  LA13-14 documented in 2011 as part of the annual, binding survey. The proportion of female employees as of the end of 2011 was 29%; in upper management this figure was 5%. Communication on Progress UN Global Compact (COP) on the financial year 2011 1 Environmental protection  With the precautionary approach in mind, the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors  4.11 has implemented an extensive system for monitoring and controlling the risks linked to the business activities.  Geberit has long stood for a high level of environmental awareness and been committed to environmentally friendly, resource-efficient production as well as to the development of water-saving and sustainable products. Environmental criteria are considered in all  Code of Principle 7: decision-making processes. A demonstrably high standard is achieved thereby which Conduct Businesses often greatly exceeds statutory requirements. should support a  Climate change is influencing the availability of water resources throughout the world.  1.2 precautionary approach to enviWith its water-saving products in the sanitary industry, Geberit is using opportunities to  EC2 ronmental chalcontribute towards the diligent handling of water and thus to make a name for itself as a  EN6 leader in sustainability. In addition, saving water also means saving energy. lenges.  In 2011, CO2 emissions fell by 0.8% to 76,903 metric tons. CO2 emissions per sales  EN16 (currency adjusted) have even improved by 9.4%. Geberit thus remains on course with respect to its long-term CO2 strategy.  EN18  Approx. CHF 1.2 million was spent on environmental protection and preventative environmental management in 2011. This involved external advising and training, external  EN30 certification and human resources expenditures.  Since early 2007, Geberit has had a combined group certificate for quality and environment in accordance with ISO 9001 and ISO 14001, which ensures uniform standards at  DMA-EN 15 production sites, including the sites in China and the US. The annual preparation of corporate eco-balances has been an established part of Geberit’s environmental strategy since 1991. In 2011, Group-wide absolute environmental impact increased by 0.4% over the prior year. By contrast, environmental impact per sales (currency adjusted) has improved by 8.3%. This means that the target figure of 5% has been considerably exceeded. Principle 8:  Geberit places its faith in energy saving and energy-efficiency: In addition to the insulaUndertake initiation of buildings, important measures include the continuous modernization of machines, tives to promote increasing the efficiency of production installations, the optimization of cooling systems  EN5 greater environthrough the use of natural ambient cold (free cooling), improved use of waste heat (heat mental responsirecovery) as well as the careful use of compressed air. bility.  In 2011, the use of green electricity was increased by 4 GWh to 13 GWh.  EN18  Thanks to targeted savings measures, fresh water consumption has been reduced by  EN8 40% since 2006 and has now been kept at a low level in 2011.  Geberit regards Eco-design as the key to environmentally friendly products. Beginning with the development process, the most environmentally friendly materials and functional principles are used, risks are minimized and high resource efficiency is pursued. Eco EN26 design is also implemented in product modifications and technology projects. Every new product is to be better than its predecessor with respect to environmental aspects.  Geberit has been placing its faith in environmentally friendly products for some time. In 2011, the entire dual-flush and stop-and-go “fleet of cisterns” produced since 1998 saved  1.2 approximately 1,700 million cubic meters of water.  Geberit's innovative activities are aimed at developing water-saving, low-noise and Principle 9: durable products. Since 2011, a new technological solution has been deployed to simEncourage the plify the conversion of the large flush volume on nearly all concealed cisterns from 6 or 9 development and to 4.5 liters.  EN26 diffusion of envi In 2011, six Geberit products were awarded the water efficiency Label WELL of the ronmentally European umbrella organization for valve manufacturers (EUnited), five of them in the friendly technolotop Class A. The label enables customers to make a conscious decision for water-saving gies. products.  Green building is a market of the future experiencing strong growth throughout the world. As the leading system provider for sanitation solutions, Geberit is already offering suit CEO Stateable products for this purpose. This is demonstrated by numerous reference buildings, ment e.g. Le Monolith in Lyon (FR) or the Prime Tower in Zurich (CH). Anti-corruption  As a long-time member of Transparency International Switzerland, Geberit is committed  DMA-SO Principle 10: to high standards in combating corruption. Businesses  The Internal Corporate Audit Department inspected a total of 19 companies in 2011. This should work is approximately one-third of all Geberit companies. In addition, approximately two in SO2 against corruption depth audits are carried out each year. This verification is supplemented by the annual,  SO4 in all its forms, binding Group-wide survey. No cases of corruption of any kind were discovered in 2011. including extortion  Geberit does not make donations to parties or politicians. All donations and related and bribery. commitments are neutral from a party political point of view. This was verified and docu SO5 mented as part of the annual, binding Group-wide survey.  SO6 Communication on Progress UN Global Compact (COP) on the financial year 2011 2
