ILSCO Corporation – 2012 Communication on Progress Company Background ILSCO Corporation (www.ilsco.com) is a privately-held, US owned electrical connector manufacturing company whose mission is to bring product innovation and exceptional customer service to the marketplace. ILSCO serves the following markets in the electrical industry: OEMs, MROs, Utilities, Commercial/Industrial (C&I), Residential, Telecom and Renewable Energies. ILSCO was established in 1894 as the Incandescent Light and Stove Company. Statement of Support from Andrew Quinn, ILSCO President I am pleased to reconfirm that ILSCO Corporation supports the ten principles of the UN Global Compact with respect to human rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption. Human Rights ILSCO Corporation supports and respects the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights as set forth in the International Bill of Human Rights and the core International Labor Organization (ILO) Conventions. ILSCO Corporation is diligently making sure we are not complicit in human rights abuses. ILSCO Corporation has an open door policy for any employees to voice concerns over Human Rights violations or other concerns. Implementation: Sections IP-02-09 and IP-02-10 of the ILSCO Employee Handbook addresses human rights violations. All new ILSCO employees must review and accept this policy in writing. Measurement of Outcome: ILSCO Corporation can state there have been no human rights violations that have been reported during the period covered by this Communication on Progress. Labor Labor ILSCO Corporation is an Equal Opportunity Employer is it our policy not to discriminate against any employee or applicant because of race, color, religion, sex, age (40 and over), marital status or national origin. ILSCO Corporation has adhered to this policy since our inception. ILSCO Corporation also supports the intent of the Americans with Disabilities Act which is to prevent discrimination against ILSCO Corporation – 2012 Communication on Progress qualified individuals with disabilities who can perform the essential functions of the job, either on their own or after reasonable accommodations by the employer. Implementation: ILSCO Corporation Human Resources has an open door policy that encourages all employees to contact them if they feel they have been a victim or witnessed a violation of the EOO policy. ILSCO Corporation Human Resources also encourages any employee to notify them if they feel a physical or mental disability might prevent them from meeting their performance requirements of their job, the nature of the disability and the suggested, reasonable accommodations. Measurement of Outcome: ILSCO Corporation is a female owned business. ILSCO Corporation Human Resources continually evaluates their policies to ensure compliance with local and national discrimination policies. ILSCO is ISO certified through August 29, 2015 under ISO 9001:2008. Environment ILSCO Corporation continually reviews its operations and working environment to determine opportunities for improvement in working conditions, productivity and environmental impact. ILSCO Corporation supports and encourages the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. ILSCO Corporation has developed and continues to develop products and technologies that are specifically targeted at renewable energy sources. Implementation: ILSCO Corporation participates in the Carbon Disclosure Project, effective 2012. Improvements to reducing ILSCO Corporation’s environmental impact include the following: • Installation of a solar array on roof of Cincinnati, OH facility • Reduction in water consumption by 60% in Cincinnati, OH facility, reducing energy required to process waste water • Converting Cincinnati, OH facility to high efficiency lighting • Electronic waste donated to local Goodwill Industries Measurement of Outcome: ILSCO Corporation’s initial Carbon Disclosure Project questionnaire was completed and submitted. The solar array on the roof of the Cincinnati, OH facility current offsets approximately 2200 kW per month in the facility’s electrical consumption. ILSCO Corporation – 2012 Communication on Progress AntiAnti-Corruption ILSCO Corporation rejects all corruption in all of its forms, including extortion and bribery. ILSCO Corporation diligently follows all related federal, state and local laws. Implementation: Section IP-02-06 of the Employee Handbook addresses the business ethics as they relate to anti-corruption and bribery. Measurement of Outcome: No incidents, legal cases, ruling, fines, etc have been imposed on ILSCO Corporation during the period covered by this Communication of Progress.
