CA TECHNOLOGIES Sustainability Executive Summary 2011 moving together about ca technologies stakeholder engagement our mission CA Technologies (Nasdaq: CA) is an IT management Our participation as a Ceres network company To revolutionize the way IT powers business agility, software and solutions company with expertise across continues to deliver credibility, expertise and a depth CA Technologies will eliminate the barriers to all IT environments — from mainframe and physical, of experience in driving sustainability leadership and delivering IT services in faster, more ﬂexible and more to virtual and cloud. CA manages and secures IT best practices. Together we identiﬁed key stakeholders sustainable ways; bridge the IT environments of today environments and enables customers to deliver more of diverse viewpoints who can provide valuable to those of tomorrow; break the trade-off between IT flexible IT services. CA Technologies innovative insights as they look at our business from their unique that is highly reliable and IT that’s highly flexible; and products and services provide the insight and control perspectives. Our hope and expectation are that they innovate to enable IT to respond to business needs essential for IT organizations to power business will continually challenge us to raise our own level with unprecedented speed and efficiency. agility. The majority of the Global Fortune 500 of performance. relies on CA Technologies to manage its evolving IT ecosystems. In our latest engagement, we discussed a variety of topics, from ways to differentiate ourselves in the For additional information, visit CA Technologies sustainability arena to opportunities for leadership in at ca.com. the area of emissions measurement and management. people planet proﬁt promote human rights and ethical labor practices; commit to a fixed reduction in our carbon footprint; lead in cloud, virtualization management, Software foster employee career development, work-life lead in innovating sustainability-focused software, as a Service (SaaS), identity and access management, balance and diversity; support our communities with a ﬁve-year product road map; use our solutions mainframe software, service assurance, and service through investments in education, technology, health to sustainably manage our data centers and reduce and portfolio management; practice ethical and and community services; and expand the pool of energy, waste and water use company-wide; transparent corporate governance; take advantage of diverse candidates for all management-level openings. collaborate with customers, suppliers and other sustainability opportunities that benefit the top and partners on sustainability innovations; and improve bottom line; and ensure compliance with the letter sustainability throughout the supply chain. and spirit of the laws where we do business. sustainability executive summary / 1 We lead by example, advancing sustainability for message from ceo & chairman CA Technologies, our customers and our partners. At CA Technologies, our sustainability strategy is to lead by example, developing innovative initiatives and agile solutions that advance sustainability for our triple bottom line of people, planet and profit. Case in point: We use our own CA ecoSoftware to manage and track sustainability initiatives across our company. We also aim to set an example in the way we provide opportunities for our diverse workforce, create an inclusive environment for our employees and support the communities where we work and live. Sustainability initiatives are smart business, too. On an operational level, they can boost productivity and provide enormous savings in time and money. They also help us attract and retain the best Bill McCracken Art Weinbach people, build brand value and deepen relationships with partners, customers and shareholders. Although we believe that pursuing sustainability offers its own rewards, we are also proud of the outside recognition we’ve received. In 2011, for example, CA Technologies was named a component of both the World and North America Dow Jones Sustainability Indexes (DJSI). We ranked 9th out of 500 U.S. companies in Newsweek’s 2011 Green 2 / ca technologies / moving together Rankings and were named one of the leading focus on diversity and inclusion, including a new audit by PwC of our processes and methodologies providers of enterprise-scale energy management emphasis on addressing the needs of lesbian, for greenhouse gas reporting. software by Verdantix.1 gay, bisexual and transgender (LGBT) employees. We are also excited to be taking the lead in We’re pleased that this recognition raises PLANET Our Green Teams — employee-led the critical area of cyber security. In a world that awareness of our sustainability work across our volunteer groups that educate and encourage depends on reliable and secure Internet company and in the public sphere. But we realize environmentally friendly behaviors — saw broad connections, any interruption of communications that sustainability is an ongoing endeavor, and adoption across the globe. We also improved or privacy endangers our ability to conduct we continue to push ourselves to increase our operational efficiency by eliminating a net of business and communicate. During the 2012 transparency, expand the types of sustainability 28,000 square feet of real estate and the associated annual meeting of the World Economic data we track and report, and increase the precision energy consumption needed for cooling, power Forum, CA Technologies helped spearhead the of our sustainability information by improving and other facilities costs. In addition, we aim to establishment of a broad set of principles to our methodology. As part of this effort, we have define IT management in the age of the cloud, encourage cyber resilience and was the first established a new greenhouse gas reduction just as we do for the mainframe and distributed company to commit to playing a role in mitigating goal of 35% by 2020, from a base year of 2006. environments. By leading the IT industry’s shift cyber threats. Seeking best-in-class sustainability reporting, for from physical to virtual to cloud, we will enable the first time this report reflects external assurance companies to reduce carbon emissions while We are pleased with the progress we made of our greenhouse gas emissions. Building internal increasing efficiency and lowering costs. during the previous year, but we recognize that and external awareness of our efforts continues to there is more work to do. We will continue to PROFIT Through our strategic business lead by example, advancing sustainability for be an area we need to improve, but we are making partnerships, we provided more full-service CA Technologies, our customers and our partners. excellent strides and have identified numerous customer solutions, and our recently opportunities to raise attention going forward. introduced CA ecoDesktop software will help During the year, we made important advances us and our customers save energy, down to toward our people, planet and profit goals. the workstation level. PEOPLE We increased internal and external Looking ahead, we have identified a major goal for Bill McCracken Art Weinbach stakeholder engagement through Ceres, as a fiscal year 2013. We have set an ambitious carbon Chief Executive Officer Chairman of the Board network company member, and increased our emissions reduction target that leverages a recent 1 Green Quadrant Energy Management Software (Global) December 2011. http://www.ca.com/gb/news/Press-Releases /emea/2011/CA-Technologies-Named-a-Leader-in-Energy-Management-en-gb.aspx sustainability executive summary / 3 We’ve made sustainability one of the core message from cso principles of the company, highly visible and encouraged throughout the enterprise. Moving together starts with an engaged workforce, customers. A good example is our participation as which is reflected in our internal sustainability a Ceres network company. We have leveraged their motto: Driven from the top down; energized from expertise to help drive sustainability leadership the bottom up. We’ve deﬁnitely seen this energy, as and best practices, including our external increasing numbers of CA Technologies employees stakeholder group, which held its ﬁrst meeting in help define and implement sustainability solutions. March 2012. We’re also in the early stages of a We have empowered them by establishing pilot program to collaborate with our top suppliers employee-led Green Teams that already represent on this vital issue. And we’re continuing to leverage more than half of our employees worldwide; our core competency by extending and improving by asking them to commit to our Pledge of solutions such as CA ecoSoftware to include more Environmental and Social Responsibility; and by of the social and employee engagement aspects of incorporating sustainability into our training and sustainability that we realize are so vital to every employee on-boarding. corporate sustainability initiative. In short, we’ve made sustainability one of the We are expanding our efforts with the aim of core principles of the company, highly visible continually improving our results, learning from Cynthia Curtis and encouraged throughout the enterprise. In others and sharing best practices. For example, the process, we’ve improved our reporting, we have reworded our recycling goal to be clearer enhanced our approach to estimating energy about our objective: reducing landfill waste. We In our last sustainability report, we told you about use, increased our transparency and invited have substantially lowered electricity consumption some of the things that move us as a company. We external review to confirm that our processes in our data centers and on-demand labs through said that together, we can make a difference — and are solid and our data is valid. server virtualization and physical infrastructure that’s why Moving Together is the theme for this improvements. We’ve adopted a green lease We have also taken significant steps to deepen year’s report. policy for all new and renegotiated leases. We’re and expand our relationships and stakeholder exploring the issue of e-waste at the procurement engagement efforts with NGOs, suppliers and stage. And we’re well on track to meeting our goal 4 / ca technologies / moving together of reducing electricity consumption per employee to 40% below 2006 levels by 2013. We’ve set ambitious goals because we think that’s the only way to make game-changing progress. The most significant of these is our 35% absolute reduction in greenhouse gases by 2020, from a 2006 baseline. It’s a bold objective and one that won’t come easily, but we’re confident we can get there. Sustainability is indeed a journey, and ours continues to be a thrilling and very fulfilling one. But we have more to do, and we’re delighted that you are joining us. In 2012, we have set an Cynthia Curtis Vice President and Chief Sustainability Officer ambitious new greenhouse gas reduction goal of 35% by 2020, off of a base year of 2006. sustainability executive summary / 5 Our employee-driven Green Teams are boosting ofﬁce and personal… GREEN TEAM, BRAZIL In São Paulo, where plastic bags have been prohibited at supermarkets and malls, the Green Team gave employees who signed our sustainability pledge reusable shopping bags with the CA Technologies logo. WE ENGAGE EMPLOYEES IN SUSTAINABILITY. We now have Green sustainability Teams at locations that represent more than half of our employees worldwide. Our hope is for all of our 130 offices to embrace the program. sustainability executive summary / 7 We’re encouraging women in digital literacy and technology… ANITA BORG INSTITUTE FOR WOMEN AND TECHNOLOGY CA Technologies supports the Anita Borg Institute for Women and Technology, an organization dedicated to increasing the influence of women on all aspects of technology and increasing the positive impact of technology for women. WE STRIVE FOR DIVERSITY. In the most recent Corporate career paths Equality Index ranking compiled by the Human Rights Campaign, CA Technologies received a rating of 80 out of 100. sustainability executive summary / 9 We invest in local schools to ensure the success of our local… CA-HOPE SCHOOL, INDIA CA Technologies fully funds the CA-HOPE School, which serves more than 200 underprivileged students from kindergarten through fourth grade. Our employees regularly participate in the school’s activities. WE SUPPORT OUR COMMUNITIES. CA Technologies financial communities contributions increased by approximately 30%, from $5.4 million in FY2010 to $7 million in FY2013. sustainability executive summary / 11 We’re helping improve sustainability at corporations throughout the world with advanced software tools customer solutions and strategic alliances. By showing customers how to use environmental in Denmark, expects CA ecoDesktop to save Another alliance with VCE, the Virtual Computing resources more efficiently, we help them reduce them approximately $549,000 on energy Environment Company, delivers integrated private their energy use and lower operational costs. costs over the next three years while reducing cloud solutions for VCE’s Vblock™ Infrastructure CA ecoSoftware is one of the key ways we do just carbon emissions. Platforms. These kinds of cloud computing that. CA ecoSoftware helps IT and facilities staff solutions can dramatically reduce IT operations gain greater availability, agility and efficiency in • The newest version of CA ecoMeter delivers and maintenance costs. their data center and IT operations. It’s one reason valuable new capabilities to support power we were recently named a leading provider of management for data centers and IT. According The success of our own efforts has helped us add enterprise-scale energy management software by to a September 2011 IDC white paper 3, a number of new customers, including NCC and “CA ecoMeter’s real-time analytics and accurate StratITsphere. NCC is a leading Swedish construction Verdantix in its report, Green Quadrant Energy monitoring enable informed decisions and and property company that is looking to us to help Management Software (Global), December 2011. a true reality check versus what many data reduce its carbon emissions, cut energy costs and Separately, David Metcalfe, CEO of Verdantix, center managers believe about how their manage sustainability. StratITsphere is an IT services noted that “CA ecoSoftware…can help organizations data center operates today and how it could company that provides infrastructure and security better manage energy from the asset to the operate tomorrow.” consulting, and data center and cloud services. It enterprise level.2” is using CA ecoSoftware to collect and consolidate In 2011, we announced new and enhanced We continue to expand our strategic alliances to energy metrics at its 100,000-square-foot data center offerings in the CA ecoSoftware family. better meet our customers’ sustainability to facilitate customer reporting and billing, efﬁcient needs. Last year, we announced one such alliance cooling strategies and power management. • CA ecoDesktop helps customers manage with Bull to help large enterprises transform desktop and PC power consumption by reducing their physical, heterogenous IT infrastructures to Next steps for CA ecoSoftware are to wasted energy and increasing staff productivity. private clouds, where information can be accessed explore tracking certain social dimensions One customer, the Municipality of Ballerup securely from a central source through the Internet. of sustainability. 12 / ca technologies / moving together 8.9 out of a possible 10 achieved in our most recent customer survey. WYNDHAM WORLDWIDE CAPGEMINI CA Technologies relentless focus on improving customer support helps deliver better experiences Through its Wyndham Green program, Capgemini, one of the world’s foremost and enables our customers to get the greatest Wyndham Worldwide is not only one of providers of consulting, technology and possible benefits from our products. This approach the world’s largest hospitality companies, outsourcing services, has teamed with pushed our customer satisfaction score to a new but also one of the greenest. The company CA Technologies to help Tesco PLC with high of 8.9 out of 10 and prompted one customer is at the top of the latest Newsweek Green its carbon data management. Tesco, to say, “The level of support I received made me Rankings in its category and among the which operates grocery stores in Europe, feel as if I were CA Technologies only customer.” top 10% in the S&P 500 Carbon Disclosure Asia and North America, has contracted Improving awareness of our sustainability Project Leadership Index. Wyndham is with Capgemini to provide a specialized commitments is a benefit for both new client working with CA Technologies to track managed service for energy and carbon introductions and employee recruiting. Last year, and measure a number of environmental data management to support its inour efforts in this area were aided by independent metrics. One of its goals — to reduce its house sustainability team and its use of recognition. In 2011, CA Technologies was named carbon footprint by 20% by 2020 based CA ecoGovernance software. Tesco has a component of both the World and North America on 2010 intensity metrics — is something seen an improvement in the efficiency Dow Jones Sustainability Indexes (DJSI) and ranked our CA ecoSoftware is helping the and capacity of its carbon footprint 9th out of 500 in Newsweek’s Green Rankings of company accomplish. measurement and reporting processes. U.S. companies. 2 http://www.ca.com/gb/news/Press-Releases/emea/2011/CA-Technologies -Named-a-Leader-in-Energy-Management-en-gb.aspx 3 IDC White Paper sponsored by CA Technologies, Datacenter Infrastructure Management (DCIM): Bringing Together the World of Facilities and Cloud Computing, Doc# 229847, September 2011. sustainability executive summary / 13 Our own operations demonstrate that sustainability is good business. By actively pursuing strategies that reduce energy use operational efficiency and waste, we are also cutting costs at CA Technologies offices around the world. We continue to make progress on a number data has resulted in improved data accuracy consolidation. From the previous year, our Carbon of commitments aimed at improving our and year-on-year comparability. See ca.com Disclosure Project (CDP) rating increased from operational efficiency. Last year, we committed /sustainability-report for details. 61/100 to 68/100. Some of the ways we are to moving toward a goal of 100% electronic reducing our carbon footprint include acting on Since 2006, operational improvements have distribution of software, with no packaging opportunities for lighting reduction, smart-spacing reduced our carbon footprint by approximately 25% or shipping of products. With all but two of our facilities, and increasing efficiencies in our due to our energy-saving initiatives and real estate our software products available as electronic data centers and labs. downloads, we have made good progress toward meeting this goal. However, because some Our innovative Labs on Demand program customers — such as government agencies — continues to improve our use of energy and real estate. Last year, this program eliminated % require physical delivery of software products, we 25 will also continue to offer that as an option. 5,000 square feet of data center floor space, cutting greenhouse gas emissions by approximately During the year, we began working with PwC 230 tonnes and saving 366 MWh. to establish our carbon reduction goal. In line with the Greenhouse Gas Protocol (GHG During 2011, we began gathering GHG emissions data from our suppliers. The information we Protocol), we have restated our 2006 emissions reduction in our carbon footprint to reflect improved calculation methodologies receive from our supplier sustainability survey will since 2006 through operational and data management systems. The application be analyzed to develop a program for monitoring improvements. of our current calculation approach to historical and collaboratively developing more sustainable solutions for both businesses. 14 / ca technologies / moving together We have also extended our efforts to reduce landfill waste in a variety of ways. For example, in April 2011 we distributed reusable mugs and cups at all of our North America locations. Over the next five months, this small change alone prevented approximately 517,420 styrofoam LEADING BY EXAMPLE: HOW WE USE CA ECOSOFTWARE cups from going to landfill and lowered our landﬁll waste by more We created CA ecoSoftware by leveraging our capabilities in areas such as systems management, than a ton. project and portfolio management, and governance, risk, and compliance management. This energy, Looking ahead, we are working toward achieving carbon and sustainability management solution helps corporations throughout the world improve ENERGY STAR — or similar — certification in all of sustainability performance. CA ecoSoftware comprises CA ecoGovernance, CA ecoMeter and our data centers. CA ecoDesktop. These combined efforts will go a long way toward We developed CA ecoGovernance to meet our own need to track, monitor and report on greenhouse helping us reach our new greenhouse gas reduction gas emissions and to facilitate our reporting processes. We also use the software to track waste and goal of 35% by 2020, off a base year of 2006. water. Similarly, realizing we needed greater insight and real-time data about our energy use to enable greater efficiency, we created CA ecoMeter to measure and manage power and cooling in our data centers and facilities around the globe. And we expect to implement CA ecoDesktop to manage desktop power use in key CA Technologies offices in the coming year. sustainability executive summary / 15 At CA Technologies, our relationships with our colleagues are defined by simple but clear values: Respect for people. employee empowerment Consistently innovate and advance. Create amazing team spirit. And inspire customer loyalty. We believe that continuously working to collaboration. We believe our new Green Teams and inclusion in the workplace and are just recruit, retain and develop talent creates the represent a very positive step in this direction starting to see results in senior management. In best teams. And we regularly conduct employee (see page 17). May 2012, CA Technologies was named one of opinion and culture surveys to find out how 25 Best Companies for Multicultural Women by We launched our sustainability pledge in well we’re doing. Our Culture Index Survey (CIS) Working Mother magazine. December 2011, asking employees to commit shows that many employees feel energized and to actions that lower their environmental passionate about their jobs. Our most recent CIS impact and make sustainability more personally showed that three-quarters of employees are meaningful. Components of the pledge include happy working at CA Technologies, more than using energy responsibly and minimizing waste; 70% see it as a great place to work and roughly 68% lowering unnecessary water use; and using more said its culture values resonate with them. We also sustainable travel options whenever possible. conduct an Employee Opinion Survey annually. In 2012, we are leveraging social media and Results from the next survey are scheduled to be gamification to create a more dynamic online released in August 2012. employee-engagement experience. In terms of employee engagement, we are making According to the Williams Institute, 96% of the progress on CA Technologies goals, but survey top 50 Fortune 500 companies and 88% of results tell us that we need to place a greater focus the top 50 federal government contractors state on enhancing company-wide team spirit and that, in general, diversity policies and generous benefit packages are good for their business. Meghan Stabler Global Senior IT Operations Director and Champion Last year, we increased our focus on diversity for Diversity and Inclusion 16 / ca technologies / moving together % 70 + More than 70% of employees see CA Technologies as a great place to work. Going forward, we are emphasizing initiatives centering on equal rights and benefits for lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender (LGBT) employees. In the most recent Corporate Equality Index ranking compiled by the Human OUR GREEN TEAMS MAKE SUSTAINABILITY PERSONAL Rights Campaign, CA Technologies received a rating of 80 out of 100. In order to achieve a rating of 100, CA Technologies must provide Our Green Teams leverage our employees’ energy • The Framingham Green Team’s Bring Out transgender-inclusive health insurance coverage and ideas, and empower them to advance our Your Dead initiative encouraged employees and demonstrate firm-wide organizational sustainability strategy. In our last sustainability to turn in old, idle electronic equipment and competency on LGBT issues. This effort is being report, we committed to establishing Green resulted in collecting more than 120 devices led by Meghan Stabler, one of our global senior Teams globally. We began by conducting pilots and the creation of an annual recycling event. IT operations directors, who also champions in Paris, Sydney and Framingham. The results diversity and inclusion at CA Technologies and were impressive: We have now implemented Green Teams that serves on President Obama’s National LGBT represent more than half of our employees Policy Committee. • The Paris Green Team introduced a series worldwide. Our goal is to have a Green Team of changes in the way printers are used, captain in every office and to gradually helping its colleagues reduce overall paper implement a more metric-driven strategy to consumption by 10.5%. guide the teams’ efforts. • The Sydney Green Team conducted a recycling audit and reported that 85–90% of Above: Earth Day event in the Framingham office. its general office waste is being recovered and sold for recycling and/or reuse. sustainability executive summary / 17 CA Technologies is a global corporation with a local commitment. We work to improve the quality of life in communities where we live community involvement and work worldwide and are fully committed to advancing social, environmental and economic sustainability. Since our last report, we have launched several Last year, we made a number of new philanthropic new partnerships and programs in the area commitments and increased participation in many of science, technology, engineering and math of our long-standing charitable initiatives. (STEM) education for youth in underserved Boys & Girls Clubs of America (BGCA) Our communities. By developing tomorrow’s IT Commitment to Action was highlighted at the leaders — and potential CA Technologies Clinton Global Initiative Annual Meeting in employees — these investments help ensure the September 2011. sustainability of our own business. In addition, through partnerships with organizations such Change the Equation This organization was as the Anita Borg Institute for Women and launched to build a national movement to improve Technology, we continue to back programs and STEM education programs and advocacy. We initiatives that support the advancement of TECH GIRLS ROCK: joined in 2011 and participated in a White House women in IT. INTRODUCING GIRLS TO TECHNOLOGY brainstorming session with businesses, educators and other groups focused on STEM initiatives. Employee volunteerism grew in 2011: more Last year, we made a $1 million commitment than 2,500 employees gave over 10,000 hours CA Together in Action Our global volunteer month to BGCA to launch Tech Girls Rock, an in community service. We also increased our celebrated its sixth anniversary with employees initiative that aims to inspire tween and teen corporate giving and involvement internationally. participating in more than 130 volunteer projects girls to discover an interest in technology In total, we gave more than $4.4 million in grants, throughout the world during the month of October. that may lead to tech-related educational approximately $1.6 million in employee matching UN Women’s Empowerment Principles Our opportunities and careers. Employees have gifts, and more than $500,000 in software CEO, Bill McCracken, added his name to the UN participated as moderators, panelists and and services. Development Fund for Women and UN Global group leaders in workshops throughout the Compact’s Women’s Empowerment Principles CEO country, from Boston to San Francisco. Statement of Support. 18 / ca technologies / moving together We aim to provide a best-practice example and demonstrate leadership based on the way we operate our business and conduct business practices ourselves at the highest levels. One of the key commitments we made in our Last year, we instituted a corporate sustainability rated on a regular basis by an independent previous report was to use a third party to audit policy: CA Technologies is committed to being analytics ﬁrm, Institutional Shareholder Services, future sustainability reports, including assurance a responsible corporate citizen that creates value using ratings that identify and evaluate our key of processes, methodologies and data. To that end, for customers, shareholders, employees and other governance practices across four dimensions: we have received third-party assurance through stakeholders through growing the company in Audit, Board of Directors, Compensation/ KPMG and worked with Ceres to identify material environmentally and socially sustainable ways. Remuneration and Shareholder Rights to issues and to develop a broad stakeholderAs a signatory of the UN Global Compact, determine our Governance Risk Indicator (GRI). As engagement program. CA Technologies will lead by example to monitor of January 1, 2012, the GRI for CA Technologies and minimize resource depletion; focus on was Audit (Low Concern), Board (Low Concern), Our governance model continues to evolve and sustainable resources; and address other Compensation (Medium Concern) and Shareholder facilitate improvements in, and expansion of, our activities that adversely impact our environment. Rights (Low Concern). sustainability program. The program management CA Technologies further promotes programs office was established to tap into employees in All CA Technologies employees are required that advance education, technology, health other functions as we developed the strategy. We to complete annual Business Practices & and community services as well as a collaborate with this group on various initiatives Compliance (BP&C) training. This training diverse workforce. which in turn empowers its members to act as provides important information that helps sustainability ambassadors within the company. We recently formed a Political Action Committee, employees spot issues and make good decisions The advisory council, at the senior executive level, CAPAC, as a way of providing thought leadership when conducting business on behalf of continues to provide guidance and approval, and advocacy on policies, regulations and legislation CA Technologies. In our most recent BP&C annual enabling our 35% reduction target. Lastly, oversight that affect CA Technologies and our stakeholders. curriculum, 99.9% of employees completed of the sustainability program at the board level their training. ensures a lasting and serious commitment. We remain dedicated to the highest levels of transparency and disclosure. Our performance is sustainability executive summary / 19 commitment what we did what’s next ENVIRONMENT Work with The Climate Registry to We discontinued our relationship with The Climate Registry and We will measure not only Scope 1 and 2 Greenhouse Gas (GHG) ﬁnalize emissions targets by May 2011 began working with PwC to establish our carbon reduction goal. emissions, but also Scope 3, which covers business travel and waste In line with the Greenhouse Gas Protocol, we have restated our generated in operations. Our target is to reduce Scope 1 and 2 emis2006 emissions to reﬂect improved calculation methodologies sions by 35% by 2020, off of a base year of 2006. and data management systems. Move toward goal of 100% electronic All but two of our software products are available as electronic Some customers — such as government agencies — require physical distribution of software with no packdownloads; this has allowed us to achieve an 85–90% electronic delivery of software products; therefore we modiﬁed our goal to aging or shipping of products distribution rate. reach 95% or higher electronic distribution by 2013. Issue supplier questionnaire to estabWe expanded our questionnaire to key suppliers to include We will use 2011 as a benchmark for our suppliers, and will lish baseline reporting and encourage sustainability policies, initiatives and goals. Our Hiperos procollaborate with them in 2012 to develop more sustainable solukey suppliers to publish a sustainabilgram is a solution that helps CA Technologies manage targeted tions. We’re exploring the issue of measuring e-waste at the ity report by 2012 suppliers around reputational risk, regulatory penalties and procurement stage. customer impact. Reduce electricity consumption per We’re on track to meet our goal of reducing electricity consumpWe have metered electricity data for 58 facilities and will expand employee to 40% below 2006 levels tion per employee. We consumed 100,214 GJ of renewable energy the measurement of our consumption in other ofﬁces. by 2013 in 2011, representing 22% of total electricity purchased from renewable sources. Purchase 25% of electricity from renewable sources by 2015 Reduce solid waste to landﬁll from Currently, we have metered waste data for four facilities. In We will use 2012 as a benchmark and establish measurement reducour facilities Sydney, a recycling audit revealed that 85 to 90% of all disposed tion processes in our global facilities. We have also moved to a new materials are reused or recycled. At CA World held in 2011, we waste management company at one of our locations from which we achieved an 80% recycling rate. will develop effective guidelines for the rest of our facilities. Increase telepresence to reduce travel; Partnering with PlanetTran and other green vendors, we We will expand the use of virtual-meeting technologies, and track expand use of hybrid vehicles, etc., for introduced a travel policy that encourages the use of ecothe impact, and further promote sustainable travel. Our GHG meamore sustainable travel friendly hybrid vehicles, ride sharing, video conferencing and surement process has also expanded to include travel emissions in other measures. our future reporting. Adopt a green lease policy for all new We adopted a green lease policy in 2011 and have entered into We will continue to implement green leases globally. In addition, and renegotiated leases this year green leases in Herndon, VA, in 2011, and in Scottsdale, AZ; Ft. our recently opened executive briefing center in Manhattan Collins, CO; Lisle, IL; Portsmouth, NH; and Plano, TX, in 2012. We was built to LEED-CI standards: http://www.ca.com/us/about-us now have 297,950 square feet of ofﬁce space under green leases. /Executive-Brieﬁng-Center.aspx 20 / ca technologies / moving together commitment what we did what’s next GOVERNANCE Use third party to audit future sustainOur GHG emissions data in this report is independently veriﬁed We will continue to engage with a third party to independently ability reports, including assurance of by KPMG. review our emissions. processes, methodologies and data Increase Board involvement in We created a Sustainability Advisory Council at the senior execuWe will continue to communicate on a regular basis with our Board sustainability initiatives tive level of the company, and we now have Board oversight of to identify possible immediate and future impacts and evaluate the the program. implementation of sustainability goals. Work with Ceres to develop a broad Together with Ceres, we identiﬁed material issues and developed We will assess the key topics and issues raised in our external stakestakeholder-engagement program a broad dialogue with stakeholders. holder meeting and map these against our business imperatives. this year Institute a corporate sustainability We instituted this policy, which can be viewed at: We will continually evaluate our policy based on our materiality policy this year http://www.ca.com/us/about-us/corporate-citizenship/Corporate assessment and engagement with different stakeholders. -Policies.aspx#Environmental-Responsibility EMPLOYEES Expand the pool of diverse candidates Currently, our female representation is 8% at the executive We have an initiative to increase the diversity of our workforce sigfor all management-level openings by management level. niﬁcantly during the next three years, particularly in management the end of this year and various departments within the company. Issue an employee sustainabilWe have not reached our goal. To provide a more dynamic and We will conduct more activities globally to encourage employees to ity pledge this year and achieve engaging site for employees, we are leveraging Practically Green’s become active participants and commit to actions. 30% participation SaaS application, which utilizes gamiﬁcation and social media and calculates GHG emissions associated with actions. Establish Green Teams globally We conducted three pilots in Paris, Sydney and Framingham. We We will continue to roll out Green Teams globally and strive to have this year now have 16 Green Teams at locations that represent more than all 130 CA Technologies ofﬁces embrace the program. half of our employees worldwide. COMMUNITY More closely integrate We continued to support all areas of education and technology. We will continue to build science, technology, engineering and math community/philanthropic involvement In partnership with Boys & Girls Clubs of America, we launched (STEM) education initiatives to develop future leaders of tomorrow, with sustainability initiatives Tech Girls Rock. and build on our new area of focus, the environment. Increase corporate giving outside We contributed more than $4.4 million a year and approximately We aim to further expand international partnerships and increase the U.S. $500,000 in software and services to nonproﬁt organizations, our Community Affairs budget to $7 million, which will include increasing our giving outside the U.S. matching gifts, program administration and grants in North America, EMEA, APJ and Latin America. contact us partnerships & memberships CA Technologies In April 2012, CA Technologies was named a Maplecroft Capgemini Worldwide Global Green Consulting One CA Plaza Climate Innovation Index Leader. Our company was ranked Carbon Disclosure Project Green Biz Executive Network Islandia, NY 11749 54th out of 360 in the Maplecroft Climate Innovation Carbon Trust ICF International USA Indexes, up from 73rd out of 350 in their prior profiling. ca.com Ceres Infosys Corporate Eco Forum Jones Lang LaSalle learn more Deloitte NY State Smart Grid To learn more about CA Technologies sustainability EarthShare Siemens In December 2011, CA Technologies was named a initiatives and products: leader in energy management software by Verdantix, an ENERGY STAR Wipro EcoEnergy ca.com/sustainability-report independent analyst firm focused on sustainable busiEDF Climate Corps World Economic Forum sustainability@ca.com ness strategies and market opportunities. This mention Fujitsu World Resources Institute appears in the Verdantix report titled Green Quadrant community.ca.com/blogs/greenit Glacial Energy Energy Management Software (Global). ca.com/ecosoftware @CAsustain awards & recognition FTSE Group confirms that CA Technologies has been independently assessed according to the FTSE4Good In 2011, CA Technologies was named a component of criteria and has satisfied the requirements to become a both the Dow Jones Sustainability World Index and the constituent of the FTSE4Good Index Series. Created by the Dow Jones Sustainability North America Index. global index company FTSE Group, FTSE4Good is an equity index series that is designed to facilitate investment in companies that meet globally recognized corporate responsibility standards. Companies in the FTSE4Good Index Series have met stringent social and environmental In October 2011, CA Technologies was ranked among criteria, and are positioned to capitalize on the benefits of the top 10 greenest companies in the U.S. by Newsweek responsible business practice. magazine. These Newsweek Green Rankings grade the 500 largest publicly traded U.S. companies on their Copyright © 2012 CA. All rights reserved. All trademarks, trade names, service marks and logos referenced herein belong to their respective companies. environmental impact, strategy, policy, management, reputation and overall performance as environmentally Design by Addison www.addison.com responsible companies. The complete list can be found Photo credit for page 17: Steven M Isenberg, Green Team Member at www.newsweek.com/green.
