UN Global Compact Communication on Progress Griffon Hoverwork Limited © 2011 UN Global Compact Griffon Hoverwork Ltd STATEMENT OF CONTINUED SUPPORT FROM THE CHAIRMAN I am very pleased to be able to give this statement of continued support for the UN Global Compact and its ten core principles. During 2011 and into 2012, Griffon Hoverwork has grown from strength to strength and implemented a considerable number of strategies effectively applying the principles of human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption to best effect. Responsible business practices are at the very heart of our company and the policies implemented in the last year reflect this, both internal policies and those governing our relationships with agents, customers and third parties. The implementation of the Anti-Bribery and Corruption Policy has been particularly important for the company which relies heavily on an extensive agent network. Griffon Hoverwork employees are committed to corporate citizenship and several charitable organisations have been supported this year, either by the company as a whole or by individuals in their personal lives. This report outlines our commitment and support to the Global Compact and reiterates the Board’s commitment to upholding such worthwhile principles. Mr James Gaggero Chairman HUMAN RIGHTS Principle 1: The support and respect of the protection of international human rights Principle 2: The refusal to participate or condone human rights abuses Griffon Hoverwork recognises its responsibility to uphold human rights, both within the workplace and in the wider community. In the workplace, human rights protection takes the form of nondiscrimination and equality in recruitment, with robust employment policies to protect against any discriminatory practices and risks to personal safety. In the wider community, the company contributes to personal development and raising education levels by supporting schools and making charitable donations to relevant interest groups. 2|Page © Griffon Hoverwork2010 UN Global Compact Griffon Hoverwork Ltd DEVELOPMENTS HUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPLES IN THE WORKPLACE • Griffon Hoverwork has implemented a Recruitment and Selection Policy to ensure a fair recruitment process regardless of sex, race, religion, belief, age or perceived age, sexual orientation or disability. These principles are also enshrined in the company’s Equality and Diversity Policy for the benefit of employees. These policies were reviewed by the Staff Forum Representatives in March 2011 and re-issued as part of the staff handbook to all employees in April 2011. • Griffon Hoverwork has a comprehensive health and safety policy in place, which complies with industry, national and international standards. The company’s responsibility on health and safety extends to its visitors, customers, contractors and any other people who may be affected by our activities within or outside our organisation. • Responsibilities for Health and Safety tasks are clearly defined. As Griffon Hoverwork currently occupies two sites, each has a separate organisation chart for health and safety responsibilities. Health and safety issues are recorded, reported on a weekly basis at the Project Meeting and are followed up by the Health and Safety Officer. • Employees are provided with the necessary safety equipment and receive a Health and Safety Induction on their first day at work. • The company allows employees paid holiday leave, sick leave, and parental leave in accordance with international minimum standards. . HUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPLES IN THE WIDER COMMUNITY • When the floods hit Pakistan in July 2010, Griffon Hoverwork put together a disaster relief and humanitarian aid package consisting of five hovercraft. Although the company was unable to get the hovercraft to the disaster area, the exercise prompted Griffon Hoverwork to consider having craft on stand-by for disaster relief and we are now actively engaged with several UN agencies and Medicine Sans Frontiers to discuss how hovercraft can complement their work during humanitarian disasters. • Griffon Hoverwork supports local schools in a bid to enhance their learning programme. Downside Middle School on the Isle of Wight offers pupils practical sessions which involve repairing an old hovercraft. To help them, we invited four pupils and their teacher to have a tour of the factory and meet our Technical Director, who gave them advice on how to repair the hovercraft skirt. Since their visit, they have kept in touch with Griffon Hoverwork to update the company on their progress. 3|Page © Griffon Hoverwork2010 UN Global Compact Griffon Hoverwork Ltd GOALS • The Health and Safety Policy will be reviewed on an annual basis by the Health and Safety Officer and signed off by the Managing Director. • Members of the Human Resources team will keep up-to-date with any changes in employment law and review these policies on a regular basis, training and communicating all employees with employment law updates where appropriate. LABOUR Principle 3: The support of freedom of association and the recognition of the right to collective bargaining Principle 4: The abolition of compulsory labour Principle 5: The elimination of child labour Principle 6: The elimination of discrimination in employment and occupation It is the primary focus of the Human Resources team, to ensure that the labour principles are respected through the management of employment contracts and internal policies. DEVELOPMENTS • Griffon Hoverwork invests heavily in local apprenticeship schemes to support local school leavers who want to train to develop their skills within a manufacturing environment. Apprentices are taken on each year, working 4 days a week alongside a mentor assigned within Griffon Hoverwork and the remaining 1 day a week at College. Employment contracts, whether full time, part time, apprenticeships or agency staff, are based on voluntary employment and include terms for termination. • There are a number of policies in place to protect employees in the workplace, including a Harassment and Bullying Policy, Discipline and Dismissal Policy and Grievance Policy. 4|Page © Griffon Hoverwork2010 UN Global Compact Griffon Hoverwork Ltd Additional policies to improve working conditions include the Work-Related Stress Policy, Maternity/Paternity Policy, Special Leave and Flexible Working Patterns Policy. These were reviewed by the Staff Forum Representatives in March 2011 and re-issued as part of the staff handbook to all employees in April 2011. They are subject to review during 2012. • There is a staff forum that meets each month to discuss company issues and address employee concerns. Every department is represented by a nominated employee and each new starter will be made aware as to who their representative is. During these meetings, company changes are raised and every employee is entitled to contribute his or her opinion. • All employees that have been with the company for more than three months are offered a Group Personal Pension (GPP). After three months employment, employees can contribute a minimum of 3% and following one year’s employment the company will contribute up to 5% of gross pay. • Griffon Hoverwork limited is now applying the above principles to select potential partners abroad and insist on compliance. ENVIRONMENT Principle 7: The implementation of a precautionary and effective programme to environmental issues Principle 8: Initiatives that demonstrate environmental responsibility 5|Page © Griffon Hoverwork2010 UN Global Compact Griffon Hoverwork Ltd Principle 9: The promotion of the diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies Griffon Hoverwork is committed to protecting the environment and will continually assess its practices to reduce environmental damage as much as possible. DEVELOPMENTS • Griffon Hoverwork has published an Environmental Policy Statement. • During 2010-2011 Griffon Hoverwork introduced a Sustainable Procurement Policy. It is Griffon Hoverwork’s policy to encourage a diverse range of suppliers to tender to provide services, materials or expertise and our aim is to give equal opportunities to both large and small suppliers. The Griffon Hoverwork Procurement Team use a thorough vetting and appraisal process when appointing new suppliers, including site visits. This is to understand the supplier’s procurement chain, ensure that their business ethics are in line with the company’s and that responsible sourcing is being observed. • Griffon Hoverwork has assessed and produced a case study on the environmental benefits of operating a hovercraft as over conventional boats. This has been published on our website and highlighted to customers and potential customers. Our design team are continually looking to improve the environmental friendliness of our hovercraft at the request of many of our customers who operate in conservation areas. • In October 2010 Griffon Hoverwork embarked on a project to introduce lean manufacturing throughout the craft build process, to cut down on excess materials and production time and improve efficiency in the factory. Lean awareness sessions from consultants and visits to other industries formed part of this process, which has been a major cultural change as well as learning curve for the company from top to bottom. The Indian Coastguard project for twelve 8000TD was chosen for the model production line. A ‘U’ shaped layout has been set up on the shop floor with clearly identified space for each stage and every feeder subassembly. The entire build process, divided into four stages, will help us satisfy the customer’s requirement of a 3 month lead time between each craft. Each stage has been standardised in 12 weekly cycles of work and materials pulled accordingly. People from all areas production, procurement, design and senior management – were included. • Wherever possible, Griffon Hoverwork avoids scrapping old material or hovercraft. Instead, the company has bought back craft from customers for refurbishment and re-sale or donated them to the Hovercraft Museum. GOALS • The Senior Management Team to consider whether the company should comply with the Environmental ISO 14000 standard. • Application to the Southampton City Council to be part of the Tidy Business Initiative. • To improve recycling, both in the offices and on the shop floor. • Extend the lean manufacturing process once it has been tested on the Indian Coastguard project. • Apply such policies to the manufacturing ethics of our potential partners abroad. 6|Page © Griffon Hoverwork2010 UN Global Compact Griffon Hoverwork Ltd ANTI-CORRUPTION Principle 10: The promotion and adoption of initiatives to counter all forms of corruption, including extortion and bribery Griffon Hoverwork is committed to the prevention and eradication of any corruption activity amongst its employees, agents and in its wider sphere of influence. In the past year the company has implemented the Anti-Bribery and Corruption Policy and undertaken a large amount of work with regard to its worldwide agent network. Griffon Hoverwork recognises that to uphold these principles on-going reviews into both internal policies and the activities of its representatives will have to be undertaken. DEVELOPMENTS • Griffon Hoverwork established an Anti-Bribery and Corruption Policy in November 2010. There is also a Whistle Blowing Policy to encourage employees to raise any concerns they may have without fear of reprisal, which includes the procedure to investigate the allegations of wrongdoing. • This policy was made known to all employees in December 2010. • Griffon Hoverwork relies on a large number of agents and distributors around the World to promote and sell the company’s products. In order to ensure that no representative of the company is involved in corruption, extortion and bribery, a thorough ‘Agent Selection Process’ has been implemented. Agents are now selected with involvement from the UKTI and involve interviews both in the UK and in-country. • Once selected, all agency agreements contain clauses with regard to anti-corruption. • Agent training is given and quarterly reporting is required to give the company visibility on their actions. 7|Page © Griffon Hoverwork2010 UN Global Compact Griffon Hoverwork Ltd GOALS • The Anti-Bribery and Corruption Policy will be issued to all new employees in their induction pack. • Annual reviews will be undertaken on all agent activity to ensure compliance. • Investigation of the actions required to protect the trademarks and other Intellectual Property in order to prevent other companies using the Griffon Hoverwork logo/brand for setting up fraudulent agents or subsidiaries. 8|Page © Griffon Hoverwork2010
