Oesterreichische Entwicklungsbank AG Funding tomorrow’s prosperity. Annual Report 2011 – Condensed Version Oesterreichische Entwicklungsbank ag Quick facts and figures Financial year ended 31 December 2011 Oesterreichische Entwicklungsbank AG Founded in 2008 in Vienna The official development bank Wholly-owned subsidiary of the Austrian government of Oesterreichische Kontrollbank AG Member of European Development Share capital: EUR 5,000,000 Finance Institutions (EDFI) 22 employees Projects implemented in 2011 Number of projects 18 Investment Finance EUR 78.7 million (8 projects) Advisory Programmes EUR 4.2 million (8 projects) Foreign Trade Programme EUR 3.4 million (2 projects) Contribution to development The projects of OeEB contribute to progress towards the achievement of Millennium Development Goals 1 (halving poverty and extreme hunger), 7 (ensuring environmental sustainability) and 8 (developing a global partnership for development). Number of people 6,395 employed in OeEB-financed projects Number of micro businesses 2,872 and small & medium enterprises (SME) 38 that gain access to credit Financing for climate protection projects EUR 53.6 million The basis for calculating these benefits is described on page 12 in section B.I.ii, Development impact). Key financials Total assets EUR 226.3 million Profit for the year EUR 848,910 Unallocated profit for the year EUR 274,095 Standard & Poor’s long-term issuer rating: AA+ (AAA from 28 November 2011 to 17 January 2012); S&P short-term issuer rating: A-1+ Funding tomorrow’s prosperity. Better living conditions in developing and newly industrialised countries through vibrant economies. Oesterreichische Entwicklungsbank AG, the official development bank of the Austrian government, has been operating since March 2008. Combining business and development, OeEB strengthens Austria’s ties to countries that want to achieve sustainable improvement in prosperity through private sector development. Our services complement and support the work done by Austrian policy, investors, banks and civil society for development in the world’s poorer countries. Oesterreichische Entwicklungsbank AG Funding tomorrow’s prosperity. Annual Report 2011 Condensed Version Oesterreichische Entwicklungsbank AG OeEB – Annual Report 2011 / Condensed Version In the interest of readability, this report may in some cases use wording that is gender-specific. However, all references to positions, titles and people should be construed as gender-neutral. OeEB – Annual Report 2011 / Condensed Version Contents Letter from the Executive Board 7 Vision, mission and principles 9 A. Development project cycle and approval responsibilities & procedures 11 I. Business segments 11 B. Management report 21 I. Business and financial review 21 II. Outlook and risks for the bank 28 C. Financial statements 2011 34 1. Balance sheet at 31 December 2011 34 2. Income statement for the year ended 31 December 2011 36 3. Notes to the financial statements 38 3.1 Accounting policies 38 3.2 Notes to the balance sheet and income statement 40 3.3 Additional information 49 Annex: Movement in non-current assets 50 D. Auditor’s report 53 OeEB – Annual Report 2011 / Condensed Version OeEB – Annual Report 2011 / Condensed Version Letter from the Executive Board GRI 1.1, GRI 1.2, “We create better living conditions in developing and newly industrialised countries 3.5 through a vibrant economy.” This key sentence from the vision, mission and principles formulated by OeEB in 2011 encapsulates what we are about. For OeEB, working sustainably means that we must be in good financial health ourselves. At the same time, it means ensuring sustainable development by stimulating the private sector in disadvantaged regions and thus combating poverty. Sustainable practices both in-house and in our projects are critically important and are therefore highlighted in our combined annual and sustainability report. All our projects must be not just profitable but appropriate in the context of local development in the respective country. Studies in developing countries continue to underline the beneficial effects of creating private economic structures, of the infrastructure expansion these require, and of the creation of financing opportunities especially for small and medium-sized businesses. A report (co-produced by OeEB) presented at the World Bank meeting in Washington in September 2011 demonstrated that for every dollar of funding provided by international financial institutions (IFIs), such as the development banks, twelve dollars in financing are made available by private investors. The report also showed that development banks provide more than USD 40 billion per year for foreign direct investment. That amounts to about five per cent of total capital flows into emerging markets. The development banks are a major factor in job creation and private sector growth in developing and transitional economies. How well OeEB is performing in this regard was formally assessed beginning in November 2011, in an evaluation conducted on behalf of the Austrian Ministry of Finance. The final report will be available in spring 2012. What is certain is that, thanks to our outstanding team, we have been able to put the bank’s activities on the path of success. To keep progressing at a strong pace, we are currently developing a common management philosophy that will help us to meet the challenges of the future with confidence. New ways to boost development were created in 2011 – such as the basis for us to make private equity investments. This adds another valuable product to our portfolio. In times of economic uncertainty, we are a steady presence as a development bank: As a reliable partner, we continue to provide capital even when crises make commercial banks reluctant to do so. In emerging markets – which to some extent are also affected by these difficulties – we are thus able to ensure that private enterprise continues to power economic activity. 7 OeEB – Annual Report 2011 / Condensed Version In those markets where Austrian companies have not yet gained a real foothold, we arrive first, in our role as a development bank: By providing financing for the establishment and growth of small and medium businesses, we prepare the ground for Austrian enterprises that can then build new trading relationships. For example, we achieve this through credit lines extended to local banks for private sector development in Armenia and Azerbaijan. With studies on subjects such as the market potential in Africa – particularly for renewable energies – we pave the way even in regions with which Austria does not yet have well-established business relations. As a development bank we are thus information gatherers and pioneers in these countries while at the same time creating new sources of income there through financing projects – true to our slogan of “Funding tomorrow’s prosperity”. Michael Wancata Andrea Hagmann 8 OeEB – Annual Report 2011 / Condensed Version Oesterreichische Entwicklungsbank AG – Funding tomorrow’s prosperity Vision, mission and principles GRI 4.8 Our mandate: We finance sustainable development. ■ We are Austria’s official development bank. We finance private sector projects in developing and newly industrialised countries and thus facilitate sustainable development. ■ We combine commercial finance with development cooperation objectives. Our special role allows us to transact deals even in the presence of elevated political and commercial risk. For our clients this unlocks investment capital for sustainable projects that are currently not being financed by the commercial banks operating in the target countries. ■ We take care to ensure that the projects make good development and business sense. Our terms are calibrated to be appropriate for the target markets while safeguarding the commercial viability of OeEB. We respect environmental and social standards and initiate corresponding development measures that work alongside or on the periphery of the financing projects. Our aim: We create better living conditions through a vibrant economy. ■ We work for better living conditions for people in developing and newly industrialised countries by boosting private enterprise. Our values: We are committed to ethical, respectful behaviour and to seeing the big picture. ■ We do our work for others honestly, reliably and respectfully. ■ We think and act in such a way as to always have in mind the mission of long-term environmental, social and economic development. ■ We see private enterprise as an engine of international development when it is careful with environmental resources and watches the social implications of its actions. 9 OeEB – Annual Report 2011 / Condensed Version Oesterreichische Entwicklungsbank AG – Funding tomorrow’s prosperity Our way of working: We are responsible and capable facilitators of development that fosters the capabilities and self-reliance of our clients. ■ We respect and strengthen the self-reliance of our partners in developing and transitional countries. We therefore work closely with them when weighing risks and devising solutions. ■ We always remain current in our financing expertise and specialised knowledge in development cooperation. ■ Working in close coordination with national and international development banks and financial institutions, we partner with them in the marketplace. ■ As a partner to the private sector, even in sometimes challenging conditions and equipped with finite resources, we strive to perform our diverse roles with conviction and a strong sense of purpose. Our attitude: We are committed to healthy working relationships. ■ We are respectful and fair with colleagues, principals, clients, partners and other stakeholders. ■ As employees, we appreciate the development aspect of our work that gives it special meaning and are committed to the aims of OeEB. ■ We share our knowledge with others. Working innovatively and resourcefully, we think unconventionally and focus on solutions. We are open to criticism and regard it as an opportunity for improvement. Our contribution: We foster economic development. ■ We make a special contribution to Austrian international development activities and thus to the improvement of living standards for people in less prosperous countries. ■ We work with Austrian companies, helping them to deepen their business relationships in difficult markets and creating new commercial opportunities for them. 10 OeEB – Annual Report 2011 / Condensed Version Development project cycle and approval responsibilities & procedures A. Development project cycle and approval responsibilities & procedures I. Business segments EC-8, EC-9 OeEB’s core business is economic development. OeEB provides expertise to implement the In the business segments of Investment Finance and foreign trade programmes of the Austrian Ministry Advisory Programmes, the development objectives of Finance. are of central importance. i. Project evaluation & decision process in investment finance Screening 쩪 Decision 쩪 Due diligence 쩪 Approvals 쩪 Contract 쩪 Project monitoring in principle signing and management ■ Quick check ■ Preliminary Yes ■ Based on: ■ By: ■ By OeEB ■ By two OeEB based on assessment of: and departments: questionnaire detailed feasibility study Supervisory project available site visit Board partner(s) Investment reports term sheet Finance & studies Business audited ■ Ascertain: & Development and financial Committee statements environmental and social Credit Risk development standards (see B.I.iii) Advisory Management impact development impact Board* information (see B.I.ii) * At the Federal Ministry of Finance FS-15, PR-1 For the projects proposed to OeEB, the client is The environmental and social effects are also expected to complete a questionnaire that permits assessed (for details, refer to sections B.I.ii and B.I.iii). a first informal check of whether the project is suitable for support by OeEB (sector exclusion lists The results of the evaluation in terms of developare found on the OeEB website at www.oe-eb.at). ment criteria and of all risks are presented to the decision-making bodies (the Supervisory Board, In this preliminary screening, a mutual understanding Business & Development Committee and Advisory is quickly reached with the client on the potential Board). for implementing the project. The appropriate contracts are then concluded with If the project is pursued further, the next step is the client and project implementation begins. a close scrutiny of the commercial viability and an analysis of the intended development effects. Among OeEB’s policy is to monitor and manage projects other ways, OeEB does this by using the Corporate continually for their full duration. Policy Project Rating Tool (GPR©) developed by Deutsche Investitionsund Entwicklungsgesellschaft This process is optimised on an ongoing basis mbH (DEG), the German development finance between the departments involved. All projects institution. are monitored. 11 OeEB – Annual Report 2011 / Condensed Version Development project cycle and approval responsibilities & procedures ii. Development impacts SO-1 Requirements for OeEB As a development bank, OeEB pursues not just ■ The particular strategic role of OeEB as commercial objectives but also development goals. a development bank in the project These compatible twin aims are expressed within (metric 3 of GPR©) OeEB’s mission statement: “We create better living conditions through a vibrant economy.” ■ OeEB as a self-supporting, profitable entity: The project’s contribution to OeEB’s return With GPR©, which is used by 60% of all EDFI on equity (metric 4 of GPR©) members and by other international development banks, projects are scored in a standardised and GPR© is used both ex ante (based on values transparent way on several criteria: expected at the time of project approval) and ex post (based on the actual data collected during the operating stages of the investment projects). Requirements for OeEB projects: In GPR© the scores on the four metrics described are combined in a single score for a project (on ■ Commercial viability: the project’s long-term a scale of 1 to 6, with 1 being best). profitability as a basis for its sustained existence (metric 1 of GPR©) At the portfolio level, OeEB aims for an overall GPR© score of 2.5 or better. ■ Development effectiveness: Development impacts of the project (metric 2 of GPR©) An analysis of the GPR© scores of OeEB’s projects in 2011 (based on the ex-ante assessments) showed the following distribution: Analysis of new project commitments by GPR© group* Target average GPR© score for whole portfolio: 2.5 or better (Percentage share based on the number of projects newly committed in the respective year that were rated using GPR©) 100% GPR 6 14% 20% 80% 37% GPR 5 GPR 4 60% 57% 60% GPR 3 40% 50% GPR 2 20% 29% 20% GPR 1 13% 0% 2009 2010 2011 Share of total as a percentage Total vol.: EUR 72 million Total vol.: EUR 69.3 million Total vol.: EUR 78.7 million of projects rated ex-ante (7 projects) (5 projects) (8 projects) Avg. GPR© rating = 1.9 Avg. GPR© rating = 2.0 Avg. GPR© rating = 2.3 * Distribution of scores based on a scale of 1 to 6. The highest possible score, GPR© 1, represents a “very good” project; GPR© 2 represents a “good” project. 12 OeEB – Annual Report 2011 / Condensed Version Development project cycle and approval responsibilities & procedures Development relevance of projects FS-7 All OeEB projects generate social benefit. This Central to the development relevance evaluation, special development relevance of the projects however, are qualitative effects, such as the project’s is measured by metric 2 of GPR©, based on a wide social and environmental impacts, training-andrange of factors. GPR© here takes into account development measures for staff, efficiency of resource the diversity of a development bank’s projects and use, the closing of gaps in basic infrastructure, and measures different effects in the individual the companies’ social responsibility. sectors. In the GPR© the evaluation of the different developExamples of quantitative effects considered in ment impacts, just like the project’s overall score, this evaluation are the number of employees in and is also expressed by a scoring system on a scale around a project (to capture the contribution to of 1 to 6, resulting in the so-called EPOL score. The improvement of personal incomes); the additional target is an EPOL score of 2 or better. government revenue that a company generates through taxes and other levies, and the installed An analysis of the EPOL scores of OeEB’s projects capacity of a power plant. by year (based on the ex-ante assessments) is presented in the following chart: Analysis of new project commitments by EPOL group* Target average EPOL score for whole portfolio: 2.0 or better (Percentage share based on the number of projects newly committed in the respective year that were rated using GPR©) 100% 12% EPOL 6 80% 40% EPOL 5 71% EPOL 4 60% 75% EPOL 3 40% 60% EPOL 2 20% 29% EPOL 1 13% 0% 2009 2010 2011 Share of total as a percentage Total vol.: EUR 72 million Total vol.: EUR 69.3 million Total vol.: EUR 78.7 million of projects rated ex-ante (7 projects) (5 projects) (8 projects) Avg. EPOL rating = 1.7 Avg. EPOL rating = 1.4 Avg. EPOL rating = 2.0 * Distribution of scores based on a scale of 1 to 6: EPOL 1 represents a “very good” project (the highest possible score); EPOL 2 represents a “good” project. 13 OeEB – Annual Report 2011 / Condensed Version Development project cycle and approval responsibilities & procedures An analysis of some quantitative effects (ex ante) The projects are also an important factor in private of the projects signed in 2011 showed the following sector development in disadvantaged regions results: and thus must be seen in the light of MDG 8, fostering a global partnership for development. ■ The projects financed by OeEB in 2011 employ 6,395 people. For detailed information on the MDGs, see www.un.org/millenniumgoals/. ■ OeEB extended credit lines totalling EUR 17.4 million to local financial institutions in 2011 and In 2011 a results framework was developed for thus enables an estimated 2,872 micro enterOeEB. This planning and management tool prises and 38 small and medium companies describes and measures both the goals and goal in developing and newly industrialised countries achievement and thus provides information on to obtain financing for setting up and expanding how well OeEB fulfils its mandate. their business. The resulting additional jobs improve the personal income situation and are To measure the accomplishment of the developthus a basis for better living conditions. ment-related, economic and strategic goals of OeEB, the framework assigns various indicators to ■ OeEB places a strong emphasis on projects them (such as the amount of newly installed that contribute to climate protection. In 2011 capacity from renewable energy, the geographic OeEB provided EUR 53.6 million for projects distribution of projects and the number of people in renewable energy and energy efficiency. who have benefited from capacity-building activities). This analysis of performance against objectives is conducted at the portfolio level. This The GPR© evaluation of the projects implemented enables the Executive Board of OeEB to monitor in 2011 demonstrates that they also contribute the achievement of objectives on an ongoing to the achievement of the Millennium Development basis and make timely operational changes where Goals (MDG): appropriate. For instance, the involvement of OeEB in microThe different indicators of the results framework finance and in the financing of small and medium are measured annually and then presented in enterprises in the agricultural sector is instrumena short report, giving the public and stakeholders tal in making progress towards MDG 1 – halving a clear picture of the results achieved by OeEB. poverty and extreme hunger. The results of the first monitoring round are being The OeEB projects make a significant contribution published in spring 2012 at www.oe-eb.at. in the ecological dimension and thus to ensuring environmental sustainability (MDG 7). 14 OeEB – Annual Report 2011 / Condensed Version Development project cycle and approval responsibilities & procedures iii. Environmental and social matters* FS 2, FS 3, HR-1, In the words of the mission statement, OeEB First, the projects are classified into categories EN-26, FS 8, finances sustainable development. This requires according to the risk of possible negative impacts on GRI 4.8 OeEB always to remain mindful of the environmental the environment and people. This is done using and resource management and social soundness the Environmental and Social Risk Indicator (EaSI) of the financed projects. It is the only way to tool developed by DEG: achieve lasting and fundamental improvement in the life situation of people in developing countries Category C: Low risk and emerging economies. Category B: Medium risk When financing projects, in addition to OeEB’s Category B+**: Elevated medium risk own adherence to local and national environmental Category A: High risk and social standards, the bank also strives for the alignment of its clients’ business practices with international environmental, social and human In the financial sector, the categorisation is rights standards. performed according to the share of risky projects in the portfolio of the banks that receive OeEB As a fundamental benchmark, OeEB observes financing. the ecological and social standards agreed by EDFI, FS 5, FS 11 >> the Association of European Development Finance Most of OeEB’s new projects in 2011 fell into Institutions. These include the Performance categories B+ (in the real economy) and B (in the Standards on Social and Environmental Sustainability financial sector). developed by World Bank subsidiary IFC, which have become the established market benchmark, as This classification by risk is the first step in the well as the Environmental, Health And Safety Guideenvironmental and social assessment. Based on the lines of the World Bank Group and international risk category, the lenders in a project, under the conventions of the International Labour Organisation. coordination of the lead arranger, perform the detailed assessment in the second step. The governing (see www.oe-eb.at/de/leitlinien; principle is that the intensity of scrutiny increases www.oe-eb.at/de/osn/DownloadCenter/richtlinien/ with the level of risk. The initially identified potential EDFI-Principles-Responsible-Financing.pdf; impacts on people and the environment are analysed www.ifc.org/ifcext/sustainability.nsf/Content/ in greater depth (often by independent specialists) Publications_ByPerformanceStandard). and mitigative measures are formulated together with the client to cushion these effects. This package In 2011 the internal environmental and social of measures is frequently put in the form of an compliance process, which each project undergoes, action plan that is incorporated in the loan agreement was aligned by OeEB with the guidelines adopted as a binding condition. As the client is ultimately by EDFI. responsible for the actual implementation of these measures, the assessment also considers the client’s willingness, expertise and capacity in this respect. * In the projects of OeEB the indirect environmental aspects are much more relevant than direct ones, as OeEB’s physical operations are purely office-based (also see environmental impacts in the sustainability report of our parent institution, OeKB). ** As decided by EDFI, the B+ category was added for project and corporate finance. 15 OeEB – Annual Report 2011 / Condensed Version Development project cycle and approval responsibilities & procedures OeEB backs only those projects where the project social risks, the monitoring must be performed partner is prepared to assume its responsibility by independent experts. Client relationship manageconcerning the measures determined by this process. ment generally also calls for on-site visits to verify Through the use of resources from the Advisory the information received. Programmes, OeEB is able to support clients’ efforts in this regard (such as by providing funding for the Should a project partner not adhere to the agreed services of specialist consultants). principles, a joint process is cooperatively devised to implement the standards in the execution of The compliance with environmental and social the project. standards is regularly monitored over the life of the project. In projects with high environmental and iv. Profiles of selected projects in 2011 ProCredit Georgia – Effectiveness of OeEB credit line assessed To see the family B. stand proudly among a large The role of OeEB assortment of bags in their shop in Tbilisi is to gain the clear impression that the credit line jointly When ProCredit asked KfW and OeEB in spring extended to ProCredit Georgia by OeEB and 2008 about a credit line for MSMEs, it was evident Germany’s KfW development bank in 2008 has to the Development Bank of Austria that funding had the desired effect: helping smaller businesses must be provided for the Georgian financial sector. and creating new sources of income. This ensures that the local financial lender can make loans to MSMEs – exactly in line with OeEB’s The OeEB/KfW credit line allowed ProCredit mandate to create income opportunities and jobs Georgia to make loans to micro, small and medium by building up the economy. enterprises (MSME). This funding source for the family B. did not dry up even in difficult times. A few months later, the political situation and financial climate in Georgia deteriorated dramatically. The family jumped at the opportunity to fund their The armed conflict between Georgia and Russia in small business with a modest loan from ProCredit. August 2008 made international investors lose They drove across the border into Turkey to buy confidence in the country. And the opportunities for bags and shoes, then sold them from a small store international borrowing that remained to Georgian in Tbilisi. Their entrepreneurial spirit has been banks were further decimated by the worldwide rewarded as the business has thrived. Today they financial and economic crisis. already sell the bags and shoes out of a larger shop and are considering opening an additional location. 16 OeEB – Annual Report 2011 / Condensed Version Development project cycle and approval responsibilities & procedures Nonetheless, KfW and OeEB together made available The findings of the assessment show that the path a credit line of USD 47.5 million at the end of 2008 taken was the right one. The evaluator concluded to support ProCredit. At the same time, the Georgian that the credit line fully achieved its development bank was managing its business skilfully: It successpurpose. Through it, ProCredit Georgia had access fully maintained its stock of savings deposits while to long-term, affordable credit even in an extremely the secure financing base enabled it to keep lending. difficult period. When money was scarcest, in As a result of its good business performance, a time of crisis, micro, small and medium enterprises ProCredit became less dependent on debt financing in Georgia thus gained the opportunity to borrow and thus reduced the size of the credit line in for business start-ups and expansion. In parallel, December 2010. awareness campaigns expanded the knowledge of ProCredit’s customers about financial products. FS 16 >> Development impacts ProCredit was able to position itself as a profitable financial institution and is now the third largest KfW and OeEB jointly commissioned a review by bank in Georgia. It was also the only bank in Georgia an independent expert to assess whether the credit to remain profitable between 2008 and 2011. line is the right tool for supporting MSMEs and whether the project therefore makes good sense The project evaluation, conducted in 2011 with from a development perspective. Based on the funds from OeEB’s Advisory Programmes, bears DAC evaluation criteria of the OECD, the consultant out visitors’ first impression from the family B. assessed the project’s relevance, effectiveness, shop in Tbilisi: By providing credit lines that ensure efficiency, broader development impacts and financing for MSMEs, sustainable new income sustainability. opportunities are created that lead to better living conditions for people in developing and transitional economies. 17 OeEB – Annual Report 2011 / Condensed Version Development project cycle and approval responsibilities & procedures Bulk cargo terminal in Mexico A crane from the Austrian Alps will soon help lift As development banks, OeEB and DEG were able Mexican exports: OeEB and Deutsche Investitionsto offer longer-term finance for the construction und Entwicklungsgesellschaft mbH (DEG) together of a bulk cargo terminal. Of the total investment are financing a bulk cargo terminal on Mexico’s of more than USD 50 million, the two development Pacific coast. The order for the crane went to banks are contributing USD 30 million. OeEB and Austrian manufacturer Liebherr. The terminal in the DEG are thus stepping in as long-term lenders port of Lázaro Cárdenas is used to ship mineral for an infrastructure project important to Mexico. bulk commodities such as coal and iron ore. The new terminal increases the shipping capacity to The region around Lázaro Cárdenas in the as much as 2 million tonnes per year, thus removing Mexican state of Michoacán has significant iron an obstacle to growth in imports and exports. In ore deposits. To date the mining of this ore particular, it creates new opportunities to tap the has been limited by a lack of transportation and region’s iron ore reserves. This strategically significant port capacity for shipping it. infrastructure project strengthens Mexico’s private sector and thus indirectly creates additional jobs. As well, with the economic growth in Asia, the ports The country is able to improve its trade balance, and on the Pacific coast of Mexico are becoming ever further positive development effects are generated more important. The seaport of Lázaro Cárdenas, by the associated tax revenues and technology while already regarded as the gateway to the Asian transfer. To prevent possible harm to the environmarket, was held back by insufficient capacity. ment, OeEB and DEG have tied the financing to the Port expansion had foundered for lack of financing, implementation of an environmental and social as the economic crisis made commercial banks action plan. unwilling to approve long-term loans. 18 OeEB – Annual Report 2011 / Condensed Version Development project cycle and approval responsibilities & procedures Şekerbank: Energy efficiency in Turkey In times of global climate change and scarcer fossil To raise awareness around energy efficiency and fuels, the world needs sustainable, eco-friendly energy allow financing products for MSMEs and households solutions: Especially in rapidly growing regions such to become firmly established requires technical as Turkey, it is also the efficient use of energy that assistance both on the banking and customer side. matters. As the economy grows, so do energy demand Through an advisory programme, OeEB therefore and carbon dioxide emissions. OeEB is therefore supports capacityand knowledge-building for bank (jointly with KfW of Germany) extending a credit line employees and customers. to Şekerbank that enables this Turkish bank to issue special-purpose loans for energy efficiency investAt the same time, by way of a risk participation, OeEB ments; the project also includes awareness-building is providing EUR 10.8 million to Şekerbank, which among Şekerbank staff and customers. will use the funds to issue special-purpose loans. The goal is to facilitate energy efficiency investments Currently in Turkey only about 26% of energy requirethrough access to these loans and expand the ments are met from domestic sources, leaving the innovative product portfolio of Şekerbank. country heavily dependent on expensive imports, especially of oil. To improve the situation, the Turkish Generally, such investment programmes have already government in its current development plan has been implemented in Turkey’s public sector and placed particular emphasis on security of energy for manufacturers and large companies. But when it supply and better use of renewable energy. However, comes to energy efficiency investment products for many banks, companies and consumers are still medium-sized and small companies and households, reluctant to lend or borrow for investment in energy there is a gap in the Turkish market. The provision of efficiency measures. The main causes are insufficient funding for Şekerbank helps to close this gap. OeEB’s expertise in identifying and utilising opportunities engagement is therefore solely in the financing of to reduce energy consumption, and the frequent lack smaller projects, which is available only to private of financing facilities for energy efficiency projects. sector MSMEs and households. 19 OeEB – Annual Report 2011 / Condensed Version 20 OeEB – Annual Report 2011 / Condensed Version Management report B. Management report I. Business and financial review i. Business activities and terms of reference FS-15, FS-16 Acting on behalf of the Austrian federal government, Working with the client, OeEB develops solutions OeEB supports the development and expansion that are tailored precisely to the specific project, primarily of private sector projects in developing to the current financial and business situation and countries. to the risk profile of the country in question. The legislative basis for the activities of OeEB was A key aspect of client selection is the application created by an amendment to Austria’s Export of responsible-finance principles: In this regard, Guarantees Act (in German: AusfuhrförderungsOeEB bears in mind environmental and social criteria gesetz, or AusfFG). as well as transparency and corporate governance standards. On this basis OeEB lends its support to projects that require long-term financing and that have the ability Development transactions naturally entail high to repay such loans out of their own resources. Every project and country risks, which OeEB neutralises project must also have a positive sustainable impact through guarantees from the Austrian government. on local and regional economic development. For this cover, OeEB pays a risk-adjusted premium to the Ministry of Finance. Project eligibility for OeEB support is not tied to Austrian goods and services. However, the use of Before individual deals are presented for approval expertise and capacity available in Austria is intended to the Supervisory Board and to the panels specified and encouraged. In principle, any company from for this purpose by law, the project risk and country an industrialised or developing country can become risk are carefully analysed. Some elements of this a client of OeEB. OeEB provides solutions not offered assessment are outsourced to OeKB under a service by commercial banks in the various developing agreement. countries; its role is thus only supplementary to that of commercial banks. OeEB offers the full range of long-term financing options, from equity finance to loans. ii. Business performance Investment Finance segment In the year under review, OeEB was approached As risk-sharing forms a key component of the with numerous project ideas. For the eight projects business strategy, OeEB collaborates with other approved in the year, contracts totalling EUR 78.69 bilateral or multilateral development banks on million were signed. most of the projects underwritten. The required approvals for these projects were The projects signed in the 2011 financial year obtained from the Supervisory Board, the Business related to credit lines to financial institutions in & Development Committee and the Advisory the South Caucasus, Turkey and India, as well Board. Both the latter bodies are stipulated in the as infrastructure investment in Central America. Export Guarantees Act. The Business & Development Committee met four times in 2011. 21 OeEB – Annual Report 2011 / Condensed Version Management report FS 8, FS 6 > Amid the uncertainty in financial markets, not As most of the transactions were signed in the GRI 2.7 >> all project deals that had been scheduled to close second half of the year, some of the disbursements in 2011 could actually be finalised in the year under these projects will occur in 2012 instead under review. of last year. Investment Finance projects By signed volume Regional distribution Africa Asia 12.71% 41.16% Latin America 32.41% Europe 13.72% Supraregional Total 0% 100% Sectoral distribution of new commitments in 2011 Financial sector Infrastructure 55% 45% Total 100% 22 OeEB – Annual Report 2011 / Condensed Version Management report Number Off balance On balance Total of sheet sheet project volume projects EUR million EUR million EUR million Movement in project volume in the Investment Finance segment Project volume at 1 January 2011 as per 2010 financial statements 21 236.23 Valuation effect of change in USD exchange rate, at 31 December 2011 2.07 Project volume at 1 January 2011 (at 2010 year-end exchange rate) 238.30 Of which: undrawn credit facilities 97.50 Of which: contingent liabilities 27.65 Disbursements under financing commitments from prior years -52.19 New contracts signed in 2011 8 78.69 Equity investments, loans, guarantees Of which: undrawn credit facilities 44.71 Of which: contingent liabilities 10.80 Repayments received in 2011 -2.19 -5.13 Limit adjustment on facilities from prior years -19.71 -19.71 Total project volume at 31 December 2011 292.15 Of which off balance sheet 106.57 Carrying amount on balance sheet 29 185.58 EUR/USD rate at 31 December 2011: 1.2939 Advisory Programmes segment FS 6 >> Through technical assistance under OeEB’s Advisory In the 2011 financial year, the Ministry of Finance Programmes (AP), projects can be prepared and approved AP funds of approximately EUR 17.14 improved to enhance their development effectiveness. million. Examples of measures that may be funded with AP monies are studies, fees to hire specialists, projectIn 2011, OeEB concluded contracts for 8 AP related training and upgrading of qualifications, projects totalling EUR 4.24 million. These as well as the introduction of international standards. contracts also include projects approved in the prior financial years, but signed in 2011. 23 OeEB – Annual Report 2011 / Condensed Version Management report FS 13 >> In 2011, OeEB’s fourth year of operation, a sector Financial sector development and the public’s on which the bank focused was energy. A study resulting improved access to financial services on energy potential in Serbia was completed and represents an important element of OeEB’s developOeEB agreed with a commercial bank to launch ment goals. The actual achievement of this was a financial product for renewable energy specifically evaluated in the case of the credit line investment. extended to ProCredit Georgia (see the project profile in section B.I.iv above). The promotion of responsible finance was furthered through a project to set up credit bureaus, which In 2011, OeEB disbursed EUR 9.56 million in AP monitor consumers’ debt situation. This can help funds to project partners. The disbursements prevent excessive debt loads. are tied to progress in the respective projects and thus help ensure the achievement of development objectives. Regional distribution of new AP project commitments Sectoral distribution of new AP project commitments added in 2011 (at 31 December 2011) added in 2011 (at 31 December 2011) Total new signed volume: EUR 4.2 million (8 projects) Total new signed volume: EUR 4.2 million (8 projects) Regional distribution Sectoral distribution (based on OECD classification) Africa 15.11% Latin America Energy Generation and Supply Banking and Financial Services 1.32% 1.32% 23.84% Not relevant to Unallocated/ Asia Agriculture OECD–DAC unspecified 0.22% 1.65% 1.65% 0.71% Europe Unallocated/ 0.0% unspecified 0.71% Business and Supraregional Other Services 82.64% 70.83% Total Total 100% 100% 24 OeEB – Annual Report 2011 / Condensed Version Management report Foreign Trade Programme Financial results With its expertise in development and foreign trade, The 2011 financial year closed with profit for the OeEB provides advice to the Ministry of Finance, year of EUR 848,910 (prior year: EUR 781,648). especially in collaborations with international financial After transfers to reserves and before distribution or institutions (IFIs). retention, the unallocated profit for the year was EUR 274,095 (prior year: EUR 280,484). The aim of the participation in IFI programmes is the resulting know-how transfer to Austrian businesThanks to the higher project volume, operating ses and the greater support by IFIs to improve busiincome rose significantly from the prior year’s EUR ness conditions for companies in selected countries. 4.26 million to EUR 5.47 million in the year under The IFI programmes are as a rule selected by the review. A major component of this result – alongside Ministry of Finance. In 2011 two further projects combined net interest income and securities income were identified: The Ukraine Agri-Finance Project and of about EUR 3.59 million (prior year: EUR 2.52 the Russia Resource Efficiency Programme are million) – was the net fee and commission income administered by OeEB. For administering the Advisory of around EUR 1.86 million (prior year: EUR 1.71 Programmes and Foreign Trade Programme, OeEB million). The fee and commission income included receives a fee. management fees from the financings, fees for OeEB’s management services rendered under the Advisory Programmes for the Ministry of Finance, Other Activities segment and fees for developmentand foreign-trade-related consulting services to the Ministry. In 2011 the cooperation with other development banks was expanded, particularly through The operating expenses of approximately EUR 3.48 the Neighbourhood Investment Facility (NIF) of the million (prior year: EUR 2.68 million) reflected the European Commission and the Western Balkans bank’s growth and consisted largely of staff costs Investment Framework (WBIF), an initiative for of EUR 2.38 million (prior year: EUR 1.79 million) and the countries of Southeastern Europe. OeEB is a other administrative expenses of EUR 1.08 million member of the Financial Institutions Group of both (prior year: EUR 0.88 million). the NIF and WBIF. In addition, OeEB is active in another project with the European Commission: The resulting operating profit in the 2010 financial The EU-Africa Infrastructure Trust Fund (EUAITF), year was about EUR 1.99 million, up from EUR which supports infrastructure projects in Africa. 1.58 million in the prior year. After valuation effects Monies from the Advisory Programmes were and taxes, profit for the year was approximately contributed to all these projects in the prior years. EUR 0.85 million (prior year: EUR 0.78 million). All three facilities are to generate financing In view of the good result, EUR 0.57 million of this projects with co-financing from OeEB. profit was transferred to reserves (prior year: EUR 0.50 million) to further strengthen OeEB’s ability to generate future growth. At the year-end, profit available for distribution was EUR 315,099 (prior year: EUR 0.31 million). 25 OeEB – Annual Report 2011 / Condensed Version Management report iii. Office locations GRI 2.4 The registered office of OeEB is located at OeEB has no branch offices in Austria or other Strauchgasse 3, 1010 Vienna, Austria. countries. iv. Financial and non-financial performance indicators Regulatory capital requirement 2011 2010 under section 22 Austrian Banking Act Financial performance indicators Risk-weighted assets under section 22 (2) Banking Act (credit risk) 560 322 Risk-weighted assets under section 22i Banking Act (operational risk) 4,236 3,103 Minimum regulatory capital requirement under section 22 (1) Banking Act For credit risk (2011: 8% of 560; 2010: of 322) 45 26 For operational risk (2011: 15% of 4,236; 2010: of 3,103) 635 465 For market risk (open foreign currency positions) 0 10 Total 680 501 Available regulatory capital under section 23 (14) Banking Act 7,507 6,276 OeEB held sufficient regulatory capital throughout the financial year. Earnings per share As the share capital is divided into 50,000 no par-value bearer shares and profit for the year was EUR 848,909.87, earnings per share amounted to EUR 16.98. 26 OeEB – Annual Report 2011 / Condensed Version Management report Analysis of expenses 2011 2010 EUR EUR EC-1 Administrative expenses a) Staff costs 2,382,799.85 1,789,063.57 aa) Salaries 1,920,621.20 1,461,668.04 bb) Statutory social security costs, pay-based levies, and pay-based other compulsory contributions 384,636.23 269,291.51 cc) Other social expenses 34,027.09 25,855.23 dd) Expenses for retirement and other post-employment benefits 21,559.35 17,325.27 ee) Contributions to termination benefit funds 21,955.98 14,923.52 b) Other administrative expenses 1,084,506.94 883,428.89 Total 3,467,306.79 2,672,492.46 Tax expense Income tax 502,515.38 372,740.81 Other taxes 0 0 Total 502,515.38 372,740.81 27 OeEB – Annual Report 2011 / Condensed Version Management report II. Outlook and risks for the bank i. Business outlook Based on numerous conversations with clients and As the volume of business grows, continuing development partners, OeEB’s business is expected timely adjustment of staff capacity will be required. to grow briskly in 2012. Current indications point The probable increase in business should be to high demand for support from development banks. reflected in revenue. In OeEB’s fourth year in business, much attention was devoted to optimising the bank’s internal processes. ii. Significant risks and uncertainties The progressive return of the financial and economic But as the role of development banks – particularly in crisis heightens the uncertainty as to the trend such trying times – is to be stable and dependable in OeEB’s financing business. It remains to be seen partners and to fill the gaps left by commercial banks, to what extent rising funding costs can be passed OeEB sees good opportunities for the continuing through to clients. In difficult times, commercial expansion of its business. OeEB, while duly considebanks frequently withdraw from projects for reasons ring project risks, thus plans to further increase its of risk control. volume of business in 2012. iii. Overview of risk policy and strategy Strategic approach to risk management GRI 4.11 To cover the very high project and country risks, not undertake any projects on the basis of its equity OeEB receives a 100% guarantee from the Austrian without obtaining an Austrian government guarantee. government for every financing transaction. OeEB is a wholly-owned subsidiary of OeKB and Project risks are assessed conservatively, which follows a risk policy and strategy consistent with that also has the effect of reducing reputation risk of the OeKB Group. In 2010, internal control systems to OeEB. for the purposes of the Austrian Banking Act were developed together with OeKB for OeEB’s Investment In view of the backing by the Republic of Austria Finance and Advisory Programmes business prothrough government guarantees, OeEB’s share cesses and the Foreign Trade Programme segment. capital of EUR 5.0 million represents and meets the These systems of internal control are subject to an minimum requirement under the Austrian Banking annual audit. Act. In the next several years OeEB will therefore 28 OeEB – Annual Report 2011 / Condensed Version Management report The overarching goal of the OeKB Group’s enterFor emergencies and various crisis scenarios, prise-wide risk management (the Internal Capital the operational risk management policy Adequacy Assessment Process, or ICAAP) is to sets out emergency and crisis response teams, assure the entity’s continuing existence as a going responsibilities and procedures. concern. As a wholly-owned subsidiary of OeKB, OeEB is covered by the Group ICAAP and thus does There is also a designated staff member tasked not require its own formal ICAAP. In the interest with assuring that the internal control system of uniformity of measurement methods across the complies with legal requirements. This employee Group, the intention is to assess OeEB’s risks works closely with the operational risk manager on a quarterly basis consistent with the standards of OeKB and the organisation section of OeKB’s of OeKB. Risk statistics will thus be produced in OBUS department (OBUS stands for Organi2012 based on a risk analysis. sation, Construction, Environment and Security). Like the bank’s risk management as a whole, Risk management organisation the internal control system is subject to ongoing scrutiny by Internal Audit. Under the Austrian Banking Act the full Executive Board is responsible for managing OeEB’s risks Under an agreement with OeKB, the compliance relating to banking transactions and banking operaofficer function is outsourced to OeKB. However, tions, for ensuring capital adequacy in respect of there is a central contact person within OeEB the risks taken, and for establishing the organisation for compliance matters. that this requires. In this context, regard must be had to the proportionality of the bank’s enterprise-wide risk management (i.e., of the methods, Risk types considered in bank-wide systems and processes of risk management) with risk management the structure and size of the bank’s risks. In the interest of this proportionality, given OeEB’s ■ Credit risk business sector and the nature and scale of its specific business and risk structure, the Executive Credit risk is the risk of unexpected loss as a Board considers that a largely FMA-compliant risk result of the default or deterioration in credit quality management organisation is appropriate. From 2011, of counterparties. To a degree consistent with the the Risk Management Committee has the authority nature of its business activities and with the bank’s and responsibility to decide on appropriate actions size, OeEB observes the “FMA Minimum Standards and processes to implement the risk policy and for Lending and Other Transactions Subject to strategy set by the Executive Board and approved Default Risks” issued by the Austrian Financial by the Supervisory Board. Market Authority in 2005. In the light of its business structure, OeEB distinguishes the following types Operational risk management by OeEB involves of credit risk: the monitoring and control of the operational risk profile, the development of strategies and processes for the control of operational risk, and business continuity management in collaboration with OeKB’s operational risk manager. 29 OeEB – Annual Report 2011 / Condensed Version Management report ■ Operational risk Counterparty risk/default risk: Operational risk is the risk of loss resulting from the inadequacy or failure of internal processes, people the risk of loss as a result of a borrower’s failure or systems, or from external events. Operational risks to honour its payment obligations or of the default include legal risk, business risk and reputation risk. of a counterparty (such as a borrower) The central integration of operational risk Concentration risk: management (including information security) in the bank-wide risk management, as well as the corporate the risk of loss as a result of high credit exposure culture, business continuity plans, insurance cover to individual borrowers or to groups of related and similar centrally manageable measures, together borrowers. Country limits and customer limits have form the framework within which the individual been established and are reviewed quarterly. staff members are required to exercise personal responsibility for everyday risk management in their sphere of accountability. OeEB works closely in ■ Market risk these areas with OeKB (and is physically located within OeKB’s premises). Market risk is the risk of loss as a result of changes in market parameters. It can be subdivided into For emergencies and various crisis scenarios, interest rate risk, currency risk, equity risk and other the operational risk management policy identifies price risks. emergency and crisis response teams and sets out responsibilities and procedures; an emergency response manual has also been produced. ■ Liquidity risk Liquidity risks can be divided into term liquidity ■ Other risks risk and withdrawal/call risk, as well as structural risk (funding liquidity risk). Other risks are: Liquidity is currently managed and made available Strategic risk: on a project basis in coordination between OeEB and OeKB. Term liquidity risk is the risk of change in the the risk of negative effects on capital or earnings length of time for which capital is committed to or as a result of strategic business decisions and/or by OeEB. Withdrawal/call risk is the risk that deposits changes in the business environment. received are unexpectedly withdrawn or that loan commitments to borrowers are unexpectedly utilised. Reputation risk: Both term liquidity risks and withdrawal/call risks are low as a result of OeEB’s business structure the risk of adverse consequences from the way in and contractual arrangements. Liquidity is monitored which the organisation is perceived by stakeholders and controlled with the aid of weekly cash flow (the shareholder, staff, clients, government, and projections. others). As OeEB’s funding is obtained largely through Business risk: OeKB, the latter’s standing in the market facilitates the availability of financing to OeEB at any time. the risk of deterioration in earnings as a result of unexpected changes in business volume or in margins. 30 OeEB – Annual Report 2011 / Condensed Version Management report Strategic risks and reputational risks to OeEB The purpose of the internal control system is to arise from its special position. As a result of support management such that it is able to ensure its mandate, OeEB’s only principal is the Republic effective and continually improving internal controls of Austria. A quantitative assessment of this risk regarding accounting. The system is intended to would be difficult to perform and no such assessensure compliance with policies and regulations and ment is planned. OeEB continually monitors to create conditions conducive to the effectiveness potential changes in its operating environment that of specific control activities in the key accounting have fundamental significance for its business processes. activities and considers such developments in its business strategy. The Internal Audit function (performed by the OeKB Group’s Internal Audit department) independently and regularly verifies the adherence to internal rules, Key features of the internal control system including also the accounting rules. The head of in relation to the accounting process Group Internal Audit reports the findings directly to the Executive Board of OeEB. The Internal Audit OeEB outsources all accounting activities to its activities are outsourced to OeKB under a service parent institution, Oesterreichische Kontrollbank agreement. Aktiengesellschaft (OeKB). The specific requirements are defined in a service agreement. In terms of the accounting process, the internal control system ■ Control environment thus meets the same standard as that of OeKB. The most fundamental aspect of the control environWithin the Executive Board of OeEB, Michael Wancata ment is the corporate culture in which management has responsibility for the accounting function and and employees operate. OeEB continually works for the establishment and design of a system of to improve communication and the transmission of internal control and of risk management that meets its basic corporate values. the bank’s needs, particularly in relation to the accounting process. The implementation of the interThe manner of implementation of the internal nal control system is effected jointly with or solely control system in respect of the accounting process by OeKB, according to the specific requirements is set out in the written internal policies and of OeEB. procedures of the accounting function. The responsibilities in relation to the internal control system The key features of the internal control system can have been adjusted to fit the company’s organibe described based on the definition used by the sational structure, in order to ensure a satisfactory Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the control environment that meets the requirements. Treadway Commission (COSO). The COSO framework consists of five interrelated components: the control environment, risk assessment, control activities, information and communication, and monitoring. 31 OeEB – Annual Report 2011 / Condensed Version Management report ■ Risk assessment ■ Information and communication Risks relating to the accounting process are identified The financial reporting requirements are regularly and monitored by OeKB Group management and updated by management and communicated to the OeEB management, with a focus on material risks. staff concerned. The preparation of the financial statements regularly As well, the Group accounting staff members requires the use of estimates, which involves the involved receive frequent training regarding changes inherent risk that future developments will differ from in international accounting practices in order these estimates. As all loans extended by OeEB are to be able to detect risks of inadvertent reporting guaranteed by the Republic of Austria, this estimation deficiencies at an early stage. risk is particularly relevant to, e.g., assumptions regarding the value of interests in companies. ■ Monitoring ■ Control activities Ultimate responsibility for the enterprise-wide ongoing monitoring of business processes rests In addition to the Supervisory Board and Executive with management and the Supervisory Board. Board, the general control environment also The respective department heads are responsible for encompasses middle management, such as the the monitoring of the relevant areas of activity; for department heads. example, checks and validations are conducted at regular intervals. Group Internal Audit is also involved All control activities are applied “in-process” during in the monitoring process. The system of internal the regular ongoing operation of the business control likewise performs a monitoring and oversight processes in order to ensure that potential errors function. in financial reporting are detected and corrected. The findings of the monitoring activities are reported The Executive Board, working with OeKB, is resto management and the Supervisory Board. ponsible for ensuring that the levels of the reporting The Executive Board regularly receives summarised hierarchy are structured such that a given activity financial reports such as monthly financial statements and the controls on the activity are not performed by as well as risk reports. Financial statements intended the same person (i.e., ensuring the strict separation for publication undergo a final review by accounting of responsibilities). management staff (at Group and OeEB level) and by the OeEB Executive Board before being forwarded Control activities regarding information technology to the OeEB Supervisory Board. security represent a cornerstone of the internal control system. Thus, the separation of sensitive responsibilities is supported by the restrictive assignment of IT privileges. SAP ERP Central Component 6.0 software is used for accounting and financial reporting. The functioning and effectiveness of this accounting system is assured, among other ways, by automated IT controls installed in the system. OeEB’s IT function has been outsourced to OeKB; as a result, the same high security standards are applied as at the parent institution. 32 OeEB – Annual Report 2011 / Condensed Version 33 OeEB – Annual Report 2011 / Condensed Version Financial statements 2011 C. Financial statements 2011 1. Balance sheet at 31 December 2011 31 Dec. 2011 31 Dec. 2010 EUR EUR ’000 Assets 01 Balances at central banks 1,000.00 1 02 Loans and advances to banks 112,522,045.22 71,613 a) Repayable on demand 25,038,187.04 20,961 b) Other loans and advances 87,483,858.18 50,652 Of which to intra-group companies 25,036,870.03 20,961 03 Loans and advances to customers 31,222,432.99 512 04 Bonds and other fixed income securities 3,000,983.58 2,780 a) Of other issuers (i.e., non-public sector issuers) 3,000,983.58 2,780 05 Equity shares and other variable income securities 67,467,624.56 61,794 06 Interests in companies 31,100.00 25 07 Non-current intangible assets 7,127.04 13 08 Other assets 11,987,164.70 10,582 Of which fiduciary assets 11,204,628.39 10,157 09 Prepaid expenses 54,434.69 48 Total assets 226,293,912.78 147,367 Memo items 1. Foreign assets 202,242,141.92 124,892 34 OeEB – Annual Report 2011 / Condensed Version Financial statements 2011 31 Dec. 2011 31 Dec. 2010 EUR EUR ’000 Liabilities and equity 01 Deposits from banks 186,147,002.76 112,588 a) With agreed maturity or withdrawal notice 186,147,002.76 112,588 Of which from intra-group companies 176,117,749.56 107,583 02 Other financial liabilities 31,039,287.09 26,972 Of which fiduciary liabilities 11,204,628.39 10,157 03 Accruals and deferred income 996,088.54 543 04 Provisions 1,332,084.39 1,065 a) Tax provisions 282,061.20 225 b) Other provisions 1,050,023.19 840 05 Share capital 5,000,000.00 5,000 06 Retained earnings 1,457,147.50 885 a) Statutory reserve 137,147.50 95 b) Other reserves 1,320,000.00 790 07 Liability reserve under section 23 (6) Banking Act 7,203.50 5 08 Profit available for distribution 315,099.00 309 Total liabilities and equity 226,293,912.78 147,367 Memo items 1. Contingent liabilities (guarantees and assets pledged as collateral security) 2. Off-balance sheet credit risks 36,262,131.57 27,405 3. Available regulatory capital under section 23 (14) Banking Act 70,310,773.75 96,564 4. Minimum regulatory capital requirement 7,507,223.96 6,277 under section 22 (1) Banking Act 680,125.56 501 5. Foreign liabilities 10,032,165.30 5,005 35 OeEB – Annual Report 2011 / Condensed Version Financial statements 2011 2. Income statement for the year ended 31 December 2011 2011 2010 EUR EUR ’000 1. Interest and similar income 3,665,369.77 1,486 Of which from fixed income securities 53,881.62 61 2. – Interest and similar expense 2,783,997.49 1,423 I. Net interest income 881,372.88 63 3. + Income from securities and share of profit of other companies 2,713,134.31 2,463 a) Income from equity shares, other ownership interests and variable income securities 2,713,134.31 2,463 4. + Fee and commission income 3,851,368.55 2,723 5. – Fee and commission expense 1,990,139.14 1,014 6. + Other operating income 12,494.09 27 II. Operating income 5,468,230.09 4,262 7. – Administrative expenses 3,467,306.79 2,672 a) Staff costs 2,382,799.85 1,789 aa) Salaries 1,920,621.20 1,462 bb) Statutory social security costs, pay-based levies, and pay-based other compulsory contributions 384,636.23 269 cc) Other social expenses 34,027.09 26 dd) Expenses for retirement and other post-employment benefits 21,559.35 17 ee) Contributions to termination benefit funds 21,955.98 15 b) Other administrative expenses 1,084,506.94 883 8. – Impairment of non-current intangible assets 6,311.02 7 9. – Other operating expenses 3,627.11 2 III. Operating expenses -3,477,244.92 2,681 IV. Operating profit 1,990,985.17 1,581 10. ± Net loss on valuation of loans and advances and securities -639,559.92 427 36 OeEB – Annual Report 2011 / Condensed Version Financial statements 2011 2011 2010 EUR EUR ’000 V. Profit before tax 1,351,425.25 1,154 11. – Income tax 502,515.38 373 VI. Profit for the year 848,909.87 781 12. – Transfer to reserves 574,814.55 501 Of which transfer to liability reserve 2,369.06 2 VII. Unallocated profit for the year 274,095.32 280 13. + Profit brought forward from the prior year 41,003.68 29 VIII. Profit available for distribution 315,099.00 309 37 OeEB – Annual Report 2011 / Condensed Version Financial statements 2011 3. Notes to the financial statements 3.1 Accounting policies 3.1.1 Basis of presentation and general principles applied The annual financial statements of Oesterreichische In measuring the individual assets and liabilities, Entwicklungsbank AG (“OeEB”, “the bank”) were the principle of individual measurement was observed prepared by the Executive Board of OeEB in accorand the bank’s continuing operation was assumed. dance with the provisions of the Austrian Commercial Code (UGB) and the bank-specific portions of the The principle of prudence was observed by reporting Austrian Banking Act (BWG). only those profits realised at the balance sheet date. All identifiable risks and impending losses accrued The financial statements were drawn up in accorin the 2011 financial year were recognised. dance with accounting principles generally accepted in Austria and with the guiding principle of presenting The financial year under review was a full a true and fair view of the Bank’s financial position, calendar year. results of operations and cash flows. The financial statements were prepared in accordance with the principle of completeness. 3.1.2 Securities Securities classified as current assets are measured In accordance with section 9 Export Guarantees Act using the strict lower-of-cost-or-market approach (the “Ausfuhrförderungsgesetz”), OeEB’s investment (i.e., measured at the lower of cost or the quoted financing transactions are covered by a federal market price at the balance sheet date). government guarantee from the Austrian Federal Ministry of Finance in the amount of their cost. In view The bank does not hold securities for trading and of the full government guarantee, the expected therefore does not maintain a trading book. dividends and interest income for the year from these transactions are recognised in the balance sheet item Securities classified as non-current assets are “equity shares and other variable income securities” measured using the modified lower-of-cost-or-market on an accrual basis in the amount of the funding costs, approach (i.e., measured at cost or, if permanently which represent the maximum amount guaranteed. impaired, at a lower quoted market price at the balance sheet date). 3.1.3 Interests in companies Interests in companies are measured at cost, less any lasting material impairment losses. 38 OeEB – Annual Report 2011 / Condensed Version Financial statements 2011 3.1.4 Intangible assets Intangible assets are recognised in the balance sheet Amortisation is provided on a straight-line basis over only if they have been purchased. They are measured a useful life of 5 years, i.e., at a rate of 20% per year. at cost less amortisation and impairment. Intangible assets generated internally, and small assets with Impairment losses existing at the balance sheet date an individual acquisition cost of less than EUR 400, are are recognised if the impairment is expected to be expensed immediately. of a lasting nature. 3.1.5 Loans and advances and other assets Loans and advances to banks and customers, on demand), and the loans and advances to and other assets, are recognised at face amounts. customers, are covered by a federal guarantee under For identifiable credit risks in respect of borrowers, section 9 Export Guarantees Act in the amount of impairment losses are individually assessed. their cost. In view of the guarantee, the expected interest income is recognised on an accrual basis and The loans and advances to banks shown under recorded in the respective balance sheet item. “other loans and advances” (i.e., those not repayable 3.1.6 Trade and other payables Deposits from banks and other financial liabilities are recognised at repayable amounts. 3.1.7 Provisions Other provisions represents all risks, and all identified and measured as dictated by prudent liabilities of uncertain amount or nature, identifiable business judgment. at the time of preparation of the financial statements, 3.1.8 Foreign currency translation The reporting currency is the euro. Foreign currency amounts are ordinarily translated at middle rates of exchange. 39 OeEB – Annual Report 2011 / Condensed Version Financial statements 2011 3.2 Notes to the balance sheet and income statement 3.2.1 General information The structure of the balance sheet and income statement is as specified in Annex 2 to section 43 Austrian Banking Act. 3.2.2 Supplementary disclosures 3.2.2.1 Loans and advances 3.2.2.1.1 Loans and advances to banks 31 Dec. 2011 31 Dec. 2010 EUR EUR Loans and advances to banks repayable on demand Loans and advances denominated in EUR 25,029,901.35 20,835,211.56 Loans and advances denominated in USD 8,285.69 125,893.97 Total 25,038,187.04 20,961,105.53 Other loans and advances to banks Loans and advances denominated in EUR 60,141,822.09 40,006,797.13 Loans and advances denominated in USD 27,892,036.09 11,044,524.21 Total 88,033,858.18 51,051,321.34 The above table does not reflect an impairment loss of EUR 550,000.00 (prior year: EUR 400,000.00) recognised under section 57 Austrian Banking Act. 40 OeEB – Annual Report 2011 / Condensed Version Financial statements 2011 3.2.2.1.2 Loans and advances to customers 31 Dec. 2011 31 Dec. 2010 EUR EUR Loans and advances to customers Loans and advances denominated in EUR 267,615.27 0.00 Loans and advances denominated in USD 31,454,817.72 511,933.14 Total 31,722,432.99 511,933.14 The above table does not reflect an impairment loss of EUR 500,000.00 (prior year: EUR 0) recognised under section 57 Austrian Banking Act. 3.2.2.2 Non-current assets The changes in individual non-current asset items assets” at the end of the notes to the financial and the breakdown of amortisation and impairment are statements. presented in the table “Movements in non-current 3.2.2.3 Securities The securities in the balance sheet item “bonds and The fund shares and trust preferred securities other fixed income securities” are classified as recorded in “equity shares and other variable income current assets; they are admitted to trading on a stock securities” are classified as non-current assets and exchange and are listed securities. At 31 December were bought for the purpose of investment financing; 2011 the difference between their market value and they are not admitted to trading on an exchange. carrying amount was EUR 2,639.00. The amounts in the following table are shown net of accrued interest of EUR 1,117,442.94 in 2011 Bonds and other fixed income securities in the (prior year: EUR 961,538.81). amount of EUR 1,000,000.00 will be redeemed in the subsequent financial year. Interest in the amount of EUR 14,176.66 will also come due in the year. 41 OeEB – Annual Report 2011 / Condensed Version Financial statements 2011 31 Dec. 2011 31 Dec. 2010 EUR EUR Securities denominated in EUR 50,000,000.00 45,000,000.00 Securities denominated in USD 16,350,181.62 15,832,584.94 Total 66,350,181.62 60,832,584.94 3.2.2.4 Interests in companies At the end of the financial year, OeEB held a 7.63% OeEB also held a 7.69% equity interest in Interact equity interest in European Financing Partners S.A.; Climate Change Facility S.A., measured at the investment is measured at cost (EUR 25,100). cost at EUR 6,000. Both companies are based in Luxembourg. 3.2.2.5 Other assets EUR Remaining maturity Remaining maturity Carrying Up to 1 year More than 1 year amount 2011 Other assets outside Austria 651,704.68 129,809.54 781,514.22 Other 1,022.09 – 1,022.09 Total 652,726.77 129,809.54 782,536.31 2010 Other assets outside Austria 142,895.31 125,731.83 268,692.52 Tax assets 69,416.45 – 69,416.45 Other 87,279.37 – 87,279.37 Total 299,591.13 125,731.83 425,322.96 Other assets included accrued income of that will be received after the balance EUR 330,182.94 in 2011 (prior year: EUR 289,896.95) sheet date. 42 OeEB – Annual Report 2011 / Condensed Version Financial statements 2011 3.2.2.6 Fiduciary assets and liabilities The transactions overseen by OeEB as trustee, and The trusteeship holdings were acquired under which represent neither financial nor legal exposure the Advisory Programmes of the Austrian Ministry for OeEB, are recognised in the balance sheet in of Finance. other assets and in other liabilities, in an amount of EUR 11,204,628.39 in the year under review (prior year: EUR 10,156,550.13). 3.2.2.7 Deposits from banks and other financial liabilities Other financial liabilities included accrued expenses of EUR 722,558.67 in 2011 that will be paid after the balance sheet date (prior year: EUR 349,783.98). 3.2.2.8 Amounts due from and to Group entities The specific amounts of loans and advances to, companies at the balance sheet date were deposits from, and trade payables with Group as follows. 31 Dec. 2011 31 Dec. 2010 EUR EUR Assets Intra-group loans and advances to banks 25,036,870.03 20,960,666.08 Liabilities Intra-group deposits from banks 176,117,749.56 107,583,120.46 Intra-group trade payables 129,663.75 180,651.87 The security for the deposits from banks consists EUR 185.6 million (prior year: EUR 112.3 million), of the assets recorded in loans and advances to banks as well as the assignment of any relevant claims under and to customers, and the shares recorded in “equity the Austrian government guarantee issued by the shares and other variable income securities”, totalling Ministry of Finance. 43 OeEB – Annual Report 2011 / Condensed Version Financial statements 2011 3.2.2.9 Provisions The item “other provisions” (which represents all non-tax provisions) had the following composition: EUR At At 1 Jan. 2011 Added Used Released 31 Dec. 2011 Provision for vacation pay 64,012.70 92,820.00 64,012.70 – 92,820.00 Provision for legal, audit and consulting expenses 90,000.00 75,000.00 53,575.00 36,425.00 75,000.00 Guarantee premiums 446,288.00 546,177.00 446,288.00 – 546,177.00 Other provisions 239,657.71 336,026.19 234,622.54 5,035.17 336,026.19 Total 839,958.41 1,050,023.19 798,498.24 41,460.17 1,050,023.19 3.2.2.10 Equity The share capital of Oesterreichische EntwicklungsAs well, EUR 2,369.06 was transferred to the bank AG of EUR 5 million is divided into 50,000 liability reserve under section 23 (6) Austrian Banking no-par value bearer shares, each representing an Act, leaving EUR 315,099.00 of profit available for equal portion of the share capital. distribution (including profit of EUR 41,003.68 brought forward from the prior year). The proposed dividend Profit for the year was EUR 848,909.87. Of this, to be paid in the subsequent year for the 2011 finanEUR 42,445.49 was transferred to the statutory cial year is EUR 273,500.00, or EUR 5.47 per share. reserve and EUR 530,000.00 to uncommitted reserves. 3.2.2.11 Total amounts of assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies The foreign currency positions at the balance sheet The difference in amounts between these assets and date had the following values in euros: liabilities resulted in part from differences in interest rates between the project investments made and Assets: EUR 76,410,171.96 the related borrowing. These interest rate differences (2010: EUR 28,037,849.86) in turn are explained by the fact that the income guaranteed by the federal government was higher Liabilities: EUR 75,506,925.93 than the borrowing costs. There were also a USD (2010: EUR 27,393,983.31) bank account and USD-denominated receivables in connection with project investments. 44 OeEB – Annual Report 2011 / Condensed Version Financial statements 2011 3.2.2.12 Maturity analysis as per section 64 (1) (4) Austrian Banking Act 31 Dec. 2011 31 Dec. 2010 EUR EUR Loans and advances to banks not repayable on demand Up to 3 months – – More than 3 months and up to one 1 year – – More than 1 year and up to 5 years 67,050,003.86 50,290,375.70 More than 5 years 21,526,618.13 510,266.56 Total 87,576,951.99 50,800,642.26 The amounts in the table above are shown net They also do not reflect an impairment loss under of accrued interest of EUR 456,906.19 (prior year: § 57 Austrian Banking Act of EUR 550,000.00 EUR 250,679.08). (prior year: EUR 400,00.00). 31 Dec. 2011 31 Dec. 2010 EUR EUR Loans and advances to customers not repayable on demand Up to 3 months – – More than 3 months and up to one 1 year – – More than 1 year and up to 5 years 15,723,408.79 – More than 5 years 15,795,656.83 504,269.07 Total 31,519,065.62 504,269.07 The amounts in the table above are shown net They also do not reflect an impairment loss under of accrued interest of EUR 203,367.37 (prior year: § 57 Austrian Banking Act of EUR 500,000.00 EUR 7,664.07). (prior year: EUR 0). 45 OeEB – Annual Report 2011 / Condensed Version Financial statements 2011 31 Dec. 2011 31 Dec. 2010 EUR EUR Deposits from banks not repayable on demand Up to 3 months – – More than 3 months and up to one 1 year – – More than 1 year and up to 5 years 109,123,594.28 76,122,960.64 More than 5 years 76,322,604.96 36,014,535.62 Total 185,446,199.24 112,137,496.26 The amounts in the table above are shown net of accrued interest of EUR 700,803.52 (prior year: EUR 450,632.97). 3.2.2.13 Obligations from the use of off-balance sheet property and equipment The future lease obligations from the use of offyear 2012 and about EUR 1,300,000 for the balance sheet property and equipment are currently five-year period from 2012 to 2016. forecast at approximately EUR 245,000 for the 3.2.2.14 Information on derivative financial instruments At the balance sheet date of 31 December 2011, derivatives held at the prior-year balance sheet date OeEB did not hold derivative financial instruments. The of 31 December 2010 had the following composition: 2010 Notional amount Positive Negative EUR fair values fair values Interest rate swaps 80,054,941.59 3,412,648.83 379,607.68 Currency swaps 14,947,594.00 – 680,882.91 The fair values shown for 2010 represented the clean prices of the transactions. 46 OeEB – Annual Report 2011 / Condensed Version Financial statements 2011 These transactions to hedge interest rate risk and Therefore no provision was raised for negative exchange rate risk were managed entirely in market values in this context. The fair values (present conjunction with the funding operations for investvalues) of derivatives were calculated by generally ment financing and thus formed an economic unit accepted methods. They were recognised at the with these debt instruments. trade date. 3.2.2.15 Information on off-balance sheet transactions under sections 237 (8a) and 199 Austrian Commercial Code Contingent liabilities: This item represents guarantees Credit risk: For off-balance sheet credit risks, an in the amount of EUR 36,262,131.57 (prior year: amount of EUR 70,310,773.75 (prior year: EUR 27,404,904.10) issued by OeEB to KfW. EUR 96,563,747.16) was recognised as a memo item below the balance sheet. It related to undrawn commitments to lend (limits on credit facilities, and securities purchase obligations). To secure the risks, OeEB receives a 100% guarantee of the Republic of Austria for every transaction. 3.2.3 Notes to the income statement 3.2.3.1 Interest income and expense 2011 2010 EUR EUR Interest and similar income from lendings and investments From loans and advances to customers 643,268.30 25,371.52 From loans and advances to banks 2,968,219.85 1,400,180.36 From fixed income securities 53,881.62 60,862.72 Total 3,665,369.77 1,486,414.60 Interest and similar expense For deposits from banks 2,781,874.41 1,423,452.95 For deposits from customers 2,123.08 – Total 2,783,997.49 1,423,452.95 47 OeEB – Annual Report 2011 / Condensed Version Financial statements 2011 3.2.3.2 Fee and commission income and expense The fee and commission income was in relation The fee and commission expense consisted mainly principally to the reimbursement of expenses incurred of the accrued guarantee fees payable to the in the course of partly fiduciary services rendered Austrian Federal Ministry of Finance for the governby OeEB to the Federal Ministry of Finance, and ment guarantee in accordance with section 9 to management and monitoring fees received in Export Guarantees Act. connection with credit commitments. 3.2.3.3 Other administrative expenses Other administrative expenses (i.e., non-staff costs) The auditor’s remuneration is included within other consisted largely of costs for leases, purchased administrative expenses and consisted of an expense services, and auditing and consulting. of EUR 52,800.00 for the audit of the 2011 company financial statements (prior year: EUR 49,500.00). 3.2.3.4 Staff count In the year under review, OeEB had an average of 20 employees (prior year: 14). 3.2.3.5 Contributions to termination benefit funds The EUR 21,955.98 of contributions to termination In reliance on section 241 Austrian Commercial benefit funds consisted exclusively of contributions Code, no analysis of the amounts in terms of salaried to the employer-funded termination benefit fund. employees, managers and Executive Board is presented. 3.2.3.6 Deferred taxes A deferred tax asset of EUR 162,500.00 (prior year: in the financial statements; other, similar items EUR 100,000.00) relating to the impairment loss are insignificant in amount. under section 57 Austrian Banking Act is not included 48 OeEB – Annual Report 2011 / Condensed Version Financial statements 2011 3.3 Additional information 3.3.1 Boards In the financial year, the following individuals In the financial year, the following individuals were members of the Executive Board: were members of the Supervisory Board: Andrea Hagmann Rudolf Scholten (Chairman of the Supervisory Board) Michael Wancata Ferdinand Schipfer (Vice-Chairman of the Supervisory Board) The two Executive Board members jointly represent Christine Dangl the bank. In reliance on section 241 Austrian Holger Rothenbusch Commercial Code, no analysis of the Executive Board’s compensation is presented. The total expense for compensation of the Supervisory Board for the year under review was EUR 15,280.05. 3.3.2 Related party transactions under section 237 (8b) Austrian Commercial Code Oesterreichische Entwicklungsbank AG, which has The only related party transactions in the year under its registered office in Vienna (OeEB, Companies review were with OeKB and were conducted at arm’s Register Number 304601v, Vienna Commercial Court), length. Under a service agreement between the is a wholly-owned subsidiary of Oesterreichische two institutions, OeKB provides services to OeEB. The Kontrollbank Aktiengesellschaft (OeKB, Companies service agreement is approved by the Financial Market Register Number 85749b, Vienna Commercial Court) Authority and covers accounting, human resources and is fully consolidated in the OeKB Group financial management, information technology, internal audit statements. and other services. Disclosures under sections 26 and 26a Austrian In order to ensure the availability of sufficient Banking Act are presented in the consolidated funding at all times, OeEB’s transactions are largely financial statements prepared by OeKB. financed by OeKB. Vienna, 31 January 2012 Oesterreichische Entwicklungsbank AG The Executive Board Andrea Hagmann Michael Wancata 49 OeEB – Annual Report 2011 / Condensed Version Financial statements 2011 Movements in non-current assets in 2011 EUR At cost Additions Disposals ReAt cost at classifications at 1 Jan. 2011 31 Dec. 2011 Intangible assets 28,135.24 0.00 0.00 0.00 28,135.24 Software 28,135.24 0.00 0.00 0.00 28,135.24 Financial assets 60,857,684.94 5,523,596.68 0.00 0.00 66,381,281.62 1. Interests in companies 25,100.00 6,000.00 0.00 0.00 31,100.00 2. Securities classified as non-current assets** 60,832,584.94 5,517,596.68 0.00 0.00 66,350,181.62 Total 60,885,820.18 5,523,596.68 0.00 0.00 66,409,416.86 EUR Accumulated Carrying amount Carrying amount Amortisation amortisation at at and impairment and impairment 31 Dec. 2011 31 Dec. 2010 for the year* Intangible assets 21,008.20 7,127.04 12,754.09 5,627.05 Software -21,008.20 7,127.04 12,754.09 5,627.05 Financial assets 0.00 66,381,281.62 60,857,684.94 0.00 1. Interests in companies 0.00 31,100.00 25,100.00 0.00 2. Securities classified as non-current assets** 0.00 66,350,181.62 60,832,584.94 0.00 Total 21,008.20 66,388,408.66 60,870,439.03 5,627.05 * Excluding small assets of EUR 683.97 ** Excluding accrued income of EUR 1,117,442.94 50 OeEB – Annual Report 2011 / Condensed Version Financial statements 2011 Movements in non-current assets in 2010 EUR At cost Additions Disposals ReAt cost at classifications at 1 Jan. 2010 31 Dec. 2010 Intangible assets 28,135.24 0.00 0.00 0.00 28,135.24 Software 28,135.24 0.00 0.00 0.00 28,135.24 Financial assets 54,362,008.23 6,495,676.71 0.00 0.00 60,857,684.94 1. Interests in companies 25,100.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 25,100.00 2. Securities classified as non-current assets** 54,336,908.23 6,495,676.71 0.00 0.00 60,832,584.94 Total 54,390,143.47 6,495,676.71 0.00 0.00 60,885,820.18 EUR Accumulated Carrying amount Carrying amount Amortisation amortisation at at and impairment and impairment 31 Dec. 2010 31 Dec. 2009 for the year* Intangible assets 15,381.15 12,754.09 18,381.14 5,627.05 Software 15,381.15 12,754.09 18,381.14 5,627.05 Financial assets 0.00 60,857,684.94 54,362,008.23 0.00 1. Interests in companies 0.00 25,100.00 25,100.00 0.00 2. Securities classified as non-current assets** 0.00 60,832,584.94 54,336,908.23 0.00 Total 15,381.15 60,870,439.03 54,380,389.37 5,627.05 * Excluding small assets of EUR 1,277.41 ** Excluding accrued income of EUR 961,538.81 51 OeEB – Annual Report 2011 / Condensed Version 52 OeEB – Annual Report 2011 / Condensed Version Auditor’s Report D. Auditor’s Report Report on the Financial Statements We have audited the accompanying financial statements, including the accounting system, of Oesterreichische Entwicklungsbank AG, Vienna, Austria for the fiscal year from 1 January 2011 to 31 December 2011. These financial statements comprise the balance sheet as of 31 December 2011, the income statement for the fiscal year ended 31 December 2011, and the notes. Management’s Responsibility for the Financial Statements and for the Accounting System The Company’s management is responsible for the accounting system and for the preparation and fair presentation of these financial statements in accordance with Austrian Generally Accepted Accounting Principles. This responsibility includes: designing, implementing and maintaining internal control relevant to the preparation and fair presentation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error; selecting and applying appropriate accounting policies; and making accounting estimates that are reasonable in the circumstances. Auditors’ Responsibility and Description of Type and Scope of the statutory audit Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements based on our audit. We conducted our audit in accordance with laws and regulations applicable in Austria and Austrian Standards on Auditing. Those standards require that we comply with professional guidelines and that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free from material misstatement. An audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. The procedures selected depend on the auditor’s judgment, including the assessment of the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements, whether due to fraud or error. In making those risk assessments, the auditor considers internal control relevant to the Company’s preparation and fair presentation of the financial statements in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the Company’s internal control. An audit also includes evaluating the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall presentation of the financial statements. We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our audit opinion. 53 OeEB – Annual Report 2011 / Condensed Version Auditor’s Report Opinion Our audit did not give rise to any objections. In our opinion, which is based on the results of our audit, the financial statements comply with legal requirements and give a true and fair view of the financial position of the Company as of 31 December 2011 and of its financial performance for the year from 1 January 2011 to 31 December 2011 in accordance with Austrian Generally Accepted Accounting Principles. Report on Other Legal Requirements (Management Report) Pursuant to statutory provisions, the management report is to be audited as to whether it is consistent with the financial statements and as to whether the other disclosures are not misleading with respect to the Company’s position. The auditor’s report also has to contain a statement as to whether the management report is consistent with the financial statements. In our opinion, the management report is consistent with the financial statements. Vienna, 31 January 2012 KPMG Austria GmbH Wirtschaftsprüfungsund Steuerberatungsgesellschaft signed by: DDr. Martin Wagner pp Mag. Renate Vala Wirtschaftsprüfer Wirtschaftsprüferin (Austrian Chartered Accountants) This report is a translation of the original report in German, which is solely valid. Publication of the financial statements together with our auditor's opinion may only be made if the financial statements and the management report are identical with the audited version attached to this report. Section 281 paragraph 2 UGB (Austrian Commercial Code) applies. 54 Oesterreichische Entwicklungsbank AG Publication Information Owner and publisher: Oesterreichische Entwicklungsbank AG Strauchgasse 3, 1011 Vienna, Austria office@oe-eb.at www.oe-eb.at Companies Register number: FN 304601v, Vienna Commercial Court Data Processing Register number: DVR 3003269 VAT number: ATU 63944539 Layout and graphic design: Gerald Schuba Corporate Communications+, Barbara Jaumann Photography: istockphotos (Cover) CABEI (S. 2) Cohersa (S. 52) EFSE (S. 2) IFC (S. 33) OeEB (S. 2, 20, 17, 52) Standard Bank (S. 19) TPP/Liebherr (S. 18) Translation: Martin Focken Translating & Editing Oesterreichische Entwicklungsbank AG Strauchgasse 3 1011 Vienna, Austria Tel. +43 1 533 12 00-0 office@oe-eb.at www.oe-eb.at Oesterreichische Entwicklungsbank ag
