HUMAN RIGHTS Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; Principle 2: And make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses Assessment, policies and goals Description of the relevance of human rights for the company (i.e. human rights riskassessment). Description of policies, public commitments and company goals on Human Rights. To guarantee the compliance with Human Rights principles, Goodyear Brazil follows the directions declared at the Business Conduct Manual, a global corporative document that describes how associates must behave following the main principles and values of the company. There is a specific chapter related to the global human rights describing the company’s concept for: discrimination, volunteer job, child labor, diversity, harassment, violence and other examples. Goodyear has a Zero Tolerance policy and is committed to maintaining an inclusive workplace that is free of harassment and discrimination based on a person’s status such as race, color, religion, national origin, sex (including pregnancy), sexual orientation, age, disability, veteran status or other characteristics protected by applicable law. Any associate who is aware of discrimination or harassment, or feels that he or she has been subjected to or falsely accused of discrimination or harassment should report it immediately to the person with immediate authority over the workplace, to his or her human resources representative, or to the other resources identified in the Zero Tolerance policy. All reports will receive appropriate investigation or review. The Human Resources Policies (Recruiting, Compensation and Benefits, Development, and others) respect and are in compliance with the internal policies and the statements of Human Rights Principles. Implementation Description of concrete actions to implement Human Rights policies, address Human Rights risks and respond to Human Rights violations. All employees are reminded annually about the concepts related to the policies described above through messages, e-learning courses, classroom trainings and the resigning (electronic) of the Business Conduct Manual. During the integration process of new employees, they are informed about Goodyear’s polices and they must sign a document where they agree and accept to follow these concepts. The company keeps the protocols signed by all and follows up the associates who attend the e-learning courses about the internal policies. To provide an open channel through associates can anonymously denounce situations or behaviors that are not in compliance with our policies and believes, there is an Integrity Hotline that can be accessed by phone or form at the local intranet. All the complaints are investigated and addressed by a local committee. The Human Resources Department always reinforces the importance of acting with respect and integrity through formal and informal communication. Measurement of outcomes Description of how the company monitors and evaluates performance. As a way to follow the alignment of the conduct with the Human Rights principles, Goodyear monitors the percentage of employees who are trained about the Business Conduct Manual and Zero Tolerance Policy, in order to reach 100% of the company´s employees regardless of expertise level. Goodyear also guarantees that all new associates participate in the integration process in which they agree to follow the company’s policies. To reinforce the awareness of these policies by all employees, e-learning courses were conducted with 100% of the employees in 2012 including various subjects, such as: Anti-Bribery, Antitrust, Careful Communication, Conflict of Interest, Financial Integrity, Privacy and Data Protection, among others. LABOR RIGHTS Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor; Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labor; Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation Assessment, policies and goals Description of the relevance of labor rights for the company (i.e. labor rights-related risks and opportunities). Description of written policies, public commitments and company goals on labor rights. To guarantee the compliance with the labor rights principles, Goodyear Brazil follows the directions declared at its Business Conduct Manual. This is a global corporative document that describes how associates must behave following the main principles and company's values. There is a specific chapter related to the global human rights which specifically mentions labor rights as described below. Each associate’s presence must be voluntary. By this statement, Goodyear prohibits all forms of prison labor, indentured labor, slave labor, or other forms of compulsory labor or human trafficking, including the employment or exploitation of children in the workplace. The company supports the use of legitimate workplace apprenticeship, internship, and other similar programs that comply with all laws and regulations applicable to such programs. Goodyear Brazil also takes health and safety as key values in its culture, understanding the importance of these concepts to comply with the principles of Labor Rights. The company disseminates the 100% safety culture in all daily activities through constant internal campaigns / engagement activities and it provides health programs in order to increase productivity at work and offer people better life conditions. We take steps to reduce the chance of workplace accidents, injuries, or exposures to health risks. In particular, this commitment encompasses all forms of “workplace violence,” which is specifically prohibited by the company policy. Goodyear recognizes and respects associates’ rights and freedom to join organizations of their own choosing or to refrain from joining organizations. Associates who have chosen unions in accordance with applicable laws and regulations are entitled to bargain collectively through representatives of their own choosing. The company shall facilitate open communication and direct engagement between associates and management in those situations in which the right to freedom of association and collective bargaining are restricted under law. No associate shall be subject to dismissal, discrimination, harassment, intimidation, or retaliation due to his/her membership in a lawful workers’ association or union. Implementation Description of concrete actions taken by the company to implement labor policies, address labor risks and respond to labor violations. All employees are reminded annually about the concepts related to Labor Rights that are mentioned in the corporate Business Conduct Manual through messages, e-learning courses, classroom trainings and the re-signing (electronic) of the Business Conduct Manual. The Human Resources Policies (Recruiting, Compensation and Benefits, Development, and others) respect and are in compliance with the principles of Labor Rights. There is a Health and Safety department in the company that is dedicated to monitor the safety at the workplace. It implements policies and practices in order to guarantee the physical integrity of the associates. Some of the main safety programs implemented by this department are listed below: “I, My Safety Leader” and Total Safety Culture concept: represent the responsibility that each associate has with his/her security. This concept is based on three pillars – Leadership and Self-control, Strengthen the Team and Experiencing the Absolute Safety. Safety Angel: a more experienced person in relation to the risks of an operation that monitors and takes care of the co-worker for a week, evaluating and guiding the employee in order to strengthen the safe behavior Goodideia: tool that allows the associate to express improvement ideas in several categories, including safety and health. The ideas generate projects of productive, security and ergonomic improvements and are subject to win points that can be redeemed for free gifts Agentes EHS: associates that, besides exercising routine operational activities, are representatives of safety, health and environment, performing inspections and sharing messages among the other associates to disseminate the Goodyear EHS culture PREMAC: prevention tool through self-control. The associate follows steps and techniques of self-observation, self-assessment, self-control and self-reward, strengthening his/her commitment to safety. Cartão PARE-SIGA: tool used by everyone in the plant with the intention of recognizing safe behaviors during the work and also fix and guide risk behaviors. Celebrations in Production areas: recognize the associates and contractors for days without accidents inside and outside of work, counting on the presence of leadership team. Awareness Campaigns, CIPA (Comitê Interno para Prevenção de Acidentes): monthly meetings of the Safety Committee with leadership, daily team meeting after work sharing safety messages, among others. System alert: different colors flags are used at the entrance of the plant to notify accidents and also the absence of the accidents, sharing and reinforcing each associate commitment to the security. Related to health programs, Goodyear developed PROSA G, which offers health treatment for drug addicts to help them recover physically, mentally and socially as well as integrate them professionally. There is a Medical Clinic at the factory unit with 24 hour-nursing and specialties, such as Clinical, Gastro, Cardiologist, Orthopedist, Psychologist, Social Assistant, and Physiotherapist. There are also preventive health campaigns, such as vaccination programs. During the integration process of new employees in the factory, Goodyear reinforces the relevance of health and safety concepts, presenting the associates all the programs and processes conducted by the unit. Regarding Union relations, Goodyear designates a specific manager from the Human Resources team to represent the company in negotiations, always in compliance with the principles of Labor Rights. Measurement of outcomes Description of how the company monitors and evaluates performance. Aligned to the policies mentioned above, Goodyear monitors some key indicators to guarantee the compliance with Labor Rights. A result that demonstrates the efficiency of Goodyear’s safety programs is the number of accidents per year in the factory, which has decreased 93% in the last 10 years to only 2 cases in 2012. In 2011, we had nine months without any accident. In 2012, we also had 101 trained and qualified EHS agents, strengthened more than 20,000 safe behaviors through PREMAC and already implemented more than 1,800 safety ideas. The Medical Clinic in Americana’s factory attends an average of 40 patients per day in preventive and treatment sessions. Since the beginning of the Live with Health program, more than 1.700 associates participated in preventive tests to measure glucose, blood pressure, screening at-risk groups for hepatitis C and dental examination. Regarding the results of treatments for drug addicts, the company recovered 74% of the 79 employees attended by PROSA G. To guarantee the alignment with employees' interests with the company policies and practices, the HR Manager, which is responsible for Union Relations, keeps a monthly meeting with the Union board, keeping everybody updated with information about the company and discussing topics that are brought by associates. ENVIRONMENT Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Assessment, policies and goals Description of the relevance of environmental protection for the company (i.e. environmental risks and opportunities). Description of policies, public commitments and company goals on environmental protection. Goodyear Brazil reinforces its commitment to the environment through integrated policies of environment, safety and occupational health, global and local, in order to protect natural resources, prevent direct and indirect pollution, promote environmental well-being and care of our communities. Our global commitment also includes: Comply with all applicable environmental laws and regulations and Goodyear standards for all our operations. Establish environmental management systems based on internationally recognized standards and define organizational objectives and goals which aim to continuously improve our performance, reduce our life cycle environmental footprint and increase the sustainability of our materials, operations and products. Integrate environment, health, safety and sustainability in business decisions – including design, production, distribution and support of our products and services. Work on the reduction of our environmental impact and the preservation of natural resources by reducing the waste generation, water use and of greenhouse gas emission, reusing and recycling materials, and consciously managing the energy use during the tire lifetime. Encourage and guide all associates to incorporate environmental responsibility and share ideas to protect the environment inside and outside of work. Our manufacturing plants have ISO 14001 certification, demonstrating excellence in operational and environmental management, in addition to the internal environmental rules based on the specific characteristics of the tire manufacture, which are created and revised by experienced and qualified team. Among the goals set forth for the Brazilian operation are: Zero Waste to Landfill, Zero Internal and External Non-Conformances and Zero Use of Solvents. In the factory in America, we set some major environmental goals for 2012: Reduction of power and natural gas consumption by about 5%; Elimination of leaks by 96%; reduction of HCFCs consumption by 4.5%; Reduction of greenhouse gas generation by 2%; Development of at least 4 environmental events; Training of more than 100 safety agents to become environment and safety agents; Reduction of solvent consumption in the factory by 68%; Reduction of water consumption by 18.5% There is also an internal policy related to suppliers responsible for transportation and final disposal of all waste generated in the production process. These suppliers are approved only after an audit and approval by the local, regional and global Environment Departments. After approval, the suppliers are audited annually. Goodyear also works on the collection and environmentally correct disposal of scrap tires through Reciclanip entity created by the main tire companies to promote the postconsumption responsibility Implementation Description of concrete actions to implement environmental policies, address environmental risks and respond to environmental incidents. All associates and contractors are trained on environmental aspects and impacts of their area and also on Goodyear environmental policies and management through the integration training. Each year, the factory in Americana demonstrates its commitment to the environment through the Environment Week, when all the associates participate in environmental activities, such as lectures and presentations. The environmental responsibility actions practiced by Goodyear Brazil include: Water consumption all the water used by the production processes in factories is treated before and after its use, returning to the environment with a quality equal to or higher than that it was captured. Within its target to reduce the water consumption, the company is adopting the concept of reuse in its factory in the city of Americana (SP) with capacity to retrieve 450,000 cubic meters of water per year, in addition to the water treatment plants and sewage systems that already has been used in the plant since its installation in 1973. The commitment is to reduce the consumption by 15% by 2015. Power conservation one of the main Goodyear goals is the reduction of power consumption. Therefore, the natural gas, which has been already used in boilers to produce steam or electricity, has shown to be an effective alternative to reduce the gases and particulates volume in the atmosphere. The company also constantly invests in technology and acquisition of even more efficient machines that require less energy. Aiming at energy efficiency, we replaced about 20% of factory lighting by LED lamps, with a power reduction estimated at more than 70%, among other projects to reduce power consumption identified and carried out by the CICEComitê Interno de Conservação de Energia. Zero Waste and Solvents – Through awareness and education processes about the waste reduction performed among employees and suppliers in all factories, the company reached the result of zero waste sent to landfills and reduction of greenhouse gas emissions that cause global warming. The company also invests in internal programs to reduce the solvents use. Since 2007, the use has been already reduced more than 40%. Zero Incident – We have a specific policy for prevention of environmental incidents, with the goal of zero incidents. Goodyear Brazil does not perform any kind of emission of pollutants directly to the environment and does not exceed any legal limit. In addition, we act preemptively to ensure that any environmental aspects are minimized. As an example, we have liquid and solid management procedures, ensuring the proper storage, efficient pollution control equipments, and preventive equipment/facilities (containment dams, electronic monitoring, etc.) at all risk locations. Eco-efficient Technologies – Goodyear invests in the development of eco-efficient technologies to employ them in your tires, providing lower footprint during their life. An example is the FuelMax technology, which enables up to 5.7% reduction in fuel consumption of vehicles, resulting in lower CO2 emission through the low rolling resistance. Another technology developed by company, Duralife, combines innovation in product engineering, materials and final inspection to guarantee higher performance in tire mileage and retreading. Another example of technology that enables to increase the service life of tires is the Air Maintenance Technology (AMT), which is characterized by a miniaturized pump, dispensing the tires calibration and providing fuel economy and longer tire useful life Development of renewable raw materials – Goodyear invests in research and development to replace petrochemical compounds in the tire composition. Some concrete examples include: Biolsopreno tire: use of biomass in its composition for the manufacture of synthetic rubber, an alternative to petrochemical ingredients Tire with soybean oil: the company found that soybean oil can replace petrochemical compounds in the tire manufacture, generating earnings in the useful life of the product. Post-consumption Responsibility Goodyear performs the collection and disposal of scrap tires through Reciclanip entity created by the main tire companies to promote the post-consumption responsibility. Since 1999, when the collection was initiated, the equivalent of 424 million units of passenger car tires has been collected. The collected tires are used as an alternative fuel for cement industries, in the manufacture of shoe soles, rubber for sealing, rain pipes, flooring for sports courts, industrial floors, asphaltrubber and carpets for automobiles. Measurement of outcomes Description of how the company monitors and evaluates environmental performance. The monitoring of environmental indicators is carried out monthly by all Goodyear sites, presenting and evaluating our energy and environmental performance in order to achieve the objectives and goals set by the Annual Operating Plan. The performance of each plant is reviewed by regional and global leadership in periodic conferences, discussing the improvements and opportunities for each environmental indicator, in addition to conducting workshops focused on sustainability strategy, integration of the environment area with other sectors, and continuous performance improvement. Since 2007 no Brazilian site has sent waste to landfill, always seeking the best environmental disposal for each type of waste and following the 3Rs concept (Reduce, Reuse and Recycle). In relation to 2011, we have reduced the solvent consumption by 69%, the power consumption by 5% and the water consumption by 22%. These initiatives are part of a long way to be travelled by Goodyear that, in addition to environmental benefits, promotes social and economic gains within the Sustainability Concept. Through strategic partnerships, the dissemination of information and environmental education, the company believes that it is possible to promote prevention and preservation of natural resources and the commitment to building a more responsible and sustainable society. ANTI-CORRUPTION Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Assessment, policies and goals Description of the relevance of anti-corruption for the company (i.e. anti-corruption riskassessment). Description of policies, public commitments and company goals on anticorruption. Goodyear Brazil follows the directions of three main policies (Compliance & Ethics / Business Conduct Manual / International Anti-Bribery Compliance Operational Guide) that determine that no Goodyear associate will offer or make or agree to receive or accept any improper payment or anything of value to or from anyone anywhere in the world in order to obtain or retain business or to secure any improper advantage. By these policies, it is declared that Goodyear will give up business opportunity that can be won only by giving an improper or illegal payment, gift, rebate, bribe, kickback, or similar inducement. The policies apply to all Goodyear employees and its subsidiaries worldwide, also for third parties, such as agents, distributors and other third parties (outsourced). The Goodyear Anti-Bribery Policy requires appropriate due diligence procedures are performed in third parties. Implementation Description of concrete actions to implement anti-corruption policies, address anticorruption risks and respond to incidents. To guarantee the awareness about anti-corruption and anti-bribery policies, Goodyear Brazil held a mandatory on-line training with all associates on the Business Conduct Manual. In addition, the company conducts mandatory on-site training sessions about Anti-bribery policy for associates that, among other criteria, have contact with employees of government agencies, distributors or third parties that have contact with government agencies as a result of their relationship with Goodyear. The company also conducts training on FCPA rules (Foreign Corrupt Practices Act), besides having a protocol to guide employees in relation to situations that are faced with extortion and bribery. Measurement of outcomes Description of how the company monitors and evaluates anti-corruption performance. Goodyear Brazil is not involved in any legal case that has to do with corruption. The company carries out internal audits with the purpose of identifying any procedure that may potentially compromise our Anti-Bribery policy. Goodyear Brazil promotes investigations and/or lawsuits as a result of violation reports concerning our Anti-bribery policy, including through the Hotline System (Reporting Violations through the Goodyear Integrity Hotline), in which the associates can report issues by phone or email, keeping their identity anonymous. Goodyear Brazil books and accounts are subject to statutory external audit annually. These audits are used as one of the methods of identifying any suspicious payment that could be related to bribery or corrupt behavior. There has been no such incident reported in the period.
