Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2011 Corporate Social Responsibility Report − Web version − Every year the Daikin Group reports on its CSR (corporate social responsibility) activities. On the Sustainability section of the Daikin Web site, we have past years’ data and related information so that you can read the details of all activities we are involved in. This PDF file contains all the fiscal 2010 information from the Sustainability section of our Web site. You may download and print it out. Note: The printed version of the CSR Report 2011 focuses on our main activities and efforts. It can also be downloaded as a PDF file. Contents Editorial Policy 2 Environmental Management 132 Environmental Management System 134 Daikin's CSR 6 Environmental Audits 138 Business Overview 7 Environmental Risk Management 139 Chairman's Message 10 Environmental Accounting 142 CSR Philosophy 12 Environmental Education 145 Participation in the Global Compact 16 Environmental Communication 147 CSR Management 17 Environmental Forums and Exhibits 148 CSR Promotion Activities 20 Environmental Education Corporate Governance 22 and Awareness Activities 150 Compliance and Risk Management 23 Protecting Biodiversity 152 Free Competition and Fair Business Dealings 28 Protecting Biodiversity 153 Prohibiting Bribes 28 Biodiversity Awareness 157 Information Security 29 History of Environmental Activities 158 Respect for Intellectual Property Rights 30 Respect for Human Rights 31 Responsibility to Stakeholders 160 Honors for Daikin 32 Responsibility to Stakeholders 161 Independent Opinions 35 Customers 163 Response to the Great East Japan Earthquake 36 Product Quality and Safety 165 Customer Satisfaction 172 Key Activities 39 Protecting Customer Information 178 List of Fiscal 2010 Key Activities 40 Employees 179 The Quest for Next-Generation Refrigerants 42 Employee Evaluation and Treatment 182 Solutions for Curbing Global Warming 48 Workplace Diversity 183 Improving Quality 53 Work-Life Balance 189 People-Centered Management 56 Labor Management Relations 192 Raising Environmental Awareness 59 Occupational Safety and Health 193 Fostering Human Resources 198 Environment 62 Business Partners 203 Overview of Environmental Impact 63 Philosophy on Suppliers 204 Towards an Environmentally Advanced Company 65 Working Closely with Suppliers 206 Results for the Environmental Action Plan 2010 68 Green Procurement Guidelines 209 Environmental Action Targets and Achievements 72 Shareholders and Investors 210 Low-Impact Products 75 For Shareholders 211 Daikin Eco-Products 78 Information Disclosure Policy 214 Promoting the Use of Inverter Products 85 Communities 215 Promoting the Use of Heat-Pump Type Space Promoting Art and Culture 217 and Hot Water Heaters 86 Promoting Sports 219 Products That Help Customers Save Energy 88 Contributing to Education 221 Environmentally Conscious Environmental Contributions to Society 225 Fluorochemical Products 95 A Good Corporate Citizen Low-Impact Refrigerants 97 —Activities in Each Community 227 3R & Repair 100 Low-Impact Production 105 Data 243 Preventing Global Warming — Production, Transportation 108 Overview of GRI Guidelines 259 Recovering and Destroying Fluorocarbons GRI Sustainability Reporting from Customers' Air Conditioners 115 Guidelines 2006 (G3) 260 Green Procurement 119 Compliance with J-Moss 123 Management of Chemical Substances 126 Reducing Waste and Water 128 1 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2011 −Web version− Editorial Policy 2 Editorial Policy Editorial Policy This site details the Daikin Group's CSR (corporate social responsibility) activities: basic CSR philosophy, performances in fiscal 2010, and plans for the near future. Information that, due to space limitations, could not fit into the CSR Report 2011 (printed version) released in July 2011 is included on this Web site. We divided the CSR Report by what we consider to be the key themes of our CSR activities: the environment, quality and customer satisfaction, human resources, and social contribution. Each chapter deals with the Daikin Group's major areas of activity and subjects in which our stakeholders are most interested. You'll find features on the Daikin Group's human resource training and on our efforts to curb global warming, which has been a major focus for us in recent years. This Web site is divided into sections on our environmental protection activities and on each stakeholder group: customers, suppliers, shareholders and investors, employees, and local communities. This allows readers easy access to important information concerning Daikin. Environment (Page 62) Responsibility to Stakeholders (Page 160) We also give specific examples of how Daikin and its bases around the world contribute to key efforts of working to prevent global warming and to foster human resources. Key Activities (Page 39) To ensure an objective assessment of our activities and of this report, and to deepen dialogue with stakeholders, we have included independent, third party opinions. Independent Opinions (Page 35) Reference Guidelines Environmental Reporting Guidelines (fiscal 2007 edition) released by the Ministry of the Environment. Sustainability Reporting Guidelines Third Edition (G3) released by the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). Note In reporting on fiscal 2010 environmental protection activities, data was carefully reviewed and was revised in cases where discrepancies occurred between actual results and information reported for fiscal 2009. Also, because figures are rounded off, totals may not equal the sum figures. 3 Editorial Policy Forecasts, Expectations, and Plans This report includes forecasts, expectations, and plans, in addition to past and present facts, about Daikin Industries, Ltd. and its subsidiaries (collectively called the Daikin Group). Please be aware that these are assumptions and judgments made based on the information available at the time this report was written and thus incorporate a degree of uncertainty. Consequently, there is a risk that events occurring in the future may turn out differently from the forecasts, expectations, and plans stated in this report. What This Report Covers Term Covered This report covers fiscal 2010 (April 1, 2010 to March 31, 2011). Daikin Organizations Covered This report covers Daikin Industries, Ltd. and its consolidated subsidiaries. Environmental performance data, however, covers four Daikin Industries, Ltd. production bases, seven production subsidiaries in Japan, and 20 production subsidiaries overseas. Note that only the figures on pages 3-4 (printed version, CSR Report 2011) for performance, number of employees, and number of subsidiaries include O.Y.L. Industries, which Daikin acquired in 2006, and O.Y.L. subsidiaries. Japan Daikin Industries, Ltd. Head Office Tokyo Office Sakai Plant Air conditioning/refrigeration equipment, compressors Shiga Plant Air conditioning equipment, compressors Fluorochemical products, hydraulic equipment, air-conditioning equipment, precision defense Yodogawa Plant equipment Kashima Plant Fluorochemical products 7 Production Subsidiaries Daikin Sheet-Metal Co., Ltd. Daikin Piping Co., Ltd. Daikin Hydraulic Engineering Co., Ltd. Daikin Rexxam Electronics (Japan) Ltd. Daikin Sunrise Settsu Ltd. Toho Kasei Co., Ltd. Kyoei Kasei Industries, Ltd. 4 Editorial Policy Overseas 20 Production Subsidiaries Daikin Australia Pty., Ltd. Daikin Industries (Thailand) Ltd. Daikin Airconditioning (Thailand) Ltd. Daikin Europe N.V. Daikin Compressor Industries Ltd. Daikin Chemical France S.A.S. Daikin Chemical Netherlands B.V. Daikin Device Czech Republic s.r.o Daikin Industries Czech republic s.r.o. Daikin Air conditioning (Shanghai) Co., Ltd. Daikin Air conditioning (Shanghai) Co., Ltd. (Huizhou Branch) Xi'an Daikin Qing'an Compressor Co., Ltd. Daikin Fluoro Coatings (Shanghai) Co., Ltd. Daikin Fluorochemicals (China) Co., Ltd. Daikin Device (Suzhou) Co., Ltd. Daikin Motor (Suzhou) Co., Ltd. Daikin America, Inc. Daikin Refrigeration (Suzhou) Co., Ltd. Rotex Heating Systems GmbH Daikin Airconditioning India Pvt. Ltd. 5 Editorial Policy Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2011 −Web version− Daikin's CSR Business Overview 7 Chairman's Message 10 CSR Philosophy 12 Participation in the Global Compact 16 CSR Management 17 CSR Promotion Activities 20 Corporate Governance 22 Compliance and Risk Management 23 Free Competition and Fair Business Dealings 28 Prohibiting Bribes 28 Information Security 29 Respect for Intellectual Property Rights 30 Respect for Human Rights 31 Honors for Daikin 32 Independent Opinions 35 Response to the Great East Japan Earthquake 36 6 Daikin's CSR Air Conditioning and Chemical Technologies Work Hand-in-Hand Daikin has made global warming prevention one of its top priority issues and actively pursues environmental impact reduction in all business activities. The Daikin Group offers products utilizing technologies in both air conditioning and fluorochemicals to provide living spaces with comfort. We also contribute to sustainable development of society through proprietary advanced technologies and advanced R&D in our oil hydraulics business, which encompasses energy-efficient technologies cultivated in our air conditioning business, and our defense systems business, which provides a wide range of products from aerospace parts to home medical equipment. Daikin Group Business Air Conditioning Business Achieving Both Comfort and Environmental Consciousness to Meet All Global Air Conditioning Needs Chemicals Business World's Leading Lineup of Fluorochemicals Oil Hydraulics, Defense Systems Business Proprietary Technologies at Work in a Range of Industries 7 Daikin's CSR Ever since we developed Japan's first air conditioner in 1951, the Daikin Group has used the air conditioning and chemical expertise it has built up to bring comfort to people around the world, whether they are at home or at work. In the fields of oil hydraulics and defense systems, our proprietary cutting-edge technologies and R&D capabilities have advanced industry and improved people's lives. Of all our businesses, those with the greatest impact on environmentally are the air conditioner business and our fluorochemical business, which makes the fluorocarbon refrigerants for air conditioners. Air conditioners use large amounts of energy, and fluorocarbons are greenhouse gases that cause global warming. The structure of our business necessitates that we make it our mission to help prevent global warming. We thus do all that we can to reduce environmental impact in all areas of business. Our aim is to be an environmentally advanced company by developing and marketing environmentally conscious products and services and by reducing emissions of fluorocarbons and CO2 in the production, distribution, and marketing stages. Worldwide Business Daikin Group strives to be a company that can meet the expectations of various stakeholders while respecting the diverse cultures and values of people in each country and region. The Daikin Group does business around the world in countries and regions like China, Southeast Asia, Oceania, Europe, and North America. We have 41,569 employees at worldwide production and sales bases, with two-thirds of employees working outside Japan. By respecting the cultures and values of each country and region, we strive for a workplace that motivates employees and brings out the unique personality of each employee. Daikin Group 8 Daikin's CSR The Daikin Group does business in Japan, China and the rest of Asia, Oceania, Europe, and the United States with the goal of maximizing corporate value to become a truly global and excellent company. In fiscal 2006, we further expanded our geographical area and markets through the acquisition of O.Y.L. Industries (headquarters: Malaysia), which has solid air conditioning business networks in North America and Asia. As we continue to grow worldwide, we are striving even further to contribute to society in respecting the diverse cultures and values of the countries and regions where we operate and by hiring locally to ensure our products and services meet local needs. People are the force behind improving corporate value. To become a company trusted throughout the world, all Group employees must understand and implement our Group Philosophy, and our company must create a work environment in which employees can maximize their unique traits and work with enthusiasm and pride. We will continue to reward stakeholders-customers, shareholders, employees, and local citizens-through our corporate growth. In the process, we will think globally while being a good citizen of the Earth and acting in the best interests of each community in our goal of becoming a truly first-rate company. 9 Daikin's CSR On March 11, 2011, an unprecedented earthquake struck Eastern Japan, and I offer our sincerest condolences to all those afflicted by this disaster. The Daikin Group will continue to support the stricken areas with donations of money and relief supplies. Although the Kashima Plant of Daikin Industries, Ltd. was affected by the disaster, damage to production equipment was minimal, and we were able to quickly resume manufacturing. Along with the concentrated aid provided to suppliers, measures were adopted to secure parts for the supply chain, including changing to substitution parts, and the impact to production was minimized. The earthquake presented us with an array of challenges: one of which involves energy consumption and the pressing need for society to reduce peak electricity use. To Daikin, whose products have a significant impact on electricity use, this crisis represents not only a temporary necessity for Japan but is also a crucial issue that must be addressed worldwide as a demand of the times. Beginning with our control technology that operates air conditioners to minimize energy consumption, we intend to fully utilize our energy-saving and power conservation technologies to help the world meet its growing energy needs in the medium and long term. Environmental Protection as a Major Pillar of Our Growth Strategy Daikin's CSR is founded on two pillars: providing environmentally conscious products and services, and fostering the human resources that make this possible. 10 Daikin's CSR Critical to our environmental efforts is the FUSION 10 strategic management plan ended fiscal 2010. Under this plan, we set forth a basic policy of maintaining a balance between active contributions to solving global environmental problems and business expansion by striving to reduce environmental impact during manufacturing and contribute to environmental protection through our business. For example, we have striven to promote the use of products using energy-efficient inverter technology and heat-pump space heating, which has less global warming impact than combustion-type space heating. We believe this has enabled our customers to achieve greater energy efficiency and reduce CO2 emissions. We have also succeeded in reducing greenhouse gas emissions from production processes by 73% against fiscal 2005, bettering our target of a 50% reduction. In fiscal 2011, we began FUSION 15, which focuses on a strategy of growth by accelerating our environmental business. Moreover, we aim to further reduce greenhouse gas emissions from production processes to one-third of fiscal 2005 levels by 2015. By concentrating on protecting and revitalizing our precious natural environment, we aim to achieve sustainable business growth and development while contributing to environmental protection. Strengthen Human Resources throughout the Global Group by Implementing People-Centered Management People are the force that executes strategic activities. Daikin believes that the cumulative growth of all Group members serves as the foundation for the group's development. Consequently, People-Centered Management is implemented with the aim of creating a work environment in which each employee can use his or her talents to the fullest. Under FUSION 15, we are making the strengthening of human resources a core strategy company-wide. With more than 60% of the sales of the Daikin Group coming from overseas, fostering personnel who can contribute at our global bases is an urgent task. Currently at our major overseas subsidiaries, one in every four members of management is locally hired. As well, three of these also serve as board members of Daikin Industries. In order to train more local personnel in Daikin's management philosophy to run more local Daikin subsidiaries, we will continue to increase global hiring and pursue measures such as building a global human resources system and promoting better communication between the Daikin Head Office and worldwide subsidiaries. Meet Stakeholder Expectations through CSR that Earns the Trust of Society Times are changing at lightning speed. As major transformations take place within the framework of the world economy, society, and politics, we must quickly adapt to the structural changes of the times so that we can meet the expectations of our stakeholders and thus achieve sustainable development. We firmly believe that by looking 10 years into the future and flexibly adapting to predicted changes, the Daikin Group can further grow and develop. We will strive to listen even more closely to stakeholder opinions so that we can continue to be a trusted company that meets society's expectations. We look forward to your continued support in our endeavors. July 2011 11 Daikin's CSR 12 Daikin's CSR How We View CSR in the Daikin Group 1. By ensuring implementation of our Group Philosophy, the DAIKIN Group will execute our social responsibilities globally in relations with all our stakeholders, and thereby raise our corporate value and contribute to the sustainable development of society. 2. Based upon thorough observance of legal compliance and corporate ethics, the DAIKIN Group will carry out our CSR initiatives with priority on contributing to society through our business activities such as: Creating and offering new value by anticipating the future needs of customers; Taking initiatives to sustain and improve the environment in all aspects of our business operations, and promoting the development of new products and the innovation of technologies that will lead to a more environmentally healthy world; Building friendly yet competitive relations with all our business partners such as suppliers; and Cultivating workplaces that foster pride and enthusiasm in each employee. Furthermore, as a good corporate citizen the DAIKIN Group will make beneficial contributions to each community in which we are based by being highly receptive to its needs. 3. Instead of simply giving consideration to CSR, the DAIKIN Group will proactively incorporate CSR initiatives in all our business activities, fuse and integrate such initiatives with these activities in order to ensure truly ongoing CSR initiatives and lead to the improvement of our business performance. 4. The DAIKIN Group will pursue CSR in our unique way by riding on our strengths, such as our atmosphere of freedom and boldness, thorough customer-oriented management, warm hospitality and other valued traditions and culture, as well as world-leading technologies. 5. The DAIKIN Group will fulfill our CSR by promoting interactive communications widely with society, achieving accountability, and maintaining high transparency. Environmental Philosophy Be a Company that Leads in Applying Environmentally Friendly Practices As we continue developing our business operations in various fields, it is our mission to proactively develop initiatives to respond to environmental issues. Incorporating environmental initiatives throughout our management must be a priority for us. In all aspects of our business operations, including product development, manufacturing and sales, we need to formulate initiatives that sustain and improve the environment. Meanwhile, we need to promote the development of new products and the innovation of technologies that will lead to a more environmentally healthy world. Under the precept environmental response is an important management resource, we must integrate environmental initiatives into our corporate management since they can lead to business expansion, improved business performance, and further enhancement of our credibility with outside parties. We intend to continue being a leading company in the practice of environmental management, thus contributing to a healthier global environment as a good citizen of the earth. 13 Daikin's CSR Action Guidelines 1. Ensure that all members of the Group deepen our understanding of environmental issues and take responsibility for the impact our actions have on society in general. 2. Establish, promote, and continuously improve an Environmental Management System to actively and effectively implement Environmental Management as a Group. 3. Develop and implement environmental initiatives in all aspects of our business operations, including product development, production, sales, distribution, services, and recycling. In particular, be a leader in society by developing products, technologies, and business opportunities that contribute to sustaining and improving our environment. 4. Implement environmental initiatives that are globally consistent as well as promote initiatives that respond to the particular circumstances of each country and region. Furthermore, actively promote cooperation and alliances with related companies, external organizations, and institutions. 5. Disclose environmentally related information in a truthful and fair manner. Listen to the views of people both inside and outside the company to continuously improve our environmental preservation efforts. Group Compliance Guidelines These compliance guidelines set forth the basic premises to observe as a basic framework for compliance for all Group companies as well as each and every one of their executives and employees in the worldwide expansion of the Daikin Group. Each company of the global Group shall draft specific criteria based on these guidelines as a code of conduct that corresponds to differences in laws and customs of each country and region and thoroughly maintains compliance. 1. Providing Safe, High Quality Products and Services We shall make every effort to ensure the safety and quality of our products and services from the standpoint of our customers. Should a problem occur regarding safety, we shall immediately take appropriate action. 2. Free Competition and Fair Trading We shall perform fair corporate activities in compliance with all applicable laws and regulations relating to fair competition and fair trade of each country and region. 3. Observing Trade Control Laws We shall not participate in any transactions that may undermine the maintenance of global peace and security and world order in compliance with all applicable export and import related laws and regulations of each country and region as well as Daikin Group Policy. 4. Respect and Protection of Intellectual Property Rights Recognizing that intellectual property rights are important company assets, we shall strive to protect and maintain our intellectual property rights and effectively utilize them. Furthermore, we shall respect and make every effort not to infringe upon the intellectual property rights of other companies. 5. Proper Management and Utilization of Information We shall properly manage and effectively utilize the confidential information of our company, the confidential information obtained from other companies, and the personal information of our customers and employees and shall not obtain any information through improper means. We shall thoroughly execute IT security management for our computer systems and the data-resources saved on them. 6. Prohibition of Insider Trading To maintain the trust of the securities market, we shall not use non-public information about the Daikin Group or other companies to buy or sell stocks or other securities (insider trading). 14 Daikin's CSR 7. Timely and Appropriate Disclosure of Corporate Information Aiming to be an open company with high transparency and earn the respect of society, we shall actively convey corporate information in a timely fashion not only to shareholders and investors but also to a wide spectrum of society, and engage in two-way communication. 8. Preservation of the Global Environment We shall observe all applicable environment laws and regulations of each country and region and practice initiatives that sustain and improve the environment in all aspects of our business operations, including product development, manufacturing, sales, distribution, and services. Also, each and every one of us shall strive to promote environmentally conscious actions. 9. Ensuring the Safety of Operations We shall take all possible precautions for safe operations and act with a mindset of Safety First to ensure the safety of the workplace and further gain the trust of people in the regions we serve. 10. Respect for Human Rights and Diversity in the Workplace and Observance of Labor Laws We shall respect the human rights of each and every employee and diversity in values and approach to work while striving to create a workplace that is safe and comfortable to work. We shall also observe both the letter and spirit of all labor laws and regulations of each country and region, and under no circumstances sanction the labor performed under compulsion or against a person's will (forced labor), or labor of children who do not meet the minimum age requirements for labor as regulated by laws and regulations of each country and region (child labor). 11. Protection of Company Assets We shall properly manage the tangible and intangible assets of our company to protect and utilize effectively these assets. 12. Proper Handling of Accounting Procedures We shall comply with all accounting standards and tax laws of each country and region as well as internal company rules in properly performing accounting procedures and shall make every effort to improve internal controls. 13. Practicing Moderation in Entertainment and Gift Exchanges We shall exercise moderation and perform within the acceptable range of social norms and obey the laws and regulations of each country and region in regards to entertainment and exchange of presents performed relating to our business. In particular, we shall neither entertain nor provide gifts of monetary value to public officials at home and abroad in violation of applicable laws and regulations in each country and region. 14. Maintaining a Firm Attitude against Anti-social Activities We shall take a firm attitude against anti-social force or organization that threatens the safety and order of the citizens of society 15. Observing Various Business Law and Regulation We shall accurately comprehend and observe all business laws and regulations of each country and region applicable to our business activities. 15 Daikin's CSR Participation in the Global Compact Building a System for Unified Group Action In October 2008, Daikin Industries' participation in the United Nations Global Compact was acknowledged. The United Nations Global Compact, proposed by former United Nations Secretary-General Kofi Annan in 1999 at the World Economic Forum, presents a unique strategic platform for companies to advance their commitments to sustainability and corporate citizenship. The Global Compact asks companies to embrace, support and enact, within their sphere of influence, a set of core values in the areas of human rights, labour standards, the environment, and anti-corruption. In August 2008, we established our Group Compliance Guidelines. And in September 2008, we revised our Handbook for Corporate Ethics, adding items such as the abolition of forced labor and child labor. In this way, we are incorporating the spirit of the Global Compact into our Group management strategy and putting it into action in our business activities as we strive to contribute to a sustainable society and raise the Daikin Group's corporate value. Ten Principles of UN Global Compact Human Rights 1. Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and 2. make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Labour Standards 3. Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; 4. the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; 5. the effective abolition of child labour; and 6. the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Environment 7. Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; 8. undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and 9. encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Anti-Corruption 10. Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. 16 Daikin's CSR The Daikin Group believes that CSR is the meticulous practice of Our Group Philosophy on a daily basis. We also create systems for our worldwide bases that promote corporate ethics and legal compliance as the foundation of our CSR. CSR Promotion Activities Building a System for Integrated Group CSR The Daikin Group has systems for the comprehensive, crossorganizational promotion of CSR activities throughout the entire group. (See page 20) CSR Management Structure CSR Promotion Plan Corporate Governance Outside Viewpoint Ensures Sound Transparent Management Daikin Industries' corporate governance system aims for fast decisionmaking and execution by having the two together in an integrated (See page 22) management framework. We also have mechanisms that ensure the soundness and transparency of our management. Corporate Governance Corporate Governance The board of directors oversees the CSR Committee, the Corporate Ethics and Risk Management Committee, and the Disclosure Committee, all of which work to ensure that corporate governance is based firmly in corporate social responsibility. Compliance and Risk Management Daikin Joins UN Global Compact; Establishes Group Compliance Guidelines The Daikin Group has systems for carrying out integrated action in compliance and risk management. (See page 23) In October 2008, we joined the United Nations Global Compact. Prior to Management Structure that, in September 2008, we established our Group Compliance Corporate Ethics and Risk Management Guidelines, which include Global Compact philosophies including the abolishment of forced labor and child labor. These guidelines were Handbook for Corporate Ethics added to our Handbook for Corporate Ethics, an action guide for Daikin Checking Legal Compliance through Audits employees. Education See Participation in the Global Compact (Page 16) In-House Information Help-Line Risk and Measures Preparing for Earthquakes 17 Daikin's CSR Free Competition and Fair Business Dealings The Daikin group strives for fair business practices through measures for complying with the Anti-Monopoly Act, Misleading Representations Act, and the Subcontract Act. (See page 28) Prohibiting Bribes We do our utmost to ensure that business entertainment and gift-giving related to business are conducted within the laws and customs of each country and region. (See page 28) Information Security We ensure the proper management and use of information by thoroughly educating employees and by properly managing confidential information (See page 29) that we obtain from other companies. Proper Management and Use of Company divisions and departments have information managers, and we Information ensure information is being properly managed through legal compliance Personal Information audits and other measures. Respect for Intellectual Property Rights We recognize intellectual property as one of a company's most valuable assets. We carry out proper and fair exercise of rights in response to (See page 30) violation of intellectual property as well as respect other companies' intellectual property. Training is held for each management level of Managing Intellectual Property Rights employees and thorough checks are carried out during development of Encouraging Employees to Create new products and technologies to ensure there is no infringement on the Intellectual Property intellectual property of other companies. Suppliers Must Be in Legal Compliance Management That Achieves Legal Compliance throughout the Supply Chain The Daikin Group urges its suppliers to abide by labor-related laws. Before taking on new suppliers, in the Air Conditioning Manufacturing Division, we inquire into things like their management policies and labor situation. The Chemicals Division carries out unscheduled audits and monitors suppliers for improper labor practices such as excessive work hours. (See page 206) 18 Daikin's CSR Respect for Human Rights Basic Policy of Respect for Human Rights and Diversity, and Compliance with Labor Laws Daikin Industries makes employees aware of human rights issues as part of its goal of becoming a company free of discrimination where each (See page 31) individual is respected. Policy and Management Structure The Handbook for Corporate Ethics states our policy of respecting Human Rights Education human rights and diversity in the workplace and abiding by labor laws, and Preventing Sexual Harassment we constantly remind employees to be aware of this. 19 Daikin's CSR CSR Management Structure Building a System for Integrated Group CSR Firmly grounded in corporate ethics and legal compliance, the Daikin Group's CSR efforts are aimed at contributing to society through its business activities. The CSR Committee chaired by officers in charge of CSR sets Daikin's CSR direction and monitors the progress of CSR activities. Under this committee, officers in charge of CSR and their staff in the CSR & Global Environment Center lead comprehensive, cross-organizational CSR activities throughout the entire group. CSR Promotion Plan Deepening Focus on Key Issues in Response to Society's Expectations In the 10 years since we formulated Our Group Philosophy, Daikin has rapidly expanded as a global corporate group, and with this expansion have come greater demands from society and greater corporate social responsibility (CSR). We have striven to fulfill our CSR by responding to the expectations of our various stakeholders while implementing our Group management philosophy. In 2011, the Daikin Group set targets for the coming five years that will determine our future. These targets reflect our resolve to step up our past activities and continue being a company that earns the trust of society. Daikin Formulates Our Group Philosophy as Its Basic Philosophy of Business Daikin formulated Our Group Philosophy with the aim of becoming a corporate group trusted by worldwide customers and where employees in all countries could work with pride. By sharing Our Group Philosophy as the fundamental business philosophy of the entire Group, it has become the cornerstone of all employees' thoughts and actions. The management policies and plans of Daikin Industries and all other Group companies were created in line with Our Group Philosophy, and we believe that the embodiment of this philosophy has brought us closer to becoming a truly global and excellent company. Our Group Philosophy (Page 12) 20 Daikin's CSR The Daikin Group Defines Its Philosophy on Responsibility towards Stakeholders We believe that the Daikin Group's CSR is to conduct business that puts Our Group Philosophy into practice and fulfills our responsibility to society by meeting the expectations of shareholders. How We View CSR in the Daikin Group (Page 13) Daikin Establishes Key Themes with Consideration for Business Plans and Impact on Stakeholders In light of the unique characteristics and business plans of Daikin, a global manufacturer of air conditioners and fluorochemicals, we conduct CSR based on key themes in four areas: the environment, quality & customer satisfaction, human resources, and social contribution. Key CSR Themes (Page 12) Step up CSR Activities by Listening to Customers We actively seek stakeholder involvement so that we can meet society's demands and continue sustainable growth. A particularly important part of our social role in developing countries is meeting local needs by building infrastructure and transferring technology. 21 Daikin's CSR Corporate Governance Ensuring Sound, Transparent Management Through Outside Viewpoints Unlike the committee system* in the United States, where decision-making and execution are completely independent of each other, the Daikin Group employs an integrated management framework in which directors assume responsibility for both management and execution. This integrated management framework effectively speeds up decision-making and execution. We also have mechanisms that ensure the soundness and transparency of our management. We appoint two or more outside board members with no vested interest in our company to take part in decision-making from an outsider's point of view. We also appoint two external auditors who not only sit in on the Auditors Meeting and the Board of Directors Meeting but also on key meetings such as the Executive Officers Meeting where they monitor and manage the execution of policy. The Group Auditors Meeting, made up of auditors from major group companies, meets periodically to ensure that the entire Group's auditing and management functions are constantly improving. We also strive to raise soundness and transparency through the Corporate Advisors, who offer unbiased operational advice, and the Personnel and Compensation Advisory Committee, which works to improve the transparency of personnel matters and the compensation of directors. * Committee system: A system with a committee comprising mostly outside directors instead of auditors to raise management transparency. Variety of Committees Protect Shareholders' Profit The Independent Committee was formed to Corporate Governance (as of end of March 2011) ensure that when there is a large-scale purchase of Daikin shares, Daikin's corporate value and shareholders' joint profit are protected. The committee helps provide our shareholders with impartial information so that there is transparency in our paperwork and dealings, as well as a high degree of objectivity. To ensure that the interests of stakeholders other than shareholders are respected and protected, the board of directors oversees the CSR Committee, the Corporate Ethics and Risk Management Committee, and the Disclosure Committee, all of which work to ensure that corporate governance is based firmly in corporate social responsibility. The Group will pursue various ways to ensure optimal corporate governance grounded in CSR by looking at ways that we can revise our next-term strategic management plan FUSION15. 22 Daikin's CSR Management Structure Conducting Integrated Group-Wide Promotion of Compliance and Risk Management In fiscal year 2003, the Daikin Group established the Corporate Ethics Committee as an organ for leading group-wide corporate ethics activities. In fiscal year 2007, the name was changed to the Corporate Ethics and Risk Management Committee for the purpose of carrying out integrated action in compliance and risk management. This committee holds two meetings a year. In the area of legal compliance, compliance and risk management leaders (CRLs) in each division gather the latest legal information and check to see if laws are reflected in company rules and manuals. There are also monthly daily triple checks to ensure everyone is following laws and company rules and manuals. The results of these checks are reported at monthly CRL meetings for the sake of sharing information. There are also self assessments carried out once a year to ensure that employees are following the Compliance Action Guidelines stipulated in the Handbook for Corporate Ethics. In the area of risk management, we have a group-wide cross-organizational risk management. Every year, self assessments are accompanied by risk assessment in all divisions. From the results, the key risks in each division are identified and measures are then created to reduce these risks. Based on the results of self assessments and risk assessment, the Corporate Ethics and Risk Management Committee draws up an annual company-wide to do list, along with a time frame and managers responsible for carrying out the tasks on the list. These tasks are carried out using the PDCA management cycle. For more information, see Risk and Measures.(Page 26) Building Compliance and Risk Management Systems for Overseas Group Companies Since fiscal 2003, nine major overseas group companies* have had CRLs (compliance and risk management leaders) to lead compliance activities based on the Daikin Industries' model and adapted to their own particular situation. With compliance committees, Corporate Ethics Handbooks, and regular self assessment and risk management conducted, these companies strive for the same level of compliance as Daikin Industries. Since fiscal 2009, these overseas companies have, like Daikin Industries, decided on key issues to work on each year based on the results of self assessments and risk assessments. In fiscal 2010, major overseas group companies requested their affiliates within the region to conduct self assessments and risk assessments with the aim of stepping up compliance and risk management activities across the entire group. Sharing Information with Major Overseas Group Companies Representatives of Daikin Industries regularly visit these companies and meet with the CRLs to see how they are progressing and share valuable information on overall group compliance and risk management. In fiscal 2010, Daikin Industries representatives joined the meetings of legal managers at Daikin group companies in China and Thailand, and discussed with legal managers in Daikin companies in the U.S. and Europe future plans for legal matters. Meeting of legal managers at Daikin in Thailand 23 Daikin's CSR In fiscal 2011, Daikin will speed up its compliance measures for major overseas group companies in each region, as well as improve the sharing of information among companies. * Major overseas companies: Daikin Europe N.V., Daikin America Inc., Daikin Air Conditioning (Americas) Inc, Daikin Air conditioning (Singapore) Pte., Daikin Industries (Thailand) Ltd., Daikin Australia Pty., Ltd., Daikin Air-conditioning (Shanghai) Co., Ltd., Daikin (China) Investment Co., Ltd., Daikin Fluorochemicals (China) Co., Ltd. Corporate Ethics and Risk Management Handbook for Corporate Ethics Daikin Industries' Handbook for Corporate Ethics Revised; Group Divisions and Overseas Group Companies Follow In fiscal 2008, Daikin Industries revised the Handbook for Corporate Ethics, a valuable guide to employee behavior. At that time, hearings were held with overseas group companies and the Group Compliance Guidelines were formulated to clarify common compliance matters for the entire group worldwide. Employees in Japan have been given compliance cards and are urged to carry these with them at all times to ensure that they always follow rules and ethics. The revisions provided an opportunity for renewed education and training. The multi-faceted training uses every opportunity to teach the basics of the handbook items and carry out practical study and discussion of case studies in a question-and-answer format. With revisions to the Handbook for Corporate Ethics, we also revised the departmental handbook that each company division could keep up with relevant laws. Each division uses these handbooks to conduct training whenever possible at each base at for each job level. At major overseas companies as well, the revised handbooks from Japan were the basis of ethics handbooks that were revised by each company in fiscal 2008. See Group Compliance Guidelines (Page 14) 24 Daikin's CSR Checking Legal Compliance through Audits Legal Audits Ensure Laws are Being Followed Based on self assessment results, legal compliance audits are conducted to make sure that all Daikin Industries business divisions and group companies in Japan are abiding by laws and regulations. In fiscal 2010, audits were conducted in six divisions of Daikin Industries and group companies in Japan. All relevant documents were inspected and compliance and risk management leaders (CRLs) led hearings with managers. Audit results were reported to general managers so that everyone could share an awareness of what must be done to improve compliance. Number of compliance violations, countermeasures FY2010 Details 0 No laws or regulations were broken. Education Case Studies on Intranet Help Spread Knowledge on Compliance The revisions to the Handbook for Corporate Ethics in fiscal 2008 provided an opportunity to also revise our education program to make it more focused on the practical matters of compliance. The Compliance Action Guidelines, created based on the Group Compliance Guidelines, were the topic of monthly training for compliance and risk management leaders (CRLs) in all divisions starting in September 2008. There was also training that used case studies to teach the most relevant laws in the areas of marketing, manufacturing, and purchasing. As well, new employees and Collection of case studies on compliance issues for newly appointed managers received compliance training. specially assigned employees In fiscal 2010, we strove to boost compliance knowledge and awareness with illustrated training material on the intranet on the subject of compliance case studies. Centered around specially assigned employees, the training material used easy-to-understand language and illustrations in stories based on eight topics including information management and the Anti-Monopoly Act. So far the site has had over 40,000 hits. We also held a seminar for officers on insider trading rules, as well as courses for sales managers on the Premiums and Representations Act and labeling restrictions, and for production division purchasers on the Subcontract Act. We are creating a second set of case studies so that we can continue to raise awareness of compliance. Continuous Compliance Education for Overseas Group Companies Daikin Industries requires overseas group companies to strictly follow their respective corporate ethics handbooks and to educate their employees on these handbooks. Each major overseas company has its own compliance system and conducts compliance education according to its particular needs. In fiscal 2010, Shanghai Daikin Air Conditioning Co., Ltd. translated Daikin Industries' collection of case studies into Chinese for in-house compliance education. 25 Daikin's CSR In-House Information Compliance Information Archive Used to Relay Importance of Compliance to Employees To raise employees' awareness of compliance, general managers and managers take every opportunity to give talks on the importance of compliance that draw on their wealth of experience. In November 2009, Daikin Industries created a publication called the Compliance Information Archives, a compilation of information that is given to managers. They then use this to continually keep their employees informed and aware of the importance of compliance. In fiscal 2010, the archives were revised to include the past year of new compliance information. We are looking into giving this information to a wider range of people. Help-Line Help-Line for Corporate Ethics Offers Counseling and Gathers Opinions We have a Help-Line for Corporate Ethics in the Legal Affairs, Compliance, and Intellectual Property Center, where employees from Daikin Group companies worldwide including retired employees can give opinions or receive consultation on all corporate ethics matters. Although corporate ethics issues are normally taken care of in the part of the organization where they occur, sometimes this is not easy. In that case, the corporate ethics manager, representing the Help-Line for Corporate Ethics, consults directly with the employee to hear his or her opinions. The help-line is designed to be worry-free and accessible: users can contact it by phone, fax, or mail and their names are kept confidential. All queries and opinions to the help-line are investigated, and discussions are held with the related company division, with measures promptly carried out so that problems do not reoccur. Drastic measures will be carried out in the case of a potential company-wide problem. To ensure that the help-line is well publicized, the help-line's contact information is provided on the compliance card that all employees carry with them at all times. Daikin Australia Pty., Ltd., Daikin Europe N.V., and Daikin Industries (Thailand) Ltd. each has its own help-line for corporate ethics. Risk and Measures Identifying the Most Important Risks, then Formulating and Implementing Measures With the Daikin Group expanding rapidly around the globe, we introduced company-wide, cross-organizational risk management in 2006 in order to quickly get an overall picture of risks from a global point of view and reduce the risks. In fiscal 2010, we identified risks related to product liability and quality, information leaks, and transfer pricing taxation as the most important risk areas, and the Corporate Ethics and Risk Management Committee created measures to deal with these. And for the divisions and group companies in Japan that that carried out risk assessment, hearings were held to determine what progress is being made in implementing legal audits. And during visits to overseas group companies, Daikin Industries confirmed progress in risk assessment implementation and measures being taken in response to important risks. 26 Daikin's CSR Most Important Risks and Measures Product Liability and Quality Risk In fiscal 2010, the Air Conditioning Manufacturing Division vowed to ensure the level of quality needed to build trust among customers, one of the three pillars crucial to reaffirming Daikin's reputation for technology. To this end, officers in charge of quality do a weekly follow-up covering everything from confirmation of where the defect occurred to prevention of reoccurrence. The aim is to ensure that defects to not happen again. And as a way to develop higher levels of quality, we switched to independent operation of design review with the development team at the core. Furthermore, to ensure timely and appropriate measures to deal with defects, information related to product safety is accumulated and reported monthly. Information Leaks Risk In October 2010, information managers and IT security managers held a joint meeting at which they once again drove home the importance of managing corporate secrets and protecting personal information. We plan to take the hardware technology already in use for information management in the Air Conditioning Manufacturing Division and apply it for measures in other business divisions. Transfer Pricing Taxation Risk With development bases expanding throughout the world, we must deal with the transfer pricing taxation risk that occurs during licensing of intellectual property generated at each base within the group. For example, we formulated the Global Group Intellectual Property Management Guidelines, which we ensure are familiar with the entire group. Preparing for Earthquakes Preparing for Earthquakes through Safety Confirmation System and Building Reinforcement In the event of an earthquake, ensuring the safety of employees and their families is first and foremost. To this end, in fiscal 2008 we built a safety confirmation system in which we have the cell phone numbers of all Daikin Industries' employees and their family members on file. In fiscal 2009, we expanded this system to include all Daikin Group company employees. We are also working towards protecting employees by gradually reinforcing company buildings against earthquakes. We are currently in the process of formulating a business continuity plan (BCP) under which we identify priority areas of business so that we can continue operations or recover within a short time after an earthquake. Following the March 2011 Great East Japan Earthquake, we are reviewing and upgrading our disaster response measures. For more information, see Response to the Great East Japan Earthquake. (Page 36) 27 Daikin's CSR Free Competition and Fair Business Dealings Thorough Compliance with the Anti-Monopoly Act, Misleading Representations Act, and Subcontract Act The Daikin group strives for fair business practices through measures for complying with the Anti-Monopoly Act, Misleading Representations Act, and the Subcontract Act. Besides education in each division, the Legal Affairs, Compliance, and Intellectual Property Center holds training when necessary. Employees also ensure they are in compliance through self assessments. In fiscal 2010, we put a collection of case studies on compliance issues for specially assigned employees on the intranet. These case studies gave employees a better understanding of the Anti-Monopoly Act and the Subcontract Act. For more information, see Education. (Page 25) Reasonable Business Entertainment and Gift-Giving Thorough Measures to Prevent Bribes The Group Compliance Guidelines state that we shall conduct business entertainment and gift-giving within the laws and customs of each country and region. We are especially strict in enforcing this in relation to gifts and entertainment for government officials. The Compliance Action Guidelines also refer to sound and transparent relations with government offices, compliance with the Political Funds Control Law and the Public Offices Election Act, and reasonable entertainment and gift-giving with suppliers, and we strive to thoroughly educate all employees on these points. Self assessments allow employees to stay in compliance with the above policies, and company-wide training is conducted thoroughly and regularly. 28 Daikin's CSR Proper Management and Use of Information Proper Management and Use of All Confidential Information Including That of Other Companies We manage and use confidential information appropriately, be it our own or that of other companies, according to the stipulations of the Rules for Managing Confidential Information, which we formulated in 2006. Our Compliance Action Guidelines also state our policy of proper acquisition and use of confidential information so that we can appropriately manage information. We apply this policy throughout the entire worldwide Daikin Group. For the management of information, the executive officer in charge of legal affairs at Daikin Industries assumes responsibility for managing corporate secrets. As well, divisions and departments have management systems that cover areas like assigning information managers to each division and department. The Legal Affairs, Compliance, and Intellectual Property Center has a Corporate Secrets Management Office. In addition to self assessments for ensuring employees are protecting confidential information, legal audits are also conducted regularly. Boosting Management of Technical Information In fiscal 2010, information managers and IT security managers held a joint meeting at which they once again drove home the importance of managing corporate secrets and protecting personal information. A system was also built to handle the input of technical information and to grasp details on how we use data. We have thus boosted control of database access and data use. As well, greater restrictions have been placed on the entering of/leaving from security zones in the workplace. Personal Information See Protecting Customer Information (Responsibility to Customers) (Page 178) 29 Daikin's CSR Managing Intellectual Property Rights Acquire Intellectual Property Rights While Respecting That of Other Companies As Well We recognize that intellectual property is a valuable company asset. Our Compliance Action Guidelines clearly state that we shall carry out proper and fair exercise of rights in response to violation of intellectual property as well as respect other company's intellectual property. The Legal Affairs, Compliance, and Intellectual Property Center manages intellectual property by assigning an intellectual property manager in each division. Along with active participation in seminars both inside and outside the company, training is held for specific groups such as new employees and engineers in order to deepen employee understanding of intellectual property. In new product and new technology development, part of the design review process involves verifying that these products and technologies do not infringe on existing patents. We will continue to conduct precise surveys so that we can not only acquire worldwide patents for successful R&D but also ensure that we avoid inadvertently infringing on the intellectual property of other companies. As part of efforts to strengthen systems overseas, our development bases have managers in charge of acquiring and protecting intellectual property rights. Encouraging Employees to Create Intellectual Property See Spurring the Creation of Intellectual Property (Resposibility to Employees) (Page 201) 30 Daikin's CSR Policy and Management Structure Respecting Human Rights in Action Guidelines Based on the U.N. Global Compact Daikin Industries makes employees aware of human rights issues as part of its goal of becoming a company free of discrimination where each individual is respected. To this end, regular self assessments by employees and annual legal compliance audits ensure that no human rights violations occur. There is also human rights education when necessary for officers and other management levels. In October 2008, Daikin Industries took part in the United Nations Global Compact for aligning operations to universally accepted principles on human rights, labor standards, the environment, and anti-corruption. Prior to that, we had formulated the Group Compliance Guidelines, which clarify group-wide compliance with our policy of no forced labor or child labor, respect for individual human rights and for diverse values and ways of looking at work, and the creation of an employee-friendly workplace. The Group Compliance Guidelines were revised to create the Compliance Action Guidelines, which detail the laws and regulations that the Daikin Group in Japan must follow. Based on the Global Compliance Guidelines, the Handbook for Corporate Ethics for each major overseas group company was revised to ensure thorough respect for human rights in the workplace. Daikin Industries will continue to urge all employees to be aware of human rights issues as we strive to abide by the letter and spirit of labor-related laws in Japan and around the world. Human Rights Education Holding Training for All Job Descriptions including Officers, Managers, and New Employees Part of Daikin Industries' human rights awareness efforts is the annual Antidiscrimination Committee meetings, under which is held human rights training for job descriptions including officers, managers, and new employees. Other efforts to raise human rights awareness among employees include articles in the company newsletter and human rights slogan contests at the factories. We are also a member of the Corporate Report Association of Human Rights Issues and the Osaka Corporate Human Rights Promotion Council, through which we take part in extensive human rights awareness activities that will make our own employees more conscious of human rights. Preventing Sexual Harassment Educating Managers on Sexual Harassment The Compliance Action Guidelines promote respect for human rights and diversity and compliance with labor laws in the workplace. It is our policy to respect human rights by building a fair workplace that is free of sexual harassment and power harassment. We also carry out company-wide sexual harassment education: there are regular explanatory sessions as part of section and division managers meetings at all Daikin bases. 31 Daikin's CSR Overall CSR (Include SRI) Daikin Group Socially Responsible Investment Indexes Chosen for inclusion in the Dow Jones Sustainability Indexes (for nine consecutive years up to FY2010) Chosen for inclusion in the Morningstar Socially Responsible Investment Index Sustainable Management Received a Silver Class rating for corporate sustainability from Sustainable Asset Management (SAM), a Swiss asset management company Environmental Protection Daikin Industries Earned LEED® Gold certification from the U.S. Green Building Council for the Daikin-McQuay Applied Development Center Daikin Ales Aoya Selected for inclusion in the list of 100 top companies contributing to biodiversity, sponsored by the Organization for Landscape and Urban Green Architecture Daikin Australia Received the 2010 ARBS HVAC Project Excellence Award for the new head office Daikin (China) Investment Co., Ltd. Green Brand Award at the 2010 China Brand & Communication Forum Chosen one of World's Top 100 Lowest Carbon Producing Companies 32 Daikin's CSR Social Contribution Recognition of Customer Satisfaction Daikin Industries DESICA System Japan Society of Mechanical Engineers Award (Technology award) 2009 Japan Society of Refrigerating and Air Conditioning Engineers Technology Award Daikin-McQuay Applied Development Center RAC Cooling Industry Award for asymmetric screw compressor Air-cooled screw chiller chosen one of best 100 new products by a building equipment industry publication User manual for residential room air conditioner Honored in the 2010 Technical Publication and Online Communication Competition by the East Tennessee Chapter of the Society for Technical Communication Daikin AC (Americas), Inc. AHR Expo Innovation Award for Daikin Altherma, Quaternity, and Daikin Inverter Duct Line Daikin Australia Most Satisfied Award in the 2010 Canster Blue air conditioner survey Daikin (China) Investment Co., Ltd. China Electronics Association 2010 Award for Retail Electronics Brand with Outstanding Satisfaction among Chinese Consumers Flash Streamer humidifying air purifier Multi-functional VRV system F Series residential air conditioners Awards in the categories of design, trend, and low-carbon at a consumer electronics trade show in China 2010 Award in China honoring companies for outstanding customer relations 33 Daikin's CSR Recognition of Occupational Safety and Health Daikin Airconditioning (Singapore) Pte Ranked BizSafe Level 5*1 *1 Ranked according to the implementation level of occupational safety and health Recognition of Personnel Systems Daikin Sunrise Settsu Co., Ltd. 2010 Minister of Health, Labour and Welfare Award in Awards for Outstanding Workplaces for the Disabled American Air Filter International (AAF) Investors in People (IIP) Silver standard from the Chartered Institute of Personnel and Development (CIPD) Daikin Europe N.V. Chosen for the Top Employers 2011 awards*2 for the sixth year in a row *2 In recognition of companies with outstanding human resource systems OYL Named an Outstanding Employer by Malaysia's Department of Social Welfare for providing the disabled with employment opportunities 34 Daikin's CSR Outside Expert Comments on Daikin Group CSR (June 2011) Japan's number one priority is to recover from the aftermath of the Great East Japan Earthquake. Daikin Industries can play an important role in this respect. Besides providing monetary donations and supplies for victims of the disaster, as an air conditioner manufacturer Daikin can make a key contribution to energy savings in the face of the current electricity shortage. More than anything, Daikin can fulfill its social responsibility through its business by stirring awareness and action among households and corporations about saving energy through air conditioning. Daikin Industries has already begun effective action in this regard. First, since before the earthquake, the company has been pioneering energy-efficient and energy-saving technologies such as inverters and heat pumps and has shown them to be effective in reducing energy use. Daikin has helped proliferate the use of inverter air conditioners in China, for example. By fully taking advantage of these energy-efficient and energy-saving technologies, Japan will be able to accelerate energy saving in the summer of 2011. Mitsuo Ogawa Second, Daikin has begun a service in which air conditioners are connected to a network, President, Craig Consulting Ltd. and when customers use more than a set amount of energy Daikin Industries controls the Visiting professor, Nagoya University of Commerce and room temperature to make up for this excess use. By making use of its technological Business strength, Daikin Industries is aiming to develop solutions such as net zero energy Profile buildings (use of primary energy amounts to zero) as part of its ongoing, long-term Established Craig Consulting in efforts. 2004 after working at various think tanks and foreign consulting Third, Daikin offers residential air conditioner users advice on energy saving on its companies. Specializes in website. For example, customers can view easy-to-understand illustrations and proven stimulating companies' organizational structure and data to learn how to save a certain percentage in electricity by following a few home human resources through CSR. heating and cooling tips. His books have covered topics including how ISO 26000 will There are a number of ways I think Daikin could improve its overall CSR. change company management and how to boost the CSR value Daikin Industries is a global corporation with about two-thirds of its approximately 40,000 of companies (published by employees working outside Japan. The company's management philosophy stresses Nikkei Publishing Inc.). 'people-centered management'. This policy should be fully implemented worldwide, and I think that success in this regard will depend upon how well Daikin achieves diversity of human resources. Since more than half of Daikin employees are not Japanese, it only makes sense that there should be more of these people in management positions. And Daikin must create a corporate climate that incorporates the opinions and values of a diverse range of people. To this end, the company needs a way to find and foster not only Japanese but any employees with advanced knowledge of international management. And these employees must live and breathe Daikin Industries' management philosophy. I want to see Daikin strive to be a leader in diversity management in Japan. A company as advanced as Daikin Industries must conduct a high level of CSR—and it must take this CSR beyond its own walls and include its entire supply chain. Suppliers today must do more than just provide good quality at a good price; they must also focus on compliance, respect human rights, and conduct fair labor practices. Daikin Industries will be required to educate its suppliers on these. They are particularly important as supply chain efforts become increasingly important in certification for ISO 26000, the international standard for social responsibility. I believe that Daikin Industries' efforts in areas like these will make it a company even more capable of pursuing globalization. 35 Daikin's CSR We would like to express our deepest sympathy to all those who are suffering from the earthquake occurred on March 11, 2011 and pray for the swift recovery of the disaster area. The following information is from the printed version of the CSR Report (Japanese version), published July 20, 2011. Establishment of Task Force The day after the Great East Japan Earthquake, the Daikin Group set up the Emergency Response Headquarters headed by the Noriyuki Inoue, Chairman and CEO. The Emergency Response Headquarters strove to confirm the whereabouts of employees and their families, and employees of partner companies and suppliers, and provide them with assistance. No persons in the Daikin Group were hurt in the disaster. Although the Kashima Plant (Kamisu City, Ibaraki Prefecture) suffered some equipment damage, production started up as of April 1. The Yuki Plant of Nippon Muki Co, Ltd. (Yuki City, Ibaraki Prefecture) experienced a temporary power outage and had to stop operations, but was able to resume on March 25. State of Supply Chain, Effect on Business Due to the earthquake, there was a shortage of parts and in April we had to temporarily stop taking orders from customers. To minimize the effect on business activities, we made maintenance of the supply chain our top priority and conducted efforts including helping suppliers in their recovery, searching for substitute parts and developing new ones in-house, ensuring sufficient inventory, and diversifying our means of procurement. As of July 2011, full recovery was in sight. We will strengthen emergency response abilities to prepare ourselves for future emergencies and ensure stable procurement by maintaining multiple suppliers and allocating production as we work to quickly build up a procurement network both in Japan and overseas. Improved Business Continuity Plans and Safety Measures The recent earthquake gave us a chance to revamp our disaster measures. We are boosting our company-wide safety measures by reviewing the earthquake resistance of company buildings, ensuring security for chemical plants, and making sure that all systems are safe. We are also creating a business continuity plan (BCP) that will prevent damage to manufacturing facilities and strengthen the supply chain. Using what we learned from the recent earthquake, we are improving our system for determining the whereabouts of employees and their families, and putting satellite phones in our major business sites as part of an emergency communication network. We are also revising our crisis management in areas such as ensuring we have sufficient stockpiles to use as aid in case of emergency. 36 Daikin's CSR For Customers Using Our Products The Daikin website has advice on how our residential, commercial, and industrial users can safely use their products. Information includes what to do during a power outage and when comes power back on, and what to do with air conditioning equipment when taking refuge indoors due to the accident at Tokyo Electric Power Company's Fukushima Daiichi Nuclear Power Plant. We sent about 100 service engineers to the Sendai Service Station. The engineers conducted free-of-charge primary inspections of air conditioners in the stricken area, and Daikin paid for half of the necessary repair costs for products. We also conducted free-of-charge primary inspections of oil hydraulic equipment. Response to Energy Problems Triggered by the Earthquake The energy supply shortage resulting from the earthquake has prompted all of Japanese society to look at its energy consumption: and not just how it can cut back on the amount of electricity used, but also how it can cut peak energy use during the daytime when energy demand is at its highest. This goes for the rest of the world as well. Daikin has an important role to play in this respect as a manufacturer of air conditioners, products that consume a large percentage of the electricity society uses. The Daikin Group has worked to meet this year's need to save energy by proposing ways to cut air conditioner energy use and contribute to the reduction of peak energy use. In the medium-term, we will develop and release products that help the world reduce the amount of energy use. In the long-term, we will contribute to realization of energy management that incorporates demand efficiency of entire towns, and effective use of renewable energy. Support for Recovery of Disaster-Stricken Areas To aid and support disaster victims, on March 16, five days after the earthquake, we decided to donate a total of 300 million yen (100 million yen in monetary donations and relief supplies: 600 commercial air purifiers, and 500 far infrared heaters). Future recovery support efforts by Daikin will include helping companies affected get back on track and rebuilding infrastructure such as hospitals and schools. Meeting the Increasing Need for Energy Savings With an electricity shortage expected during the summer in Japan, the government urged companies and households to cut energy use by 15% across the board. This would require energy savings for air conditioners, which use a significant portion of the power consumed by households and companies. The Daikin Group works to offer energy-saving solutions for commercial air conditioners and provide households with information on how to save energy at home. Daikin has a website giving hints on how users can get by on less energy during the summer (in Japanese only). 37 Daikin's CSR Ways to Save Energy with Commercial Air Conditioners As a short-term measure, Daikin is suggesting ways that corporate customers can save energy without having to upgrade or buy new air conditioners. (For details, see Power-Saving Control Center Commercial Air Conditioner.) (Page 88) Our medium-term efforts will include releasing air conditioners that incorporate energy-saving features and that offer total energy-saving solutions. Examples of How to Save Energy The remote energy-saving control system allows energy efficiency with minimal manpower Energy-Saving Maximum 20% through monitoring of the local weather conditions (based on data from the Japan Meteorological Tuning System energy savings Agency) and analysis of the installation and operational status of air conditioners. VRV Energy-Saving Our VRV Energy-Saving Tuning service helps customers who have purchased Daikin building Maximum 20% Tuning air conditioners we have been selling since before 2006 save energy. energy savings Sprinkling water on the air conditioner outdoor unit stabilizes operation and makes cooling more Maximum 12% Ene-cut efficient. energy savings By setting an operation time period for each air conditioner, electricity usage is controlled on Maximum 30% Demand Control each unit. The remote controller is used to easily set each unit to operate on demand. energy savings Ways to Save Electricity at Home In April 2011, Daikin conducted a survey of 600 men and women across Japan asking if they were conscious of saving energy in the summer of 2011. The response was 'yes' for 99% of respondents in the Tohoku and Kanto areas and at least 90% in the rest of the country. In response to a survey question asking what appliance could significantly save energy, 'air conditioner' received the most responses (90%). However, many of these people also said they were trying to save energy without knowing exactly how to do so. For the results of these Daikin therefore decided to conduct experiments in how to save energy and the results were experiments, see the section of Daikin website titled The place on the website. Daikin Air Survey Team (in Japanese only). How to Save Energy at Home and Results of Energy-Saving Experiments How to save energy Before energy saving After energy saving Effect 0.84 kWh 0.65 kWh 22.6% energy Increase air conditioner temperature by 2°C*1. (when operated for 6 (when operated for 6 savings hours) hours) Block direct sunlight with an outdoor awning. Clean the 1.120 kWh 0.876 kWh 21.8% energy filter. (when operated for 6 (when operated for 6 savings Place the outdoor unit in a breezy location*2. hours) hours) *1 Date of experiment: May 24; temperature difference between inside and outside: 4°C/2°C Assumption: Outdoor temperature of 30°C; set temperature of 26°C/28°C Actual: Outdoor temperature of 22°C; set temperature of 18°C/20°C *2 Date of experiment: May 20; temperature difference between inside and outside: 7°C Assumption: Outdoor temperature of 35°C; set temperature of 28°C Actual: Outdoor temperature of 25°C; set temperature of 18°C 38 Daikin's CSR Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2011 −Web version− Key Activities List of Fiscal 2010 Key Activities 40 The Quest for Next-Generation Refrigerants 42 Solutions for Curbing Global Warming 48 Improving Quality 53 People-Centered Management 56 Raising Environmental Awareness 59 39 Key Activities 40 Key Activities 41 Key Activities Refrigerants are gases that are indispensable for cooling and warming the air. Because refrigerants have such a large impact on the environment, it is the duty of manufacturers to find refrigerants that exert minimal environmental impact and are safe, efficient, and economical. Fluorocarbon is a general name for a compound containing carbon, hydrogen, fluorine, chlorine, and bromine. Not only was it used as a refrigerant in air conditioners, freezers, and refrigerators, it was also widely used in other ways, including as a foaming agent for insulation such as Styrofoam and a cleaning agent for precision electronic parts. It was discovered that certain substances in fluorocarbons had a negative impact on the environment, and so they became subject to international restrictions. 42 Key Activities Global Warming Impact from Emission of Fluorocarbons International Treaties to Reduce the Environmental Impact from Refrigerants Preventing Ozone Layer Depletion and the Effects of Global Warming In 1987, the Montreal Protocol was adopted for restrictions on the production, use, and trading of substances believed to be responsible for ozone layer depletion. The protocol designated the CFCs conventionally used as refrigerants in air conditioners as specified fluorocarbons and called for the phasing-out of their production by the end of 1995 in developed countries. CFCs were replaced by HCFCs, which have a relatively low impact on the ozone layer. HCFCs have since been designated under the Montreal Protocol and will cease being manufactured in developed countries by 2020 and in developing countries by 2030. HCFCs began to be replaced in the developed countries by HFCs, which do not deplete the ozone layer. However, HFCs are also greenhouse gases, although they do not contribute to global warming as much as CFCs. The Kyoto Protocol, adopted in 1997, calls for reducing their emissions. 43 Key Activities As Developing Countries Use More Refrigerants, the Time Comes for the Shift to Next-Generation Refrigerants The World's Quest for Refrigerants to Replace HCFCs With air conditioner use spreading throughout developing countries, the amount of refrigerants used is expected to rise. Under the Montreal Protocol, the elimination of HCFCs in developing countries is set for later than in developed countries, which means that even now in developing countries HCFC22, which has an impact on the ozone layer, is being used. That being said, starting in 2013, HCFCs are slated to be gradually phased out in developing countries, so the time for a refrigerant switchover is approaching. Because the Kyoto Protocol calls for the reduction of HFC emissions, there is a rush to find the next refrigerant to enable developing countries to bypass HFCs altogether. It will take international collaboration to decide which refrigerant should be adopted. This is because a switch to a new refrigerant will involve numerous issues: these include ISO standards, restrictions and standards in each country, standards governing equipment safety, methods of installation and maintenance, systems for supplying refrigerants, and methods for disposal of equipment. We are currently in a crucial period for the search for the refrigerant that will become the global standard for the next generation. 44 Key Activities Daikin Provides Opportunities for Discussing Next-Generation Refrigerants Decision on Refrigerant Must Take into Account Factors Including Environmental Performance, Safety, and Price A number of substances are being considered as a next-generation refrigerant: HFC32, a type of HFC with a relatively low global warming potential; HFO refrigerants, which have a low global warming potential but stability and price issues; and natural substances such as CO2 and propane, which have refrigerating characteristics. All of these must undergo an overall assessment that considers factors such as impact on global warming, safety factors like flammability and toxicity, and price. Besides the effect of the refrigerant when it is released into the atmosphere, one must also consider the energy efficiency of air conditioners that use it. Important in terms of cost is not just the price of the refrigerant itself but also factors like the cost of producing air conditioners that use the refrigerant. The qualities sought for a residential air conditioner differ from those for a commercial air conditioner, and the performance sought for hot water and space heaters differs from that for freezing and refrigeration equipment. All this means that we must select the most adequate refrigerant for each case. Frank Discussions with Relevant Parties Worldwide Daikin is the only air conditioner manufacturer that also makes refrigerant, and we aid in the selection of appropriate refrigerants by creating opportunities for academic societies and industry organizations to gather and exchange ideas and opinions. We take every opportunity to discuss the selection and application of next-generation refrigerants: at international conferences and exhibits in the vast market of China, as well as in Europe, the U.S., and around Asia, we discuss topics like refrigerant trends and Lecture at an international efforts to reduce emissions with members of the United Nations and administrative conference organizations in countries around the world. Exchanging opinions with academics 45 Key Activities What Our Stakeholders Are Saying Opinions from Participants at International Conferences The refrigerant with the lowest global warming potential is not necessarily the best. We have to make a choice based on a range of criteria including equipment efficiency and ease of use. HFO, HFC32, and propane all have differing flammability characteristics. We must consider safety measures appropriate to each type of refrigerant. Cost is important in developing countries. It would be difficult to use an expensive refrigerant, not just in terms of initial cost, but also in terms of running costs and the cost of equipment replacement. 46 Key Activities Daikin Efforts to Reduce the Environmental Impact of Refrigerants Promoting Research into the Practical Use of a Range of Next-Generation Refrigerants Daikin is working to find and apply next-generation refrigerants. Our focus is on selecting the right refrigerants for the particular application. From natural refrigerants to HFCs with low global warming impact, we are aiming for application of the most adequate refrigerant for each case. Besides testing factors like energy efficiency and cost during refrigerant use, we are conducting exhaustive experiments into risks such as flammability to find the most appropriate next-generation refrigerant. Daikin has its sights set on HFC32 as the next-generation refrigerant for residential and commercial air conditioners. A type of HFC, it has only about one-third the global warming potential of currently used HFCs, and it offers superb energy efficiency. It is also similar in price to current refrigerants. However, because it is mildly flammable, it has never been put to practical use. Lowering global warming potential inevitably raises flammability. The ISO is currently revising its basic safety standards for refrigeration and air conditioning equipment. The revision relates to categories of flammability for refrigerants with the new category of mildly flammable being added. This would mean that a substance like HFC32 with a low flammability could be adopted as a refrigerant. Daikin is taking part in working groups and calling for the practical application of refrigerants with mild flammability. Low-Impact Refrigerants (Page 97) Creating Ways to Prevent Refrigerants from Leaking As well as conducting research into the practical application of next-generation refrigerants, Daikin is working to design air conditioners that emit as little refrigerant as possible into the atmosphere. For example, we are designing air conditioners that are easy to install and that have joints that prevent leaks even if the equipment is improperly installed. We are also working to make such joints the industry standard worldwide. For the recovery of refrigerants, Europe already has a system for periodic inspection to ensure that no refrigerant has leaked from the equipment. The Japan Refrigeration and Air Conditioning Industry Association has begun creating industry guidelines, and Daikin is actively participating in this effort. Daikin will continue to work towards the application of refrigerants that reduce environmental impact by seeking next-generation refrigerants for practical application and by creating ways to prevent refrigerants from leaking from equipment. Recovering and Destroying Fluorocarbons from Customers' Air Conditioners (Page 115) 47 Key Activities Like the name suggests, a net zero energy building or facility is one in which measures such as improved energy efficiency performance and the utilization of renewable energy and unused energy result in net energy consumption of zero. Japan has set a goal of having all new buildings achieve zero net energy consumption by 2030. Other countries are looking into similar initiatives. Providing Total Solutions for Achieving Comfort and Energy Efficiency Aiming for Zero Energy Consumption in Buildings Energy consumption has been on the rise in recent years in office buildings and other commercial facilities, creating a greater demand for energy-efficiency measures. Around the world, net zero energy buildings (ZEB) are being achieved through countermeasures for covering all on-site energy needs by increasing energy efficiency of buildings and facilities and by utilizing renewable energy. To bring a building's net energy consumption down to zero, something must be done about air conditioning equipment, which accounts for about 40% of all energy consumption. And air conditioning is not just about temperature: it also serves the key functions of maintaining a comfortable indoor environment in terms of humidity and air quality. To this end, the Daikin Group, in response to the various types of weather and customer needs around the world, provides versatile energy management that gives a comfortable room environment and a reduction in energy use. Through such solutions, we aim to contribute to the realization of net zero energy buildings. 48 Key Activities An Overall Solution towards the Net Zero Energy Building Realization of the net zero energy building will require further technological development that covers maximum utilization of renewable energy, more efficient products and systems, and electricity control systems that can cope with the electricity demands of future smart grids. The Daikin Group has been developing technologies and creating solutions that will bring us closer to buildings with a net energy consumption of zero. European Net Zero Energy Project Begins (Page 91) LEED® Gold Certification for Daikin-McQuay Applied Development Center in the United States (Page 114) 49 Key Activities Case Study: Solution in China Use Heat Recovery of Unused Energy for Heating The utilization of renewable energy is indispensable for the realization of net zero energy buildings. Air conditioners use the heat from sources such as the outside air for room heating and cooling. But by also utilizing previously unused energy sources, such as heat from rivers, underground, and sewage, even more energy-efficient heating and cooling is possible. For example, Daikin provided a large public housing district in Beijing, China, with a system that uses the heat from recycled urban water in a sewage treatment plant to make warm water that is used for floor heating. In this cold region, combustion-type heaters with high CO2 emissions are common since they can quickly generate warmth. However, thanks to this system, using the sewage heat, which is warmer than the outside air, compensates for the lack of heat compared to combustion-type systems, and the result has been an annual reduction of 4,300 tons of CO2 emissions compared to gas-combustion heating. And at our worldwide R&D sites, such as the Applied Development Center, jointly established by Daikin and McQuay, and the Environment Research Center at Daikin Europe N.V., we are conducting R&D for new products and systems that use renewable energy and accelerate our energy efficiency efforts. Case Study: Solution in Japan Collective Management of Multiple Buildings to Comply w ith Revised Rationalization in Energy Use Law Daikin offers a total energy management service that covers energy efficiency and environmental consideration; a service solution in which, in addition to maintenance, we measure and analyze energy use and suggest ways to use energy optimally. For example, customers get maximum energy efficiency through measures such as reminders to turn off lights, the elimination of excessive cooling, and optimal control of air conditioning equipment according to the usage environment such as changes in temperature and humidity, and the intended use of the room. 50 Key Activities In Japan, the revised Rationalization in Energy Use Law went into effect in April 2010, switching the energy management focus from individual places of business to entire companies. The revised law now covers entities such as companies possessing multiple stores using small amounts of energy and universities with multiple campuses. The revised law provided an opportunity for Daikin's collective building energy management system centered around D-BIPS, a building integrated monitoring board. This system allows collective management of commercial air conditioning systems in multiple places of business, making possible reductions in air conditioning energy use of approximately 20%. Remote monitoring center Case Study: Solution in the U.S. Total Solution for Enhancing Energy-Efficiency Performance of a Data Center to Achieve Energy Saving in Society The widespread use of IT in today's society has created a new trend in which many companies' systems are outsourced to data centers. Whether it's a paperless office or an online store, IT has reduced the movement of people and the use of goods to reduce the environmental impact on society. On the other hand, data centers are taking up an increasing amount of energy, not just for the IT equipment itself, but for the air conditioning needed to keep the equipment cool and other devices such as uninterruptible power supply (UPS): these all need to be energy efficient. Phoenix NAP, an industry-leading data center and network access point in Arizona, needed desperately to reduce its power consumption. In addition, it needed an air conditioning system that could provide stable cooling in case of a power failure or breakdown of air conditioning, as well as one whose cooling capacity could be easily increased when the data center expanded. That's where Daikin came in with a solution for the design, installation, and operation of an air conditioning system. To meet every need of Phoenix NAP, Daikin proposed optimal energy-efficient equipment based on an energy diagnosis, and provided several redundancies and seamless connection with UPS system in case of breakdown or power failure. The system was designed using Daikin's modular central plant system. This system standardizes units such as the air conditioner, VariableFrequency Drive, and control devices into a module, which is assembled in a plant before going to the site. Because it can be easily expanded and moved, the system offers a flexible response to the needs of the data center for expansion, and it can be easily installed and tested for functions and operation. Thanks to this system, installation at the Phoenix NAP data center took just two weeks, compared with the three to four months it would normally take to install a conventional system. The system also achieved 30% more Module central system energy efficiency than previous Daikin systems. 51 Key Activities What Our Stakeholders Are Saying Looking Forw ard to Even Greater Energy-Efficiency Performance Ian McClarty President Phoenix NAP A big requirement for us was to ensure that we had great power usage effectiveness (PUE) from our chiller systems, which account for a large amount of the power we consume. The Daikin systems are incredibly efficient, and air conditioning levels can be adjusted to meet the load requirements of the data center. We anticipate that Daikin will produce chillers that offer even better performance and service than offered now. 52 Key Activities Customers have increasingly advanced needs that must be met with expert knowledge and techniques in development and design. At the same time, division of labor is increasing in the design process, and highly experienced and skilled engineers are retiring. To meet customer expectations with superior products, for several years now we have been having our experienced engineers pass on not only their on-the-job skills to younger employees, but also their knowledge and know-how that is hard to put into words. SSM Shares Individual Skills and Know-How Problems Segmented and Information Shared We introduced the Stress Strength Model (SSM) at the Shiga Plant in 2007, and have been using it to pass on knowledge, strengthen human resource capabilities, and provide better products. SSM systematizes the knowledge related to the occurrence of problems that tend to occur in products and processes. It is a framework for predicting and preventing problems during design and planning. Problems are segmented into five perspectives based on Accumulated knowledge shared their cause, and this information is compiled into a database. SSM thus makes it possible on intranet to systematize individual knowledge accumulated by an engineer over his or her career, including knowledge of problems and how to deal with them. 53 Key Activities Normally in quality control using SSM, the accumulated knowledge is used to inspect for defects in the final stage of product design. But at Daikin Industries, it is used from the initial design stages to prevent wasted time and effort. Improving Techniques and Awareness of Young Employees to Meet Customers' Product Expectations Segmentation Process Contributes to Human Resource Development In the process of the segmentation of problems, small groups of experienced and young employees brainstorm to determine the cause of problems. This creates an opportunity for human resource development by allowing young employees to sharpen their ability to understand the essence of problems. Small group activity for segmentation What Our Stakeholders Are Saying Making a Habit of Questioning through Segmentation in Small-Group Activities Hiroaki Nishino Device Technology Product Development Group Air-Conditioner Manufacturing Division At small-group activities for segmentation, experienced employees have younger staff think about why problems occur. This gets young staff in the habit of thinking about the mechanisms of problems. Experienced employees don't just lecture; rather, they let young staff think and speak up for themselves to gain a better understanding. This results in a team in which ideas come from the bottom up. 54 Key Activities SSM Raises Everyone's Aw areness All employees in the design divisions use database information. It helps young employees detect problems and prevents defects caused from failure to notice or understand. It also helps young employees improve their techniques in a shorter time. Daikin Industries takes a variety of measures to make SSM an integral part of the company at the earliest possible stage. For example, all employees take part in a monthly meeting at which effective case studies are shared, and the company has established an in-house SSM skills certification course. A three-level system for certification of employees' knowledge of both SSM theory and practical skills helps raise motivation. The result of these activities has been a dramatic improvement in quality, and in the awareness of the prevention of reoccurrences of problems. Segmentation at small-group Information used in initial stages activities combining experienced and young workers Instead of simply doing a final check, By having everyone brainstorm and share workers use accumulated information for knowledge, think about causes of reference in the initial design stages to problems, and segment these causes, ensure there are no defects: this prevents Daikin is training young workers who can problems from occurring in the first place. determine exactly why something fails. All ideas shared at monthly SSM skills certification boosts SSM meetings user capabilities At a monthly meeting, employees from all There are three levels of SSM skills relevant divisions share examples of how certification: novice, intermediate, and accumulated information is being used advanced. This certification system helps effectively. employees understand how much they know, boosts their motivation, and ensures that SSM gets used to maximum efficiency in Daikin work processes. A Worldwide Effort—from Design though All Stages of Manufacturing Provide High-Quality Products to Anyw here in the World At the Shiga Plant, SSM is utilized not just in design but also in all divisions related to air conditioner manufacturing, from supplier auditing to maintenance of manufacturing facilities. In 2010, the Sakai Plant also introduced SSM. As Daikin establishes plants around the world, it is crucial that we are able to provide customers, wherever they are, with the same consistently high quality. We will continue spreading the use of this system, at bases in China and India, and at our suppliers, so that we can offer customers quality that satisfies their needs. 55 Key Activities In the Daikin Group, we believe that by having employees act based on our group philosophy and by building an environment where employees can grow by implementing People-Centered Management, we can achieve sustainable development and growth. As we accelerate business expansion on a global scale, we will have a greater number of employees of differing nationalities and values, and we will have more locally-hired management members. Against this background, we will implement our group philosophy and People-Centered Management and coordinate the direction of our worldwide Group companies so that we can become a truly global and excellent company. Implementing People-Centered Management (PCM) AAF of the U.K. Starts PCM Activities American Air Filter International (AAF) of the United Kingdom is a member of the OYL Group, which joined the Daikin Group in 2006. In January 2009, the company started a PCM (People-Centered Management) initiative with the full support of Daikin and OYL. In this model case for the Daikin Group, ten project members from various divisions lead the implementation of People-Centered Management through organizational reform involving all employees. 56 Key Activities Stimulate Both Vertical and Lateral Communication The focus of the phase one of PCM activities is communication between employees and management and between employees of different departments. Management personnel strive to provide information on business policy and the current state of management. In response, employees give their opinions, which are reflected in company management, creating a virtuous cycle that helps the company grow and allow employees to raise job satisfaction. More active dialog was realized through an in-house newsletter and workplace discussion, and this created greater individual enthusiasm and consent. A questionnaire showed that 94% of employees feel that their opinions are being reflected in company business, and employees are now more eager to take action to contribute to the company. A range of established activities promote in-house communication 57 Key Activities Step up CSR to Raise Employee Pride and Job Satisfaction The phase two of PCM activities began in February 2010 and involved reforming the development system in order to raise employee pride and job satisfaction. For employees who wanted to make greater contributions, the company offered measures that included recognition of individual talent and career paths in line with this talent. It also created an occupational safety and health system and stepped up community service activities. As a result of these efforts, employees felt more a part of the company, and AAF successfully realigned its organization so that employees were eager to solve problems. These efforts were recognized in November 2010 by the Chartered Institute of Personnel and Development (CIPD), which awarded AAF with the Investors in People (IIP) Silver standard to honor outstanding human resource development. In April 2011, AAF was awarded the Investors in People Gold standard and soon after the company was invited to become the Investors in People Champion organization. What Our Stakeholders Are Saying Helping Employees Want to Get Involved Lynne Jackson Strategic Planning Associate AAF A key to the success of the PCM activities is having employees and management engage in frequent and earnest dialog to understand each other's desires. AAF has striven to raise employee motivation to get involved by ensuring that everyone understands the significance, goals, and merits of PCM activities. I believe that it is precisely because of the participation of all employees that AAF was awarded the IIP Silver, Gold and Champion standards. A Complete Foundation for Implementing PeopleCentered Management Ryan Noble Project Manager AAF Employee participation is crucial to the success of PCM activities. Over the past two and a half years, we have built a complete foundation for implementing People-Centered Management by having employees think, speak up, and act on their own initiative. We plan to continue making PCM an even more integral part of the corporate climate of AAF. Making PCM an Integral Part of Worldwide Group Companies Putting Individual Philosophy into Action Leads to Company Grow th Based on the AAF model, Daikin's worldwide Group companies are putting into action the Daikin group philosophy and People-Centered Management, and at the March 2011 Group Management Conference, worldwide companies agreed to work towards this goal. Under the strategic management plan FUSION 15 beginning in fiscal 2011, one of the key themes is to further instill our group philosophy in the global group. Plans call for having management of Daikin bases develop a greater understanding of the group philosophy, holding training for leaders, and equipping companies with tools such as case study collections and training videos. By having employees implement group philosophy and by creating an atmosphere conducive to employee growth through rewarding work, we strive to become a truly global and excellent company. 58 Key Activities The Circle of Life is a Daikin environmental education program that gives children the chance to become aware of and think about the relationship between living things and the environment, and between global environmental issues and the daily life of people in Japan. In addition to four lessons (five classes) led by the elementary school teachers, there are practical environmental lessons led by Daikin employees in response to school requests. Circle of Life Program Focuses on Forest Issues On the Theme of Forest Issues in Indonesia Daikin Industries developed the Circle of Life environmental education program on the theme of biodiversity and began implementing it on a voluntary basis in elementary schools in Japan in April 2010. As of March 2011, 34 schools had participated in the program. 59 Key Activities This program follows the subject of a reforestation project that Daikin undertook together with an international NGO starting in June 2008 in Java, Indonesia. The program gives children the chance to become aware of the relationship between living things and the environment, and how people's lives would be affected in case of damage to ecosystems of which humans are a part, as well as the intricate connection between their daily lives and forest issues in Indonesia. The Circle Of Life (available in Japanese only) （http://www.daikin.co.jp/csr/edu/index.html） Program Raises Awareness of Relationship between Environmental Issues and Daily Life Children Learn Connection betw een Environment and Living Things In the program, children do role-plays that make them think about the issue of cutting down trees in the forest from the perspectives of various people. Children learn that their plentiful lives in Japan are partly responsible for environmental destruction in other parts of the world, and they cultivate the ability to develop a solution while understanding that all players in an issue have differing viewpoints. In a post-program survey of children, more than 90% responded that they would like to do whatever they can to solve environmental problems, and their comments included the following: The world is more connected than I thought and I'm more interested in the environment and I want to save the Earth. This program has been successful in getting children to think of ways to earnestly tackle environmental problems on their own. Worksheets like this raise children's environmental awareness Daikin provides a variety of teaching materials using photos, graphs, and other visuals aids 60 Key Activities What Our Stakeholders Are Saying Message to Children from Global Corporation Daikin Ryuichi Wada Principal Mito Elementary School, Higashi-Osaka It's impossible to be a global company these days without taking a global view and working to protect the environment. This program is opening the hearts and minds of today's children —those who will build the next generation—to the world around them. I really felt that these hands-on lessons inspired the children to take action. I am deeply grateful to Daikin. Practical Lessons Raise Daikin Employees' Aw areness In addition to lessons taught by the school teachers, Daikin employees lead classes on request by the schools. The Daikin instructors apply for this job in-house and undergo training. Since the instructors are not environmental specialists but rather employees from marketing, production, and other departments, these teaching duties give them a chance to think about how their own jobs relate to the environment. Daikin's next aim is to make an even more valuable program based on comments gathered from school teachers, students, and the Daikin instructors to help both children and employees raise awareness and take action. What Our Stakeholders Are Saying Through Teaching, We Learn Tsutomu Yunoki Osaka Service Station West Japan Service Department, After Sales Service Division I taught the children that it is important to be motivated about the many things that they can do close to home to help protect the environment. I was extremely pleased when the children commented that it is important to care for the Earth. This program raised my own environmental awareness as well, and now in my daily work the environment has become a one of the central topics. 61 Key Activities Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2011 −Web version− Environment Overview of Environmental Impact 63 Compliance with J-Moss 123 Towards an Environmentally Advanced Company 65 Management of Chemical Substances 126 Results for the Environmental Action Plan 2010 68 Reducing Waste and Water 128 Environmental Action Targets and Achievements 72 Environmental Management 132 Low-Impact Products 75 Environmental Management System 134 Daikin Eco-Products 78 Environmental Audits 138 Promoting the Use of Inverter Products 85 Environmental Risk Management 139 Promoting the Use of Heat-Pump Type Space Environmental Accounting 142 and Hot Water Heaters 86 Environmental Education 145 Products That Help Customers Save Energy 88 Environmental Communication 147 Environmentally Conscious Fluorochemical Products 95 Environmental Forums and Exhibits 148 Low-Impact Refrigerants 97 Environmental Education 3R & Repair 100 and Awareness Activities 150 Low-Impact Production 105 Protecting Biodiversity 152 Preventing Global Warming Protecting Biodiversity 153 — Production, Transportation 108 Biodiversity Awareness 157 Recovering and Destroying Fluorocarbons History of Environmental Activities 158 from Customers' Air Conditioners 115 Green Procurement 119 62 Environment Reducing CO2 and Fluorocarbon Emissions is a Top Priority The Daikin Group focuses on reducing both fluorocarbon emissions generated during product manufacture and electricity used during air conditioner use, the major contributors to global warming. Likewise, we strive to reduce environmental impact through the recovery and destruction of fluorocarbons during the processes of production, maintenance, and product disposal. In product development, we are shifting to refrigerant alternatives that do not deplete the ozone layer as we continue to work toward lessening the impact our business has on the environment. 63 Environment 64 Environment Achieving both environmental protection and economic growth will make Daikin Group a sustainable corporate group. We will realize this through the following three actions. Providing the World with Products That Help Customers Reduce CO2 Emissions An air conditioner's life cycle shows that actual product use represents the greatest amount of energy use. We help customers reduce CO2 emissions with our energy-efficient products. Baseline Scenario of CO2 Emissions from Product Use Promote the use of inverter products offering Reduce CO2 emissions by promoting both comfort and energy efficiency the use of heat-pump type heating systems Offer energy-saving solutions Develop future refrigerants Air Conditioning Network Service System II VRV using CO2 refrigerant (Germany) 65 Environment Key Activities Feature 1: The Quest for Next-Generation Refrigerants (Page 42) Key Activities Feature 2: Solutions for Curbing Global Warming (Page 48) Low-Impact Products (Page 75) Reducing Greenhouse Gas Emissions from Production Greenhouse gas emissions from production processes represent a major impact of Daikin's business activities on the environment. We aim to reduce fiscal 2010 greenhouse gas emissions from production processes to just half of 2005 levels (to less than 1.4 million tons). Reduction in the Entire Group Greenhouse Gas Emissions Reduce CO2 emissions Improve production from production efficiency Low-Impact Production (Page 105) Expanding a Green Heart * The first step towards passing the abundance of nature on to future generations comes from cultivating a love of nature and putting this love into action. 66 Environment We widely promote a Green Heart to communities and to future generations through contributions that meet the needs of each country and region. * Green Heart : think of the Earth and take care of the environment. Expanding a Green Heart Reforestation and Environmental education tree-planting Reforestation project (Indonesia) Environmental education (China) Environmental Communication (Page 147) Protecting Biodiversity (Page 152) Responsibility to Communities (Environmental Contributions to Society) (Page 225) Reference Honors for Daikin (Page 32) Endorsement as an Eco First Company (http://www.daikin.com/csr/eco.html) 67 Environment Under the five-year FUSION 10 strategic management plan, which targeted fiscal 2010, the Daikin Group strove to develop and promote the use of environmentally conscious products and services on a basic policy of actively contributing to solving global environmental problems and expanding our business. Our environmental measures were conducted under our Environmental Action Plan 2010. For details, see Environmental Action Targets and Achievements (Page 72) 1. Reducing Environmental Impact from Products Promote and Expand the Use of Environmentally Conscious Products to Meet the Particular Needs of Each World Region We have developed and provided air conditioner products and services that meet the environmental needs of each world region in terms of weather, culture, and economy. Fifteen-Fold Increase in Heat-Pump*1 Hot Water and Space Heating We have successfully promoted the use of the Daikin Altherma hot water and space heating system, in the process contributing to the reduction of 210,000 tons of CO2 emissions. Proliferation Results *1 Heat pump: A method for performing space heating and water heating by extracting and transferring thermal energy stored in the air (or water). Promoting the Use of Heat-Pump Type Space and Hot Water Heaters (Page 86) Promoting the Use of Affordable Inverter*2 Products The spread in use of inverter air conditioners reduced CO2 emissions by 650,000 tons when compared with the energy efficiency of non-inverter models prevalent in the volume zone market. 68 Environment Proliferation Results *2 Inverter: Inverters are frequency conversion devices that enable the minute control of room temperature and thus reduce power consumption. Promoting the Use of Inverter Products (Page 85) A New Approach to Energy Efficiency Daikin has worked to raise the energy efficiency of equipment and spread the use of new energy-efficiency services. Proliferation Results Development Results Establishment of Applied Development Center Signals Start of Full-Scale EnergyEfficient Product Development The Applied Development Center was established in fiscal 2009 to accelerate development of energy-efficient products. Development Results *3 IPLV: Integrated part load value. A measure of annual performance under conditions of actual use. The higher the value, the better the performance. 69 Environment Promote the Use of Environmentally Conscious Products, Particularly in Rapidly Growing Developing Countries Daikin will continue to provide air conditioning products and services that meet the environmental needs of each world region. Particularly in developing countries, which are growing fast but where increasing environmental impact is a problem, Daikin will provide products and technologies that contribute to economic progress yet still protect the environment. Low-Impact Products (Page 75) 2. Reducing Environmental Impact during Production (1) Management to Reduce Impact Daikin Group's Global Integrated Management Moving Ahead Daikin has been building and gradually implementing environmental management systems around the world. Currently 90% of all Daikin employees, including those in the OYL Group, which joined the Daikin Group in 2006, belong to facilities that have obtained ISO 14001 certification. Managing the Setting and Progress of Environmental Targets for the Entire Daikin Group Including OYL We will implement environmental management systems based on ISO 14001 at all worldwide production sites. We will monitor Group-wide progress towards this target, sharing information worldwide and stepping up activities. Environmental Management (Page 132) (2) Impact Reduction Results 73% Reduction Against Fiscal 2005, Exceeding Target In the Chemicals Division, we have done everything possible to recover and destroy fluorocarbons. As a result, we exceeded our target by reducing CO2 emissions during production by 73% against fiscal 2005. 70 Environment Reduce Emissions in Fiscal 2015 to One-Third of Fiscal 2005 Levels Although Daikin business will expand in the coming five years, through energy efficiency measures and the recovery and destruction of fluorocarbons, we aim to reduce CO2 emissions in fiscal 2015 to just one-third of fiscal 2005 levels. Low-Impact Production (Page 105) 3. Expansion of Green Heart Efforts Dramatic Expansion of Environmental Protection Activities in Which Group Employees Can Participate Conduct Environmental Activities Geared to Local Characteristics Daikin will conduct activities geared to the characteristics and needs of worldwide bases and regions, in the process instilling people with a concern for nature that will carry on into future generations. Environmental Communication (Page 147) 71 Environment Overview of Fiscal 2006-2010 Major Reduction of Greenhouse Gases during Production During the five years starting in fiscal 2006, we built a global management system that includes ISO 14001 certification of major production sites. To reduce the environmental impact of products, we achieved expanded sales of products with lower impact, such as energy-efficient air conditioners and heat-pump type space heaters, in more countries, and we continued to improve green procurement at overseas production bases. To reduce environmental impact during production, we strove to reduce fluorocarbon emissions in production processes and cut energy-induced CO2 emissions through improved production efficiency. As a result, we reduced CO2 emissions by 73% over fiscal 2005. In addition, we carried out environmental protection activities geared to the needs of each worldwide region and we were able to raise the environmental awareness of our employees. Environmental Action Plan 2010*1 We have evaluated the results of FY2010 environmental conservation activities and expressed the achievement of each activity relative to our targets in three grades: Outstanding Achievement Good Achievement Needs Improvement Results/Achievements in SelfItem Objectives/Viewpoint Target for FY2010 FY2010 evaluation Establish an Environmental Management System (EMS) at all Environmental Have all production group bases (including Certification completed at Management bases certified for non-production bases) and have all all production bases. System ISO 14001. group members operate under this Environmental EMS. management Have all employees Improve knowledge of aware and taking All group employees in Shared environmental issues among all action on their Japan took an annual awareness group members. responsibilities to e-learning course. society. 72 Environment Results/Achievements in SelfItem Objectives/Viewpoint Target for FY2010 FY2010 evaluation Published annual Recognizing that accurate Group report. and impartial disclosure of Published annual information is a Provide more information CSR Report in Information responsibility of corporate and a wider range of PR Europe, China, and provision citizens, Daikin will gain the activities. ASEAN. trust of customers and Published Environmental society. information on communication website. Conducted activities in Community different regions. Carry out environmental and Carry out activities on a Example: Tree planting activities that help environmental regular basis. by employees (Thailand), communities and society. contributions environmental lessons in schools (China, Japan) Reduce environmental Make products achieving Daikin impact from products by the new voluntary Eco-Products Eco-products accounted making more environmental standards (Air for 96% of all products. environmentally conscious account for at least 50% of conditioners) products. products sold in Japan. Have at least a 95% green Japan 99% Increase procurement from procurement suppliers offering products rate. Green manufactured with China: 89%, Thailand: Product efforts procurement consideration for the Raise the green 97%, Other countries in (Air environment. Overseas procurement Asia and Oceania: 85%, conditioning rate. Europe: 82%, North equipment) America: 45% Recover at Prevent further depletion of least*2 90% of Recovered 94% from the ozone layer and work to refrigerants from used products. prevent global warming by Japan Recovery and used products Recovered 89% from encouraging the recovery of and products products under repair. destruction of refrigerants on the market under repair. refrigerants and reducing refrigerant emissions from active and Build system for Installed recovery used products. Overseas recovering equipment at all service refrigerants. stations. 73 Environment Results/Achievements SelfItem Objectives/Viewpoint Target for FY2010 in FY2010 evaluation Factories in Japan Green Heart Raise environmental Make factories in Japan expected to obtain Factory performance of plants. Green Heart Factories. Green Heart certification. Reduction of Reduce greenhouse gas Reduce greenhouse gas greenhouse emissions at plants for the emissions by 50% against 73% reduction gas emissions entire Group. fiscal 2005. Reduce CO2 emissions per Japan sales by 15% 34% reduction Reduce the energy compared to Reduction in fiscal 2000. consumption of the entire energy Daikin Group and decrease Reduce CO2 consumption emissions of CO2. emissions per Overseas sales by 10% 9% reduction compared to fiscal 2005. Maintain and Production Reduce waste from every improve zero Maintained a 99.5% Japan efforts production base by waste recycling rate. promoting recycling and achievements. Waste emissions reuse, by eliminating Improve the disposal (zero waste recycling rate Seven of 20 companies emissions), and by landfill Overseas (according to achieved zero and incineration. targets in each emissions. region). Reduce emissions of hazardous substances Japan (PRTR 87% reduction Promote management of substances) by chemicals according to 70% against fiscal Chemicals 2005. Daikin's guidelines for the management management of chemical Control the substances. amount of hazardous Control carried out on a Overseas substances regular basis. released and handled. Increase the proportion of Increased sales of Greater sales of energy efficient air Increase sales of energyinverter products in products that conditioners to reduce CO2 efficient products. China. Sales contribute to reduced emissions resulting from Increase sales of Increased sales of environmental impact the operation of air heat-pump type heaters. heat-pump type conditioners. heaters in Europe. Reduce CO2 Reduction in CO2 Reduce CO2 emissions by emissions per Logistics emissions resulting promoting efficiency in Japan sales by 13% 13.5% reduction from transportation transportation. compared to fiscal 2005. *1 Excluding the OYL Group. *2 Based on Daikin standards. 74 Environment The Daikin Group is developing products with minimal environmental impact by raising energy efficiency, switching to refrigerants with the least possible burden on the environment, and making products easier to recycle. We are also striving to reduce the impact that chemicals have on human health and the environment. Daikin Eco-Products 96% of Products Satisfy Strict Voluntary Standards for Daikin Eco-Products (See page 78) We assess products starting from the planning and design stages to Environmentally Conscious Design through ensure that they are energy efficient and recyclable. Product Assessment Product Assessment Items We have in-house standards for assessment criteria and products that Daikin Eco Products as Percentage of achieve these standards are named Daikin Eco-Products. These All Products Eco-Products account for an increasingly higher percentage of the Voluntary Environmental Standards for products we sell. Daikin Products (established 2001, revised 2007) Improving Energy Efficiency of Air Conditioners Sample of LCA: Comparison of Life Cycle CO2 Emissions(energy-induced CO2) Electricity Consumption and Energy Consumption Efficiency (residential air conditioners) Electricity Consumption and Energy Consumption Efficiency (commercial air conditioners) Daikin Eco-Products Promoting the Use of Inverter Products 2009 Joint Venture with Major Chinese Manufacturer to Tap World Inverter Product (See page 85) Market Inverter Technology The Daikin Group aims to provide more highly energy efficient inverter air Promoting the Use of Inverter Products conditioners worldwide and thus reduce the amount of CO2 emissions Inverter Air Conditioners as Percentage from energy consumption during product use. of all Room Air Conditioners in China 75 Environment Promoting the Use of Heat-Pump Type Space and Hot Water Heaters Promoting Heat-Pump Products in Space and Hot Water Heating Market (See page 86) The Daikin Group is developing space and hot water heaters using highly Heat Pump Systems for Space Heating energy efficient heat-pump technology. In heat-pump technology for air and Water Heaters conditioning, heat is drawn from the air and transferred for use as cooling Promoting the Use of Heat-Pump Type or heating. Compared to space or water heating methods that burn fossil Space and Hot Water Heaters fuels directly, it produces less than one-half the CO2. Features of the MEGA-Q Comparison of Annual CO2 Emissions: MEGA-Q Large-Scale Commercial Heat Pump Water Heating System versus Combustion-Type Boiler Products That Help Customers Save Energy Daikin Helps Customers Reduce CO2 Emissions with Air Conditioners, Chemicals, and Oil (See page 88) Hydraulic Products Air Conditioning Products Room air conditioners, large commercial air conditioners, fluorochemical Air Conditioning Network Service System products, and oil hydraulic products-Daikin develops environmentally II conscious products so it can offer complete packages for helping VRV Energy-Saving Tuning customers reduce their overall CO2 emissions. DESICA Commercial Air Conditioning System Freezing, Refrigeration and Air-Conditioning Heat Recovery System Products Compliant with EU's ErP Directive Fluorochemical Products ZEFFLE Infrared Reflective Coating DAI-EL Fluoro TPV Oil Hydraulic Equipment Energy-Efficient Hybrid Hydraulic Super Unit AKZ9 Series Oil Cooling Unit Hybrid Construction Machinery 76 Environment Environmentally Conscious Fluorochemical Products The Unique Characteristics of Fluorine are Applied in Fields Such as Fuel Cells and Solar (See page 95) Cells Fluorochemical Products That Contribute Fluorine mainly bonds with carbon atoms to become compounds that are to Environmental Protection highly stable and have useful functions such as the ability to resist heat Environmental Solutions Pioneered with and repel chemicals. Fluorochemical Products Cross-section of three-layer fuel hose Daikin uses the unique characteristics of fluorine to bring consumers a using fluoroelastomer range of products that help protect the environment. Reducing PFOA Emissions Low-Impact Refrigerants Daikin is developing refrigerants that do not deplete the ozone layer and that have low global (See page 97) warming potential. Protecting the Ozone Layer We can offer the most adequate refrigerant for each case, we are Switching to HFC Refrigerants Around conducting R&D that will achieve practical use of everything from natural the World refrigerants to HFC fluorocarbons, which have a relatively low global Low-Impact Refrigerants warming potential. Daikin's Stance on the Environmental Impacts of Refrigerants See Key Activities of Fiscal 2010: The Quest for Next-Generation Refrigerants (Page 42) 3R & Repair Designing Products that are Easy to Dismantle and Separate: Recycling Used Air Conditioners (See page 100) The Daikin Group strives to use resources as effectively as possible by 3R & Repair carrying out the 3Rs—reducing, reusing, and recycling—along with 3R & Repair: Approach repairing under its 3R & Repair initiative. 3R & Repair: Effective Use of Resources We develop products that are smaller and lighter, and that use materials and designs that are easy to separate and recycle. Recycling Reducing Amount of Packaging per Product (wood, cardboard, styrofoam, etc.) Reusing Repair Daikin Service Network Recycling Residential Air Conditioners Recycling of Residential Air Conditioners in FY2010 (Japan) 77 Environment Environmentally Conscious Design through Product Assessment Only Products that Pass 14 Assessment Items Make it to Market Besides factors like performance and ease of use, the Daikin Group stresses environmental performance in product development. We strive to raise this environmental performance by incorporating product assessment in the planning and design stages for new products. Product assessment consists of 14 assessment items that we strictly adhere to in developing products. We also assess global warming impact of air conditioners using the LCA (life cycle assessment) method, which allows us to determine the environmental impact at each stage of a product's life cycle. Product Assessment Items 1. Weight reduction of products 8. Packaging 2. Use of recycled materials and parts 9. Safety 3. Raise possibility of reuse of 10. Environmental conservation resources capabilities 4. Product life extension 11. Energy and resource conservation 5. Ease of collecting/transporting in use 6. Ease of disassembly and separation 12. Disclosure of information of materials by hand 13. Reduction in environmental impact 7. Ease of shredding/classifying for in the manufacturing process recycling 14. LCA For details on product assessment items, see the following website.(Page 82) Products that Pass Voluntary Environmental Standards Designated as Daikin Eco-Products We have voluntary environmental standards for assessment criteria with an especially large environmental impact, and we assess scores on the environmental impact of residential products and their packaging. Products that score 80 points or more are designated as Eco-Products, a category that accounts for an increasing percentage of our offerings: 92% in fiscal 2007. In fiscal 2007, Eco-Products accounted for 92% of our products. That same year, to make products with even higher environmental performance, we revised our voluntary environmental standards by tightening criteria for global warming impact. In fiscal 2010, 96% of our products achieved this strict new standard for Eco-Products. 78 Environment Daikin Eco Products as Percentage of All Products Note: We revised our voluntary environmental standards in fiscal 2008. Voluntary Environmental Standards for Daikin Products (established 2001, revised 2007) Products that score 80 points or more are designated as Eco-Products points Has added value in the form of energyand resource-saving functions. 5 Consumes less energy during product use. 25 Global warming prevention Consumes less energy in standby mode. 7 During disassembly, no environmentally harmful substances leak and the 1 product poses no danger to humans. Products are of reduced weight and size. 4 Less refrigerant (HFC) is used; or refrigerant has a low global warming 5 impact. Product itself Structure and assembly allow for easily disassembly by hand. 8 Resource savings Greater percentage of total product can be recycled. 5 Uses easy-to-recycle plastic. 5 Uses recycled plastic. 5 Product has greater durability. 2 Fewer hazardous Contains no hazardous substances. 15 substances Contains no PVC. 2 LCA Environmental impact in the product life cycle can be decreased. 5 Resource savings Packaging is lighter, smaller, and simpler. 4 Packaging Fewer hazardous There are no substances harmful to human health, and there are no 2 substances substances that hinder efforts to properly treat and recycle materials. total 100 79 Environment Improving Energy Efficiency of Air Conditioners Improving Energy Efficiency to Achieve Fiscal 2010 Standards In the life cycle of an air conditioner, from design and manufacture to use and disposal, the majority of the CO2 that is emitted occurs during product use: over 90% in fact. That is why when we revised our voluntary environmental standards in fiscal 2007, we tightened our criteria for energy efficiency in the product use stage in order to improve the energy efficiency of products. Sample of LCA: Comparison*1 of Life Cycle CO2 Emissions(energy-induced CO2) More than 90% of the CO2 emissions (energy-induced CO2) during the life cycle of an air conditioner come during product use. That's why we put the majority of our efforts into making products more energy efficient. *1 Based on Daikin standards for 14-kW class commercial air conditioners and 2.8-kW class residential air conditioners. *2 The seasonal power consumption is calculated in accordance with: The standard of the Japan Refrigeration and Air Conditioning Industries Association for commercial air conditioners. The Japanese Industrial Standards for residential air conditioners. Electricity Consumption and Energy Consumption Efficiency (residential air conditioners)*1 *1 Calculated for Daikin 2.8-kW class air conditioners. Under JIS conditions. *2 For products with prescribed measurements 80 Environment Electricity Consumption and Energy Consumption Efficiency (commercial air conditioners)* * Calculated for Daikin 14.0-kW class air conditioners. Under conditions of the Japan Refrigeration and Air Conditioning Industry Association. In 2006, the Law Concerning the Rational Use of Energy was partially revised: residential air conditioners of 4.0 kW or smaller now have to achieve not only the COP standard values, but also APF standard values with fiscal 2010 as the target year. * COP APF: COP (coefficient of performance): The value of kW of cooling or heating capacity generated per 1 kW of power consumption. Calculated as follows: Cooling or heating capacity (kW) divided by electricity consumption (kW). APF (annual performance factor): The ratio of the total heat quantity (Wh) required to cool and heat a room during both the cooling and heating period to the total power consumption (Wh) during the same period. This allows calculation of an efficiency figure that more closely approximates the figure during actual use. Daikin Eco-ZEAS 80 Achieves Industry's Top APF The Eco-ZEAS 80 energy-efficient inverter air conditioner was the first product in the industry to achieve the 2015 APF standard values under the Rationalization in Energy Use Law. It has sold briskly since its release in May 2010. We proceeded to improve the energy efficiency through measures including making the heat exchanger and compressor more efficient, and as a result we achieved the industry's top APF. A new version was released in April 2011. This improved APF can result in annual CO2 emission reductions of up to 80%*. * Daikin calculations. Comparison of new product (with automatic filter cleaning function) and Daikin RYJ80F (released 15 years ago). 81 Environment Daikin Eco-Products Ururu Sarara Daikin's Ururu Sarara residential air conditioner includes energy-efficient functions like a swing compressor and slick fin heat exchanger, allowing users to save up to 50% of seasonal power consumption compared to 11 years ago. Product Assessment Items Assessment item Assessment standard 1-1 Weight reduction of product Has product weight been reduced? 1-2 Weight reduction of main Have main materials and parts been reduced, or been used in materials and parts improved yield? 01. Weight reduction of products 1-3 Weight reduction of scarce Have fewer scarce materials been used? materials 1-4 Reduction of refrigerants, use Has less refrigerant (HFC) been used, or has refrigerant with low of natural refrigerants GWP been used? 2-1 Use of recycled plastics Have recycled plastics been used? 02. Use of recycled materials 2-2 Labelling use of recycled Have parts been labelled as using recycled plastics? and parts plastics 2-3 Use of recycled parts Have reused parts been used, and are these of standard quality? 3-1 Raise recycling ratio Has the overall possible recycling ratio of the product been raised? 03. Raise possibility of reuse of resources 3-2 Raise possibility of use of Have easy-to-recycle plastics been used? plastics 4-1 Improve durability of products Are products more durable? 4-2 Improve durability of parts and Have durable parts and materials been used? materials 4-3 Improve ease of parts Does construction allow for easy consumables replacement, and is replacement information provided on how to replace consumables? 04. Product life extension Have parts requiring maintenance and repair been clearly 4-4 Make it easier to maintain and indicated? repair Are parts common across products? Does construction allow for easy maintenance and repair? Has information been provided to end users and repair outlets 4-5 Tell customers how to get on how to get longer use out of products? longer use out of products Have repair outlets been provided with information on repair diagnosis and repair measures, and safety? Have items been loaded evenly and balanced, and can 5-1 Make work of collecting and collection and transport take place safely? 05. Ease of transporting easier For heavy, bulky items, are handles and wheels properly collecting/transporting positioned? 5-2 More efficient loading when Is it easy to improve loading efficiency, and is there no danger of collecting and transporting items falling off? 82 Environment Assessment item Assessment standard 6-1 Make it easier to Does construction allow for easy removal of items to be disassemble and separate items disassembled and separated by hand? by hand Are construction and assembly such that disassembly by hand is easy? Are there fewHas compound material been reduced? screws 6-2 Make disassembly easier that need to be removed during disassembly by hand? 06. Ease of disassembly and Has information been provided that makes disassembly separation of materials by hand easy? 6-3 Reduce compound materials Has compound material been reduced? 6-4 Use common materials Have common materials been used across products? across products 6-5 Label types of materials to Have plastic parts been properly labelled as such? make separation easier Is shredding with a shredder easy? Can products and parts fit into a shredder? 7-1 Make shredding easier Has there been a check to ensure that there are no 07. Ease of shredding/classifying substances that may damage or dirty the equipment or the for recycling materials that will be reused? Are there any foreign materials containing similar 7-2 Make classifying easier properties? Have common materials been used across products? Has packaging weight been reduced, and packaging 8-1 Reduce weight of simplified? packaging, simplify packaging Is used packaging compact, or is it easy to take apart, collect, and transport? Has the use of compound materials been reduced? Is it easy to separate each type of material in compound 8-2 Make it possible to recycle materials? more packaging Have common materials been used across products? 08. Packaging Has packaging reuse been considered? 8-3 Reduce or eliminate Has there been a check to ensure that there are no substances hazardous or poisonous used that are harmful to human health, or that will hinder proper packaging materials processing or recycling? 8-4 Use recycled packaging Has recycled packaging material been used? materials 8-5 Have labelling identifying Does labelling identify packaging materials according to laws? packaging materials 9-1 Improve safety in the Is the production process safe? production process 9-2 Improve safety in Is transportation safe? distribution 9-3 Improve safety during 09. Safety Is it safe to use the product? product use 9-4 Improve safety during Is product servicing safe? servicing 9-5 Improve safety during Is it safe to recycle the product? recycling Is it safe to disassemble and separate the product by hand? 83 Environment Assessment item Assessment standard 10-1 Ensure compliance with legal Are amounts of environmentally harmful substances within legal restrictions on environmentally limits? harmful substances Are products free of prohibited substances on the list of designated chemical substances in the Green Procurement 10-2 Remove environmentally harmful Guidelines (4th edition)? substances from products Prohibited substances are (1) previous prohibited substances, F gas from foaming agents, (2) RoHS substances. 10-3 Reduce PVC Has the amount of PVC been reduced? Has it been ensured that during disassembly, environmentally harmful substances will not leak or will not pose a danger to workers? Has it been ensured that the recycling facilities will not be 10-4 Ensure environmental protection harmed in any way by the recycling process? 10. Environmental conservation during recycling and disposal Have substances that may cause environmental impact capabilities during recycling or afterwards been reduced to the minimum? Is it easy to remove parts containing environmentally harmful substances? Have users been given important information at time of purchasing? Have users and repair persons been informed of important points to keep in mind during product use, repair, and movement? Does the user manual and other documents give users 10-5 Provide information to persons important points to keep in mind when disposing of at all stages of the life cycle product? Can retailers, or those transporting, installing, or collecting products easily know important points to keep in mind during product collection and transport? Are important points to keep in mind written on the product itself for those recycling and disposing of the product? 11-1 Include energy and resource Are there energy and resource saving functions? saving functions 11-2 Improve energy efficiency Has the product been made more energy efficient during use? 11. Energy and resource during use conservation in use 11-3 Reduce energy consumption in Has the product been made more energy efficient in standby? standby mode 11-4 Reduce amount of product Has the amount of consumables been reduced? consumables 12-1 Label product, parts, user Is labelling of product, parts, user manual, and packaging in manual, packaging, etc. line with labelling guidelines? 12. Disclosure of information Are there sufficient documents (treatment manuals) with 12-2 Provide information on recycling information on safety during processing so as to promote and waste treatment recycling and environmental protection? 13. Reduction in environmental 13-1 Reduce emissions from Has the amount of by-products (emissions from manufacturing) impact in the manufacturing manufacturing been reduced? process 14-1 Determine the environmental Has environmental impact been determined for the material, impact at each lifecycle stage production, transport, use, and disposal stages? 14. LCA 14-2 Consider how to reduce environmental impact during the Is it possible to reduce environmental impact? lifecycle 84 Environment Inverter Technology Can Reduce Power Consumption by Approx. 30% Inverters are frequency conversion devices What is Inverter Technology? that control electrical voltage, current, and frequency. Since inverter technology enables the minute control of room temperature, air conditioners equipped with inverters can reduce annual power consumption by approximately 30% compared to non-inverter models (Daikin estimate for residential air conditioners). Promoting the Use of Inverter Products Manufacturing Low-Cost Inverter Products in China to Sell Worldwide The Daikin Group aims to provide more highly energy efficient inverter air conditioners worldwide and thus reduce the amount of CO2 emissions from energy consumption during product use. The motor rotation in an inverter type air conditioner is variably controlled, which reduces energy use by about 30% compared to non-inverter models. While most air conditioners in Japan today are inverter models, most in use outside Japan are non-inverter models. Making inverter air conditioners more affordable is Inverter Air Conditioners as Percentage of all Room Air key to achieving their widespread use. To this end, Conditioners in China in March 2009, Daikin Industries and major Chinese air conditioner manufacturer Gree Electric Appliances, Inc of Zhuhai established two joint venture companies to manufacture key components and molds for highly efficient, low-cost inverter air conditioners. The joint ventures have fused Gree's strength in production and procurement of raw materials and parts with Daikin's expertise in energy-efficiency technology to jointly develop low-cost air conditioners. Data released by research companies in China Manufacture of these products began in October 2009 and Daikin's aim is to tap markets where inverter products still have low market penetration. 85 Environment Heat Pump Systems for Space Heating and Water Heaters Less than Half the CO2 Emissions Compared to Burning Fossil Fuels In the heat-pump method used in air conditioners and other products, thermal energy stored in the air or water is extracted and transferred to perform cooling and heating. Compared to carrying out space and water heating using methods in which fossil fuels such as gas, oil, and coal are directly burned, heat pump systems emit less than half the CO2. The Heat Pump Mechanism Promoting the Use of Heat-Pump Type Space and Hot Water Heaters Bringing More CO2-Reducing Heat-Pump Type Space and Hot Water Heaters to the European Market The Daikin Group is developing space and hot water heaters using energy-efficient heat pump technology. This technology, which is also used for air conditioning, involves drawing heat from the air and transferring it for use in cooling and heating. Compared to space or water heating methods that burn fossil fuels directly, it produces approximately one-third the CO2. The EU has set a target of having renewable energy such as wind and solar power account for 20% of the energy mix by 2020. In January 2009, heat pumps were recognized in the EU as technology that captures renewable energy and heat pump heaters are being recommended as part of this target. In 2006, the Daikin Group began selling a heat-pump type hot water heaters and heating system in Europe and we have been expanding the product lineup since then. With the opportunity provided by EU energy policy, Daikin will work to spread the use of heat pump products throughout the continent. Increasing Sales in the Commercial Market for Products Including the MEGA-Q Large-Scale Heat Pump Hot Water System The Daikin Group is developing space and hot water heaters for the commercial market as well using highly energy efficient heat-pump technology. 86 Environment In Japan, the Eco-Cute heat pump hot water heater is becoming more prevalent. And in April 2009, we released a commercial heat pump water heating system (MEGA-Q) for large-scale facilities such as hotels and hospitals that can supply up to 120 tons of hot water a day while attaining about a 50% reduction in CO2 emissions compared to combustion-type water heaters. It also allows running cost reductions of approximately 60%. As well, we are working to spread the use of the Danzen Heat system for commercial facilities. We are contributing to energy efficiency by replacing combustion type water heaters with heat pump models. Features of the MEGA-Q Latest energy-efficient technology enables dramatic reductions in CO2 emissions and water-heating costs compared to combustion-type water heaters. With the ability to supply up to 120 tons of hot water a day per system, it is deal for large-scale facilities such as hotels, hospitals, and public care institutions. Because it gets it heat from a number of sources, there is minimized risk of hot water supply stoppage due to breakdowns and inspections. As well, with two compressors to one heat source, one compressor can break down but the other can still supply 50% of capacity. Because the heat source and heat exchange pump are compact, they require less space for installation than any competing product. With the (separately sold) operation data monitoring software installed in a computer and running in unison with the hot water system controller, customers can use their hot water use as a basis for storing just the right amount of hot water. This saves customers energy and money. Comparison of Annual CO2 Emissions: MEGA-Q Large-Scale Commercial Heat Pump Water Heating System versus Combustion-Type Boiler 87 Environment Air Conditioning Products Daikin Installs Power-Saving Control Center for Commercial Air Conditioner With Japan facing the danger of an electricity shortage during the summer due to the effects of the March 2011 Great East Japan Earthquake, the government set a target of reducing electricity by 15% across the board in homes and the private sector. In April, Daikin installed a power-saving control center for commercial air conditioners in the jurisdiction of Tokyo Electric Power Company (TEPCO). There are currently about 30 different measures for helping commercial air conditioners save power, with approximately 200 dedicated staff visiting customer sites to offer one or more power-saving measures (fee-based service). The power-saving measures are a collection of those that had previously been offered by various Daikin divisions. From cleaning filters on interior units, to measures during operation—such as monitoring by customers, or remote monitoring by Daikin, to ensure energy-efficient control—a variety of measures can add up to energy savings between 20 and 30%. And these measures cover air conditioners of other manufacturers, not just of Daikin. There are approximately 900,000 commercial air conditioners just in the jurisdiction of TEPCO (based on number of exterior units). If all of these were to adopt energy-saving measures, it would save between 500,000 and 1 million kW, the equivalent of the capacity of one nuclear reactor. In June, we also set up a power-saving control center as our West Japan base in the jurisdiction of Kansai Electric Power Company (KEPCO), thus allowing us to offering energy-saving measures across the country. Example of power-saving service Air Conditioning Network Service System II (Remote monitoring and energy-efficient control system using network) Demand control (Set electricity so it does not exceed a pre-set amount) Ene-Cut (Sprinkle water on interior unit to save energy) ZEFFLE reflective coating (Eases burden on air conditioning) Air Conditioning Network Service System II Remotely Monitors Building Air Conditioning and Suggests Ways to Improve Energy Efficiency Air conditioning accounts for about 40% of the energy consumed by commercial buildings in Japan. Daikin strives to bring more energy-efficient air conditioners to market. But we also know that how these air conditioners are used can greatly affect the amount of energy consumed. That's why we offer the Air Conditioning Network Service System II to remotely support energy-efficient air conditioner operation. This service started out as a maintenance function to monitor air conditioner operation in order to prevent malfunctions or breakdowns before they occur. But to add more value, we came up with a remote energy-saving tuning function, which keeps air conditioners at the most energy-efficient operation level by monitoring product use and weather conditions. This service was recognized for energy savings of up to 20% and reduction of CO2 emissions and in December 2008 was awarded the Minister of the Environment Prize in the 5th Eco-Product Awards in Japan. 88 Environment In March 2009, we added an energy saving improvement support function to the Air Conditioning Network Service System II. Using an online screen showing daily operational data of the air conditioning system in a customer's building, Daikin monitors operation in each room for four criteria that help avoid wasted energy: that rooms are not overheated or overcooled, that lights are turned off, that filters are properly cleaned, and that electricity use is not exceeding targets. Daikin then makes suggestions based on these. Daikin Begins Service to Boost Energy Efficiency of Existing Building Air Conditioners VRV Energy-Saving Tuning The Revised Rationalization in Energy Use Law went into effect in April 2010 in Japan, obligating smalland medium-size companies to report energy use and set non-binding targets for energy-saving measures. In response, in September 2010 we initiated our VRV Energy-Saving Tuning service, which helps customers who have purchased Daikin building air conditioners we have been selling since before 2006 save energy. Customers don't need to purchase another air conditioner and tuning takes only a short time. And annual savings are up to 20%. Customers have praised this service, which keeps on saving energy for several years until customers upgrade to a new air conditioner. Also as part of our total energy support, we have ENE-FOCUS, a system that allows companies with multiple buildings to efficiently manage their energy use and report to the government authorities in accordance with the Rationalization in Energy Use Law. Carbon Credits for Customer CO2 Reductions Under an emissions trading system (Domestic Clean Development Mechanism*1) among companies in Japan, Daikin's Program-type (carbon credits are converted as needed) emission reduction project*2, the first of its kind in the commercial air conditioner field, was approved by the Domestic Credit Certification Committee of the Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry, the Ministry of the Environment, and the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Fisheries. Previously, small-scale Daikin customers could not take part in emission reduction projects. But under Daikin's program-type project, when customers install a store or office air conditioner (such as Sky Air), they can join the Daikin D-irect Club when they start Daikin D-irect service, a system for remote monitoring of air conditioning to save energy. So even smalland medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) capable of only small CO2 emission reductions can join an emission trading scheme. The credits generated are acquired for free by Daikin, which sells them to, for example, large corporations, and the profit from the sale is used for environmental protection activities such as reforestation, thus helping the CSR activities of member companies. *1 Domestic Clean Development Mechanism: Certifies the greenhouse gas emissions reductions implemented by small and medium enterprises using technology and capital provided by large enterprises. With this, smalland medium-size companies (SMEs) (companies with no voluntary action plan) can incorporate ways to reduce CO2 emissions, and large corporations (those with their own action plan) can buy the CO2 reductions from the SMEs as emission credits. *2 Program-type emission reduction project: Emission reductions are gathered from small companies and are converted to credits when they are needed. 89 Environment Daikin D-irect Club Companies that cannot participate in the Domestic Clean Development Mechanism (domestic emission reduction certification system) gather and put together their CO2 emission reduction activities to create emission credits that go toward protecting the environment. It's easy to take part in the Domestic Clean Development Mechanism: all an SME has to do is install new air conditioning or upgrade existing air conditioning in small buildings. This means they can do much more to help the environment. The Daikin D-irect Club's emission reductions project was created as part of the Domestic CDM Promotion Support Project in Kansai Region operated by the Kansai Bureau of Economy, Trade and Industry (METI Kansai). Daikin Helps Tokyo University Build System Showing Actual Flow of Energy Daikin Industries is taking part in the Green University of Tokyo Project. In May 2010, from a remote location Daikin Industries created a visual representation of the energy being used in campus buildings. Based on this, we determined how to make operation more energy efficient and together with Ubiteq, Inc. we developed a system for proving a CO2 reduction model. By integrating the building facilities network, including air conditioning, into an information network, it is possible to create a centralized information system that ties together building facilities and office equipment. Using this information, it is possible to determine where energy is being wasted inside the building, and to establish a system to help save energy. The goal is to establish a model case that will result in a method for reducing CO2 emissions from small buildings. DESICA Commercial Air Conditioning System Daikin Receives Award of Technology, 47th Society of Heating, Air-Conditioning, and Sanitary Engineers of Japan Awards Conventional air conditioning systems use a single The DESICA Commercial Air Conditioning System unit for controlling both temperature and humidity. This makes it difficult to achieve the ideal balance of both, and it also wastes energy. But in the DESICA system, temperature and humidity are controlled by two separate units, thus achieving both energy efficiency and room comfort. It is about 20% more energy efficient than conventional systems. It was these benefits that earned the DESICA system the Award of Technology at the 47th Society of Heating, Air-Conditioning, and Sanitary Engineers of Japan Awards. 90 Environment Freezing, Refrigeration and Air-Conditioning Heat Recovery System Daikin Receives Energy Conservation Center Chairman's Prize, 2009 Energy Conservation Awards The Freezing, Refrigeration and Air-Conditioning Heat Recovery System for use in convenience stores and supermarkets is an integrated refrigeration, heating, and cooling system that is controlled by just one outdoor unit. Not only does it save space, but it also recovers heat from the freezing and cooling processes to heat the building interior. This leads to big energy savings: This system can save about 56% on annual energy consumption over conventional systems. 2009 Energy Conservation For its heat recovery technology and widespread use in convenience stores across Japan, Awards Director General Prize of Agency of Natural the system won the 2009 Energy Conservation Awards. Resources and Energy Daikin Develops Products Compliant with EU's ErP Directive The ErP Directive sets eco-design requirements for energy-using products (since July 2005) and energy-related products (since November 2009). In 2013, it will include energy efficiency regulation values for air conditioning equipment up to 12 kW, meaning that products Daikin sells in Europe in future will have to comply with the ErP Directive. Daikin has developed Seasonal Smart, commercial air conditioners for offices and retailers that satisfy the ErP Directive values. We released these in 2011, ahead of the start of the ErP regulation values in 2013. In addition there are building-related regulations such as the European Energy Performance of Buildings Directive (EPBD Directive) that we are working to meet through our energy-efficient technologies. European Net Zero Energy Project Begins Daikin Europe N.V. has begun the European Net Zero Energy Project, an experimental cooperative project between industry and academia. As a first step, in July 2010, Daikin Europe, in cooperation with Zeller Group, a wholesaler of Daikin Airconditioning Germany, constructed a Net Zero Energy Office in northwest Germany (Herten) that features photovoltaic solar power generation and energysaving Daikin products. The project received the Deutsche Kältepreis, an annual award for energy-efficient, future-oriented refrigeration and air-conditioning technology given by the German Ministry for the Environment, Nature Conservancy and Nuclear Reactor Safety (BMU). See Key Activities of Fiscal 2010: Solutions for Curbing Global Warming (Page 48) 91 Environment Fluorochemical Products An Easy to Install Air Conditioner : ZEFFLE Infrared Reflective Coating Eases Air Conditioning Burden Daikin developed ZEFFLE infrared reflective coating, a fluororesin-based paint that reflects the sun's infrared rays off building roofs. Compared to conventional paints, ZEFFLE reduces building roof surface temperature by as much as 15-20°C, thus keeping inside temperature down. It also reduces power consumption by approximately 15% to make a major contribution to saving energy in the summer. ZEFFLE could almost be called a easy-to-install air conditioner. Used in combination with an energy-efficient air conditioner, ZEFFLE can help reduce electricity consumption. Besides the roof and outer walls of a building, ZEFFLE is effective in blocking heat and preventing weathering in other ways. For example, by applying it to water storage tanks such as those holding drinking water, it prevents the temperature from rising, thus maintaining sanitation. On water and ice storage tanks, it maintains the cooling effect and saves energy. As well, it is being used increasingly on the top deck of marine vessels to keep cargo space from heating up, and to prevent deterioration due to salt water and ultraviolet rays. ZEFFLE Infrared Reflective Coating Energy Award, 2009 Lloyd's List Global Awards Fluoride Materials That Reduce Automobile Fuel Transpiration into the Atmosphere DAI-EL Fluoro TPV Increasingly tighter restrictions are being placed on the transpiration into the atmosphere of VOCs (volatile organic compounds) contained in gasoline, which are one of the causes of air pollution from automobiles. Daikin's fluorochemicals are resistant to heat and chemical penetration, and when used to make automobile fuel hoses and tubes can reduce the permeation of automobile fuel. Daikin's newly developed DAI-EL Fluoro TPV can reduce the permeation of automobile fuel to about one-twentieth compared to our previous fluoroelastomers. This is turn reduces transpiration into the atmosphere. Fuel hose (inner layer is DAI-EL Fluoro TPV; outer layer is nitrile rubber) 92 Environment Oil Hydraulic Equipment Energy-Efficient Hybrid Hydraulic Super Unit Energy Savings and Lower CO2 Emissions in Factories Daikin also leads the industry in making energy-efficient hydraulic units for factory production lines. The energy-efficient hybrid hydraulic Super Unit employs the same motor inverter technology that is used in Daikin's energy-efficient air conditioners. The Super Unit determines the load on the machine, depending on whether it is in standby, operation, or pressure holding mode, and electronically controls the pump at the necessary RPM. The result is energy savings of more than 50% in pressure holding mode (compared to Daikin piston pumps). For use on presses, molding equipment, and inspection devices, the Super Unit contributes to energy savings and lower CO2 emissions. The Super Unit is widely used on molding equipment around the world and is popular for its superior precision and energy efficiency. In January 2011, we established Daikin Device (Suzhou) Co., Ltd., an oil hydraulics sales company, to expand sales in this field. Electricity Consumption of Super Unit and Conventional Hydraulic Unit AKZ9 Series Oil Cooling Unit Energy Efficiency, and One of Few Industrial Products Compliant with RoHS Directive Industrial machinery gives off significant heat during operation. Eliminating this heat is crucial to a machines precision. Daikin's oil cooling unit attaches to industrial machinery to cool the machinery's oil. The AKZ Series, released in 2010, is advanced industrial machinery that is certified for the EU's RoHS Directive. It is also 30% more energy efficient than previous products, and it uses HFC410, a refrigerant that has minimal environmental impact. Customers choose the AKZ9 for its high precision and superior environmental performance. AKZ439 oil cooling unit 93 Environment Daikin's Motor Inverter Saves 40% on Fuel in Hybrid Construction Machinery Just as in the automobile industry, the field of construction machinery is moving towards hybrid motors. Backhoes have begun employing hybrid drive systems of engines and motors and Daikin provides the key parts for these systems. In a hybrid backhoe, when the shovel circles around the chassis, the energy from this movement is stored in a battery, and this energy is supplied via the generating motor to assist the engine. This allows engines to be smaller and more fuel efficient. Daikin makes the rotating motor, which creates the rotating energy stored in the battery, the generating motor, which generates energy and assists the engine, and the controller for these. 94 Environment Fluorochemical Products That Contribute to Environmental Protection Contributing to Environmental Protection in a Range of Areas Fluorine mainly bonds with carbon atoms to Environmental Solutions Pioneered with Fluorochemical Products become compounds that are highly stable and have useful functions such as the ability to resist heat and repel chemicals. Daikin uses the unique characteristics of fluorine to bring consumers a range of products that help protect the environment. Fluoride Materials Reduce Permeation of Gasoline Fluororesins and fluoroelastomers, which are used to make Cross-section of three-layer fuel hose using automobile fuel hoses, prevent leaking of VOCs (volatile organic fluoroelastomer compounds) and keep the permeation of gasoline at a low level even while the car engine is hot. Daikin's newly developed DAI-EL Fluoro TPV can reduce the permeation of automobile fuel to about one-twentieth compared to our previous fluoroelastomers. ZEFFLE Infrared Reflective Coating Eases Air Conditioning Burden Applying Daikin's ZEFFLE infrared reflective coating to building roofs reflects the sun's infrared rays and keeps inside temperature down: this eases the burden on air conditioning. And by reducing the electricity used for air conditioning, it also contributes to preventing global warming. For details, see Fluorochemical Products (Products That Help Customers Save Energy). (Page 92) 95 Environment Contributing to the Energy Field Including Fuel Cells Fluoropolymers are chemical resistant, heat resistant, and weather resistant, qualities that make them ideal for use as material in cutting-edge energy technologies such as fuel cells, lithium ion batteries, and solar cells. For example, the fluororesin (ETFE) used for the surface protection film on solar cells has high light transmittance and lasts for more than 20 years under the sunlight. ZEFFLE is used for the rear surface film to contribute to a long service life for the solar cells. Fluoride materials contribute to reduced environmental impact in a range of other applications as well. FEP fluororesins have superb flame resistance, which allows them to replace metal pipelines as covering for LAN wiring and thus save resources; and PTFE fluororesins prevent air pollution and save resources when used as highly efficient, long-lasting dust-collecting bag filters in incinerators and power stations. Reducing PFOA Emissions Gradually Reducing Emissions Towards Total Elimination by 2012 Daikin has set a target of totally eliminating its use of Perfluorooctanoic Acid (PFOA), a fluorochemical compound concerned to have environmental effects, by the end of 2012. Daikin uses PFOA as a polymerization aid for some fluororesins and fluoroelastomers that are used in a wide range of fields including semiconductors, information and telecommunication, automotive, and aerospace. As well, minute quantities of PFOA are given off as a by-product in the production process of fluorochemical products that are applied to the surface of clothing and carpets to repel water and oil. While stable, it does not readily degrade in the environment, and if it is ingested by living organisms, it may remain for relatively long periods in the body. Therefore, in 2006 the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency announced the creation of the 2010/15 PFOA Stewardship Program. Daikin and seven other of the world's leading fluorochemical manufacturers are participating in this program. As a result of an in-house reduction program, Daikin is gradually switching to substitutes. Besides reducing PFOA emissions, we are switching to polymerization aids as substitutes, and switching to products that do not give off PFOA as a by-product during production. As of the end of fiscal 2010, we have reduced our PFOA use by 95%. Switching to a Polymerization Aid with Low Environmental Impact As part of our efforts to achieve our reduction target, in 2008 we began switching to a polymerization aid with a lower environmental impact than PFOA. By the end of 2012 we will have switched to substitutes in all products where PFOA is used. Developing Products That Don't Give Off PFOA in the Production Process We developed waterand oil-repellent products (repellents) that effectively give off no PFOA during their production process and began selling these in 2007. By the end of 2012, all of the repellent products that we produce will give off no PFOA during their production. Unidyne water and oil repellent 96 Environment Protecting the Ozone Layer Switching to Substitute Refrigerants and Recovering Fluorocarbons Refrigerant is used to transport heat between the interior and exterior units of an air conditioner. HCFC used to be the major refrigerant used, but in the 1980s experts suspected it was depleting the ozone layer, so under the Montreal Protocol developed nations agreed to completely phase out its production in developed countries by 2020. Daikin has for years worked to prevent ozone layer destruction by developing substitute refrigerants that do not deplete the ozone layer. In 1991 we began the first mass-production in Japan of HFC, a refrigerant with an ozone depletion potential of zero, and in 1995, we began selling air conditioners that use HFC as the refrigerant. Besides switching to HFC refrigerants, we have also been working to ensure that there is no leakage into the atmosphere: we design and develop products that are easy to recover refrigerant and prevent its leakage, and we recover refrigerant during the manufacturing stage and product repair. In April 2002, we began a fluorocarbon recovery and destruction business in which we recover and properly dispose of refrigerants from used air conditioners. For details, see Key Activities of Fiscal 2010: The Quest for Next-Generation Refrigerants. (Page 42) Switching to Refrigerants with Zero Ozone Depletion Potential outside Japan The Daikin Group is phasing out conventional HCFC refrigerants and switching to HFC, a refrigerant with an ozone depletion potential of zero. Daikin sells only products using HFC in Japan and Europe. We were also the first company in China to offer HFC VRV, and we currently provide HFC residential air conditioners as well. In Southeast Asia and other countries where HCFC air conditioners are the norm, we are offering HFC models (where possible given current infrastructure) and promoting their benefits. Switching to HFC Refrigerants Around the World Japan The majority of air conditioners sold use HFC refrigerant Europe We sell only products using HFC Australia We sell products using HFC U.S. We sell products using HFC China We sell HFC VRV systems Other parts of Asia, rest of world We sell HFC VRV systems Low-Impact Refrigerants Research into a Wide Range of Next-Generation Refrigerants Although HFC has an ozone depletion potential of zero, it contributes to global warming if released into the atmosphere. 97 Environment The Daikin Group is conducting research aimed at achieving practical use of refrigerants that contribute less to global warming than HFC, currently the most widely used refrigerant. Our research focuses not only on the direct effect of the refrigerant but also on the global warming impact throughout the entire lifecycle, including its energy efficiency during air conditioner use. We are also making decisions based on all contributing factors: besides the environmental impact of refrigerants themselves, we look at safety factors like combustibility and toxicity, the cost of the refrigerant, and the cost of producing air conditioners that use the refrigerant. Different characteristics are required of residential and large commercial air conditioners. The same goes for water/space heating equipment and freezing/refrigeration equipment. It is therefore important to choose the refrigerant that is right for the particular application. So that we can offer the most adequate refrigerant for each case, we are conducting R&D that will achieve practical use of everything from natural refrigerants to HFC fluorocarbons, which have a relatively low global warming potential. We are also providing opportunities for dialog at international conferences and trade shows in efforts to provide the public with information on the global warming impact of refrigerants and on what can be done to prevent this. For details, see Key Activities of Fiscal 2010: The Quest for Next-Generation Refrigerants. (Page 42) Daikin Develops World's First VRV Using CO2 Refrigerant In October 2008 at an exhibition in Germany, Daikin caused a sensation when it introduced the world's first VRV using CO2 refrigerant. The VRV also received high praise at exhibitions that followed in Spain and France. But because CO2 refrigerant has a lower energy efficiency than HFC refrigerant, we are continuing to develop technologies to raise the energy efficiency. We are continuing to search for other low global warming potential refrigerants besides natural refrigerants including CO2, as well as develop air conditioners that can use them. Starting in fiscal 2009, we began such research and development under a project by NEDO (New Energy and Industrial Technology Development Organization) in Japan VRV using CO2 refrigerant (Germany) Daikin's Stance on the Environmental Impacts of Refrigerants ( Benefits Problems) Refrigerants ODP GWP*1 Atmospheric life(years) Flammability Toxicity Conventional HCFC22 0.055 1,500 12 Nonflammable Low refrigerants HFC134a 0 1,300 14 Nonflammable Low Current refrigerants HFC410A 0 1,725 Nonflammable Low HFC32 0 650 4.9 Slightly flammable Low HFO1234yf*2 0 4 11days Slightly flammable Low CO2 Future refrigerants (carbon 0 1 120 Nonflammable Low Natural dioxide) refrigerants Ammonia 0 0 0 Slightly flammable Strong Propane 0 3 10 Highly flammable Low 98 Environment Refrigerants Refrigerant characteristics Daikin's stance Production to be completely Conventional HCFC22 phased out in developed refrigerants countries by 2020 All of the major models completed refrigerant Currently in the process of switchover from HCFC to HFC HFC134a Current refrigerants replacing HCFC with this HFC410A substitute Has a low global warming HFC32 potential for an HFC Slightly flammable Seen as a possible refrigerant in the future Has a low global warming HFO1234yf*2 potential; can be used as a substitute for HFC134a Put into commercial production as refrigerants CO2 Has low energy efficiency for for hot water supply units, for which Future refrigerants (carbon air conditioning systems performance is equivalent to that of dioxide) conventional refrigerants Natural Used for large refrigeration and air conditioning An efficient refrigerant, but refrigerants Ammonia systems where strict control is possible, such toxic and slightly flammable as factories An efficient refrigerant, but Technical development is needed to adopt as Propane highly flammable and thus refrigerant for air conditioners in order to susceptible to explosion ensure safety *1 Source: IPCC Second Assessment Report, other documents *2 Reference value ( HFO1234yf was not reported in the IPCC Second Assessment Report) 99 Environment 3R & Repair Stressing Effective Use of Resources in Design The Daikin Group strives to use resources as effectively as possible by carrying out the 3Rs-reducing, reusing, and recycling-along with repairing under its 3R & Repair initiative. This initiative plays a key role in our product design and development. Based on product assessment, we design and develop products that are smaller and lighter, and that use materials and construction that make them easy to maintain, separate, and recycle. Environmentally Conscious Design through Product Assessment (Page 78) 3R & Repair: Approach Reduce Make products smaller and lighter, Use recycled materials Reuse Use parts from end-of-life products Design products that are easy to separate and recycle Use plastics that are easy to recycle Development Recycle Indicate the materials used Construct products that are easy to disassemble After use Recycle end-of-life products Development Design products that are easy to maintain Repair After disposal Have a repair support system that contributes to long-lasting products 3R & Repair: Effective Use of Resources 100 Environment Recycling Designing Products for Easy Disassembly Product design stresses 3R & Repair based on product assessment. Since 1997, we have designed products so that their construction makes them easy to disassemble. Reducing Maker Smaller and Lighter Products that are Still Energy Efficient Making products smaller and lighter means they will use fewer resources. When making air conditioners, we set weight reduction targets for both the entire product and its components. However, it is technically difficult to achieve this without sacrificing energy efficiency. If making it smaller and lighter means that it consumes more energy, then the product's environmental performance throughout the entire lifecycle has not yet been improved. When the Daikin Group develops new products, we establish weight reduction targets for each product on the condition that the energy efficiency (COP) does not decrease. Product Packaging Weight Reduced by 6% Since 2005 We set a target of reducing the amount of packaging for air conditioning products by 6% in fiscal 2010 compared to fiscal 2005. In fiscal 2010, our distribution and design divisions worked together to make products stronger and develop a new structure for packaging to reduce the amount of packaging. (For details, see Topics below.) We achieved our goal of a 6% reduction compared to fiscal 2005. We will continue working to reduce packaging weight through measures including using new materials and devising better methods of package assembly. Amount of Packaging per Product (wood, cardboard, styrofoam, etc.) 101 Environment Make Products Stronger to Reduce Packaging Material by Approximately 13% Conventionally, apart from the Styrofoam material four pillars were used in the packaging to protect the product from being crushed during storage. But by making the product itself stronger so that it can withstand external force, we eliminated the need for the pillars in the packaging and thus reduced packaging by approximately 13%. The number of parts also decreased from 18 to 10. Layer of Air in Packaging Gives Shock-Absorbing Effect and Reduces Packaging Material by Approximately 35% We came up with a new packaging shape in which the way the cardboard is folded creates a layer of air that absorbs impact. This reduced packaging weight by approximately 35% and made the assembly process shorter. 102 Environment Increase Number of Products that Use Returnable Containers In the Service Division, conventional wooden containers used to ship service parts overseas are gradually being replaced by returnable steel containers that can be used repeatedly. In fiscal 2007, we began using these in Europe, and Thailand started the following year. Currently about 60% of products being shipped used these returnable containers, and this has saved us about 330 tons of wood. In the Distribution Division, the import and transport of compressors and other distributed parts uses returnable palettes, and in the near future Europe and China bases will switch to returnable packaging. Reusing Repair and Reusing Parts that have Already Been Replaced In the Daikin Group, we try to use resources efficiently. We take parts that have already been replaced and that contain multiple components, such as printed circuit boards, and we repair any malfunctions or replace the worn-out components. These parts (the printed circuit board, for example) are then tested for quality by ensuring that they are functioning properly and, with the customer's permission, are used as replacement parts when performing repair on a product. Repair Reinforcing the Global Repair System Making products that last longer means that fewer resources are used. To this end, the Daikin Group is strengthening its repair system by establishing service outlets around the world to take customer repair requests and questions and enquiries regarding products. In Japan, the Daikin Contact Center is open 24 hours a day, every day of the year to take inquiries, while 55 service outlets across the nation carry out product repair and maintenance. We will continue to strive for even greater customer satisfaction by improving the technical expertise and etiquette of our service engineers. With Daikin picking up the pace of its overseas expansion in recent years, it is crucial that we strengthen our service network in each country. We have added service bases in countries like Spain, Singapore, and Italy through the integration of the service system of O.Y.L. Industries Bhd, which Daikin acquired in 2006. In North America and China, Daikin is working with O.Y.L company McQuay International to exchange employees and utilize networks so as to improve the service system. 103 Environment Daikin Service Network Recycling Residential Air Conditioners Daikin Achieves Recycling Ratio of 84%, Well above Obligations under Home Appliance Recycling Law The Home Appliance Recycling Law obligates manufacturers to recycle at least 70% of the material from their own air conditioners as well as recover and then reuse or destroy refrigerants. In fiscal 2010, the start of the eco-point system in Japan led to an increase in consumers making purchases to replace their old products. It also led to an increase in the amount of used residential air conditioners we recovered: 250,000 products totaling 8,648 tons, more than the previous year. The recycling ratio was 84% and the amount of refrigerants recovered was 145 tons. In April 2011, we reduced the recycling fee to encourage more people to recycle their used products. Recycling of Residential Air Conditioners in FY2010 (Japan) 104 Environment The Daikin Group strives to reduce environmental impact during production (including procurement and transportation). Besides making it a priority to reduce emissions of greenhouse gases during production, we do all we can to manage and reduce emissions of chemicals and reduce waste. We are also working to achieve targets that our manufacturing bases around the world have set for recovering and destroying fluorocarbon refrigerants during production process and during maintenance or final disposal of air conditioners. Preventing Global Warming — Production, Transportation Reduced Emissions to Half of Fiscal 2005 Levels Ahead of Schedule: Fiscal 2010 Emissions Down 73% Against Fiscal 2005 The Chemicals Division and machinery divisions of the Daikin Group emit during production four kinds of fluorocarbons (HFC, PFC, CFC, and (See page 108) HCFC) that are greenhouse gases. We therefore make it a top priority to reduce fluorocarbons by preventing their leakage during production Reducing Overall Group Greenhouse Gas Emissions processes and by recovering and properly destroying them. Greenhouse Gas Emissions for the We also reduce CO2 emissions during production and transportation by Entire Group (during production) introducing energy-efficient technologies and raising transportation Daikin Joins Japan's Voluntary Emissions efficiency. Trading Scheme Reducing Fluorocarbon Emissions HFC and PFC Emissions and Global Warming Impact CFC and HCFC Emissions and Global Warming Impact Inspecting for Refrigerant Leaks in the Air Conditioner Manufacturing Process Reducing Energy-Induced CO2 Total CO2 Emissions, CO2 Emissions per Sales Reducing CO2 Emissions during Transportation CO2 Emissions per Sales from Transportation (air-conditioning) Green Heart Factories Saving Energy at Overseas Bases 105 Environment Recovering and Destroying Fluorocarbons from Customers' Air Conditioners Proper Recovery of Refrigerants during Air Conditioner Disposal and Repair Prevents Release into the Atmosphere To protect the ozone layer and help curb global warming, it is crucial that we prevent release of air conditioner refrigerants (fluorocarbons) into the (See page 115) atmosphere. The Daikin Group has a system for recovering and treating refrigerants so that they are not released into the atmosphere during the Recovery and Destruction of Fluorocarbons from Customers' Air maintenance, upgrading, or disposal of air conditioners. Conditioners Daikin strives to prevent refrigerant emissions post-sales. We have a Efforts to Prevent Environmental Burden from CFC Emissions fluorocarbon recovery and destruction business in which we take requests from customers for refrigerant recovery. Recovery and Destruction of Refrigerants Efforts in Japan Unified Management System of Refrigerant Recovery and Destruction Recovered Fluorocarbons (at time of repair and at time of disposal) Types of Fluorocarbons Recovered during Maintenance (Japan) Recycling System for Commercial Use Air Conditioners Efforts Overseas Green Procurement Picking Up the Pace of Overseas Green Procurement: 97% in Thailand, 89% in China, 82% in Europe, and 85% in Oceania Whenever possible, the Daikin Group purchases only green parts and materials from suppliers and throughout the entire supply chain. (See page 119) Since fiscal 2000, we have been urging our suppliers to comply with our Green Procurement Green Procurement Guidelines in order to conduct their business in an Green Procurement Rate (Japan) environmentally conscious manner. Green Procurement Rate (%) by Region (Japan, overseas) *Green procurement rate: The percentage of our suppliers that have scored at least 82% on the green procurement survey. Overview of Green Procurement Guidelines, 5th Edition Compliance with Restrictions on Toxic Chemicals Specified Chemical Substance List (for products) 106 Environment Compliance with J-Moss For Daikin room air conditioners, we report which of the six substances covered by J-Moss (the marking of presence of the specific chemical (See page 123) substances for electrical and electronic equipment) are contained in our products. Compliance with J-Moss Substances Contained in Room Air Conditioners Management of Chemical Substances Goal to Reduce PRTR Substances in Japan to Half of Fiscal 2005 Achieved in Fiscal 2007, Ahead of Schedule The Daikin Group has voluntary restrictions that its uses to strictly manage the chemical substances used in production processes in the (See page 126) Chemicals Division. We set a goal of reducing emissions of PRTR (Pollutant Release and Transfer Registry) substances by 50% in fiscal Management of Chemical Substances 2010 compared to fiscal 2005. We achieved this goal as of 2007. Emissions of PRTR Substances (Japan) Compilation of PRTR Substances in FY2010 (PRTR substances of which at least 1 ton was handled) Reducing Waste and Water Daikin Companies in Japan Achieve Zero Waste for General Waste. Eight Overseas Companies Achieve Zero Waste All Daikin Group manufacturing bases in Japan have achieved zero waste for both industrial and general waste. (See page 128) We are working to recycle waste and achieve zero waste throughout the Reducing Waste entire Daikin Group worldwide: overseas, eight manufacturing Amount Disposed of and Amount subsidiaries including Daikin Fluorochemicals (China) have achieved Recycled (Japan) zero waste. Amount Disposed of and Amount Recycled (Overseas) Recycling Efforts Using Water Resources 107 Environment Reducing Overall Group Greenhouse Gas Emissions Daikin Drastically Reduces Greenhouse Gas Emissions through the Recovery and Proper Destruction of Fluorocarbons The Daikin Group emits two kinds of greenhouse gases: CO2 from energy use, and fluorocarbons handled in the production processes. In 2001, the first year we began full-scale efforts to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, we made it a top priority to reduce emissions of fluorocarbons, which accounted for over 90% of all Group greenhouse gas emissions. We have worked to recover and properly destroy fluorocarbon gases that are a by-product of production processes of fluorochemical products and which account for more than 85% of our fluorocarbon emissions. As a result, fiscal 2005 greenhouse gas emissions during production were just one-third the level of the base year. Fiscal 2010 Emissions Down 73% from Fiscal 2005 One of the key environmental targets of the fiscal 2005 FUSION 10 strategic management plan that was set in fiscal 2005 was to reduce fiscal 2010 greenhouse gas emissions to half of fiscal 2005 levels. As a result of efforts towards this target, overall Group greenhouse gas emissions in fiscal 2010 were 750,000 tons-CO2, down by 73% over fiscal 2005. Greenhouse Gas Emissions for the Entire Group (during production) Success in meeting Japan's 6% reduction target The Daikin Group in Japan emitted 290,000 tons-CO2 of gases designated by the Kyoto Protocol (CO2, HFC, and PFC) in fiscal 2010, a reduction of 97% compared to the 10.33 million tons-CO2 emitted in the base year of the Kyoto Protocol (FY1990 for CO2, FY1995 for HFC and PFC). Success in reducing gases not designated by the Kyoto Protocol Although CFC and HCFC are not indicated by the Kyoto Protocol as targeted gases, the Daikin Group is working to reduce these emissions. In fiscal 2010, emissions of these two gases were 470,000 tons-CO2. 108 Environment Daikin Joins Japan's Voluntary Emissions Trading Scheme In 2008, Daikin Industries participated in the Japanese government's Voluntary Emissions Trading Scheme. Under this scheme, participating companies commit to a certain reduction amount in their CO2 emissions. The scheme also allows them to trade CO2 emission quotas to meet their reduction targets. Daikin Industries first committed to targets (reduction in CO2 emissions per sales against fiscal 1990: 56% in fiscal 2008, 59% in fiscal 2009, and 59% in fiscal 2010) at its air conditioner plants (Shiga Plant, Sakai Plant) greater than the industry target (35% reduction in CO2 emissions per sales against fiscal 1990). Actual CO2 emission reductions in fiscal 2010 were 65%. In fiscal 2010, the Chemicals Division (Yodogawa Plant, Kashima Plant, Soka Office) in Japan took part in the same scheme. Daikin committed to targets (26% reduction in CO2 emissions per sales against fiscal 1990) greater than the target set by the Japan Chemical Industry Association (20% reduction in CO2 emissions per sales against fiscal 1990). Actual CO2 emission reductions were 30%. Kyoto Protocol An international agreement under which developed countries are obligated to reduce overall greenhouse gases by at least 5% compared to 1990 between 2008 and 2012. It was passed in 1997 at the 3rd Session of the Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change in Kyoto. Greenhouse gases designated by the Kyoto Protocol are CO2, methane, N2O, and three CFC alternatives (HFC, PFC, and SF6). Major developed nations are obligated to reduce greenhouse gas emissions: Japan by 6%, the United States by 7% (although the United States has not ratified the Kyoto Protocol), and the EU by 8%. In March 2008, Japan's Cabinet approved a revised plan for targets that includes additional measures to improve the energy efficiency in the residential and construction sectors. The government is also aiming to achieve Japan's targets through revision of the Law Concerning the Promotion of the Measures to Cope with Global Warming. Reducing Fluorocarbon Emissions Greenhouse Gases HFC and PFC Reduced by 89% in Fiscal 2010 Against 2005 There are four kinds of fluorocarbons generated HFC and PFC Emissions and Global Warming Impact during Daikin's production processes: HFC and PFC, which are covered by the Kyoto Protocol, and CFC and HCFC, which are not. We have set reduction targets for each of these fluorocarbons. Fiscal 2010 emissions of the HFC and PFC covered by the Kyoto Protocol were 65 tons (270,000 tons CO2 equivalent), an 89% reduction over fiscal 2005. Fiscal 2010 emissions of CFC and HCFC were 1 ton and 300 tons respectively, a 64% decrease over fiscal 2005. 109 Environment CFC and HCFC Emissions and Global Warming Impact Fluorocarbon Recovery Equipment Ensures Proper Destruction of Refrigerants (Chemicals Division) The fluorocarbons emitted in the Chemicals Division are raw materials and by-products in the production of fluorochemical products. To prevent such emissions, we have been installing recovery equipment on production lines and properly destroying the fluorocarbon gases recovered. We also take the fluorite generated during the destruction process and use it as raw material for the production of fluorochemical products. Establishing Facilities at Worldwide Bases for the Recovery and Destruction of Fluorocarbons in Production Processes To reduce fluorocarbon emissions, the Chemicals Division has been establishing facilities since fiscal 2001 for the proper recovery and destruction of fluorocarbons during manufacturing processes. In fiscal 2009, we built new recovery facilities at the Yodogawa and Kashima plants, and in fiscal 2010 we upgraded destruction facilities (special incinerator) at the Yodogawa Plant to ensure stable operation. In countries in which we operate that have no fluorocarbon emission restrictions, we voluntarily recover gas and either destroy it at our factories or outsource destruction. In December 2008, fluorocarbon destruction facilities that we built in Daikin Thailand were certified by the government and this site can now destroy fluorocarbons recovered at other group companies in Thailand. Ensuring No Leaks When Filling Air Conditioners with Refrigerant (Machinery Divisions) During the air conditioner manufacturing process, we do everything possible to ensure no refrigerants (HFC, HCFC) leak during filling. These measures include the following: We inspect all pipes for leakage before refrigerant filling. If operation inspections show that a product must be fixed, we do so after recovering all the refrigerant from it. We take every precaution possible during refrigerant filling to ensure there are no leaks. Recovering refrigerant 110 Environment All this and other related work is done by certified technicians according to maintenance manual procedures. Technicians also undergo training every year based on the manual. Switching from HCFC to Helium Gas in the Inspection Process To prevent refrigerant gas from leaking from air conditioners, all products are inspected for air-tightness during manufacturing using inspection gas. For this inspection gas, the Daikin Group has gradually been switching from HCFC to helium, which does not deplete the ozone layer and is not a greenhouse gas. This means that even if a product is defective and leaks gas during inspection it will not harm the environment. In the machinery divisions of the Daikin Group, where air conditioners are made, we have switched from HCFC to helium gas for inspections at 20 manufacturing bases around the world. With the switch to helium gas at the Sakai Plant in 2009, all Daikin plants in Japan no longer use HCFC as inspection gas. Overseas, before the end of 2010, we phased out the use of HCFC at plants in Belgium, Thailand, and Shanghai and thus completed our switch to helium for inspection gas at worldwide production bases. Inspecting for Refrigerant Leaks in the Air Conditioner Manufacturing Process Daikin Industries carries out three inspections for refrigerant leaks during the residential air conditioner production process. This gives customers highly reliable products and prevents refrigerant emissions due to product defects. 1. Air-tightness and pressure resistance 2. Gas leak inspection 3. Pre-delivery inspection inspection After ensuring there are no leaks, When the product is completed and Before we insert refrigerant, we pump air at refrigerant is sealed inside and a packed, a refrigerant detector is once an extremely high pressure of 4.2 MPa to refrigerant detector is used to inspect all again used to ensure no refrigerant has check for leaks at the welded sections, pipes, brazed parts. leaked. and other parts refrigerant passes through. Reducing Energy-Induced CO2 Rise in CO2 Emissions per Sales Due to Increasing Production Volume and Exchange Rate Effects In fiscal 2010, we made it a top priority to raise productivity and reduce energy loss. We reduced lead time to a minimum and boosted production efficiency in the air conditioner production process amidst increasing air conditioner demand due to a hotter-than-usual summer and Japan's eco-point system. In the Chemicals Division as well, the Production Innovation Project boosted efficiency and thus reduced energy loss. 111 Environment However, with increasing production volume due to economic recovery, energy-induced CO2 was up by 73,000 tons over fiscal 2009. Due to the high Japanese yen, the yen-equivalent sales overseas were down, and CO2 emissions per sales were 6% higher than in fiscal 2009. We will do everything possible to eliminate energy waste and introduce renewable energy and LED lighting. Total CO2 Emissions, CO2 Emissions per Sales CO2 emissions per sales The amount of CO2 emitted by net sales. The lower this figure, the less CO2 a company emits per unit of production and thus the more efficiently that company can make products. Reducing Energy Use by the Accumulation of Small Efforts Daikin employees do every little thing possible in their daily work to contribute to energy-efficient operation. At the Sakai Plant, unnecessary lights are turned off and conveyor belts are only run when needed. As well, employees turn off office lights during lunch hour and shut down computers when they are away from their desks. We also have energy efficiency patrols going through factories to ensure that no energy is being wasted. Dedicated Employees Monitor Electricity to Prevent Unnecessary Operation At the Sakai Plant, specific employees in charge of monitoring the operation of equipment wear name tags. To make this system easy to remember and clear to everyone, Daikin named it SEE, which stands for Safety Environment Eco. Report by Business Site (http://www.daikin.com/csr/environment/site_data/index.html) Reducing CO2 Emissions during Transportation Increasing Direct Shipment Decreases CO2 Emissions by 13.5% Over Fiscal 2005 Daikin Industries set a goal of decreasing CO2 emissions (per sales) from transportation by 13% in fiscal 2010 compared to fiscal 2005, and efforts to this end have focused on switching from trucks to trains and ferries. 112 Environment Since fiscal 2008, efforts have included direct CO2 Emissions per Sales from Transportation (air-conditioning) delivery from factory to customer and direct shipping from overseas production sites to Japan to ensure the shortest possible transportation route. The result was a 13.5% decrease in CO2 emissions per sales over fiscal 2005 in the transport of air conditioning products. Reducing Other Environmental Impact during Transportation At manufacturing bases in Japan, we have replaced gasoline-powered forklifts for logistics with electric models. We are changing the layout of warehouses so that forklifts will drive shorter distances (and thus be driven less). We are introducing more natural-gas-powered and other low-pollution vehicles for company cars. As of fiscal 2009 there were 11 natural gas vehicles. All vehicles driving at manufacturing bases turn off their engines when not moving to reduce exhaust fumes. Daikin Receives First Eco-Rail Mark Certification for Air Conditioning Products In November 2010, Daikin Industries and five Daikin air conditioning products were certified for the Eco-Rail Mark from the Ministry of Land, Infrastructure, Transport and Tourism. This is the first time an air conditioning product has been certified for this system, which certifies products that travel solely on land or, if not, at least 500 kilometers on land and 30 percent or more of the goods are carried on railways. Eco-Rail Mark Daikin will continue shifting more products to railway shipping. Green Heart Factories Three Plants and Daikin Sunrise Settsu Designated as Green Heart Factories Daikin Industries strives to make its plants more environmentally conscious through an in-house certification system called Green Heart Factories. Those that score at least 85 points out of 100 on five criteria including reduction of greenhouse gas emissions are designated as Green Heart Factories. As of March 2011, Daikin Industries' plants (Shiga, Sakai, Yodogawa) and Daikin Sunrise Settsu have been designated as Green Heart Factories. Green Heart Factory certificate 113 Environment Saving Energy at Overseas Bases Daikin Australia Wins ARBS 2010 HVAC Excellence Award The Daikin Australia head office was introduced at the April 2010 ARBS HVAC exhibition, where it was awarded the ARBS 2010 HVAC Excellence Award for its environmental performance. The new office building adopts an innovative environmental design that achieves a 5 Star NABERS (National Australian Built Environment Rating System) rating. The award also At the ARBS 2010 HVAC recognizes the building for its Daikin VRV Heat Recovery System, which precisely monitors awards ceremony energy use and maintains the optimal indoor environment. LEED® Gold Certification for Daikin-McQuay Applied Development Center in the United States In December 2010, the Daikin-McQuay Applied Development Center in Minnesota earned LEED® Gold certification from the U.S. Green Building Council for its energy efficiency and green design. The facility was highly rated for a green design that includes major facilities equipped with an inverter air conditioning system, test equipment using heat recovery technology, and energyAt the awards ceremony efficient lighting. More than 90% of the center's energy is used for development testing (cooling and heating water, etc.), and 75% of this energy is recovered and reused to make the facility energy efficient. For details, see Key Activities of Fiscal 2010: Solutions for Curbing Global Warming. (Page 48) Daikin Takes Part in Government Energy-Reduction Project Daikin Europe N.V. is participating in an energy-reduction project being carried out by the government of Flanders, Belgium. Between 2009 and 2013, based on an in-house energy-reduction plan, the company is striving to reduce its energy use through measures including converting equipment to inverters and recovering heat from test equipment. Using Renewable Energy in Thailand Daikin Thailand, a major plant in Southeast Asia, uses renewable energy, such as hydropower that utilizes the in-house cooling water, and wind and solar power, to provide electricity for equipment such as outdoor lighting. Wind power built by employees Hydropower utilizing cooling water from the plant 114 Environment Recovery and Destruction of Fluorocarbons from Customers' Air Conditioners Thorough Recovery during Production, Maintenance, and Upgrading The fluorocarbons used as refrigerants in air conditioners have a global warming impact that is approximately 2,000 times more than that of CO2. As an air conditioner manufacturer, Daikin has taken responsibility to prevent fluorocarbons from entering the atmosphere. We are also conducting research and development into refrigerants with a low global warming potential and preventing the release of refrigerants into the atmosphere during production and post-sales. At all worldwide production bases, we recover and destroy refrigerants placed in air conditioners during testing and other processes. We also have destruction facilities in Japan and Thailand. During maintenance and upgrading of customers' air conditioners, the service or installation staff always start by thoroughly recovering the refrigerant. Efforts to Prevent Environmental Burden from CFC Emissions Recovery and Destruction of Refrigerants 115 Environment Efforts in Japan Refrigerant Recovery Network System In Japan, we are thorough in our recovery of fluorocarbons (refrigerants) from commercial air conditioners. In September 2006, we created a network system for the integrated management of all information from recovery to destruction of refrigerants. By computerizing all previously written records, from amount of refrigerant recovered to amount destroyed, we have made it easier to accurately keep track. The companies recovering and destroying the refrigerants add up the totals and these are reported annually to the prefectural governments in Japan. Because these reports can be generated from the system, these companies can work more efficiently. Unified Management System of Refrigerant Recovery and Destruction With each instance of refrigerant recovery, details such as the model of air conditioner and number of units, and the amount of refrigerant recovered, are entered into the electronic manifest. This makes it possible to get an accurate picture of the refrigerant recovery rate. Taking Calls 24 Hours a Day, 365 Days a Year for Recovery and Destruction (Fluorocarbon Recovery and Destruction Business) We take requests from retailers and other businesses for the proper recovery and destruction of refrigerants. The Daikin Contact Center takes calls all day, every day, and the recovered refrigerants are taken to our Yodogawa Plant, Kashima Plant, or one of the contracted destruction facilities around Japan where they are properly destroyed. In fiscal 2010, 345 tons of fluorocarbons were destroyed. Recovered Fluorocarbons (at time of repair and at time of disposal) Fluorocarbon destruction facilities (Yodogawa Plant) 116 Environment Maintenance Only After Thorough Recovery of Refrigerant During the parts replacement that takes place during maintenance of air conditioners, refrigerant can leak out into the atmosphere. To prevent this, the Daikin Group has recovery equipment at service outlets across Japan that carry out such maintenance, and this equipment is used to recover refrigerant before any repair work begins. In fiscal 2010, a total of approximately 306 tons of refrigerants were recovered at all service outlets. Types of Fluorocarbons Recovered during Maintenance (Japan) Training for Refrigerant Recovery Personnel The recovery of refrigerants requires special knowledge and skills. Daikin Industries provides the necessary training for the sales, technical, installation, and service staff who will be recovering refrigerants. After one of these training programs, the technician training course, participants take a final test and if they pass are registered as refrigerant recovery technicians by the Refrigerants Recycling Promotion and Technology Center. In fiscal 2010, 3,421 people, mostly from retailers and installers, passed the test. Of all those registered as refrigerant recovery technicians in Japan, 37.8% took the Daikin technician training course. Training courses also include environmental education Daikin Begins Certification System for Refrigerant Pipe Installation Technicians On April 1, 2011, Daikin started a certification system for refrigerant pipe technicians, an in-house system for certifying that installers have outstanding knowledge, techniques, skills, and ethics. This is the first air conditioning pipe installation certification course among manufacturers. Technicians certified for refrigerant recovery take the certification course, where they learn from Daikin employees with a wealth of experience and knowhow in advanced refrigerant pipe installation. The certified graduates of this course are outstanding technicians who ensure that no refrigerant leaks occur during pipe installation. Visual Representations of Refrigerants in Refrigeration and Air Conditioning Equipment The refrigerants used in refrigeration and air conditioning equipment are colorless, odorless, and tasteless gases that, although not harmful to humans, must be prevented from leaking into the atmosphere since these refrigerants have a great impact on global warming. In 2009, the Japan Refrigeration and Air Conditioning Industry Association announced a policy of displaying the effects of global warming caused by these refrigerants: a 'visualization' of their movement. Since that time, the Daikin Group in Japan has placed stickers on its refrigeration and air conditioning equipment for the Japanese market that show that fluorocarbons are being monitored. These same stickers are placed on products made overseas for the Japanese market. As of March 2011, stickers were being placed on all relevant products. 117 Environment We are improving the placement of stickers and designing products so that stickers are highly visible to end-users and installers and so that we can improve the recovery rate. Fluorocarbon 'visualization' sticker (for indoor unit) Recycling System for Commercial Use Air Conditioners Covering Multiple Regions, System Properly Recovers and Destroys Refrigerants Under the Home Appliance Recycling Law, Conventional Disposal Process for Commercial Air-conditioners manufacturers are obligated to recover refrigerants, materials, and parts from used residential air-conditioners for recycling. But there is no similar law for commercial air-conditioners. For this and other reasons, manufacturers cannot get a clear picture of the recovery situation. While metallic materials are recycled, many manufacturers view recovery and destruction of refrigerants as economically unfeasible, which New Recycling System makes it difficult to build a system to do this. Against this background, the Daikin Group is working with companies specializing in recycling, waste processing, and recovery and destruction of refrigerants in an effort to build a system for the proper recovery and destruction of refrigerants from commercial air-conditioners. This recycling system went into operation in fiscal 2004 in the Osaka, Chukyo, and Niigata districts of Japan and in fiscal 2005 in the Kyushu, Kanto, and Chugoku districts. Efforts Overseas Training Personnel in Refrigerant Recovery and Installing Recovery Equipment At the Daikin Europe Academy, training is held to teach the knowledge and skills needed to carry out refrigerant recovery. Course content is also in line with the EU regulations to prevent the release of refrigerants into the atmosphere. In China and other parts of Asia, all service bases have refrigerant recovery equipment. As we recover refrigerants, we remind customers how important this activity is to environmental protection, irrespective of the cost. 118 Environment Green Procurement Auditing Suppliers Based on Daikin's Green Procurement Guidelines The Daikin Group established its Green Procurement Guidelines in fiscal 2000 and requires suppliers in Japan and overseas to abide by these in the procurement of materials and parts used in manufacturing. Besides marking suppliers on environmental protection activities using a green procurement checklist, we also check their CO2 emissions from energy use. Suppliers who fail to satisfy our green procurement standards are asked to make the necessary improvements. Suppliers to Daikin's Machinery Divisions and Chemicals Division undergo meticulous monitoring of compliance with consideration for their particular industry sector. Production bases in Southeast Asia, China, Europe, and other world regions actively pursue green procurement. For example, bases in Thailand undergo audits and guidance based on a yearly plan. Striving for a Higher Green Procurement Rate In fiscal 2010, Group companies in Japan had a green procurement rate of 99%. We also designated suppliers who scored 100 points on the survey as 'green suppliers'. Starting in fiscal 2011, we plan to set a minimum for the percentage of Daikin Industries' suppliers who are green suppliers. In fiscal 2010, green suppliers accounted for 72.5% of all our suppliers. Our air conditioner production bases in Southeast Asia, China, Europe, and Oceania also strive for green procurement. In fiscal 2010, green procurement rates were 97% in Thailand, Green procurement briefing in Suzhou, China 89% in China, 82% in Europe, and 85% in Oceania. In fiscal 2011 and beyond, we will seek even greater cooperation from suppliers as we strive to further raise the green procurement rate. Green Procurement Rate (Japan) 119 Environment Green Procurement Rate (%) by Region (Japan, overseas) Other countries in North Japan China Thailand Europe Asia and Oceania America FY2008 97 79 85 69 FY2009 99 89 97 85 63 FY2010 99 89 97 85 82 45 Value of goods procured from suppliers Green procurement rate = who meet our assessment criteria Value of all goods procured Overview of Green Procurement Guidelines, 5th Edition Environmental Management Conditions for Suppliers Suppliers should have an ISO 14001-certified environmental management system Suppliers must themselves be carrying out green procurement Suppliers must have their own chemical substances management system Product-Related Conditions Materials and parts delivered to Daikin should have no substances forbidden by Daikin Production processes should use no substances forbidden by Daikin Upon request, provide Daikin with information on the amount of chemicals contained, which part it is used in, why it is being used, and its toxicity. Voluntarily reduce the amount of chemicals for which Daikin requests reduction Reduce and optimize product packaging Compliance with Restrictions on Toxic Chemicals Establishing Standards for Managing Chemical Substances in Products The Daikin Group has a list (shown below) of 30 substances not allowed in products, as well as SVHC (substances of very high concern) under the REACH Regulation, which will be added in future. Daikin requires suppliers to ensure that they comply with the Daikin Group Green Procurement Guidelines. When the Green Procurement Guidelines were revised in October 2009, we updated the list of restricted substances and increased the number from 26 to 30. 120 Environment Specified Chemical Substance List (for products) Control Substance name levels Cadmium and cadmium compounds Hexavalent chromium compounds Lead and lead compounds Mercury and mercury compounds Tributyl tin oxide (TBTO) Tributyl tins (TBTs) compounds *1 Triphenyl tins (TPTs) compounds *1 Dibutyl tin compounds (DBTs) *1 Dioctyltin compounds (DOTs) *1 Polybrominated biphenyls (PBBs) Polybrominated diphenyl ethers (PBDEs) Deca-Bromodiphenylether (Deca-BDE) *2 Prohibited Polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs) Polychlorinated terphenyls (PCTs) *2 Polychloronapthalenes (C1=>3) Short chain chlorinated paraffins Perfluorooctane sulfonate (PFOSs) *3 F gas (HFC, PFC, SF6) *4 Asbestos Azocolourants and azodyes which form certain aromatic amines *5 Ozone depleting substances (other than HCFCs) *6 Radioactive substances Phenol,2-(2H-benzotriazol-2-yl)-4,6-bis(1,1-dimethylethyl) *2 Dimethlyfumarate (DMF) *7 Vinyl chloride polymer (PVC) *8 Reduced Ozone depleting substances (only HCFCs) Beryllium oxide (BeO) *2 Phthalates (DINP, DIDP, DNOP) *2 Perchlorates *2 Nickel and nickel compounds *9 Managed Brominated flame retardants (other than PBBs, PBDEs, HBCDDs) Formaldehyde *2 EU REACH Regulation (SVHC: substances of very high concern) group (Prohibited materials specified by this guideline are excluded) *10 *1 The use of TBTs and TPTs is prohibited as of July 2010. The use of DBTs will be prohibited as of January 2012 (January 2015 for certain substances). The use of DOTs will be prohibited as of January 2012. However, only Commodities that touch the skin and Two-component normal temperature silicone modules will be prohibited. *2 Materials added to JIG representation material (July 2009). *3 The use of PFOSs is prohibited as of May 2009 under the POPs Agreement. Prohibited as of April 2010 under Japan's Law Concerning the Evaluation of Chemical Substances (except for applications in semiconductors, etching, and business photographic film). *4 The use of F gas (HFC, PFC, etc) is prohibited in one-component foams (except when required to meet national safety standards). (Banned in the EU starting in July 2008.) The use of F gas (HFC, PFC, etc.) is permitted for refrigerants. *5 Limited to applications in azo dyes and pigments which constitute the specific amines defined by the German Consumer Goods Ordinance and which come into contact with the human body for long hours. *6 The use of HCFC for the production of foams shall be prohibited, and the use as refrigerants for Japan and EU models shall also be prohibited. *7 Use prohibited as of May 2009 (formerly used as a fungicide in leather products and furniture before being prohibited in the EU). *8 There are fewer substances that can be used as PVC substitutes. *9 In cases in which the nickel comes into contact with the human body for long hours. *10 All SVHC (substances of very high concern) added in future shall be managed. Postscripts do not need to be added in future. 121 Environment Daikin Group Worldwide Complete Registration for REACH The REACH Regulation on chemical substances went into effect in Europe in June 2007. REACH obligates companies manufacturing or importing at least 1 ton of chemical substances a year in the EU to register with EU authorities. REACH covers almost all chemicals on the market in the EU. The Daikin Group companies share information through the REACH Liaison Conference in Japan and the REACH Shared Conference in Europe sponsored by Daikin Europe N.V. Daikin has built a system for the disclosure of substances of very high concern (SVHC) and has completed full registration in compliance with REACH. Proper Management of All RoHS Directive Substances The RoHS Directive (Restriction of Hazardous Substances Directive; full name is Directive on the restriction of the use of certain hazardous substances in electrical and electronic equipment) went into effect in July 2006, and restricts the use of six hazardous materials: lead, mercury, cadmium, hexavalent chromium, and two specified bromide fire retardants (polybrominated biphenyls (PBB) and polybrominated biphenyl ether (PBDE)). To this list, the Daikin Group added azo compounds to make seven substances that it prohibits in parts from suppliers. As of March 2006, Daikin had eliminated the use of all of these in relevant products for the European and Japanese markets. If we suspect that RoHS substances are contained in parts, we examine them with a fluorescence spectrometer or conduct a survey of toxicity using the MSDS-Plus database. If necessary, we have analysis done by third-party institutions. Daikin Eliminates Substances Ahead of the Chinese Version of RoHS In March 2007, the Management Methods for Controlling Pollution Caused by Electronic Information Products Regulation (China RoHS) was enacted. This directive specifies the same six substances (lead, mercury, cadmium, hexavalent chromium, specified bromide fire retardants) designated by the European RoHS Directive. Although the directive does not cover air conditioners, the products that the Daikin Group is selling in China do not contain RoHS substances. And we are gradually introducing products without these substances in Southeast Asia, where there are still no equivalent regulations banning their use. And like in the EU, if we suspect that these substances are contained in parts, we examine them, for example, with an X-ray fluorescence spectrometer to determine the amount. Determining Suppliers' CO2 Emissions to Comply with the ErP Directive November 2009 marked the start of the ErP Directive, which requires energy-using and energy-related products to incorporate eco-design. To comply with this directive, Daikin's green procurement survey for suppliers determines energy-induced CO2. Product assessment makes possible traceability through a system for determining CO2-equivalent values by type of fuel and energy-based CO2-equivalent values by country. For details, see Products that Help Customers Save Energy in the section Low-Impact Products. (Page 91) 122 Environment Compliance with J-Moss We release information on the presence in our products of the six substances covered by J-Moss (the marking for presence of the specific chemical substances for electrical and electronic equipment). Daikin room air conditioners are covered by J-Moss. Since 2001, Daikin has been determining and controlling chemical substances contained in products and we have stopped using substances specified under J-Moss. As a result, all models of our air conditioners (produced since July 2006) contain none of the substances exceeding the amounts under the standards. We will continue to actively provide information about our environmentally conscious products so that we can offer customers a peace of mind when making purchases. J-Moss Also known as JIS C 0950, J-Moss is an abbreviation of The marking for presence of the specific chemical substances for electrical and electronic equipment. J-Moss requires the labelling of electrical and electronic products containing six substances: lead, mercury, cadmium, hexavalent chromium, and two specified bromide fire retardants (polybrominated biphenyls (PBB) and polybrominated biphenyl ether (PBDE)). There are seven types of products covered: (1) personal computers, (2) unit air conditioners, (3) TVs, (4) electric refrigerators, (5) electric washing machines, (6) microwave ovens, and (7) clothes dryers. Daikin Products The substances contained in Daikin room air conditioners are shown on the table below. Note that the room air conditioners shipped in Japan starting in 2007 bear the Japan's Green Mark eco-label. Substances Contained in Room Air Conditioners Product type: Room air conditioner (interior/outdoor units) Model: All models produced since in July 2006 (see note 3). Chemical substance code Class Pb Hg Cd Cr(VI) PBB PBDE Manufactured parts ◯ ◯ ◯ ◯ ◯ ◯ Refrigerant system parts N/A ◯ ◯ ◯ ◯ ◯ Electrical/electronic parts N/A ◯ ◯ ◯ ◯ ◯ Compressor N/A ◯ ◯ ◯ ◯ ◯ Refrigerant ◯ ◯ ◯ ◯ ◯ ◯ Accessories ◯ ◯ ◯ ◯ ◯ ◯ JIS C 0950:2008 123 Environment Note: 1 A ◯ symbol means that the substance contained does not exceed the allowable amount under the standard. Note: 2 N/A means the substance is not applicable for labelling. Note: 3 Models designated below. Indoor unit: Wall mount, embedded ceiling cassette (single flow, double flow), embedded wall, built-in amenity, floor standing Exterior unit: For the following: Pair type, System Pack, Multi-Split System, Wide Select Multi, Equipped with Hot Water Floor Heating function Overview of J-Moss Under Japan's Law for the Promotion of Effective Utilization of Resources, relevant equipment must meet J-Moss standards. J-Moss (JIS C 0950) The marking for presence of the specific chemical substances for electrical and electronic equipment The marking for presence of the specific chemical substances for electrical and electronic equipment Gist of the Standards Indicating on labelling which of the specified chemical substances are contained in electrical and electronic equipment is meant to achieve the following: Management of chemical substances will be improved in all stages of the supply chain and life cycle. End consumers can easily understand the substances contained. It will lead to more effective use of resources and less impact on the environment. Spread the use of electrical and electronic equipment in which substances are properly controlled. Products Covered (1) Personal computers, (2) Unit air conditioners, (3) TVs, (4) Electric refrigerators, (5) Electric washing machines, (6) Microwave ovens, (7) Clothes dryers Specified chemical substances Chemical substance Code Standard for % by weight Lead Pb 0.1 Mercury Hg 0.1 Cadmium Cd 0.01 Hexavalent chromium Cr(VI) 0.1 Polybrominated biphenyls PBB 0.1 Polybrominated biphenyl ether PBDE 0.1 124 Environment Content Labelling If the content of the specified chemical substance exceeds the standard values, its content must be indicated on the product itself, the packaging, and on catalogs and other documentation. This information must also be put on the company's Web site. The content of some of the chemical substances does not need to be indicated on the labelling, and other chemical substances do not need to be indicated on labelling if they are Label indicating substances contained in product below the standard value. However, these must still be shown on the company's Web site. Green Mark Labelling Electrical and electronic equipment whose content of the specified chemical substances does not exceed the standard values may bear Japan's Green Mark eco-label on the conditions stated in the Guidelines for Using the Green Mark for Specified Chemical Substances in Electrical and Electronic Equipment. Green Mark Note: The Guidelines are recognized by the following groups. Japan Electronics and Information Technology Industries Association (JEITA) Japan Electrical Manufacturers' Association (JEMA) Japan Refrigeration and Air Conditioning Industry Association (JRAIA) 125 Environment Management of Chemical Substances Compliance with the PRTR Law The Daikin Group set a target of reducing PRTR substances by 50% in fiscal 2010 compared to fiscal 2005, and in fiscal 2007 we achieved this, three years ahead of schedule. We have continued to reduce these substances. When Japan's PRTR Law was revised in October 2009, a large number of chemicals were added to the list of restricted substances. Daikin thus set a target of reducing fiscal 2010 emissions to no more than 270 tons. Actual emissions in fiscal 2010 were 100 tons, far exceeding our target. To continue reducing the amount of PRTR substances, besides restricting the amounts we release into the environment, we are looking into ways we can replace the substances with less harmful substitutes. Emissions of PRTR Substances (Japan) Note: Under revisions to the Pollutant Release and Transfer Register Law (effective October 1, 2009), the number of designated substances increased from 354 to 462. PRTR Law (Pollutant Release and Transfer Register (PRTR) Law) Enacted in Japan in 1999, the PRTR Law is a legal framework in Japan for the calculation and publicizing of the amounts of certain hazardous chemical substances that are emitted or transferred as waste into the environment (air, water, and soil) or into public sewage systems. Other countries have similar regulations. The PRTR Law was revised in 2009. 126 Environment Compilation of PRTR Substances in FY2010 (PRTR substances of which at least 1 ton was handled) FY2010 Amount transported Amount emitted(tons) (tons) Substance name Public Air Soil Waste Sewage waterways 104 Chlorodifluoromethane (also called HCFC-22) 50.61 0.00 0.00 4.48 0.00 186 Dichloromethane (also called methylene chloride) 47.60 0.00 0.00 0.01 0.00 103 1-chloro-1,1-difluoroethane (also called HCFC-142b) 12.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 392 Normal hexane 3.66 0.00 0.00 1.30 0.00 300 Toluene 3.36 0.00 0.00 0.04 0.00 105 2-Chloro-1,1,1,2-tetrafluoroethane (also called HCFC-124) 1.40 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 80 Xylene 0.91 0.00 0.00 0.07 0.00 127 Chloroform 0.80 0.00 0.00 0.03 0.00 53 Ethylbenzene 0.24 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 374 Hydrogen fluoride and other water-soluble salts 0.23 0.00 0.00 110.00 0.00 13 Acetonitrile 0.01 0.00 0.00 0.92 0.03 232 N,N-dimethylformamide 0.00 0.00 0.00 3.30 0.00 28 Allyl alcohol 0.00 0.00 0.00 1.60 0.00 Polyoxyethylene alkyl ether (those whose alkyl group carbon number 407 0.00 0.00 0.00 120.00 0.50 is between 12 and 15, or compounds of these) 4 Acrylic acid 0.00 0.00 0.00 21.00 0.00 20 2-aminoethanol 0.00 0.00 0.00 5.13 0.00 31 Antimony and antimony compounds 0.00 0.00 0.00 4.80 0.00 408 Polyoxyethylene octyl phenyl ether 0.00 0.00 0.00 3.70 0.03 336 Hydroquinone 0.00 0.00 0.00 3.10 0.00 439 3-methylpyridine 0.00 0.00 0.00 1.90 0.00 1 Water soluble lead compounds 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.93 0.14 453 Molybdenum and molybdenum compounds 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.02 0.00 413 Phthalic anhydride 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.01 0.00 416 Methacrylic acid, 2-ethylhexyl ester 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 71 Ferric chloride 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 149 Carbon tetrachloride 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 240 Styrene 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 395 Water-soluble salts of peroxodisulfuric acid 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 Total 121 0 0 282 1 127 Environment Reducing Waste Definition of the Daikin Group's Zero Waste The Daikin Group's zero waste goal is an effort to landfill or incinerate (but not for heat recovery) less than 1% of all waste from production processes overseas (0.5% in Japan) and to recycle at least 99% overseas (99.5% in Japan). Seven Overseas Production Subsidiaries Achieve Zero Waste By fiscal 2005, all Daikin Group manufacturing bases in Japan had achieved zero waste (at least a 99.5% recycling ratio) and have maintained this ever since. Overseas production bases have been working to reduce waste and as of the present, seven overseas production subsidiaries, including Daikin Thailand and Daikin Europe, have achieved zero waste (at least a 99% recycling ratio). Other overseas production bases are working to reduce waste generated and achieve zero waste through measures including Separating garbage in efforts raising the recycling ratio. to achieve zero waste (Daikin Note: Zero waste is defined as a recycling ratio of at least 99.5% in Japan and at least 99% overseas. Thailand) Amount Disposed of and Amount Recycled (Japan) Amount Disposed of and Amount Recycled (Overseas) 128 Environment Belgium: Returnable Packaging At the end of fiscal 2010, Daikin Europe N.V. switched from cardboard boxes to foldable plastic boxes for product packaging. Besides allowing more packages to fit into delivery trucks, this plan has also reduced the amount of packaging material needed. Thailand: Recycling Grinding Sludge Daikin Compressor Industries Ltd. (DCI; head office: Thailand), the manufacturing base for compressors for residential air-conditioners, mixes the sludge from grinding and the cutting debris from casting, dries the mixture out, compresses it, and recycles it as casting material. Japan: Recycling Wooden Palettes The Shiga Plant has been procuring an increasing amount of materials and parts from overseas and these have been accompanied by an increasing number of pallets. The plant tried to figure out how to recycle these pallets and came up with the idea of making them into charcoal, which is now used as deodorizing agent in the deodorizing equipment on painting lines. Absorption deodorizer Crushing wooden palettes Making charcoal (activated charcoal) 129 Environment The Accumulation of Small Efforts Gives Birth to New Recycling Ideas Daikin employees do every little thing possible in their daily work to reduce the amount of waste generated. The Sakai Plant reuses buffer material in product packaging. The Shiga Plant has reduced the amount of wood waste by 75% by reusing this valuable resource whenever possible. It also has reduced the amount of sludge requiring processing by reducing the water content following water treatment. We are also planning new efforts such as separating plastics so as to make greater use of recycled materials. We plan to spread these efforts out to other air conditioner manufacturing bases. The Chemicals Division, meanwhile, incinerates waste on site to create raw materials that can be used. Report by Business Site (http://www.daikin.com/csr/environment/site_data/index.html) Using Water Resources Proper Water Use through Regular Monitoring At our plants, we periodically repair and patrol equipment that uses water in the production processes. We also measure the amount of water used and try to reduce the per-unit amount used. And we try to reuse waste water so that we can reduce the amount we discharge into the environment. We compile data on amount of water used and emitted as waste water. Environmental Impact: The Big Picture (Page 63) Each plant measures the substances contained in waste water. Report by Business Site (http://www.daikin.com/csr/environment/site_data/index.html) 130 Environment Belgium: Metal Treatment Process Altered to Reduce Cleaning Water Use by 70% In October 2010, Daikin Europe N.V. changed its washing process for metal plates. Changing the chemicals used allowed the washing water to be reused, cutting use of clean water by 70%. Thailand: Reusing Waste Water from Employee Areas Daikin Compressor Industries Ltd. (Thailand) (DCI) has installed a new filter system on the water treatment equipment for waste water from the cafeteria and restrooms. This waste water can be made as clean as industrial-use water and is used for the company toilets. 131 Environment We are striving to strengthen environmental audits, eliminate environmental risks, and provide environmental education with the aim of establishing the integrated group environmental management system. Environmental Management System ISO 14001 Certification at All the Major Bases around the World A common goal of the entire Group is to build and operate ISO 14001-based environmental management systems (EMS) that will boost (See page 134) our environmental activities. Environmental Management System In Japan, all Daikin bases and subsidiaries come under an integrated System Driving Environmental EMS. We are currently working to establish an EMS that encompasses Management the systems at all worldwide bases. Ratio of Employees Belonging to Facilities That Obtained ISO 14001 The creation of environmental management systems is also proceeding Certification at companies in the OYL Group, which joined the Daikin Group in 2006. Daikin bases certified for ISO 14001 (Japan, overseas) Global Environmental Meetings Environmental Audits Internal Auditors Conduct Strict Audits The Daikin Group has regular annual environmental audits: internal audits by Daikin itself and audits by third-party certification institutes. (See page 138) These help us check and constantly improve the functioning of our systems. Environmental Audits FY2010 Report from Audits 132 Environment Environmental Risk Management Audits and Regular Disaster Drills Reduce Environmental Risk A company-wide internal environmental auditing team carries out regular legal audits once a year to ensure environmental risk is kept to a (See page 139) minimum. Environmental Risk Management If any accidents or calamities should occur, manufacturing bases and Monitoring Environmental Standards production subsidiaries are prepared to deal with the problem thanks to Measures for Soil and Groundwater regular disaster drills for all employees. Pollution Storage and Treatment of PCBs Daikin's Storage of PCBs Environmental Accounting In FY2010, we spent 21% more on research and development related to energy efficiency and refrigerants Environmental accounting gives a quantitative representation of the costs and effects of environmental measures and constitutes an (See page 142) important item of environment information. As well, it is a tool for managing the overall environmental impact of our global group and for Environmental Accounting coming up with the most efficient and effective ways to reduce this Accounting Method impact. Breakdown of Environmental Conservation Costs (% of total) Cost of environmental conservation Effects of environmental conservation Economic benefits of environmental conservation efforts (monetary benefits) Environmental Education E-learning Boosts Environmental Awareness The Daikin Group has a variety of environmental education programs that get employees to take action by deepening their understanding of (See page 145) things like environmental management systems and Daikin's effect on the environment. Environmental Education FY2010 Environmental Education (All Part of this education is done via e-learning over our intranet for Daikin Group Companies in Japan) employees in Japan. 133 Environment Environmental Management System Creating Integrated Group Environmental Management The diagram below shows the organization for the Daikin Group's environmental management system (EMS). Overseas, environmental meetings are held once a year in each of four regions (Europe, North America, China, and Asia/ Oceania). Besides sharing Group policy and medium and long-term targets, these meetings allow attendees to share a variety of information with the aim of achieving an integrated group environmental management system. The creation of environmental management systems is also proceeding at companies in the OYL Group, which joined the Daikin Group in 2006. We are currently in the process of formulating a mediumand long-term environmental action plan for fiscal 2011 and beyond. The OYL Group will be included in this plan and will conduct environmental management based on the Daikin Group's targets. System Driving Environmental Management 134 Environment Ratio of Employees Belonging to Facilities That Obtained ISO 14001 Certification Environmental Protection Integral to Business: Building an Integrated EMS In 1996, individual production bases in the Daikin Group in Japan began creating and operating their own EMS for the sake of environmental protection. Sites created and operated their own EMS based on the characteristics of their business and regions because at that time environmental protection was mainly aimed at preventing pollution such as air and water pollution. But as society underwent changes, Daikin realized that environmental protection activities are an integral part of its business and management. In 2002, Daikin came out with a policy that advocated the integration of environmental and business activities and the full-fledged pursuit of environmental management. In order to incorporate measures that would make this policy common to the entire Group, the individual EMS of the various bases and subsidiaries had to be consolidated into an integrated EMS. We thus began creating an EMS that would integrate the bases and subsidiaries (including non-production bases and subsidiaries), and in March 2004 all bases and subsidiaries (including non-production bases) in Japan received integrated certification for ISO 14001. This has given us a system for conducting environmental management across the entire group in Japan, including non-production bases such as sales companies. Global Environmental Meetings Boosting Environmental Action by Sharing Information and Discussing Challenges To ensure the continuous improvement of the Daikin Group's environmental management, environmental meetings are held once a year in four regions (Europe, North America, China, and Asia/ Oceania). These meetings allow attendees to share Group policy and medium and long-term targets, as well as a variety of other valuable information. An environmental meeting in Europe Daikin Bases Certified for ISO 14001 (Japan) 1996: Daikin Industries Group in Japan* * Sakai Plant certified in October 1996. Certification followed at Daikin Industries' bases and domestic manufacturing subsidiaries. In March 2004, certification for the Daikin Industries Group in Japan was upgraded to integrated certification. 135 Environment ISO 14001 Certification for Overseas Subsidiaries (as of March 2011) Date Subsidiary certified Sep. 1997 Daikin America, Inc. Feb. 1998 Daikin Industries (Thailand) Ltd. Feb. 1998 Daikin Europe N.V. Nov. 2001 Xi'an Daikin Qing'an Compressor Co,. Ltd. Nov. 2001 Daikin Air-Conditioning (Shanghai) Co., Ltd. Jun. 2002 Daikin Fluoro Coatings (Shanghai) Co,. Ltd. Nov. 2002 Daikin Air-Conditioning (Shanghai) Co., Ltd., Huizhou Branch Jan. 2004 Daikin Airconditioning (Thailand ) Ltd. Jan. 2004 Daikin Chemical Netherlands B.V. Jan. 2004 Daikin Airconditioning Germany GmbH Jun. 2004 Daikin Airconditioning Spain S.A. Dec. 2004 Daikin Airconditioning France S.A.S. Dec. 2004 Daikin Compressor Industries, Ltd. Jan. 2005 Siam Daikin Sales Co.,Ltd. Jan. 2005 Daikin Airconditioning Central Europe Feb. 2005 Daikin Airconditioning Poland Sp. zo.o Feb. 2005 Daikin Airconditioning Italy S.p.A Mar. 2005 Daikin Trading (Thailand) Ltd. Mar. 2005 Daikin Airconditioning (Singapore) Pte. Ltd. Apr. 2005 Daikin Asia Servicing Pte. Ltd. Apr. 2005 Daikin Airconditioning Belgium N.V. Dec. 2005 Daikin Airconditioning U.K., Ltd. Dec. 2005 Daikin Device (Suzhou) Co., Ltd. Jan. 2006 Daikin Chemical France S.A.S. Jun. 2006 Daikin Industries Czech Republic s.r.o. Jul. 2006 Daikin Fluorochemicals (China) Co., Ltd. Sep. 2006 Daikin Motor (Suzhou) Co., Ltd. Oct. 2006 Daikin Australia Pty., Ltd. Dec. 2006 Daikin Airconditioning India Pvt. Ltd. May 2007 Daikin (China) Investment Co., Ltd. Aug. 2007 Daikin Airconditioning (Malaysia) Sdn., Bhd. Aug. 2007 Daikin Airconditioning (Hong Kong ) Ltd. Nov. 2007 Daikin Air-Conditioning Technology (Shanghai), Ltd. Dec. 2007 Daikin Air-Conditioning Technology (Beijing), Ltd. Dec. 2007 Daikin Air-Conditioning Technology (Guanghou), Ltd. Jan. 2008 Cri-Tech Inc. Feb. 2008 Daikin Fluorochemicals (China) Co., Ltd., Shanghai Branch Feb. 2008 Daikin Fluorochemicals (China) Co., Ltd., Beijing Branch 136 Environment Date Subsidiary certified Feb. 2008 Daikin Fluorochemicals (China) Co., Ltd., Guangzhou Branch Mar. 2008 Daikin America, Inc. (Orangeburg) Jun. 2008 Daikin Chemical Europe GmbH Jul. 2008 Daikin Device Czech Republic s.r.o. Sep. 2008 Daikin Airconditioning Portugal S.A. Jan. 2009 Daikin Airconditioning Greece S.A. 2009 Daikin Air Conditioning South Africa 2009 Daikin Klima Pazarlama Co., Ltd. Jul. 2010 Daikin Refrigeration (Suzhou) Co., Ltd. Mar. 2011 Daikin Airconditioning Netherlands B.V. ISO14001 Certification for OYL Group Companies Date Company certified Nov. 2004 Shenzhen McQuay Air Conditioning Co., Ltd. Mar. 2007 OYL Technology Sdn. Bhd. May 2007 McQuay Air Conditioning & Refrigeration (Wuhan) Co., Ltd. Jul. 2007 PT. OYL Sentra Manufacturing Dec. 2007 O.Y.L. Manufacturing Co. Sdn. Bhd. Jan. 2008 AAF (Shenzhen) Co., Ltd. Jan. 2008 AAF (Suzhou) Co., Ltd. Jun. 2008 McQuay Suzhou Nov. 2008 OYL Research & Development Centre Sdn Bhd Jan. 2009 American Air Filter Manufacturing Sdn Bhd Mar. 2009 OYL Steel Centre Sdn Bhd Jun. 2009 OYL Condair Industries Sdn Bhd Aug. 2009 J&E Hall Refrigeration Sdn Bhd Jan. 2010 J&E Hall Limited (United Kingdom) Jan. 2010 McQuay Italia S.p.A.(Italy) Jan. 2010 McQuay (Faribault) Jan. 2010 McQuay (Owatonna) Jan. 2010 AAF (UK)-Ltd May 2010 McQuay (Dayton) Oct. 2010 AAF Internation sro (Slovakia) Nov. 2010 McQuay (Auburn) Jan. 2011 AAF-International B.V. (The Netherlands) Mar. 2011 AAF (Wuhan) Co., Ltd. Mar. 2011 AAF (Columbia) 137 Environment Environmental Audits Audit by Internal Auditors and Third-Party Institutes Daikin Group companies in Japan certified for the integrated EMS undergo regular annual environmental audits performed by internal auditors and third-party certification institutes. This lets us know if our EMS is working as it should and helps us improve. During audits performed in fiscal 2010 by third-party certification institutes, auditors found five areas in which improvement was needed. However, auditors also praised Daikin for an improved environmental performance without sacrificing the business environment. FY2010 Report from Audits Problems found from internal environmental Problems found by third-party certification audits institutes Major 0 0 non-conformance Minor 43 0 non-conformance Items improved 219 5 Violations FY2010 Details No violations There were no violations of environmental laws or regulations Training Internal Auditors There are currently 67 internal auditors undergoing training and skills improvement at the Daikin Group in Japan. New and experienced auditors work in pairs so as to pass on skills from one generation to the next. Internal auditors also improve their skills through training once a year. 138 Environment Environmental Risk Management Auditing and Improving Compliance with Environmental Laws and Regulations Once a year, the Daikin Group in Japan has company-wide environmental auditing teams conduct audits to check for legal compliance and ensure there are no environmental risks. We have systems in place that allow us to minimize environmental damage if there should be an accident or calamity at the production site of Daikin or a subsidiary. We also maintain close relations with neighborhood associations through factory tours and Drill to practice putting up an other activities so that we can have a joint system of emergency measures with local emergency oil fence (Shiga Plant) communities. Report by Business Site (http://www.daikin.com/csr/environment/site_data/index.html) Regular Emergency Drills Keep Daikin Ready Joint System of Emergency Measures with Local Communities We have systems in place that allow us to minimize environmental damage if there should be an accident or calamity at the production site of Daikin or a subsidiary. The Chemicals Division and machinery divisions created the Disaster Prevention Manual, which details how to deal with emergencies like chemical and oil leaks. The manual is the basis for regular emergency drills. In fiscal 2009, we held regular drills that prepare us for emergencies such as oil leaks. Disaster prevention drill (Yodogawa Plant) In fiscal 2010, we held regular training to be prepared for emergencies like oil leaks and disasters such as earthquakes and fires. In the Air Conditioning Manufacturing Division, we have a business continuity plan (BCP) so that we can get our company up and running in case there is an earthquake or other disaster. Employees are given Daikin's Action Guide in Case of Earthquake. There are also designated employees who will lead emergency measures in case of a disaster. Emergency training to deal with water quality emergency We are currently revamping our disaster measures based on our experience during the Great (Sakai Plant) East Japan Earthquake in March 2011. Daikin's overseas manufacturing bases hold drills to ensure safety and security at all times. Daikin Fluoro Coatings Daikin Industries (Thailand) Daikin Motor (Suzhou) Co., (Shanghai) Co., Ltd. holds drill Ltd. holds a disaster Ltd. holds drill in dealing with in preventing chemical leaks prevention drill oil leaks 139 Environment For details on earthquake measures, see Compliance and Risk Management System in the CSR Management section of the website. (Page 27) Response to the Great East Japan Earthquake (Page 36) Close Communication with Communities to Prepare for Emergencies We place the utmost priority on ensuring the safety of residents living near our plants. Particularly with regards to facilities like our Yodogawa Plant, which is located in a residential area, we use risk assessment to eliminate as much risk as possible. We also strive to keep the public informed based on the principles of responsible care*1. At the Shiga Plant, we use MSDS*2 for the handling of chemicals, no matter little of it there may be, while seeking ways to provide the public with information. Plant tour for local residents (Yodogawa Plant) We conduct regular exchanges with neighborhood community associations near our plants through plant tours and other activities, and we establish systems of communication with these bodies so that both Daikin and the surrounding communities are prepared for emergencies. *1 Responsible care: An initiative by the chemical industry in which companies strive to improve their environmental, safety and health performance in all stages from development and production to distribution, use, and final consumption of chemicals. It also covers disclosure of the results of these efforts in order to keep the public informed. *2 MSDS (Material safety data sheet): A sheet given to customers along with shipped products that explains how to safely handle and use the products. For details on Daikin's efforts to create a relationship of trust with communities, see A Good Corporate Citizen in the Responsibility to Local Communities section of the website. (Page 227) To Totally Eliminate PFOA Emissions in Fluorochemical Products by 2012, We are Accelerating the Switch to Substitutes The Daikin Group is working towards its target of totally eliminating the use of PFOA (a fluorine compound that persists indefinitely in the environment) by 2012. PFOA is used in the production of fluorochemical products and is present in minute quantities in some products. For details, see Reducing PFOA Emissions (Page 96) Monitoring Environmental Standards Strict Management at Manufacturing Bases Exceeds Legal Restrictions The Daikin Group controls air and water pollution, as well as noise and vibration, using voluntary standards that are stricter than national and local government standards. We have set control values at approximately 60% of legal standards, and we regularly measure our various environmental impacts and work to either prevent or decrease them. Monitored environmental data for Daikin Industries' four manufacturing bases is on the Daikin Web site. Report by Business Site (http://www.daikin.com/csr/environment/site_data/index.html) 140 Environment Measures for Soil and Groundwater Pollution Groundwater Cleanup Continues at Kashima Plant In 2000, the concentration of organic chlorine-based compounds in groundwater at the Kashima Plant was found to exceed environmental standards. We therefore removed and cleaned the contaminated soil, pumped out and cleaned the groundwater, and took precautions to prevent pollution from spreading to outside the plant and to remediate all types of pollution. Thanks to continuous cleaning of the groundwater, the concentration of pollutants decreased. We will continue these cleanup efforts to bring the levels down to within environmental standard values. Report by Business Site (http://www.daikin.com/csr/environment/site_data/index.html) Storage and Treatment of PCBs Implementing Strict Management and Disposal of Equipment Containing PCBs Daikin abides by national laws in properly managing equipment containing PCBs (polychlorinated biphenyls). We have already begun disposing of some of this equipment through early registration with the Japan Environmental Safety Corporation (JESCO) and based on a JESCO PCB disposal plan. In fiscal 2009, the Sakai Plant disposed of two condensers. In fiscal 2011, the Shiga Plant is planning to dispose of five condensers. Because JESCO does not yet have a disposal plan for ballasts, these will be disposed of sometime after fiscal 2013. Daikin's Storage of PCBs Items disposed of (item Disposal plan (cost is approximated) Plants and products stored and cost*1) FY2009 FY2010 FY2011 FY2012 FY2013 and on Shiga Plant 3 condensers 2 condensers, 126 ballasts 5 condensers, 126 (approx. 1.8 million (approx. 5 million yen) fluorescent ballasts yen) Sakai Plant 2 condensers, 4 ballasts, 2 condensers 4 ballasts, 36 liters of insulating 36 liters of additional (1.16 million yen) oil(approx.100,000 yen) insulating oil Yodogawa Plant, 12 condensers 6 transformers (approx. 16 million Kashima Plant (approx. 17 million yen), 448 ballasts (approx. 15 6 transformers*2, 12 yen) million yen) condensers, 476 ballasts *1 Cost is approximated, includes costs to recover, transport, and dispose of PCBs. *2 In fiscal 2010, PCB was found to be contained in minute quantities. 141 Environment Environmental Accounting Daikin's Environmental Accounting Philosophy Daikin believes that environmental accounting, a measure of the cost and effectiveness of environmental efforts, is a vital part of the environmental information we provide, as well as an important tool in our environmental management. Environmental accounting is thus the basis for the Daikin Group's efforts to most effectively and efficiently lessen the worldwide environmental impact of its worldwide business activities. FY2010 Environmental Accounting Figures Total environmental protection costs in FY2010 were ¥19.1 billion (investment in equipment: ¥3.6 billion; expenses: ¥15.5 billion), up 21% over the previous year. Research and development costs accounted for 86% of this. For the air-conditioner business, we focused our R&D efforts on developing technologies for energy efficiency and refrigerants. Amidst rising concern about global warming, we have been developing basic technologies and equipment in a number of areas including inverters for improving air conditioner energy efficiency and heat pumps for use in space and water heating. Accounting Method The costs and effects of Daikin's environmental efforts were calculated based on the Environmental Accounting Guideline 2005 released by Japan's Ministry of the Environment. Costs of Environmental Conservation Expenses include labor costs but not depreciation expenses for investment in facilities. The expenses not full allocated to environmental protection were proportionally divided and totaled according to a relevant Daikin standard. Effects of Environmental Conservation Please see the relevant page for details of each item. Economic Benefits of Environmental Conservation Efforts The environmental conservation effects and economic benefits were calculated by comparing the adjusted output to the previous fiscal year. Breakdown of Environmental Conservation Costs (% of total) 142 Environment Environmental Accounting in Internal Management For some time now, we have been working to incorporate environmental accounting into our internal management. Currently, the level of investment in environmental protection and investment efficiency are assessed against trends, other companies, and other divisions in our company. The results are used to develop methods for making investment decisions. By prioritizing our environmental protection efforts, the worldwide Daikin Group can achieve more efficient use of environmental investment and more efficiently reduce environmental impact. As part of these efforts, we are considering introducing an integrated assessment index for environmental impact; and material cost accounting, which we use to assess the cost of things like materials used and energy lost in production processes. FY2010 environmental costs (¥ million) Cost of environmental conservation FY2009 FY2010 Category Major activities Amount of Amount of equipment Expenses equipment Expenses invested invested Cost in business area 810 2,600 985 3,372 Introduction, maintenance, and management of pollution prevention facilities/equipment, expenses for 1. Pollution prevention 239 611 372 967 measurement/analysis of air pollution control, water pollution control, vibration, and noise. Introduction of energy efficient facilities/equipment, 2. Global environmental reduction of fluorocarbon emissions in the production 511 469 566 551 conservation process, and recovery of fluorocarbons. Reduction or recycling of waste, subcontracting of 3. Resource circulation 60 1,520 47 1,855 waste disposal, and resource conservation activities. Recycling of used products, and recovery, recycling, Upstream/downstream and destruction of fluorocarbons in used products or 28 446 0 104 products still in service. Running of company organization for environmental matters, environmental education, environmental Management activities 24 705 26 771 information disclosure, and establishment/maintenance of environmental management systems. Work on three major tasks for air conditioners, and Research and development of fluorochemical products with minimized 2,185 8,602 2,579 10,959 development environmental impact. Provision of personnel and monetary aid to Social activities environment-related organizations, and environmental 0 122 1 126 protection activities in local communities. Environmental damage Costs for purification of polluted groundwater and soil. 0 205 0 133 Total 3,047 12,680 3,590 15,466 Total of investment in facilities within the period 28,400 28,800 Total of investment in R&D activities within the period 28,200 30,800 143 Environment Effects of environmental conservation FY2009 FY2010 Effects figures figures -65,315 97,483 1. Effects of the resources used for Energy consumption tons-CO2 tons-CO2 business activities Reduction in water consumption -1,173,562m3 2,543,323m3 Effects corresponding Reduction in NOx emissions -54 tons 38 tons with costs within Reduction in SOx emissions 1 tons -5 tons business area 2. Effects against environmental Reduction in VOC emissions 8 tons 6 tons impacts and waste resulting from Reduction in fluorocarbon emissions 53 tons 110 tons business activities Reduction in total COD of drain water -202 tons 340 tons Reduction in waste materials -2,738 tons 497 tons Number of residential air conditioners Effects associated with benefits and 170,000 units 250,000 units Effects to upstream/ collected services that are calculated and 349 tons 345.2 tons downstream costs Amount of fluorocarbons recovered based on business activities 129.0 tons 145.6 tons Amount of packaging material recycled (¥ million) Economic benefits of environmental conservation efforts (monetary benefits) Effects FY2009 FY2010 Profit Profit from sale of recycled waste 328 621 Reduction in energy expenses resulting from energy conservation efforts 30 515 Reduction in expenses Reduction in waste disposal expenses resulting from resource conservation or recycling 20 -363 resources 144 Environment Environmental Education Environmental Education that Leads to Employee Awareness and Action Be it through educational or on-the-job opportunities, the Daikin Group promotes employee awareness of how our business affects the environment to encourage employees to take positive action for its preservation. In Japan, we hold e-learning on the intranet once a year in order to enhance employees' understanding about the environmental issues most important to Daikin. We have an in-house environmental newsletter that introduces actions that each company division are taking. The intranet and Daikin newsletter also provide the useful tips to reduce the environmental impact at home such as how to save electricity and water usage. Employees Take Eco-Action for World Environment Day To coincide with World Environment Day on June 5, since fiscal 2008, Daikin has had a range of environmental activities at the company and employees' homes. In fiscal 2010, 10,775 employees, or about 98% of all employees, took part. Daikin managed to reduce CO2 emissions by 3.8 tons through activities including eco-driving (driving at a constant speed, stepping lightly on the accelerator pedal), setting air conditioning 1 degree higher than usual, using less paper, and leaving the company at the end of the official working day and turning off all lights and air conditioning. PR and educational tools to raise employees' environmental awareness In-house environmental newsletter E-learning textbook 145 Environment FY2010 Environmental Education (All Daikin Group Companies in Japan) The Daikin Group in Japan conducted the following company-wide education. Individual company divisions also conducted their own educational activities. Name of activity Personnel involved No. of times held Environmental e-learning All employees Once With the goal of raising environmental awareness and knowledge, participants learn about a wide range of environmental issues, especially those directly related to Daikin's business, such as global warming and ozone layer depletion, as well as new environmental topics each year that are relevant and current. In fiscal 2010, besides chemical substances, we continued the study of biodiversity (begun in fiscal 2009) to understand how it relates to Daikin, since in 2010 COP10 (Tenth Meeting of the Conference of the Parties to the Convention on Biological Diversity) was held in Nagoya. Environmental managers education Environmental managers Twice In fiscal 2010, we started lectures for newly appointed environmental managers. Through lectures and workshops, participants deepened their understanding of the workings and rules of the company-wide EMS, environment-related legal systems, and the roles and authority of the managers in Daikin's environmental system. Experienced environmental managers underwent training to re-aquaint themselves with the issue of roles and authority, and also held discussions on improving leadership abilities. Briefings on legal matters ① Education on waste management law Managers and other heads of Held at four sites (Nagoya, Osaka, ② Education on fluorocarbons recovery relevant work areas Fukuoka, Tokyo) and destruction law ① Participants learn the main points of managing waste so that they can raise their competence in dealing with waste management law (making contracts with subcontractors for waste disposal, creating waste manifests). ② Participants learn the main points of fluorocarbons recovery and destruction so that they can raise their competence in dealing with flurocarbons recovery and destruction law (creating a log that tracks the fluorocarbon). 146 Environment The Daikin Group holds environmental seminars and education for children on a regular basis. This allows us to reflect what our stakeholders are saying in our business activities and to expand green hearts (think of the Earth and take care of the environment). Environmental Forums and Exhibits Daikin Joins Environmental Exhibits Daikin strives to educate the public by holding environmental seminars on energy, climate, and other issues closely tied to our business, and by (See page 148) taking part in exhibits of environmentally conscious products. We also release information to the community on the environmental impact of our Environmental Forums and Exhibits business activities. Daikin Cooperates in Formation of Environmental Policy Daikin Environmental Report Environmental Ads Environmental Education and Awareness Activities Daikin Holds Circle of Life Environmental Education Program for Elementary Schools in Fiscal 2010 The Daikin Group conducts environmental education and awareness activities around the world with the aim of helping children develop (See page 150) better understanding about environmental issues and thus better able to lead future generations. Efforts Overseas Efforts in Japan Employees' Daily Efforts 147 Environment Environmental Forums and Exhibits Exchanging Opinions on Key Issues at Air Conditioner Forum Since 1995, the Daikin Group has held air conditioner forums where Daikin and noted names in the field exchange opinions on the future of air conditioning. With Daikin's rapid business expansion worldwide, we began holding forums in fiscal 2007 in Europe and soon after in China, North America, and Southeast Asia as well. Our most pressing task is to shift to next-generation refrigerants to meet the deadline for regulations calling for developing countries to freeze their consumption and production of Air conditioner forum in the HCFCs by 2013. A pressing worldwide task is energy management that gives better energy United States efficiency of building equipment such as air conditioners. In fiscal 2010, companies in the Daikin group around the world exchanged opinions on ways to carry out these tasks. Daikin Joins Environmental Exhibits To let as many people as possible know what Daikin is doing for the environment, we take part in exhibits and trade fairs around the world, and we hold environmental seminars for experts in construction and other industries. Environmental building design is an important issue today, and the Daikin Group holds environmental seminars for people in the architecture field whenever it takes part in international trade shows. Seminar on indoor air environment and energy In November 2010, Daikin joined a trade show in Brazil, a country experiencing rapid efficiency (Brazil) economic growth but at the same time a worsening environment. In conjunction with this trade show, Daikin Industries held a seminar focusing on indoor air environment and energy efficiency. Daikin Cooperates in Formation of Environmental Policy Daikin Provides Opportunities to Discuss Next-Generation Refrigerants on an International Level Towards Selection of Ideal Refrigerants Emerging nations are studying which refrigerants should replace HCFC in accordance with the Montreal Protocol's restrictions on ozone-depleting substances. Daikin is the only air conditioner manufacturer that also makes refrigerant, and we aid in the selection of appropriate refrigerants by creating opportunities for academic societies and industry organizations to gather and exchange ideas and opinions. We take every opportunity to discuss the selection and application of next-generation refrigerants: at international conferences and exhibits in the vast market of China, as well as in Europe, the U.S., and around Asia, we discuss topics like refrigerant trends and efforts to reduce emissions with members of the United Nations and administrative organizations in countries around the world. For details, see Key Activities of Fiscal 2010: The Quest for Next-Generation Refrigerants. (Page 42) 148 Environment Daikin Environmental Report Reports Published in Japan and Other World Regions Since 1998, Daikin Industries has published an environmental report (now called the Corporate Social Responsibility Report) to inform all stakeholders of the Daikin Group's environmental philosophy and eco-actions. We supplement these reports with more detailed information on our Web site. Our overseas Group companies also publish environmental reports once a year. There are versions for Asia and Oceania, Europe, and China. Asia and Oceania Europe China Environmental Ads Environmental Protection Information through Ads on Trains and in Newspapers Daikin Industries has ads on public transport and in newspapers dealing not just with products but also reporting on world topics like environmental protection and air conditioning trends. Series of Daikin environmental ads above doors of trains Ads introduce environmental technology by using information on air conditioning from around the world. Ads in the Nihon Keizai Shinbun (Japan Economic Journal) and the Yomiuri Shimbun: Renewable energy—solar Newspaper ads introduce heat-pump technology, which uses renewable energy. 149 Environment Efforts Overseas Employees at China Bases Hold Children's Environmental Seminars The Daikin Group in China runs environmental seminars for elementary school students. Acting as instructors, Daikin employees use original teaching materials and games to help children learn the importance of the environment and what they can do every day to protect it. After these seminars were started by Daikin Air Conditioning Technology (Beijing) Co., Ltd. in fiscal 2005, they spread to sites in Shanghai and Hangzhou in fiscal 2006. In fiscal 2009, we used our product showrooms to hold seminars on Daikin's energy-efficient technologies and products, and approximately 700 elementary school students attended. Seminar for elementary school children at a showroom in Hangzhou Efforts in Japan Daikin Develops Circle of Life Program to Teach Elementary Students About Biodiversity Daikin and international NGO Conservation International have developed a biodiversity education program for elementary schools called Circle of Life. Conservation International is also Daikin's partner in a reforestation project in Indonesia. In the program, children use worksheets that prompt them to think for themselves about the environment, and they carry out role-plays on deforestation in which they take the roles of the various people with conflicting views on the forest and its uses. Teachers at the schools taking part in the program gave glowing reports: We became Students role-play in a forestry issues discussion more familiar with the problem of deforestation in Indonesia and the students are more aware of what they can do, The program taught us much about Indonesia, and it allowed us to see the problems from the point of view of people living there. Now I want to help the students to think about what they can do. Since April 2010, Daikin has been providing schools all over Japan with free teaching materials and as of the end of March 2011, 34 schools had taken part in the program. We have also sent instructors to lead lessons at 10 schools. See Key Activities of Fiscal 2010: Raising Environmental Awareness. (Page 59) See The Circle Of Life (available in Japanese only) (http://www.daikin.co.jp/csr/edu/index.html) Daikin Website Offers Enjoyable Way to Raise Environmental Awareness The Daikin Industries website shows visitors how to use air conditioning in an economical, environmental friendly way, and teaches about the environmental issues Daikin faces. The site offers an enjoyable way for people of all ages to learn about the relation between air conditioners and the environment. 150 Environment Employees' Daily Efforts Eco Activities Earn Employees Right to Join Commemorative Tree-Planting Event at Shiga Plant The Sakura Project was started in fiscal 2009 at Daikin Industries' Shiga Plant to raise employees' daily environmental awareness. Under this project, employees assess their own environmental protection activities, and points are awarded based on community volunteer work, and environmental protection at home and in the workplace. The 40 groups with the highest number of points earned the right to participate in the planting of 40 sakura (cherry) trees to commemorate the 40th anniversary Planting cherry trees of the Shiga Plant. We also donated mature sakura trees to Kusatsu City, and we are planning to provide a new public park that will both make our plant greener and beautify the community. In May 2010, the Shiga Plant and Kusatsu City, where the plant is located, signed an agreement on joint environmental protection under which Daikin will continue the Sakura The group of 40 employees Project and Kusatsu City will promote the project on its website and at various events. who earned the right to plant cherry trees For details, see Report by Business Site (Shiga Plant). (http://www.daikin.com/csr/environment/site_data/shiga.html) 151 Environment Because we are aware that our contribution to global warming is the greatest factor affecting biodiversity, we do everything we can to reduce the greenhouse gases from our business activities. We also strive to protect and rejuvenate forests that are home to various forms of life so that these forests can absorb more CO2 and preserve a habitat for living organisms. Protecting Biodiversity Maintaining and Rejuvenating Ecosystem Balance The Daikin Group works to maintain balance in the world's valuable nature and ecosystems so that we can help bring back the abundance (See page 153) of the natural world. Basic Policy of Protecting Biodiversity The Daikin Group's laboratories and recreational facilities contain areas Efforts in Nature Preservation Areas for growing rare plants, and we work with botanists in protecting these. Efforts at Bases We also work to protect biodiversity in the forests of Indonesia and in Shiretoko, a World Nature Heritage site in Japan. Biodiversity Awareness Teaching Children the Importance of Biodiversity Besides supporting employees in their volunteer work to protect biodiversity, the Daikin Group places great importance on providing (See page 157) information and education to the general public. Supporting Children's Education Daikin Industries developed the Circle of Life environmental education program for elementary school students, which focuses on biodiversity based on Daikin's reforestation efforts in Indonesia. In April 2010, we began providing schools around Japan with teaching materials free of charge. 152 Environment Basic Policy of Protecting Biodiversity Protect and Rejuvenate the Gifts of Nature The Daikin Group's business is possible thank to the blessings of biodiversity. At the same time, the environmental impact of our business has direct and indirect effects on the habitats and ecosystems of living things and can result in the loss of biodiversity. We use resources like water, wood, and paper, we emit chemicals into the air, water, and soil, and we consume mineral resources (metallic ores, fluorites, etc.). The greatest impact we have on the environment is our contribution to global warming through the use of energy and the emission of fluorocarbons. We thus strive to curb global warming in all our business activities and maintain ecosystem balance to help rejuvenate the abundance of nature. In the countries and regions in which we do business, we work with governments, residents groups, NGOs, and NPOs in efforts including the protection and rejuvenation of nature and the creation of new forests on our premises. We offer support to the employees who are conducting these activities, and we strive to provide information and education to the general public. The ideas stated here form our Basic Philosophy on Protecting Biodiversity, which we established in September 2010. Basic Philosophy on Protecting Biodiversity We act for the sake of abundant greenery and fresh air. Thinking Behind Our Basic Philosophy (established September 2010) Our society is built upon the many blessing that nature gives us. The source of these blessings is biodiversity. The loss of this biodiversity would hurt our water, food, and other aspects of our life. Daikin's business also has a major effect on biodiversity through our contribution to global warming. To contribute to a sustainable society, we strive to reduce our contribution to global warming throughout our business activities, and to maintain balance in ecosystems so that we can help bring back the abundance of the natural world. Main Efforts In Business Reduction of Greenhouse Gas Emissions throughout Our Business Activities Reduce greenhouse gas emissions throughout our entire business activities, including product development and production, transportation, sales, service, and the supply chain. Outside of Business Protection and Rejuvenation of the Blessings of Nature 1. In the countries and regions in which we do business, we work with governments, residents groups, NGOs, and NPOs in efforts including the protection and rejuvenation of nature. 2. We create new forests on our premises. 3. We support employees in their volunteer work. 4. We provide the public with information and education. 153 Environment Efforts in Nature Preservation Areas Daikin Agrees to Support Environmental Protection on the Shiretoko Peninsula In July 2011, Daikin Industries, the Shiretoko Nature Foundation, and the towns of Shari and Rausu signed an agreement to protect the wilderness of the Shiretoko Peninsula, a UNESCO World Heritage Site. The Shiretoko 100m2 Movement*1 is the first national trust*2 activity in Japan. As part of this, Daikin and the other parties to the agreement have a project to restore a dilapidated riparian forest of mainly Japanese Judas tree and create a river flowing through a tunnel of greenery. Since it is important to restore the spawning grounds of the humpbacked and chum salmon, and increase the number of salt-water trout, a fish peculiar to this region, we are trying to improve the environment of the river. We are aiming to work with the local community on a number of practical initiatives, including the creation of measures to ensure people and brown bears live in harmony, flora and fauna surveys, and field surveys of brown bear movement. *1 Shiretoko 100m2 Movement: This was Japan's first national trust movement, started in 1977 to protect pioneering lands in Hokkaido's Shiretoko Peninsula from development. The movement calls for donations to purchase 100-m2 tracts of land (8,000 yen each). *2 National trust movement: To protect nature from overdevelopment, citizens from near and far donate money to purchase land for preservation. Wild animals in Shiretoko Brown bears Yezo deer Steller's sea eagle Trout Dilapidated riparian forest (in a section of the Shiretoko 100m2 Movement, Iwaobetsu River Basin, Hokkaido) Working to Rejuvenate Forests in Indonesia Since June 2008, Daikin Industries has been working with international NGO Conservation International on a reforestation project in Gunung Gede Pangrango National Park in Java Island to rejuvenate the forest and its ecosystems. This national park is covered with valuable tropical forests that are home to many unique species designated as endangered. But in the last several decades, it has suffered serious damage as land is cleared for agriculture and people cut down trees to support their lifestyle. Survey of endangered species The aim of this project is to protect the remaining forest by planting local species of trees and providing residents with environmental education, thus contributing to the rejuvenation of forests that benefit both people and the environment. Together with local residents, about 200 hectares of land have been reforested as of 2011. The next target is for the rejuvenation of 100 hectares of forest by 2014. The reforestation project is an effort conducted in unison with Daikin customers. Environmental education for residents See Reforestation in Indonesia. (http://www.daikin.com/csr/environment/reforestation/index.html) 154 Environment Efforts at Bases Daikin Ales Aoya Training Center Works to Protect and Rejuvenate Natural Forests on Coastal Dunes and Beaches Daikin Ales Aoya in Tottori Prefecture, Japan is a center for the training of employees who will be active on the world stage. The facility is located at Idegahama, a beach known for its 'whistling sand'. The area is home to a typical coastal vegetation ecosystem: starting from the beach, one can see annual grass give way to perennial grass, and short trees gradually give way to taller trees. However, this Bird's-eye view of Daikin Ales coastal vegetation has been rapidly disappearing in the last decade or two. Aoya When we built this facility here, we began to not just protect these rare beaches and dunes, but also bring back the nature that had been lost so that this coastal ecosystem could once again return to its natural state. We began by surveying the region's vegetation to get a detailed understanding of the geography. Based on this, we made a proposal to plant vegetation. After implementation, we had advice from experts in the monitoring and fostering of the vegetation. Monitoring vegetation In fiscal 2010, the third year of the project, seedlings proliferated from the seeds and cuttings of samples taken at the site and surrounding areas were reintroduced as part of ongoing efforts to rejuvenate the forests and vegetation of the beach. For these efforts, in October 2010, Daikin was selected for inclusion in the list of 100 top companies To restore coastal forests, a contributing to biodiversity, sponsored by the Organization for Landscape fence was constructed to and Urban Green Architecture. protect the seedlings from salt air and sand Daikin Ales Aoya also acts as a multi-purpose training facility, and this Certificate showing that Daikin is one of project will serve to raise environmental awareness of employees coming here. 100 top companies contributing to biodiversity Species on the endangered lists of Tottori Prefecture and the national government Beachwort Siberian sea rosemary Scutellaria strigillosa Heteropappus hispidus These species are effective at resisting invasive species and are important to protecting beach vegetation 155 Environment At Recreational Facility in Nagano, Protecting Vegetation and Scenery Daikin Industries' recreational facility in Nagano Prefecture is located in Chino, 1,500 meters above sea level on the Tateshina Plateau, and on the slope of the Yatsugatake Mountains, one of the few volcanic areas in Japan. The facility is surrounded by rich nature including the evergreen needle-leaf forests stretching from the alpine belt to the subalpine The mountain streams and belt, as well as woods of Erman's Birch and Quercus crispula. The vegetation are preserved in their natural state water in these forests becomes spring water that flows into swamps. The large wingnut trees A particularly interesting feature are the wingnut trees, which are rare in the surrounding resort are a rare sight areas. Daikin is working to preserve these unique trees and the scenery they provide. 156 Environment Supporting Children's Education Daikin Develops Circle of Life Program to Teach Elementary Students About Biodiversity Daikin and international NGO Conservation International have developed a biodiversity education program for elementary schools called Circle of Life. Conservation International is also Daikin's partner in a reforestation project in Indonesia. The program focuses on Daikin's reforestation efforts in Indonesia. The lessons keep children interested and eager as they take part in role-playing and other activities that teach them how changes in ecosystems affect their lives and how their lives in Japan are related to the world's environmental problems. The course covers four lessons in the classroom, and schools can request to have extra lessons taught by Daikin employees. Since April 2010, Daikin has been providing schools all over Japan with free teaching materials and as of the end of March 2011, 34 schools had taken part in the program. We have also sent instructors to lead lessons at 10 schools. Daikin hopes that this program provides an opportunity for young people, the environmental protectors of tomorrow, to act to solve environmental problems with the realization that the Earth is theirs to protect. For details on the Circle of Life environmental education program, see the following website. See Key Activities of Fiscal 2010: Raising Environmental Awareness. (Page 59) See The Circle Of Life (available in Japanese only) （http://www.daikin.co.jp/csr/edu/index.html） Reforestation in Indonesia (http://www.daikin.com/csr/environment/reforestation/index.html) 157 Environment History of Environmental Activities Chemicals Daikin Group Air Condtioning Divisions(Japan) Division(Japan) 1970s Environmental Pollution Control System established Environmental Pollution Control Committee established Environmental Pollution Control Regulations enacted Environmental Month started 1980s Daikin Group Environmental Control Committee established Daikin Group Environmental Management Regulations enacted Began dealing with fluorocarbon problem 1991 Began HFC mass-production 1992 Director responsible for environmental protection and Global Environment Dept.established 1993 Actions Principles on Environmental Protection enacted Environmental Action Plan enacted 1994 Began building environmental management system 1995 Environmental audits launched Released chiller using HFC refrigerant Ceased production of Air conditioner forums launched CFC 1996 Acquired ISO 14001 certification in all Daikin Industries production bases in Japan 1997 Began working towards ISO 14001 certification in overseas production bases 1998 First Environmental Report published Released Super Inverter 60 ultra-energyefficient commercial air conditioner Released HFC multi-purpose air conditioner for buildings, HFC residential air conditioners 1999 Environmental accounting introduced, Established Environmental Meetings launched fluorocarbon destruction facilities 158 Environment Chemicals Daikin Group Air Condtioning Divisions(Japan) Division(Japan) 2000 Start of green procurement Released Super Inverter ZEAS ultraenergy-efficient HFC air conditioner 2001 Environmental Action Plan 2005 enacted Achieved zero waste emissions in Daikin Industries production bases in Japan (machinery divisions) Environmental Meetings held in four regions (Europe, the United States, China, Asia-Oceania) 2002 Environmental Philosohy enacted Began fluorocarbon recovery and destruction business Completed Conversion to HFC refrigerant for all major products (in Japan) 2003 Aquired integrated ISO 14001 certification in Daikin Group in Japan 2004 Achieved zero waste emissions in all Daikin Industries production bases in Japan 2006 Environmental Action Plan 2010 enacted Released heat pump-type hot water heaters and heating systems in 2006 in Europe 2007 Air conditioner forums held in Europe and the United States 2008 Formulated the latter half of the FUSION 10 Started Re: AIRCON Project for strategic management plan, which stresses reforestation in Indonesia proactive contribution to solving Released world’s first VRV system using environmental problems, as well as business CO2 refrigerant expansion Air conditioner forum held worldwide (Europe, the United States., Japan) 2009 Air conditioner forum held in China 2010 The entire Daikin Group in Japan achieved Air conditioner forum held in significantly greater greenhouse gas Asia-Oceania reductions than its target 159 Environment Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2011 −Web version− Responsibility to Stakeholders Responsibility to Stakeholders 161 Business Partners 203 Customers 163 Philosophy on Suppliers 204 Product Quality and Safety 165 Working Closely with Suppliers 206 Customer Satisfaction 172 Green Procurement Guidelines 209 Protecting Customer Information 178 Shareholders and Investors 210 Employees 179 For Shareholders 211 Employee Evaluation and Treatment 182 Information Disclosure Policy 214 Workplace Diversity 183 Communities 215 Work-Life Balance 189 Promoting Art and Culture 217 Labor Management Relations 192 Promoting Sports 219 Occupational Safety and Health 193 Contributing to Education 221 Fostering Human Resources 198 Environmental Contributions to Society 225 A Good Corporate Citizen —Activities in Each Community 227 160 Responsibility to Stakeholders Daikin products such as air conditioners, fluorochemical products, and hydraulic equipment are used by families and industries around the world. We provide products and services that anticipate society's needs. We believe these products must satisfy customers with safety and high quality. Product Quality and Safety Customer Satisfaction Protecting Customer Information Daikin Contact Center Customer satisfaction questionnaires Support seminars for dealers Service engineer offers helpful extra information during maintenance calls (the fiveminutes of extra care standard ) Approximately 40,000 employees work at Daikin bases around the world. The growth of our employees—who sustain our business—is the growth of the Daikin Group. We stress fairness of opportunity and reward for all employees, regardless of age, sex, or nationality in order to make the most of their diverse abilities. We create an environment where they Employee Evaluation and can work in safety and health, and consider their work-life balance. Treatment Workplace Diversity Work-Life Balance Labor Management Relations Interviews based on employee self-assessments Occupational Safety and Labor-management council meetings, labor union council meetings Health Group Management Meeting Fostering Human Resources Respect for Human Rights 161 Responsibility to Stakeholders The supply chain is made up of not only suppliers from whom we directly procure raw materials and parts but also those suppliers further upstream. We build a relationship of mutual growth and prosperity by communicating frequently and continuously with suppliers in order to ensure product quality and safety. A prerequisite to this is fair and honest business dealings. Philosophy on Suppliers Working Closely with Suppliers Green Procurement Meetings for suppliers Award ceremonies for suppliers Guidelines Technology discussions, quality and safety gatherings Quality and environmental audits Help Line for Corporate Ethics We operate on capital provided by approximately 40,000 shareholders. We make the best use of capital to achieve solid profitability and a firm financial base to maximize corporate value and meet shareholder and investor expectations with stable dividends. We provide the necessary information promptly and continuously interact with shareholders and investors. For Shareholders Information Disclosure Policy Ordinary General Meeting of Shareholders Briefings on financial results, briefings for investors Annual Report, business reports Information on Web site Inquiries by telephone and Internet At bases in more than 38 countries, we have a strong desire to form lasting bonds with local communities and economies and make a positive contribution as good corporate citizens. We contribute to regional industry and economy through our business, and ensure that our bases are safe and open to local communities. We encourage each Promoting Art and Culture Daikin base to think and take action that contributes to the community. Promoting Sports Contributing to Education Environmental Contributions to Society Public liaison person at each Daikin base A Good Corporate Citizen Informing local community of emergency disaster drills —Activities in Each Factory tours for local citizens Participation in local groups Community Involvement in local events We strive to reduce greenhouse gas emissions in all business activities to achieve our most important mission: curbing global warming. We are also promoting our green heart philosophy to communities and to future generations through environmental protection activities. Environmental seminars, environmental exhibitions Various forms of environmental PR Environmental education Green procurement briefings 162 Responsibility to Stakeholders With the world's leading technologies in air conditioning and fluorochemicals, the Daikin Group meets society's needs for safe products that offer peace of mind. We also ensure customer satisfaction with advanced support systems. Product Quality and Safety Strict Design Review Ensures Safety: Our Top Priority for Customers Our responsibility goes beyond simply satisfying customers; we believe that we also have a duty to society to offer products and services that are (See page 165) safe, high quality, and environmentally conscious. Product Quality and Safety Policy Quality is a top priority during the development and production stages in Product Quality Management Structure our Air Conditioning Manufacturing Division and Chemicals Division, both Quality Control System of which have obtained the ISO 9001 (quality management system) Quality Control Process certification. We also provide customers with the information they need to use our products safely. Cooperation with Suppliers Employee Education And we continue to gather information on products in use in the market so Improving Quality During Development we can improve their quality. Development Process Raises Quality Handling Product Accidents Product Safety Voluntary Action Guidelines Disclosing Product Information Introduction of Universal Design Example of Universal Design 163 Responsibility to Stakeholders Customer Satisfaction Giving the Best Possible After Sales Service (Speed, Accuracy, and Friendliness) is Our Basic Policy to Pursue Customer Satisfaction The Daikin Contact Center is open 24 hours a day, every day of the year to take repair requests and offer technical advice. We are also rapidly (See page 172) working on further enhancement of after sales service around the world for handling customer inquiries and thus achieve a service system geared Customer Satisfaction Policy to customer needs. Customer Response and Support System Daikin Global Service Network The many opinions and requests received by the center are reflected in our product development and service so that we can stay one step ahead Conduct of Customer Surveys of customer needs. Using Customer Opinions Number of Inquiries to the Contact Center (Japan) Employee Education Support for Dealers Training for Distributors Protecting Customer Information Protecting Customer Information in Every Way We established the Personal Information Protection Rules and Guidelines to properly protect and manage the range of customer (See page 178) information that we gather through repair requests and other means. Each division and group company has a personal information manager and carries out a variety of employee education on personal information. 164 Responsibility to Stakeholders Product Quality and Safety Policy We Operate under the Belief that Customers Are Buying Quality With this in mind, we strive to stay ahead of customer needs by providing high-quality products and services based on our corporate policies of Absolute Credibility , Enterprising Management , and Harmonious Personal Relations . Our quality control is based on the idea that the added value we give to products is quality, and that this quality is what customers are buying. And each Daikin employee constantly puts quality ahead of everything else. Daikin Group service quality policy The ultimate in quality service through speed, accuracy, and good manners 1. Offer service that meets customer needs while complying with laws 2. Establish quality targets and revise these as necessary 3. Continuously improve the effectiveness of our quality management system Product Quality Management Structure Establishing an ISO 9001-Compliant Quality Assurance System Company divisions build ISO 9001-compliant quality assurance systems so that they can maintain our high levels of product quality and ensure proper management of each department, such as development, materials and parts procurement, and production. We are also improving quality at our contract manufacturers. Each division is audited twice a year so that we can assess our quality situation and if necessary further improve it. Based on our annual Daikin Group policy, each division formulates its key quality measures and targets, which are used to create a detailed quality program (fiscal year action plan) for all stages including design and development, materials and parts procurement, and production. Quality Control System 165 Responsibility to Stakeholders Quality Control Process Cooperation with Suppliers Efforts with Suppliers to Raise Product Quality and Safety (Responsibility to Business Partners) (Page 207) Employee Education We Hold Daily Meetings to Raise Quality Awareness The Daikin Group has numerous ways to educates employees in quality. Since 2004, the 19th of every month has been quality day, when each workplace in the Air Conditioning Manufacturing Division holds discussions on ways to improve quality. Since November 2008, each division has held 10-minute daily quality meetings. These meetings are now an established way of keeping employees thinking of new ways to pursue quality and sharing up-to-date information of quality matters. Improving Quality During Development Only Those Products That Pass Our Strict Design Review for Product Safety Are Manufactured In fiscal 2005, the Air Conditioning Manufacturing Division reformed its development process with a stricter, more segmented design review (DR)*. First, the personnel in charge of the relevant divisions inspect the proposed products for conformity to Daikin standards using the four criteria of an individual design review (DR): product quality, monotsukuri (the art of manufacturing), cost-effectiveness, and compliance. Products that pass the individual DR are then subject to a gate DR: six stages of design reviews and to-market reviews by top management. Only those that pass all reviews make it to market. In August 2006, we further raised our product safety standards and now conduct reviews to ensure that products are absolutely safe to use and problems with previous models have been fixed. 166 Responsibility to Stakeholders Our next goal is to make even safer and higher quality products by ensuring that our development process detects problems and solutions early on and helps us predict potential problems during product use. * Design review: In a process involving the entire Daikin organization, products under development are assessed for quality of design and all other processes leading up to product realization. Only those that pass each stage can move forward. Development Process Raises Quality Handling Product Accidents Protocol for Promptly Handling Product Accidents Daikin products are designed based on quality standards and design standards that ensure that, even if users err in operating the machinery or use it beyond recommended limits, there is no danger for the users; and even if there is a product accident, the danger to the user is minimized. In case of a product accident, we have systems in place that allow us to quickly relay the necessary information and handle the problem, and minimize the impact on the product users and the general public. We also place top priority on detecting product problems before they lead to a major accident. When the cause of a minor accident is discovered, we determine whether this could also cause a major accident and we reflect this into the development of future products. 167 Responsibility to Stakeholders Some Recalled Air Conditioner Had Not Been Inspected or Repaired Daikin Industries recalled air conditioners manufactured between January 1995 and March 1998 (for free inspection and repair). But although the products had supposedly been inspected and repaired, there was fire damage inside one of the recalled outdoor air conditioner units in November 2009. An investigation into the cause revealed that a worker at a repair outlet labeled some units as repaired when in fact they had not been. The products that had been in the care of this worker were once again inspected and repaired, and Daikin questioned all repair outlets to ensure there were no other such instances. As well, all repair staff were given exhaustive training in the repair work protocol and exactly what is involved in repair. We will review our management systems so that we can offer customers an even higher quality of service. See (available in Japanese only) (http://www.daikin.co.jp/taisetsu/2010/100209/index.html) Some Air Purifiers Recalled for Free Inspection and Repair Three models of residential air purifiers manufactured by Daikin Industries between August 2006 and July 2009 presented the danger of giving off smoke or fire due to a problem with the electric dust collecting section. And air purifiers with humidifying and dehumidifying functions manufactured between August 2007 and January 22, 2010 could possibly give off extreme heat if foreign particles became attached to the dehumidifying element. Daikin informed customers of the models in questions through press releases and announcements in the mass media, and Daikin engineers conducted inspections and repairs free of charge. Free Inspection and Repair Customers owning the models in question should phone this number. 0120-330-696 (24 hours a day, every day; toll free in Japan only) For details on free inspections and repairs, see (available in Japanese only) (http://www.daikin.co.jp/taisetsu/2010/100409/index.html) Product Safety Voluntary Action Guidelines The Daikin Group (hereinafter, the Group ) believes that its most important management task is to provide products that satisfy customers from the standpoint of our customer when designing and making products that have a high level of safety and quality. To this end, we have formulated the following basic policies on product safety in efforts to provide ever-greater levels of safety and quality in products. 1. Legal Compliance The Group shall observe the Consumer Product Safety Law and other product-related laws and safety standards. 2. Ensuring Product Safety The Group shall establish a quality management system and execute measures to maintain product safety in all processes extending from product design to production, sales, and after sales service. And the Group shall display appropriate, easy-to-understand instructions and warnings on products and in instruction manuals to ensure the safe use of our products by our customers. 168 Responsibility to Stakeholders 3. Collecting and Providing Product Accident Information The Group shall actively collect information from our customers concerning accidents involving Daikin products and quickly report this information to our executive management while providing customers with suitable information. 4. Immediate and Appropriate Response to Product Accidents In the unlikely event of a safety problem occurring in the use our product, our first and primary concern shall be for the safety of our customers, and we shall take immediate actions to minimize and prevent the occurrence of a serious accident. Actions to be taken immediately shall include repairing or replacing the product in question, publicizing the problem through the appropriate media, and submitting a statutory report on the problem to the relevant authorities. All relevant people outside the company, including sales personnel, will be informed of the situation. 5. Product Safety Promotion The Group shall establish a quality assurance system that it uses to ensure product safety and quality. We shall ascertain information related to the safety and quality in the marketplace and provide accurate feedback to personnel within our company in order to reflect it into future product design and manufacture. 6. Education, Training, and Monitoring The Group shall constantly make every effort to promote the safety and quality of our product through widespread education and training in laws and regulations within the company on product safety. We also shall regularly monitor work to ensure product safety is being achieved. Disclosing Product Information Air Conditioning Business: Providing Information that Prevents Accidents from Product Degradation The Consumer Product Safety Law obligates companies to design products for safety and provide consumers with information and warnings so that household product accidents can be avoided. Based on the failsafe* philosophy, Daikin's system of checks ensures that customer safety is the top priority in design and that design review (DR) leads to safe products. Our home page also provides consumers with information including product model numbers and year of products already on the market. In April 2009, the Ministerial Ordinance of technical standards for the Electrical Appliance and Material Safety Law went into effect. We abide by this ordinance by placing labels on our residential air conditioners and ventilation fans (which are covered by this law) that state the duration of product use. In Japan, about one-third of the product accidents are the result of improper product operation. Therefore, to prevent accidents, we believe it is important to provide customers with accurate, easy-to-understand information on using products. The Air Conditioning Division conducts product labeling in compliance with industry guidelines, such as the Guidelines for Labeling Household Products for Safe Use (4th edition, revised March 2009), published by the Association for Electric Home Appliances, and the Revisions Labeling Procedures (March 2010), published by the Japan Refrigeration and Air Conditioning Industry Association. * Failsafe: Checks and measures are in place to ensure safety in case of a breakdown of mechanisms or systems. 169 Responsibility to Stakeholders The Eco-Cute Easy User Guide Operation Manual Won the Excellence Aw ard in the Japan Manual Contest 2009 In the Japan Manual Contest 2009, the Daikin Eco-Cute Easy Guide won an Excellence Award in the Sheet Manuals/Package Manuals category. Why the Eco-Cute Easy User Guide Won The guide uses illustrations of the actual operation panel so users know exactly what buttons to press. The simple color coding makes it easy for any family member to learn how to use the Eco-Cute in a hands-on manner. Daikin Operation Manuals Have Been Recognized by STC The operation manual for household room air conditioners made for use in other countries was recognized in the 2010 STC-ETC Technical Publication and Online Communication Competition for being easy to read and easy to understand. Operation manual included with product Note: STC = Society for Technical Communication; a global NGO for research into technical communications, established in 1953. Chemicals Business: Holding Workshops on Fluorochemical products While the fluorochemical products produced by the Chemicals Division are highly advanced and highly functional materials, pressing them can sometimes require specialized methods. Not only do representatives of the Technical Service Department visit our customers to explain about our products, but we also conduct customer-oriented training seminars, titled the Fluorine Classroom, to explain about the special properties of fluorine materials and the guide them on the manufacturing process using the facilities and equipment available to the company. Our website includes the material safety data sheet (MSDS) and technical documents, as well as information on how to spot imitation products and precautions regarding the return of high pressure gas cylinders. 170 Responsibility to Stakeholders Introduction of Universal Design Developing Products that Anyone Can Use Easily Daikin incorporates universal design (UD) into product development to enable even the elderly and physically disabled to operate products with ease. In fiscal 2007, we teamed up with NPO Universal Design of Citizen Network to offer training in universal design. In this training, engineers learn the principles of universal design through discussions with general customers and participation in activities mimicking the challenges facing the physically disabled. In April 2009, our product developers held discussion sessions with NPO Universal Design of Citizen Network to discuss the Eco-Cute heat pump water heater, and the results of these talks are now reflected in new product development. Universal design is central to the concept of monotsukuri (the art of manufacturing), because it involves designing a product so that everyone, no matter what their age or physique, can use it with ease. We are continuing steady efforts in universal design training so that the concept becomes second nature to all engineers. Example of Universal Design Simpler Remote Controller Makes the Most of the Energy Efficiency of the Eco-Cute Heat Pump Water Heater Introduced in February 2010, the Daikin Eco-Cute X-Series has energy efficiency among the highest in the industry as well as an eco-confirmation function that helps users operate the product in the manner that is most energy efficient for their operating conditions. The display on the remote controller shows helpful advice and the effects of energy saving functions. This remote controller boasts the industry's first full-color display, which enables any user to easily understand and operate the product. For example, when the Eco-Cute is dispensing hot water, red lettering warns users of this high temperature. This means users get both aural and visual information and are thus doubly safe in product use. Braille Easy-Operation Guide So that the visually impaired can also use our air conditioning units, Daikin Industries has braille easy-operation guides explaining the basic points of operating our air conditioners, which we offer free of charge. An audio version of this simple operation guide is also available on CD, and can be ordered through our website. 171 Responsibility to Stakeholders Customer Satisfaction Policy Creating New Value by Anticipating the Future Needs of Customers Our group philosophy states that our mission, and the essence of our existence, is to identify and realize our customers' future needs and dreams, even those that they themselves may not yet be aware of. We believe that providing high quality products, materials, and service will not only improve convenience and comfort for customers, but will also increase the level of customer satisfaction. Based on these principles, each division of Daikin Group formulates its policies according to the particular needs and circumstances of customers in order to improve customer satisfaction. The Air Conditioning Division's customers are end users and distributors. The division's basic policies for ensuring customer satisfaction are stay ahead of customers' needs and present new products suggested by the sales division for end user satisfaction, and stay ahead of the times and one step ahead of our competitors by offering a tailored solution for the satisfaction of distributors. The After Sales Service Division of the Air Conditioning Division, which bears responsibility for product maintenance, has the basic policy of the ultimate in quality service through speed, accuracy, and good manners and is working to increase the skills of its service engineers and raise the level of their response to customers. The Chemicals Division has identified improvement of quality, stable supply, appropriate cost, and response to needs (development of new products) as the main points to increase customer satisfaction, and aims to gain greater trust and satisfaction from customers by continually assessing information regarding the level of customer satisfaction and making improvements accordingly. Customer Response and Support System Air Conditioning Division: Building a Worldwide Customer Support System The Daikin Contact Center is open 24 hours a day, every day of the year to take repair requests and offer technical advice to customers around the world. We are striving to enhance its service quality to ensure customers are satisfied with the responses they get from the Contact Center. With more and more of Daikin's product sales occurring outside of Japan, we must offer top Shanghai Service Center after-sales service capable of meeting the increasing demands of an ever widening customer base. That means taking our basic service quality policy—speed, accuracy, and good manners—to other countries by using the meticulous service know-how we have built up in Japan to satisfy the need for quality that is common to people around the world. We have increased the number of service bases in countries like Spain, Singapore, and Italy through the integration of the service system of O.Y.L. Industries Bhd, which Daikin acquired in 2006. In North America and China, employees at O.Y.L company McQuay International are trained in Daikin's service quality management system to ensure the highest level of quality. 172 Responsibility to Stakeholders In 2010, we established support systems in Brazil and Mexico. We will continue to enhance customer satisfaction in after sales service by establishing customer contact centers at all service bases and offering local language support. Daikin Global Service Network Chemicals Division: Providing Information Through Various Forums As the products of the Chemicals Division are materials from which the products of customer businesses are manufactured, inquiries about these chemical products come mainly from industry researchers and developers. Firstly, the sales representative of Daikin Industries acts as a contact and responds to inquiries in cooperation with the divisions of technical service, research and development, and quality assurance, To further strengthen trust between our company and customer businesses, we hold yearly exchange meetings between top-level personnel, such as the Difreon Gas Meeting and the GratitudeGratitude-to-Customers meeting to-Customers Meeting . Also, to help our customers benefit more from the products and technology of Daikin Industries, we hold a twice-yearly study seminar on fluorochemical products directed toward media outlets, by which we provide information to our customers. Conduct of Customer Surveys Customer Surveys Go Towards Improving Products and Services Daikin Group divisions conduct customer surveys to enhance customer satisfaction. By constantly surveying and analyzing the voice of customers, we can further boost the quality of our service. The Air Conditioning Sales Division includes a questionnaire with products that allows us to determine customer needs and levels of satisfaction, and also includes a questionnaire on its home page to collect user opinions about our products. The After Sales Service Division conducts annual surveys to determine the level of customer satisfaction with our after-sales service. As a result of efforts to complete repairs in a single visit, improve repair techniques through training, get better at dealing with customers and make other such improvements, all under our slogan of Customer first, we have been able to gradually improve customer satisfaction since fiscal 2007. 173 Responsibility to Stakeholders In the Chemicals Division, we distribute questionnaires once a year that help us boost customer satisfaction. Customer opinions are analyzed and appropriate measures are created. The results of the fiscal 2010 survey showed that as customer demand for products picked up significantly, there was increased customer expectation regarding product delivery. Thus, we will continue to make a concerted effort to respond rapidly to inquiries regarding product delivery, to improve the level of customer satisfaction. High Appraisal for Customer Satisfaction Daikin Third in 2010 Nikkei Business Ranking of After-Sales Service in Residential Air Conditioner Category Daikin Second in Ranking of Manufacturer Air Conditioner Repair During Summer Peak (according to RIC, publisher of home electronics magazines). Daikin Australia Awarded the Most Satisfied Customer Award in the 2010 Canster Blue air conditioner survey Using Customer Opinions Customer Inquiries Used in Improving Products and Developing New Ones We have implemented a system for recording all telephone requests and complaints from customers in a database. Information regarding the opinions and requests that sales representatives obtain from customers is shared among the Quality Division and relevant departments, who investigate causes and establish countermeasures to improve products and services. The 500,000 or so technical inquiries that the Contact Center gets from customers each year enable us to make early detection of issues we face in the market and hold clues to product improvement. The information obtained from customer inquiries, including common key words and their frequency, are stored in a database that is shared with the relevant Daikin divisions and used to solve potential quality problems. Information in the database is also used in the planning of new products. To stay one step ahead with products that meet customers' underlying needs, we explore new product concepts from customers. Number of Inquiries to the Contact Center (Japan) 174 Responsibility to Stakeholders Employee Education Year-Long Training and Service Competitions Among Daikin Bases The Daikin Group strives to improve the quality of service by teaching employees the necessary knowledge and techniques. Besides basic training in service quality, a variety of training courses and license-certification course are offered to each management level and job description. The After Sales Service Division has the year-long Service University training program. Just like in university, participants can choose the courses right for their job. They also have regular tests to ensure they are retaining what they have learned. At service bases across Japan, teams are created that compete against each other in the annual Service League tournament. There, teams are quantitatively judged and awarded on the speed, accuracy, and good manners that constitute our after sales service policy. This makes for a fun way to raise our ability to offer customer satisfaction. Skills and Customer-interaction Training for Service Engineers Service engineers' individual technical expertise is crucial to providing quality service. Since fiscal 2006, we have been holding workshops and giving technical assessment tests to all service engineers. Our rule is that service engineers must be certified with a minimum level of skill before they can do repair work alone. To further improve their abilities, since fiscal 2008 we have been holding training for chief engineers and we currently have 830 employees who have passed our chief engineer test. We also provide similar training for engineers at dealer ships. To help service engineers better deal with customers, in fiscal 2007 we started working with outside experts to hold service etiquette classes. We will continue to give our service engineers the technical skills and people skills they need to make Daikin No. 1 in service in the eyes of customers. Training for Distributors (Page 176) The Chemicals Division: Sharing Broad Knowledge About Product Features and Their Target Fields, Etc. The sales representatives of the Chemicals Division need to listen to researchers and product developers of customer businesses about the product functions they seek and offer them the ideal products for their needs. In order to optimize product functions in accordance with the circumstances of customer businesses, it is essential to have diverse knowledge of such things as processing methods, amount of additives, and temperatures. For this purpose, the Chemicals Division holds regular meetings covering business, research, and manufacturing to share not only business information, but also knowledge regarding products. The Division also makes opportunities for the sharing of superior business skills within the Division, and makes use of the Fluorine Classroom customer education program as an opportunity for personnel to educate themselves and deepen their knowledge. The Chemicals Division will continue to train personnel so that they acquire a deep knowledge on the use fluorine in various business situations. 175 Responsibility to Stakeholders Support for Dealers Providing Solution Sales Support for Distributors Via Our Website and Other Means The Air Conditioning Division provides distributors with solution sales support. Through our website, distributors have constant access to technical information and 10 years of information on all products, as well as software for making product and service estimates and for making CO2 reduction calculations and other energyand cost-related calculations. The site is also optimized for use with a mobile phone, so distributors can access it while they are out visiting a customer. They can also create proposals easily with their mobile phones. We encourage distributors acquire the Eco Test certification (Certification Test for Environmental Specialist), as do members of Daikin's sales divisions. In this way, we help them become more eco-wise and strengthen their consulting ability. We also publish information journals to provide specialists and dealerships with useful information such as company profiles, market trends, installation case studies, and explanations of industry laws. In May 2009, we formed the existing technical support departments into the Customer Support Center. Our aim was to strengthen technical capabilities in solution sales by such efforts as development of various support software, support for development of environmental business, and energy solution sales support. In April 2011, we made consolidations among our 20 sales companies throughout Japan to form 10 consolidated companies, and strengthened our distributor support system. The Cyber Support System of our Customer Support Center offers solution sales support for distributors 24 hours a day, 365 days a year. Training for Distributors 51 Courses Available for Acquiring Air Conditioning Skills Daikin Industries has five training centers around Japan where we hold a variety of courses so that distributors can learn design, installation, and service techniques. The Tsukuba Training Center in Tsukuba City, Ibaraki Prefecture, also contains the Solution Plaza where distributors can first observe the latest models before undergoing the relevant training. With the goal of offering customers service that is practical, easy to understand, and pleasant, the center uses the latest simulation machinery to offer realistic practice, as well as electronic Tsukuba Training Center blackboards and videos teaching materials, along with a range of other state-of-the-art teaching aids. Training for distributors includes systematic step-up training to improve trainees' levels, solution training that helps distributors meet their customers' needs, and certification classes. There are a total of 51 courses. Electronic blackboards From fiscal 2011, we commenced the Service Diagnostics Advanced Course, and to meet the broad needs of our distributors, we also introduced two more new courses and renewed four previous courses. 176 Responsibility to Stakeholders Environmental Solutions Training To promote efforts in solving environmental problems, we are conducting five courses in environmental solutions. Starting in fiscal 2008, we have been distributing eco-booklets to trainees in all courses. The eco-booklets contain general knowledge on global warming and ozone layer destruction, handling fluorocarbons, and steps to preventing global warming, which is expanded on in the courses to raise awareness of the importance of environmental protection. In fiscal 2010, we conducted the Environmental Solutions Proposal Seminar for promotion of environmental business activities, through which we helped 3,098 personnel in the 931 eco-booklet distributor subsidiaries of our 20 sales companies to gain a deeper understanding of the revised Energy Saving Act law and subsidies. 177 Responsibility to Stakeholders Protecting Customer Information Personal Information Managers and Thorough Employee Education The Daikin Group is entrusted with a range of customer information including data on repair requests. Because we consider it an important responsibility to protect this information, we have established the Personal Information Protection Rules and Guidelines, and each division and Group company has a personal information manager. Our Compliance Action Guidelines state our policy of properly handling personal information, which we implement through company-wide education and training aimed at the highest level of personal information security. The After Sales Service Division, in particular, takes extensive measures to prevent leakage of customer information, as it handles personal information, such as maintenance requests from customers, on a daily basis. Measures for Information Protection FY Approach Encrypting of all information on PCs and recording media that is taken off company premises 2005 Locking of PCs in company offices Special tools for employees to properly erase data on PCs that will be discarded 2006 Tools for encrypting all attachments to email going outside the company. 2008 Remote locking function for mobile phones 178 Responsibility to Stakeholders The Daikin Group's management are people-centered in the belief that people are the source of a company's competitiveness. We believe in the unlimited potential of every person and that the sum of the potential and talent of our diverse people forms the pillars of our company operations. By integrating the characteristics and ideas of our diverse range of employees, we can energize our company and strengthen our competitiveness. The Daikin Group is striving to build new corporate value through a strategy of management diversity. Please refer to collected performance data related to responsibility to employees. Data (Page 243) Employee Evaluation and Treatment Fairness of Opportunity and Reward The Daikin Group offers fairness of opportunity and reward : a workplace (See page 182) where employees are rewarded for putting their motivation to work and Employee Evaluation and Treatment Policy taking every opportunity for success. Employee Evaluation and Treatment Job Placement Workplace Diversity A Workplace Where Everyone Can Contribute The Daikin Group believes it is our people who make us competitive. A (See page 183) company can only grow stronger by having a diverse range of Workplace Diversity Policy employees—men and women of all ages, nationalities, races, and levels Employee Composition (Daikin of occupational experience—working within an organization that is Industries only) conducive to mutual understanding of one another's distinct values and that allows everyone to shoot for a lofty goal. Putting More Women into Management Positions Our Group Compliance Guidelines state that while respecting diverse Hiring Women values and approaches to work, we shall mutually accept our respective Number of Women Periodically Hired; differences, act in harmony, gather the abilities we possess, and strive to Percentage of All Employees (Daikin Industries only) be a Group in which each member expresses his or her ambitions and then takes bold actions with great passion and perseverance to realize Re-employment of Retired Employees those ambitions. Number of Re-employed Workers & Rate of Re-employment (Daikin Industries only) 179 Responsibility to Stakeholders Employment of People with Disabilities Number of Disabled People Employed (Daikin Industries and domestic group companies) External Awards Promotion of Local Personnel at Overseas Bases Diversity Education for Employees Work-Life Balance Full Range of Childcare Leave and Childcare Support Systems Daikin Industries stresses a work life balance for employees. We have a range of work systems that allow employees to work flexible duties and (See page 189) flexible schedules. Work-Life Balance Policy The company has established an action plan for helping employees with Helping Employees Match Work Schedule children continue both work and home duties with peace of mind and has with Lifestyle been certified as a company complying with the Law for Measures to Number of Employees Leaving, Support the Development of the Next Generation. We have been Employee Turnover (Daikin Industries particularly active in urging male employees to take advantage of our only) systems for childcare leave and childcare support. Support for Childcare Number of Employees Taking Leave Before and After Child Birth and Number Taking Childcare Leave (Daikin Industries only) Details of Second Action Plan Support for Family Care Number Taking Family Care Leave (Daikin Industries only) Other Employee Benefit Systems (some are abridged) Labor Management Relations Frank Exchanges of Opinion Create Favorable Labor-Management Relations Daikin Industries believes that cooperative labor management relations are the foundation of company management. We therefore place the (See page 192) utmost emphasis on equality of labor and management as well as mutual trust between both sides. Labor Management Relations Policy Respecting the Rights of Workers Dialog with Employees 180 Responsibility to Stakeholders Occupational Safety and Health Keeping the Workplace Safe and Employees Physically and Mentally Fit (See page 193) The Daikin Group's Group Compliance Guidelines state our top priority of Occupational Safety and Health Policy ensuring a safe, healthy workplace where employees can work in peace Frequency Rate, Severity Rate (Daikin of mind. To achieve this, we constantly strive to create a zero accident Industries only) workplace where Daikin employees and subcontract employees work Number of Accidents Resulting in Time safely, both for their own sake and to instill a feeling of safety in the minds off Work (Daikin Industries only) of residents around our factories. Occupational Safety and Health Management Structure System for Occupational Safety and Health Employee Education and Training Employee Health Management Mental Health Shortening Working Hours Percentage of Employees Taking All Paid Leave (Daikin Industries only) Average Hours of Overtime per Employee (Daikin Industries only) Fostering Human Resources Training Employees to Take the World Stage The Daikin Group philosophy states that the cumulative growth of all (See page 198) group members, regardless of nationality or company, serves the Philosophy foundation for the group's development. Based on the belief that people Education Systems grow through work experience, the Daikin Group develops employee Education System capabilities through on-the-job training (OJT)*1. We also supplement this with off-the-job training (Off JT)*2, such as the Daikin Leadership Passing on Skills Development Program for next generation executives, the Daikin Passing on Skills at Overseas Bases Business School (D-BS) for executive management candidates of Fostering Young Engineers and overseas bases. We also provide opportunities for independent learning Technicians through language training and correspondence courses. Spurring the Creation of Intellectual Property *1 OJT: Employees learn and acquire the skills, knowledge, and degree of commitment required of their positions while performing their jobs. Number of Patent Applications (Daikin *2 Off JT: Employees study outside of their workplaces in order to acquire the Industries only) knowledge and skills needed for their jobs. Respect for Human Rights Basic Policy of Respect for Human Rights and Diversity, and Compliance with Labor Laws Daikin Industries does all it can in educating employees about human rights so that we can establish a corporate group free of discrimination (See page 31) where everyone's rights are respected. 181 Responsibility to Stakeholders Employee Evaluation and Treatment Policy The Daikin Group offers fairness of opportunity and reward : a workplace where employees are rewarded for putting their motivation to work and taking every opportunity for success. Employee Evaluation and Treatment Pursuing Fairness of Opportunity and Reward In fiscal 2001, we eliminated standardized wage scales based on age and seniority, along with uniform pay raises. Instead, we switched to a compensation system that rewards performance, not age or seniority. Our performance evaluation focuses on how well employees improve their abilities. This evaluation also looks at job results in three categories called achievements, challenging spirit, and growth. To ensure even greater fairness of evaluation, managers evaluate their staff only after consulting with other managers. Employees are also evaluated based on their level of contribution to company successes and to the organization as a whole. In 2002, this compensation system was extended to include Daikin Group companies in Japan. We are planning to create unified worldwide guidelines that cover our philosophy of performance-based pay and detail how job results should be reflected in pay. This will give the entire Group a fair, credible compensation system. Daikin Europe Selected as a Top Employer Daikin Europe N.V. was chosen one of the Top Employers* of 2010 for its outstanding human resource systems. Recognized for its working conditions, evaluation systems, and programs for employee education and training, Daikin Europe received its sixth Top Employers selection in a row. * Top Employer: An award sponsored by CRF International, a company conducting research into the best practices in human resources around the world. Job Placement Creating Opportunities to Understand Employee Circumstances Whenever possible, Daikin Industries talks with employees and assigns them to departments and sections where they want to work. All new employees are interviewed to determine their hopes and desired area of work in order to ensure they are placed in the most appropriate jobs. Every year, employees fill out their own record of work, which includes a column for free comments about health, family, and job positions desired. When we consider transferring an employee, we look at these comments and talk to them in efforts to ensure, whenever possible, that their job desires and spirit of challenge is reflected in the posts they are assigned to. For employees who wish to work overseas, we have established a practical training system to support employees in foreign positions. We will continue to build rewarding workplaces for our employees by matching their dreams and goals with those of Daikin. 182 Responsibility to Stakeholders Workplace Diversity Policy The Daikin Group believes it is our people who make us competitive. A company can only grow stronger by having a diverse range of employees—men and women of all ages, nationalities, races, and years of experience in the company —working within an organization that is conducive to mutual understanding of one another's distinct values and that allows everyone to shoot for a lofty goal. Our Group Compliance Guidelines state our aim of becoming a group is passionate, strong, and forward-thinking and in which there is respect for a diverse range of values and work philosophies, and in which employees respect their differences and cooperate to pool their strengths so that each person can achieve his or her dream. The Daikin Group's employee make-up is becoming increasingly diverse, with a greater number of non-Japanese and women in our ranks. Since introducing our rehiring system in 1991, we have been making greater use of Daikin's experienced retirees. Employee Composition (Daikin Industries only) The end of March The end of March The end of March The end of March The end of March 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Male Female Male Female Male Female Male Female Male Female Number of employees 6,245 695 6,360 816 6,452 868 6,558 897 6,717 961 Average range of 19.0 12.0 19.0 12.0 18.9 12.0 17.9 10.8 17.1 9.96 services (years) Average age 42.2 34.3 41.9 32.9 41.6 32.8 41.8 33.6 41.8 34.2 Number of managers 958 9 969 12 925 13 886 14 936 16 Number of board 41 1 41 1 47 1 45 1 44 1 members Number of foreign 27 28 12 28 12 27 16 30 21 nationals Note: Number currently employed Putting More Women into Management Positions Steady Progress in Promoting Women to Managerial Positions Daikin Industries strives to create identical working conditions for men and women because our goal is to use the talents of both sexes to the fullest. In 2001, we eliminated the barrier between general clerical work and management track jobs so that female employees have more career possibilities. We have also systematically increased the number of female managers from two in fiscal 2001 to 16 in fiscal 2010. We will continue to take measures, such as changing workplace attitudes about women taking a key role in company management and formulating strategies to raise career awareness among female employees, so as to encourage more ambitious and talented women to play a bigger part in company management. 183 Responsibility to Stakeholders Hiring Women Increasing Percentage of Female Employees As of March 2011, women accounted for 12.5% of all employees of Daikin Industries, an increase of 0.5% over 2010. In the past, job applicants for technical and skills positions were mostly men, which kept the ratio of female employees low. We therefore set a goal of achieving the national average, 12%, for female employees as a percentage of total by fiscal 2009. As a result of proactive efforts to hire women, we achieved this goal in 2008, a full year ahead of schedule. Number of Women Periodically Hired; Percentage of All Employees (Daikin Industries only) Hosting the 7th Women's Netw orking Forum In August 2010, a total of eight companies, including Daikin Industries, hosted the 7th Women's Networking Forum. The purpose of the forum was to establish a women's network extending beyond our own company whereby women in the industry will be encouraged to be proactive in further advancing their personal skills and leadership abilities, which will also benefit the organizations they are a part of. There were The Woman's Networking approximately 500 attendees from 56 companies, including about 40 of our own Forum personnel. Following an interview-style key-note address entitled Self-leadership: taking action for my organization's future and my own, participants then spilt into separate groups to discuss various topics of interest, such as leadership that involves an organization, off-site meetings for those with subordinates, and considering the optimal balance between work and child-rearing. The participants were able to share their day-to-day concerns and strengthen connections through these workshops. 184 Responsibility to Stakeholders Re-employment of Retired Employees Re-employment System Makes the Most of Experienced Employees In 2001, Daikin became one of the first companies in Japan to introduce a re-employment system in which retirees wishing to participate can work until they are 65, thus providing an opportunity for them to make the most of their skills and knowledge. Since introducing this system, over 100 have been re-employed each year. In fiscal 2010, there were 535 retirees working under this system at Daikin. Fourteen of these re-employed veterans have been assigned to overseas posts so that they can impart their superior skills and know-how to our bases in other countries. In fiscal 2006, all group companies in Japan introduced this re-employment system to comply with Japan's Revised Law Concerning Stabilization of Employment of Older Persons. Those applying for this system may work until they are 65, with their working hours and pay scale decided on by labor and management. The contribution of these experienced workers is becoming more important with Japan's declining birthrate and aging population. We plan to place these workers in positions that are best for them by considering their requests and expertise and by having them consult with their superiors. Number of Re-employed Workers & Rate of Re-employment (Daikin Industries only) History of Daikin's Re-employment System 1979 Retirement age extended from 55 to 60. 1991 Introduction of re-employment system for employees up to 63. 2001 Age raised from 63 to 65. 2004 Senior Skill Specialist contract employee system introduced. 2005 Experience worker revitalization project started. 2006 System introduced at Daikin Group companies in Japan in 2006. 185 Responsibility to Stakeholders Employment of People with Disabilities Hiring More People with Disabilities across the Entire Group The Daikin Group strives to hire the disabled based on its policy of providing opportunities for disabled people to grow personally and make contributions to society through production activities. In 1993, based on the Act on Employment Promotion etc. of Persons with Disabilities, Daikin Industries established Daikin Sunrise Settsu Co., Ltd., a cooperative venture with the Osaka Prefecture and Settsu City governments. Daikin Sunrise Settsu (Japan) This venture gives people with disabilities greater opportunity to make the most of their skills at workplaces designed specifically with employment of the disabled in mind. Including the employment of disabled persons at many group companies and expanding employment of disabled persons at special subsidiary companies, we are increasing the disabled employment ratio for Daikin Group as a whole. In June 2009, Daikin Sunrise Settsu's new plant was established as another step in hiring more disabled. The duties of New plant of Daikin Sunrise these employees have also expanded from the processing and assembly of machine Settsu parts and the manufacture of chemicals, to computer assisted design and the publication of documents. Disabled persons form the nucleus of the workforce at the company, and as of March 2011, the company has 89 disabled employees who work side-by-side with able-bodied fellow workers. Number of Disabled People Employed (Daikin Industries and domestic group companies*3) *1 Legally, 1 severely disabled person employed is counted as 2 disabled persons. *2 Employment rate = number of disabled persons employed / number of persons employed. *3 Disabled employment rate for only Daikin Industries until FY2006 and for the entire Daikin Group from FY2007. The Slogans of Daikin Sunrise Settsu 1. Creating economic independence through individual effort and teamwork 2. Contributing to personal growth and community development through manufacturing 3. Creating a company in which employees, their families, and the region can take pride 186 Responsibility to Stakeholders External Awards Model Improved Workplace Employing People with Disabilities, sponsored by the Japan Organization for Employment of Persons with Disabilities with the support of the Ministry of Health Labour and Welfare First Place Award (Labour Minister's Award, 1998) Outstanding Achievement Award (2002, 2003) Encouragement Prize (2005) First Asahi Corporate Citizenship Award (2004) Businesses and Individuals that Provide Employment Opportunities for People with Disabilities Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare Award (2009, 2010) Daikin Sunrise Settsu Receives the Minister of Health, Labour and Welfare Aw ard for the 2nd Time in Tw o Years Kinmaru Goto, plant manager of Daikin Sunrise Settsu Co., Ltd. (in Osaka Prefecture), received the Fiscal 2010 Minister of Health, Labour and Welfare Award for Businesses and Individuals that Provide Employment Opportunities for People with Disabilities . The award is intended to arouse enthusiasm and an independent work spirit among disabled persons and also deepen the interest and understanding of businesses and the public in disabled employment. It is awarded to workplaces that actively hire a high Plant Manager Kinmaru Goto number of disabled employees or individual disabled workers who demonstrate Receives the Minister of exemplary performance as professionals. Health, Labour and Welfare Award Plant Manager Goto was honored as an individual contributing to the advancement and stability of employment for the disabled. Besides efforts in hiring the disabled at Daikin Sunrise Settsu's Co., Ltd., the award was also the result of Goto's work educating the public about hiring the disabled. Following President Yoshio Ohtake's reception of the award last year, this is the second time in 2 years that Sunrise Settsu has been thus honored. Daikin Sunrise Settsu Certified as a Leading Company That Promotes the Employment of People w ith Disabilities by Japan's Health, Labour and Welfare Ministry In March 2009, Daikin Sunrise Settsu Co., Ltd. was certified as a Leading Company That Promotes the Employment of People with Disabilities by Japan's Health, Labour and Welfare Ministry. This certification came after Daikin Sunrise Settsu passed minimum standards under a certification system for companies that are run by the Japan Association of Employers of persons with Severe Disabilities, which is under Heartful Ribbon Mark authorization of Japan's Health, Labour and Welfare Ministry. Certified companies may use the Heartful Ribbon Mark issued under this system. 187 Responsibility to Stakeholders Daikin Named Certified Disabled Training Center in Shanghai Using the experience of Daikin Sunrise Settsu Co., Ltd. in Japan, Daikin Air Conditioning Systems (Shanghai) Co., Ltd. has expanded its hiring of the disabled. Companies in Shanghai must have disabled account for at least 1.6% of their workforce. As of the end of March 2011, Daikin Shanghai had 63 disabled employees working on lines and in offices, accounting for 9.22% of all employees. In July 2006, the Shanghai Federation for the Handicapped certified the company as a Production line run by disabled employees at Daikin vocational training center for the handicapped. Air-Conditioning (Shanghai) In 2005, Daikin Shanghai established a product packaging assembly line operated by the many disabled the company hired that year. This line was separated from the current production line in order to ensure the safety of the workers. As the company improved its work environment and these employees gradually improved their skills, they began working more and more with other employees. And like all other employees, the disabled are compensated based on an evaluation of their performance. Promotion of Local Personnel at Overseas Bases Promotion of Local Management at Overseas Bases Daikin Group is pushing forward the localization of management at overseas bases and is actively encouraging the promotion of local personnel to managerial positions. In 2004, we started the Daikin Business School (D-BS), a training seminar for cultivating personnel to take on the tasks of local management. In fiscal 2009, we formulated a training plan to identify and cultivate prospective managers throughout the entire Group, and have since been carrying out staff appointments and training on a carefully planned basis. In fiscal 2010, we promoted 11 local personnel to executive positions in Europe, China, other parts of Asia, and Oceania. Diversity Education for Employees Training Japanese Employees for Work at Overseas Bases Daikin Industries has a variety of training for Japanese employees who will be working at overseas bases so that they are able to respect the values of local employees and communicate with them properly. This training has two goals. One is to improve understanding of the situation in the appointed region or country, the thinking and values of the people there, and the main considerations when doing business there. And because the Japanese employee will often be a manager, the other goal is to teach that person about Daikin's basic stance on personnel and labor matters, particularly cultural differences that could be important when evaluating employees. In 2009, 21 Daikin employees bound for bases in the United States learned about current affairs and day-to-day personnel and labor matters in that country, while five Daikin employees appointed to bases in China learned the essentials of doing business in that country. In 2010, training is being held for 27 Daikin employees heading for Mexico, Brazil, and other Latin American countries so that they can understand the intricacies of the culture and customs of these countries. 188 Responsibility to Stakeholders Work-Life Balance Policy Daikin Industries stresses a work life balance for employees. We have a range of work systems that allow employees to work flexible duties and flexible schedules. The company has established an action plan for helping employees with children continue both work and home duties with peace of mind and has been certified as a company complying with the Law for Measures to Support the Development of the Next Generation. We have been particularly active in urging male employees to take advantage of our systems for childcare leave and childcare support. Helping Employees Match Work Schedule with Lifestyle Flex Time and Discretionary Work System Allow Employees to Continue Working To allow this diverse range of employees to work Number of Employees Leaving, Employee Turnover (Daikin under flexible conditions and working hours, we Industries only) introduced the flex time system in 1991. In 2001, we introduced a discretionary work system in use in the R&D department and other company departments to accommodate the needs of employees with specialized duties such as those involved in planning, proposals, and surveys related to company operations. Thanks to these efforts to give employees flexible working conditions and working hours, Daikin has an employee turnover of just 3.4% (including mandatory retirement age employees): this is far below the average of 16.4% for all industries in Japan (according to a 2009 survey by Japan's Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare). Support for Childcare A Company Conducive to Both Working and Raising Children Daikin Industries strives to create an environment where employees can continue their jobs even after having children. In March 2007, we were certified for compliance with the Law for Measures to Support the Development of the Next Generation after reaching the targets of our first action plan. Our second action plan started in April 2007 with a number of support efforts. One of these introduced in June 2007 was a childcare support system under which parents working overtime or taking business trips, or taking care of sick children, were eligible to receive financial aid from the company to cover part of the expenses such as babysitters. In fiscal 2010, 40 employees took advantage of this system. Daikin Group companies in Japan are also doing all they can to help employees raise their children. Daikin Group maintains a short-hours work system for employees with pre-school children, and many Group companies allow employees with pre-school children to choose from a variety of work systems such as a staggered or flexible work schedule or short hours. 189 Responsibility to Stakeholders 68 Male Employees Take Childcare Leave Daikin Industries encourages male employees to take extended leave for childcare and aims to create a work environment in which male employees feel comfortable taking childcare leave. We have revised our childcare leave systems so that more men could take childcare leave. This was an important part of the company's second action plan based on the Law for Measures to Support the Development of the Next Generation. The changes allow men with at-home spouses to take childcare leave until the child is 1 year old (compared to until eight weeks previously) and to take childcare leave twice (compared to once previously). As a result of our efforts to promote awareness and use of the childcare leave system among our employees, 68 men took childcare leave in fiscal 2010. Number of Employees Taking Leave Before and After Child Birth and Number Taking Childcare Leave (Daikin Industries only) Daikin Industries achieved the targets of its first action plan based on the Law for Measures to Support the Development of the Next Generation. For this, the company was certified by the Osaka Labour Bureau. Symbol Showing Certification as a Company Supporting Employees Childcare Efforts Details of Second Action Plan Childcare flextime system extended for longer period Flexible working hours may now be used by parents of children still in elementary school (previously only for parents of preschool children). New plan established to provide financial assistance for childcare expenses. Parents working overtime or taking business trips, or whose children are sick, can choose to receive childcare services, with each family eligible to receive up to 200,000 yen a year in financial aid. More men encouraged to take childcare leave. We publicized changes to the system that make it easier for men to take childcare leave. Conference held on best balance of work and family. Information exchange conference allowed participants to share how best to balance work and family. Efforts made to shorten working hours We obligated employees to leave work at closing time at least once a week and prohibited them from coming to work on their days off. 190 Responsibility to Stakeholders Support Systems for the Balance of Work and Family 1992 Introduction of childcare leave system and shortened working hours for parents. 2005 First action plan based on the Law for Measures to Support the Development of the Next Generation. Achievement of goals of first action plan. 2007 Creation of second action plan (implementation period: March 2007-March 2012). Reassessment of childcare leave and family care leave in accordance with the revised Child Care and Family 2010 Care Leave Act Support for Family Care Family Care Leave and Shortened Working Hours Daikin Industries is doing all it can so that Number Taking Family Care Leave (Daikin Industries only) employees can take leave to care for their family when necessary, with minimal stress, and therefore create an environment in which employees can continue working for Daikin under these circumstances. Under our family care leave system, employees can take leave up to a maximum of 365 days for each family member who requires care, once for each time that member's condition becomes such as to require care. Under our system for adjustment of working hours for family care, employees can opt to work a staggered or flexible work schedule or shorter hours (six hours per day) up to a maximum of 365 days for each family member who requires care. In fiscal 2010, we reappraised the policy on child and family care leave in response to the revision of the Child Care and Family Care Leave Act in June, and included short-term care leave, whereby employees may take up to 5 days leave each year if needed to care for 1 family member, or up to 10 days leave for 2 or more family members. Other Employee Benefit Systems (some are abridged) Pension Defined contribution pension The employee gets three days of paid leave between the month the Seniors' leaves system Paid employee turns 55 and retirement age. leave Participation in Japan Overseas Employees may be allowed to take time off work for this. Cooperation Volunteers 191 Responsibility to Stakeholders Labor Management Relations Policy Daikin Industries believes that cooperative labor management relations are the foundation of company management. We therefore place the utmost emphasis on equality of labor and management, as well as mutual trust between both sides. Our stance has, and always will be, to face the truth in solving all problems, and to speak frankly and draw clear lines between what is and what is not possible. Except for managers and certain employees, everyone at Daikin Industries is a union member. The company holds frank discussions with the labor union. As soon as business plans are clarified, management holds a meeting where it explains these plans to the labor union. In fiscal 2010, there were 22 such meetings held at the head office. Branch office meetings are also held when necessary. Employee working conditions and status are matters discussed between labor and management, with results of these discussions promptly reported to employees of the various divisions. Respecting the Rights of Workers Specification in Work Regulations and Agreements and Publicizing of Respect for Workers Rights At Daikin Industries, we believe that the company should respect its employees as individuals and strive to improve their welfare, and that employees should fulfill their duties as workers. The principle of respect for the rights of the worker is specified in work regulations and labor agreements. To ensure understanding of workers' rights, we give a thorough explanation of the work regulations and labor agreement to new employees when they join the company, and the labor union also conducts similar education of employees. Dialog with Employees Hearings for Employees to Improve Working Conditions Daikin Industries has about 10 hearings a year with at least 2% of its employees (approximately 160 employees). Salary negotiations are held between labor and management with consideration for factors including company performance, operational issues, world trends, and the work of the labor union. Interviewing each employee based on these factors results in that person receiving a salary that both sides agree is fair under the circumstances. Besides salary, employees are also given hearings when there are matters to report from the company, such as new fiscal year policies, budget and performance reports, and a message from the president at bonus time. Other ways that we hold dialog with employees include meetings between managers and their workers during announcement of annual targets and employee evaluations. Listening to frank employee opinions ensures that we can continuously improve labor-management relations. 192 Responsibility to Stakeholders Occupational Safety and Health Policy The Daikin Group's Group Compliance Guidelines state our top priority of ensuring a safe, healthy workplace where employees can work in peace of mind. To achieve this, we constantly strive to create a zero accident workplace where Daikin employees and subcontract employees work safely, both for their own sake and to instill a feeling of safety in the minds of residents around our factories. Frequency Rate*1 (Daikin Industries only) *1: This shows the frequency of work-related calamities, expressed in number of casualties for every 1,000,000 working hours. Severity Rate*2 (Daikin Industries only) *2: This shows the severity of the calamity, expressed in man-days lost per 1,000 hours worked. 193 Responsibility to Stakeholders Number of Accidents Resulting in Time off Work (Daikin Industries only) Occupational Safety and Health Management Structure Occupational Safety and Health Committee at Each Daikin Site Leads Safety and Accident-Prevention Efforts The chart below shows the Daikin Group's system for occupational safety and health and security. An Occupational Safety and Health Committee at each Daikin site leads efforts through the creation of voluntary annual policies and slogans. These committees also ensure the safety of facilities and prevent accidents through risk assessments, conduct site patrols to make sure rules are being followed, and raise employee safety awareness through hand-on workshops. The committees also send members to other sites to exchange safety information with committee members there. System for Occupational Safety and Health 194 Responsibility to Stakeholders Employee Education and Training Raising Safety Awareness through Danger Prediction Drills Each site of Daikin Industries conducts courses and training in occupational safety and health. Special training is offered to licensed operators of equipment such as presses and forklifts. We also have danger prediction drills for all employees as well as employees of on-site partner companies with the aim of eliminating human error. We also carry out near-miss educational activities to prevent accidents during work commutes and raise traffic safety within the premises. Ensuring Plant Safety for Business Partners (Responsibility to Business Partners) (Page 208) Daikin Airconditioning Singapore Given High Appraisal for Occupational Health and Safety Activities In September 2010, Daikin Airconditioning (Singapore) Pte. Ltd. was awarded a 5-star rating, the highest possible, in the Singapore government's BizSAFE program for promoting health and safety in the workplace. Under this program, a business must first obtain approval according to both the local safety standards (SS506) and the international standards (ISO18001) and is then ranked according to the level of bizSAFE implementation of occupational health and safety measures and risk management. Daikin Airconditioning (Singapore) Pte. Ltd. organized a safety committee that meets monthly to discuss and solve occupational health and safety issues. In fiscal 2010, the company held its first safety exhibition, which was attended by approximately 90 employees and 58 subcontracting service companies. Employee Health Management Supporting Employee Health through Checkups and Counseling Daikin Industries strives to maintain employees' health by providing all employees with semi-annual health checkups, as well as semi-annual special checkups for those engaged in specialized work. Employees who are found to have problems are put under the direct guidance of the company health clinic, while employees with lifestyle-related diseases are taken care of by a public health nurse and nutritionist. We are trying to provide more opportunities for the employees themselves to use this health and nutrition advice for their own self improvement. Employees working excessive hours are checked by an industrial physician, and if the employee needs special attention, he or she and his or her superior will receive guidance from the physician. We also work to increase employees' health awareness by holding seminars on preventing metabolic syndrome and lifestyle-related diseases, and providing information designed to reduce smoking among employees. 195 Responsibility to Stakeholders Mental Health Awareness of Individuals and Organizations Dealing with Mental Health Issues and Provision of Specialist Care Daikin Industries strives to maintain the physical and mental health of employees. Based on guidelines from the Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare, four types of mental health care measures are implemented at all bases: self-care, care by managers, care by dedicated in-house staff, and care by dedicated outside staff. Specialized staff work closely with each workplace to create a working environment conducive to mental and physical well-being. Industrial physicians provide mental health checkups to employees who are transferred and to newly hired employees after three months, as well as to employees who questionnaires have showed are facing problems. We also have once-a-year mental health lectures for managers. Shortening Working Hours Shortening Work Hours by Obligating Employees to Leave at Closing Time and by Boosting Work Efficiency Since fiscal 2003, as an initiative to eliminate long working hours, Daikin Industries has obligated employees to leave the office at closing time once a week and prohibited employees from coming to work on their days off (unless absolutely necessary and approved by the department head ). In this way, we are making a concerted effort to improve both work rule compliance and work efficiency. Yearly plans are made for each employee's duties and working hours, and to ensure that work and personnel management are in line with the plans, checklists are filled out to manage daily work. Furthermore, by implementing a planned 5-day paid work leave system and establishing 3 days of general paid leave, we aim to promote respect for work-life balance and a more vibrant work environment. In fiscal 2009, we introduced a work attendance tracking system that enables us to easily comprehend the day-to-day circumstances of employee overtime and paid leave use. This system has advanced employee workload control by managers and boosted the use of paid leave among employees. We will continue to do everything we can to shorten working hours and boost work efficiency. Percentage of Employees Taking All Paid Leave (Daikin Industries only) 196 Responsibility to Stakeholders Average Hours of Overtime per Employee (Daikin Industries only) Measures to reduce working hours 1. Daily management of operations Self-checks and mutual-checks using checklists. 2. Raising awareness and changing company culture Managers lead the way by not working on days off or late at night. Change from calculating working hours by month to calculating by week in order to more quickly adjust work plans and work load. Workplaces voluntarily establish their own rules regarding working for especially long hours. 3. The 5 Rules Ensure that employees leave work at closing time once a week. Nobody works on days off. Do not allow employees to work excess hours. Do not make employees do unpaid overtime. Late night work is prohibited. Each department sets its own maximum permitted work time. 4. Clarify management of operations Implement a work attendance system. 5. Set goals to improve productivity and work efficiency in each division 197 Responsibility to Stakeholders Philosophy The Daikin Group believes that practicing the principle of People-centered Management is essential to the growth of the group. Our philosophy states that the cumulative growth of all group members, regardless of nationality or company, serves as the foundation for the group's development. Based on the belief that people grow through work experience, the Daikin Group develops employee capabilities through on-the-job training (OJT)*1. We also supplement this with off-the-job training (Off JT)*2, such as the Daikin Leadership Development Program for training executives who can work at the front line of global business operations, the Daikin Business School for executive management of overseas bases. We offer provide opportunities for independent learning through language training and correspondence courses. *1 OJT: Employees learn and acquire the skills, knowledge, and degree of commitment required of their positions while performing their jobs. *2 OFF-JT: Employees study outside of their workplaces in order to acquire the knowledge and skills needed for their jobs. Education Systems Raising up Personnel through Work Experience to Take the World Stage With the Daikin Group's business spreading worldwide, it is crucial that we train people to be leaders with the management skills to guide employees with a diverse range of values in a common direction. To this end, in May 2008, we established the Daikin Ales Aoya Global Training Center in Tottori Prefecture, Japan. Here, new intensive courses for all worldwide Daikin employees are geared to the changing needs of the times, such as Skills Leader Training for people leading our overseas production bases, and Bridge Person Training for people who will promote understanding and practice of the Group Philosophy worldwide. In fiscal 2010, over 10,000 employees made use of the training center. Starting from fiscal 2011, under the FUSION 15 strategic management plan for 2015, we are implementing a variety of measures to boost human resources and facilitate mutual communications between the headquarters and branch offices, such as greater global recruitment, career path structuring, inter-regional and international deployments, and creation of competitive assessment and reward systems. Daikin Ales Aoya Global Training Bridge Person Training Center 198 Responsibility to Stakeholders Education System New Employee Training The goal of new employee training is to foster business people capable of frankly expressing their own opinions and communicating with people with differing opinions. Trainees learn what it takes to be a company employee, and about the past, present, and future direction of the Daikin Group. There are also five days of English-language training as part of efforts to help new employees become global citizens and understand other cultures. New employees also spend five nights and six days at the Daikin Ales Aoya global training center in Tottori Prefecture, Japan. There, hands-on, participatory training has new employees holding discussions and practicing concepts focusing on Daikin's People-centered Management and how to become an ideal employee. Fast and Flat Training This training focuses on improving the levels of leadership demonstrated by managers based on Daikin's concept of People-centered management. It is to facilitate Fast and Flat management of people and organization appropriate to each workplace. Overseas Base Practical Training To ensure we have internationally minded employees who can lead our global business in future, we send young employees (who have been with Daikin between two and nine years) to work at overseas bases for two years. Unlike other Daikin employees working overseas, these people make the most of their time in a foreign country, as they learn the practical side of all aspects of business by working with local dealers, suppliers, business partners, and universities, and acquiring firsthand the job skills and knowledge they need and learning about local cultures. This program started in 1999 and as of the end of fiscal 2010, 93 employees had taken part. 199 Responsibility to Stakeholders Bridge Person Training This training gives participants the work knowledge, experience, and networking and people skills that will make them a bridge between overseas bases and their Daikin divisions in Japan. Trainees learn to improve communication skills in English, and to gain a deeper understanding of foreign culture and Daikin Group's Philosophy. This training began in 2008 and by the end of fiscal 2010, 51 employees had completed it. Study Trips in Japan Daikin sends young employees in Japan to universities such as Toyota Technological Institute and the International University of Japan in order to improve their technological skills, widen their perspective, and build human resource networks. There are currently six Daikin employees studying at Toyota Technological Institute. Daikin Leadership Development Program, Daikin Business School Both the Daikin Leadership Development Program and the Daikin Business School foster the next generation of Daikin Executives; the former is for managers in Japan while the latter is for local nationals who are managers at Daikin's overseas bases. Centered on Our Group Philosophy, the program turns out executives who can lead and manage their company for the common good of the entire Daikin Group. Passing on Skills Meister and Expert Systems Foster a New Generation In 2001, Daikin Industries introduced a system to pass on advanced skills to young workers. This system ensures that we give the next generation of technical leaders the advanced skills that form the foundation of manufacturing. In the air conditioning divisions, workers with advanced skills are designated as Meisters . As of March 2011, there are 18 designated Meisters in the skill areas of brazing, lathing, sheet metal working, arc welding, die making, and tooling. These Meisters teach their skills at Daikin bases worldwide, thus fostering future engineers and technical leaders. The Chemicals Division has since 2006 had a system to designate Experts, who pass their advanced skills on to others. As of March 2011, there are five designated Experts working in plant operations. Passing on Skills at Overseas Bases Fostering Global Trainers to Play Active Roles Around the World Starting in 2002, Daikin Industries began designating distinguished veteran technicians as Meisters and sending them overseas to help raise the skill levels at overseas Group production bases. However, due to a lack of personnel to provide technical support for manufacturing at overseas bases, in April 2010 we established a new trainer system to foster future Meisters. Under this system, there are 3 categories of trainer—global trainers, regional trainers, and base trainers—and there are currently nine personnel undergoing this training. Global skills training In fiscal 2009, we started the Global Trainer Program in which foreign employees assigned to take up technical leader posts at their bases receive technical training in Japan from Meisters. Under this system, participants who have obtained technical skills return to the Daikin base in their own countries to provide technical leadership for their colleagues. As of fiscal 2010, a total of 16 technicians from foreign bases have participated in the Global Trainer Program. We will strengthen technical support at foreign bases by advancing personnel training and increasing the number of qualified trainers to achieve globally consistent quality at the increasing and expanding bases in developing countries. 200 Responsibility to Stakeholders Fostering Young Engineers and Technicians Experienced Workers Pass On Techniques and Skills Since 1994, the Shiga Plant of Daikin Industries has worked to boost the level of its manufacturing by having a Kaizen Team of experienced workers lead training for young employees in the production division. The system began with training for mid-level employees but now focuses on passing on skills and techniques to young employees. As of fiscal 2010, a total of 96 employees have taken this training. During the four-to-six-month training, each young employee is led by two or three experienced workers. Participants get practical work in the main aims of the particular session, taking classroom lectures in subjects like electrical circuitry, as well as applied learning in sheet metal working, arc welding, and circuitry. While young workers pick up technical knowledge, they get a chance to interact with experienced workers, which help young workers develop a sense of professionalism. Daikin Airconditioning Singapore Becomes an Approved Training Organization In August 2010, Daikin Airconditioning (Singapore) Pte. Ltd. established a framework agreement with the Singapore government's Workforce Development Agency (WDA) for conducting a training program as an Approved Training Organization (ATO). A budget has been set aside for the company's government-approved training program that includes government grants for administrative costs and tuition for two years. Daikin Airconditioning (Singapore) Pte. Ltd. will conduct vocational education, as the only government-approved training facility in the process industry. Explanatory pamphlet for government-approved courses Spurring the Creation of Intellectual Property Two Systems Stimulate Creation of Intellectual Property Daikin Industries has two systems for stimulating employees' motivation to invent and for spurring the creation of intellectual property. The first is the Compensation System for Employee Inventions, a system in which Daikin pays employees for inventions created on the job that result in patent applications as well as successful uses of the patent. In fiscal 2010, Daikin compensated employees for 1,095 patent applications (submitted before the end of March 2010) and 467 successful uses of the patent (investigated in fiscal 2009 and paid in fiscal 2010). The second is the Incentive System for Valuable Patents, which gives employees incentive bonuses for valuable patents. In fiscal 2010, we awarded incentive bonuses to the creators of 84 patents. 201 Responsibility to Stakeholders These systems have been gradually taking root and employees are increasingly interested in discoveries and patents. However, we cannot say that there has been an increase in number of patent applications or the number of patents in force (early incentive bonuses). In fiscal 2010, due to the decrease in air conditioning patent applications in fiscal 2009, development leaders and members of the Intellectual Property Department got together to follow-up on the progress of key development themes on a monthly basis and promptly submit new ideas. We will strive to enhance intellectual property management in order to increase both the number and quality of patent application, and we aim to devise ways to stimulate enthusiasm for inventions in a wider range of fields, as well as create a system of rewards that appropriately compensate employees for their success. We are also addressing possible incentives for outstanding activities such as the building up of patent portfolios and for outstanding inventions produced at overseas bases. Number of Patent Applications (Daikin Industries only) 202 Responsibility to Stakeholders The Daikin Group strives to build a relationship of trust with its suppliers. Through a synergistic relationship, both sides seek to meet each other's expectations for the sake of mutual growth and progress. To achieve this, we do our utmost to conduct fair and open dealings, and we constantly communicate with suppliers to ensure ever-improved quality and safety. Philosophy on Suppliers Open to All Suppliers of Any Nationality, Size, and Experience (See page 204) In choosing our suppliers, we have an open-door policy, based on our Philosophy on Fair Dealings Purchasing Policy, in which potential business partners, whatever their Purchasing Philosophy and Purchasing nationality, can view our requirements for quality, cost, and delivery on our Policy website before submitting a bid. Fair Dealings Management Structure Working Closely with Suppliers Growing and Evolving with Suppliers We take every opportunity for communicating with suppliers so that we (See page 206) can develop a relationship of mutual understanding and trust. Ensuring Legal Compliance in the Entire Supply Chain In order to grow and evolve with suppliers, we help them build Helping Suppliers Build Quality management systems offering better product quality and safety, hold Management Systems meetings jointly with suppliers where both sides can solve key problems, Raising Product Quality and Ensuring and offer training for employees of distributors. Safety Together with Suppliers Helping Suppliers Improve Quality ZD Activities with Suppliers Business Partners Contribute to Plant Safety Building a Relationship of Growth Green Procurement Guidelines Guidelines Require Suppliers to Carry Out Environmental Management and Chemical Substances Management Daikin's Green Procurement Guidelines went into effect in fiscal 2000 to help our suppliers procure green parts and materials. These guidelines (See page 209) are consulted during the procurement stage in Japan, China and Southeast Asia, and the EU. 203 Responsibility to Stakeholders Philosophy on Fair Dealings Dealings Based on Our Purchasing Policy The Daikin Group has a Purchasing Policy that is the basis for fair dealings with suppliers. Purchasing Philosophy and Purchasing Policy Purchasing Philosophy: Respect Independence and Cooperation and Competition Purchasing Policy: Fair relations based on an open-door policy Provide open, equal, and fair opportunities for all companies, regardless of their locality, size, and sales results. Mutual growth through mutual trust Create open conditions for business dealings and respect free competition. Look for good partners In procuring from overseas, look for companies to share common profit and offer society useful products. Observe laws, and maintain confidentiality Observe laws on business dealings and respect the spirit of these laws. Fair Dealings Management Structure Giving All Suppliers an Equal Opportunity through an Open Door Policy The Daikin Group has an open door policy on choosing suppliers in which we welcome bids from any company, regardless of nationality, size, or years in business. In our air conditioning business, information on product specs, desired quality and cost, and delivery times is posted on our website in order to achieve equality of opportunity. All companies satisfying our criteria become eligible to do business with us. In our chemicals business as well, we do business with any supplier meeting our criteria for quality, price, and delivery time. Regular Assessment of Suppliers to Review Business Relationship Before starting business dealings in the Daikin Group, we ensure potential partners understand our Purchasing Policy, and we assess them on consistent standards. After business dealings begin, we conduct assessments based on ISO 9001 and then review the business relationship accordingly. 204 Responsibility to Stakeholders In the air conditioning business, before we start transactions with new suppliers, we use the Supplier Assessment Standard Sheet to judge companies based on their administration, quality, price, delivery, and environmental measures. Besides ensuring that suppliers are in compliance with laws, we assess them in CSR aspects such as voluntary efforts to improve labor and environmental matters. Suppliers continue to be assessed every year based on our Assessment System for Continuation of Business. We also create standards and rules for qualitative assessment criteria so that we are able to make quantitative judgments. The assessment criteria themselves are also reviewed to keep up with the changing times. In the chemicals business, we assess new and existing suppliers based on ISO 9001, and we use as many criteria as possible in order to evaluate our suppliers fairly: this includes discussing business with the supplier using multiple Daikin representatives, and making regular visits to the supplier. Based on such assessments, in fiscal 2010 we began dealings with 20 new suppliers in the chemicals business. 205 Responsibility to Stakeholders Ensuring Legal Compliance in the Entire Supply Chain Helping Suppliers Achieve Compliance The Daikin Group strives to achieve legal compliance throughout the supply chain by helping suppliers abide by laws. In the air conditioning business, we raise supplier awareness through written requests for legal compliance and meetings five times a year at which we introduce case studies. When renewing agreements with suppliers, those that fail to meet our standards are asked to write up plans for improvement, which we follow up on. We believe it is important to constantly assess suppliers throughout the year to ensure that they are making improvements. We also provide environmental support information on a special website for suppliers. In the chemicals business, we carry out surprise spot audits. We know that we must continue to work with suppliers in order to further eliminate excessive and unfair labor and to ensure human rights are respected. Ensuring Compliance with the Subcontract Act Japan's Subcontract Act covers about 3,000 Daikin Industries' suppliers and subcontractors. Our Subcontract Act Compliance Guidelines ensure that all Daikin divisions are in compliance with the Act in respect to matters such as prompt payment. All divisions are made constantly aware of the importance of compliance through both in-house and third-party seminars. Comprehensive compliance inspections ensure that appropriate payment methods are being followed. We also constantly check the financial situation of subcontractor suppliers and production outsource suppliers and, if necessary, implement assistance measures such as relaxation of payment methods. Helping Suppliers Build Quality Management Systems Helping Suppliers Obtain ISO Certification Daikin Industries' Green Procurement Guidelines state that suppliers must be ISO 14001 certified. And to promote more complete quality management systems, we provide the latest information on environment-related laws, and we request our primary suppliers, as well as their suppliers, to conduct green procurement and build a chemical management system. The Chemicals Division requests that its suppliers obtain ISO 14001 certification, and it offers a range of advice on building quality management systems, improving production processes, and streamlining the organization so that suppliers can also obtain ISO 9001 certification. See Green Procurement (Low-Impact Production) (Page 119) See Green Procurement Guidelines (Page 209) 206 Responsibility to Stakeholders Raising Product Quality and Ensuring Safety Together with Suppliers Suppliers Take Part in Quality Improvement Conferences, Receive Quality Guidance Suppliers are indispensable to our goal of providing customers with reliable products. Daikin strives to raise quality by working closely with its suppliers. In our air conditioning business, we hold briefings to enlist the help of suppliers in improving quality and achieving zero defects. To this end, the Air Conditioning Manufacturing Division and the Global Procurement Division hold the monthly Supplier Quality Conference, where we assess and analyze the quality of parts we purchase and, when necessary, request that Supplier Quality Conference suppliers report on improvement efforts at quality improvement announcement meetings and quality improvement proposal meetings. We even go so far as to visit their factories to offer assistance. In our chemicals business, we hold an annual quality forum for sharing Daikin quality policies and giving suppliers a chance to report on their quality improvement activities. We also conduct quality audits at suppliers to ensure they are conducting measures to maintain and Annual Quality Forum improve quality. And we hold technical exchange meetings, where Daikin and engineers at our suppliers work to jointly solve quality issues. We will continue to strengthen communication with suppliers to ensure our products are of the highest quality. Helping Suppliers Improve Quality Air Conditioning Division Daikin Industries' policy and progress are explained and legal compliance is stressed Supplier meetings through model examples. (4-5 times/year) Supplier Quality Parts we purchased are inspected each month for defects and quality improvement Conference measures carried out. (Each month) Quality improvement Suppliers with quality problems must report on improvement measures. (In fiscal 2010, announcement meetings, five quality improvement announcement meetings were held for a total of 53 companies quality improvement and 12 quality improvement proposal meetings were held for 113 companies.) proposal meetings Auditing institution conducts regular external audit, and internal audit are conducted jointly in Quality audits the Air Conditioning Manufacturing Division and at suppliers. Visits to suppliers Purchasing managers and officers, and executives visit suppliers. Chemicals Division Introduction of Daikin Industries' quality policy, defect rate and quality cost of purchased Quality Forum goods, quality differences among companies, and activities aimed at improving quality. (Once a year, approx. 60 companies took part.) Technical exchange Daikin Industries and engineers at suppliers work together to solve quality issues. (Two meeting companies took part.) Suppliers who provided defective products underwent audits based on ISO 9001. Quality audits (Conducted at 25 companies.) Distribution of in-house magazine, holding of workshops on methods for analyzing quality Other improvement. 207 Responsibility to Stakeholders Aiming for Zero Defects through ZD Activities Since fiscal 2007, the Air Conditioning Division has been working with ZD Activities with Suppliers suppliers taking part in the Supplier Quality Conference in an initiative called ZD (zero defect) activities. The goal is to achieve zero defects through 3S (visual checks), preventative measures (look for potential problems in production processes), and prevention of reoccurring problems (through regular maintenance). In fiscal 2010, we expanded the ZD initiative to include overseas companies. As of fiscal 2010, 18 suppliers were taking part in ZD activities, which, combined with the Supplier Quality Conference, contributed to an approximately 60% drop in defects between fiscal 2005 and 2010. Business Partners Contribute to Plant Safety Providing Business Partners Working in Daikin Plants with Safety Information and Conducting On-Site Patrols Daikin Industries asks for business partners' cooperation in making plants safer. There are many employees of business partners working in Daikin plants, so it is essential we provide them with information and guidance on safe work practices and conduct safety patrols of the plants. With so many vehicles entering and exiting plants, safe driving is crucial. At the Yodogawa Plant and Kashima Plant, for example, an accident with the chemicals produced there could mean disaster. That's why we hold regular driving safety seminars for delivery vehicle drivers to teach them traffic rules and promote safe driving. In fiscal 2010, the Air Conditioning Division held two supplier meetings for raising awareness of safety. In the Chemicals Division, we held safety workshops attended by approximately 400 drivers. Building a Relationship of Growth Communication is Key to Building Understanding and Trust The Daikin Group takes every possible opportunity to communicate with suppliers and promote mutual understanding and trust. In the Air Conditioning Division, global purchasing officers, the head of the Global Procurement Division, and managers regularly visit suppliers for exchanges with their counterparts. Other ways we promote communication include supplier meetings, goodwill Workshop for dealers of the gatherings, and award ceremonies to recognize supplier achievements. Oil Hydraulics Division The Chemicals Division fosters good relations through the Quality Forum. It also has employees in charge of dealing with suppliers in five areas: main raw materials and auxiliary materials, packaging materials, equipment, outsourcing, and general purchasing. These employees work regularly and closely with suppliers to gather information and exchange opinions on issues including technology, quality, and price. As a result of this dialog, we have succeeded in achieving stable procurement of key material such as hydrogen fluoride, and Quality Forum sponsored by the Chemicals Division solved the problem of defects occurring during polyethylene molding. 208 Responsibility to Stakeholders Green Procurement Guidelines Helping Suppliers be Legally Compliant In fiscal 2000, the Daikin Group established the Green Procurement Guidelines, and it has been promoting environmental management throughout the entire supply chain in order to provide more environmentally responsible products. At our major manufacturing bases in Japan, China, and Southeast Asia, we help suppliers abide by the Green Procurement Guidelines and inspect products from our suppliers to determine the chemical substances they contain. To help suppliers comply with laws and regulations, we hold meetings to explain environmentally related laws and how the Daikin Group abides by these, and release information on our Web site. In October 2009, we published the 5th edition of the Green Procurement Guidelines, which includes an updated list of restricted chemical substances. Overview of the Green Procurement Guidelines (PDF file) Guidelines PDF Data (150KB) (Oct.2009 revised) (http://www.daikin.com/csr/social/supplier/guidelines.pdf) Green Procurement Inspection List PDF Data (55KB) (http://www.daikin.com/csr/social/supplier/inspection.pdf) You need the Adobe Reader application, offered by Adobe Systems Incorporated, to read PDF files. If it is not installed in your computer, please download an appropriate version of the application according to the model and specifications of your computer. Download Adobe Reader 209 Responsibility to Stakeholders Besides stressing CSR as part of its management, the Daikin Group strives to improve financial performance to maximize corporate value. Raising corporate value helps us meet shareholder and investor expectations and leads to further growth for our company. For Shareholders DOE of Plus 2.0% Means Stable Dividends To offer shareholders and investors higher stock prices and stable dividends, we strive to make the best use of capital to achieve solid (See page 211) profitability and a firm financial base. Maximizing Corporate Value Fiscal Year End Stock Prices Operating Income Margin Daikin Included in SRI Fund Indexes Distribution of Profit Dividends Dividends to Shareholders Equity Respect for Exercising Voting Rights Voting Rights Exercised Breakdown of Shareholders Information Disclosure Policy Constant Efforts to Disclose Information, Including 300 Seminars a Year The Daikin Group takes increasing responsibility to release information on its business situation promptly and properly. We are particularly diligent (See page 214) about being transparent with our shareholders and investors. Philosophy Disclosing Information in a Fair and Timely Manner 210 Responsibility to Stakeholders Maximizing Corporate Value Aiming for Increased Income and Profit Despite the Cloudy Economic Outlook The Daikin Group works to boost business performance and raise corporate value in order to meet the expectations of shareholders, investors, and other stakeholders. To this end, we stress free cash flow (a management indicator that can be said to be the source of corporate value), boost earnings, and reduce accounts receivable and inventory. With the world economy on the road to modest recovery in fiscal 2010, Daikin worked to expand business in China and other emerging countries, increase sales of energy-efficient products a step ahead of the competition in Europe and North America, and maximize advantages in Japan such as the hot summer and the eco-point system for appliance purchases. Meanwhile, we offset disadvantages, like increasing raw materials costs and an unfavorable exchange rate due to a strong Japanese yen, by strengthening our management structure through overall cost-cutting. As a result, net sales were 1.603 trillion yen, up 13%, and group operating income was 75.5 billion, up 71%. The economic outlook for fiscal 2011 is cloudy, what with high raw material costs, an unfavorable exchange rate due to the strong yen, power shortages due to the Great East Japan Earthquake, and sluggish consumer spending. However, we plan to start full-fledged entry into the mass consumer markets in emerging countries, step up environmentally related business, and come out with more energy-efficient products and services to help reduce energy consumption in response to the power shortages following the earthquake. In all, through the revamping of fixed costs and other measures we aim to continue boosting profitability so that we can increase income and profit. We believe that this year will take us further along the path to sustainable growth. It will be a year that the entire Daikin Group comes together to accelerate efforts to success as we start the FUSION 15 strategic management plan. Fiscal Year End Stock Prices Operating Income Margin 211 Responsibility to Stakeholders Daikin Included in SRI Fund* Indexes Daikin Industries has been selected for the ninth year in a row for inclusion in the Dow Jones Sustainability Indexes, which comprise approximately 300 leading companies worldwide selected through evaluation based on economic, environmental, and social criteria. Daikin has also been selected for the Morningstar and other SRI* (socially responsible investing) funds. * SRI Fund: SRI funds are made up of companies that, in addition to being rated as financially sound, demonstrate outstanding environmental protection and social responsibility in areas such as legal compliance and the promotion of human rights. Silver Class Rating for Daikin in SAM's Corporate Sustainability Assessment Daikin Industries underwent a corporate sustainability assessment conducted by Sustainable Asset Management (SAM), a Swiss asset management company, and was given a Silver Class rating. SAM ranks companies into Gold Class, Silver Class, or Bronze Class based on criteria including economic, environmental, and social sustainability. In fiscal 2010, SAM evaluated 2,500 companies in 58 sectors, with 272 selected (including 41 Japanese companies). In the Industrial Engineering sector, in which Daikin is classified, seven companies achieved the Silver Class and eight companies achieved the Bronze Class. Daikin Industries was the only Japanese company among these 15. Distribution of Profit Deciding Dividends according to Profits Based on Stability By setting a target of maintaining at least a 2.0% Dividends ratio of dividends to shareholders equity, we strive to pay stable dividends that take into account a range of factors including consolidated performance, financial situations, and capital needs. The dividend for fiscal 2010 is expected to be 36 yen, up 4 yen from the previous fiscal year. With regard to internal reserves, we will allot them to strategic investments aimed at strengthening the management structure, accelerating the development of global business, promoting the development of environmentally conscious products, achieving business expansion, and improving competitiveness. 212 Responsibility to Stakeholders Dividends to Shareholders Equity Respect for Exercising Voting Rights Helping More Shareholders Exercise Voting Rights To ensure that shareholders have more time to consider new proposals before voting at the Ordinary General Meeting of Shareholders, we send announcements of the meeting a week earlier than is legally required. To remedy the discrepancy in information available in Japan and other countries, we translate announcements of shareholder meetings into English and send these to overseas institutional investors, and we have an English version of our website. Since fiscal 2003, we have striven to get as many shareholders as possible to exercise their voting rights by allowing voting over the Internet. This means that those who cannot attend meetings in person can still exercise their voting rights by personal computer or mobile phone. In fiscal 2006, we adopted a platform for exercising voting rights, which made it even easier for institutional investors to vote. As a result of these efforts, the percentage of voting rights exercised reached 79.49% in fiscal 2010. The number of votes cast over the Internet also increased to 1,012,927 in fiscal 2010 (998 shareholders). Voting Rights Exercised Voting rights exercised Votes cast over the Internet Shareholders voting online FY2007 81.72% 903,216 691 FY2008 85.43% 864,879 926 FY2009 81.50% 897,490 779 FY2010 79.49 1,012,927 998 Breakdown of Shareholders (March 31, 2011) 213 Responsibility to Stakeholders Philosophy Daikin Industries places the utmost importance on its responsibility of providing stakeholders with timely, proper information disclosure. In particular, we believe it is our duty to raise management transparency by disclosing information to shareholders and investors in every possible way. To this end, we have a Disclosure Policy that stipulates standards and methods for information disclosure. In accordance with our Disclosure Policy and the Tokyo Stock Exchange's standards for timely information disclosure, we use our website, news organizations, and the TD-NET online system provided by the Tokyo Stock Exchange to disclose information on recalls, the occurrence of loss on valuation of securities, and decisions such as the establishment of sales companies. As well, for product, technical, and other information that we decide must be made public, we do so after consultation between the relevant company divisions. Disclosing Information in a Fair and Timely Manner Maximizing Information Disclosure through Briefings and Our Website Daikin Industries conducts a range of IR activities aimed at improving understanding in areas like our company's current state and management philosophy for shareholders and investors. For analysts and institutional investors, we hold interim and end-of-year financial performance briefings, and conference calls every first and third financial quarter. As well, we visit and hold talks with institutional investors in Japan and other countries. In fiscal 2010, we spoke with End-of-year financial investors on nearly 300 occasions through business briefings, factory tours, and face-to-face performance briefing for meetings. analysts and institutional investors We try to provide a wealth of information on the IR site of our home page and disclose information—including documents required by law such as securities reports and documents related to our business performance—in a prompt, fair, and timely manner. Our top executives also strive to relay firsthand company philosophy and direction in as many ways as possible. The opinions from shareholders and investors are reflected in our management. In fiscal 2010, the Tokyo Branch appointed an IR manager in charge of media relations, and this allowed us to better meet the information needs of institutional investors. We will continue to conduct dialog with all investors, and we are planning to provide personal investors with IR information through more comprehensive website pages specifically for shareholders and investors. 214 Responsibility to Stakeholders Employees are front and center in community service that covers arts and culture, human resource development, and environmental protection. We strive to provide each region with the support it needs. Promoting Art and Culture Daikin Supports National Museum of Art Established to promote art and culture, the Daikin Industries Foundation to Promote Modern Art supports a wide range of activities including (See page 217) exhibitions by the National Museum of Art, lectures, academic research, and publications. Overseas as well, we support local culture through the Policy on Contributing to Furthering Art and Culture sponsorship of music festivals and other events. Supporting Art and Music National Museum of Art, Osaka Daikin Supports the Kansai Philharmonic Orchestra Other Organizations Supported by Daikin Industries Promoting Sports Daikin Employees Run Golf Tournament and Foster Future Golfers With the aim of deepening relations between Okinawa and mainland Japan, every spring we sponsor the Daikin Orchid Ladies' Golf (See page 219) Tournament, the opening event of the Japan Ladies' Pro Golf Tour. Policy on Promoting Sports Held in conjunction with the tournament is the Orchid Bounty Foundation, Daikin Orchid Ladies' Golf Tournament which collects donations to support local arts, culture, and education. Contributing to Education Support Education for Youth The Daikin Group, through its local companies, supports education for youth by donating financial aid and offering technical courses. (See page 221) Policy on Contributing to Education Efforts in Japan Other Educational Activities in Japan Efforts Overseas Other Education Efforts Overseas 215 Responsibility to Stakeholders Environmental Contributions to Society Employees Worldwide Volunteer to Plant Trees Daikin Industries works with the NGO Conservation International in a new reforestation project in Indonesia. Daikin overseas group companies also (See page 225) conduct their own tree-planting activities in efforts to contribute to the absorption of CO2. Policy on Environmental Protection Efforts in Japan Efforts Overseas Other Tree-Planting Activities Overseas A Good Corporate Citizen—Activities in Each Community Employees Will Continue to Be Front and Center by Listening to the Needs of the Community We want to be a good corporate citizen by being keen to the problems of the communities we operate in and conducting activities that lead to (See page 227) solutions. Philosophy Employees at regional Daikin bases have planned ways to interact with Supporting Employment of People with local communities. Employees will continue to be front and center by Disabilities listening to the needs of the community: this will make Daikin a known and Building Trust with Communities trusted member of local society. Correspondence between Company Sites and Local Community Members Safety and Disaster Prevention at Plants (Japan) Contributing to Local Safety (Japan) Interactions with Local Communities (Japan) Local Cleanup Activities (Japan) Interactions with Local Communities (Overseas) Aiming to Take Root in China Regional Independent Activities (Overseas) Charitable Activities Donations in FY2010 (Daikin Industries only) Aid for Victims of Natural Disasters in FY2010 Helping the Needy 216 Responsibility to Stakeholders Policy on Contributing to Furthering Art and Culture Established to promote art and culture, the Daikin Industries Foundation to Promote Modern Art supports a wide range of activities including exhibitions by the National Museum of Art, lectures, academic research, and publications. Overseas as well, we support local culture through the sponsorship of music festivals and other events. Supporting Art and Music The Daikin Industries Foundation to Promote Modern Art The world's outstanding artistic and cultural works transcend national borders. Daikin is committed to bringing the joy of these works, and the creativity they inspire, to a wider audience. This desire has compelled Daikin to focus on promoting art and music. In March 1996, Daikin Industries established the Daikin Industries Foundation to Promote Modern Art to mark the company's 70th anniversary on October 25, 1994. In the foundation's first year, Daikin Industries donated ¥200 million for the basic fund, followed by another ¥200 million after three years. With another donation of ¥100 million in 2004, Daikin's 80th anniversary, total founding so far amounts to ¥500 million yen. The foundation supports a wide range of projects designed to teach art appreciation, such as exhibitions at the National Museum of Art, Osaka (NMAO), lectures, publications, surveys, and research. Our goal is to contribute to the revitalization of culture and art in our home territory of Osaka by promoting museum activities. National Museum of Art, Osaka (4 Nakanoshima, Kita-ku, Osaka, Japan Museum director: Toshio Yamanashi) Established in 1977 in Expo Park, Suita, NMAO was established to collect, preserve, and research works of art in order to contribute to Japanese art and spotlight its relationship to art worldwide. Beloved as Osaka's only national museum, the NMAO was relocated to Nakanoshima in November 2004 due to aging of its former facilities. All the exhibition halls are located below ground in a temperatureand humidity-controlled environment. The new museum contains 13,487 square meters of floor space. The museum strives to represent new artistic trends by presenting exhibits focusing on modern art. In recent years, it has hosted a wide range of educational projects for both adults and children. It clearly plays an important role in promoting the Japanese art world. 217 Responsibility to Stakeholders Daikin Supports the Kansai Philharmonic Orchestra Daikin Industries supports the Osaka-based Kansai Philharmonic Orchestra. Formed in 1970, it became a specified nonprofit corporation in 2003. The orchestra is an integral member of local society, giving community concerts at its practice hall and hiring as many local musicians as possible. Daikin has supported the Kansai Philharmonic Orchestra and since 2007 Daikin CEO Noriyuki Kansai Philharmonic Inoue has been a director on the orchestra's committee. Orchestra Other Organizations Supported by Daikin Industries New National Theatre, Tokyo National Museum of Ethnology Kaitokudo Kyoto National Museum Osaka Wasso Cultural Exchange Association EU-Japan Fest Keio University 150th Anniversary Commemorative Ceremony Ogura Hyakunin Isshu Project Osaka City Dome Co., Ltd. (contribution) Kansai Science City and Higashiosaka-Osaka Yumehanna Cooperative Project Musée d'Orsay, Royal Museums of Fine Arts of Belgium, and Shōsōin Exhibitions Takarazuka Vega Music Competition Japanese Red Cross Society, Osaka Chapter Midosuji Illumination 218 Responsibility to Stakeholders Policy on Promoting Sports With the aim of deepening relations between Okinawa and mainland Japan, every spring we sponsor the Daikin Orchid Ladies' Golf Tournament, the opening event of the Japan Ladies' Pro Golf Tour. Daikin Orchid Ladies' Golf Tournament Daikin Hosts the Ever Onward With Okinawa Tournament with the Vision of Boldly Taking on the Future, Together With Okinawa In order to expand the circle of interaction among people through sports, Daikin Industries sponsors the Daikin Orchid Ladies' Golf Tournament, a pro event. Our hope is that our promotion of sports will contribute to the advancement of life in Okinawa. The Daikin Orchid Ladies' Golf Tournament was inaugurated in 1988 as the opening round of the Japan Ladies' Pro Golf Tour. As its sponsor, Daikin contributed the slogan Ever Onward A number of participants in the With Okinawa, indicating our desire to join with Okinawa in boldly addressing the challenges amateur tournament have gone of the future. on to take part in the pro tour Local Amateur Golfers Invited to Participate in Daikin Orchid Ladies' Golf Tournament The Daikin Orchid Ladies' Golf Tournament was created to help develop and revitalize the Okinawa golf scene. It has been an open tournament since 1997, giving Okinawa's amateur golfers the chance to compete with top professional players. Those aspiring to play in the tournament proper must first qualify in the Daikin Orchid Ladies' Amateur Golf Championship, which has been the proving ground for many professional female golfers active today such as Ai Miyazato, Shinobu Moromizato (Daikin Industries' pro), and Mika Miyazato. InBee Park was the winner of the tournament's 24th edition Bridging Okinawa and the Mainland The pro and amateur tournaments and the pre-tournament festival enable representatives of local and mainland businesses to interact in an informal setting and gain a better understanding of each other's perspectives. This has led to the emergence of the Okinawa Konwakai, an organization created to consider future development in Okinawa. The association organizes a variety of vibrant activities that include forums and presentations on how to promote and develop Okinawa. Local Volunteers Contribute to a Successful Tournament Local volunteers from the city of Nanjo can be counted on to provide their invaluable time and labor to help run the tournament. Launched in 1997, the volunteer program now brings together more than 400 local volunteers every year. In appreciation of their efforts, Daikin donates books to the local Tamashiro Junior High School every year. 219 Responsibility to Stakeholders The Orchid Bounty Foundation Supports the Culture and Sports of Okinawa All competitors in the professional and amateur tournaments provide their assistance by raising money through the Orchid Bounty fundraiser. These funds, augmented by donations from the sponsors, are used to aid the development of Okinawa prefecture, the tournament venue. Specifically, funding is provided to public organizations and individuals promoting artistic, cultural, sporting, and educational activities. In 2011, Orchid Bounty donated ¥6 million to a total of 12 organizations and individuals, bringing the total contributions since 1995 to ¥97.4 million. Local Junior High School Students Invited to Watch Tournament Many students from the local Tamashiro Junior High School are invited to watch the tournament every year. This gives the students a valuable opportunity to learn about and experience the joy of golf. Japan LPGA Chairperson Hisako Higuchi gives a briefing to the students before the event. By getting a close-up look at the demanding world of the professional golfer and seeing how a professional tournament is run, the students get a firsthand view of the amazing world of professional sports. 220 Responsibility to Stakeholders Policy on Contributing to Education The Daikin Group, through its local companies, supports education for youth. By donating financial aid, offering technical courses, and conducting grass-roots activities, we seek to cooperate with and gain the trust of local communities. Efforts in Japan Participation in Local Education Programs From fiscal 2010, the Daikin Industries Kashima plant has been conducting educational presentations at local elementary schools. By demonstrating chemical experiments using fluorine for senior students, the instructors help the children to appreciate the enjoyment of chemistry and how technological advances benefit their daily lives. Other Daikin production bases around Japan, meanwhile, invite elementary school students for factory tours, which are highly rated by both the school children and their teachers. Environmental Education and Awareness Activities (Page 150) Daikin Develops the Circle of Life Free Environmental Education Program on Biodiversity for Elementary School Children Daikin Industries, in cooperation with NGO Conservation International, our partner in reforestation activities in Indonesia, has developed an environmental education program called Circle of Life, to teach elementary school children about biodiversity. Circle of Life is a partner program to the Children's Eco-Club, an initiative of Japan's Ministry of the Environment. The basic program consists of four lessons given by a school teacher, but if the school desires, Daikin also sends one of its employees to Classroom lesson from Daikin provide additional education. employee Starting in April 2010, elementary schools across Japan receive free learning materials for this program. By the end of March 2011, 34 schools had participated in the program, and we had sent educational speakers to 10 schools. See Key Activities of Fiscal 2010: Raising Environmental Awareness (Page 59) Circle of Life Environmental Education program (Japanese version only) (http://www.daikin.co.jp/csr/edu/index.html) 221 Responsibility to Stakeholders Other Educational Activities in Japan Site Activity Overview, results Support for the Sakai Rugby School The Kanaoka Factory lends its field three times a month to the Sakai Rugby School. In fiscal 2010, about 130 elementary and junior high school rugby players took part. Sakai Plant Factory tours to educate local elementary school students about working society In fiscal 2010, 364 students from three schools took tours. Factory tours to educate elementary schools in the city about local industry In fiscal 2010, 156 students from one school took tours. Shiga Plant Daikin opened up its field to the public to use for baseball, Daikin field opened to the public pitch-and-putt golf, softball, and other activities. Daikin invited children from day care centers to see the cherry blossoms in the plant's front garden. Others The tennis courts and other facilities were opened to the public. Classes were held three times a week, with 10 students each Kendo Training Hall for Children time. Factory tours for local elementary schools In fiscal 2010, 148 students from two schools took tours. Yodogawa Plant On weekends, the field was opened for the general public to Yodogawa Plant field opened to the public (Contract with use. governments of Osaka Prefecture and Settsu City) The new field was open for use by the sports clubs of Osaka Prefectural Settsu High School. In the autumn of 2010, students in the upper grades did Kashima Plant Daikin employees give lessons at local elementary schools experiments on fluorochemicals. On weekends and holidays, children and teenagers used the Soka Station Activities plaza of the field opened to the public field for sports, while the activities plaza was used for pitchand-putt golf. Support for junior high school field trips Daikin gave lessons at schools focusing on how air Tsukuba conditioners cool the air and the effect that substances have Training Center on global warming. In fiscal 2010, 25 students from one school took lessons. 222 Responsibility to Stakeholders Efforts Overseas Daikin Supports Air Conditioner Technical Training in Singapore Daikin Air Conditioning (Singapore) Pte. and the Singapore government jointly developed a training program for the air conditioning industry and has been certified by the government as the training institute at which the program will be run. Because Singapore previously had no government-certified, licensed programs for the air conditioning industry, Daikin Industries developed and implemented the framework and training program for such certification, in the process helping both the government and industry. Providing Thai Students with Education and Job Prospects Daikin Industries (Thailand) Ltd. runs a program in which outstanding students from impoverished regions who cannot afford to attend university receive two years of education at a junior college of technology and, for those interested, a guaranteed job with Daikin upon completion. So far, 38 have completed the program and are working mainly at manufacturing jobs. Also under this program, young employees of Daikin Industries (Thailand) Ltd. eager to gain new knowledge are given the chance to take two years off work to get an education. Lecture for students Practicing on a production line Graduation ceremony Co-sponsorship of Air Conditioning Technology Contest in China Starting in fiscal 2010, Daikin (China) Investment Co., Ltd. now co-sponsors the Daikin Air Conditioning Cup Chinese Air Conditioning University Student Contest. The purpose of the contest is to foster the human resources who will carry the future of the air conditioning industry in China. In fiscal 2010, over 700 students submitted essays and other works on the theme of CO2 reduction and eco-technology. The company's deputy managing director Akitada Kudo, acted as a judge in the competition finals, and technicians from the company's R&D center presented lectures on the latest energy-efficient environmental technology. University students who participated 223 Responsibility to Stakeholders Other Education Efforts Overseas No. of Managed by Activity name Overview Duration participants DENV sponsored internships in human Daikin Europe N.V. resources, sales, and IT-related divisions for Internship program 27 per year (average) (DENV) graduate students in economics and engineering. Under the 'My choice, my future' program Jan. 2011 Factory tours supported by the European Social Fund, DDC 45 June Daikin Device gave factory tours for 45 students. 2012 Czech Republic, s.r.o. (DDC) Accepted two foreign students under an Sept. Overseas internship program international internship program run by the 2 Nov. 2011 NPO AIESEC. Scholarships DIT has a training program for its employees 16 May 2008 and students of technical high schools in (1 employee, May northeast Thailand. 15 students) 2010 Daikin Industries (Thailand) Ltd. Children's Day (DIT) Every year on Children's Day (second Jan. 8, Saturday of January), DIT invites local children 2,570 2011 to an event at the company. In 2007, DCI signed an agreement with a technical high school for long-term internships Daikin Compressor in the northeast of the country, where job Industries Ltd. Long-term internship program 70 8 months opportunities are few. The students took a (DCI) 8-month course to help them become machine engineers. Daikin (China) Cooperated in a contest for university students 4th Daikin Air Conditioning Cup Investment Co., sponsored by the China Refrigeration and More than 700 July 2010 student technical contest Ltd. (DIC) Air-Conditioning Industry Association. O.Y.L. 35 in 2010, 7 in Manufacturing 3-5 Internship program Took in local students on internship program. 2011 (as of Company Sdn. months April) Bhd. (OYLM) McQuay Offered a four-year technical internship Internship program 2 International program. 224 Responsibility to Stakeholders Policy on Environmental Protection Daikin Industries works with the NGO Conservation International in a new reforestation project in Indonesia. Daikin overseas group companies also conduct their own tree-planting activities in efforts to contribute to the absorption of CO2. Efforts in Japan Sakai Plant in Tree-Planting at Forest of Coexistence On reclaimed land in District No. 7-3 of Sakai City, Osaka Prefecture, about 100 hectares of forest have been planted for the Forest of Coexistence, an effort to renew forest land and create a habitat for a variety of life. As of the end of March 2010, about 12,000 seedlings had been planted in an approximately 18,000m2 area. The goal is to take this reclaimed land—built from a bitter legacy of 30 years of industrial waste— and give it life by making it into an urban environment where a range of life forms can thrive. In April 2009, the first Forest Day was held with participation from citizens of Osaka Prefecture. A number of employees from Daikin Industries' Sakai Plant took part as volunteers, and the Certificate of appreciation company received a letter of thanks from the Sakai municipal government. from Sakai City Sakai's Cool City Sakai initiative is its proclamation to create a low-carbon metropolis, and Daikin has been on the executive committee since 2009. Our goal is to work with local NPOs, citizens' groups, and the government as a good corporate citizen of Sakai. Efforts Overseas Indonesia: Promoting Reforestation (Re: AIRCON Project) Daikin Industries works with the Indonesia Ministry of Forestry and the NGO Conservation International in a reforestation project in which seedlings are raised and planted in a national park in Indonesia. Daikin Air Conditioning Reforestation Project (Re: AIRCON Project) (http://www.daikin.com/csr/environment/reforestation/index.html) Italy: Tree-Planting to Absorb CO2 from Business Activities Daikin Airconditioning Italy S.p.A (DACI) has taken part in the Impatto Zero Project since 2005. The project calls on Italian companies and organizations (over 500 are taking part so far) to plant enough trees to absorb the CO2 that they emit through their business activities. Since 2005, DACI has planted trees in national parks in Costa Rica and Italy over an area of approximately 2.3 km2. DACI took this project one step further in fiscal 2007 by pledging to plant enough trees to absorb the CO2 emitted as a result of using the Ururu Sarara residential air conditioners purchased by DACI customers in Italy. 225 Responsibility to Stakeholders Thailand: Planting Mangrove Trees Daikin Compressor Industries Ltd. (DCI) plants mangrove trees. Mangroves prevent shoreline erosion and coastal flooding, purify the seawater, and provide a home to a variety of marine life and thus protect biodiversity of the ocean. But mangroves around the world have been cut down in recent years to make way for human development. DCI has been planting mangrove trees since 2007 and in fiscal 2010 planted more than 8,000 trees. In DCI's home of Amata City, the company has been striving to reduce the environmental impact of its plant operations by taking part in city-sponsored tree-planting projects as well as tree-planting projects on Mother's Day and Father's Day. Thailand: Planting Endangered Tree Species From fiscal 2009, Daikin Industries (Thailand) Ltd. has been planting endangered species of trees on the grounds of the Kaset Suwan Temple (Wat Kaset Suwan) about 100 km away from the company plant. In fiscal 2010, approximately 250 trees were planted, making about 700 in total since the project began. This new forest will be used as a nature classroom for children and as a meditation spot for the monks. Planting endangered species of trees Other Tree-Planting Activities Overseas Protecting coral reefs (Siam Planting trees (Daikin Trading Planting trees (OYL Daikin Sales Co., Ltd.) [Thailand] Ltd.) Manufacturing) 226 Responsibility to Stakeholders Philosophy We want to be a good corporate citizen by being keen to the problems of the communities we operate in and conducting activities that lead to solutions. Employees at regional Daikin bases have planned ways to interact with local communities. Employees will continue to be front and center by listening to the needs of the community: this will make Daikin a known and trusted member of local society. Supporting Employment of People with Disabilities Promoting Employment of People with Disabilities across the Entire Group The Daikin Group strives to hire the disabled based on its policy of providing opportunities for disabled people to grow personally and make contributions to society through production activities. In 1993, Daikin Industries established Daikin Sunrise Settsu Co., Ltd., a cooperative venture with the Osaka Prefecture and Settsu City governments. Disabled persons form the nucleus of the workforce and the company has operated profitably. For more information, please see Employment of People with Disabilities (Responsibility to Employees) (Page 186) Building Trust with Communities Responding Sincerely to Opinions from Local Communities Each company site has an office or representative assigned to promote communication with local communities. Assigned personnel hold regular meetings with local community representatives and take other measures to proactively promote company-community interactions and receive any community complaints. Designees at each company site look into complaints and suggestions from local community members and, if necessary, discuss them to the relevant departments of the Headquarters, and then make a sincere effort to respond. 227 Responsibility to Stakeholders Correspondence between Company Sites and Local Community Members Site Type of Correspondence Group meeting with local community association (once yearly) Community interactions via municipal government, police, fire departments, and labor standards office Sakai Plant: Participation in the Sakai City environmental executive committee Hosting Senboku Shodo Network ( Shodo Osaka regional division) community cleanup projects and co-sponsoring area-adoption 10th anniversary event Local community association board factory tour Visits to local businesses and neighboring community association boards Shiga Plant: Interactions with relevant public offices and affiliated organizations (attendance at general meetings and board meetings with the municipal office, police, fire departments, and other related departments) Local community association board factory tour and group meeting (once yearly) Exchange with local community association (4 times a year) Yodogawa Plant: Topic-based group meetings with municipal government, police, fire departments, and labor standards office, etc. Providing human resources and other assistance for various local community activities Community residents & administrative board factory tour Kashima Plant: Attendance at enterprise association administrative board meetings Meetings and talks with municipal government and nearby neighborhood associations Soka Station: Participation in the Soka City Environmental Committee Participation in fire department, police, and industry associations A Safe Plant Open to the Community The Daikin Group does all it can to make its plants safe so that nearby residents can live in peace of mind. When there is noise or vibration from operations of a plant, we set up a number that residents can call so that we can quickly deal with any complaints. In particular, we make safety a top priority at the Yodogawa Plant, a chemical production facility located in a residential area. Through efforts such as risk assessment and near-miss training, we strive to eliminate the potential causes of disasters and accidents. We hold disaster prevention drills three times a year in cooperation with local authorities, and we have protocols for informing the authorities of any emergencies. At the Sakai Plant, in addition to talks with the local community association once a year, we are in close contact with the municipal government, police, fire fighting bureau, and labor standards office to maintain interactions with the local community and establish the Sakai Plant as a safe factory. At the Kashima Plant, which is located within an industrial complex, we engage in emergency drills and disaster prevention workshops together with other companies within the industrial complex. At the Soka Station, Daikin works towards safety and peace of mind for residents through activities with the local traffic safety association and crime prevention association. The Shiga Plant conducts regular emergency drills within the plant and also participates in the regional Fire-fighting Games and Comprehensive Disaster Management Training Corporate Games. 228 Responsibility to Stakeholders Disaster Preparedness and Disaster Prevention Drills The Daikin Group has measures in place should there ever be a natural disaster. Besides providing its factories as evacuation shelters in the event of a disaster, Daikin companies have supplies of food, water, and emergency equipment. Also, Daikin factory employees participate in joint emergency training activities with local fire departments, police, and industry groups. At the Sakai Plant, which is located by the sea, we have established codes of practice in case of tidal waves and tsunami. Furthermore, the plant has conducted nighttime drills in emergency contact, early response, and evacuation for night-shift work stations. The Shiga Plant has entered an agreement with the local government to provide aid such as participating in fire-fighting operations should a disaster occur. In the event of a disaster, the plant will dispatch its industrial medics and its fire brigade and will open its factory grounds as evacuation sites. At the Yodogawa Plant, we reinforced buildings to withstand a magnitude 6 earthquake and secured factory shelving and other furnishings to prevent overturning, thereby protecting employees and minimizing the impact damaged facilities would have on surrounding residents. We also have safety confirmation systems that can confirm the whereabouts and safety of all employees on-site within 20 minutes. At the Kashima Plant, a typhoon measures conference meets when storms are approaching to come up with ways to ensure safe plant operation and temporary shut-down. The Soka Station, Soka City, and five neighboring communities signed an agreement to cooperate in preparing for natural disasters, in which all parties come up with measures to implement immediately following a major earthquake. An expert panel of the Central Disaster Management Council of the Japanese government's Cabinet Office recognized the Soka Station as an outstanding example of a corporation acting as a bridge between local citizens and local government in supporting disaster relief. The Soka Station was also cited as an outstanding example at a United Nations conference on international disaster strategy in fiscal 2008. Donations for the Great East Japan Earthquake (Page 36) Participation in Volunteer Fire Fighting and Organizing a Regional Emergency Response Fire Brigade to Respond to Disasters by (Yodogawa Plant) Thirteen employees at the Yodogawa Plant are taking part in fire-fighting activities as volunteer fire fighters for Settsu City, comprising a special firefighting team . Unlike full-time firefighters who are on call all day, every day in case of fires, members of the Settsu City volunteer fire unit are locals who have other jobs. This means these people cannot always get away from their day jobs to fight fires. In response, Settsu City introduced fire departments with separate functions so that more personnel would be available on weekdays. Daikin and two other companies in Settsu with fire engines are taking part. Joined the special firefighting team of Settsu City As of January 2010, in the event of a major fire outbreak within the Setsu region, Daikin fire fighters drive fire engines to the scene and provide support under the direction of the Settsu City Fire Department. This is the first time in Japan that a corporate fire fighting unit is using its fire engines to help fight fires nearby, and it is drawing the attention of other local governments around the country. Also, Daikin has organized a regional emergency response fire brigade to be ready to respond in the event of a disaster. There are 140 local employees enrolled in this volunteer fire brigade, and in the event of an emergency, those who are at their residences or at work or otherwise available can form a response team as occasion demands. Safety and Disaster Prevention at Plants (Japan) (Page 234) Contributing to Local Safety (Japan) (Page 236) 229 Responsibility to Stakeholders Interactions with Local Communities (Japan) Deepening Interactions with Local Communities Daikin realizes the importance of interacting with local residents as a member of the community. In 1973, Daikin became one of the first companies to create a Local Community Section within its organization, through which it has been deepening interactions with local communities. The Local Community Section has now been constructively dissolved, and instead, each company plant makes efforts to interact directly with local communities. Daikin's goal is to be a good corporate citizen that creates closeness among all people and works with communities in order to enrich lives and lifestyles. We will continue to value our relationship with nearby citizens and strive to be a company known and loved for its contributions to society. Also as part of efforts to be a trusted and valuable member of society, we hold factory tours, summer festivals, and other events to promote communication and understanding between Daikin and communities. Deepening Community Relations at the Summer Bon Dance Festival The Daikin-sponsored traditional Bon dance festival is a major event attracting large crowds of locals every summer. Employees make the most of this chance to bring joy to citizens in this corporate-sponsored traditional Japanese event. It has become such a successful example of corporate citizenship that it has been reported in news around the world. The Bon dance festival began in 1971 as a social gathering for young employees of our Yodogawa Plant, and later expanded into a program open to the community and eventually Daikin Festival (Daikin grew to encompass the entire area. Today, the event attracts 25,000 participants and has America) evolved into one of Japan's largest corporate-sponsored Bon dance events. It is now established as a much-anticipated major summer event in the region. The 39th Yodogawa Plant Bon dance festival in fiscal 2010 was an enjoyable event for employees and local community members, with such highlights as an eco-candle display created by neighborhood children's groups, and hip-hop dance routines performed by neighborhood children. Special Guests, Setsu City Mayor Kazumasa Moriyama and Osaka City Mayor Kunio Hiramatsu, applauded the festival as an event that links community and industry. Bon dance community festivals are held at all Daikin bases in Japan. At the event at the Sakai Plant, local citizens' groups have stalls selling food and other goods. Locals take center stage as performances by high school brass bands and elementary school traditional dance troupes liven the proceedings. At the Shiga Plant, 7,800 local residents and industry associates participated in the festival. At the Kashima Plant, local taiko (Japanese drum) groups perform to help keep this traditional art alive. At the Soka Station, approximately 4,000 residents participate in the festival every year. Employees within the Tokyo Branch area apply to work at the Bon dance festival and gain valuable experience in dealing with the public. The Bon dance has also spread to Daikin's overseas bases: employees at our bases in the United States (Daikin America), China (Daikin Shanghai), and Belgium (Daikin Europe) organize Bon dance events for locals. At Daikin Europe, local members of the taiko (Japanese drum) team delighted about 2,000 locals with a spirited performance of this traditional art. The Decatur Plant of Daikin America in Alabama holds a festival intended to introduce more people to Japanese culture. For this event, the plant distributes specially designed traditional Japanese happi coats (anglicized as happy coats ). Participants also enjoy the food stalls selling delicacies such as yakisoba and takoyaki. Now a major event attracting 10,000 visitors, the festival gains in popularity every year thanks to its friendly, welcoming atmosphere. By introducing people to Bon dance and other interesting and fun aspects of Japanese culture, such events help residents near Daikin bases understand our corporate culture and philosophy. 230 Responsibility to Stakeholders Support for Rugby School All for one, and one for all. This indomitable spirit, typical of rugby players, carries lessons that Daikin seeks to impart to children. With this in mind, Daikin, the City of Sakai, the Sakai Higashi Police Department, Seikeikai Hospital, and Nippon Steel collaborated in 1987 to launch Sakai Rugby School. Daikin supports the rugby school's activities through provision of a playing field and other means. At the three monthly practices at the Kanaoka playing field, the children's cheering reflects discipline combined with fun. The Sakai Rugby School is among the toughest competitors in its games against other schools. Kendo Training Hall for Children The Kendo Training Hall for Children opened in 1975 for elementary school children living near the Yodogawa Plant. The goal of the school is to promote health through the martial art of kendo. Daikin employees who hold kendo rankings (dan) provide the instruction. When the school opened, expectations were exceeded when 108 children applied. Clearly, the school has been well received by local residents. In 1983, a new school —more than double the size of the original— was completed. Named Yushinkan by then-president Minoru Yamada, the school has since helped many young local kendo enthusiasts gain skills in this outstanding sport. Excited young voices can often be heard within its walls. Conducting Neighborhood Cleanup and Tree-planting Activities Employees at the Daikin plants in Yodogawa, Shiga, Sakai, and Kashima regularly pick up litter and pull up weeds in the surrounding areas. The Yodogawa Plant has a monthly litter pickup involving approximately 100 employees, and approximately 30 employees takes part in a yearly cleanup of local ditches in efforts to beautify the area around the plant. At the Shiga Plant, employees join in local neighborhood cleanups four times a year, and in fiscal 2010, employees planted 40 cherry trees within the Daikin Industries (Thailand) Ltd. beach cleanup activity factory grounds. The plant also donated six mature cherry trees to Kusatsu City. Through these activities, the plant is helping to create a greener environment. At Daikin Industries (Thailand) Ltd., 42 employees participated in a beach cleanup activity in December 2010. Local Cleanup Activities (Japan) (Page 238) Conducting Factory tours We open our plants to the community by conducting tours for the local community association and elementary school children. In fiscal 2010, Sakai Plant conducted factory tours for 364 students of three elementary schools. The Yodogawa Plant conducted factory tours for 148 students of two elementary schools, which were extolled by the teachers, who remarked that the children were delighted to see a model car running on fuel-cell batteries and an experiment in which a liquid substance transform into a white powder. The Shiga Plant also conducted tours for 156 students of one elementary school in Kusatsu city, for which the students sent letters of appreciation. We will continue to conduct such tours at each of our factories. 231 Responsibility to Stakeholders Interactions with Local Communities (Overseas) Aiming to Take Root in China On the occasion of the Daikin Group's 10th anniversary of business in China in 2005, full-fledged social contribution activities were begun in earnest with the aim of making Daikin a locally rooted company. Daikin aims to contribute in the three areas of social welfare, education, and environment. Examples of Contributions 1. Social welfare contributions Established a division in the plant in Shanghai to employ mainly people with disabilities for the purpose of furthering employment of the disabled. 2. Education contributions Created the Daikin Future Air Grand Prize to further air-conditioning technology and foster human resources in China. 3. Environmental contributions As a dedicated air-conditioner manufacturer, Daikin is active in creating standards related to the environment, energy conservation, and air-conditioners Other Regional Independent Activities A factory tour for high school A factory tour (Daikin students (Daikin Industries Czech Compressor Industries, Ltd.) Republic s.r.o.) Regional Independent Activities (Overseas) (Page 240) Charitable Activities Donating to a Range of Causes: Art, Culture, Sport, Education, Etc. The Daikin Group donates money to numerous arts, Donations in FY2010 (Daikin Industries only) culture, sports, and educational programs as part of its social contribution efforts. Besides donating on a regular basis for the promotion of culture and sports in Okinawa and the Daikin Industries Foundation to Promote Modern Art, we have in recent years been giving more to international exchange and cooperation causes as we strive to contribute to societies around the world. 232 Responsibility to Stakeholders Daikin Aids Victims of Natural Disaster Daikin Group gives donations to help victims and contribute to restoration following earthquakes and other natural disasters. Aid for Victims of Natural Disasters in FY2010 Quinhai Earthquake in China In April 2010, the Daikin Group (Daikin Industries, along with group companies in China including Daikin [China] Investment Co., Ltd. and McQuay Air Conditioning) donated a total of 1.25 million yuan (approximately $184,500) to earthquake relief through the Shanghai Red Cross and other organizations. Thailand Northeast and Central Floods In October 2010, Daikin Compressor Industries, Ltd. and Daikin Trading Thailand, Ltd. donated aid supplies to areas affected by flooding and water damage due to torrential rainfall in northeast and central Thailand. New Zealand Christchurch Earthquake In March 2011, Daikin Industries and Daikin Australia, Ltd. donated a total of ¥15 million through the Japanese Red Cross and Australian Red Cross. Great East Japan Earthquake In March 2011, Daikin Group donated ¥100 million and aid supplies (600 industrial air purifiers, 500 far-infrared heaters) (total value: ¥300 million), and assisted in environmental improvements at evacuation shelters and medical facilities, etc. Daikin also delivered donations from employees to the disaster areas. Helping the Needy McQuay International (U.S.) has a charity program in which employees and their families make donations to the needy in their communities. Over 200 employees and their Donating food for needy families. family members took part in a Food items donated by program to donate Christmas employees were distributed to presents to the needy. more than 1,000 people. 233 Responsibility to Stakeholders Safety and Disaster Prevention Activities at Plants (Japan) Site Activity Overview, results Formation of in-house firefighting The plants formed an in-house firefighting division, and in Sakai Plant unit each division a firefighting unit was formed. Formation of in-house firefighting The plants formed an in-house firefighting division, and in Shiga Plant unit each division a firefighting unit was formed. Joined the special firefighting team of Settsu City Thirteen employees from the Yodogawa Plant joined the Support for firefighting special firefighting team of Settsu City, which is the first Yodogawa of its kind in Japan. Since January 2010, in the case of a Plant large fire in the Settsu area, the Yodogawa Plant firefighters drive their fire engine to the scene and help under the guidance of the Settsu City Fire Department. Formation of in-house firefighting A firefighting unit was formed in each division, and these Tokyo Office unit are overseen by the Health and Safety Committee. The Sakai Plant is a member of an association of 17 companies in the Sakai and Senboku waterfront areas for Cooperation with neighboring Sakai Plant disaster prevention. The association has an emergency companies communication network and meets regularly for various drills. Daikin helps the local government to rescue disaster victims. Formation of a rescue support Shiga Plant The plant is provided for use as an emergency shelter for system for local disaster victims nearby residents (for example, the field is opened up to the public). There are 140 employees living nearby who are Communication with Yodogawa An emergency rescue team was registered. When necessary, a team is gathered by neighboring Plant formed rounding up employees either from their homes or companies and workplace. residents To administrate local matters, Daikin joins with local Kashima Communication with neighboring companies to be the contact point for local government Plant companies and citizens. An agreement for made between the Soka Station, Soka Soka City, and five neighboring towns. These three groups Regional disaster agreement Station have agreed to work together regularly on plans to implement after major earthquakes occur. The center is a member of an association of companies Tsukuba Cooperation with neighboring in the local industrial park, which shares information on Training companies topics like environmental promotion, fire prevention, and Center blood donation activities. 234 Responsibility to Stakeholders Site Activity Overview, results Secured emergency supplies such as water, food, and Secure supplies for emergencies fire prevention equipment. Daikin is registered as a corporate supporter of Lend equipment to disaster relief firefighting activities. (In emergencies, Daikin lends Sakai Plant equipment like forklifts.) Employees working night shifts conduct drills in Evacuation training drills emergency communication, initial response, and evacuation. The plant makes effective use of site equipment (fire engines, firefighting equipment; sends employees as well). Use of equipment during disasters, Sufficient supplies have been set aside for all local and secure supplies for residents for residents in case of a major earthquake. Use equipment during emergencies Emergency materials and equipment are placed in all disasters, and secure major buildings. supplies for emergencies Yodogawa Plant At a meeting during a factory tour, participants confirm that there are enough emergency supplies stored Shiga Emergency supplies are stocked (megaphones, Secure supplies for emergencies Plant flashlights, food and water, etc.). Emergency supplies are stocked (megaphones, Tokyo Secure emergency supplies, hold flashlights, food and water, etc.); these are inspected Office evacuation training drills regularly. Established code of conduct for tsunami disaster Measures against tidal wave and response, and secured emergency supplies. tsunami All buildings on-site have been inspected for earthquake Sakai Plant Earthquake reinforcement and resistance. Reinforcement work is proceeding as evacuation training drills planned. Evacuation training drills were held. All buildings on-site have been inspected for earthquake resistance. Building structures are being reinforced. Earthquake measures Shiga Make buildings earthquake-proof, hold Fiscal 2009 drills were held in June, September, and Plant evacuation drills November. Evacuation training drills were also held. In fiscal 2009, buildings were reinforced to withstand a magnitude 6 earthquake, which can endanger Yodogawa Make buildings earthquake-proof employees and nearby residents. Plant Shelves in the factory were secured to prevent them from falling over. A meeting was held to examine measures to take in Kashima Typhoon measures Meeting on typhoon measures case of a typhoon. Preventative measures were drawn Plant up for safe operation or stoppage of machinery. A system was established that can confirm the safety of employees approximately 20 minutes after a disaster Yodogawa Safety confirmation system occurs. Safety confirmation Plant Emergency materials and equipment for searching and system restoration are placed in all major buildings. Tokyo Established a system for confirming the safety of Safety confirmation system Office employees after a disaster occurs. 235 Responsibility to Stakeholders Contributing to local safety (Japan) Site Activity Overview, results Daikin worked with the Kinki Regional Police Bureau in a safety patrol campaign. Head Office Support for local safety activities Took part in the Sonezaki traffic safety association. Daikin took part in the North Sakai Police Crime Prevention Committee and the Support for local safety activities North/West Sakai Traffic Safety Association. Sakai Plant Children's protection shelter The Sakai Plant is registered as a place children can take sanctuary from threats. Took part in disaster prevention drills sponsored by an association of companies in Disaster training the Sakai and Senboku waterfront areas for disaster prevention. Disaster training was held once a year for the plant grounds and employee Disaster training dormitory; fire hydrant usage competition held (July); plant disaster training held (June, November); evacuation training for earthquakes held. Participation in the Fire The Shiga Plant took part in a disaster prevention training convention in unison with Prevention Association the fire department. Participation in local safety activities Shiga Plant In October, the Shiga Plant took part in a firefighting competition. In November, it took part in joint disaster training for private companies. Letter of agreement signed for Under this agreement, the Shiga Plant will dispatch industrial physicians and its support of fire prevention in in-house fire-fighting unit, and offer the plant as an evacuation shelter. case of disaster Thirteen employees from the Yodogawa Plant joined the special firefighting team of Settsu City, which is the first of its kind in Japan. Since January 2010, in the case Special firefighting team of of a large fire in the Settsu area, the Yodogawa Plant firefighters drive their fire Settsu City engine to the scene and help under the guidance of the Settsu City Fire Department. Joint disaster training held (with participation of local fire and police departments) Control damage, confirm people's safety (evacuation), hold earthquake training, hold disaster training (3 times a year) Installed breathing apparatus, held fire hydrant usage competition (once a year). Yodogawa Plant Participated in disaster training held by Osaka Prefecture and Settsu City (once a year). Participation in local safety Took part in nighttime patrols. activities Took part in nationwide awareness activities for fire prevention (in spring and autumn). Took part in nationwide traffic safety campaign. Held driving safety seminars for suppliers (stressed on-site road safety; twice a Held safety seminars year). Invited police officer to give employees driving safety seminar (once a year) The Yodogawa Plant is registered as a place children can take sanctuary from Children's protection shelter threats. 236 Responsibility to Stakeholders Site Activity Overview, results Held disaster training (twice a year), joined fire hydrant usage training (once a Disaster training year) Joint disaster training was held with the fire department as part of cooperation among companies in the industrial park (once a year). As part of cooperation among companies, once-a-year training was held with Participation in local safety events firefighters, labor board personnel, and police officers as instructors. The goal was to raise safety and disaster awareness. Kashima Plant Rescue training Participation in disaster training events with the fire department, labor board, and police department. Police officers were invited to be instructors at a traffic safety training conference Safe driving course held (once a year) to help drivers improve their road manners. Campaign to stop drunk driving Traffic safety committee members handed out drunk driving leaflets urging people over the winter season. to follow the rules. Activities were held to raise awareness about safe driving and operation of forklifts Held Safe Work Environment Day and company cars (May 2009). Contest to prevent accidents and The Soka Plant took part in a rules-of-the-road contest held annually by the Police abide by rules of the road Department. (August 2009 January 2010). Soka Station Held disaster training with five neighborhood associations. (April 2010; approx. Disaster training 500 participants) Participation in meeting of Tokyo The Tokyo Office took part in scheduled meetings and training sessions, as well Metropolitan Police Department to as responded to various requests. Tokyo Office prevent organized crime. Participation in local disaster Joined in planning and implementation of disaster training sponsored by the fire training and disaster prevention association of the JR Shinagawa East Building. 237 Responsibility to Stakeholders Local Cleanup Activities (Japan) Site Activity Overview, results Continued participation in Adopt a Road cleanup initiative Under Sakai City's public cleanup campaign, employees took turns cleaning up the streets once a month. The area around the plant and nearby sidewalks were cleaned. At the Kanaoka Plant, employees planted greenery nearby and cleaned up the streets, and employees of the waterfront plants picked up litter on the median dividing the main street. Use of E3 bio-gasoline Sakai Plant Company cars were used in a trial sponsored by Osaka Prefecture. Employees patrolled the plant at night to ensure there was no disturbing noise or vibration that would disturb nearby residents. Anti-noise measures When the sound-proof wall was erected, to make the structure less imposing, a sound-proof glass wall was put up at strategic points, and trees were planted. Employees took part in tree-planting in a seaside district to plant 10,000 trees in the Tree-planting Forest of Coexistence. To improve the view from the adjacent high-rise apartment building, the plant roof Aesthetic measures had its rust removed and was painted. Employees removed weeds that had spread to adjoining public roads and picked up Weeding and cleanup litter. Cleanup Litter was picked up around the plant (4 times a year). Shiga Plant Greenery enhancement Weeding, flower planting, and care for the cherry trees was carried out. To mark the Shiga Plant's 40th anniversary, in fiscal 2010, 40 cherry trees were planted on the premises and cherry trees were donated to Kusatsu City. Cleanup Areas around the site cleaned up (once a month). Employees took part in cleanup of local waterways (once a year). Yodogawa Plant Area around main and west gates (near bus stops) was cleaned up (everyday). Aesthetic improvement of urban Sponsored a 'tulip art' event in Settsu. area 238 Responsibility to Stakeholders Site Activity Overview, results Cleanup around the plant Cleanup staff were sent out (twice a month), cleanup days of plant held (once a month), meeting of activity managers held (once a year). Kashima Plant Took part in cleanup of industrial The association of 24 companies in the industrial park held a cleanup twice a park along with other companies year. Was Yashio City representative at Soka Station Soka City environmental conference 239 Responsibility to Stakeholders Regional Independent Activities (Overseas) Overseas bases in the United States, China (Shanghai), and Belgium are carrying on the tradition of Daikin in Japan by holding a bon dance festival. Employees plan and run the entire event, and participants include not only employees and their families but customers of affiliates and local residents. Besides strengthening bonds among employees, the bon dance festival brings Daikin closer to its affiliates and the local community. Each Daikin base also conducts its own unique social contribution activities and community exchange initiatives. Site Activity Overview, results 50,000 euros was donated through the Donation for Great East Japan Earthquake International Red Cross in March 2011. Daikin Europe N.V. Employees and their families made origami Donation for folded cranes folded paper cranes and donated 1 euro for each crane. DICz employees gave blood a total of 80 Blood donation activities times in 2010 and for this company was recognized by the city of Pilsen. Family Day Daikin Industries Czech republic s.r.o. (DICz) To recognize employee efforts and strengthen relationships, employees' families and friends were invited for a factory tour and other attractions. Donations for Christchurch earthquake and In January 2011, employees and the Queensland flood company made a monetary donation. DAS took part in charity events (Morning Tea, Movember, and Jeans for Genes) Collecting donations supporting cancer and gene research, and Daikin Australia Pty. Ltd. (DAS) patients. Support for sports promotion event, 'Smiling for Smiddy'; camp for children with cancer, Sponsorship of local events 'Camp Quality'; and children's hospital through Cancer Council of Australia. Donation of used PCs Donated 26 PCs to six schools in Brno City. Daikin Device Czech Republic, s.r.o. (DDC) Made donations to cultural events and Sponsorship of local events festivals in Brno City. Blood donation activities Took part in two blood donor clinics a year to Daikin Industries (Thailand) Ltd. (DIT) support the Red Cross. Daikin Fluorochemicals (China) Co., Ltd. Donated 200,000 won to local disabled Donations to charity (DCC) groups. Concert held at Shanghai Expo In October 2010, Daikin Week was held at the Japan Industry Pavilion: a concert was Daikin (China) Investment Co., Ltd. (DIC) held that brought together talented young musicians from Japan and China. An audience of about 8,000 attended. 240 Responsibility to Stakeholders Site Activity Overview, results Sports promotion Made donations to local school sports Daikin Chemical Europe GmbH (DCE) activities. Sponsored a quarterly publication on Daikin Chemical Netherlands B.V. (DCN) Support for health activities rheumatism, donated coloring books to a children's hospital. Open house In October 2010, the company held an open O.Y.L. Manufacturing Company Sdn. Bhd. house with events for 1,700 guests including (OYLM) employees, their families, and orphans. A donation was made to an orphanage. Donation to camp at which children learn bicycle safety, how to prevent injuries, and how to safely use electricity, fire, and water. Owatonna Plant Supported kid's safety camp Employees volunteered as camp coordinators. In June 2010, 50 employees took part. Donation to youth program at the River Bend Nature Center in Minnesota. The money is Provided operational funds to the River Bend Faribault Plant used for education on environmental Nature Center. protection and for facilities operation. In March 2011, $250 was donated. In September 2010, 20 employees took part in this event sponsored by the American Took part in the Heart Walk. Heart Association to support research into Staunton Plant heart disease. Similar to Toys for Tots, this program McQuay Took part in the Salvation Army Angel Tree provides needy families with Christmas International Program. presents. Volunteered for People Serving People. McQuay employees volunteered for People Plymouth Office Serving People, a program for assisting homeless families. In September 2010, low-income seniors and the disabled were provided with free Conducted maintenance of appliances. cleaning, inspection, and maintenance of Service Division their appliances. A total of $5,600 was donated to hospitals, Made donation to a charity organization. schools, and other institutions. 241 Responsibility to Stakeholders Site Activity Overview, results Took part in Toys for Tots. Employees took part in Toys for Tots, a nationwide program sponsored by the U.S. Owatonna Plant, Faribault Navy in which presents are given to children Plant whose families cannot afford Christmas presents. Employees donated $355 and dolls. McQuay International Employees donated to a range of food bank Faribault Plant, Staunton Made donation to food bank. programs, which support needy families with Plant, Service Division food donations. Faribault Plant, Staunton Employees donated blood at blood donor Took part in blood donor clinic. Plant clinics. 242 Responsibility to Stakeholders Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2011 −Web version− Data 243 Data Pages focusing on environmental performance information and social performance indicators can be found here. Companies covered by data: D Daikin Industries JG Including group in Japan OG Overseas group companies only OJG Including group companies in Japan and overseas Quality & Customer Satisfaction Number of Inquiries to the Contact Center JG (thousands) 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 Repair inquiries 842 815 827 794 735 910 Technical advice 414 507 534 575 658 813 Parts inquiries 304 326 328 323 332 359 Others 109 96 104 60 56 58 Number of Compliance Violations, Countermeasures JG FY2010 Details 0 No laws or regulations were broken Low-Impact Products Materials Used JG (tons) 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 Iron 69,888 65,585 69,178 57,512 40,637 49,972 Copper 14,397 22,172 24,358 18,684 15,698 14,766 Aluminium 10,771 15,314 16,797 13,319 8,962 9,031 Refrigerants 4,165 4,228 4,254 3,711 2,872 3,049 Plastics 8,626 11,552 13,712 13,928 9,147 11,343 Chemicals (PRTR14,967 140,212 132,743 102,322 92,325 98,198 designated) Packaging 8,767 11,613 9,778 9,644 7,579 10,857 244 Data Recycling of Residential Air Conditioners JG 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 Residential air conditioners collected by 4 major manufacturers (including Daikin) (units: 1,990 11,620 1,890 1,970 2,150 3,140 1,000) Residential air conditioners collected by Daikin only (units: 1,000) 120 120 130 140 166 249 Amount recycled (tons) 5,508 5,218 4,702 5,294 5,927 8,648 Recycling ratio (%) 83 84 84 85 84 84 Iron (%) 40 49 47 44 42 42 Copper (%) 7 9 9 8 8 8 (Breakdown) Aluminium (%) 6 7 6 8 7 7 Mixture of non-ferrous and iron composite materials (%) 26 28 31 32 34 34 Other valuable materials (%) 5 7 7 8 9 9 Refrigerants recovered (tons) 72 69 76 85 100 145 Daikin Eco Products as Percentage of All Products JG (%) 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 Daikin Eco Products 87（Previous Standard) 90 92 14 (New Standard) 39 96 Note: We revised our voluntary environmental standards in FY2008. Low-Impact Production FY2010 for OYL : Data for O.Y.L. Industries Bhd. and its subsidiaries, which the Daikin Group acquired in FY2006. 1) Greenhouse Gas Emissions Greenhouse Gas Emissions for the Entire Group (Production) OJG (10,000 tons-CO2) Base year* 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 OYL2010 CO2 (Energy) 15 43 47 47 44 41 48 7.8 HFC 946 72 66 49 26 18 10 0.5 PFC 72 168 140 83 25 24 17 0 Total 1,033 283 253 178 94 83 75 8.3 * CO2: 1990, HFC and PFC: 1995 Note that since not all calculations have been completed, the following data is not included in the base year data: CO2 emissions from overseas energy consumption and fluorocarbon emissions in the machinery divisions. HFC, PFC Emissions and Global Warming Impact OJG (tons) 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 OYL2010 HFC 198.9 150.8 247.5 113.7 71.2 45.0 0.5 PFC 199.2 164.7 100.2 31.2 28.6 20.5 0 Global warming impact with FY2005 set as 100% 86% 55% 21% 18% 11% 100% (%) 245 Data CFC, HCFC Emissions and Global Warming Impact OJG (tons) 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 OYL2010 CFC 3.1 2.2 0.7 0.3 0.1 0.4 0 HCFC 839.6 447.4 381.8 346.2 234.7 300.0 0.2 Global warming impact with FY2005 set as 100% 59% 50% 44% 30% 37% 100% (%) Total CO2 Emissions OJG (10,000 tons-CO2) 2000 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 OYL2010 Japan 18.7 17.9 18.9 17.4 14.7 14.0 15.3 Overseas 12.4 25.4 28.0 29.2 28.5 26.8 32.7 7.8 Total 31.2 43.3 47.0 46.6 43.3 40.8 48.0 7.8 CO2 Emissions per Sales OJG (tons per 100 million yen) 2000 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 Emissions per sales 59 55 52 44 44 47 50 (consolidated) CO2 Emissions per Sales from Transportation (Air-conditioning) D (%) 2001 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 CO2 emissions per sales with FY2001 set 100 82 80 72 74 72 71 as 100% Recovered Fluorocarbons (at time of repair and at time of disposal) D (tons) 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 Recovered fluorocarbons at time 52.5 44.3 36.3 41.3 34.4 38.8 of disposal Recovered fluorocarbons at time 245.4 245.4 299.5 335.0 314.6 306.4 of repair 2) Energy Consumption Energy Consumption D 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 Electricity (MWh) 161,289 172,376 162,628 145,850 133,472 141,294 City Gas (m3) 42,420,000 43,300,000 45,000,000 37,240,000 35,660,000 40,705,739 LPG (tons) 0 0 131 0 45 58 Steam (GJ) 305,396 353,382 334,637 256,617 235,670 269,176 Petroleum (kl) 471 496 459 471 547 521 246 Data 3) Green Procurement Green Procurement Rate (Japan) JG (%) 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 Green procurement 97 (Previous Standard) 80 (New Standard) 95 97 99 99 rate Green Procurement Rate by Region*1 OJG (%) 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 Japan 97 80 95 97 99 99 Thailand 85 97 97 China 79 89 89 Europe 69 63 82 Other countries in 85 85 Asia and Oceania North America 45 *1 Green procurement rate= Value of goods procured from suppliers who meet our assessment criteria / Value of all goods procured *2 New standard starting in fiscal FY2006 4) Water Water Used OJG (10,000 m3) 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 OYL2010 Japan 354 337 326 292 302 254 Overseas 323 331 334 323 302 347 66 Total 677 668 660 615 604 601 66 Waste Water OJG (10,000 m3) 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 OYL2010 Japan 305 272 247 219 206 200 Overseas 260 276 288 268 238 265 29 Total 565 548 535 487 444 465 29 5) Water Pollutant and Air Pollutant Emissions Water Pollutant Emissions D (tons) 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 COD 17 17 14 12 7 6 Water Pollutant Emissions JG (tons) 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 COD 17 18 15 13 9 6 247 Data Water Pollutant Emissions OG (tons) 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 COD 881 909 992 925 928 978 Air Pollutant Emissions D (tons) 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 NOx 44 53 49 49 63 27 SOx 0.8 0.5 0.4 0.4 0.0 0.0 VOC 294 306 132 43 32 56 Air Pollutant Emissions JG (tons) 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 NOx 44 54 50 50 63 27 SOx 0.8 1.2 1.4 1.3 0 0 VOC 298 311 137 48 35 59 Air Pollutant Emissions OG (tons) 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 NOx 84 98 82 78 55 100 SOx 36 42 20 10 6 14 VOC 406 439 304 184 105 133 6) Chemical Substance Emissions Release of Substances Designated by PRTR Law D (tons) 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 Release of substances designated by PRTR 931 558 341 201 115 121* Law Note: Under revisions to the Pollutant Release and Transfer Register Law (effective October 1, 2009), the number of designated substances increased from 354 to 462. 248 Data Compilation of PRTR Substances (PRTR substances of which at least 1 ton was handled) JG 2010 Amount transported Amount emitted (tons) (tons) Substance name Public Air Soil Sewage Waste waterways Chlorodifluoromethane (also called HCFC-22) 50.61 0.00 0.00 4.48 0.00 Dichloromethane (also called methylene chloride) 47.60 0.00 0.00 0.01 0.00 1-chloro-1,1-difluoroethane (also called HCFC-142b) 12.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 Normal hexane 3.66 0.00 0.00 1.30 0.00 Toluene 3.36 0.00 0.00 0.04 0.00 2-Chloro-1,1,1,2-tetrafluoroethane (also called HCFC-124) 1.40 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 Xylene 0.91 0.00 0.00 0.07 0.00 Chloroform 0.80 0.00 0.00 0.03 0.00 Ethylbenzene 0.24 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 Hydrogen fluoride and other water-soluble salts 0.23 0.00 0.00 110.00 0.00 Acetonitrile 0.01 0.00 0.00 0.92 0.03 N,N-dimethylformamide 0.00 0.00 0.00 3.30 0.00 Allyl alcohol 0.00 0.00 0.00 1.60 0.00 Polyoxyethylene alkyl ether (those whose alkyl group carbon number is between 0.00 0.00 0.00 120.00 0.50 12 and 15, or compounds of these) Acrylic acid 0.00 0.00 0.00 21.00 0.00 2-aminoethanol 0.00 0.00 0.00 5.13 0.00 Antimony and antimony compounds 0.00 0.00 0.00 4.80 0.00 Polyoxyethylene octyl phenyl ether 0.00 0.00 0.00 3.70 0.03 Hydroquinone 0.00 0.00 0.00 3.10 0.00 3-methylpyridine 0.00 0.00 0.00 1.90 0.00 Water soluble lead compounds 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.93 0.14 Molybdenum and molybdenum compounds 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.02 0.00 Phthalic anhydride 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.01 0.00 Methacrylic acid, 2-ethylhexyl ester 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 Ferric chloride 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 Carbon tetrachloride 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 Styrene 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 Water-soluble salts of peroxodisulfuric acid 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 Total 121 0 0 282 1 7) Waste Amount Recycled and Amount Disposed of (Japan) JG (tons) 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 Disposed 461 507 180 167 59 71 Recycled 30,539 31,469 34,112 33,233 21,784 26,629 249 Data Amount Recycled and Amount Disposed of (Overseas) OG (tons) 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 Disposed 13,635 11,196 13,393 9,080 9,995 13,672 Recycled 13,025 17,713 24,708 22,791 18,470 24,097 8) Calculation Standard Calculation Standard Item Indicator Calculation method Japan Eco-Action 21, formulated by Ministry of the Environment in CO2 emission coefficient for electricity 1998 use Overseas Japan Electrical Manufacturers Association. Japan Eco-Action 21, formulated by Ministry of the Environment in During Greenhouse 1998 production gas emissions CO2 emission coefficient for energy use Overseas Eco-Action 21, formulated by Ministry of the Environment in 1998 Japan CO2 emissions/japan consolidated sales CO2 Emissions per Sales Overseas CO2 emissions/overseas consolidated sales Environmental Management FY2010 for OYL : Data for O.Y.L. Industries Bhd. and its subsidiaries, which the Daikin Group acquired in FY2006. Report from Audits JG 2006 2007 2008 Problems found from Problems found by Problems found from Problems found by Problems found from Problems found by internal environmental third-party certification internal environmental third-party certification internal environmental third-party certification audits institutes audits institutes audits institutes Major 1 0 0 0 0 1 non-conformance Minor 95 0 56 4 31 8 non-conformance Items improved 226 5 192 46 111 71 2009 2010 Problems found from internal Problems found by third-party Problems found from internal Problems found by third-party environmental audits certification institutes environmental audits certification institutes Major 3 0 0 0 non-conformance Minor 99 1 43 0 non-conformance Items improved 214 10 219 5 250 Data Ratio of Employees Belonging to Facilities That Obtained ISO 14001 Certification OJG (%) 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 OYL2010 Japan 100 100 100 100 100 100 Overseas 82 85 95 99 99 96 73 Number of Compliance Violations, Countermeasures OJG FY2010 Details 0 No laws or regulations were broken Employees 1) Number of Employees, Hiring, etc. Employee Composition (Data for Daikin Industries) (Note: Number currently employed) D As of end of March 2007 As of end of March 2008 As of end of March 2009 Men Women Men Women Men Women Number of employees 6,245 695 6,360 816 6,452 868 Average range of services (years) 19.0 12.0 19.0 12.0 18.9 12.0 Average age 42.2 34.3 41.9 32.9 41.6 32.8 Number of managers 958 9 969 12 925 13 Number of board members 41 1 41 1 47 1 Number of foreign nationals 27 28 12 28 12 As of end of March 2010 As of end of March 2011 Men Women Men Women Number of employees 6,558 897 6,717 961 Average range of services (years) 17.9 10.8 17.1 9.96 Average age 41.8 33.6 41.8 34.2 Number of managers 886 14 936 16 Number of board members 45 1 44 1 Number of foreign nationals 27 16 30 21 Employee Make-up by Region OJG 2006 2007 2008 Number of Number of Number of Number of Number of Number of companies employees companies employees companies employees Daikin Industries (Only) 1 5,646 1 5,979 1 6,186 Domestic Group (Excluding Daikin 46 4,214 45 4,231 40 4,432 Industries) China 25 7,476 28 8,387 31 10,551 Southeast Asia, Oceania 41 6,902 41 7,619 41 8,298 Europe, Middle East, Africa 53 5,234 48 5,799 61 6,006 North and South America, Other 25 4,008 30 4,285 29 4,423 Total 191 33,480 193 36,300 203 39,896 251 Data 2009 2010 Number of companies Number of employees Number of companies Number of employees Daikin Industries (Only) 1 6,379 1 6,553 Domestic Group (Excluding Daikin Industries) 42 4,665 40 4,593 China 31 10,072 30 11,434 Southeast Asia, Oceania 40 7,968 35 8,714 Europe, Middle East, Africa 58 5,654 56 5,798 North and South America, Other 27 4,136 30 4,477 Total 199 38,874 192 41,569 Number of Employees Leaving, Employee Turnover D 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 Men 163 168 207 241 225 223 Women 31 38 24 48 36 41 Employee turnover 3.0% 3.1% 3.3% 3.9% 3.5% 3.4% Number of Women Periodically Hired; Percentage of All Employees D 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 Men 127 207 216 242 157 172 Women 83 85 139 52 34 37 Total 210 292 355 294 191 209 Women as % of all 39.5% 29.1% 39.2% 17.7% 17.8% 17.7% employees 2) Occupational Safety and Health Frequency Rate* D 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 Daikin Industries 0.24 0.30 0.07 0.13 0.06 0.73 National average for 1.85 1.95 1.83 1.75 1.62 1.61 all industries National average for manufacturing 1.01 1.02 1.09 1.12 0.99 0.98 industry Note: This shows the frequency of work-related calamities, expressed in number of calamities for every 1,000,000 working hours. Frequency rate = Number of calamities by industrial injuries / Total actual working hours × 1,000,000 Severity Rate* D 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 Daikin Industries 0.01 0.01 0.00 0.06 0.00 0.52 National average for 0.12 0.12 0.11 0.10 0.09 0.09 all industries National average for manufacturing 0.09 0.11 0.10 0.10 0.08 0.09 industry Note: This shows the severity of the calamity, expressed in man-days lost per 1,000 hours worked. Severity rate = Total number of working days lost / Total of actual working hours × 1,000 252 Data 3) Re-employed Workers Number of Re-employed Workers D 2005 2006 2007 Men Women Men Women Men Women Number of retirees 92 0 97 4 112 5 Number of re-employed workers 80 0 84 4 98 3 Percentage re-employed after retiring 87.0% 87.1% 86.3% 2008 2009 2010 Men Women Men Women Men Women Number of retirees 139 6 141 4 132 7 Number of re-employed workers 117 5 118 3 122 4 Percentage re-employed after retiring 84.1% 83.4% 90.6% 4) Disabled People Employed Number of Disabled People Employed* JG 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 Number of disabled 204 205 237 248 264 284 people employed*1 Employment rate*2 2.73% 2.63% 2.13%*3 2.17% 2.27% 2.34 *1 Legally, 1 severely disabled person employed is counted as 2 disabled persons. *2 Employment rate = number of disabled persons employed / number of persons employed *3 Disabled employment rate for only Daikin Industries until FY2006 and for the entire Daikin Group from FY2007 5) Work-Life Balance Leave Before and After Child is Born, Childcare Leave, Leave Taken by Men and Women D 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 Number taking leave before Women 17 16 19 20 30 27 and after child is born Number taking Men 1 1 32 89 74 68 childcare leave Women 27 32 35 33 49 54 Number Taking Family Care Leave D 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 Number taking Men 1 3 0 0 0 4 family care leave Women 0 0 1 0 0 0 253 Data Number of Accidents Resulting in Time Off Work D 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 Accidents resulting in 11 9 12 13 6 17 Number of time off work accidents resulting in Commuting time off work accidents 2 3 2 18 4 4 resulting in time off work Frequency Rate 0.24 0.30 0.07 0.13 0.06 0.73 Severity Rate 0.01 0.01 0.00 0.06 0.00 0.52 Percentage of Employees Taking All Paid Leave D (%) 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 Percentage of Daikin 93.9 92.8 90.2 92.4 90.6 92.8 Industries employees Percentage of Japanese workers in the manufacturing 53.0 54.9 53.1 54.0 54.5 51.6 industry (according to Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare) 6) Patent Applications Number of Patent Applications 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 Japanese applications 1,027 1,337 1,469 1,698 1,069 948 Overaseas 260 297 392 451 309 242 applications Shareholders and Investors Consolidated Sales by Business Segments (%) 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 Air Conditioning/Refrigeration 80.9 82.5 87.7 88.1 88.7 86.6 Equipment Chemicals 13.5 12.8 9.0 8.5 8.4 9.9 Oil Hydraulics, Defense 5.5 4.7 3.3 3.4 2.8 3.5 Systems and Others 254 Data Consolidated Sales by Region (%) 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 Japan 53.6 48.5 35.7 39.6 37.6 38.5 China 14.1 15.7 18.1 19.8 24.1 23.8 Asia and Oceania 12.8 14.0 Europe, Middle East, 22.6 25.8 27.5 25.0 22.4 19.3 and Africa The Americas and 5.7 5.9 12.7 11.6 13.1 12.4 Others Net Sales (¥ billion) 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 Consolidated 792.8 911.7 1,291.1 1,202.4 1,024.0 1,160.3 Non-consolidated 435.2 454.1 499.2 424.9 365.4 426.7 Total Assets (¥ billion) 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 Consolidated 719.4 1,161.4 1,210.1 1,117.4 1,139.7 1,132.5 Non-consolidated 499.2 791.7 786.4 766.7 783.2 772.5 Ordinary Profit (¥ billion) 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 Consolidated 68.2 78.3 121.7 52.0 43.8 74.8 Non-consolidated 32.1 34.1 38.2 (5.2) 15.0 34.2 Fiscal Year End Stock Prices (yen) 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 Fiscal year end stock 4,120 4,100 4,290 2,680 3,825 2,491 prices Dividends (yen) 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 Dividends 22 28 38 38 32 36 Breakdown of Shareholders 2005 2006 Number of voters Shares held As % of all shareholders Number of voters Shares held As % of all shareholders Financial institutions 135 115,193,006 43.7% 149 118,319,706 44.8% Securities companies 56 3,520,930 1.3% 64 7,155,113 2.7% Other corporations 310 30,070,360 11.4% 342 36,054,260 13.7% Foreign corporation 417 96,628,254 36.6% 409 83,444,832 31.6% Individuals, other 10,590 18,401,423 7.0% 14,116 18,840,062 7.1% Total 11,508 263,813,973 100.0% 15,080 263,813,973 100.0% 255 Data 2007 2008 Number of voters Shares held As % of all shareholders Number of voters Shares held As % of all shareholders Financial institutions 181 141,302,883 48.2% 183 149,285,576 50.9% Securities companies 86 7,181,326 2.5% 65 4,408,469 1.5% Other corporations 571 40,848,052 13.9% 621 43,053,817 14.7% Foreign corporation 469 81,575,368 27.8% 479 70,912,586 24.2% Individuals, other 28,422 22,206,344 7.6% 35,580 25,453,525 8.7% Total 29,729 293,113,973 100.0% 36,928 293,113,973 100.0% 2009 2010 Number of voters Shares held As % of all shareholders Number of voters Shares held As % of all shareholders Financial institutions 171 138,391,233 47.2% 167 123,782,330 42.2% Securities companies 65 8,358,282 2.9% 98 9,364,720 3.2% Other corporations 567 42,336,605 14.4% 638 42,495,914 14.5% Foreign corporation 472 79,918,106 27.3% 473 86,060,485 29.4% Individuals, other 32,513 24,109,747 8.2% 46,815 31,410,524 10.7% Total 33,788 293,113,973 100.0% 48,191 293,113,973 100.0% Dividends to Shareholders Equity (%) 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 Dividends to 47.7 34.4 45.3 42.2 43.5 43.1 shareholders equity Voting Rights Exercised 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 Voting rights 78.60% 81.30% 81.72% 85.43% 81.50% 79.49% exercised (%) Votes cast over the 4,335 457,012 903,216 864,879 897,490 1,012,927 Internet Shereholderes voting 385 289 691 926 779 998 online 256 Data Business / Financial Data (Consolidated) 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Years ended March 31, 2008 Years ended March 31, 2009 Years ended March 31, 2010 Years ended March 31, 2011 (Forecast) Net Sales (¥Million) 1,291,081 1,202,419 1,070,000 1,160,330 1,310,000 Operating Income 128,098 61,394 44,037 75,455 85,000 (¥Million) Ordinary Income 121,708 52,007 43,768 74,800 82,000 (¥Million) Net Income (¥Million) 74,822 21,755 19,390 19,872 41,000 Earnings Per Share 262.24 74.51 66.44 68.11 140.62 (yen) Overseas Business 64 63 62 61 Ratio (%) Free Cash Flow 6,100 (7,000) 80,700 38,200 (¥Million) Return on Assets (%) 6.3 1.9 1.7 1.7 Return on Equity (%) 15.8 4.3 4.0 4.0 Shareholders' Equity 45.3 42.2 43.5 43.1 Ratio (%) Plant-and-Equipment 51,300 60,600 28,400 28,800 Investment (¥Million) Reseach & Development Costs 32,100 30,500 28,200 30,800 (¥Million) Liability with Interest 29.4 37.4 35.0 32.9 Ratio (%) Employees 36,406 40,126 39,132 41,769 Donations D (%) 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 Education 37.4 43.2 51.8 22.9 31.7 22.0 Environmental 4.8 2.0 0.9 8.3 14.9 6.0 protection International exchange 15.3 11.5 10.3 18.2 14.9 4.9 and cooperation Art, culture 17.3 11.7 10.7 11.7 13.5 9.3 Local community and 3.7 5.9 2.3 10.2 5.8 6.6 society Donation of products, 2.0 11.3 8.2 1.9 3.6 4.7 etc. History, traditional 5.6 1.9 2.8 1.2 2.9 1.2 culture Academic research 3.5 2.8 1.7 1.3 2.2 1.2 Disaster relierf 39.8 Other 10.4 9.7 11.3 24.3 10.5 4.3 257 Data Governance Executive Compensation 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 Number 11 11 12 10 13 Directors Amount of compensation 666 816 748 717 708 (¥million) Number 4 4 4 5 4 Corporate Amount of Auditors compensation 79 86 93 90 90 (¥million) Number 15 15 16 15 17 Total Amount of compensation 746 903 842 808 798 (¥million) Note: About compensation amounts For fiscal 2006, bonuses to directors included. From fiscal 2007, bonuses to directors (excluding outside directors) include expenses related to stock acquisition rights given to directors as stock options. For fiscal 2008, the compensation amount for the term of office of two directors who retired during the period is included; however, the JPY 146 million for retirement benefits is not included. For fiscal 2009, the compensation amount for the term of office of one auditor who retired is included. For fiscal 2010, the compensation amount for the term of office of three auditor who retired is included. Starting Salary (yen) 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 University grad 200,000 202,000 204,000 215,000 215,000 215,000 Masters 227,800 229,800 231,800 234,800 234,800 234,800 PhD 252,800 254,800 256,800 258,800 258,800 258,800 Number of Compliance Violations, Countermeasures OJG FY2010 Details 0 No laws or regulations were broken 258 Data Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2011 −Web version− Overview of GRI Guidelines GRI Sustainability Reporting Guidelines 2006 (G3) 260 259 Overview of GRI Guidelines GRI Sustainability Reporting Guidelines 2006 (G3) See Data, environmental performance information and social performance indicators can be found here. (Page 243) GC Indicators WEB Principle 1.Strategy and Analysis Statement from the most senior decision-maker of the organization (e.g., CEO, chair, or 1.1 equivalent senior position) about the relevance of sustainability to the organization and its Chairman's strategy. Message 1.2 Description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities. 2.Organizational Profile 2.1 Name of the organization. 2.2 Primary brands, products, and/or services. Operational structure of the organization, including main divisions, operating companies, 2.3 subsidiaries, and joint ventures. 2.4 Location of organization's headquarters. Number of countries where the organization operates, and names of countries with either 2.5 major operations or that are specifically relevant to the sustainability issues covered in the report. Daikin's CSR 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form. Markets served (including geographic breakdown, sectors served, and types of 2.7 customers/beneficiaries). Scale of the reporting organization, including: -Number of employees; -Net sales (for private sector organizations) or net revenues (for public sector organizations); -Total capitalization 2.8 broken down in terms of debt and equity (for private sector organizations); and-Quantity of products or services provided. Significant changes during the reporting period regarding size, structure, or ownership including:-The location of, or changes in operations, including facility openings, closings, and 2.9 expansions; and-Changes in the share capital structure and other capital formation, maintenance, and alteration operations (for private sector organizations). Honors for 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period. Daikin 3.Report Parameters Report Profile 3.1 Reporting period (e.g., fiscal/calendar year) for information provided. 3.2 Date of most recent previous report (if any) Editorial Policy 3.3 Reporting cycle (annual, biennial, etc.) 3.4 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents. 260 Overview of GRI Guidelines GC Indicators WEB Principle Report Scope and Boundary Process for defining report content, including: -Determining materiality; -Prioritizing topics 3.5 within the report; and Identifying stakeholders the organization expects to use the report. Boundary of the report (e.g., countries, divisions, subsidiaries, leased facilities, joint ventures, Editorial Policy 3.6 suppliers). See GRI Boundary Protocol for further guidance. 3.7 State any specific limitations on the scope or boundary of the report. Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, leased facilities, outsourced operations, and 3.8 other entities that can significantly affect comparability from period to period and/or between organizations. Data measurement techniques and the bases of calculations, including assumptions and Calculation 3.9 techniques underlying estimations applied to the compilation of the Indicators and other standard information in the report. Explanation of the effect of any re-statements of information provided in earlier reports, and 3.10 the reasons for such re-statement (e.g., mergers/ acquisitions, change of base years/periods, nature of business, measurement methods). Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the scope, boundary, or measurement 3.11 methods applied in the report. GRI Content Index 3.12 Table identifying the location of the Standard Disclosures in the report. This page Assurance Policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance for the report. If not included in the assurance report accompanying the sustainability report, explain the scope Independent 3.13 and basis of any external assurance provided. Also explain the relationship between the Opinions reporting organization and the assurance provider(s). 4. Governance, Commitments, and Engagement Governance Governance structure of the organization, including committees under the highest governance 4.1 body responsible for specific tasks, such as setting strategy or organizational oversight. Indicate whether the Chair of the highest governance body is also an executive officer (and, if CSR 4.2 so, their function within the organization's management and the reasons for this arrangement). Management For organizations that have a unitary board structure, state the number of members of the 4.3 highest governance body that are independent and/or non-executive members. Corporate Governance Responsibility Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to provide recommendations or direction to the to Shareholders 4.4 highest governance body. and Investors Labor Management Relations Linkage between compensation for members of the highest governance body, senior 4.5 managers, and executives (including departure arrangements), and the organization's performance (including social and environmental performance). 261 Overview of GRI Guidelines GC Indicators WEB Principle Governance Processes in place for the highest governance body to ensure conflicts of interest are 4.6 avoided. CSR Process for determining the qualifications and expertise of the members of the highest Management 4.7 governance body for guiding the organization's strategy on economic, environmental, and social topics. Internally developed statements of mission or values, codes of conduct, and principles relevant CSR 4.8 to economic, environmental, and social performance and the status of their implementation. Philosophy Procedures of the highest governance body for overseeing the organization's identification and management of economic, environmental, and social performance, including relevant risks CSR 4.9 and opportunities, and adherence or compliance with internationally agreed standards, codes Management of conduct, and principles. Processes for evaluating the highest governance body's own performance, particularly with 4.10 respect to economic, environmental, and social performance. Commitments to External Initiatives Compliance and Risk Explanation of whether and how the precautionary approach or principle is addressed by the Management 4.11 organization. Product Quality and Safety Participation in Externally developed economic, environmental, and social charters, principles, or other 4.12 the Global initiatives to which the organization subscribes or endorses. Compact Feature1: The Quest for Next-Generation Memberships in associations (such as industry associations) and/or national/international Refrigerants advocacy organizations in which the organization: -Has positions in governance bodies; 4.13 Daikin -Participates in projects or committees; -Provides substantive funding beyond routine Cooperates in membership dues; or Views membership as strategic. Formation of Environmental Policy Stakeholder Engagement 4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization. 4.15 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage. Approaches to stakeholder engagement, including frequency of engagement by type and by Responsibility 4.16 to Stakeholders stakeholder group. Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement, and how the 4.17 organization has responded to those key topics and concerns, including through its reporting. 262 Overview of GRI Guidelines GC Indicators WEB Principle 5. Management Approach and Performance Indicators * * See Data, environmental performance information and social performance indicators can be found here. (Page 243) Economic Management Approach For Goals and Performance Shareholders Information Policy Disclosure Policy Investor Additional Contextual Information Relations Economic Performance Direct economic value generated and distributed, including revenues, For operating costs, employee compensation, donations and other community Shareholders EC1. investments, retained earnings, and payments to capital providers and Charitable governments. Activities GC Core Chairman's principles Indicators Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the organization's Message EC2. 7,8 activities due to climate change. Environmental Accounting EC3. Coverage of the organization's defined benefit plan obligations. EC4. Significant financial assistance received from government. Market Presence Additional Range of ratios of standard entry level wage compared to local minimum wage GC principle EC5. Indicators at significant locations of operation. 6 Responsibility Policy, practices, and proportion of spending on locally-based suppliers at EC6. to Business significant locations of operation. Partners Core Indicators Promotion of Procedures for local hiring and proportion of senior management hired from GC principle Local Personnel EC7. the local community at locations of significant operation. 6 at Overseas Bases Indirect Economic Impacts Development and impact of infrastructure investments and services provided Charitable EC8. primarily for public benefit through commercial, in-kind, or pro bono Core Activities engagement. Indicators Understanding and describing significant indirect economic impacts, including Environmental EC9. the extent of impacts. Accounting Environmental Management Approach Environmental GC Action Targets Goals and Performance principles and 7,8,9 Achievements 263 Overview of GRI Guidelines GC Indicators WEB Principle Environmental Management Approach Towards an Environmentally GC Advanced Policy principles Company 7,8,9 Environmental Philosophy GC Environmental Organizational Responsibility principles Management 7,8,9 System GC Environmental Training and Awareness principles Education 7,8,9 GC Environmental Monitoring and Follow-up principles Audits 7,8,9 GC Additional Contextual Information principles 7,8,9 Materials Overview of GC principle EN1. Materials used by weight or volume. Environmental 8 Core Impact Indicators GC EN2. Percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials. principles 8,9 Energy GC EN3. Direct energy consumption by primary energy source. Overview of Core principles 8 Environmental Indicators GC EN4. Indirect energy consumption by primary source. Impact principles 8 GC Daikin EN5. Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency improvements. principles Eco-products 8,9 Feature 2: Solutions for Curbing Global Warming Daikin Eco-Products GC Promoting the Additional Initiatives to provide energy-efficient or renewable energy based products and EN6. principles Use of Inverter Indicators services, and reductions in energy requirements as a result of these initiatives. 8,9 Products Promoting the Use of Heat-Pump Type Space and Hot Water Heaters GC EN7. Initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption and reductions achieved. principles 8,9 264 Overview of GRI Guidelines GC Indicators WEB Principle Environmental Water Overview of Core GC EN8. Total water withdrawal by source. Environmental Indicators principles 8 Impact GC EN9. Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of water. principles 8 Additional Indicators GC EN10. Percentage and total volume of water recycled and reused. principles 8,9 Biodiversity Location and size of land owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to, GC EN11. protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected principles 8 Core areas. Indicators Description of significant impacts of activities, products, and services on GC Protecting EN12. biodiversity in protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside principles 8 Biodiversity protected areas. GC Protecting EN13. Habitats protected or restored. principles 8 Biodiversity Additional Strategies, current actions, and future plans for managing impacts on GC Protecting EN14. Indicators biodiversity. principles 8 Biodiversity Number of IUCN Red List species and national conservation list species with GC EN15. habitats in areas affected by operations, by level of extinction risk. principles 8 Emissions, Effluents, and Waste Overview of Environmental Impact GC EN16. Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight. Preventing Core principles 8 Global Warming Indicators Production, Transportation GC EN17. Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight. principles 8 Preventing GC Additional Global Warming EN18. Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and reductions achieved. principles Indicators Production, 8,9 Transportation 265 Overview of GRI Guidelines GC Indicators WEB Principle Environmental Emissions, Effluents, and Waste Overview of Environmental Impact Preventing Global Warming Production, GC EN19. Emissions of ozone-depleting substances by weight. Transportation principles 8 Recovering and Destroying Fluorocarbons from Customers' Air Conditioners Core Indicators GC EN20. NO, SO, and other significant air emissions by type and weight. Overview of principles 8 Environmental GC Impact EN21. Total water discharge by quality and destination. principles 8 Overview of Environmental GC Impact EN22. Total weight of waste by type and disposal method. principles 8 Reducing Waste and Water Environmental GC EN23. Total number and volume of significant spills. Risk principles 8 Management Weight of transported, imported, exported, or treated waste deemed GC EN24. hazardous under the terms of the Basel Convention Annex I, II, III, and VIII, principles 8 Additional and percentage of transported waste shipped internationally. Indicators Identity, size, protected status, and biodiversity value of water bodies and GC EN25. related habitats significantly affected by the reporting organization's principles 8 discharges of water and runoff. Products and Services GC Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of products and services, and Low-Impact EN26. principles extent of impact mitigation. Products Core 8,9 Indicators GC Percentage of products sold and their packaging materials that are reclaimed EN27. principles 3R & Repair by category. 8,9 Compliance Environmental Core Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary GC EN28. Risk Indicators sanctions for noncompliance with environmental laws and regulations. principles 8 Management 266 Overview of GRI Guidelines GC Indicators WEB Principle Transport Overview of Environmental Significant environmental impacts of transporting products and other goods Impact Additional GC EN29. and materials used for the organization's operations, and transporting Preventing Indicators principles 8 members of the workforce. Global Warming Production, Transportation Overall Additional GC Environmental EN30. Total environmental protection expenditures and investments by type. Indicators principles 8 Accounting Social Labor Practices and Decent Work Management Approach GC Goals and Performance principles 3,6 Employee Evaluation and Treatment Policy Workplace Diversity Policy Work-Life Balance Policy GC Labor Policy principles Management 3,6 Relations Policy Occupational Safety and Health Policy Fostering Human Resources Philosophy GC Organizational Responsibility principles 3,6 Fostering Human GC Resources Training and Awareness principles Occupational 3,6 Safety and Health GC Monitoring and Follow-Up principles 3,6 GC Additional Contextual Information principles 3,6 267 Overview of GRI Guidelines GC Indicators WEB Principle Social Labor Practices and Decent Work Employment Daikin's CSR LA1. Total workforce by employment type, employment contract, and region. Workplace Core Diversity Indicators Total number and rate of employee turnover by age group, gender, and GC Work-Life LA2. region. principles 6 Balance Additional Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or GC LA3. Indicators part-time employees, by major operations. principles 6 Labor/Management Relations GC Labor LA4. Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements. principles Management Core 1,3 Relations Indicators Minimum notice period (s) regarding operational changes, including whether GC LA5. it is specified in collective agreements. principles 3 Occupational Health and Safety Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint managementAdditional LA6. worker health and safety committees that help monitor and advise on Indicators occupational health and safety programs. Occupational Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and LA7. Safety and number of work-related fatalities by region. Core Health Indicators Education, training, counseling, prevention, and risk-control programs in LA8. place to assist workforce members, their families, or community members regarding serious diseases. Additional LA9. Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade unions. Indicators Training and Education Fostering Core LA10. Average hours of training per year per employee by employee category. Human Indicators Resources Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that support the Fostering LA11. continued employability of employees and assist them in managing career Human Additional endings. Resources Indicators Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career LA12. development reviews. Diversity and Equal Opportunity Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per GC LA13. category according to gender, age group, minority group membership, and principles Core other indicators of diversity. 1,6 Indicators GC LA14. Ratio of basic salary of men to women by employee category. principles 1,6 268 Overview of GRI Guidelines GC Indicators WEB Principle Social Human Rights Management Approach GC Goals and Performance principles 1,2,4,5,6 GC Respect for Policy principles Human Rights 1,2,4,5,6 Compliance and GC Risk Organizational Responsibility principles Management 1,2,4,5,6 Respect for Human Rights GC Respect for Training and Awareness principles Human Rights 1,2,4,5,6 Compliance and Risk GC Management Monitoring and Follow-Up principles Suppliers Must 1,2,4,5,6 Be in Legal Compliance GC Additional Contextual Information principles 1,2,4,5,6 Investment and Procurement Practices GC Percentage and total number of significant investment agreements that include HR1. principles human rights clauses or that have undergone human rights screening. Core 1,2,4,5,6 Indicators GC Suppliers Must Percentage of significant suppliers and contractors that have undergone HR2. principles Be in Legal screening on human rights and actions taken. 1,2,4,5,6 Compliance Total hours of employee training on policies and procedures concerning GC Additional Respect for HR3. aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations, including the principles Indicators Human Rights percentage of employees trained. 1,4,5 Non-Discrimination Legal Core GC Compliance HR4. Total number of incidents of discrimination and actions taken. Indicators principles 1,6 Audits, Compliance Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining Operations identified in which the right to exercise freedom of association and Core GC HR5. collective bargaining may be at significant risk, and actions taken to support Indicators principles 1,3 these rights. Child Labor Compliance and Risk Core Operations identified as having significant risk for incidents of child labor, and GC HR6. Management Indicators measures taken to contribute to the elimination of child labor. principles 1,5 Respect for Human Rights 269 Overview of GRI Guidelines GC Indicators WEB Principle Social Human Rights Forced and Compulsory Labor Compliance Operations identified as having significant risk for incidents of forced or GC and Risk Core HR7. compulsory labor, and measures to contribute to the elimination of forced or principles Management Indicators compulsory labor. 1,4 Respect for Human Rights Security Practices Percentage of security personnel trained in the organization's policies or GC Additional HR8. procedures concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to principles Indicators operations. 1,2 Indigenous Rights Additional Total number of incidents of violations involving rights of indigenous people GC HR9. Indicators and actions taken. principles 1 Society Management Approach GC Goals and Performance principles 10 Compliance and Risk GC Management Policy principles 10 Group Compliance Guidelines Compliance GC Organizational Responsibility and Risk principles 10 Management Compliance GC Training and Awareness and Risk principles 10 Management Compliance GC Monitoring and Follow-Up and Risk principles 10 Management Compliance GC Additional Contextual Information and Risk principles 10 Management Community Nature, scope, and effectiveness of any programs and practices that assess Core GC SO1. and manage the impacts of operations on communities, including entering, Indicators principles 1 operating, and exiting. Corruption Percentage and total number of business units analyzed for risks related to GC SO2. corruption. principles 10 Compliance and Risk Core Percentage of employees trained in organization's anti-corruption policies GC SO3. Management Indicators and procedures. principles 10 Prohibiting GC Bribes SO4. Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption. principles 10 270 Overview of GRI Guidelines GC Indicators WEB Principle Social Society Public Policy Feature1: The Quest for Next-Generation Refrigerants Public policy positions and participation in public policy development and GC Core Indicators SO5. Daikin lobbying. principles 10 Cooperates in Formation of Environmental Policy Additional Total value of financial and in-kind contributions to political parties, GC SO6. Indicators politicians, and related institutions by country. principles 10 Anti-Competitive Behavior Compliance and Risk Management Additional Total number of legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, and Free SO7. Indicators monopoly practices and their outcomes. Competition and Fair Business Dealings Compliance Legal Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary Compliance Core Indicators SO8. sanctions for non-compliance with laws and regulations. Audits, Compliance Product Management Approach Goals and Performance Product Quality and Safety Product Safety Policy Voluntary Action Guidelines Product Quality Organizational Responsibility Management Structure Product Quality Training and Awareness and Safety Product Quality Monitoring and Follow-Up and Safety Additional Contextual Information 271 Overview of GRI Guidelines GC Indicators WEB Principle Social Product Customer Health and Safety Life cycle stages in which health and safety impacts of products and services Core PR1. are assessed for improvement, and percentage of significant products and Responsibility Indicators services categories subject to such procedures. to Customers Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary Product Quality Additional and Safety PR2. codes concerning health and safety impacts of products and services during Indicators their life cycle, by type of outcomes. Product and Service Labeling Type of product and service information required by procedures, and Disclosing Core GC PR3. percentage of significant products and services subject to such information Product Indicators principles 8 requirements. Information Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary GC Product Quality PR4. codes concerning product and service information and labeling, by type of Additional principles 8 and Safety outcomes. Indicators Practices related to customer satisfaction, including results of surveys Customer PR5. measuring customer satisfaction. Satisfaction Marketing Communications Core Programs for adherence to laws, standards, and voluntary codes related to PR6. Indicators marketing communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship. Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary Additional Product Quality PR7. codes concerning marketing communications, including advertising, Indicators and Safety promotion, and sponsorship by type of outcomes. Customer Privacy Protecting Additional Total number of substantiated complaints regarding breaches of customer PR8. Customer Indicators privacy and losses of customer data. Information Compliance Core Monetary value of significant fines for non-compliance with laws and Product Quality PR9. Indicators regulations concerning the provision and use of products and services. and Safety See Data, environmental performance information and social performance indicators can be found here. (Page 243) 272 Overview of GRI Guidelines
