Self-assessment  Includes an explicit statement of continued support for the UN Global Compact and its ten principles  Description of actions or relevant policies related to Human Rights  Description of actions or relevant policies related to Labour  Description of actions or relevant policies related to Environment  Description of actions or relevant policies related to Anti-Corruption  Includes a measurement of outcomes  Statement of continued support by the Chief Executive Officer  Statement of the company's chief executive (CEO or equivalent) expressing continued support for the Global Compact and renewing the company's ongoing commitment to the initiative and its principles.  4th October 2012 To our stakeholders: MAKA Engineering & Supplies, via its daily business activities and stakeholder relationships, aims to contribute to the UN Millennium Development Goals by reaffirming its support to the Ten principles of the UN Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. As a company, MAKA’s mission is to set the foundations for a sustainable and socially-responsible society via the creation of dynamic, innovative and transparent initiatives, all while ensuring its own corporate practices fall in line with the principles and ethical culture nurtured by the UN Global Compact. Sincerely Yours, Wong Ken General Manager. Human Rights  Assessment, policy and goals Description of the relevance of human rights for the company (i.e. human rights risk-assessment). Description of policies, public commitments and company goals on Human Rights. MAKA actively supports the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. We will not carry out business with any countries or regimes where flagrant human rights abuses are known e.g torture, politically motivated disappearances etc. MAKA has a Dignity at Work Policy and is committed to ensuring that all our employees are treated fairly and with respect. MAKA goal is to maintain the zero abuse record we have until now.  Implementation Description of concrete actions to implement Human Rights policies, address Human Rights risks and respond to Human Rights violations. MAKA, in its labor contract, guarantees a culture of openness, honesty and transparency. Staff is encourage to discuss issues encountered in the work place so as to find adequate solutions to prevent similar situations from happening in the future. The Human Resources Department is responsible for receiving employees’ issues and suggestions to improve the overall quality of the work environment, while respecting privacy. HR will then commit to resolve the issues is resolved in conformity with the country’s laws and Universal Human Rights principles.  Measurement of outcomes Description of how the company monitors and evaluates performance. To date, MAKA has not encountered any incidents of Human Rights violation, due to senior management frequently reassessing MAKA’s policies and ensuring that its employees and stakeholders are treated fairly and equally. MAKA also encourages its external partners to follow its steps and act ethically in the work place which contributes to a healthier business environment and fewer cases of violation. Labour  Assessment, policy and goals Description of the relevance of labour rights for the company (i.e. labour rightsrelated risks and opportunities). Description of written policies, public commitments and company goals on labour rights. MAKA recognizes the importance to provide an organizational culture based on respect and trust. The Employee Handbook clearly states employee rights and responsibilities and their compensation and benefits. For the upcoming year, MAKA aims to incorporate in its compensation packages a wider range of employee’s benefits and foster a greater sense of ownership within the organization.  Implementation Description of concrete actions taken by the company to implement labour policies, address labour risks and respond to labour violations. MAKA has written guidelines to ensure that Labor Rights are respected and in case of violation, resolved with the best interest of the neglected party at heart. Below are a few examples of implementation measures taken by MAKA: ~Employees are aware of their rights and responsibilities; ~Complaint/suggestion system is in place allow effective communication between top management and the staff.  Measurement of outcomes Description of how the company monitors and evaluates performance. Human Resources and senior management work in hand to ensure that all employees are given access to the same resources and treated equally in the work place. MAKA is proud to encourage freedom of speech and diversity in the work place, having employees from different nationality, religious and educational backgrounds. Environment  Assessment, policy and goals Description of the relevance of environmental protection for the company (i.e. environmental risks and opportunities). Description of policies, public commitments and company goals on environmental protection. Assessment of MAKA's environmental footprint to be implemented in the next year. Company wants to reduce utilities consumption by 20% in the next year.  Implementation Description of concrete actions to implement environmental policies, address environmental risks and respond to environmental incidents. Zero waste policy: MAKA implements a zero waste policy to minimize energy, paper and water consumption. The Administrative Department is responsible for the environmental policy of MAKA.  Measurement of outcomes Description of how the company monitors and evaluates environmental performance. No environmental incidents have been reported in this period. Annually, Environmental Policy is reviewed by the senior management team. Anti-Corruption  Assessment, policy and goals Description of the relevance of anti-corruption for the company (i.e. anticorruption risk-assessment). Description of policies, public commitments and company goals on anti-corruption. MAKA fully supports the UN Convention Against Corruption. Internal Code: All employees, partners and business associates may not be involved in any corruption activities. Any suspicion of involvement in corruption or fraudulent activities by any company's employee must be reported to the Human Resources Department. Guidelines on how to deal with bribery and extortion situations.  Implementation Description of concrete actions to implement anti-corruption policies, address anti-corruption risks and respond to incidents. Fraudulent situations may be anonymously reported by employees. The Board of Directors is responsible for the Anti-corruption policy of MAKA. New employees receive specific training on fraudulent situations. Any corruption situation detected that involves employees, business partners or suppliers, must be investigated and may lead to contract termination.  Measurement of outcomes Description of how the company monitors and evaluates anti-corruption performance. No fraudulent or corruption activities were detected during this period. Annually, Anti-Corruption policy is reviewed by the senior management team.
