2011 Corporate Social Responsibility AND Sustainability Report How can we help create a system of agriculture that provides the world the food we need today while preserving resources our children need tomorrow? How do we get more out of every acre of land, every drop of water and every unit of energy? How can agriculture improve lives? BUSINESS PROFILE 3 Sta k e h ol d er E n gag e m en t 11 Te c h nolo g y a n d business G OV E R N A N C E 25 commitment to sustainable agriculture 38 P R O Du c in g m ore 40 c onservin g m ore 47 i m provin g lives 62 G R I I n d ex 89 As the population continues to increase, so does the demand for valuable resources. Monsanto is working for a better tomorrow by putting the right tools in the hands of farmers today. By equipping growers with better seeds, we can help protect our natural resources, fight hunger, improve nutrition and provide economic benefits to everyone involved in an improved system of agriculture. ABOUT THIS REPORT This report was developed following the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) guidelines for sustainability reporting. Content that applies to any of the GRI categories is labeled with the appropriate GRI indicator(s), for example: GRI EN16 *. As Monsanto is a member of the United Nations Global Compact, the world’s largest sustainability and corporate citizenship initiative, this report also labels content that applies to the Ten Principles of the Global Compact (pages 33–37), for example: UN1 . GRI indicators and UN Global Compact Principles can be found in the GRI Index, starting on page 89. To facilitate navigation, a broad category table of contents appears in the upper right corner of each page with the current section highlighted. We hope these tools help simplify your search for the information in this report. *To understand the context of the green GRI Indicator boxes found throughout this document, please refer to the full index of disclosures in the GRI Index on pages 89–99. 2011 Corporate Social Responsibility and Sustainability Report www.monsanto.com/sustainabilityreport 2 BUSINESS PROFILE 3 Sta k eho l d er E n g ag e m e n t 11 T e c h n o lo g y a n d busi n ess G OV E R N A NC E 25 commitment to sustainable agriculture 38 P R O Du c i n g m ore 40 c o n servi n g m ore 47 i m provi n g l ives 62 Letter from the Chairman G R I I n d ex 89 Last year represented a true milestone for raising awareness and advancing the broader global dialogue about the tremendous challenges our growing world faces between now and 2050. Over the next four decades, the world will need to double food measure and report their sustainability performance. This type production to combat hunger, malnutrition and meet the needs of reporting will be a continuous and transparent journey of of our fast-growing population. The recent arrival of the world’s improvement for our business. I look forward to updating you seven billionth person shed further light on this global conversation. on our progress in future reports. Looking ahead, Monsanto’s challenge—a challenge shared by many Part of our continuous journey is also exemplified through our companies, governments and non-governmental organizations commitment to the UN Global Compact and the 10 principles relat(NGOs)—must be to translate the discussion around these ing to the areas of human rights, labor practices, environmental challenges into action. protection and combating corruption. Since joining the UN Global One thing is clear—no single company or organization can meet Compact in 2009, we have provided an annual Communication these challenges alone. Collaboration among stakeholders in the on Progress and this year’s report includes our second installment public and private sectors, across virtually every sector of the value of our actions supporting the Global Compact. It also includes a chain is vitally important. As a business, we remain committed special update on our Human Rights activities. to actively participating in stakeholder dialogue and supporting Our business remains committed to investing in agricultural initiatives that are focused on increasing agricultural productivity, systems that can sustainably support the demands of our growing managing and reducing the environmental impact of agriculture, planet—whether that is on-farm or at home. Looking forward, and improving the economic success of farmers and their families we are exploring opportunities to support continuous improvement in all parts of the world. in crop yields through our efforts in breeding, agronomics and In 2011, we made great progress to our goals around sustainability, biotechnology. We are also exploring better health and nutriengaging with many stakeholders and working in partnership with tion through our vegetable business. We are well-positioned to organizations around the world. I’m pleased to present you with strengthen our partnerships with farmers as a solutions provider Monsanto’s 2011 Corporate Social Responsibility and Sustainability offering more efficient and sustainable farming practices. I am Report which outlines recent work in this area. We’ve worked to proud to be a part of the work Monsanto does around the world summarize both the challenges and progress made in areas critical to help produce more, conserve more and improve lives. to our business and the communities we serve. While I’m very proud I encourage you to read this report, and welcome your feedback, of all of the projects we highlight in this report, there are two key while you learn more about how our business and our employees initiatives that truly stand out for the impact they have on making throughout the world are working agriculture more sustainable: Field to Market: The Keystone Alliance daily to meet our commitments for Sustainable Agriculture and World Economic Forum’s “New to sustainable agriculture. Vision for Agriculture.” I look forward to your feedback on the partnerships in which we’re involved and the progress we’re making. Sincerely, You, our external stakeholders, continue to serve as our guide for continuous improvement in corporate social responsibility and sustainability. We recognize that this begins in our own operations. Hugh Grant That is why this year we have joined the Global Reporting Initiative Chairman of the Board, President (GRI), a sustainability reporting framework that helps companies and Chief Executive Officer 2011 Corporate Social Responsibility and Sustainability Report 3 BUSINESS PROFILE 3 Sta k eho l d er E n g ag e m e n t 11 T e c h n o lo g y a n d busi n ess G OV E R N A NC E 25 commitment to sustainable agriculture 38 P R O Du c i n g m ore 40 c o n servi n g m ore 47 i m provi n g l ives 62 About our business G R I I n d ex 89 Financial Highlights In millions, except per share amounts. Figures shown are in U.S. dollars. Years ended Aug. 31 2011 2010 2009 % Change 2011 vs. 2010 Operating Results Company Headquarters Net Sales $ 11,822 $ 10,483 $ 11,685 13% St. Louis, MO, USA EBIT 1 $ 2,387 $ 1,568 $ 2,958 52% Net Income Attributable to Monsanto Company $ 1,607 $ 1,096 $ 2,092 47% Diluted Earnings per Share2 $ 2.96 $ 1.99 $ 3.77 49% Other Selected Data 20,767 Free Cash Flow 3 $ 1,839 $ 564 $ 1,523 226% Capital Expenditures $ 540 $ 755 $ 916 (28%) Depreciation and Amortization $ 613 $ 602 $ 548 2% Diluted Shares Outstanding 2 542.4 550.8 555.6 (2%) Number of GLOBAL Employees Net Sales Earnings per Share2 Free Cash Flow3 (in billions of dollars, ■ As Reported (in billions of dollars, for years ended Aug. 31) ■ Ongoing for years ended Aug. 31) (in dollars, for years ended Aug. 31) 11.69 11.82 4.38 1.84 10.48 3.77 Operating 404 1.52 2.96 2.96 2.39 1.99 66 facilities in 0.56 countries 09 10 11 09 10 11 09 10 11 1-3  ee our 2011 Annual Report at the hyperlink below for the page of Notes to 2011 Financial Highlights and S Charts, which includes reconciliation of EBIT, ongoing earnings per share and free cash flow to the most directly comparable financial measure calculated in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. www.monsanto.com/investors/Pages/annual-report-financial-highlight-notes.aspx 2011 Corporate Social Responsibility and Sustainability Report 4 BUSINESS PROFILE 3 Sta k eho l d er E n g ag e m e n t 11 T e c h n o lo g y a n d busi n ess G OV E R N A NC E 25 commitment to sustainable agriculture 38 P R O Du c i n g m ore 40 c o n servi n g m ore 47 i m provi n g l ives 62 Monsanto Recognitions G R I I n d ex 89 Monsanto Company recognizes its tremendous responsibility to the farmer customers and investors in the business on an annual basis, to the stakeholders and communities where the company operates, and to the more than 20,000 employees who discover, develop and deliver on Monsanto’s commitment to sustainable agriculture throughout the year. Monsanto’s responsible actions and its commitment to sustainability are widely recognized by stakeholders throughout the world. Non-governmental organizations worldwide choose to partner with the company in collaborations to improve global agriculture and the quality of life of those they serve. U.S. Best Employer and Top Company Recognitions Monsanto Ranked 10th on Forbes List of the 100 Most Innovative Companies. In Forbes’ most recent ranking of the top 100 most innovative companies, Monsanto earned a spot in the top 10 alongside such recognized innovators as Google and Apple. The magazine’s rankings were based on factors that included the company’s five-year average sales growth (as a percent), five-year net income growth (as a percent), enterprise value (in US$ billions), as well as investor perspectives on future potential (i.e., new products, services and markets). Companies on the list must have a minimum of US$10 billion in market Ranked in the capitalization, spend at least one percent of their asset base on R&D and have seven years of public data. (July 2011) Monsanto Ranked 16th on Science Magazine’s 2011 Top Employers List. This survey measures company reputation as an employer with people across the scientific industry. To develop the rankings, Science sent the Top Employers of the World’s Most Innovative Companies survey to 46,000 individuals who had registered with the by Forbes Magazine American Association for the Advancement of Science (AAAS) or ScienceCareers.org. The final survey results were based on 3,784 respondents. Monsanto’s top three attributes from the survey were: innovation leader in the industry, makes changes needed, and does important quality research. (October 2011)  2011 Corporate Social Responsibility and Sustainability Report 5 BUSINESS PROFILE 3 Sta k eho l d er E n g ag e m e n t 11 T e c h n o lo g y a n d busi n ess G OV E R N A NC E 25 commitment to sustainable agriculture 38 P R O Du c i n g m ore 40 Monsanto Recognitions, cont. c o n servi n g m ore 47 i m provi n g l ives 62 G R I I n d ex 89 Monsanto Named to 2011 Climate Innovation Leaders based on a range of attributes. Monsanto was recognized for its Index (CII). Maplecroft, in partnership with Bloomberg, benefits and training and development. (April 2011) rate the most capitalized U.S. stocks above US$1 billion on climate innovation and carbon risk management. Inclusion in Monsanto Recognized by the American Heart Association as this index demonstrates superior management, mitigation and a 2011 Platinum Level Fit-Friendly Company and Honored adaptation in the field of climate innovation. More than 800 with the Worksite Fitness Innovation Award. In April 2011, U.S.-listed companies with free-float market capitalization of Monsanto was recognized as a Platinum Level Recipient of the over US$1 billion have been rated and reviewed. The top 100 American Heart Association’s Start! Fit-Friendly Companies companies are included in the CII. (April 2012) Recognition program. The Platinum Level is the highest level of recognition from the American Heart Association’s Start! Monsanto Named Corporate Marketer of the Year for 2011. initiative. The Start! Fit-Friendly Companies Program is a The Business Marketing Association (BMA) recognized Monsanto catalyst for positive change in American business. Companies as one of two Leading Corporate Marketers of 2011. In addition, throughout the nation can be part of the Start! initiative by Monsanto received five category awards from the BMA B2 making the health and wellness of their employees a priority. awards—three for the America’s Farmers campaign, one for its The AHA recognition highlighted the company’s commitment to annual report and one for its sustainability report. Entering its helping employees eat better and move more. Monsanto is one 35th year, the B2 Awards recognize business-to-business of only two companies that received the worksite Fitness marketing programs that demonstrate the ability to transform Innovation Award in 2011. The American Heart Association new, creative ideas into strategic initiatives. Each year hundreds Fit-Friendly program recognizes employers who champion of B2 entries in 29 categories are received, reviewed and judged health of their employees and work to create a culture of by a network of more than 60 senior corporate marketers and physical activity and health in the workplace. (April 2011) leading business-to-business agency executives. (July 2011) UN6 St. Louis Legal Team Received Inaugural 2011 Diversity Monsanto Honored as One of CIO Magazine’s CIO 100. Award by Mound City Bar Association (MCBA), Missouri Asian The CIO 100 identifies and honors 100 organizations that have American Bar Association (MAABA) and the Association distinguished themselves by creating business value through the of Corporate Counsel, St. Louis Chapter (ACC). This award effective and innovative use of IT. Monsanto IT was recognized is established and selected by the MCBA, MAABA and the for creating a solution to combine all field results for soybean ACC. Monsanto’s selection in March 2011 recognized the and corn field trials to make the data available in real time across Legal Team’s commitment to diversity efforts as deserving of multiple brands and function areas. As a result of the project, recognition as best amongst all corporate legal departments Monsanto now has consolidated data analysis for all of its 18 in its headquarter’s region. As a winner of this inaugural award, brands and sales teams can now point to performance the St. Louis Law Department had the opportunity to showadvantages for specific products. (June 2011) case its efforts to promote diversity before the St. Louis legal community at the ACC/MCBA/MAABA conference “Best Monsanto Selected as One of Computerworld’s 100 Best Practices in Diversity: A Panel Discussion” that was held in Places to Work in IT for 2011. Monsanto ranked 57th on the May 2011 in St. Louis. (March 2011) 2011 overall list and 33rd among large companies. Computerworld singled out Monsanto’s IT organization for its leadership UN6 Monsanto Ranked 41st on the 2011 DiversityInc Top 50 development and recognition programs. (June 2011) Companies for Diversity List. For the fourth straight year, Monsanto has been named to the DiversityInc Top 50 Companies Monsanto Recognized as Fourth Best Large Science Company for Diversity List. A total of 535 companies participated in 2011, to Work For in The Scientist Best Places to Work in Industry 2011 up 19 percent from 2010. Ranked number 41, Monsanto was Survey. Monsanto earned the number 15 spot in the overall ranking recognized for its commitment to diversity management and for of companies listed in the 2011 Best Places to Work in Industry building an increasingly diverse and inclusive workplace. survey by The Scientist magazine. The survey ranks companies (March 2011) 2011 Corporate Social Responsibility and Sustainability Report 6 BUSINESS PROFILE 3 Sta k eho l d er E n g ag e m e n t 11 T e c h n o lo g y a n d busi n ess G OV E R N A NC E 25 commitment to sustainable agriculture 38 P R O Du c i n g m ore 40 Monsanto Recognitions, cont. c o n servi n g m ore 47 i m provi n g l ives 62 G R I I n d ex 89 Worldwide Best Employer and Monsanto Mexico Ranked 48th on the 2011 Best Companies to Work For in Mexico List by the Great Place to Work Institute. Top Company Recognitions This year the company ranked 48th, up from 80th last year. This is the first time Monsanto Mexico has ranked in the top 50. Monsanto Canada Named One of Manitoba’s Top Employers (April 2011) for 2012. Now entering its seventh year, Manitoba’s Top Employers is an annual competition organized by the editors Monsanto Latin America (Brazil and other Latin American of Canada’s Top 100 Employers. This special designation recogCountries) Recognized as One of the Best Places to Work in Latin nizes the Manitoba employers that lead their industries America , placing 38th out of 1,900 participants. Monsanto Latin in offering exceptional places to work. (November 2011) America was recognized as one of the Best Places to Work among multinational companies in Latin America by the Great Place to Monsanto Argentina Ranked Third on the 2011 List of Top Work Institute. (April 2011) Medium-Sized Employers in Argentina. For the fifth consecutive year, Monsanto Argentina was ranked as one of the best Monsanto Ranked Fourth on the 2011 Best Multinational Compacompanies to work for in Argentina, placing third on the list of nies to Work For List in Central America & The Caribbean by the medium-sized companies (251-1,000 employees). This is the Great Place to Work Institute Centroamérica y Caribe. (April 2011) highest that Monsanto Argentina has placed on the list after ranking sixth in 2010. (November 2011) Monsanto Appointed Among the “50 Coolest Companies” by Magazine IstoÉ Dinheiro. Monsanto was appointed one of the Monsanto Named One of the 2011 20 “Best Companies to “50 Coolest Companies” by magazine IstoÉ Dinheiro, Brazil’s main Work For” in China. This biennial survey, jointly organized by weekly economics and business magazine. According to an FORTUNE (China) and Towers Watson, is one of the largest, April 2011 issue of the publication, Monsanto is part of a select most comprehensive and most authoritative research surveys group of companies “that went ahead and created projects that of its kind in China. In 2011, 203 companies participated in the combine economic and social sustainability.” The report highsurvey. Only 20 companies were selected as “Best Companies lighted the program that was implemented in the Sao Jose dos To Work For.” This is the second consecutive time Monsanto Campos (SP) plant, which uses recycled packaging in part of their China has made the list. (September 2011) Roundup® agricultural herbicides production line. The Ecoplast Triex packaging is the first to be produced in Brazil from recycled For the 12th Consecutive Time, Monsanto Selected One of the plastic gallons of pesticides and complies with the highest “Best Companies to Work For in Brazil.” Monsanto placed 49th quality, safety and market performance standards. The award among 923 companies listed in 2011 from all over Brazil. It is also coincided with the anniversary of the foundation of the Sao Jose one of nine companies to receive the distinction multiple times dos Campos plant, which celebrated 35 years of operation during the 15 years of the award. Monsanto was specifically recogin 2011. (April 2011) nized by its employees on issues such as intensity, warmth and pride in belonging and contributing to the community. (August 2011) Monsanto Canada Named one of Canada’s Top 100 Employers for 2011. Canada’s Top 100 Employers project is a national competiMonsanto India Rated the Best Company in Industry and Among tion to determine which employers lead their industries in offering the Top 100 Companies to Work with in the 2011 Study by the exceptional workplaces for their employees. (November 2010) Great Place to Work® Institute. Monsanto India was awarded the “Top 50 Employers in India” in 2010, 2009, 2008 and 2003, Monsanto Canada Named one of Canada’s Top Family-Friendly in addition to being Best in Industry in 2010 and 2009. Monsanto Employers for 2011. Now entering its 11th year, Canada’s India is recognized for the pride that employees have working for Top Family-Friendly Employers competition is organized by the Monsanto, the seamless communication across functions and editors of Canada’s Top 100 Employers. This special designation levels, opportunities to move across functions, as well as the focus recognizes the employers offering the nation’s most progressive on employee safety. In the Great Place to Work survey, employees and forward-thinking programs for employees with young children. have specifically pointed out pride and camaraderie as key The employers on this list are the leaders in helping employees strengths. (June 2011) balance their work and family commitments. (November 2010) ©2012 Great Place to Work® Institute. All Rights Reserved. 2011 Corporate Social Responsibility and Sustainability Report 7 BUSINESS PROFILE 3 Sta k eho l d er E n g ag e m e n t 11 T e c h n o lo g y a n d busi n ess G OV E R N A NC E 25 commitment to sustainable agriculture 38 P R O Du c i n g m ore 40 Monsanto Recognitions, cont. c o n servi n g m ore 47 i m provi n g l ives 62 G R I I n d ex 89 2011 Worldwide Awards DAT E LO CAT I O N AWAR D 02.10.11 Tangerang, Indonesia Good and Effective ESHOM Steering Committee Activity Award by local government of Banten, Indonesia. 02.24.11 Blair, Nebraska Received their Voluntary Protection Program’s Star certification. 03.30.11 Luling, Louisiana Monsanto Company was awarded an Environmental Leadership Program (ELP) Large Business Achievement Award in Pollution Prevention for reducing natural gas consumption by 665,000 MMBTH by using recovered hydrogen. Since hydrogen stream does not contain carbon, it does not create carbon dioxide (CO2) when burned; instead, it forms water. The reduction in CO2 emissions by 38,000 metric tons/year represents the amount of CO2 formed by driving a car 95 million miles. With the average commuter driving 15,000 miles/year, this project is equivalent to removing 6,300 cars from the road annually. The Louisiana Environmental Leadership Program, which was established in 1996, recognizes activities and projects undertaken by Louisiana facilities that demonstrate environmental leadership. 03.30.11 Luling, Louisiana Monsanto Company was awarded an Environmental Leadership Program (ELP) Large Business Recognition Award in Pollution Prevention for re-using steam condensate (that was previously discharged) within a production facility to reduce water and energy consumption. This project reduces the amount of demineralized water by 45 million gallons/year and an equivalent volume of water discharged from the facility. Additionally, the steam condensate provides a portion of the unit’s heating requirements, resulting in the direct reduction of 25 million pounds/year of steam consumption. The facility’s greenhouse gas emissions have been reduced by 1,074 metric tons/year, and criteria pollutant emissions by four tons/year. The Louisiana Environmental Leadership Program, which was established in 1996, recognizes activities and projects undertaken by Louisiana facilities that demonstrate environmental leadership. 05.19.11 Soda Springs, Idaho Union Pacific Railroad awarded Monsanto Company with the 2011 Annual Pinnacle Award. The award recognizes Union Pacific customers that implement successful prevention and corrective plans to achieve a rate of zero non-accidental releases (NARs) for shipments of regulated hazardous materials. Monsanto is one of only 79 companies recognized. 07.07.11 Phitsanulok, Thailand Environmental, Safety & Health (ESH) national award for dedication and commitment to safety. 07.21.11 Soda Springs, Idaho “Perfect Record Award” for 12+ months of zero recordables from the Utah Safety Council. 07.21.11 Soda Springs, Idaho “Award of Merit” for continuous improvement in workplace safety from the Utah Safety Council. Malaysian Society for Occupational Safety and Health (MSOSH) Gold Award under the category 07.22.11 Pasir Gudang, Malaysia Manufacturing and Chemical Sectors, sixth consecutive year. 08.17.11 Phitsanulok, Thailand Environmental Caring Award by the Thai Government. 09.30.11 Cachoeira Dourada, Brazil Wildlife Habitat Council—Corporate Lands for Learning Certification. 10.31.11 Illiopolis, Illinois Wildlife Habitat Council—Wildlife at Work certification. 12.05.11 General Santos, Philippines Safety Milestone (SMILE) recognition award from Bureau of Working Conditions-Department of Labor and Employment (BWE-DOLE). 12.05.11 Pasir Gudang, Malaysia Chemical Industry Council of Malaysia (CICM) Responsible Care Gold Award: Employee Safety and Health code, Process Safety Code. 12.05.11 Pasir Gudang, Malaysia CICM Responsible Care Platinum Award: Employee Safety and Health Code, Process Safety Code. 2011 Corporate Social Responsibility and Sustainability Report 8 BUSINESS PROFILE 3 Sta k eho l d er E n g ag e m e n t 11 T e c h n o lo g y a n d busi n ess G OV E R N A NC E 25 commitment to sustainable agriculture 38 P R O Du c i n g m ore 40 The Monsanto Sustainable i m provi n g l ives 62 c o n servi n g m ore 47 Yield Pledge Awards G R I I n d ex 89 The Sustainable Yield Pledge Awards (SYPA) promote, recognize and reward people and work that exemplify Monsanto’s Pledge values and support our commitment to make agriculture more sustainable. Our commitment to sustainable yield is what we do as a company. It is our vision and strategy to work with farmers to produce more, conserve more and improve lives. Our commitment to sustainable yield directly supports our Evaluation Criteria vision and strategy to work with farmers to produce more, Sustainable Yield Pledge Award nominations are evaluated conserve more and improve lives. The Sustainable Yield according to two criteria: Pledge Awards Program demonstrates Monsanto’s commitment to sustainable yield by recognizing in • Methods— The project must demonstrate a commitment a public way some of the most important work our to the Monsanto Pledge through the application of employees do every day. These awards promote, recognize Pledge values. and reward people (and their work) who exemplify Monsanto’s • Results—The project must create sustainable yield, Pledge values and support our initiatives to make agriculture customer, community or business value. more sustainable. Each nomination listed all the people and groups involved Award Categories in each project and explained how the project came together, its impact now, and any plans or possible impacts Award categories recognize exceptional projects that parallel in the future. our commitment to sustainable yield as well as goals that are foundational to our commitment: Award honorees 1. Producing More—projects that work with farmers and strive Award honorees receive: toward doubling yields • A US$15,000 grant to designate to a nonprofit organization 2. Conserving More—projects that work with farmers to (US$20,000 for Judge’s Choice—top prize) improve resource efficiency by reducing key inputs per unit • An award celebration in St. Louis of output 3. Improving Lives—projects that work with farmers to improve The Sustainable Yield Pledge Awards’ competition resulted incomes and quality of life in 137 projects submitted from 14 functional areas over 4. Customer Relationships—projects that provide value to our 10 global regions. Eighteen award nominee finalists were customers and strengthen our relationships with them selected by delegates across the company in December 2010. Six category winners were selected by Monsanto’s entire 5. Community Engagement—projects that benefit communities Executive Team, with input from 95% of the Monsanto Advisory where we operate Council (MAC). The Judges’ Choice winner was selected by 6. Operational Excellence—projects that improve our efficiency a panel of distinguished external judges, and the People’s and operations Choice award was selected by an all employee voting opportunity in April 2011. The 2011 SYPA ceremony was held in June 2011. 2011 Corporate Social Responsibility and Sustainability Report 9 BUSINESS PROFILE 3 Sta k eho l d er E n g ag e m e n t 11 T e c h n o lo g y a n d busi n ess G OV E R N A NC E 25 commitment to sustainable agriculture 38 P R O Du c i n g m ore 40 The Monsanto Sustainable Yield Pledge Awards, cont. c o n servi n g m ore 47 i m provi n g l ives 62 G R I I n d ex 89 Award WINNERS Monsanto Pledge For a list of all honorees, please visit www.monsanto.com/ SiteCollectionDocuments/2010-Pledge-Awards.pdf The Monsanto Pledge is our commitment to how we do business. It is a declaration that compels The following YouTube® videos provide a showcase for some us to listen more, to consider our actions and their of the previous award-winning projects: impact broadly, and to lead responsibly. It helps www.youtube.com/watch?v=fE9BIKz9QGI us to convert our values into actions, and to make www.youtube.com/watch?v=R_ZEh6CWWNo clear who we are and what we champion. www.youtube.com/watch?v=t3Gwo76Mb68&feature=channel www.youtube.com/watch?v=pQTeb8OEL1E Integrity—Integrity is the foundation for all that we do. Integrity includes honesty, decency, consistency, and courage. Building on those values, we are committed to: Results Dialogue—We will listen carefully to diverse points of view • Projects submitted—137 and engage in thoughtful dialogue. We will broaden our • Functional areas represented—14 understanding of issues in order to better address the needs and concerns of society and each other. • Regions represented—10 Transparency—We will ensure that information is available, • Number of internal delegates—14 accessible, and understandable. Sharing—We will share knowledge and technology to advance scientific understanding, to improve agriculture and the environment, to improve crops, and to help farmers in developing countries. Benefits—We will use sound and innovative science and thoughtful and effective stewardship to deliver high-quality products that are beneficial to our customers and to the environment. Respect—We will respect the religious, cultural, and ethical concerns of people throughout the world. The safety of our employees, the communities where we operate, our customers, consumers, and the environment will be our highest priorities. Act as Owners to Achieve Results—We will create clarity of direction, roles, and accountability; build strong relationships with our customers and external partners; make wise decisions; steward our company resources; and take responsibility for achieving agreed-upon results. Create a Great Place to Work—We will ensure diversity of people and thought; foster innovation, creativity and learning; practice inclusive teamwork; and reward and recognize our people. © 2012 YouTube, LLC 2011 Corporate Social Responsibility and Sustainability Report 10 BUSINESS PROFILE 3 S tak ehol d er E ngage m en t 11 T e c h n o lo g y a n d busi n ess G OV E R N A NC E 25 commitment to sustainable agriculture 38 P R O Du c i n g m ore 40 c o n servi n g m ore 47 i m provi n g l ives 62 G R I I n d ex 89 Stakeholder Engagement Our stakeholders include individuals and civil society organizations that have a significant interest in our business and whose involvement with Monsanto as investors, producers, consumers, customers, collaborators, employees, and regulators helps to shape our company and its products and services on a daily basis. 2011 Corporate Social Responsibility and Sustainability Report 11 BUSINESS PROFILE 3 S tak ehol d er E ngage m en t 11 T e c h n o lo g y a n d busi n ess G OV E R N A NC E 25 commitment to sustainable agriculture 38 P R O Du c i n g m ore 40 c o n servi n g m ore 47 i m provi n g l ives 62 STAKeholder engagement G R I I n d ex 89 GRI EN26 GRI LA11 GRI S01 GRI PR1 Monsanto, as one of the world’s leading scientific and agricultural business organizations, is committed to attracting and retaining the most talented employees, keeping them engaged and motivated, and providing a quality work environment where they can be increasingly productive. These commitments extend beyond the boundaries of the • Residential and commercial communities in areas where Monsanto facilities as we cast a wide net to identify and engage Monsanto has facilities and trade interests with a range of organizations, individuals, and partners in all • Non-governmental organizations and community groups areas of the world and across numerous disciplines. Specifically, • Research scientists, universities and colleges, foundations, Monsanto’s key stakeholders include: government-sponsored and independent research laboratories, • M  onsanto shareowners, financial analysts, industry researchers, climatologists, meteorologists, agricultural economists and and other members of the global financial community agricultural science organizations • Monsanto employees worldwide • Environmental organizations and associations • Farmers and their communities, organizations and associations, • Global scientific and food safety/security organizations including agricultural producer organizations, farm bureaus, • Global development foundations cooperatives and grower groups • International economic and social impact assessment bodies • Animal feed providers and distributors, breeders, and livestock • Global standard-setters and poultry farmers • Grain elevator operators, food manufacturers, processors, Monsanto is committed to making a difference in the world wholesalers, distributors and retailers through meaningful and significant initiatives and takes pride in its • Animal science organizations contributions to society on a local and regional level throughout the world. Reporting on environmental, safety and sustainability • Insect science and insect pest control organizations performance is a long-standing tradition at Monsanto Company. • Weed science and weed pest control organizations Our goal is to provide our stakeholders with greater transparency • Current consumers in all parts of the world and in-depth information about our activities. • Farm equipment manufacturers and distributors • Regulatory authorities, including federal, state and local Monsanto is committed to partnering with farmers, local governagricultural agencies, environmental agencies, commerce and ments, non-governmental organizations (NGOs) and other trade authorities, planning boards, land use authorities and stakeholders. These partnerships are intended to make positive water authorities changes on a local, regional, country or global basis. • Local and regional water utilities and authorities • Trade associations and industry-based organizations, particularly those in the agricultural sector, including agricultural chemicals, seed trade, biotechnology, bio-engineering and genetics GRI S05 UN10 Political Contributions & Lobbying • Local, state and national government officials and their agencies Monsanto is committed to participating constructively in the • National, state and regional medical science, health and nutrition political process, as such participation is essential to the organizations company's long-term success. For more information, visit • International trade authorities monsanto.com/whoweare/Pages/political-disclosures.aspx. 2011 Corporate Social Responsibility and Sustainability Report 12 BUSINESS PROFILE 3 S tak ehol d er E ngage m en t 11 T e c h n o lo g y a n d busi n ess G OV E R N A NC E 25 commitment to sustainable agriculture 38 P R O Du c i n g m ore 40 c o n servi n g m ore 47 i m provi n g l ives 62 Addressing Shareowners G R I I n d ex 89 Our shareowners are key stakeholders in Monsanto. As owners of our company they share a common interest in Monsanto, but they may have different perspectives and priorities. Monsanto frequently meets and engages with shareowners In 2005, recognizing that many of our shareowners have to discuss areas of mutual interest. In addition to our annual views about corporate governance practices they believe report, annual meeting, quarterly earnings reports and will contribute to our company’s success, we implemented conference calls, and our biennial investor conference, a shareowner outreach program to solicit their views on Monsanto’s senior executives participate in numerous investor governance and tell our governance story. Our program has conferences related to agriculture. In 2011, senior leaders continued and broadened since that time, as more of our large made formal presentations at the following conferences institutional shareowners have welcomed, and now even for the benefit of the investment community: expect, engagement on governance matters. Goldman Sachs Fifteenth Annual Agricultural Biotech Forum We conduct our outreach throughout the year, through a February 9, 2011 combination of in-person meetings, telephone conferences and written correspondence. As appropriate, we include in the Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. Strategic Decisions Conference dialogue the company’s subject matter experts, along with June 2, 2011 its governance professionals. Monsanto’s Board of Directors  S Best of Americas Conference UB not only supports this outreach program, it receives detailed September 8, 2011 summaries of each outreach meeting or telephone conference and copies of shareowner correspondence. Credit Suisse Chemical and Ag Science Conference September 14, 2011 A key aspect of our program is that our shareowners have the opportunity to set the agenda. This outreach is not just about Monsanto Biennial Investor Event Monsanto promoting its governance practices. It is about November 10, 2011 learning and understanding our shareowners’ governance priorities. Our company has implemented a number of changes Morgan Stanley Global Basic Materials Conference in governance practices as a result of shareowner dialogue. November 17, 2011 Even where a shareowner’s view may differ from our company’s 2011 Citi Basic Materials Symposium practice, we believe that both our company and the shareowner November 30, 2011 have learned from the exchange of ideas. Bank of America Merrill Lynch 2011 Industrials Conference, We strive in this outreach program to provide shareowners December 7, 2011 information about both our governance and insight into the board and management of the company. Our shareowners are We also meet regularly with stakeholders in several not sitting in our boardroom or in management meetings, so it is grower and industry advisory councils. Interested parties our job to educate them about the character and quality of our may provide feedback to our board through our website at leadership. The shareowners should be readily able to see the www.monsanto.com. focus of that leadership on Monsanto’s success and its willingness to carefully deliberate and address any significant issues facing Monsanto. 2011 Corporate Social Responsibility and Sustainability Report 13 BUSINESS PROFILE 3 S tak ehol d er E ngage m en t 11 T e c h n o lo g y a n d busi n ess G OV E R N A NC E 25 commitment to sustainable agriculture 38 P R O Du c i n g m ore 40 Addressing shareowners, cont. c o n servi n g m ore 47 i m provi n g l ives 62 G R I I n d ex 89 Monsanto 2011 Stakeholder continue to engage with specific stakeholders on various issues and opportunities related to sustainability through collaborative Focused Listening Sessions efforts, roundtables, individual meetings, and ongoing dialogues. To gauge the effectiveness of its focus on agricultural sustainability, Monsanto conducted a survey of 60 key stakeholders during the third and fourth quarters of 2011. Sustainability and Corporate Although the company has made a strong commitment to Responsibility Committee engage with various stakeholders and stakeholder groups through ongoing conversations, dialogues and numerous Recognizing the increasing importance of sustainability issues, collaborative efforts over the past several years, the survey in the fall of 2010 our Board of Directors renamed its Public marked the first time the company sought to obtain more Policy and Corporate Responsibility Committee to the broad-based feedback on its sustainability practices from Sustainability and Corporate Responsibility Committee. a cross-section of stakeholders around the world. The Board amended the committee’s charter to emphaThe sessions were unique in that the dialogue with key size the supervision of sustainability matters that the stakeholders was not about specific projects or issues of interest committee was already overseeing. Under its charter, the to both the company and the stakeholder, but was designed as board committee is responsible for actively reviewing and an effective “listening” opportunity to learn more about how monitoring the company’s performance and overseeing stakeholders perceived and viewed Monsanto overall. the management of risks as they affect sustainability and environmental matters. The committee also reviews the The process involved engaging with stakeholders in different company’s engagement with stakeholders, including hosting parts of the world who are aware of and value the company’s roundtable discussions to hear directly from stakeholder focus on the development and advancement of agricultural groups about the company’s work on sustainability matters. technology as a vital element of sustainable agriculture during the next several decades, as well as those stakeholders in the Examples of sustainability topics reviewed by the committee same geographic areas who aren’t necessarily strong include human rights matters, corporate social responsibility proponents of the company’s strategy or products. development projects to share technology for smallholder farmers, product stewardship practices and issues and Stakeholders provided valuable insights about where they feel opportunities in various geographies. Monsanto is achieving success along its sustainability pathway, as well as where the company may look to make improvements. Findings of the survey were formally presented in November 2011 Process for Defining Report Content to Monsanto’s senior level executives and to its entire global The continuous dialogues with internal and external stakeholders leadership team (the “MAC,” or Management Advisory Council), enabled management to establish priorities for the specific content which consists of more than 115 senior executives who are included in this report. A rigorous internal review process to responsible for the company’s operations in all parts of the world. determine the materiality of content to be included and excluded In addition to identifying areas where stakeholders believe was conducted by senior management and appropriate functional Monsanto appears to be achieving success, specific recommendamanagers (such as legal, regulatory and investor relations). tions were made with respect to where the company needs to make refinements or adjustments in its strategic focus, operations, The dialogue with internal and external stakeholders assisted efforts to engage with various stakeholder groups, and efforts management in determining the materiality of issues of importance toward transparency and disclosure. to stakeholders and guided management in establishing the scope and priorities for content to be included in the 2011 Corporate Monsanto recognizes the value of comprehensive stakeholder Social Responsibility and Sustainability Report. The essence of engagement in its focus on sustainability. The company plans to these dialogues is presented on pages 12–14. 2011 Corporate Social Responsibility and Sustainability Report 14 BUSINESS PROFILE 3 S tak ehol d er E ngage m en t 11 T e c h n o lo g y a n d busi n ess G OV E R N A NC E 25 commitment to sustainable agriculture 38 P R O Du c i n g m ore 40 c o n servi n g m ore 47 i m provi n g l ives 62 Employee Engagement G R I I n d ex 89 Monsanto employs more than 20,000 people. We’ve made it a priority to provide appropriate resources and training to all our employees so our company continues to adhere to the highest standards of business practices. Monsanto engages with its employees through surveys, town gated and shared confidentially with the individual people halls, conferences, educational activities and support for leaders. No copy is sent to the people leader’s manager or to employee involvement in community activities and initiatives. anyone else. To preserve objectivity, no scores are linked to Examples include: bonuses or pay increases of any kind; the feedback is strictly intended for development. However, the company’s Leader• Quarterly Pulse Survey Every quarter we sample ship and Organizational Effectiveness (LOE) Team can view 25 percent of our regular employees, asking five questions aggregated data to identify broad organizational leadership which comprise an engagement index: 1) Overall Pride in development needs. Monsanto, 2) Overall Job Satisfaction, 3) Willingness to Recommend Monsanto as a Great Place to Work, 4) Willingness • Development, Performance and Rewards (DPR) to Offer Discretionary Effort, 5) Intent to Stay or Leave the The overarching goal of Monsanto’s employee enrichment Company. Additional questions help measure employee program, DPR, is to help people deliver great results and attitudes about overall leadership effectiveness, as well as reward them appropriately. With Monsanto people worldwide a range of other topics related to current issues facing the thinking and acting in alignment with the basic principles of company. The survey, which is global, is administered in DPR, employees can all benefit, personally and professionally, 18 languages. The results are analyzed and presented to the from the success of their mutual efforts. This program enables Executive Team and the Board of Directors every quarter. employees to achieve their greatest potential through periodic and annual reviews, and rewards and incentives for performance. • Biennial Organization Survey Every two years Monsanto retains an outside vendor to conduct a census survey of the • Other Engagement Activities Monsanto has several organization. The survey contains some 50 questions and is training and development initiatives to help employees sent to all regular employees globally. The survey measures throughout their careers, including: engagement levels and drivers in more depth than the Pulse – Leadership development efforts, such as People Leader Survey. At the end of the survey process, managers across Learning Series, Regional Leadership Exchange Programs, the company can access a custom report for their team, which Global Leadership Exchange Programs and Annual People can be used for benchmarking with other internal groups Review & Succession Planning Process. and outside norms. Managers share the information with –G  eneral learning opportunities and development resources, employees and identify ways their teams can improve including the new Learning Connection Website (access to the working environment. many on-line resources), Career Development Programs • Annual Upward Leadership Feedback The Leadership-180 and an enterprise-wide mentoring and knowledge sharing gives managers with three or more direct or matrixed direct resource: SYNAPSE. reports the opportunity to receive anonymous feedback from –C  ommunications and outreach programs, such as Global their people about their performance as a people leader. Town Halls, functional/regional/divisional Town Halls, Respondents rate their people leaders on each dimension of employee “listening sessions,” and Global Business the People Leader Competency model. The feedback is aggreOperations—Leadership Connect Calls. 2011 Corporate Social Responsibility and Sustainability Report 15 BUSINESS PROFILE 3 S tak ehol d er E ngage m en t 11 T e c h n o lo g y a n d busi n ess G OV E R N A NC E 25 commitment to sustainable agriculture 38 P R O Du c i n g m ore 40 c o n servi n g m ore 47 i m provi n g l ives 62 Global sustainable ag conference G R I I n d ex 89 In GRI LA10 September 2011, Monsanto brought together leaders from throughout the organization for a Global Sustainability Conference in St. Louis. The theme of the three-day conference was “Global Farmer Customers Commitment. Local Leadership.” The conference celebrated the progress we have made in sustainable agriculture and During the conference, we were joined by farmers from India, was an opportunity to renew and reenergize our sustainable South Africa and the United States, who shared their regional agriculture commitments and plan for the future. About 175 and global perspectives of agriculture. Representing both smallMonsanto team members from across our global business, holder and large production farms, our farmer guests called for representing multiple functions, participated. Members of the the need for global approaches to sustainable agriculture that company’s Executive Team participated, including CEO Hugh are also locally adaptable. They supported a systems approach Grant. All regional teams presented sustainability plans on the to agriculture and asked that we continue to be a leader in last day of the conference. providing solutions to farmers and representing their needs. The conference proceedings addressed how the company could strengthen our collaborations with customers, employees, Industry Leader Engagement investors, and society to promote sustainable agriculture. The During a session on employee engagement, we heard from company invited representatives from more than 20 other comindustry experts from leading food and agricultural companies, panies, farming organizations and NGOs to share best practices, including Bunge North America, Campbell Soup Company learn about Monsanto and provide the company feedback. and Novozymes North America. They discussed the value of engaging employees with sustainability initiatives and also underscored the need for innovative solutions and collaborative partnerships. Their feedback for Monsanto was valuable and “Incorporating the social provided inspiration as to how all employees can be champions dimension into core of sustainable agriculture. business strategy is the NGO Stakeholders challenge that business In our focus on investors, we were joined by Mark Tercek, CEO faces for the next 20 years.” of The Nature Conservancy, and a former managing director at Goldman Sachs. He recognized Monsanto’s commitment to sustainable agriculture and encouraged the company to K EYNOTE SPEAKER MARK KRAMER, DISCUSSING “Creating continue to seek innovative partnerships in multiple sectors. Shared Value,” HARVARD BUSINESS REVIEW; Michael E. Porter, Mark R. Kramer, January 01, 2011. Mr. Kramer “Let’s put our top people together and your top people together. Let’s identify the issues where we think we can create shared cofounded FSG, a global social impact consulting value. Let’s base it on a kind of grand bargain, a conceptual firm, with Professor Porter and is its managing grand leap forward. The private sector putting conservation director. He is also a senior fellow of the CSR front and center in its thinking while the environmental organiinitiative at Harvard’s Kennedy School of Government. zations do the same with productivity and yield,” said Tercek. 2011 Corporate Social Responsibility and Sustainability Report 16 BUSINESS PROFILE 3 S tak ehol d er E ngage m en t 11 T e c h n o lo g y a n d busi n ess G OV E R N A NC E 25 commitment to sustainable agriculture 38 P R O Du c i n g m ore 40 Global sustainable ag conference, cont. c o n servi n g m ore 47 i m provi n g l ives 62 G R I I n d ex 89 Society Stakeholders In a discussion entitled “Balancing Stakeholder Interests,” we heard from leaders from the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation, Conservation International Brazil and Cotton Incorporated. Participants gave the company candid feedback, recognizing our successful global partnerships with conservation organizations and other NGOs. They, too, supported our commitment to exhibit bold action and leadership to address the challenges of sustainable agriculture. Key Takeaways The three-day conference provided a great deal of learning for our leadership and energized the company around our sustainable agriculture goals. The perspectives of our participants provided great insights and ideas on the issues that our global teams address every day. As we lay out the path forward to drive our vision to help Produce More, Conserve More and Improve Lives, we will remain indebted for their contribution to the company’s thinking. Participants were provided with a preand post-conference survey on the event. Results indicate that the conference was successful in energizing participants around our sustainable agriculture goals. Ninety-three percent of respondents felt the event “reenergized the organization around Monsanto’s sustainable agriculture commitments.” Ninety-one percent of respondents, post-conference, rank Monsanto as having “a great deal of opportunity” in the sustainability space. strong survey results 93 % of Respondents felt the event reenergized the organization around monsanto’s sustainable agriculture commitments 91 % of Respondents post-conference rank Monsanto as having “A Great Deal of Opportunity” in the sustainability space 2011 Corporate Social Responsibility and Sustainability Report 17 BUSINESS PROFILE 3 S tak ehol d er E ngage m en t 11 T e c h n o lo g y a n d busi n ess G OV E R N A NC E 25 commitment to sustainable agriculture 38 P R O Du c i n g m ore 40 c o n servi n g m ore 47 i m provi n g l ives 62 external organizations & initiatives G R I I n d ex 89 Throughout our company’s long history, Monsanto has always maintained a close relationship with farmers, initially in the U.S. and increasingly in all corners of the world.. We are dedicated to understanding farmers’ needs and helping water, air and wildlife resources, and are productive and profitthem meet the challenges they face in their efforts to increase able. Members include the agricultural industry, publications and production, maintain soil quality, limit use of water and other scarce associations, as well as conservation organizations and producers. natural resources, adhere to increasingly stringent environmental CTIC is supported by the U.S. EPA, Natural Resources Conservation standards, and, individually and collectively, move forward along Service and other public entities. the path of sustainable agriculture. • The Nature Conservancy A leading conservation organization In particular, we are focused on the issues faced by farm families established in 1951, The Nature Conservancy works around the on a global basis. Our numerous stakeholder engagements around world to protect ecologically important lands and waters for nature the world underscore our various commitments on both the microand people. Monsanto has a history dating back nearly two decades and macro-levels. The following are a sampling of sustainable of close collaboration with TNC on a range of topics and projects, agriculture collaborations and relationships with key stakeholders: with sustainable agriculture as an overall theme. TNC and its more than one million members have protected nearly 120 million acres •T  he National Climate Assessment (NCA) Monsanto is of land and 5,000 miles of rivers worldwide and operate more than engaged in the effort to prepare the 2013 U.S. National Climate 100 marine conservation projects globally. TNC addresses threats Assessment. A Monsanto Senior Fellow serves on the 13-member to conservation involving climate change, fresh water, oceans, and Executive Secretariat and the full 62-member Federal Advisory conservation lands. See page 50 for more details. Committee. He is also a lead author on the Ag Sector chapter and the Sustained Assessment chapter. The NCA, conducted • University of Florida To boost world corn production, scientists every four years, is an important resource for understanding and with the University of Florida and Monsanto began collaborating in communicating climate change science and impacts in the United 2011 to develop an improved computer model for predicting corn States. It covers already observed changes, the current status of growth. Such models are important in understanding the impact the climate, and anticipated trends for the future. The NCA report of climate change and decreasing water availability on agricultural process integrates scientific information from multiple sources production systems around the world. The new model, expected and sectors. NCA establishes consistent methods for evaluating to be ready in two to three years, will make projections showing climate impacts in the U.S. and provides input for federal science how interactions between corn varieties, environmental conditions priorities. NCA findings are used by U.S. citizens, communities and and management practices influence grain yield. When completed, businesses as they create more sustainable and environmentally the model, which focuses on corn products for food, animal feed sound plans for the nation’s future. The NCA is commissioned and fuel production, will be placed in the public domain to help by The U.S. Global Change Research Program (USGCRP), which researchers conduct studies and provide information to policy coordinates and integrates federal research on changes in the makers, industry personnel and extension agents who work with global environment and their implications for society. NCA began farmers. Monsanto’s involvement is part of the Agricultural Model as a presidential initiative in 1989 and was mandated by Congress Intercomparison and Improvement Project—or AgMIP—a global in the Global Change Research Act of 1990. modeling consortium that focuses on improving world food security in the face of climate change and enhancing climate-change • The Conservation Technology Information Center (CTIC) adaptation capabilities in developed and developing countries. The A national, public-private partnership, CTIC’s mission is to University of Florida, Columbia University and the USDA lead AgMIP, champion, promote and provide information on technologies and which involves more than 300 scientists in about 40 countries. sustainable agricultural systems that conserve and enhance soil, 2011 Corporate Social Responsibility and Sustainability Report 18 BUSINESS PROFILE 3 S tak ehol d er E ngage m en t 11 T e c h n o lo g y a n d busi n ess G OV E R N A NC E 25 commitment to sustainable agriculture 38 P R O Du c i n g m ore 40 external organizations & initiatives, cont. c o n servi n g m ore 47 i m provi n g l ives 62 G R I I n d ex 89 America’s GRI SO1 GRI EC8 Farmers The America’s Farmers Grow America program continued its success in 2011. Over 520 million people have been reached by the program through various media. The awareness that U.S. farmers are the most productive, environmentally sustainable producers in the world continues to grow. Monsanto advocated for farmers and farm women and supported agriculture communities throughout 2011. With its ever evolving success, the America’s Farmers Grow America program extended its reach to positively impact rural ag youth with the newest segment of community support sponsored by the Monsanto Fund, America’s Farmers Grow Rural EducationSM. OVER 520 America’s Farmers Grow Rural EducationSM gives farmers the opportunity to nominate a public school district in their rural community to compete for a grant of either US$10,000 or US$25,000 to enhance education in the areas of science and/ or math. School districts that apply for a US$10,000 grant will million compete against other school districts that are located in the People have been USDA-designated Crop Reporting District (CRD). A school district reached by the PROGRAM that applies for a US$25,000 grant will compete against schools that are located in its state or designated region. ® 177 grants of US$10,000 and 22 grants of US$25,000 were awarded. Overall, the Monsanto Fund donated more than US$2.3 million OVER 2.3 to school districts in 39 states through this program in 2011. $ The America’s Farmers Grow Rural Education Advisory Council selects the winning grant applications from public school districts. This Advisory Council is made up of 26 farmer leaders from across the country who are actively engaged in their million local communities through various leadership positions. These individuals are passionate about both agriculture and education, us dollars donated to school districts which is essential when choosing the best grant application. in 39 states The program started with a successful pilot in Illinois and Minnesota, in which farmers were given the opportunity to nominate a public school district in 165 eligible counties in those two states. The Monsanto Fund awarded more than US$266,000 to local schools in 16 Crop Reporting Districts through the pilot. The America’s Farmers Grow Rural Education program is part of a broad commitment by the Monsanto Fund to highlight the important contributions farmers make every day to our society by helping them develop their youth. 2011 Corporate Social Responsibility and Sustainability Report 19 BUSINESS PROFILE 3 S tak ehol d er E ngage m en t 11 T e c h n o lo g y a n d busi n ess G OV E R N A NC E 25 commitment to sustainable agriculture 38 P R O Du c i n g m ore 40 external organizations & initiatives, cont. c o n servi n g m ore 47 i m provi n g l ives 62 G R I I n d ex 89 Research GRI EC8 Center Tour Program Visiting our research centers is a unique opportunity to see, touch and feel the science that is dedicated to improving the agricultural productivity of the seeds that are planted on farms around the world. In addition, visitors to Monsanto’s research facilities meet and talk with the men and women who are committed to increasing the quality and quantity of the food needed by an ever-growing global population. Monsanto has hosted visitors for two decades. In 2011, 14,302 visitors experienced first-hand the research labs, growth chambers and greenhouses, while meeting the people who are working to improve yields, control pests and improve product qualities. Guests come from around the world and all walks of life. Monsanto’s Gothenburg Water Growers, agri-business, students and teachers comprised Utilization Learning Center 79 percent of visitors last year. Government officials, members of the media, Monsanto employees, and community In Nebraska, our Gothenburg Water Utilization Learning Center and civil society leaders completed the guest list. provides answers and solutions to current questions and issues Experience has shown that each person arrives for a tour raised in production agriculture. With a 324-acre research farm with their own perceptions of the world, the problems and more than 80 demonstrations, the center displays how that face the planet and ideas of what should be done farmers can use systems-based agriculture to manage drought to ensure a positive future. As they leave, many say they and improve yields while using fewer inputs such as water have new information to think about; what seemed simple and fertilizer. is more complex than they once thought, and that their One of the most visually impactful demonstrations shows farmers understanding of agriculture has expanded. the preferred ways to prepare for drought conditions from a genetic, trait and agronomic systems standpoint. In addition to showcasing our drought-tolerant pipeline technologies derived 14,302 through breeding and biotechnology, the center demonstrates a systems-based approach to help farmers manage dry conditions, the effects of planting population and row spacing under various irrigation regimes, and irrigation management options for limited water. The center has the ability to reach a diverse group of people to demonstrate how our technologies can help farmers produce more while conserving more. In 2011, nearly 4,000 people visitors hos te d visited the center—including farmers, dealers, retailers, crop in 2011 consultants, company executives, members of non-governmental agencies, politicians, university personnel and journalists. 2011 Corporate Social Responsibility and Sustainability Report 20 BUSINESS PROFILE 3 S tak ehol d er E ngage m en t 11 T e c h n o lo g y a n d busi n ess G OV E R N A NC E 25 commitment to sustainable agriculture 38 P R O Du c i n g m ore 40 external organizations & initiatives, cont. c o n servi n g m ore 47 i m provi n g l ives 62 G R I I n d ex 89 Water Efficient Maize for Africa manage them. During drought, tolerant maize hybrids are particularly susceptible to pests that are likely to feed on (WEMA) Update greener, healthier plants in the fields. In 2011, the Executive Advisory Board of the WEMA project requested access to insect WEMA is a public/private partnership, initiated in 2008, protection technology to complement the efforts to develop dedicated to improving lives through the development of drought-tolerant maize hybrids for smallholder farmers in Africa. products that help smallholder farmers mitigate drought risk and manage insect pressure. Monsanto agreed to provide the technology royalty-free to the WEMA project for Sub-Saharan Africa, except in the Republic Led by the Kenya-based African Agricultural Technology of South Africa where smallholder farmers already have access. Foundation and funded by the Bill and Melinda Gates and Howard G. Buffett foundations, WEMA key partners include the Maize hybrids developed in the WEMA project will help produce National Agricultural Research Institutes in Kenya, Mozambique, more reliable harvests and better grain quality. Monsanto estiSouth Africa, Tanzania and Uganda, the International Maize mates this effort could result in new white corn hybrids that may and Wheat Improvement Center (CIMMYT) and Monsanto. provide 20 to 35 percent more yield during moderate drought— enough to help keep hunger at bay for many in the region. Since its inception, the WEMA partnership has successfully developed a robust pipeline of new drought-tolerant hybrids that This effort is only part of what is needed to help these farmers will be available to local seed companies royalty-free over the boost their yields and incomes. Farmers also require good soil next five to six years. In 2011, the African Agriculture Technology health, improved training and information, and access to markets. Foundation entered two conventional maize hybrids into WEMA represents a great example of people from different National Performance Trials in Kenya. The first WEMA products institutions and backgrounds partnering together to achieve are expected to be available to farmers in early 2014. a common vision. For more information about the partnership, Like drought, insects are a major challenge for maize farmers please visit www.aatf-africa.org. in Africa, who often have little to no resources to effectively 20%-35% More yield estimated as a result of the wema effort In sub-saharan africa 2011 Corporate Social Responsibility and Sustainability Report 21 BUSINESS PROFILE 3 S tak ehol d er E ngage m en t 11 T e c h n o lo g y a n d busi n ess G OV E R N A NC E 25 commitment to sustainable agriculture 38 P R O Du c i n g m ore 40 c o n servi n g m ore 47 i m provi n g l ives 62 key stakeholder engagement profiles G R I I n d ex 89 GRI EN6, 14, 26 GRI SO1 GRI EC8 Meeting the challenges associated with addressing the world’s agricultural needs in the approaching decades calls for collaboration of stakeholders from virtually every sector in the food value chain, including governments, universities, think tanks, environmentalists, international economic organizations and numerous other entities in the public, private and social sectors. Over the past decade, Monsanto has sharpened its focus on farm-to-table, with participants collaborating to address sustainable agriculture. We recognize the need for comprethe challenge of producing enough food, fiber, and fuel hensive stakeholder engagement, including active and ongoing for a rapidly-growing global population—projected to reach participation in multiple stakeholder initiatives focused on nine billion by 2050—while conserving natural resources. increasing agricultural productivity, reducing the environmental impact of agriculture, and raising the economic success of the Today, Monsanto is actively involved in Field to Market, farmer in all parts of the world. participating with nearly 50 companies, universities, organizations, and industry associations, to develop and In this section, we highlight four of Monsanto’s stakeimplement methods for gathering information throughout holder engagements that are continuing to elevate the the food chain, to establish benchmarks and to find ways sustainable performance of agriculture in various parts of to improve productivity and conservation. the world. Monsanto is committed to these organizations and others with similar aims around the world, both through The Field to Market Environmental Resource Indicators the direct and continuing involvement of our various business Report evaluated changes over the past 20 years of leaders and through ongoing financial support to maintain data for land, water, energy use, soil loss and climate these initiatives and advance their work. impact for corn, soybean, cotton and wheat production in the United States. The work of Field to Market on commodity crops is considered Field to Market: best in class practice for measuring sustainability at the The Keystone Alliance for farm level. Among a variety of applications, the report findings were used to develop the Fieldprint Calculator, Sustainable Agriculture which helps farmers analyze how their management Monsanto is proud to be a founding member of Field to practices influence natural resource outcomes on their Market, an initiative of The Keystone Center that traces farms. This effort defines sustainable agriculture and its roots to 2006 and brings together representatives provides science-based, technology-neutral ways to from all elements of the food chain. Members range from measure performance over time. 2011 Corporate Social Responsibility and Sustainability Report 22 BUSINESS PROFILE 3 S tak ehol d er E ngage m en t 11 T e c h n o lo g y a n d busi n ess G OV E R N A NC E 25 commitment to sustainable agriculture 38 P R O Du c i n g m ore 40 key stakeholder engagement profiles, cont. c o n servi n g m ore 47 i m provi n g l ives 62 G R I I n d ex 89 The Sustainability The Vision they share focuses on three critical goals: Consortium 1. To meet nutritional demands while providing affordable choices across the food value chain. Established in 2009, The Sustainability Consortium (TSC) was 2. To conserve or enhance the quality and quantity of natural designed to develop science-based quantitative measurements resources and meet the challenges of changing climate. for evaluating product sustainability throughout the entire product lifecycle across all relevant consumer goods sectors. 3. To drive rural and national economic development around the globe with well-targeted investments. Monsanto was among the founding members of this global initiative, playing a critical role in the early stages of the orgaThe initiative established a “20/20/20” framework for achieving nization and collaborates in the development of a scientific results, which specifies: increasing productivity by 20 percent per framework for measuring and reporting on agricultural sustaindecade, reducing the environmental footprint by 20 percent ability. TSC is an organization of diverse global participants per decade and increasing the income of the rural family working to make the world more sustainable through better by 20 percent per decade. products, services and consumption. The global organization describes its vision as “creating a common language to provide The Vision’s 2012 report, Putting the New Vision for Agriculture into all decision makers with transparent and accessible information Action: A Transformation Is Happening, outlines six elements that are about the environmental and social impacts of the life cycle of essential to accomplishing large-scale transformation. These are products, goods and services.” Leadership and Stakeholder Alignment, Clear Strategy and Priorities, Concrete Investment and Entrepreneurship Pipeline, Enabling TSC delivers results through science-based tools that Hard and Soft Infrastructure Policies and Investments, Catalytic improve informed decision making for product sustainability Financing and Risk Management Solutions, and Robust Mechathroughout product life cycles. TSC is developing a standardnisms and Institutions for Delivery, Implementation and Durability. ized framework for the communication of sustainability-related information throughout the product value chain. This frameWhile the New Vision initiative draws upon experiences and work, called the Sustainability Measurement and Reporting developments occurring in many parts of the world, the report System (SMRS), serves as a common global platform for describes specific country-led initiatives launched by the Vision companies to measure and report on product sustainability. team in Vietnam, Indonesia, Mexico and Tanzania, and creation of the GROW Africa task force to develop similar initiatives for With SMRS, companies can improve the quality of decision other interested African countries. The GROW Africa partnership, making about product sustainability, enabling them to design convened jointly by the African Union, The New Partnership for better products, more effectively manage the sustainability of Africa’s Development (NEPAD) and the WEF, works to accelerate upstream supplies and suppliers, and communicate product sustainable investment in African agriculture to improve the sustainability downstream to consumers. continent’s food security. A transformation of the global food system is underway, representing tremendous potential to improve livelihoods and World Economic Forum’s (WEF) ecosystems worldwide. Along with the 26 partner companies contributing leadership and technical expertise, the Vision “New Vision for Agriculture” initiative’s knowledge partners—the Food and Agriculture Monsanto’s executive leadership played an active role in Organization of the United Nations (FAO), the Harvard the inception and development of the WEF “New Vision Kennedy School’s Corporate Social Responsibility Initiative, for Agriculture.” Today, 26 leading partner companies, and the International Food Policy Research Institute—are representing the full food value chain, are working to build actively involved in this work. The WEF’s Global Agenda Council a framework for advancing global agriculture over the course on Food Security, a high-level multi-stakeholder group, also of the next several decades. provides guidance in an advisory role. 2011 Corporate Social Responsibility and Sustainability Report 23 BUSINESS PROFILE 3 S tak ehol d er E ngage m en t 11 T e c h n o lo g y a n d busi n ess G OV E R N A NC E 25 commitment to sustainable agriculture 38 P R O Du c i n g m ore 40 key stakeholder engagement profiles, cont. c o n servi n g m ore 47 i m provi n g l ives 62 G R I I n d ex 89 Global Harvest Initiative The Global Harvest Initiative, a global multi-stakeholder The difference between the prevailing historical trend and the partner­ship, was initiated by Monsanto, John Deere, required higher rate is the productivity gap. In this case, to ADM and DuPont four years ago. The partnership identified close this gap, the rate of growth must be 25 percent faster priority policies and investments to meet our global agricultural than the recent trend, a significant challenge given the current needs. A key achievement was the production of the Global rates in many parts of the world. Agricultural Productivity Indicator (GAP) report. The GAP The Global Harvest Initiative believes this goal can be report serves as a leading indicator and a call to action for sustainably achieved by focusing on key priorities such as officials and policy makers to make policy adjustments, focus expanded and better focused research, approvals of new investment or commit additional resources. The GAP reporting science-based technologies, liberalizing and strengthening methodology involves the use of a well-documented the global rules-based trading system, strengthening and productivity analysis that reveals the relationship between streamlining international development programs, and finding inputs and outputs for the agriculture sector. The goal is to ways to mobilize private sector investment and involvement. increase the ratio of outputs to inputs per sector. On a global scale, there is a gap between agricultural productivity gains in recent years and the projected gains required over the next several decades. Sustainably doubling agricultural output by 2050 will require total agricultural productivity to grow at an annual average rate of at least 25% 1.75 percent from a relatively fixed bundle of agricultural resources. Yet, over the past seven years, that rate has averaged 1.4 percent (source: USDA). IMPROVEMENT IN growth rate required to sustainably double agriculturAL output by 2050 2011 Corporate Social Responsibility and Sustainability Report 24 BUSINESS PROFILE 3 S tak eho l d er E n g ag e m e n t 11 Technology and business GOVE R NANCE 25 commitment to sustainable agriculture 38 P R O Du c i n g m ore 40 c o n servi n g m ore 47 i m provi n g l ives 62 GRI Index 89 Technology and Business Governance As a technology innovator and global leader, Monsanto is committed to assuring the safety and quality of its products and promoting a culture of integrity through its business conduct. The Company promotes safe product stewardship internally, with its farmer customers, within the industry and around the world. It promotes integrity through the Monsanto Pledge and a strict Code of Business Conduct. 2011 Corporate Social Responsibility and Sustainability Report 25 BUSINESS PROFILE 3 S tak eho l d er E n g ag e m e n t 11 Technology and business GOVE R NANCE 25 commitment to sustainable agriculture 38 P R O Du c i n g m ore 40 c o n servi n g m ore 47 i m provi n g l ives 62 Monsanto Product Stewardship GRI Index 89 Product GRI PR1, 6 UN7 stewardship—which we define as the legal, ethical and moral obligation to ensure that Monsanto’s products and technologies are safe, environmentally responsible and used properly—applies the principles of the Monsanto Pledge to our products, actions and businesses. Product stewardship aligns our product offerings with the and processes are developed to continue safe and responsible commitment Monsanto employees make to our Code of delivery of innovative products to our customers. Business Conduct. Product stewardship initiatives are Our success depends on every employee’s active designed to assure the safety and integrity of our products and participation—product stewardship is everyone’s job. the processes used to develop, produce and manage them. INDUSTRY Stewardship In simple terms, product stewardship is about the responsible development, management and use of our Commitment to stewardship is not only critical to Monsanto’s technologies and products across our seeds, traits and success, but also to the success of the agricultural biotech­ crop protection businesses throughout our products’ nology industry overall. entire life cycles. Stewardship throughout Monsanto’s global regions includes row crops, vegetables and crop protection products. Effective product stewardship by Monsanto protects our customers, products and the environment. It adds business value by ensuring growers benefit from technology, and aligns our activities with industry stewardship standards. Monsanto is a founding member of Excellence Through Monsanto takes product stewardship very seriously and Stewardship®, the plant biotechnology industry standard for considers stewardship to be a fundamental component stewardship best practices under a program that encompasses of responsible business practices and customer service. the entire product development and commercial life cycle, and includes third-party audits to verify that program Product stewardship policies are set at the highest levels requirements are met. of the company and extend throughout Monsanto’s culture. Our commitment to careful and responsible product Monsanto is meeting the Excellence Through Stewardship development, management, use and discontinuation drives (ETS) audit requirements by having stewardship programs our efforts. Employees, acting as owners, embrace the and quality management systems that are consistent principles of excellence and continuous improvement. with ETS. With a commitment to global implementation and certification of all of the company’s world regions over time, Across the Monsanto organization, programs and processes four Monsanto world regions have already achieved ETS are established and implemented to achieve specific business certification: United States in 2009, Canada in 2010, Brazil in results. Certain key activities within these current programs 2011 and Latin America South in 2011. and processes also have an impact on product stewardship. As technology continues to advance, new stewardship programs ©2012 Excellence Through Stewardship® is a registered trademark of Biotechnology Industry Organization. 2011 Corporate Social Responsibility and Sustainability Report 26 BUSINESS PROFILE 3 S tak eho l d er E n g ag e m e n t 11 Technology and business GOVE R NANCE 25 commitment to sustainable agriculture 38 P R O Du c i n g m ore 40 Monsanto PRODUCT STEWARDSHIP, cont. c o n servi n g m ore 47 i m provi n g l ives 62 GRI Index 89 UN7 Stewardship PROTOCOLS status and compliance across our product portfolio. The fourth component is comprised of audit or verification measures to The framework Monsanto uses to set the path for stewardship confirm and document progress toward, or fulfillment of, activities is the Life Cycle Stewardship Activities Management required stewardship activities. Process, or LCStAMP, which guides the activities that carry each product through its life cycle and tracks responsible LCStAMP also provides a tool to retain documentation that product development, management, use and discontinuation. tracks the key activities impacting Monsanto’s stewardship commitments. The framework verifies consistency and There are four main components in the LCStAMP framework. compliance in stewardship efforts, helping the company The first component involves identifying the key activities that identify and leverage best practices for effective results. impact product stewardship for a particular product. The LCStAMP facilitates stewardship activities through proactive second component provides for stewardship planning and stewardship planning, provides verification of performance review sessions, allowing teams to monitor progress and plan and provides a mechanism for continuous improvement. for upcoming stewardship milestones. The third component is the Stewardship Activities Management Process Electronic The Product Stewardship team developed computer-based Repository, or StAMPER, a web-based IT tool that allows training on product stewardship and LCStAMP, which achieved stewardship teams to monitor and record key stewardship an initial completion rate greater than 85 percent and continues information, providing consistent and timely information about to be deployed across Monsanto’s world regions. Life Cycle Stewar dship Activities Manage ment Process (LCStamp) Framewor k firs t secon d t hir d four t h co m ponen t co m ponen t co m ponen t co m ponen t Identify the key stewardship stewardship audit or verification activities that impact planning and activities measures to product stewardship review sessions management process confirm and electronic repository document progress (stamper) 2011 Corporate Social Responsibility and Sustainability Report 27 BUSINESS PROFILE 3 S tak eho l d er E n g ag e m e n t 11 Technology and business GOVE R NANCE 25 commitment to sustainable agriculture 38 P R O Du c i n g m ore 40 c o n servi n g m ore 47 i m provi n g l ives 62 stewardship MATTERs GRI Index 89 GRI PR1, 3, 6 Monsanto is working with industry groups, in consultation with seed companies and farmer organizations, on mechanisms to transition proprietary biotech traits to so-called generic status to enable access to technology and farmer choice. This is a key issue in our industry right now, and the discussion will enable interested companies to strike an alternative arrangehas been generated in part by Monsanto’s first-generation ment. Under such an arrangement, Monsanto would either Roundup Ready (“RR1”) soybean trait because the last U.S. continue to support RR1 past 2021 or would transfer the existing patent on that trait will expire in early 2015. Farmers and seed RR1 regulatory data package to another entity that would companies that want to continue to work with the trait will have provide continued support. to address the regulatory implications of that decision. Being a leader in biotech trait development has benefitted Monsanto, but also means that Monsanto is the first company to have to wrestle with many difficult issues presented by this Sustainability of Biotech Trait Use relatively new technology. By providing a long lead time for those After Patent Expiry interested in continued use of the RR1 trait, Monsanto hopes that it provides a valuable model to the rest of the industry for Even after the patents have expired, seeds that contain RR1 the sustainable use of traits after patent expiry. will still be highly regulated in many countries to which U.S. soybeans are exported. Industry stewardship guidelines, such as the Excellence Through Stewardship program, take the position that a trait should not be planted in a country unless that trait has been approved for import into all important export destinations for that crop. Although Monsanto is discontinuing its use of the RR1 trait and converting to the new Genuity® Roundup Ready 2 Yield® soybean trait, the company announced plans to support key import approvals for the RR1 trait through year 2021. For seed companies that want to continue to use the RR1 trait, that notice provided over ten years (six of them post-patent) to make arrangements to provide ongoing regulatory support for the RR1 trait. The six years of support that Monsanto is providing following patent expiry is considered to be ample time for interested parties to create an entirely new regulatory data package to provide ongoing support for the use of the RR1 trait. That may not be necessary if the industry, working through the Biotechnology Industry Organization (BIO) and the American Seed Trade Association (ASTA), is successful in establishing a process that Excellence Through Stewardship® is a registered trademark of Biotechnology Industry Organization. 2011 Corporate Social Responsibility and Sustainability Report 28 BUSINESS PROFILE 3 S tak eho l d er E n g ag e m e n t 11 Technology and business GOVE R NANCE 25 commitment to sustainable agriculture 38 P R O Du c i n g m ore 40 PRoduct stewardship i m provi n g l ives 62 c o n servi n g m ore 47 award of excellence GRI Index 89 Monsanto created the Product Stewardship Award of Excellence to recognize individuals and teams for significant stewardship accomplishments that contribute to Monsanto’s business success around the world. The program is designed to reinforce the message that product stewardship is everyone’s job and promotes awareness of product stewardship by utilizing examples of stewardship in action. In 2011, 100 projects involving more than 500 employees The 2011 Product Stewardship Award were nominated. Twelve projects and 115 employees were of Excellence recipients selected for recognition of excellence and business impact. Recognized projects represent all regions where Monsanto Ag Container Recycling Council operates, and many projects extend across borders and The Ag Container Recycling Council (ACRC), supported have global implications. These projects include weed by Monsanto since the Council’s formation in 1992, is the and insect management best practices, proper handling oldest, voluntary, industry-funded product stewardship of regulated seed in field trials, environmentally sound program in the United States, providing users of crop disposal of chemical containers and obsolete treated seeds, protection products with an extremely convenient means to and the integrity of materials in Monsanto’s research and recycle used containers. To ensure that the collected plastic development pipeline. Recognized teams also helped is handled safely during processing, and used only in end manage issues and demonstrate the integrity of uses that have minimal contact with humans, the ACRC Monsanto’s products to governments and growers. audits all processing and end-use manufacturing facilities for compliance with all applicable health, safety and environmental regulations. The ACRC program now covers 42 states and has recycled more than 120 million pounds 2011 product stewardship of triple-rinsed containers. award of excellence Electronic Insect Resistance Management Corn Calculator 100 12 To help growers correctly apply refuge requirements for Genuity® SmartStax® corn and other insect-protection traits in our portfolio, the team worked with Dow AgroSciences to develop an electronic calculator to give growers one tool that will provide refuge requirements for any multiple set of corn traits offered in the industry. As a result of the broad Projects Involving Projects industry involvement—all four major corn trait providers more than and 115 employees (Monsanto, Pioneer, Dow and Syngenta) included their 500 employees were selected for products—the calculator has now been donated to the were nominated recognition of excellence National Corn Growers Association (NCGA). and business impact 2011 Corporate Social Responsibility and Sustainability Report 29 BUSINESS PROFILE 3 S tak eho l d er E n g ag e m e n t 11 Technology and business GOVE R NANCE 25 commitment to sustainable agriculture 38 P R O Du c i n g m ore 40 product stewardship award of excellence, cont. c o n servi n g m ore 47 i m provi n g l ives 62 GRI Index 89 Engaging a Key Partner as a Project Enabler in Brazil state authorities were approached, and progressive local The team launching Intacta RR2 PRO™ soybeans in Brazil farmers were enlisted as allies. Constructive dialogue recognized that product stewardship compliance was critical helped maintain isolation distances when neighboring to success. To facilitate compliance in demonstration plots farmers began planting corn and expedited regulatory in 500 growers’ fields, the team approached John Deere, visits to verify compliance and enable immediate harvest a leading supplier of farm equipment, to supply dedicated during heavy rains. machinery for the demo plots, allowing data tracking and South African Maize Seed Integrity productivity measurement. In 2008, four key corn hybrids were withdrawn from the Field Trial Compliance for Regulated South African market due to quality issues that depressed Corn Seed in India yield. A team of scientists from the trait integration and During 2010, the India Manufacturing Technology Team manufacturing organizations worked to identify the issue so began multiplying parent seed production and parent testing as to improve the quality of these products. In less than three of transgenic corn seeds. Working with regulated material years, the team was able to reintroduce the commercial biotech represented a significant change from the management hybrids into the market. This effort demonstrated Monsanto’s requirements for conventional seeds. Contracting with ten innovation and responsible use of technology to provide farms that met isolation requirements, farmers were briefed on solutions that assure product performance, while satisfying specific requirements, agricultural universities were contacted, expectations of its farmer customers. 2011 Corporate Social Responsibility and Sustainability Report 30 BUSINESS PROFILE 3 S tak eho l d er E n g ag e m e n t 11 Technology and business GOVE R NANCE 25 commitment to sustainable agriculture 38 P R O Du c i n g m ore 40 c o n servi n g m ore 47 i m provi n g l ives 62 MONSANTO CODE OF BUSINESS CONDUCT GRI Index 89 GRI SO2–3 Monsanto’s commitment against corruption starts with a strong tone of integrity set at the highest levels of the company. Monsanto analyzes 100 percent of all business units for GRI HR3 GRI LA10  Business Conduct Policy risks related to corruption. It maintains constant vigilance in auditing all business units for compliance with our GRI SO3, 10 & Employee Training Data anti-corruption policy and practice protocols. Employee training promotes awareness and enables Maintaining a strong culture of integrity in a dynamic employees to perform their tasks efficiently. The Code corporate environment requires continuous review and mandates compliance with all laws. The Monsanto Pledge oversight. In 2011, the Business Conduct Office implemented directs employees to act appropriately in any business updated global anti-corruption risk mitigation protocols, situation because no training program can fully describe launched these protocols across 100 percent of all the proper course of action in every situation. Training business units through Monsanto’s Regional Working helps employees anticipate situations likely to arise in the Group structure and completed numerous training and dynamics of our business and to be prepared to meet communication campaigns to assure complete coverage those challenges in appropriate ways. To this end, the and employee awareness. Business Conduct Office (BCO) supported seven training programs in various computer-based presentations for Regional Working Group membership includes the more than 20,000 employees. highest ranking business, finance and legal executives in each business region or unit. These teams oversee The training is focused on Monsanto’s social, legal and employee compliance with Monsanto’s anti-corruption ethical responsibility priorities, including: best practices program and controllership policies. • C ode of Business Conduct and annual certification Working groups pre-approve business engagements of compliance with the potential for elevated risk from, or exposure • Anti-corruption and Monsanto’s anti-corruption to, corruption. best practices The Monsanto Board of Directors approved an update • Human rights to the Code in the first quarter of 2012. An updated Code • Respect in the workplace will be published in 30 different languages to support • Employee opportunities to raise business conduct education of all employees as well as our vendors who are concerns for both employees and people managers required to adhere to the spirit and intent of our Code. • Copyright compliance For more information, please visit www.monsanto.com/ • Anti-trust whoweare/Pages/business-conduct.aspx 2011 Corporate Social Responsibility and Sustainability Report 31 BUSINESS PROFILE 3 S tak eho l d er E n g ag e m e n t 11 Technology and business GOVE R NANCE 25 commitment to sustainable agriculture 38 P R O Du c i n g m ore 40 Monsanto code of business conduct, cont. c o n servi n g m ore 47 i m provi n g l ives 62 GRI Index 89 The BCO also maintains training materials on a dedicated Business Conduct Awards website accessible by all computer-enabled employees in all global regions. Employees are encouraged to seek additional Each year, Monsanto provides formal recognition to employees guidance from their managers, their human resources who demonstrate integrity in exceptional ways. These employees generalists and the senior management team in their region. are personally recognized by the Executive Team before the Posters placed throughout all of our physical locations direct entire company via webcast during our Safety & Ethics Award employees to toll-free phone numbers and the Business Ceremony and dinner. Conduct confidential mailbox to enable direct access by all employees who feel their concerns may not be fully heard or Program Overview and History—In 2010, the Business appreciated in their local environment. Retaliation for reporting Conduct Office (BCO), in cooperation with other functional areas, good-faith concerns to the BCO is strictly prohibited. developed an awards program that recognizes exemplary behavior that supports and strengthens the BCO’s compliance Finally, corporate training schedules are coordinated across and ethics program and the company’s culture of integrity. functions to prevent employee fatigue in training and to space out the training requirements over the year in a manageable Concept of Award Program—The program recognizes group format for maximum content retention with minimal or individual employee contributions that strengthen Monsanto’s disruption to business productivity. culture of integrity, recognize and address compliance with all legal, regulatory and company policy requirements, or create efficiencies in existing compliance practices. Eligibility—All Monsanto employees worldwide are encouraged to participate and are eligible for recognition. Award Categories • Integrity Champion Award: Compliance awareness or educational projects or initiatives that result in employees, vendors or customers conducting business in a way that clearly demonstrates a commitment to integrity. • C ompliance in Action Award: Initiatives or action that detect and address internal control weaknesses that may lead to non-compliance issues. • O perational Excellence Award: Ideas and resulting action plans that create meaningful process improvements and efficiencies to existing compliance activities. • C ourage in Integrity Award: Demonstration of individual courage and foresight to recognize and proactively address observed non-compliance under adverse conditions. For 2011, across all categories, Monsanto recognized forty-two employees as regional award winners who contributed in a meaningful way to their region’s culture of integrity and fifty employees as global award winners who contributed to Monsanto’s corporate culture of integrity in ways that hold the potential for improvement across all or multiple business units. 2011 Corporate Social Responsibility and Sustainability Report 32 BUSINESS PROFILE 3 S tak eho l d er E n g ag e m e n t 11 Technology and business GOVE R NANCE 25 commitment to sustainable agriculture 38 P R O Du c i n g m ore 40 c o n servi n g m ore 47 i m provi n g l ives 62 UN Global Compact GRI Index 89 In 2009, Monsanto Company became a member of the UN Global Compact, the world’s largest sustainability and corporate citizenship initiative. The Global Compact is comprised of more than 8,000 participants, including over 6,000 businesses in 135 countries around the world. Communication on Progress 2011 GRI HR1–7 Human Rights Summary, Measures and Results UN1: PRINCIPLE 1 Monsanto remains committed to aligning its operations Businesses should support and respect the protection with the Compact’s Principles in the areas of human rights, of internationally proclaimed human rights. labor, environment and anti-corruption. Monsanto maintains • Monsanto adopted a human rights policy in April 2006, guided by its commitment to making the Global Compact and its the tenets of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the principles part of the strategy, culture and day-to-day International Labor Organization’s Declaration of the Fundamental operations of our company. Principles and Rights at Work. In 2011, Monsanto continued its focus on implementing the policy at its sites and with its business Through the Global Compact, Monsanto is also committed to partners. See page 64 for more details. engaging in collaborative projects which advance the broader • Monsanto launched its third mandatory computer-based Human development goals of the United Nations, particularly the Rights Policy training module to all employees, which consisted of Millennium Development Goals. fictional scenarios and quizzes, and required a 100 percent score The UNGC asks companies to embrace, support and enact, to pass the course. within their sphere of influence, a set of core values which UN2: PRINCIPLE 2 relate to the Global Compact Principles. These are Monsanto’s actions and concomitant results. Businesses should make sure they are not complicit in human rights abuses. • In 2011, Monsanto included human rights compliance clauses in the direct contracts it signed with seed production business partners. • Because the global risk assessments of the countries in which Monsanto does business had been conducted three years ago, Monsanto updated them in 2011. As a result, a number of country classifications changed, and the company’s efforts were prioritized to focus on high-risk situations to ensure that its policy and practices are aligned in the protection and advancement of human rights. • Monsanto assesses its business partners for compliance with the policy on a rotating schedule according to risk level. In 2011, the company conducted over 37,000 assessments, primarily in India and Africa. See page 65 for more details. 2011 Corporate Social Responsibility and Sustainability Report 33 BUSINESS PROFILE 3 S tak eho l d er E n g ag e m e n t 11 Technology and business GOVE R NANCE 25 commitment to sustainable agriculture 38 P R O Du c i n g m ore 40 un global compact, cont. c o n servi n g m ore 47 i m provi n g l ives 62 GRI Index 89 Labor GRI LA7 GRI SO10 Standards labor. In 2011, the company maintained this low level while it added 9,000 new hybrid cottonseed growers. See page 67 UN3: PRINCIPLE 3 for more details. Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and • In addition, Monsanto’s child labor monitoring program in its the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. business partners’ vegetable fields also recorded well under one • M onsanto continues to enjoy good labor relations with all its half of one percent child labor. See page 67 for more details. employee representatives. UN6: PRINCIPLE 6 • In 2011, Monsanto successfully concluded a negotiation Eliminate discrimination in respect of employment with a new union at its site in Ica, Peru. See page 65 for and occupation. more details. • Monsanto’s commitment to the elimination of discrimination UN4: PRINCIPLE 4 in the workplace can be found in its Human Rights Policy, Equal The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor. Employment Opportunity Policy and Anti-Harassment Policy, all of which are supported by the company’s extensive internal • Audits of labor and management practices are conducted training programs. routinely at Monsanto’s facilities and those of its business partners to ensure compliance with Monsanto’s policy and • Monsanto’s commitment to diversity has been widely recognized: identify situations which require intervention and remediation. – Ranked 41st on the 2011 DiversityInc Top 50 Companies for The audits are designed to ensure compliance with our policy Diversity List. See page 6 for more details. and all local legal requirements. – A 2011 rank of 46th on the 21st annual “Top 50 Employers” • In the United States, Monsanto continues to operate as the in Minority Engineer Magazine. payroll agent for many of its small farm labor contractors to – The St. Louis Legal Team received the inaugural 2011 Diversity ensure that the workers are compensated correctly. Award by Mound City Bar Association (MCBA), Missouri Asian American Bar Association (MAABA) and the Association of • Verification that Monsanto’s business partners do not engage Corporate Counsel, St. Louis Chapter (ACC). See page 6 for in forced or compulsory labor is conducted by independent more details. third-party auditors in certain world areas. Findings are reviewed with any grower where questions arise or questionable conduct is suspected and are acted upon immediately. See page 65 for more details. UN5: PRINCIPLE 5 The effective abolition of child labor. • Based on the standards articulated in the International Labor Organization (ILO) Convention, Monsanto’s human rights policy prohibits any form of exploitative child labor. In those situations where minors may legally be employed, Monsanto will act to assure that such employment does not interfere with the educational opportunities of the children and will not expose young workers to situations that are likely to jeopardize their health or safety. • Monsanto’s strategic program in India to eliminate child labor continues to record well under one half of one percent child 2011 Corporate Social Responsibility and Sustainability Report 34 BUSINESS PROFILE 3 S tak eho l d er E n g ag e m e n t 11 Technology and business GOVE R NANCE 25 commitment to sustainable agriculture 38 P R O Du c i n g m ore 40 un global compact, cont. c o n servi n g m ore 47 i m provi n g l ives 62 GRI Index 89 Environment GRI EN5–7, 14, 18, 26 GRI PR1, 3 extension and the safe and effective use of these products. The company does this through the use of Academic Research UN7: PRINCIPLE 7 Licenses (ARLs). ARLs are in place with all major agriculturally Business should support a precautionary approach focused U.S. universities—about 100 in total. For more inforto environmental challenges. mation, please visit www.monsanto.com/newsviews/Pages/ public-research-agreements.aspx. • M onsanto complies with all applicable laws and regulations in the testing and evaluation of our products for environmental See page 49 for additional examples of our efforts. impacts. Monsanto’s safety data packages meet the rigorous UN8: PRINCIPLE 8 standards of regulatory authorities around the world. Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental • M onsanto has established practices to further the responsible responsibility. management of its products and technologies throughout the product life cycle from product concept to product • M onsanto is committed to developing environmentally respondiscontinuation. Monsanto has established a Life Cycle sible products that help farmers produce more food and feed Stewardship Activities Management Process (LCStAMP) that using less land, water and other resources, including energy. guides and tracks the management of its life cycle stewardship The company’s products have helped enable farmers around the activities. It verifies consistency and compliance, leverages world to reduce their greenhouse gas emissions, pesticide use, best practices, facilitates proactive stewardship planning and energy costs and prevent soil loss to erosion. and provides for stewardship verification and continuous • M onsanto is also committed to reducing energy consumption, improvement. See page 27 for more details. emissions and raw material, including water consumption from our operations and facilities. Since 2000, steady progress has • M onsanto also operates within the Excellence Through been made on this commitment and reported. See charts on Stewardship program, an industry-leading product pages 58–60. The company is also a leader in habitat protection stewardship program sponsored by the Biotech Industry and restoration associated with its facilities globally. Organization. This program includes third party audits of the company’s stewardship programs and quality manageSee CONSERVING MORE section starting on page 47 ment systems. Monsanto’s U.S. region was certified in for additional examples of our efforts. 2009, followed by Canada in 2010 and Brazil and Latin America South in 2011. Information regarding the UN9: PRINCIPLE 9 Excellence Through Stewardship program can be found Encourage the development and diffusion at excellencethroughstewardship.org or on page 26. of environmentally friendly technologies. • As the leader in the stewardship of Roundup agricultural herbi• Monsanto’s technologies have been demonstrated to be envicides, Monsanto implemented a stewardship program called ronmentally superior compared to alternatives. The company the Glyphosate Endangered Species Initiative. The program has made them available to growers around the world, always provides growers with a simple web-based tool, Pre-Serve, to complying with national laws and regulations applicable to identify areas where threatened or endangered plant species obtaining approvals and use. According to the International may exist near agriculture. The website prescribes best Service for the Acquisition of Agri-biotech Applications (the management practices that growers must implement with “ISAAA”), biotech crops are now being used in 29 countries certain use patterns and application rates in these identified by approximately 16.7 million farmers. The company has made areas to minimize risks to the protected plant species. its products available to growers in 27 of those countries. • M onsanto enables the public sector research community to • M onsanto has broadly licensed its patented biotech and seed independently conduct research studies on commercially availtraits globally to hundreds of companies. This practice has able seed products in laboratory, greenhouse, and field settings facilitated diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies for the purpose of understanding the technology, education, to farmers around the world. Excellence Through Stewardship® is a registered trademark of Biotechnology Industry Organization. 2011 Corporate Social Responsibility and Sustainability Report 35 BUSINESS PROFILE 3 S tak eho l d er E n g ag e m e n t 11 Technology and business GOVE R NANCE 25 commitment to sustainable agriculture 38 P R O Du c i n g m ore 40 un global compact, cont. c o n servi n g m ore 47 i m provi n g l ives 62 GRI Index 89 • M  onsanto has developed the Roundup Ready PLUS™ program to further its commitment to stewarding weed resistance to glyphosate and other herbicides in Roundup Ready crops. Roundup Ready PLUS is a resource to help farmers stay informed about weed resistance and develop a proactive approach to control glyphosate-resistant weeds. Weed scientists, academia and others in the industry support these recommendations, which were developed based on the most up-to-date studies. For more information visit www.roundupreadyplus.com. • M  onsanto is also committed to preserving the utility of its insect-protected technologies through ongoing Insect Resistant Management (IRM) efforts. These efforts are focused on the following actions: – Continually working to increase overall awareness of the need for, and adoption of, strong IRM programs through Monsanto seed dealers, as well as the academic community – Carefully evaluating the need for updating its best management practices or agronomic recommendations as new scientific data becomes available – Continuing multi-year, wide-scale monitoring of insect populations through the Agricultural Biotechnology Stewardship Technical Committee (ABSTC), a consortium of agricultural • Monsanto’s products have also contributed significantly to the biotechnology companies and associations reductions in greenhouse gas emissions. As reported in this same study, Monsanto’s biotech crops have resulted in less – Actively investigating claims of insect resistance fuel use because of fewer applications of certain pesticides. – Conducting thorough, generational studies on sample insect The company’s herbicide tolerant crops, in conjunction with populations as appropriate to determine if stable and Roundup agricultural herbicides, enable no-till and reduced inherited resistance is present tillage agriculture. The reduction in carbon dioxide emission – Monitoring and studying the occasional performance issues associated with reduced fuel use and tillage practices in 2008 in fields with very high insect population densities that were estimated to be 1,205 million kg and 14,417 million kg, exceed control thresholds respectively. • M  onsanto is committed to working through public-private • Monsanto is committed to the proper use and long-term partnerships to facilitate diffusion of its environmentally effectiveness of its herbicide products through a four-part friendly technologies into developing countries. Monsanto has stewardship program: partnered with the African Agricultural Technology Foundation, and the International Maize and Wheat Improvement Center – developing appropriate weed control recommendations to develop water efficient maize in six African countries. – continuing research to refine and update recommendations This project is funded by the Bill and Melinda Gates – education on the importance of effective weed Foundation and Howard Buffet Foundation with “in-kind” management contributions from Monsanto. For more information, please – responding to repeated weed control inquiries through visit www.monsanto.com/ourcommitments/Pages/ a product performance evaluation program water-efficient-maize-for-africa.aspx. 2011 Corporate Social Responsibility and Sustainability Report 36 BUSINESS PROFILE 3 S tak eho l d er E n g ag e m e n t 11 Technology and business GOVE R NANCE 25 commitment to sustainable agriculture 38 P R O Du c i n g m ore 40 un global compact, cont. c o n servi n g m ore 47 i m provi n g l ives 62 GRI Index 89 Anti-Corruption GRI SO2–4 • Each year, Monsanto provides formal recognition of employees who demonstrate integrity in exceptional ways. These UN10: PRINCIPLE 10 employees are personally recognized by the Executive Team Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, before the entire company via a live webcast. including extortion and bribery. • The BCO actively promotes an open-door policy to all • Practical actions taken to implement Monsanto's commitment stakeholders who may have questions about how to manage against corruption begin with a strong partnership between emerging business, personal, or workplace situations, or Internal Audit and the Business Conduct Office (the “BCO”). concerns about questionable actions taken by themselves or This coordinated effort carried out through the company’s audit others. All inquiries and requests for guidance are documented protocols measures business unit performance against all and taken seriously. When appropriate, the BCO directs financial accounting obligations and corporate compliance investigations of inquiries, including allegations of corruption, duties by objectively assessing that performance against and considers the results of those investigations through compliance best practices. The analysis is conducted on both a committee of senior leaders. These leaders evaluate the quantitative and qualitative bases to assess best-in-class results of each investigation in a nameless/rankless review performance and to identify emerging gaps or issues. Company process to promote objective assessment. They then issue accountability requirements include written reports on findings and guidance for remediation, employee discipline performance to senior executives and business unit generated and assessment of the controls’ environment. These matters remediation plans for all comments noted in audit reports. are reported directly to the Audit & Finance and Sustainability & Corporate Responsibility committees of the board by the • M aintaining a strong culture of integrity in a dynamic corporate Director of Business Conduct. Actions requiring disclosure to environment requires consistent review and oversight. In 2011, a governing authority are prepared in cooperation with outside the BCO implemented updated global anti-corruption risk expert counsel and properly reported along with detailed mitigation protocols, launched these protocols across 100 commitments for remediation. percent of all business units, and completed numerous training and communication campaigns to ensure complete coverage • C  ompliance with all national and local lobbying laws continues and employee awareness. Monsanto also engaged in a to increase in importance. Monsanto takes great care to third-party review and update to the company Code of Conduct. ensure accurate and complete reporting of all lobbying activity. An updated Code will be published in 30 different languages Employees who meet with elected officials receive training to support education of all employees as well as our to understand which activities are acceptable and in strict vendors who are required to adhere to the spirit and compliance with relevant laws and how to properly record and intent of our Code. For more information, please visit report these activities. See page 12 for more details. www.monsanto.com/whoweare/Pages/business-conduct.aspx. For more information on Business Conduct, see pages 31–32. • Anti-corruption training is mandatory for 100 percent of employees with reasonable potential for exposure to solicitation for bribes. The BCO launches computer-based training with Additional information can be found on www.monsanto.com tracking systems that assure completion by all targeted under “Who We Are” and “Our Commitments.” employees. Special accommodations are in place for those employees without access to computers. Mandatory training events are supplemented with communications prepared in real time to address the most current trends in both employee requests for guidance and allegations of non-compliance. 2011 Corporate Social Responsibility and Sustainability Report 37 BUSINESS PROFILE 3 S tak eho l d er E n g ag e m e n t 11 T e c h n o lo g y a n d busi n ess G OV E R N A NC E 25 commitment to sustainable agriculture 38 P R O Du c i n g m ore 40 c o n servi n g m ore 47 i m provi n g l ives 62 GRI Index 89 Commitment to Sustainable Agriculture Since establishing our sustainable agriculture vision and defining our goals, Monsanto has shared highlights of progress toward those goals as part of our corporate social responsibility and sustainability report. While data availability remains a constraint, we are pleased to share a more thorough progress update in this report. 2011 Corporate Social Responsibility and Sustainability Report 38 BUSINESS PROFILE 3 S tak eho l d er E n g ag e m e n t 11 T e c h n o lo g y a n d busi n ess G OV E R N A NC E 25 commitment to sustainable agriculture 38 P R O Du c i n g m ore 40 c o n servi n g m ore 47 i m provi n g l ives 62 Our Commitment GRI Index 89 In GRI EN18 GRI SO10 UN1, 8, 9 2008, Monsanto established challenging targets for improving agriculture in three ways—producing more, conserving more and improving lives. Specifically, the targets are: Producing More Producing More Developing improved seeds and agronomic practices PROGRESS to help farmers double yields from year 2000 levels for corn, GOAL METHOD INDICATOR soybeans, cotton and spring-planted canola, and providing Double the national country-bya US$10 million grant pledged to improve wheat and rice yields of corn, average crop country yields through Monsanto’s Beachell-Borlaug International soybeans, yield levels in comparisons, Scholars Program. See page 78 for more details. cotton and leading year-over-year spring-planted countries Conserving More canola between Conserving resources by developing seeds and agronomic 2000 and 2030 practices that use one-third fewer key resources per unit of output to grow crops while working to lessen habitat loss and improve water quality. conserving More Improving Lives PROGRESS GOAL METHOD INDICATOR Helping improve the lives of farmers and the people who depend on them, including an additional five million people Reduce efficient use reporting of in resource-poor farm families by 2020. aggregate use of land, water eco-efficiency of key resources and energy; data in the These goals are challenging and we realize the solutions by one-third minimization of U.S. and other to achieve these outcomes will not come from Monsanto per unit of soil loss and leading output between greenhouse countries as alone. As a company focused on agricultural innovation 2000 and 2030 gas emission available we are pledging to do our part to support farmers as they strive to meet the needs of a growing planet. improving lives PROGRESS GOAL METHOD INDICATOR improve lives, net income global including an gains among meta-analysis additional five farmers of net income million people in adopting effects resource-poor improved crops attributable to farm families and systems improved crops by 2020 and systems 2011 Corporate Social Responsibility and Sustainability Report 39 BUSINESS PROFILE 3 S tak eho l d er E n g ag e m e n t 11 T e c h n o lo g y a n d busi n ess G OV E R N A NC E 25 commitment to sustainable agriculture 38 P R O Ducing m ore 40 c o n servi n g m ore 47 i m provi n g l ives 62 GRI Index 89 Producing More Productivity matters. Increasing the productivity of staple crops is important to meet global food security needs. As farmers become more productive on existing cropland, there is less incentive to expand cropland areas at the expense of natural habitats. Farmers who are highly productive can earn greater incomes and support economic growth in rural areas. 2011 Corporate Social Responsibility and Sustainability Report 40 BUSINESS PROFILE 3 S tak eho l d er E n g ag e m e n t 11 T e c h n o lo g y a n d busi n ess G OV E R N A NC E 25 commitment to sustainable agriculture 38 P R O Ducing m ore 40 c o n servi n g m ore 47 i m provi n g l ives 62 PRODUCING MORE GRI Index 89 UN8, 9 Monsanto established an aggressive target of doubling yields in four major crops over a 30-year period. This goal is highly relevant as global forecasted demand of corn, oilseeds and cotton over this same period will increase significantly. Unfortunately, farmers’ abilities to meet this increase in demand this data strongly supports the main point of this goal and by boosting yields (output per unit of land) is constrained by their demonstrates that supportive country-level policies for investaccess to innovative management practices and seed technology. ment and innovation across the three primary yield growth pillars are highly correlated with superior results in yield performance Monsanto is tracking progress against this production goal achieved by farmers. based on the policy environment established by the major producing countries of each crop. Based on a recent expert analysis by The Context Network, countries can be objectively classified into three distinct policy groups: leading, transitional and remaining. The Context Network convened an independent Yield Increase expert panel who analyzed both publicly available data and since 2000 proprietary Context data to develop their classification scheme. +33% Each country is classified based on enabling agricultural productivity through innovation (agronomic practices, plant breeding, and biotechnology) and investment. Based on these classifications, Monsanto will track and publish progress toward the goal of doubling yields for leading countries. Canola Yield These countries offer a policy environment that supports innova+30% tion and investments across all of the three yield growth pillars: agricultural practices, plant breeding and biotechnology. Farmers in these countries will have access to new technology and the opportunity to implement innovations at a relatively faster rate. Cotton Yield Through 2010, farmers in leading countries are making progress +20% toward the goal of doubling yields. Canola and cotton farmers in these countries are effectively on track with this goal, with yields that are 33 percent and 30 percent higher than 2000 levels, respectively. Leading country corn farmers have increased yields by 20 percent since 2000. Soybean farmers Corn Yield in leading countries have increased yields the least among our +11% focus crops, with an 11 percent gain in yields since 2000. In each crop, however, farmers in leading countries are outperforming farmers in transitional and remaining countries in absolute yield enhancement. With a decade of yield monitoring history, soybean Yield 2011 Corporate Social Responsibility and Sustainability Report 41 BUSINESS PROFILE 3 S tak eho l d er E n g ag e m e n t 11 T e c h n o lo g y a n d busi n ess G OV E R N A NC E 25 commitment to sustainable agriculture 38 P R O Ducing m ore 40 THE EFFECT OF POLICY ON c o n servi n g m ore 47 i m provi n g l ives 62 Corn Productivity Rates GRI Index 89 Monsanto is committed to doubling the yield potential of corn, soybeans, cotton, and canola crops. Measuring crop yield growth is one way to assess productivity growth in agriculture. Based on a recent analysis by The Context Network, the yield and productivity growth of corn, soybeans, cotton and canola Absolute Corn Yield Change crops can be objectively evaluated based on the policy Among Leading, Transitional and Remaining environment of various countries. Countries, 2000–2010 The Context Network report1 provides expert evaluation of Total Production (outer) Total Area Harvested (inner) the policy environment supporting innovation and investment 1.6 L EA D I NG Absolute Yield Change (2000–2010) MT/HA across the three primary drivers of yield growth: agronomics, 1.4 breeding and biotechnology. Based on these evaluations, countries are classified into three distinct policy groups: 1.2 • L  eading countries provide a policy environment that 1.0 TRANSITIONAL supports innovation and investment across all three yield 0.8 growth drivers. 0.6 • Transitional countries provide a policy environment that is R e mai n i n g only partially supportive across the three growth drivers. 0.4 • Remaining countries do not provide a policy environment 0.2 that supports innovation and investment across the yield 0.0 growth drivers. 0.0 1.0 2.0 3.0 4.0 5.0 6.0 7.0 8.0 9.0 10.0 2010 Yield MT/HA When evaluating the productivity levels across these country classifications, there are remarkable differences. National average yields and recent yield growth rates are the highest Corn Absolute 2010 2000 2030 2010 Area in countries with leading policy environments, followed by Yield Change Yield Yield Goal Harvested transitional and remaining policy environments. 2000–2010 MT/HA MT/HA MT/HA (1000 HA) MT/HA With just one-third (55 million hectares) of the global Leading 1.3 7.8 6.5 13.0 54,945 area under cultivation, corn farmers in the leading countries Transitional 0.8 4.4 3.6 7.3 70,242 produced more than one half of the world’s corn production (429 million metric tons). Combined, the transitional and Remaining 0.4 2.0 1.6 3.3 18,899 remaining countries occupy nearly two-thirds of the production area, but produce less than one-half of the world’s corn output. Monsanto strives to increase the yield potential of corn around the world. We invest in all three drivers of productivity : 1 Report: www.contextnet.com/120420%20Global%20 agronomics, breeding and biotechnology. Yet, fully two-thirds Crop%20Production%20Systems.pdf of the world’s corn production areas will not reach their yield The Context Network report uses different terminology potential until the policy environment accommodates investfor remaining countries. ment and innovation across all three productivity drivers. 2011 Corporate Social Responsibility and Sustainability Report 42 BUSINESS PROFILE 3 S tak eho l d er E n g ag e m e n t 11 T e c h n o lo g y a n d busi n ess G OV E R N A NC E 25 commitment to sustainable agriculture 38 THE EFFECT OF POLICY ON Corn Productivity P R O Ducing m ore 40 Rates, cont. c o n servi n g m ore 47 i m provi n g l ives 62 GRI Index 89 Corn Productivity and the Drivers of Yield Growth in Leading, Transitional and Remaining Countries, 2000–2010 Absolute Current 2010 Yield Change Total Corn Yield Level Production Agronomic Breeding Biotech MT/HA Score 2010 MT/HA 1000 MT (2000–2010) Leading 1.31 7.83 429,472 Canada 2.04 9.01 10,658 Chile 1.54 11.39 1,415 Brazil 1.29 4.19 58,200 South Africa 1.26 4.03 12,281 Argentina 1.25 6.94 22,600 United States 1.17 9.72 320,877 Spain 0.80 10.26 3,440 Transitional 0.78 4.40 309,632 Ukraine 2.39 5.32 14,968 China 0.74 5.48 177,656 Mexico 0.52 3.11 20,668 India 0.48 2.32 19,667 France 0.08 8.95 14,684 Portugal 0.99 6.74 653 Uruguay 1.63 4.70 440 Romania 0.81 3.58 8,461 Thailand 0.42 4.11 4,083 Turkey 3.97 7.78 3,733 Croatia 1.34 6.81 2,100 Poland 0.00 5.96 1,726 Paraguay 0.61 2.82 1,790 Colombia 0.89 2.88 1,537 Slovakia 2.10 6.49 1,102 Czech Republic 0.81 7.36 781 Philippines 0.84 2.63 6,881 Russian Federation 1.41 2.97 4,573 Vietnam 1.46 4.19 5,002 Pakistan 1.12 2.86 3,000 Continued next page Representing leading characteristics, enabling agriculture productivity through innovation (agronomic practices, plant breeding, and biotechnology) and investment. Representing transitional characteristics, this could represent: • A country that is now beginning to show signs of an innovative stimulus, but has not reached levels that reflect leading characteristics. • A country that has historically been a leader, whose yield growth has been capped by reluctance to adopt modern innovations. Representing remaining countries’ characteristics of not fostering innovation and investment. Report: www.contextnet.com/120420%20Global%20Crop%20Production%20Systems.pdf 2011 Corporate Social Responsibility and Sustainability Report 43 BUSINESS PROFILE 3 S tak eho l d er E n g ag e m e n t 11 T e c h n o lo g y a n d busi n ess G OV E R N A NC E 25 commitment to sustainable agriculture 38 THE EFFECT OF POLICY ON Corn Productivity P R O Ducing m ore 40 Rates, cont. c o n servi n g m ore 47 i m provi n g l ives 62 GRI Index 89 Corn Productivity and the Drivers of Yield Growth in Leading, Transitional and Remaining Countries, 2000–2010, cont. Absolute Current 2010 Yield Change Total Corn Yield Level Production Agronomic Breeding Biotech MT/HA Score 2010 MT/HA 1000 MT (2000–2010) Remaining 0.39 2.03 38,348 Kenya 0.04 1.52 2,733 Indonesia 0.39 2.40 7,267 Egypt -0.44 7.48 5,527 Honduras 0.09 1.50 600 Nigeria 0.44 1.84 8,997 Zambia 0.68 2.18 2,563 Peru 0.50 2.95 1,635 Guatemala -0.06 1.66 1,167 Serbia 1.35 5.28 6,489 Ethiopia 0.58 2.18 4,367 Tanzania -0.12 1.10 3,409 Mozambique 0.55 1.47 2,057 Venezuela 1.35 4.02 1,715 Uganda 0.84 2.08 1,767 Nepal 0.26 2.00 1,700 Burma 1.53 3.36 1,250 Congo 0.05 0.92 1,233  Representing leading characteristics, enabling agriculture productivity through innovation (agronomic practices, plant breeding, and biotechnology) and investment. Representing transitional characteristics, this could represent: • A country that is now beginning to show signs of an innovative stimulus, but has not reached levels that reflect leading characteristics. • A country that has historically been a leader, whose yield growth has been capped by reluctance to adopt modern innovations. Representing remaining countries’ characteristics of not fostering innovation and investment. Report: www.contextnet.com/120420%20Global%20Crop%20Production%20Systems.pdf 2011 Corporate Social Responsibility and Sustainability Report 44 BUSINESS PROFILE 3 S tak eho l d er E n g ag e m e n t 11 T e c h n o lo g y a n d busi n ess G OV E R N A NC E 25 commitment to sustainable agriculture 38 P R O Ducing m ore 40 c o n servi n g m ore 47 i m provi n g l ives 62 CASE STUDY: proJECT SHARE GRI Index 89 GRI EC8 GRI S01 UN8, 9 Indian farmer Jamuna Lal doubled yield and saved 30 percent on seed costs. Like many farmers in his village, Lal mixed corn seed with recommendations. The drill contains a double-box seed drill fertilizer and spread it over his field. He also used a traditional with sub sections divided for seed and fertilizer. This makes it planting method of a bullock-drawn plough based system. possible to adjust seed and fertilizer rates individually. It can Using this method results in the random spacing of seeds also be used for other crops. and direct contact with fertilizer—both factors which The development and adoption of the seed drill has enabled decrease yield. farmers to produce more and conserve more. Farmers have After seeing farmers experiment with mechanization, Lal seen yield increases anywhere from two to six tons per hectare decided to join a project that introduced him to a new sowing in one growing season. They’ve also seen better seeding rates, and fertilizing drill that would revolutionize his farming practice. meaning more seeds per hectare, which saves on inputs like fertilizer. The seed and fertilizer drill was developed as part of Project SHARE (Sustainable Harvest: Agriculture, Resources The team anticipates expanding the geography covered by and Environment), a partnership between Monsanto India the drill. To encourage farmer interest, the drill is showcased and the Indian Society of Agribusiness Professionals at many farmer events, including buyer-seller meetings, (ISAP), to empower cotton and corn small and marginal land demonstration plots, farm shows and government events. holders across three states and 1,100 villages. Project SHARE envisages developing farmers as the agents Project SHARE also has a farm advisory and extension service of sustainable change for farming—to become a lucrative that works to communicate the importance of modern enterprise for generations to come. This change is already cultivation practices to farmers in Rajasthan’s Bhilwara and manifesting itself in farming practices and the lives of farmers. Bundi districts. The project’s goal is to enable farmers to augment yields and thereby incomes. After one growing season, Lal doubled his yield and saved 30 percent on seed costs. He and other Indian farmers enjoyed higher yields because of one change in their farming techniques: mechanization. Monsanto India and ISAP realized improper sowing, which results in poor plant geometry in the field and affects optimum plant population, was preventing farmers from receiving the maximum benefit of Monsanto’s seed. To address the issue, Monsanto India, ISAP and Project SHARE’s participating farmers contributed to the cost of developing the seed and fertilizer drill, demonstrating the farmers’ willingness to not only learn but also adopt modern practices that they now believe can help them achieve higher yields. A seed and fertilizer drill is a device that controls seed and fertilizer quantities to conform to ideal spacing 2011 Corporate Social Responsibility and Sustainability Report 45 BUSINESS PROFILE 3 S tak eho l d er E n g ag e m e n t 11 T e c h n o lo g y a n d busi n ess G OV E R N A NC E 25 commitment to sustainable agriculture 38 P R O Ducing m ore 40 CASE STUDY: Developing Stover c o n servi n g m ore 47 i m provi n g l ives 62 as a Nutritious U.S. Cattle Feed GRI Index 89 Producing GRI EN6, 26 GRI SO10 UN8, 9 two crops on each corn acre. Corn stover is the stalks, leaves and cobs left after the corn Using corn stover instead of more expensive grain improves kernels are harvested in field corn. Traditionally, stover has the income potential for both the grain and livestock farmer. been left in the field to reduce soil erosion and help increase The cattlemen have a new alternative as they develop their soil organic matter. However, higher planting densities and feeding program—and the grain farmer has two crops increased yields have produced stover in amounts that exceed produced on each corn acre. levels needed to maintain soil health in the most productive Society also benefits. The U.S. government estimates that parts of the U.S. Corn Belt. Farmers have responded to this about 100 million dry tons of stover can be sustainably problem by increasing tillage to speed stover decay and reduce harvested each year. About 10 to 20 percent of this is enough crop residue in their seedbeds. to provide feed equal to one to two billion bushels of corn for Recently, scientists from Monsanto and Archer Daniels Midland U.S. beef and dairy herds. This is equivalent to a 10 percent (ADM), worked with the University of Nebraska, Lincoln (UNL) increase in the U.S. corn supply and could also free up 20 and Iowa State University (ISU), government researchers and million acres (8 million hectares) of hay ground for other uses. equipment manufacturers to take a new look at stover and By developing new uses for stover, the environment is identify how it can play an important new role in animal feeds. protected, and the strain on each corn harvest is lessened Using a pre-treatment, a method similar to the one that is used because the corn that was once destined to be animal feed to make tortillas, enables the sugars in stover to be better can now be used for other purposes. digested by beef cattle and dairy cows. This allows stover to displace whole corn in livestock feeding programs. 2011 Corporate Social Responsibility and Sustainability Report 46 BUSINESS PROFILE 3 S tak eho l d er E n g ag e m e n t 11 T e c h n o lo g y a n d busi n ess G OV E R N A NC E 25 commitment to sustainable agriculture 38 P R O Du c i n g m ore 40 conser v ing m ore 47 i m provi n g l ives 62 GRI Index 89 Conserving More Among its many important facets, sustainable agriculture involves increasing productivity, reducing environmental impacts, conserving resources and improving the lives of growers around the world. Over the past several years, Monsanto has been an increasingly active participant in broad-based, multi-stakeholder efforts aimed at resource conservation, promotion of biodiversity, improvement of water and soil quality, and management of the environmental impacts of agriculture. 2011 Corporate Social Responsibility and Sustainability Report 47 BUSINESS PROFILE 3 S tak eho l d er E n g ag e m e n t 11 T e c h n o lo g y a n d busi n ess G OV E R N A NC E 25 commitment to sustainable agriculture 38 P R O Du c i n g m ore 40 conser v ing m ore 47 i m provi n g l ives 62 conserving more GRI Index 89 GRI SO10 UN8 While making the necessary progress in yield growth is essential to provide nourishment for a growing planet, Monsanto recognizes the need to achieve these gains while using fewer key resources in the process. Consider these facts Monsanto is proud to be a founding member of Field to Market: The Keystone Alliance for Sustainable Agriculture. • Agricultural production occupies more than half of the habitField to Market has risen to the challenge of comprehensively able landscapes globally. According to a recent study,1 even measuring the resource intensity of major row crops in the with crop yields growing at one percent annually, cropland area United States. Key performance indicators measured by is set to expand by 175–220 million hectares to keep pace with Field to Market include land use, climate impact, energy use, food demand. This expansion is equivalent to an area the size irrigated water use and soil loss. of London, England, transformed to new cropland each week between today and 2030. Employing a three year rolling average of Field to Market data and analytical methods for 2010, farmers in the U.S. are • Irrigation to support crop production accounts for 70 percent tracking ahead of pace to achieve the goal of one-third less key of global freshwater withdrawals annually. The total demand for resources per unit of crop output. U.S. cotton farmers have water globally is projected to increase by 41 percent through reduced average resource intensity by 23 percent. Soybean 2030. This is equivalent to filling 100,000 Olympic-sized swimand corn farmers are 19 percent and 14 percent more resource ming pools every day between now and 2030. efficient versus the year 2000 baseline observations. • Agricultural production involves several energy intensive steps— Monsanto is supporting efforts to document similar data producing nitrogen fertilizer, pumping irrigation water, as well and analytical methods in additional countries. Over the past as planting, tilling and harvesting operations. Primary global year, multi-stakeholder efforts in Canada and Spain have energy demand is set to increase by 33 percent by 2030. This issued reports that largely align to the Field to Market effort expansion in energy demand is equivalent to plugging in three in the United States. Moreover, Monsanto is consistently billion, 100-watt light bulbs each day between now and 2030. voicing its support for more robust efforts to collect data Farmers will be asked to boost yields to keep up with the growing on a global basis that would allow for more consistent demand for food. Yet, they will also face growing competition monitoring of resource-use intensity levels in agricultural for natural resources and their sustainability and profitability are production systems. both linked to how efficient they are in converting land, soil and 1 Resource Revolution, November 2011, “Meeting the world’s energy, materials, food, and water needs,” nutrients to crop outputs. McKinsey & Company Report: www.mckinsey.com/Features/Resource_revolution The Expansion in cropland demand The Expansion in energy demand The Expansion in water demand is the Equivalent to transforming is the Equivalent to plugging in is the Equivalent to filling 1 London 3 billion 100 thousand sized area to NEw cropland 100-watt light bulbs olympic-sized pools each Week between now and 2030 each day between now and 2030 each day between now and 2030 2011 Corporate Social Responsibility and Sustainability Report 48 BUSINESS PROFILE 3 S tak eho l d er E n g ag e m e n t 11 T e c h n o lo g y a n d busi n ess G OV E R N A NC E 25 commitment to sustainable agriculture 38 P R O Du c i n g m ore 40 partnering to achieve conservation conser v ing m ore 47 i m provi n g l ives 62 and environmental gains GRI Index 89 Along GRI EN13–14 UN8 with Monsanto’s work to advance the efforts of various environmental and conservation partners involved in projects related to agriculture, it has collaborated with willing and enthusiastic partners including growers and farm families in all parts of the world. Here are two examples of current initiatives aimed at improving the environment and promoting biodiversity. Monsanto Mississippi River Audubon’s work focused on raising awareness of how people can be good stewards of nature in their own backyards, Watershed Project promoting individual actions to enhance water quality and habitat for birds and other wildlife. In an effort to address the volume of nutrient and sediment flowing into the Mississippi River System and the Gulf of Mexico In support of the projects of all of the partners, Monsanto from adjacent farmlands, Monsanto partnered with The Nature committed more than US$5 million. It also worked with Conservancy, the Iowa Soybean Association, Delta Wildlife and all four partners to share data generated from the National Audubon Society in a three-year pilot project. projects with its farmer customers and to encourage The project brought new tools and disciplines to help farmers on-farm adoption of management practices that contribute along the Mississippi River efficiently produce higher-yielding to water quality. crops for food, fiber and fuel in ways that further preserve water Data collected from all projects has been reported annually quality and support diverse and abundant wildlife populations. and is expected to generate novel approaches which can be The Nature Conservancy conducted a conservation project in implemented broadly across rural landscapes. The findings four watersheds in the Upper Mississippi River basin. Monsanto from all projects have been shared with farmers to help them worked with local partners—including farmers in those wateradapt and refine practices that preserve water quality and sheds—to implement and study conservation techniques that improve wildlife habitat. best lower nutrient and sediment concentrations by reducing runoff from agricultural landscapes. Meanwhile, the Iowa Soybean Association researched and Conservation International in Brazil paired micro-watersheds in the Boone and Raccoon Rivers. The association coordinated conservation outreach in those watersheds, including monitoring, measurement and evaluation of on-farm resources and environmental outcomes. Delta Wildlife installed Best Management Practices (BMPs) on approximately 1,000 sites on working farms in part of the Lower Mississippi Valley, affecting 51,572 acres (20,870 hectares). The dramatic expansion of Brazil’s agricultural sector is an Designed to reduce off-site movement of nutrients and sediments, undeniable story of successful productivity growth, but it also the BMPs stop an estimated 9,203 tons of sediment per year, 10,080 has created significant opportunities for effective conservation pounds of Phosphorus per year, and 20,160 pounds of Nitrogen and forest preservation. Under the watchful eye of the Brazilian per year. These practices provide additional environmental benefits, government, the country’s farmers are legally obligated to set including improved fish and wildlife habitat and water conservation. aside portions of their property for conservation. 2011 Corporate Social Responsibility and Sustainability Report 49 BUSINESS PROFILE 3 S tak eho l d er E n g ag e m e n t 11 T e c h n o lo g y a n d busi n ess G OV E R N A NC E 25 commitment to sustainable agriculture 38 partnering to achieve conservation P R O Du c i n g m ore 40 and environmental gains, cont. conser v ing m ore 47 i m provi n g l ives 62 GRI Index 89 To help farmers meet conservation requirements in two biodiverUN8 Solutions to Our Greatest Challenges sity corridors—one in the Atlantic Forest (Northeast Corridor) By Michael Reuter, Director of THe Nature Conservancy and the other in Cerrado (Jalapão/Western Bahia Corridor)— Monsanto has partnered with Conservation International (CI). How do we feed a population projected to rise from seven billion Through this collaboration, we believe we will encourage positive to more than nine billion people by 2050 without damaging the changes for biodiversity and natural habitats. natural systems that underpin our economy and livelihoods? Finding solutions to this challenge was at the root of a three-year initiative Founded in 1987, CI empowers groups to responsibly and launched by Monsanto and The Nature Conservancy (TNC) in 2009. sustainably care for the environment, our global biodiversity The initiative brought together agricultural partners to target the and the long term well-being of people. Headquartered in the nutrients and sediments that affect water quality in the Mississippi Washington, DC, area, the organization has 900 employees River and Gulf of Mexico. Four rivers and their watersheds were working in nearly 30 countries on four continents, plus more chosen to test practices on working farms that keep valuable soil than 1,000 partners around the world. and nutrients on fields and out of streams. In Brazil, the combined efforts of CI and Monsanto support the At Minnesota’s Root River watershed, short-term results show implementation of best practices along Monsanto’s supply chain. reductions can amount to as much as 53,520 pounds of nitrates The work also involves the implementation of concrete conservaentering the watershed each year. In the Boone River watershed in tion actions in the two biodiversity corridors. Iowa, where the Iowa Soybean Association is an active partner, we can approximate nitrate load reduction of 75,915 pounds per year. Specifically, their objectives are: But how do results like these help solve the challenge outlined in 1. Preventing illegal deforestation my initial question? To feed a growing and more affluent population, 2. Preventing the local extinction of species we will have to increase food, fiber and energy production. Simply clearing more land isn’t a sustainable option; already more than 3. Ensuring compliance with legislation in the agriculture 40 percent of the Earth’s land has been cleared for agriculture, and and livestock supply chain the majority of the world’s finite amount of fresh water is already The initiative focuses on two regions of Brazil identified by CI as allocated to this purpose as well. biodiversity hot spots; they are among 34 areas considered the So to succeed in meeting global demand for agricultural biologically richest and most threatened in the world, having lost commodities—to double our production and feed a population at least 75 percent of their original vegetation. Thus, they are of nine billion—we’ll have to intensify agriculture on existing lands priority areas for conservation actions. The areas also coincide in a sustainable manner. with regions where Monsanto operates and where agribusiness The promising results we’re seeing from Monsanto’s investment in has a significant impact on the environment. these four watersheds suggest we can meet this challenge, but only CI is advising Monsanto on ways it can improve its environmental if we see production and conservation as two aspects of one goal. practices in relation to protecting the region. In turn, Monsanto We are fully capable of designing farming systems that produce is adopting the conservation of biodiversity in the Cerrado and higher yields of agricultural commodities and clean water at the the Atlantic Forest as one of the key elements of its business same time. So in that vein this initiative has not only been about strategies in the region. As part of the partnership, both institufarming practices in places like Iowa and Minnesota; it has the tions are carrying out activities that will produce concrete and potential to transform agricultural practices around the world. measurable results to guarantee the conservation of biodiversity We at TNC are proud to be part of such an effort and are grateful in areas selected as critical by both partners. for Monsanto’s willingness to provide regional and global leadership on these issues—to invest in science-based solutions to our greatest challenges. The Nature Conservancy’s Great Rivers Partnership brings together diverse partners and builds experience and scientific knowledge through successful conservation projects along some of the world’s most important rivers. 2011 Corporate Social Responsibility and Sustainability Report 50 BUSINESS PROFILE 3 S tak eho l d er E n g ag e m e n t 11 T e c h n o lo g y a n d busi n ess G OV E R N A NC E 25 commitment to sustainable agriculture 38 P R O Du c i n g m ore 40 conser v ing m ore 47 i m provi n g l ives 62 habitats protected or restored GRI Index 89 GRI EN11–14 UN7, 8 Monsanto strives to be a leader in respecting the land and conserving our planet’s natural resources for many years. Our efforts to maintain sustainable, bio-diverse ecosystems at various company sites continue to improve around the globe. Monsanto’s Sensitive Habitat term management of the preserve. The main goals are to conserve and enhance existing ecological communities, Preservation Program manage endangered species, protect archaeological features Monsanto has been recognized by the Wildlife Habitat Council and accommodate research. (WHC) for its exceptional commitment to protecting the The Muscatine advisory committee also focuses on research, environment. The WHC is an independent, nonprofit organizaeducation and providing controlled access to the public. In tion made up of businesses, conservation organizations and November 2004, the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) individuals dedicated to protecting and enhancing wildlife and the Wildlife Habitat Council recognized the Muscatine plant habitat around the world. The WHC has recognized the efforts with a joint special commendation for outstanding achievements of fifteen Monsanto-operated global sites by awarding them in environmental management and wildlife habitat restoration. In with its Wildlife at Work and Corporate Lands for Learning (CLL) 2008, the preserve was named a Signature of Sustainability Site (for six of the fifteen sites) certifications. by the Wildlife Habitat Council for demonstrating the potential of voluntary private sector involvement for biodiversity conservation. • Foundation Seed; Cachoeira Dourada, Minas Gerais (MG), Brazil Situated along the Rio Paraíba, this 1,255 acre (507.8 hectares) foundation seed site contains approximately 439 acres (177.6 hectares) dedicated to habitat preservation. Monkeys, anteaters, and agoutis are just a few of the Wildlife at Work wildlife species that benefit from the site’s forested habitat. Since 2007, the wildlife team has worked with volunteers This program is focused on voluntary efforts which exceed to plant over 14,000 trees on-site. An additional 1,100 trees, regulatory requirements. Emphasis is put on community with conservation-themed brochures attached, have been involvement in habitat projects by collaborating with local distributed to the public along local highways as part of Arbor schools and organizations. As of 2011, Monsanto’s site in Day events. Muscatine, Iowa, and Monsanto’s foundation seed site in Cachoeira Dourada, Brazil, are most widely recognized for their The wildlife team places great emphasis on raising environexceptional efforts in habitat preservation. Here are some of mental awareness among employees, as well as members the reasons why: of the nearby communities of Cachoeira Dourada and Capinópolis. The annual PróVerde program includes wildlife • Big Sand Mound Nature Preserve; Muscatine, Iowa and conservation lectures, drawing competitions, release This nature preserve consists of 510 acres of unique sand of hatchery fingerlings, and extensive river clean-up. prairie ecosystem that is home to several rare and threatened species located along the Mississippi River near Muscatine,  or Arbor Day 2009, Monsanto employees handed 250 native F Iowa. An ecological advisory committee oversees the longseedlings to community members. For Environment Week in ©2012. Wildlife Habitat Council. All Rights Reserved. 2011 Corporate Social Responsibility and Sustainability Report 51 BUSINESS PROFILE 3 S tak eho l d er E n g ag e m e n t 11 T e c h n o lo g y a n d busi n ess G OV E R N A NC E 25 commitment to sustainable agriculture 38 P R O Du c i n g m ore 40 Habitats protected or restored, cont. conser v ing m ore 47 i m provi n g l ives 62 GRI Index 89 June each year, employees hand out 150 to 300 seedlings to Corporate Lands for Learning (CLL) community members and participate in a trash clean-up This program fosters a clear understanding of the interdepenevent along the roads. Employees also participate in the dence of ecology, economics, and social structures in both cleaning of the Paranaiba River Banks and an annual fish urban and rural areas. CLL certification provides corporate release. In 2011, the total number of fish released into the sites with third-party recognition for their educational efforts. Paranaiba River was 10,000. As of 2011, Monsanto has six sites awarded with a (CLL) Other habitat enhancement projects include a pollinator certificate. Below is an example of the impressive work in garden, where hummingbirds were observed within the first habitat preservation work done by two of those locations: year. Three rock piles and one brush pile were created •C amaçari Plant in Camaçari, Brazil The Camaçari Plant in a non-vegetated area to supply cover for reptiles, amphibis located in the Atlantic Forest region, which runs from ians and small animals. In the future, the wildlife team would northern Argentina, through Paraguay and eastern Uruguay, like to add more diversity to the native fish species raised in up the Atlantic Coast of South America to northeastern the hatchery. Brazil. The Atlantic Forest is widely considered one of the most threatened biosystems on the planet and one of the M  onsanto’s effort in improving life of local communities is highest priorities for conservation due to intense pressures evident in the work of the Education Advisory Committee of habitat loss and degradation combined with extraordinary (EAC) in Cachoeira Dourada. The EAC works closely with native biodiversity. Less than 10 percent of the forest local schools to enhance the environmental and conservation still exists today. knowledge of the students in their community. The Committee also involves adults in many of the annual clean-up events The Camaçari Plant team designed a project called Projeto to support a healthy environment. For example, in 2009, 52 Florescer, to restore a parcel of forest that will connect two elementary students from Colégio Sérgio de Freitas Pacheco larger Atlantic Forest fragments. The mascot species of this visited the site. They were taught about reforestation, native effort is the Camaçari tree—once common in the region, but species, and wildlife management. About 250 students from extremely rare nowadays due to extensive exploitation—the Escola Municipal Branca de Neve Elementary School and over namesake of the site’s city. 340 students from Escola Municipal Higino Guerra planted 20 trees at each of their schools, with help from the EAC and In order to link Projeto Florescer to a broader regional Monsanto. Students also learned about watering trees, and restoration initiative, the team formalized a partnership with choosing the correct location for a seedling. Other topics Instituto Corredor Ecológico Costa dos Coqueiros (Coconut included general environmental awareness and recycling. Coast Ecological Corridor Institute), a nonprofit organization dedicated to promoting reforestation north of Bahia state. Through this partnership, Projeto Florescer will ultimately be a continuous protected corridor restored by a number of landowners in the area. •F ábrica São José dos Campos in São José dos Campos, Brazil This site is also located in the Atlantic Forest region. Employees at the plant work to restore fragments of the rainforest both on-site and elsewhere in the city of São José dos Campos. On the site, employees worked with local native plant experts to recreate an Atlantic Forest fragment in an area that was completely devoid of native vegetation. The reforestation 2011 Corporate Social Responsibility and Sustainability Report 52 BUSINESS PROFILE 3 S tak eho l d er E n g ag e m e n t 11 T e c h n o lo g y a n d busi n ess G OV E R N A NC E 25 commitment to sustainable agriculture 38 P R O Du c i n g m ore 40 Habitats protected or restored, cont. conser v ing m ore 47 i m provi n g l ives 62 GRI Index 89 effort included planting 12,500 native trees and monitoring the development of the native plant community. Species inventories indicate that a variety of native birds and other wildlife use the restored habitat. Teaching others how to make a difference helps maintain Monsanto’s long-term commitment to wildlife management and habitat preservation. In our efforts to inspire people and communities through example, Monsanto employees engage in a wide array of volunteer efforts within their local communities, and establish strategic partnerships for wildlife habitat preservation and restoration. One example includes Monsanto’s involvement in work to increase the moose population in the Rocky Mountains. Increasing the Population Awards & Special Recognition of Moose in the Rocky Mountains In addition to WHC certifications, several Monsanto locations Wild rose, sandbar willow and red osier dogwood are rich and have been awarded and recognized throughout the years for nutritious food sources for the Shiras moose, which lives in their exceptional efforts in wildlife habitat preservation: the Rocky Mountains. Every year, Monsanto employees and • Two of our reclaimed mines in Soda Springs, Idaho, are certifamily members volunteer their time to re-establish stands fied wildlife sites, with the first receiving certification in 1993. of these trees and shrubs in places where land and snow • In 2004, Monsanto was awarded EPA’s Performance Track slides, flooding, fire or other developments have destroyed WHC Special Commendation for its Big Sand Mound Nature pre-existing stands. Preserve located in Muscatine, Iowa. After joining one of these events, Mike Mathews, president • As of 2006, three Monsanto plants have received special of the North American Moose Foundation, observed that recognition for their wildlife habitat enhancement efforts: while moose populations and habitat around the world – Luling plant have diminished, the Rocky Mountain area of Southeastern Idaho has seen its moose population increase each year. – Muscatine plant According to Mathews, “Monsanto’s state of the art –S  oda Springs plant practices and world-class reclamation have helped to • In 2009, Monsanto was awarded North American Pollinator make moose conservation and phosphorus production Protection Campaign (NAPPC) WHC Pollinator Award for its compatible uses of the land.” World Headquarters in Creve Coeur, Missouri. • In 2011, our World Headquarters in Creve Coeur, Missouri, was nominated for the “Prairies for Tomorrow Award” by the WHC. 2011 Corporate Social Responsibility and Sustainability Report 53 BUSINESS PROFILE 3 S tak eho l d er E n g ag e m e n t 11 T e c h n o lo g y a n d busi n ess G OV E R N A NC E 25 commitment to sustainable agriculture 38 P R O Du c i n g m ore 40 Habitats protected or restored, cont. conser v ing m ore 47 i m provi n g l ives 62 GRI Index 89 Monsanto-Operated WHC Certified Sites S TAT E / P R O G R AM N AM E P R O G R A M S TAT U S CITY P R OV I N C E C O U N T RY Ashton Soybean Production Wildlife at Work certified Ashton IL USA Big Sand Mound Nature Preserve Wildlife at Work certified Muscatine IA USA Wildlife at Work & Camaçari Plant Camaçari BA Brazil Corporate Lands for Learning certified Constantine Production Plant Wildlife at Work certified Constantine MI USA Wildlife at Work & Creve Coeur World Headquarters Creve Coeur MO USA Corporate Lands for Learning certified Wildlife at Work & Fábrica São José dos Campos São José dos Campos SP Brazil Corporate Lands for Learning certified Farm and Wildlife Management Center Wildlife at Work certified Stuttgart AR USA Wildlife at Work & Foundation Seed—Cachoeira Dourada/MG Cachoeira Dourada MG Brazil Corporate Lands for Learning certified Grinnell, Iowa Wildlife at Work certified Grinnell IA USA Illiopolis Seed Production Wildlife at Work certified Illiopolis IL USA Wildlife at Work & Luling Plant Luling LA USA Corporate Lands for Learning certified Monsanto Company Chesterfield Wildlife at Work certified Chesterfield MO USA Wildlife at Work & Muscatine Plant Muscatine IA USA Corporate Lands for Learning certified Soda Springs Wildlife at Work certified Soda Springs ID USA Storm Lake, Iowa Production Site Wildlife at Work certified Storm Lake IA USA 2011 Corporate Social Responsibility and Sustainability Report 54 BUSINESS PROFILE 3 S tak eho l d er E n g ag e m e n t 11 T e c h n o lo g y a n d busi n ess G OV E R N A NC E 25 commitment to sustainable agriculture 38 P R O Du c i n g m ore 40 conser v ing m ore 47 i m provi n g l ives 62 irrigation improvements GRI Index 89 According GRI EN26 UN7, 8 to the United Nations, around 700 million people in 43 countries currently suffer from water scarcity. By 2025, 1.8 billion will be living in countries or regions with absolute water scarcity, and two-thirds of the world’s population could be living under water stressed conditions. Monsanto believes that increasing the amount of bushels produced per gallon is a crucial role of agricultural innovation. Conservation Practices in Hawaii Monsanto has technology and manufacturing operations on three islands in the state of Hawaii. Monsanto’s seed passes through Hawaii multiple times in its breeding, biotechnology trait development, trait integration, pre-foundation and foundation seed production units during development to take advantage of the favorable climate to grow multiple generations of corn and soybeans each year. At all locations, environmental stewardship is a key component of Monsanto’s freedom to operate. Water and land are limited and precious commodities in Hawaii, and the Monsanto Hawaii team has taken the lead to preserve them. On all islands and in all operations, crops are produced using drip 60% irrigation. Not only does this irrigation method preserve water by delivering it directly into the plant root zone, it reduces the amount of fertilizer needed to produce the crop, because fertilizer is delivered directly to the root zone in small increments, as opposed to one, larger application made at the beginning of the growing season. As a result, the nutrients can be utilized more completely by the crop. Corn, for example, can be produced using up to 60% less nitrogen with this method. The Biotechnology Trait Conversion Center on Maui utilizes R1 water from the municipal waste system to produce corn less nitrogen seed. R1 water is defined by the County of Maui as “tertiary using drip irrigation method treated recycled water that can be used without restrictions.” Through collaboration with the County of Maui, Monsanto purchases and uses more than 185,000 gallons of R1 water 2011 Corporate Social Responsibility and Sustainability Report 55 BUSINESS PROFILE 3 S tak eho l d er E n g ag e m e n t 11 T e c h n o lo g y a n d busi n ess G OV E R N A NC E 25 commitment to sustainable agriculture 38 P R O Du c i n g m ore 40 irrigation improvements, cont. conser v ing m ore 47 i m provi n g l ives 62 GRI Index 89 per day. This collaboration benefits both Monsanto, by having received a competitive grant in the amount of US$84,000 a dedicated, secure water source, and the community from the Oahu Resource Conservation and Development from not having to further process the water prior to Council. The grant was jointly funded by the U.S. EPA and the environmental release. Hawaii State Department of Health, and was used to help fund a small part of the US$500,0000 cost of the project. Monsanto recently purchased a 2,289 acre (926 hectare) The Kunia farm conservation plan became the centerpiece of farm on the island of Oahu in Kunia. The farm is a multifuncthe Honouliuli Watershed Restoration project and is a great tional site hosting all aspects of Monsanto’s pipeline year recognition of Monsanto’s dedication to stewardship. ‘round. The farm’s watershed drains directly into Pearl Harbor, and the erosion of the red volcanic soil present in the area is Monsanto held a “field day” during the summer of 2011, a very visible event. Therefore, Monsanto devoted three years which was open to all growers in Oahu. During the day, growers to developing and installing a conservation plan that includes were able to observe demonstrations in berming, terracing, water terraces, catchments and greenways to divert water catch basin construction, cover cropping and grass waterway and capture sediment before it leaves the farm. What makes development to further their own stewardship techniques this project unique is that in April 2011, Monsanto Kunia and knowledge. Fontanelle’s Aqua View Initiative ® “Aqua View was the best piece of equipment on my farm last year... Being involved in this project has opened my eyes so much to water usage in the field and moisture management in the soil. It is the best return on investment of anything I have used on my farm,” said a grower and Aqua View participant from Nebraska. The Fontanelle’s Aqua View initiative, introduced four years 8,419,097,700 ago, is a systems approach comprised of water management tools, quality seed genetics, educational programs and support services designed to help growers in irrigated areas maximize the value of their seeds and traits. Fontanelle Hybrids, a Monsanto regional seed brand, has a large customer base in Nebraska, Colorado, Kansas, Oklahoma and Texas, where 50 Gallons of water Saved percent of the area already has water pumping restrictions from local resource districts or limited rainfall. With the installation of moisture probes, growers respond to water needs on a customized basis and only water when needed, saving costs associated with unnecessary watering. Based on 2010 results from 475 Aqua View system locations, the average Fontanelle grower saved three rounds of watering per field. Extrapolating those numbers to the 795 Aqua View systems in place in 2011, growers saved 8,419,097,700 gallons of water. 2011 Corporate Social Responsibility and Sustainability Report 56 BUSINESS PROFILE 3 S tak eho l d er E n g ag e m e n t 11 T e c h n o lo g y a n d busi n ess G OV E R N A NC E 25 commitment to sustainable agriculture 38 P R O Du c i n g m ore 40 conser v ing m ore 47 i m provi n g l ives 62 Energy efficiency & Renewables GRI Index 89 Energy, GRI EN5–6 GRI PR1 UN7, 8 especially in the form of fuel, is an essential input for all farmers, and it has become an issue for everyone involved in agriculture, as volatile fluctuations in oil prices continue and global concerns over fossil fuel emissions intensify. 4.0 3.5 3.0 2.5 New crop technologies and farming systems by Monsanto and others have helped growers achieve dramatic increases Cumulative 2.0 Fuel Savings From Use of Conservation Tillage in the U.S. 1996–2007 in the energy efficiency of farming and in the production of 1.5 renewable fuels from U.S. crops such as corn and soybeans. 1.0 4.0 The higher energy efficiencies enabled by Monsanto prod0.5 3.5 ucts and systems have come from advances in three areas: 0 3.0 Billions of Gallons breeding, biotechnology, and agronomics/chemistry. 96 97 98 99 00 01 02 03 04 05 06 07 2.5 These higher efficiencies have meant higher yields on a 2.0 generally constant cropland area, which has resulted in 1.5 dramatic increases in the total U.S. supply of both corn and 1.0 soybeans, allowing for more renewable fuel production from 0.5 these two grain feedstocks. 0 Among the novel cropping systems introduced by Monsanto, 96 97 98 99 00 01 02 03 04 05 06 07 the greatest improvements in farmer energy efficiencies Sources: Conservation Technology Information Center (CTIC) and Field to Market have likely come from Roundup Ready cropping systems. The introduction of Roundup Ready crops has enabled much greater adoption of conservation tillage, which has eliminated Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Emissions Avoided one or more tillage operations each season—resulting in both Via U.S. Corn Ethanol Production 1980–2011 large fuel savings (see chart on right) and other environmental benefits—like improved soil and water quality. 200 Increasing U.S. crop yields, especially those in corn, have helped farmers participate directly in the development of a 150 significant U.S.-based renewable fuel industry, which has MMT CO 2e dramatically reduced oil imports and avoided vast amounts of 100 cumulative fossil fuel emissions (see chart on right). As the world enters a more uncertain future over global energy 50 200 supplies and prices, it will become increasingly important for farmers everywhere to have full access to new products and 0 cropping systems—which now have a proven track record for 150 improving energy efficiency and enabling greater production 1980 1985 1990 1995 2000 2005 2010 2015 of renewable fuels. Sources: The Renewable Fuels Association (RFA) and the Greenhouse Gases, Regulated 100 Emissions, and Energy Use in Transportation (Greet) model 50 2011 Corporate Social Responsibility and Sustainability Report 57 BUSINESS PROFILE 3 S tak eho l d er E n g ag e m e n t 11 T e c h n o lo g y a n d busi n ess G OV E R N A NC E 25 commitment to sustainable agriculture 38 P R O Du c i n g m ore 40 conser v ing m ore 47 i m provi n g l ives 62 environmental performance GRI Index 89 GRI EN3, 6, 8, 16 UN7, 8 We strive to continuously improve in all aspects of our business including our operational performance and environmental reporting. Because of this commitment and the growth in our seeds & traits business, we have expanded our environmental reporting this year to include some data from our seeds operations (see charts below). We will continue to provide the same eco-efficiency metrics for our crop protection business as we’ve done in past years (see graphs on the following pages). We measure the environmental footprint of our operations recorded both by total amounts and by environmental influence through recognized reporting procedures. The eco-efficiency per unit of output. Ozone-depleting substances are not graphed, reporting method used was developed in cooperation with because the total is too small to be statistically significant. the World Business Council for Sustainable Development. This system permits comparisons of new data to the baseline Note that for our Seeds & Traits business, data was not gathered from all locations. It was gathered from a number of representative sites, and then extrapolated for a global estimated total using data from calendar year 2000 (for crop protection only). Product appropriate scalars for similar operations (global throughputs, research acres, etc.). We are working data (for example, energy use and material consumption) are to report additional data in the coming years. GRI EN3 2011 Direct Energy Consumption (GJ) GRI EN16 2011 Direct & Indirect GHG Emissions (mt) CROP SEEDS CROP SEEDS DIRECT SOURCES P R OT E C T I O N & TR AITS SOURCE P R OT E C T I O N & T R AI T S Natural Gas 4,256,481 3,034,737 Direct GHG Emissions (CO2 -eq) 1,195,928 287,362 Propane * 371,347 Indirect GHG Emissions (CO2 -eq) 827,066 316,965 Oil (including Diesel) 65,992 96,874 Coal 1,377,151 0 SUBTOTALS 2,022,993 604,327 Waste Fuel 3,790,255 0 Renewable Energy 118,274 1,174,171 TOTAL GHG EMISSIONS (CO2 -EQ) 2,627,320 (biomass: seeds/cobs/briquettes) INDIRECT SOURCES Electricity 6,654,629 2,044,252 UNITS and Substances Key Imported Steam 121,303 0 GJ = gigajoules O2 = oxygen SUBTOTALS 16,384,085 6,721,381 m3 = cubic meters PO 4 = phosphate mt = metric tons SO 2 = sulfur dioxide TOTAL ENERGY CONSUMPTION 23,105,465 CO 2 = carbon dioxide * Included in natural gas number 2011 Corporate Social Responsibility and Sustainability Report 58 BUSINESS PROFILE 3 S tak eho l d er E n g ag e m e n t 11 T e c h n o lo g y a n d busi n ess G OV E R N A NC E 25 commitment to sustainable agriculture 38 P R O Du c i n g m ore 40 Environmental Performance, cont. conser v ing m ore 47 i m provi n g l ives 62 GRI Index 89 GRI EN3 Energy Consumption GRI EN21 Chemical Oxygen Demand (COD) Energy (GJ) / Product Output (mt) O2 -eq (mt) / Product Output (mt) | COD to Surface Water Yield Progress 2011 16,384,085 / 450,435 36.4 36.4 2011 in 450,435 U.S. (percent) 2,579 /Crops, Major 0.0057 36. 2010 17,004,750 / 465,946 36.5 36.5 2010 2,522 / 465,946 0.0054 36. 2009 13,750,721 / 351,852 39.1 39.1 2009 2,410 / 351,852 GOAL 0.0068 3 100 2000 19,886,890 / 348,656 57.0 2000 57.0 1,495 / 348,656 0.0043 90 MORE EFFICIENT LESS EFFICIENT 80MORE EFFICIENT LESS EFFICIENT 70 60 50 GRI EN16 Direct Greenhouse Gas Emissions GRI EN21 40 Eutrophication CO2 -eq (mt) / Product Output (mt) PO4-eq 30(mt) / Product Output (mt) | Phosphates to Surface Water Yield 20 10 Progress 2011 1,195,928 / 450,435 2.66 36.4 2011 in0 Major Crops, 1,035/U.S. (percent) 450,435 0.0023 36. 2000 2005 2011 2030 20 0 30 2010 1,226,577 / 465,946 2.63 36.5 2010 750 / 465,946 0.0016 36. 2009 1,160,105 / 351,852 3.30 39.1 2009 822 / 351,852 GOAL 0.0023 100 corn soybeans cotton 2000 1,277,270 /348,656 3.66 2000 57.0 1,387 / 348,656 0.0040 90 Ad fue pon tatum iam in ditus, vid consi pra mus consua derferes omnonsula rendi fuid MORE EFFICIENT LESS EFFICIENT 80MORE comnesus omniam te patiliq uitus, cotis? EFFICIENT Urniuri buniquosLESS consupi onveritella vius EFFICIENT 70 60 50 GRI EN16 Indirect Greenhouse Gas Emissions GRI EN22 40 Waste Shipped Offsite CO2 -eq (mt) / Product Output (mt) Waste30(mt) / Product Output (mt) Yield 20 10 Progress 2011 827,066 / 450,435 1.84 36.4 2011 in Major18,879 /Crops,450,435U.S. (percent) 0.042 36. 0 2010 1.82 36.5 2010 2000 2005 2011 2030 20 0 30 0.040 36. 849,641 / 465,946 18,612 / 465,946 2009 661,934 / 351,852 1.88 39.1 2009 26,587 / 351,852 GOAL 0.076 100 corn soybeans cotton 2000 868,848 / 348,656 2.49 2000 57.0 23,926 / 348,656 0.069 90 Ad fue pon tatum iam in ditus, vid consi pra mus consua derferes omnonsula rendi fuid MORE EFFICIENT LESS EFFICIENT 80MORE comnesus omniam te patiliq uitus, cotis? Urniuri buniquosLESS EFFICIENT consupi onveritella vius EFFICIENT 70 60 50 UNITS and Substances Key 40 30 GJ = gigajoules mt = metric tons O2 = 20oxygen SO 2 = sulfur dioxide 10 m3 = cubic meters CO 2 = carbon dioxide PO 4 = phosphate 0 2000 2005 2011 2030 20 0 30 2011 Corporate Social Responsibility and Sustainability Report 59 corn soybeans cotton Ad fue pon tatum iam in ditus, vid consi pra mus consua derferes omnonsula rendi fuid BUSINESS PROFILE 3 S tak eho l d er E n g ag e m e n t 11 T e c h n o lo g y a n d busi n ess G OV E R N A NC E 25 commitment to sustainable agriculture 38 P R O Du c i n g m ore 40 Environmental Performance, cont. conser v ing m ore 47 i m provi n g l ives 62 GRI Index 89 GRI EN20 Acidification Emissions GRI EN20 Photochemical Oxidant Creation SO2 -eq (mt) / Product Output (mt) Volatile Organic Compounds (mt) / Product Output (mt) Yield Progress 2011 4,020 / 450,435 0.009 36.4 2011 in Major Crops, 120 U.S. / 450,435 (percent) 0.00027 36. 2010 4,424 / 465,946 0.009 36.5 2010 119 / 465,946 0.00026 36. 2009 3,534 / 351,852 0.010 39.1 2009 106 / 351,852 GOAL 0.00030 3 100 2000 17,957/348,656 0.052 2000 57.0 149 / 348,656 0.00043 90 MORE EFFICIENT LESS EFFICIENT 80MORE EFFICIENT LESS EFFICIENT 70 60 50 GRI EN8 Fresh Water Consumption* GRI EN140 Raw Material Consumption Water (m ) / Product Output (mt) 3 30 (mt) / Product Output (mt) Materials Yield 20 10 Progress 36.4 2011 in0 Major Crops, U.S. (percent) 6.2 2011 19,928,073 / 450,435 44.2 2,781,938 / 450,435 36. 2000 2005 2011 2030 20 06.0 30 2010 20,356,223 / 465,946 43.7 36.5 2010 2,772,827 / 465,946 36. 2009 18,625,760 / 351,852 52.9 39.1 2009 2,245,414 / 351,852 GOAL 6.4 100 corn soybeans cotton 7.4 2000 23,157,195 / 348,656 66.4 2000 57.0 2,572,828 / 348,656 90 Ad fue pon tatum iam in ditus, vid consi pra mus consua derferes omnonsula rendi fuid MORE EFFICIENT LESS EFFICIENT 80MORE comnesus omniam te patiliq uitus, cotis? EFFICIENT Urniuri buniquosLESS consupi onveritella vius EFFICIENT 70 60 * 2011 Water Consumption 50 (ML = 1,000 m )3 UNITS 40 and Substances Key Surface Water 4,249 ML 30 GJ 20= gigajoules CO 2 = carbon dioxide Ground Water 14,447 ML 10 m3 = cubic meters O2 = oxygen 0 Municipal Water 1,232 ML ML = megaliter2000 2005 PO 4 phosphate20 =2011 2030 0 30 TOTAL WATER 19,928 ML mt = metric tons SO 2 = sulfur dioxide corn soybeans cotton Ad fue pon tatum iam in ditus, vid consi pra mus consua derferes omnonsula rendi fuid comnesus omniam te patiliq uitus, cotis? Urniuri buniquos consupi onveritella vius 2011 Corporate Social Responsibility and Sustainability Report 60 BUSINESS PROFILE 3 S tak eho l d er E n g ag e m e n t 11 T e c h n o lo g y a n d busi n ess G OV E R N A NC E 25 commitment to sustainable agriculture 38 P R O Du c i n g m ore 40 conser v ing m ore 47 i m provi n g l ives 62 spills and fines GRI Index 89 Accidental GRI EN23 & Episodic Spills GRI EN28 Fines The following accidental, episodic spills and releases from In 2011, Monsanto paid US$1,400,642 to the United States Monsanto facilities were significant enough to be reported for alleged violations of the Clean Water Act (CWA) at the to one or more governmental agencies. In cases of material South Rasmussen Mine near Soda Springs, Idaho. There spilled to the ground, the spilled material was promptly and were no non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with appropriately cleaned up. In all cases, root causes of the environmental laws and regulations. In reporting for GRI metric releases were identified and corrected, and there was no EN28, Monsanto is informed by the United States Security adverse impact to human health or the environment. and Exchange Commission guidance that environmental • On July 7, 2011, 3,597 pounds of natural gas were released proceedings to which a governmental authority is a party or into the atmosphere at the Luling, Louisiana facility. known to be contemplated by governmental authorities and involving monetary sanctions greater than US$100,000 • On October 16, 2011, 112 pounds of methyl chloride were be reported to the public. released into the atmosphere at the Luling, Louisiana facility. • On October 28, 2011, 55 gallons of hydraulic fluid were released onto the ground at the Soda Springs, Idaho facility. • On October 28, 2011, 100 gallons of hydraulic fluid were released onto the ground at the Soda Springs, Idaho facility. 2011 Corporate Social Responsibility and Sustainability Report 61 BUSINESS PROFILE 3 S tak eho l d er E n g ag e m e n t 11 T e c h n o lo g y a n d busi n ess G OV E R N A NC E 25 commitment to sustainable agriculture 38 P R O Du c i n g m ore 40 c o n servi n g m ore 47 i m prov ing li v es 62 GRI Index 89 Improving Lives Improving food production, security and affordability improves the welfare of the world’s population and enables development of the world’s economy. Monsanto believes farmers are at the heart of this. Their decisions about which crops to grow, which inputs to use and which practices to employ affect how bountiful harvests will be. 2011 Corporate Social Responsibility and Sustainability Report 62 BUSINESS PROFILE 3 S tak eho l d er E n g ag e m e n t 11 T e c h n o lo g y a n d busi n ess G OV E R N A NC E 25 commitment to sustainable agriculture 38 P R O Du c i n g m ore 40 c o n servi n g m ore 47 i m prov ing li v es 62 improving lives GRI Index 89 GRI EC9 Many more people are now taking stock of the world’s ability to meet growing food demand while conserving key resources for future generations. While these issues might be new to some of us, farmers have been aware of these issues for generations. They have stayed on the land, making it more productive, protecting this valuable resource base and passing it along to the next generation. While we all have a stake in the future of agriculture, farmers’ livelihoods are rooted in the success of their farms. As farms become more efficient, prospects improve to increase farmers’ household income levels. When incomes are improved in farming, rural communities where farming is prominent achieve higher rates of job creation and economic expansion. Monsanto believes that agriculture can only be sustainable if the livelihoods of farmers and those who depend on them keep 2.1 improving. We seek to aid in the improvement of the lives of all farmers we are privileged to serve, however, we have set a specific target of achieving a measurable improvement in at least five million people’s lives in resource-poor farm families between 2008–2020. Based on global meta-analysis data compiled by ISAAA and PG MILLION Economics, 2.1 million resource-poor farmers adopted biotech resource-poor farmers crops for the first time in the 2008–2010 period. These farmers achieved US$3 billion in additional net income as a result of Adopted biotech crops this technology adoption. Based on farm household population for the first time (2008–2010) levels in the locations where these technology adoptions 3 37 occurred, six million to 12 million resource-poor farm family $ members shared in these benefits. Additionally, the communities where these economic gains were achieved may have realized TO three to seven times the level of economic benefits across rural communities.1 Measuring the total economic impact of technology adoption Billion TIMEs for farmers and rural communities is a challenging but U.S. DOLLARS in additional The level of economic important objective for our assessments in the future. net income as a result benefits across rural Monsanto supports and will continue to support efforts to of this technology communities 1 objectively assess this area of our sustainable agriculture goals and provide more detailed findings in future reports. 1  ubramanian, A. and M. Qain (2009). “Village-Wide Effects of Agricultural Biotechnology: The Case of Bt Cotton in India.” S 2011 Corporate Social Responsibility and Sustainability Report 63 World Development 37 (1): 256-267. BUSINESS PROFILE 3 S tak eho l d er E n g ag e m e n t 11 T e c h n o lo g y a n d busi n ess G OV E R N A NC E 25 commitment to sustainable agriculture 38 P R O Du c i n g m ore 40 Continued Progress in Human Rights c o n servi n g m ore 47 i m prov ing li v es 62 Policy Implementation GRI Index 89 Producing GRI HR1–3, 6–8, 10 GRI LA10 UN1 seeds in more than 40 countries gives us the opportunity to have a positive impact on the lives of a significant number of agricultural workers. In order to guide our actions, Monsanto adopted our Human Rights Policy in 2006, and began a program to improve the lives of workers in our seed production supply chain, whether they are at our owned facilities or are working for a third party. The Policy includes commitments on child labor, forced labor, compensation, working hours, harassment and violence, discrimination, freedom of association, occupational safety and Monsanto Human Rights legal compliance. We operate on a continuous improvement Business Partners approach in working with our business partners to address by Geographic Area, 2011 the challenges posed by performing manual agricultural work, especially in developing economies. Our priorities are guided by a global risk assessment, which covers each part of the Policy in every country where we 25,000 grow seeds and is updated every three years. In 2011, our 21,155 scheduled update included adding new countries, reflecting changes in our business practices since 2008 and recent 20,000 country developments. After reviewing on a country-bycountry basis the tendency for human rights risks to exist, 16,243 we overlaid country-specific operational information to 15,000 decide where the greatest risks reside. The result is a list of high risk countries where we focus and conduct more detailed assessments of our operations and our supply 10,000 chain. When we talk about our supply chain, we often use the term “business partner.” Generally speaking, a human rights business partner is someone who primarily provides 5,000 manual labor in the production of seed for Monsanto. The chart at right shows the breakdown of business partners by 1,206 592 382 329 geographic area in 2011. 0 Asia India Europe/ Latin North Africa Our specific Policy commitments and their implementation Pacific Middle America America merit additional detailed discussion. East India represents the biggest risk area for child labor in our Monsanto Human Rights Champions Data operations and supply chain. Since 2005, we have been working to eliminate child labor in our hybrid cottonseed 2011 Corporate Social Responsibility and Sustainability Report 64 BUSINESS PROFILE 3 S tak eho l d er E n g ag e m e n t 11 T e c h n o lo g y a n d busi n ess G OV E R N A NC E 25 commitment to sustainable agriculture 38 P R O Du c i n g m ore 40 continued Progress in Human Rights c o n servi n g m ore 47 Policy Implementation, cont. i m prov ing li v es 62 GRI Index 89 production there. Three years ago, we also began a program organization was included in this training and achieved a 99 to remove child laborers from our business partners’ vegetable percent completion rate, for a total of 60 hours. seed fields. More information on these programs in India and HR4 UN6 Employees can voice a concern confidentially or their progress can be found on page 67, “Efforts to Eliminate Child Labor in our Business Partners’ Fields in India.” anonymously with the Monsanto Business Conduct Office and can use a variety of methods to do so, including telephonically, Child labor risks also exist in other countries and Monsanto through a toll-free dedicated telephone system, company email, works to mitigate the risk and remediate occurrences when or the internet. In 2011, two discrimination allegations were discovered. In 2011, our breeding site in San Juan de Abajo, filed with Business Conduct. The allegations were investigated Mexico, received the distinctive honor of being recognized by an independent review team chaired by our Business as an agricultural company free of child workers by the Conduct Office and resolved. Secretaria del Trabajo y Previsión Social (STPS) department of the Mexican government. This is the first of our 11 sites in Throughout our seed supply chain, we have adopted several Mexico to receive this distinctive honor and the first company practices designed to help our business partners understand in Nayarit State. and act in accordance with our Policy. In our direct contracts with them, we include contract language regarding human UN4 With regard to forced labor, there are some countries rights. UN2 By signing the contract, they indicate they have in Africa in which the widely used practice of ‘tenancy read and understood the Policy and agree to act in compliagreements’ can result in a forced labor situation for ance with applicable labor laws. HR1 In 2011, more than migrant workers. HR7 In those countries, we are working 17,800 contracts included this clause or 96 percent of direct with our business partner growers to make sure their workers seed grower contracts. (Many of our growers contract with are free to leave when they wish and will be compensated for “Seed Coordinators,” who then contract directly with us.) their work in total, regardless of when they elect to return to HR2 A second practice we use with our growers is to assess their homes. HR5 UN3 For the countries where employees’ their compliance via a 22-question screening assessment freedom of association is at risk, we support our employees’ which we call our Red Flag Assessment. We have a rotating independent decisions and included training on the rights schedule to assess a portion of our business partner growers of employees to associate and bargain collectively in our in countries according to the risk level identified for the global training. For example, in 2011 in Peru, we successfully country. In 2011, we conducted 37,880 assessments, the negotiated with the union that was recently formed by our majority of which were in India and Africa. The company seasonal workers. We enjoy good labor relations with all process requires immediate action to investigate an our employee representatives. affirmative Red Flag finding and remediate as necessary. See Business Partner graphs on the following page. HR3 Our ability to identify and remediate issues, and to act in compliance with our Policy globally, is dependent upon the Our work around the world is spearheaded by our Human understanding and commitment of every employee to uphold Rights Champions Network. (See sidebar on the following our values and commitments. To enhance this understanding, page for information on the conference we held this year.) we have provided human rights computer-based employee The Champions have the responsibility to heighten awareness training modules at 18 month intervals. These training modules of human rights issues, and work to resolve them in their review sections of the Policy in a story format, and conclude geography. They receive special training to enable them with a quiz. Every full-time employee is required to take this to identify gaps in auditing and compliance with our Policy training, and pass the quiz with a score of 100 percent. In 2011, and risks of non-compliance, and they work within the we launched our third training module since the Policy was organization to remediate issues as expeditiously as possible. adopted, and 98.8 percent of employees completed it. This They also serve as contacts in the regions for anyone with represented 9,562 hours of training. HR8 Our global security a question or concern about human rights. 2011 Corporate Social Responsibility and Sustainability Report 65 BUSINESS PROFILE 3 S tak eho l d er E n g ag e m e n t 11 T e c h n o lo g y a n d busi n ess G OV E R N A NC E 25 commitment to sustainable agriculture 38 P R O Du c i n g m ore 40 continued Progress in Human Rights c o n servi n g m ore 47 Policy Implementation, cont. i m prov ing li v es 62 GRI Index 89 Percentage of Business Partner Signatories Human Rights Champions to Labor Law Contract Clauses, by Region Conference 100 In addition to increasing visibility and awareness of human rights by Monsanto employees and 95 business partners, Human Rights Champions identify opportunities and lead process 90 improvements. This includes conducting field audits, coordinating initiatives, and planning and implementing corrective actions to ensure the 85 appropriate treatment and respect of workers. 80 Asia India Europe/ Latin North Africa In 2011, the Human Rights Champions met in St. Louis to Pacific Middle America America East share ideas and best practices. During the conference, the Monsanto Human Rights Champions Data team discussed the importance of dialogue and the ability to handle confrontations. Participants practiced high impact presentations and auditing techniques. They gained exposure and insight into a number of headquarters activities, including how the Monsanto Fund operates, social responsibility concerns our stockholders have expressed, the importance of Percentage of Business Partners our Business Conduct Office and Foreign Corrupt Practices Act Receiving Training/Manual (FCPA) compliance efforts, and how their human rights efforts fit with our Sustainable Agriculture vision of improving lives. Speakers from outside of Monsanto were also invited to 100 share their perspectives. Faris Natour, Director, Human Rights at Business for Social Responsibility (BSR), discussed 80 the Guiding Principles for Business and Human Rights which were endorsed by the UN Human Rights Council, 60 and the implications for businesses as a result of this work. Commenting on his experience at the conference, Faris 40 said, “At the 2011 Human Rights Champions conference I met passionate leaders from around the world who showed 20 a sense of ownership and great pride in Monsanto’s efforts to address human rights challenges in the supply 0 chain. Monsanto’s system of local champions is a very Asia India Europe/ Latin North Africa effective way to integrate human rights throughout the Pacific Middle America America company, and Monsanto has a great opportunity to apply this East approach to human rights issues beyond the supply chain.” Monsanto Human Rights Champions Data 2011 Corporate Social Responsibility and Sustainability Report 66 BUSINESS PROFILE 3 S tak eho l d er E n g ag e m e n t 11 T e c h n o lo g y a n d busi n ess G OV E R N A NC E 25 commitment to sustainable agriculture 38 P R O Du c i n g m ore 40 continued Progress in Human Rights c o n servi n g m ore 47 Policy Implementation, cont. i m prov ing li v es 62 GRI Index 89 Efforts GRI HR4, 6 UN5 to Eliminate Child Labor in Our Business Partners’ Fields in India Child labor in India is a significant challenge in rural areas in agriculture. Our business model for growing seeds in India involves contracting with individual small growers, either directly or through an agent known as a Seed Coordinator. In 2005, with the acquisition of Emergent Genetics, we became aware that children were often found working in hybrid cottonseed production. We immediately moved to develop an education and monitoring program for our Seed Coordinators and farmers. The education process has many facets which have evolved over the years. The main tool currently in use is our Business Partner Guidebook, available in five commonly spoken languages of the farmers in our production areas in India. Our contracts with growers and Seed Coordinators also contain language reinforcing Monsanto’s position that child labor is not an acceptable practice. We continue to monitor our business partners’ fields in cotton, an effort overseen by our Child Care Program Steering Committee, which consists of NGO representatives and other interested parties. The number of business partners in cottonseed production has grown dramatically over the years, from approximately 1,000 in 2005, to approximately 21,000 in the 2011 season. Reduction in Child Labor Reduction in Child Labor In Business Partner Cottonseed In Business Partner Vegetable Seed Production Since 2005 Production Since 2009 12.0% 1.0% 10.0% 0.8% Percent of Total Laborers Found Percent of Total Laborers Found 10.0% 0.8% 8.0% 0.6% 6.0% That Were Children That Were Children 4.9% 0.4% 0.3% 4.0% 0.2% 2.0% 0.1% 0.5% 0.2% 0.2% 0.2% 0.3% 0.0% 0.0% 05 06 07 08 09 10 11 09 10 11 Monsanto Internal Monitoring Programs Data Monsanto Internal Monitoring Programs Data 2011 Corporate Social Responsibility and Sustainability Report 67 BUSINESS PROFILE 3 S tak eho l d er E n g ag e m e n t 11 T e c h n o lo g y a n d busi n ess G OV E R N A NC E 25 commitment to sustainable agriculture 38 P R O Du c i n g m ore 40 continued Progress in Human Rights c o n servi n g m ore 47 Policy Implementation, cont. i m prov ing li v es 62 GRI Index 89 In the past year alone, we added 9,000 business partners. Our efforts appear to have been quite successful, as when We are pleased that child labor in our fields has been monitoring began, we found less than 1 percent child labor. reduced to well under one-half of one percent of the labor Our production and quality teams, who make frequent field visits force. We believe the dramatic increase in the number of and maintain the labor monitoring responsibility themselves, growers is the reason for the small increase we have seen continue to emphasize the importance of only employing adult in child labor percentage in the 2011 season. labor and sending children to school. This emphasis, along with Our vegetable production consists of far fewer growers than other practices unique to our vegetable seed production model, the cotton business. We have about 2,000 growers in vegetahave helped eliminate child labor in our business partners’ vegebles, many of whom have grown seeds for Monsanto for five table fields. These practices include offering a second crop in a years or more. Prior to the inception of our formal monitoring season to growers who use only adult labor and partnering with program in 2009, we began our efforts to advise and NGOs in the vegetable seed production areas to enhance the educate farmers about our Policy and asked them to comply. school experience for children, in order to increase interest on the part of both children and their parents in children’s education. Brazil Partners to Provide Cancer Prevention for Impoverished Women Every GRI LA8 GRI S01 GRI EC8 UN1 year, approximately 10,000 Brazilian women die from breast cancer and 4,000 succumb to uterine cervical cancer. Eighty-five percent of those deaths may have been avoided with early detection. In Camaçari, an area in Brazil with more than 186,000 people, poverty contributes to poor health conditions. Monsanto’s Ana Viana led an effort to help Camaçari’s manufacturing location find a way to help these impoverished women. “Statistics from the Brazilian Ministry of Health state that “The most difficult aspect of this project was accessing the women over 40 are more likely to develop breast and cervical places where these women live because no public transportacancer,” Ana Viana, Monsanto Brazil’s Community Affairs tion reaches those areas,” Viana said. “It was also difficult analyst, said. “The Women’s Health project’s objective is to gaining their confidence to educate them about prevention.” prevent cancer through educational guidance and clinical In the areas the program reaches, many elderly women have diagnosis for low-income women living in Camaçari City, which never seen a gynecologist. After diagnosing existing problems, has an incidence of disease 10 times higher than [Brazil’s] the women are guided by the Secretary of Health to the appronational average.” priate treatment in public hospitals. A group of Monsanto employees in Brazil partnered with Brazil’s “It’s rewarding to know that Monsanto is making a difference Secretary of Health to set up Women’s Health. The program for those women and their families by improving their quality of targets women over the age of 40 who haven’t had preventative life,” Viana said. “This is an awesome way for Monsanto to give or related examinations for more than a year. The Secretary back to the community.” of Health helped the team identify communities of women in The team hopes to maintain and expand the program in need with no access to the public health system. Since the the future to cover younger women for early detection of program began in 2006, it has provided clinical examinations for breast, uterine and cervical cancer, and sexually transmitted 4,000 women and provided H1N1 vaccinations to 200 women. diseases. They also hope the results of Women’s Health will encourage Brazil’s Secretary of Health to develop additional projects to increase disease prevention. 2011 Corporate Social Responsibility and Sustainability Report 68 BUSINESS PROFILE 3 S tak eho l d er E n g ag e m e n t 11 T e c h n o lo g y a n d busi n ess G OV E R N A NC E 25 commitment to sustainable agriculture 38 P R O Du c i n g m ore 40 c o n servi n g m ore 47 i m prov ing li v es 62 Diversity networks at Monsanto GRI Index 89 At UN6 Monsanto, diversity is critical to the success of our global business. To meet the needs of global farmers, we must have a global point of view. A farmer’s needs in South Africa, for example, are very different from a farmer’s needs in Brazil. They face very different agricultural challenges. That is why we have employees around the globe who live and work in or near the communities where our customers farm. In fact, we have more than 500 global locations for our more than 20,000 employees. Our people are the link between the workplace and the marketplace…and we need a workplace representative of all cultures to create innovative solutions for our customers. To foster an environment of inclusiveness and collaboration, and make improvements so we can attract and retain the we have the following formal internal efforts in place: best talent and provide an inclusive work environment limited only by our employees’ aspirations. • Our nine employee-led diversity networks provide networking and learning opportunities for people with diverse backgrounds. Senior leaders act as liaisons for each of these groups to provide leadership support Diversity Networks: Creating a Great as needed, as well as Executive Team members who serve as sponsors. Place to Work for All • At our most senior level, we formed our Diversity Council The vision for our diversity networks is to create and sustain in 2007 to advance the Monsanto culture around inclusion an inclusive environment in which all network members may and develop diversity champions at every level of the thrive and reach their potential. The mission of our diversity organization. This Council has been an effective vehicle to networks is to further members’ professional development identify opportunities and areas for improvement throughout to maximize their individual contributions to corporate goals our global business units. The Council is led by our Strategy / and objectives. Monsanto diversity networks sponsor efforts Operations Lead, linking the importance of diversity to driving that support career development, networking, recruitment, innovation and delivering strategic business results. promotion of cultural awareness and the creation of an inclusive environment. All the diversity networking groups have • We must recruit, develop and retain employees to remain an Executive Team member as a sponsor and high levels of on the cutting edge of agricultural innovation. Executive and employee participation. management compensation is tied directly to our diversity efforts, and we are building our succession slates with diverse Any employee can join any diversity network. Mark Sutherland, internal and external talent pipelines. We continue to learn for example, is a Caucasian Scotsman and member of 2011 Corporate Social Responsibility and Sustainability Report 69 BUSINESS PROFILE 3 S tak eho l d er E n g ag e m e n t 11 T e c h n o lo g y a n d busi n ess G OV E R N A NC E 25 commitment to sustainable agriculture 38 P R O Du c i n g m ore 40 Diversity networks at Monsanto, cont. c o n servi n g m ore 47 i m prov ing li v es 62 GRI Index 89 Monsanto Asian Connection (MAC), as well as the editor of the group’s newsletter. “Throughout my career I have always sought to learn from people who have different experiences and knowledge. Groups like MAC help me expand my knowledge base, understand other cultures better and meet some great people along the way.” The Monsanto Asian Connection was launched in 2003 as a diversity network focused on both developing and leveraging Asian American employee cultures within Monsanto. Today the MAC is comprised of over 500 members representing dozens of different cultures and backgrounds. It has also added several chapters outside of the head­quarters in St. Louis, including Louisiana, Hawaii, Mississippi and California. M  AC members have regular opportunities to network directly with Executive Team members, including Chairman, President and CEO Hugh Grant and Executive Vice President and Chief Technology Officer Robb Fraley (the MAC executive team sponsor). “It definitely provides an opportunity for employees to network and support Monsanto business,” said Heping Yang, Research Scientist. Encompass is a resource group for the company’s gay, lesbian, bisexual and transgendered (GLBT) employees. The network was begun by Ashley Alvarado, an Administrative Assistant. “I started working here about three years ago and realized that there wasn’t [a network of this kind] so I wrote a proposal,” said Alvarado. “As soon as I stepped forward, all of the resources were there,” said Alvarado. “It’s been great.” Alvarado sees a specific need for the GLBT network. “It’s a very competitive market and because we live in Missouri, it’s not the most inclusive place for GLBT employees,” she said. “A lot of positions that we hire for are very specialized and we have to make ourselves as desirable as possible, and the networking groups do that.” She also believes the networks are helpful for providing feedback to policymakers and decision makers. Finally, the sense of community is important to her. “In just a short time, I’ve already started talking with and meeting with people that I normally would probably never have been in contact with and it’s just because of the group.” 2011 Corporate Social Responsibility and Sustainability Report 70 BUSINESS PROFILE 3 S tak eho l d er E n g ag e m e n t 11 T e c h n o lo g y a n d busi n ess G OV E R N A NC E 25 commitment to sustainable agriculture 38 P R O Du c i n g m ore 40 Diversity networks at Monsanto, cont. c o n servi n g m ore 47 i m prov ing li v es 62 GRI Index 89 African Americans in Monsanto (AAIM) The mission of The Family Network According to Working Mother Magazine, the AAIM network is to continuously develop African American among employees who are parents, those who are highly employees in support of Monsanto’s goals and objectives engaged with their families receive stronger performance and create a great place to work. It also focuses on creating reviews than those who always put work first. “The Family and sustaining an inclusive environment that enables African Network enhances our efforts to create an environment where Americans to be successful while adding value to our company contributions at work are balanced with the employee’s fulfilland communities. ment of personal and family responsibilities,” said Steve Mizell, Executive Vice President, Human Resources. Monsanto Latin Network The annual meeting of the Monsanto Latin Network became a global affair when the group VANGUARD (Veterans And National GUARDsmen) opened a recreational activity at a bowling alley to all Monsanto In order to assist with attracting, developing and retaining employees. Among those in attendance were employees from talented employees who may have a military background, the France, Russia, Uzbekistan, Bulgaria and Mexico. “I realized VANGUARD network was formed. we were reaching out to a much broader audience,” said Rocio “Vanguard is Monsanto’s Veterans and National Guard Diversity Romero, Manufacturing Finance Analyst. “Our network has Group focused on bringing together Monsanto members elevated its goals to include reaching people who enjoy other who have supported their country or state through military cultures and learning about different backgrounds.” service, “ Tom Butler, Selective Chemistry Product Manager, F  or Romero, one of the most important focus areas in the Crop Protection, said. “Initiatives include providing support to Monsanto Latin Network is recruiting—and not just limited to service members and their families in the event of deployment, Hispanics and Latin Americans. “We focus on seeking the best networking with national and local military organizations, and talent to bring to Monsanto,” she said. “In our job searches, we working with Talent Acquisition groups.” come across a lot of great talent. Our focus is to bring more The Access Network According to the U.S. Census, in the Hispanics to the company, but we bring anyone who has the best last 10 years the percentage of persons with disabilities who talent. In the past four years, we’ve recruited one Hispanic, one graduated from college rose from 9.4 percent to 33 percent, African-American, one Asian and one Caucasian.” while college graduates without disabilities rose only 3 percent. Monsanto St. Louis Women’s Network focuses on The Access Network was formed to address this increase in leadership development, mentoring and building relationships graduates with disabilities. within the organization. “For women who don’t have leadership “Through the Access Network, we support the retention, recruitexperience, we allow them to take leadership roles within ment and advancement of our employees, candidates and the network to help build those skills,” said Jennifer Listello, guests with visible and hidden disabilities,” says Peggy Sullivan, President of the Monsanto St. Louis Women’s Network. University Recruiter and Access Network Co-Lead. “The “We hold events to help women with career development and Network focuses on improving access to facilities, opportunioften have successful women from both within and outside of ties and resources for those with disabilities and those who the organization come in to talk about their careers.” Listello support them in their professional endeavors at Monsanto.” added, “The women within the network are truly looking for good examples of women succeeding to help them navigate “Monsanto continues to look for ways to support our employees, their careers at Monsanto.” enhance our culture of inclusion, broaden our perspectives and go beyond just thinking about diversity in terms of race and gender,” said Steve Mizell, Executive Vice President, Human Resources. “Supporting our employees and promoting an inclusive environment is critical for our business.” 2011 Corporate Social Responsibility and Sustainability Report 71 BUSINESS PROFILE 3 S tak eho l d er E n g ag e m e n t 11 T e c h n o lo g y a n d busi n ess G OV E R N A NC E 25 commitment to sustainable agriculture 38 P R O Du c i n g m ore 40 c o n servi n g m ore 47 i m prov ing li v es 62 Food Labeling: Diversity of Thought GRI Index 89 Crops produced through the use of biotechnology are considered genetically modified (GM), and labeling these products has been a subject of debate for some time. While the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) has concluded that labeling is not required for food from GM crops, and studies have confirmed the safety of consuming GM crops, Monsanto considers the various points of view. Food labels are important for identifying what a food is, what it contains and how it fits into the diet. These labels have long GM Research Reports been a source of information relevant to consumer health and provide instructions for proper use and preparation. The food In December, 2010, the European Commission published label has also been an effective consumer marketing tool. In a report summarizing the results of 50 research projects the United States, the FDA is charged with ensuring foods are addressing the safety of GM crops for the environment and labeled correctly. for animal and human health. These projects received funding The U.S. Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act specifically of €200 million from the European Union and are part of a states what is required on food product labels to communicate 25-year long research effort on GM crops. In announcing ingredients, nutritional content and scientifically documented the report, the Commission stated, “…there is, as of today, health or safety concerns, such as allergens. The FDA has no scientific evidence associating GM crops with higher concluded there is no need to mandate labeling of the risks for the environment or for food and feed safety than process—such as agricultural biotechnology—by which a food conventional plants.” 1 was developed or produced, because accurate information Also in 2010, the National Research Council of the U.S. regarding the food is already required. Consistent with this National Academy of Sciences issued a report, “The Impact approach, if a production or processing difference results of Genetically Engineered Crops on Farm Sustainability in the in a change in the food itself, or alters the food in some way, United States,” which concludes that U.S. farmers growing then that difference will be reflected on the label. In this biotech crops “...are realizing substantial economic and way, a consumer who reads a food label knows it conveys environmental benefits—such as lower production costs, fewer clear and material information about the food in a consistent pest problems, reduced use of pesticides, and better yields— manner. Production techniques, such as organic agriculture compared with conventional crops.” 2 and agricultural biotechnology, can be included on the label 1 http://ec.europa.eu/research/biosociety/pdf/a_decade_  if a manufacturer elects to do so, but are not required under current U.S. law. of_eu-funded_gmo_research.pdf 2 http://www.nap.edu/openbook.php?record_id=12804​  Under these rules, foods containing biotech ingredients are subject to the same label requirements as other foods and will &page=R1 contain accurate information about their ingredients, nutritional content and any required health and safety information such as allergen content. The safety and benefits of GM products on the market are well-established. The safety has been confirmed 2011 Corporate Social Responsibility and Sustainability Report 72 BUSINESS PROFILE 3 S tak eho l d er E n g ag e m e n t 11 T e c h n o lo g y a n d busi n ess G OV E R N A NC E 25 commitment to sustainable agriculture 38 P R O Du c i n g m ore 40 FOOD LABELING: DIVERSITY OF THOUGHT, cont. c o n servi n g m ore 47 i m prov ing li v es 62 GRI Index 89 by national food safety agencies in scores of countries, as As a seed company, Monsanto is just one of many stakeholders well as international public health institutions like the World that have an interest in this topic. When you think about Health Organization. Hundreds of millions of meals containing food products purchased by consumers, seed suppliers are food from GM crops have been consumed over the past 15 a long way back in the food value chain, and there are many years, and there has not been a single substantiated instance other views that should be considered. There certainly are of illness or harm associated with these products. a wide range of views on this topic from a diverse group of stakeholders. The actual food product being labeled belongs to There are, however, preferences consumers may have about someone—they should have a voice. Monsanto does not have products that are not based on scientifically documented any food products on the shelf. In fact, we don’t even grow any nutritional differences or health or safety concerns. Food of the crops. Farmers do, and in growing our foods they should manufacturers’ voluntary labeling practices can address also have a voice. They are consumers and often proudly eat those preferences and provide consumers the opportunity to some of what they grow. make those choices. Food manufacturers who believe their customers want particular information can label their products As I absorb and think about all of this, I believe the most with specific production information as long as it is truthful and important outcome is that both farmers and consumers not misleading. have informed choices, without the effect of unhelpful fear mongering. The current system of voluntary labeling accomplishes these objectives, and everyone can find what Monsanto’s EVP for Sustainability they want. The competitive marketplace is alive and well. If more and more consumers truly want organic and other and Corporate Affairs Weighs In non-GM products, we will have more food companies offering more products to serve those needs. As I walk down my local GRI PR3 The subject of labeling brings up many strongly held grocery store aisle in St. Louis, Missouri, I see many of these views. I have personally received a lot of advice from many offerings, and this information is prominently displayed and different stakeholders as to what stand Monsanto should take marketed to consumers. As a seed company, we sell or license on requiring labels on foods using GM crops. These are crops many non-GM seeds so farmers have a choice, too. that have been designed to protect themselves from insects or to tolerate certain herbicides that enable better weed control, For consumers to whom this label information is not as requiring less tillage and thereby saving diesel fuel and topsoil. important, they benefit from farmers using technology that can In recent years, it also included several different technologies make food more plentiful. In today’s approach, both consumers to improve the healthfulness of oils from soybeans. and farmers get their choices, and neither are scared by something with no basis in fact. Our conclusion is that the Some advise that it would help build consumer confidence in current system of labeling in the U.S. offers the most benefits GM crops if we showed confidence and pride in our innovation to all parties. We proudly take this view along with many farmer and make it visible to the consumer. I believe this has merit, as organizations, food companies and NGOs. We recognize this is we are proud of the contributions our products make. Others not an issue everyone will agree upon, have said that it would be impossible for consumers to see a and respect the views of those who mandatory label as anything but a warning because they are come to a different conclusion. conditioned to conclude the reason to require this information is to inform consumers of a hazard. (Even though the safety record of 15 years is clear evidence there is nothing to warn them about.) This concern is exacerbated by the relentless aggressive scare tactics of some of the authors of labeling initiatives, who want GM labeling to be a warning. This advice Jerry Steiner is also compelling. EVP Sustainability & Corporate Affairs 2011 Corporate Social Responsibility and Sustainability Report 73 BUSINESS PROFILE 3 S tak eho l d er E n g ag e m e n t 11 T e c h n o lo g y a n d busi n ess G OV E R N A NC E 25 commitment to sustainable agriculture 38 P R O Du c i n g m ore 40 FOOD LABELING: DIVERSITY OF THOUGHT, cont. c o n servi n g m ore 47 i m prov ing li v es 62 GRI Index 89 One GRI PR3 Mother’s Perspective biotechnology [also called Genetically Engineered (GE) or Genetically Modified Organism (GMO)] are as safe as convenon Food Labeling tionally bred crops and provide benefits to the environment, As a mother of small children who cares about the food I feed but I respect food companies’ rights to voluntarily label my family, I rely on food labels for important information. I do products as “GM-Free” and customers’ rights to buy them. not always have the time to research product alternatives in I understand that some countries require food with ingredients advance, so my decisions have to be made in real time in the derived through biotechnology to be specially labeled. In the grocery store aisle with one child in the cart and the other U.S., such labeling is not required because the FDA has deterhanging on my arm. mined that there is no safety or nutritional difference between I need truthful information that does not mislead me about the biotech and conventional crops, and it is FDA policy to require quality, nutritional value and safety of the food I buy. Food labels labeling based on the characteristics of the food, not how it was should empower me to make good decisions, not be a source of developed and produced. The National Organic Program, which confusion while I am shopping. regulates food sold as organic in the U.S., does not allow biotech to be used by producers of organic crops, so consumers wishing At times, I seek products with special characteristics such as low to avoid biotech crops can choose foods that are certified organic. in fat or sodium, with added vitamins or a good source of whole grains. I appreciate it when this information is clearly and promiSome groups are seeking to have the FDA and/or individual nently presented on the label. If I can readily understand what states require food companies to specially label foods containing the claims mean, I will have an opportunity to make an informed biotech ingredients. I don’t think such labeling should be choice based on my preferences and budget. required by the government and I worry that, if it is required, it will mislead consumers regarding the safety of the products. Walking down the grocery aisle, it is easy to see that in addition In my opinion, the government’s mandatory label should be to ingredient and nutrition information, many food labels also reserved to convey safety and nutritional differences and include information about production practices (e.g., cage-free responding to other consumer preferences should be left eggs, certified organic lettuce and sustainably raised seafood). to voluntary marketing labeling by the food companies. I am also noticing more and more products labeled as “natural” or “made with all-natural ingredients.” Clearly there are many I understand the power of food labels and will continue to seek things consumers may want to know about their food, and food out food with clear and accurate labels that help me make good companies are working hard to determine what product characchoices about the quality and nutritional value of the food I feed teristics and claims drive consumer demand. my family. Some foods are labeled as “GM-Free.” As a scientist and Natalie DiNicola, Monsanto Company Monsanto employee, I know that crops produced through Sustainable Agriculture Partnerships Lead 2011 Corporate Social Responsibility and Sustainability Report 74 BUSINESS PROFILE 3 S tak eho l d er E n g ag e m e n t 11 T e c h n o lo g y a n d busi n ess G OV E R N A NC E 25 commitment to sustainable agriculture 38 P R O Du c i n g m ore 40 c o n servi n g m ore 47 i m prov ing li v es 62 MONSANTO FUND HIGHLIGHTS GRI Index 89 The GRI EC8 Monsanto Fund, established in 1946, supports projects that improve the lives of people around the world. As the philanthropic arm of the company, the Monsanto Fund seeks to improve lives by bridging the gap between people’s needs and their resources. Globally, we support solutions that address education and community needs in farming communities and communities where our employees live and work. INMED Partnerships for Children, Integrated Community Organization Brazil for Sustainable Empowerment and For more than a decade, the Monsanto Fund has supported Education for Development (ICOSEED), INMED Brazil in their quest to improve the health, nutritional Kenya status and environmental awareness of 1.5 million children in Brazil. Through the Healthy Children, Healthy Futures program, Getting enough food for a healthy and active life is a distant INMED is working to: dream for many school-going children in the arid and semi-arid regions of Kenya. ICOSEED, through its Vegetable Gardening • Reduce hunger among participating children by increasing Project, is working with schools in these areas to brighten the the availability of nutritious produce through school gardens outlook for these children. The gardening project supplements and nutrition education for teachers, school food workers and the government’s school feeding program by adding vegetables parents of school-age children. and fruits grown by the students to the menu. • Improve children’s health and nutritional status by increasing In 2010, the Monsanto Fund supported ICOSEED and its their access to nutritious foods, treating them for infections partners, and support continued in 2011 through a US$195,000 that rob them of vital nutrients, and educating them on good grant. A technology resource kit was provided for each school nutrition practices and preventative health, hygiene and saniand contained inputs and resources needed to build and maintation measures. tain a quarter-acre garden under drip irrigation. The ICOSEED • Build the foundation for long-term improvements in the Vegetable Gardening Project has grown from 50 schools in quality of life for families in the community by enhancing 2010 to 125 schools today. environmental and healthand nutrition-related education for The project uses the school gardens as a platform to encourparents and other community members, and increasing food age the wider community to address local food security and security by encouraging the use of family gardens. nutritional needs. The concept has been well-received in the With this approach of family and community education and community, with 23 other schools independently setting up engagement, the work of INMED, complemented by US$2.5 their own vegetable gardens. million from the Monsanto Fund, has impacted as many as 5 million people throughout Brazil. (INMED was originally an acronym for International Medical Services for Health. The name of the parent organization is now INMED Partnerships for Children.) 2011 Corporate Social Responsibility and Sustainability Report 75 BUSINESS PROFILE 3 S tak eho l d er E n g ag e m e n t 11 T e c h n o lo g y a n d busi n ess G OV E R N A NC E 25 commitment to sustainable agriculture 38 P R O Du c i n g m ore 40 MONSANTO FUND HIGHLIGHTS, cont. c o n servi n g m ore 47 i m prov ing li v es 62 GRI Index 89 Circle for Integrated Community Professional Assistance for Development (CICOD), Malawi Development Action, India Malawi’s second largest city, Lilongwe, has an estimated With the help of the Monsanto Fund, a five year project is population of 860,000. The city has long been content with underway to improve the incomes of 3,000 poor families one fire station, but as the town has continued to grow both in in Kalahandi district, through Integrated Natural Resource population and area, this fire station located in Old Town could Development (INRD), improved farming systems and better no longer serve its 682-square-kilometer zone effectively. market linkages. Realizing the need for a fire-fighting facility commensurate with The program, which began in October 2011, identified women the city’s industrial area, CICOD brought together a consortium from target families and organized them into Self Help Groups. of businesses working in Kanengo, the heart of Lilongwe’s These women learn sustainable agriculture practices— industrial district, with the common aim of setting up a fire maximizing return without depleting resources—through sub-station. integrated land and water resource development education, which propagates the benefits of rainwater harvesting, land With a grant from the Monsanto Fund in the amount of conservation and the judicious use of resources through modern US$48,600, the Kanengo consortium acquired a fire engine cropping practices using organic inputs. These demonstrations as a first step toward establishing this new fire station. The helped mobilize support from government bodies, banks and new fire engine is now in the hands of the Lilongwe City other financial institutions to sustainably replicate these farming Council which oversees its day-to-day running, staffing and systems in neighboring villages. maintenance. It is expected that income from the land under cultivation using Since it was commissioned, the fire engine has assisted those INRD will reduce encroachment on nearby forest land and in the Kanengo area during fire emergencies. Fitted with stanencourage the local population to preserve that forest land. dard rescue gear, the fire engine has proved invaluable in road accident rescue response and fire rescue response, including Within the first quarter alone, twelve Self Help Groups were extinguishing fires in eight houses in Lilongwe. established, and 150 families have been educated on the importance of INRD to increase their incomes and how to fulfill their economic aspirations through concept seeding sessions. Three irrigation schemes, under an Integrated Action Plan, have been set up, and flow irrigation schemes have been installed to help more than 50 families enhance their agricultural productivity as well as their household food consumption. 2011 Corporate Social Responsibility and Sustainability Report 76 BUSINESS PROFILE 3 S tak eho l d er E n g ag e m e n t 11 T e c h n o lo g y a n d busi n ess G OV E R N A NC E 25 commitment to sustainable agriculture 38 P R O Du c i n g m ore 40 c o n servi n g m ore 47 i m prov ing li v es 62 MONSANTO EMPLOYEE VOLUNTEERISM GRI Index 89 GRI EC8 Monsanto employees have a long history of volunteer work. The Monsantogether program was created to make it easier for employees to get involved in the communities where they live and do business. Monsantogether was launched in 2010 in Brazil, Canada, the United States and the Latin America South region. The program supports employees’ personal charitable involvement and recognizes community volunteer efforts. In just 14 months: 394 SINCE THE LAUNCH, volunteer events have been organized 1,290 organizations, schools, and instruments of employees have state or local governments have benefited participated in from the program, and more than volunteer events US$112,500 in financial grants were issued to participating organizations. 28,455 employee volunteer hours have been logged 2011 Corporate Social Responsibility and Sustainability Report 77 BUSINESS PROFILE 3 S tak eho l d er E n g ag e m e n t 11 T e c h n o lo g y a n d busi n ess G OV E R N A NC E 25 commitment to sustainable agriculture 38 P R O Du c i n g m ore 40 c o n servi n g m ore 47 Commitment to Education: i m prov ing li v es 62 Monsanto’s Beachell-Borlaug International Scholars Program GRI Index 89 Rice GRI EC8 and wheat are two of the most important crops for food security, with more than half the world’s people depending upon these crops daily. As part of our commitment to sustainable agriculture, • Opportunities to interact with leaders in government, Monsanto pledged US$10 million to provide fellowship research, academia and industry opportunities to highly motivated individuals seeking their After three years, Monsanto’s Beachell-Borlaug International PhD in rice or wheat plant breeding. Through these fellowships, Scholars Program (MBBIS) has provided 38 scholars from the scholars gain the leadership skills, education and tools 19 different countries the opportunity to pursue their PhD to positively impact rice and wheat farmers around the world at leading universities and to collaborate with research and improve the future of agriculture. institutions around the world. The program is designed to provide some unique learning All applications for fellowships are reviewed by an independent experiences for the scholars, including: panel of internationally recognized judges. • Scholar-developed applied research programs that include Visit www.monsanto.com/mbbischolars to learn more about experiential learning in both developed and developing the program. countries • Participation in the World Food Prize and Borlaug Dialogue in Des Moines, IA “In addition to his passion for plant breeding, “I would recommend this program to any aspiring one of my grandfather’s [Dr. Borlaug] greatest individual. Here is one genuine and lifetime commitments was to educating future generations opportunity to join and be a part of a distinguished of scientists. This program, named in his honor, group of world citizens that have vowed to alleviate continues his legacy.” —Julie Borlaug, Borlaug world hunger! To me, MBBIS gives life to our Institute for International Agriculture, Texas A&M. dreams!” —Godwin Macharia, 2009 Scholar from Kenya 2011 Corporate Social Responsibility and Sustainability Report 78 BUSINESS PROFILE 3 S tak eho l d er E n g ag e m e n t 11 T e c h n o lo g y a n d busi n ess G OV E R N A NC E 25 commitment to sustainable agriculture 38 P R O Du c i n g m ore 40 c o n servi n g m ore 47 i m prov ing li v es 62 EMPLOYEE DATA GRI Index 89 GRI LA1 The total workforce broken down by employees  GRI LA2 Rate of employees leaving employment during the  and supervised workers. reporting period broken down by gender. Employees 20,767 Female 2.81% Supervised Workers 0 Male 5.88% Total 20,767 Total 8.69% Note: We do not centrally track contract workers. Our Environmental, Safety & Health Group applies  GRI LA2 Total number of employees leaving employment  an algorithm to the total number of hours worked during the reporting period broken down by by contract workers to derive a Full Time Employee age group. equivalent for OSHA reporting purposes. Under 30 369 30-50 1,045 GRI LA1 The total number of permanent employees broken Over 50 391 down by employment type. Total 1,805 Full time 20,323 Part time 444  GRI LA2 Rate of employees leaving employment during the  reporting period broken down by age group. Total 20,767 Under 30 1.78% The total workforce broken down by region using 30-50 5.03% GRI LA1 a geographic breakdown based on the scale of Over 50 1.88% the organization’s operations. Total % 8.69% Asia Pacific 953  GRI LA2 Total number of employees leaving employment Brazil 2,373  during the reporting period broken down by region. Canada 239 Asia Pacific 101 China 196 Brazil 325 Europe/Middle East/Africa 3,603 Canada 18 India 831 China 25 Latin America North 1,170 Europe/Middle East/Africa 449 Latin America South 1,247 India 116 United States 10,155 Latin America North 97 Total 20,767 Latin America South 99 Total number of employees leaving employment United States 575 GRI LA2 during the reporting period broken down by gender. Total 1,805 Female 583 Male 1,222 Total 1,805 2011 Corporate Social Responsibility and Sustainability Report 79 BUSINESS PROFILE 3 S tak eho l d er E n g ag e m e n t 11 T e c h n o lo g y a n d busi n ess G OV E R N A NC E 25 commitment to sustainable agriculture 38 P R O Du c i n g m ore 40 EMPLOYEE DATA, cont. c o n servi n g m ore 47 i m prov ing li v es 62 GRI Index 89 GRI LA2 Rate of employees leaving employment during the GRI LA2 The percentage of individuals within the reporting period broken down by region. organization’s governance bodies by gender. Asia Pacific 0.49% % By total leaders Brazil 1.56% Female 26.20% Canada 0.09% Male 73.80% China 0.12% Total 100% Europe/Middle East/Africa 2.16% India 0.56% GRI LA13  he percentage of individuals within the T Latin America North 0.47% organization’s governance bodies in minority Latin America South 0.48% groups.* United States 2.77% % By total leaders Total 8.69% Total 16.59% *U.S. only. Excludes white males and white females. GRI LA12  he percentage of total employees (from LA1) T who received a formal performance appraisal GRI LA13  he percentage of individuals within the T and review during the reporting period. organization’s governance bodies by age group. Total 97.54% % By total leaders Under 30 1.46% The percentage of employees in the gender 30-50 72.29% GRI LA13 category (female/male). Over 50 26.25% Female 30.90% Total 100% Male 69.10% Total 100% GRI LA13 The percentage of employees in minority groups.* 24.45% *U.S. only. Excludes white males and white females. GRI LA13 The percentage of employees by age group. Under 30 15.93% 30-50 64.19% Over 50 19.87% Total 100% 2011 Corporate Social Responsibility and Sustainability Report 80 BUSINESS PROFILE 3 S tak eho l d er E n g ag e m e n t 11 T e c h n o lo g y a n d busi n ess G OV E R N A NC E 25 commitment to sustainable agriculture 38 P R O Du c i n g m ore 40 c o n servi n g m ore 47 i m prov ing li v es 62 MONSANTO'S STAR PROGRAM GRI Index 89 Assuring GRI LA7–8 GRI S010 UN1 a safe place to work is a fundamental building block of our Pledge. The Monsanto Star program provides employees the opportunity to earn safety certifications for their site through strong programs and participation. Through recent challenging economic times, many governmental programs have been financially stressed for support, making it even more important to maintain a strong company focus on our internal safety programs. The Monsanto Star Program has continued its success procedures. The updates of Job Safety Analyses, the participathrough employee education, commitment and management tion in hazard recognition programs, and the conduct of safety support. It provides both U.S. and international sites the observations are just a few of the programs under continuous opportunity to showcase their above and beyond review for improvement opportunities. compliance with the Occupational Safety and Health With more than 450 sites globally, Monsanto has an ongoing Administration’s (OSHA) Voluntary Protection Program commitment to certify all attainable sites into the Star Program. and other internationally recognized programs. Safety is a core value of Monsanto, and through participation Our Star Program also helps drive continuous improvement, in the Star Program, employees have the opportunity to come as re-certification is required on a multi-year basis. Monsanto together for a very personal, common goal. sites must demonstrate their focus on improving practices and Total Star Sites by Year 120 100 80 60 40 20 0 00 01 02 03 04 05 06 07 08 09 10 11 Source: Historical Monsanto Star Site Records 2011 Corporate Social Responsibility and Sustainability Report 81 BUSINESS PROFILE 3 S tak eho l d er E n g ag e m e n t 11 T e c h n o lo g y a n d busi n ess G OV E R N A NC E 25 commitment to sustainable agriculture 38 P R O Du c i n g m ore 40 MONSANTO’S STAR PROGRAM, cont. c o n servi n g m ore 47 i m prov ing li v es 62 GRI Index 89 Recognition of Occupational operate for a specified period of time without experiencing a lost-time injury incident among employees. Safety Performance Union Pacific Railroad awarded Monsanto the 2011 Annual The Soda Springs Plant—after one year without experiencing Pinnacle Award which recognizes Union Pacific customers an injury—received the following message from Dean Ikeda, that implement successful prevention and corrective plans to OSHA Regional Administrator, Seattle: “OSHA congratulates achieve a rate of zero non-accident releases (NARs) for shipMonsanto for operating the past year without a recordable ments of regulated hazardous materials. Monsanto is one of injury or illness. As a Voluntary Protection Program (VPP) only 79 companies so recognized. Star, this site has demonstrated that a systematic approach The Chemical Industry Council of Malaysia recognized the Pasir to safety with direct employee involvement can significantly Gudang, Malaysia, manufacturing plant for outstanding perforreduce hazards, and improve overall performance.” mance with the Responsible Care® Gold and Platinum Awards The Muscatine, Iowa, manufacturing facility was recognized for for employee safety, health and process safety. working with the Chemical Sector Specific Agency in educating and partnering with the U.S. Department of Homeland Security to protect the U.S. chemical industry. Commitment to Safety The Kearney, Nebraska, site received the Governor’s Wellness of Our Neighbors Award in recognition of growing the seeds of wellness by proIn addition to the safety of our employees, families, and conviding programs and services for employees. tractors, we value the safety of our neighbors in the communiThe Philippines Corn Breeding team received a Safety Mileties where we operate. We recognize the need to have strong stone — or “SMILE”— Award from the Philippines Department process safety management systems in place and continuously of Labor and Employment. The award is presented through the improve those systems. Bureau of Working Conditions and is given to companies that A Process Safety Leadership Team and a management review system monitors process safety systems across our chemical operations. A Process Safety Technical Team made up of key technical contacts from each of our chemical manufacturing Employee Total Recordable Rate sites meets regularly to share process safety information and identify and promote good practices. Monsanto has adopted the safety metrics recommended by the Center for Chemical 1.20 Process Safety which track the number and severity of releases 1.05 of hazardous chemicals. In addition, we track process safety 1.00 metrics for action tracking follow-up, mechanical integrity, 0.80 management of change and process safety training. 0.80 0.71 0.66 0.63 0.63 In an effort to better understand and continuously improve 0.60 employees’ and contractors’ understanding of process safety, we periodically employ a consulting firm to use a 0.40 process safety cultural survey tool across all of our chemical manufacturing sites. The survey is given to all employees and 0.20 contractors in English, Spanish, Portuguese, Bahasa Indone0.00 sian, Bahasa Malay, Flemish, and Hindi languages. The survey 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 enables us to compare ourselves to internal and external benchmarks. The survey results provide us with an opportunity Internal Monsanto Global Incident Reporting System Data ©2012 American Chemistry Council, Inc. 2011 Corporate Social Responsibility and Sustainability Report 82 Responsible Care® is a registered service mark of the American Chemistry Council, Inc. BUSINESS PROFILE 3 S tak eho l d er E n g ag e m e n t 11 T e c h n o lo g y a n d busi n ess G OV E R N A NC E 25 commitment to sustainable agriculture 38 P R O Du c i n g m ore 40 MONSANTO’S STAR PROGRAM, cont. c o n servi n g m ore 47 i m prov ing li v es 62 GRI Index 89 to identify areas for improvement in clarity of goals, responsidriving on public roads or farms under varying conditions; bilities, procedures, equipment, process safety reporting, safety drivers are required to participate in a commentary/peer values, worker empowerment and process safety training. reviewed driving process to help them improve their All of the sites participating in the survey have analyzed their driving skills under actual driving conditions; seatbelt use is results and put in place action plans for areas of improvement. mandated by all vehicle occupants in company vehicles or while driving on company business and the use of handheld devices is prohibited while driving. Off The Job Safety Monsanto sites continue to conduct semi-annual unannounced Monsanto continues to be a leader with the outreach of seat belt checks of employees entering the work site — The our Global-Off-the-Job Safety (OTJS) Program. Monsanto Click Heard Around the World campaigns. Globally, 94 percent employees delivered awareness training and critical of our employees were observed wearing their seat belts and safety supplies related to vehicle safety, emergency 97 percent of our employees who commute to work using a preparedness, first aid and illness/injury prevention, motorcycle were observed wearing helmets. In addition, 165 to name a few. sites were recognized around the world for attaining 100 percent compliance in both categories and were presented with The company collectively touched 350,000 employees, the 100 Percent Compliance Plaque. family members, members of the communities where we live and work, and customers through the numerous outreach activities across the world in FY2011. In recognition of the Monsanto employees who promote safety in the communities where we live and work, the Actively Caring Award (ACA) was developed to recognize those employees who used life-saving Employee Collisions per skills in emergency situations to save others’ lives. Million Miles (CPMM) The S.A.F.E. Community Award (Safety Awareness for Excellence — Community) was developed to recognize actions our 4.50 4.26 200 4.21 employees have taken which positively impact their local com3.86 4.00 180 munities and can be validated by a third party (such as a fire 3.65 3.64 3.58 3.58 department, hospital, police department or school). 3.50 3.43 160 In total, we proudly recognized nine heroes with the ACA Life 3.08 140 3.00 Saver Award and two teams with the S.A.F.E. Community 120 Award in FY2011. 2.50 100 2.00 80 Global Vehicle Safety 1.50 60 Monsanto drivers traveled 170 million miles and achieved 1.00 a historic low rate of collisions per million miles (cpmm) 40 of 3.08 in FY2011. (See chart at right.) 0.50 20 The Monsanto vehicle policy is expanding globally to meet 0.00 0 our diverse business needs. For example, newer and safer 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 technologies are considered when replacing vehicles in order CPMM Miles to increase the safety of all drivers and passengers while Internal Monsanto Global Incident Reporting System Data 2011 Corporate Social Responsibility and Sustainability Report 83 BUSINESS PROFILE 3 S tak eho l d er E n g ag e m e n t 11 T e c h n o lo g y a n d busi n ess G OV E R N A NC E 25 commitment to sustainable agriculture 38 P R O Du c i n g m ore 40 c o n servi n g m ore 47 i m prov ing li v es 62 MONSANTO'S Stake In Road Safety GRI Index 89 What began in 2002 as a comprehensive global vehicle safety benchmark average, Monsanto’s rate of 3.79 resulted in 725 program for Monsanto’s business drivers has broadened in fewer crashes, thus reducing the risk of injury and death to scope, making road safety a component of Monsanto’s comMonsanto’s business drivers and providing cost savings of at mitment to corporate social responsibility. least US$11 million. While attention to road safety by most companies stops Through its association with NETS and the success enjoyed where their direct influence ends, Monsanto is among a select by the benchmark program, Monsanto has become involved number of enterprises that understand driving is likely an in two important road safety projects. Monsanto and other employee’s riskiest daily activity. Monsanto views road safety NETS members will work with the U.S. National Highway Traffic as an aspect of employee well-being, community outreach and Safety Administration to develop an employer-led model for global sustainability. increasing seat belt use in the USA. In addition, Monsanto will assist the Inter-American Development Bank (IDB) in a project Monsanto’s recognition of road safety as a global imperative to improve the safety standards of new cars manufactured in is supported by predictions made by the United Nations. From Latin America and the Caribbean. a worldwide perspective and left unchecked, traffic-related crashes, injuries and fatalities will result in significant social The IDB project results from NETS’ participation in the Decade and economic costs, especially among low and middle income of Action for Road Safety 2011–2020. This global initiative is countries. Annual global traffic-related fatalities are forecast to under the auspices of the World Health Organization and was grow from 1.3 million in 2008 to almost 2 million by 2020. This formed to slow the growing losses from road crashes, injuries, increase will be accompanied by up to 100 million severe injuries and fatalities. NETS is a member of the steering committee and consume up to 4% of a low income nation’s GNP in 2020. leading this global initiative. The Decade of Action for Road Safety 2011-2020 provides the framework for Monsanto and Monsanto has put into practice its commitment to road safety other companies to model corporate road safety and to advoby producing safe driving campaigns for all Monsanto employcate for safer drivers and vehicles, improved roadway infraees, resourcing off-the-job safety, supporting community novice structure and capacity, as well as enhanced post-crash care. driver training programs and participating in road safety conferences. It also took an important step in 2004 when it became a member of the board of directors of the Network of Employers for Traffic Safety (NETS). This global NGO is a private-public partnership, employer-led, and dedicated to road safety. In its role as a member of NETS’ board of directors, Monsanto saw the need to provide employers with a platform for discussing road safety issues and sharing best practices. To this end, in 2007, Monsanto broadened NETS’ capabilities by initiating and providing start-up funding for an annual, comprehensive and global fleet safety benchmark program and benchmark conference. This has proven to be a successful strategic initiative. Since 2007, NETS’ benchmark program has more than doubled in size and in 2011 collected and analyzed data from almost 500,000 vehicles driving more than ten billion miles in 128 countries. The benchmark program also yields best Monsanto has been a sponsor of the Troy, Missouri, FFA. In these videos, practices, which are shared among NETS’ members. FFA members learn about seatbelt safety, the importance of seatbelts in rollover accidents, and the dangers of texting and driving. Monsanto’s road safety metrics make it a leader among the benchmarking companies. The 2010 NETS member crash rate • Seatbelts: www.youtube.com/watch?v=H_Gsu_xOkaE average was 8.08 per million miles. Compared to this 2010 • Rollovers: www.youtube.com/watch?v=x39iEzJNge4 2011 Corporate Social Responsibility and Sustainability Report 84 BUSINESS PROFILE 3 S tak eho l d er E n g ag e m e n t 11 T e c h n o lo g y a n d busi n ess G OV E R N A NC E 25 commitment to sustainable agriculture 38 P R O Du c i n g m ore 40 c o n servi n g m ore 47 i m prov ing li v es 62 INJURY AND ILLNESS DATA GRI Index 89 GRI LA7 Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, total recordable rate, and total number of work-related fatalities by region and gender. Absenteeism rate not available 2.2 S(first-aid ince some reporting organizations include minor level) injuries in their data, indicate whether 2.1 Tforhis indicator should provide a regional breakdown the following, by gender: such injuries are included or excluded. First aids excluded 2.3 Icalendar n calculating “lost days,” indicate whether “days” means Total Workforce Employees days or scheduled work days. Sum of Sum of Sum of Calendar days Female Male GENDERS The point at which the “lost days” count begins (e.g., the Asia Pacific 447 1,299 1,746 day after the accident or three days after the accident). (N. Asia, PANSEA, India) EMEA One day 1,141 2,126 3,267 (Europe, Middle East, Africa) Latin America North 350 678 1,028 2.4 Rtional eport regional breakdown and total of injury, occupadiseases and “lost days” in the reporting period by Latin America South 875 2,483 3,358 gender, using the following formula: TOTAL # of Injuries North America (CA, PR, US) 3,712 7,656 11,368 IR = x 200,000 Total Hours Worked Grand Total 6,525 14,242 20,767 TOTAL # of Occupational ODR = Disease Cases x 200,000 Employees by Region Head Count Total Hours Worked TOTAL # of Lost Days LDR = x 200,000 Note: We do not centrally track contract workers. Total Hours Worked Our Environmental, Safety & Health Group applies an algorithm to the total number of hours worked TOTAL # of Injuries + TRR = Occupational Diseases x 200,000 by contract workers to derive a Full Time Employee equivalent for OSHA reporting purposes. Total Hours Worked Note: The factor 200,000 is derived from 50 working weeks at 40 hours per 100 employees. By using this factor, the resulting rate is related to the number of employees, not the number of hours. 2011 Corporate Social Responsibility and Sustainability Report 85 BUSINESS PROFILE 3 S tak eho l d er E n g ag e m e n t 11 T e c h n o lo g y a n d busi n ess G OV E R N A NC E 25 commitment to sustainable agriculture 38 P R O Du c i n g m ore 40 INJURY AND ILLNESS DATA, cont. c o n servi n g m ore 47 i m prov ing li v es 62 2.4 C ontinued GRI Index 89 Employee and Supervised Contractors* By Region, Illness, Injury, Gender occ days injury & Occ injury diseases away Diseases total injury rate occ disease lost days recordable (IR) rate (ODR) rate (LDR) rate (TRR) Asia Pacific (N. Asia, PANSEA, India) 0.47 0.04 0.94 0.51 Recordable Illness (ODR) 0.00 0.04 0.00 0.00 Female 0.00 0.12 0.00 0.50 Male 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 Recordable Injury (IR) 0.47 0.00 0.94 0.00 Female 0.37 0.00 1.24 0.50 Male 0.51 0.00 0.80 0.51 EMEA (Europe, Middle East, Africa) 1.24 0.00 13.26 1.24 Recordable Illness (ODR) 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 Female 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 Male 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 Recordable Injury (IR) 1.24 0.00 13.26 1.24 Female 1.43 0.00 6.81 1.43 Male 1.15 0.00 16.21 1.15 Latin America North 0.68 0.21 3.67 0.90 Recordable Illness (ODR) 0.00 0.21 0.55 0.00 Female 0.00 0.27 0.00 1.49 Male 0.00 0.41 0.81 0.62 Recordable Injury (IR) 0.68 0.00 3.12 0.00 Female 1.22 0.00 2.85 1.49 Male 0.44 0.00 3.24 0.62 Latin America South 0.68 0.02 5.15 0.70 Recordable Illness (ODR) 0.00 0.02 0.00 0.00 Female 0.00 0.06 0.00 0.48 Male 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 Recordable Injury (IR) 0.68 0.00 5.15 0.00 Female 0.42 0.00 0.48 0.48 Male 0.79 0.00 7.29 0.79 North America (CA, PR, US) 0.74 0.17 3.46 0.91 Recordable Illness (ODR) 0.00 0.17 0.31 0.00 Female 0.00 0.27 0.13 0.96 Male 0.00 0.12 0.40 0.89 Recordable Injury (IR) 0.74 0.00 3.15 0.00 Female 0.69 0.00 3.05 0.96 Male 0.77 0.00 3.19 0.89 Grand Total 0.76 0.12 4.71 0.88 *Contract Workers Supervised by Monsanto Employees 2011 Corporate Social Responsibility and Sustainability Report 86 BUSINESS PROFILE 3 S tak eho l d er E n g ag e m e n t 11 T e c h n o lo g y a n d busi n ess G OV E R N A NC E 25 commitment to sustainable agriculture 38 P R O Du c i n g m ore 40 INJURY AND ILLNESS DATA, cont. c o n servi n g m ore 47 i m prov ing li v es 62 2.4 C ontinued GRI Index 89 Contractors Not Supervised by Monsanto Employees By Region, Illness, Injury, Gender occ days injury & Occ injury diseases away Diseases total injury rate occ disease lost days recordable (IR) rate (ODR) rate (LDR) rate (TRR) Asia Pacific (N. Asia, PANSEA, India) 0.05 0.00 0.02 0.05 Recordable Illness (ODR) 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 Female 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 Male 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 Recordable Injury (IR) 0.05 0.00 0.02 0.05 Female 0.05 0.00 0.00 0.00 Male 0.04 0.00 0.02 0.00 EMEA (Europe, Middle East, Africa) 0.30 0.00 1.70 0.30 Recordable Illness (ODR) 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 Female 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 Male 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 Recordable Injury (IR) 0.30 0.00 1.70 0.30 Female 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 Male 0.96 0.00 5.40 0.00 Latin America North 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 Recordable Illness (ODR) 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 Female 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 Male 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 Recordable Injury (IR) 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 Female 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 Male 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 Latin America South 0.04 0.00 0.09 0.04 Recordable Illness (ODR) 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 Female 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 Male 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 Recordable Injury (IR) 0.04 0.00 0.09 0.04 Female 0.03 0.00 0.00 0.00 Male 0.04 0.00 0.13 0.00 North America (CA, PR, US) 0.77 0.22 1.44 0.99 Recordable Illness (ODR) 0.00 0.22 0.13 0.99 Female 0.00 0.49 0.28 0.00 Male 0.00 0.10 0.06 0.00 Recordable Injury (IR) 0.77 0.00 1.30 0.99 Female 0.63 0.00 0.28 0.00 Male 0.84 0.00 1.77 0.00 Grand Total 0.19 0.03 0.38 0.19 2011 Corporate Social Responsibility and Sustainability Report 87 BUSINESS PROFILE 3 S tak eho l d er E n g ag e m e n t 11 T e c h n o lo g y a n d busi n ess G OV E R N A NC E 25 commitment to sustainable agriculture 38 P R O Du c i n g m ore 40 INJURY AND ILLNESS DATA, cont. c o n servi n g m ore 47 i m prov ing li v es 62 GRI Index 89 2.5 Raneport fatalities in the reporting period by gender, using absolute number, not a rate. 2.6 Rreporting eport the system of rules applied in recording and accident statistics. The “ILO Code of Practice on Recording and Notification of Occupational AcciEmployeeS ContractorS dents and Diseases” was developed for the reporting, Female 0 2 recording, and notification of workplace accidents. Male 0 0 OSHA 2011 Corporate Social Responsibility and Sustainability Report 88 BUSINESS PROFILE 3 S tak eho l d er E n g ag e m e n t 11 T e c h n o lo g y a n d busi n ess G OV E R N A NC E 25 commitment to sustainable agriculture 38 P R O Du c i n g m ore 40 c o n servi n g m ore 47 i m provi n g l ives 62 GRI Index 89 GRI Index The following content index is provided in accordance with the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) guidelines. It shows where this report has provided information regarding the GRI indicators. It also shows where this report contains content related to the ten UN Global Compact Principles. This year, we’re self-declaring Monsanto at a C-level GRI report. We recognize that our GRI reporting in the coming years will be a journey of continuous improvement. 2011 Corporate Social Responsibility and Sustainability Report 89 BUSINESS PROFILE 3 S tak eho l d er E n g ag e m e n t 11 T e c h n o lo g y a n d busi n ess G OV E R N A NC E 25 commitment to sustainable agriculture 38 P R O Du c i n g m ore 40 c o n servi n g m ore 47 i m provi n g l ives 62 STandard Disclosures: profile * GRI Index 89 1. Strategy and Analysis S TA N DAR D D I S C LO S U R E S L I N K / PAG E R E F E R E N C E / N OT E S U N GCP** 1.1 Statement from the most senior Statement from CEO, page 3 decision maker of the organization. 1.2 Description of key impacts, risks, Commitment to Sustainable Agriculture, pages 38–39 and opportunities. 2. Organizational Profile S TA N DAR D D I S C LO S U R E S L I N K / PAG E R E F E R E N C E / N OT E S U N GCP** 2.1 Name of the organization. Monsanto Company 2.2 Primary brands, products, and/or services. Company website at www.monsanto.com/products 2011 Form 10-K (pages 7–9) at www.monsanto.com/investors/Documents/ Annual%20Report/Monsanto_2011_10-K.pdf 2.3 Operational structure of the organization, 2011 Form 10-K (pages 5–7 and Exhibit 21) at www.monsanto.com/investors/Pages/ including main divisions, operating companies, sec_html.aspx?id=0000950123-11-098240&sXbrl=1&compId=122069 subsidiaries, and joint ventures. 2.4 Location of organization’s headquarters. St. Louis, Missouri, United States 2.5 Number of countries where the organization Company website at www.monsanto.com/whoweare/Pages/our-locations.aspx operates, and names of countries with either 2011 Form 10-K (page 14) (Note 27, page 91) at www.monsanto.com/investors/ major operations or that are specifically relevant Documents/Annual%20Report/Monsanto_2011_10-K.pdf to the sustainability issues covered in the report. 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form. Company website at www.monsanto.com/whoweare/Pages/certificate-of-incorporation.aspx 2.7 Markets served (including geographic Company website at www.monsanto.com/whoweare/Pages/our-locations.aspx breakdown, sectors served, and types 2011 Form 10-K (page 14) at www.monsanto.com/investors/Documents/ of customers/beneficiaries). Annual%20Report/Monsanto_2011_10-K.pdf 2011 Form 10-K (Note 27, page 91-92) )at www.monsanto.com/investors/Documents/ Annual%20Report/Monsanto_2011_10-K.pdf 2.8 Scale of the reporting organization. 2011 Form 10-K (page 10) at www.monsanto.com/investors/Documents/ Annual%20Report/Monsanto_2011_10-K.pdf 2011 Form 10-K (page 44) at www.monsanto.com/investors/Documents/ Annual%20Report/Monsanto_2011_10-K.pdf Employee Data, pages 79–80 2.9 Significant changes during the reporting 2011 Form 10-K (page 21-32) at www.monsanto.com/investors/Documents/ period regarding size, structure, or ownership. Annual%20Report/Monsanto_2011_10-K.pdf 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period. Monsanto Recognitions, pages 5–8 UN6, page 6 *Unless otherwise noted (partially disclosed), all standard disclosures are reported fully. **United Nations Global Compact Principles 2011 Corporate Social Responsibility and Sustainability Report 90 BUSINESS PROFILE 3 S tak eho l d er E n g ag e m e n t 11 T e c h n o lo g y a n d busi n ess G OV E R N A NC E 25 commitment to sustainable agriculture 38 P R O Du c i n g m ore 40 Standard Disclosures: Profile*, cont. c o n servi n g m ore 47 i m provi n g l ives 62 GRI Index 89 3. Report Parameters S TA N DAR D D I S C LO S U R E S L I N K / PAG E R E F E R E N C E / N OT E S U N GCP** 3.1 Reporting period (e.g., fiscal/calendar year) Fiscal year 2010 (year ended August 31, 2011), except where noted for information provided. 3.2 Date of most recent previous report (if any). Fiscal year 2007–2009 (years ended August 31, 2011), except where noted 3.3 Reporting cycle (annual, biennial, etc.) Annual 3.4 Contact point for questions regarding the report CSRSReport.team@monsanto.com or its contents. 3.5 Process for defining report content. Iterative, involving senior management Stakeholder Engagement, page 14 2011 Form 10-K (Item 9A, page 96) at www.monsanto.com/investors/Documents/ Annual%20Report/Monsanto_2011_10-K.pdf 3.6 Boundary of the report (e.g., countries, Global owned and leased facilities divisions, subsidiaries, leased facilities, joint ventures, suppliers). 3.7 State any specific limitations on the scope Environmental Performance, pages 58-60 or boundary of the report. 3.8 Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, We do not anticipate the basis for this initial report to affect comparability leased facilities, outsourced operations, and for subsequent years. other entities that can significantly affect comparability from period to period and/or between organizations. 3.9 Data measurement techniques and the bases Commitment to Sustainable Agriculture, pages 38–39 of calculations, including assumptions and Producing More, pages 42–44 techniques underlying estimations applied to the compilation of the Indicators and other Conserving More, page 48 information in the report. 3.10 Explanation of the effect of any re-statements There have been no restatements of information provided in earlier reports, of information provided in earlier reports, and as this is our initial GRI report. the reasons for such re-statement (e.g., mergers/ acquisitions, change of base years/periods, nature of business, measurement methods). 3.11 Significant changes from previous reporting There have been no changes regarding the scope and boundary, periods in the scope, boundary, or measurement as this is our initial GRI report. methods applied in the report. 3.12 Table identifying the location of the Standard GRI Index, pages 89–98 Disclosures in the report. 3.13 Policy and current practice with regard to This report was not externally assured. seeking external assurance for the report. *Unless otherwise noted (partially disclosed), all standard disclosures are reported fully. **United Nations Global Compact Principles 2011 Corporate Social Responsibility and Sustainability Report 91 BUSINESS PROFILE 3 S tak eho l d er E n g ag e m e n t 11 T e c h n o lo g y a n d busi n ess G OV E R N A NC E 25 commitment to sustainable agriculture 38 P R O Du c i n g m ore 40 Standard Disclosures: Profile*, cont. c o n servi n g m ore 47 i m provi n g l ives 62 GRI Index 89 4. Governance, Commitments and Engagement S TA N DAR D D I S C LO S U R E S L I N K / PAG E R E F E R E N C E / N OT E S U N GCP** 4.1 Governance structure of the organization, Company website at www.monsanto.com/whoweare/Pages/corporate-governance.aspx including committees under the highest gover2011 Proxy Statement (pages 5-23) at www.monsanto.com/investors/Documents/ nance body responsible for specific tasks, such Annual%20Report/Monsanto_2011_Proxy_Statement.pdf as setting strategy or organizational oversight. 4.2 Indicate whether the Chair of the highest Yes. governance body is also an executive Company website at www.monsanto.com/whoweare/Pages/ officer (and, if so, their function within the board-of-directors-leadership-roles.aspx organization’s management and the reasons for this arrangement). 2011 Proxy Statement (page 8, rationale) at www.monsanto.com/investors/Documents/ Annual%20Report/Monsanto_2011_Proxy_Statement.pdf 4.3 For organizations that have a unitary board 2011 Proxy Statement (pages 6-7, 11 and Appendices A and B) at www.monsanto.com/ structure, state the number and gender of investors/Documents/Annual%20Report/Monsanto_2011_Proxy_Statement.pdf members of the highest governance body that are independent and/or non-executive members. 4.4 Mechanisms for shareholders and employees Company website at www.monsanto.com/whoweare/Pages/ContactOurDirectors.aspx to provide recommendations or direction to the 2011 Proxy Statement (pages 5, 9–11 and 87–88) at www.monsanto.com/investors/ highest governance body. Documents/Annual%20Report/Monsanto_2011_Proxy_Statement.pdf 4.6 Processes in place for the highest governance 2011 Form 10-K (Monsanto Code of Ethics for Chief Executive the senior leadership of the body to ensure conflicts of interest are avoided. finance department, page 96) at www.monsanto.com/investors/Documents/Annual%20 Report/Monsanto_2011_10-K.pdf 2011 Proxy Statement (pages 5, 9–11) at www.monsanto.com/investors/Documents/ Annual%20Report/Monsanto_2011_Proxy_Statement.pdf 4.7 Process for determining the composition, 2011 Proxy Statement (page 11 and Appendix B) at www.monsanto.com/investors/ qualifications, and expertise of the members Documents/Annual%20Report/Monsanto_2011_Proxy_Statement.pdf of the highest governance body and its committees, including any consideration of gender and other indicators of diversity. 4.9 Procedures of the highest governance body for 2011 Proxy Statement (Description of board level Sustainability and Corporate overseeing the organization’s identification and Responsibility Committee, page 20) at www.monsanto.com/investors/Documents/ management of economic, environmental, and Annual%20Report/Monsanto_2011_Proxy_Statement.pdf social performance, including relevant risks and opportunities, and adherence or compliance with internationally agreed standards, codes of conduct, and principles. 4.10 Processes for evaluating the highest governance 2011 Proxy Statement (Description of Board Self-Assessment, page 6) at www.monsanto.com/ body’s own performance, particularly with investors/Documents/Annual%20Report/Monsanto_2011_Proxy_Statement.pdf respect to economic, environmental, and social performance. 4.11 Explanation of whether and how the As a Member of the UN Global Compact, Monsanto incorporates the precautionary precautionary approach or principle approach in its product planning. See discussion of Principle 7 on page 35. is addressed by the organization. *Unless otherwise noted (partially disclosed), all standard disclosures are reported fully. **United Nations Global Compact Principles 2011 Corporate Social Responsibility and Sustainability Report 92 BUSINESS PROFILE 3 S tak eho l d er E n g ag e m e n t 11 T e c h n o lo g y a n d busi n ess G OV E R N A NC E 25 commitment to sustainable agriculture 38 P R O Du c i n g m ore 40 Standard Disclosures: Profile*, cont. c o n servi n g m ore 47 i m provi n g l ives 62 GRI Index 89 4. Governance, Commitments and Engagement, cont. S TA N DAR D D I S C LO S U R E S L I N K / PAG E R E F E R E N C E / N OT E S U N GCP** 4.12 Externally developed economic, environmental, Stakeholder Engagement, pages 22–24 UN7, pages and social charters, principles, or other initiatives Member of the UN Global Compact, pages 33–37 26–27 to which the organization subscribes or endorses. 4.13 Memberships in associations (such as industry Stakeholder Engagement, pages 22–24 UN7, pages associations) and/or national/international Technology and Business Governance, pages 26–27 26–27 advocacy organizations in which the organization has positions in governance bodies, participates in projects or committees, provides substantive funding beyond routine membership dues or views membership as strategic. 4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged Stakeholder Engagement, pages 12, 22–24 by the organization. Technology and Business Governance, page 34 4.15 Basis for identification and selection Stakeholder Engagement, page 12 of stakeholders with whom to engage. 4.16 Approaches to stakeholder engagement, Stakeholder Engagement, pages 13–15 including frequency of engagement by type and by stakeholder group. 4.17 Key topics and concerns that have been raised Stakeholder Engagement, page 14 through stakeholder engagement, and how the organization has responded to those key topics and concerns, including through its reporting. *Unless otherwise noted (partially disclosed), all standard disclosures are reported fully. **United Nations Global Compact Principles 2011 Corporate Social Responsibility and Sustainability Report 93 BUSINESS PROFILE 3 S tak eho l d er E n g ag e m e n t 11 T e c h n o lo g y a n d busi n ess G OV E R N A NC E 25 commitment to sustainable agriculture 38 P R O Du c i n g m ore 40 STandard Disclosures: i m provi n g l ives 62 c o n servi n g m ore 47 performance indicators* GRI Index 89 Environmental G R I I N D I CATO R L I N K / PAG E R E F E R E N C E / N OT E S U N GCP** Materials EN1 Materials used by weight or volume. Partially disclosed. Conserving More, page 60 Energy EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary Conserving More, pages 58–59 UN7, pages energy source. 58–60 UN8, pages 58–60 EN5 Energy saved due to conservation and Technology and Business Governance, pages 35–36 UN7, page 57 efficiency improvements. Conserving More, page 57 UN8, pages 48, 57 EN6 Initiatives to provide energy-efficient or Stakeholder Engagement, pages 22-24 UN7, pages renewable energy based products and services, Technology and Business Governance, pages 35–36 57–61 and reductions in energy requirements UN8, pages Producing More, page 46 as a result of these initiatives. 46, 57–61 Conserving More, pages 57–59 UN9, page 46 EN7 Initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption Technology and Business Governance, pages 35–36 and reductions achieved. Water EN8 Total water withdrawal by source. Conserving More, pages 58, 60 UN7, pages 58–60 UN8, pages 58–60 Biodiversity EN11 Location and size of land owned, leased, managed Partially disclosed. UN7, pages in, or adjacent to, protected areas and areas of high Conserving More, pages 51–54 51–54 biodiversity value outside protected areas. UN8, pages 51–54 EN12 Description of significant impacts of activities, Conserving More, pages 51–54 UN7, pages products, and services on biodiversity in protected 51–54 areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside UN8, pages protected areas. 51–54 EN13 Habitats protected or restored. Conserving More, pages 49–54 UN7, pages 51–54 UN8, pages 49–54 EN14 Strategies, current actions, and future plans for Stakeholder Engagement, pages 22–24 UN7, pages managing impacts on biodiversity. Technology and Business Governance, pages 35–36 51–54 Conserving More, pages 49–54 UN8, pages 49–54 *Unless otherwise noted (partially disclosed), all standard disclosures are reported fully. **United Nations Global Compact Principles 2011 Corporate Social Responsibility and Sustainability Report 94 BUSINESS PROFILE 3 S tak eho l d er E n g ag e m e n t 11 T e c h n o lo g y a n d busi n ess G OV E R N A NC E 25 commitment to sustainable agriculture 38 P R O Du c i n g m ore 40 Standard Disclosures: performance indicators*, cont. c o n servi n g m ore 47 i m provi n g l ives 62 GRI Index 89 Environmental, cont. G R I I N D I CATO R L I N K / PAG E R E F E R E N C E / N OT E S U N GCP** Emissions, Effluents and Waste EN16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions Conserving More, pages 58–59 UN7, pages by weight. 58–60 UN8, pages 58–60 EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions Technology and Business Governance, pages 35-36 UN1, page 39 and reductions achieved. UN8, pages Commitment to Sustainable Agriculture, page 39 39, 48 UN9, page 39 EN20 NO, SO, and other significant air Partially disclosed. emissions by type and weight. Conserving More, page 60 EN21 Total water discharge by quality and destination. Partially disclosed. Conserving More, page 59 EN22 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method. Partially disclosed. Conserving More, page 59 EN23 Total number and volume of significant spills. Conserving More, page 61 Products and Services EN26 Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts Stakeholder Engagement, pages 12, 22–24 UN7, pages of products and services, and extent of impact 55–56 Technology and Business Governance, pages 35-36 mitigation. UN8, pages Producing More, page 46 41, 46, 48, 50, Conserving More, pages 55–56 55–56 UN9, pages 41, 46 Compliance EN28 Monetary value of significant fines and total number Conserving More, page 61 of non-monetary sanctions for noncompliance with environmental laws and regulations. *Unless otherwise noted (partially disclosed), all standard disclosures are reported fully. **United Nations Global Compact Principles 2011 Corporate Social Responsibility and Sustainability Report 95 BUSINESS PROFILE 3 S tak eho l d er E n g ag e m e n t 11 T e c h n o lo g y a n d busi n ess G OV E R N A NC E 25 commitment to sustainable agriculture 38 P R O Du c i n g m ore 40 Standard Disclosures: performance indicators*, cont. c o n servi n g m ore 47 i m provi n g l ives 62 GRI Index 89 Human Rights G R I I N D I CATO R L I N K / PAG E R E F E R E N C E / N OT E S U N GCP** Investment and Procurement Practices HR1 Percentage and total number of significant Technology and Business Governance, page 33 UN1, pages investment agreements and contracts that include Improving Lives, pages 64-68 64–68 clauses incorporating human rights concerns, UN2, page 65 or that have undergone human rights screening. HR2 Percentage of significant suppliers, contractors Partially disclosed. UN1, pages and other business partners that have undergone Technology and Business Governance, page 33 64–68 human rights screening, and actions taken. Improving Lives, pages 64–68 HR3 Total hours of employee training on policies and Technology and Business Governance, pages 31, 33 UN1, pages procedures concerning aspects of human rights Improving Lives, pages 64–68 64–68 that are relevant to operations, including the percentage of employees trained. Non-Discrimination HR4 Total number of incidents of discrimination Partially disclosed. UN6, page 65 and corrective actions taken. Technology and Business Governance, page 33 Improving Lives, pages 65, 67–68 Freedom Of Association and Collective Bargaining HR5 Operations and significant suppliers identified in Technology and Business Governance, page 33 UN3, page 65 which the right to exercise freedom of association Improving Lives, page 65 and collective bargaining may be violated or at significant risk, and actions taken to support these rights. Child Labor HR6 Operations and significant suppliers identified Technology and Business Governance, page 33 UN1, pages as having significant risk for incidents of child labor, Improving Lives, pages 64–68 64–68 and measures taken to contribute to the effective UN5, pages abolition of child labor. 67–68 Forced and Compulsory Labor HR7 Operations and significant suppliers identified Technology and Business Governance, page 33 UN1, pages as having significant risk for incidents of forced Improving Lives, page 64–68 64–68 or compulsory labor, and measures to contribute UN4, page 65 to the elimination of all forms of forced or compulsory labor. Security Practices HR8 Percentage of security personnel trained in the Improving Lives, page 64–68 UN1, pages organization’s policies or procedures concerning 64–68 aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations. Assessment HR10 Percentage and total number of operations Improving Lives, page 64–68 UN1, pages that have been subject to human rights reviews 64–68 and/or impact assessments. *Unless otherwise noted (partially disclosed), all standard disclosures are reported fully. **United Nations Global Compact Principles 2011 Corporate Social Responsibility and Sustainability Report 96 BUSINESS PROFILE 3 S tak eho l d er E n g ag e m e n t 11 T e c h n o lo g y a n d busi n ess G OV E R N A NC E 25 commitment to sustainable agriculture 38 P R O Du c i n g m ore 40 Standard Disclosures: performance indicators*, cont. c o n servi n g m ore 47 i m provi n g l ives 62 GRI Index 89 Labor Practices and Decent Work G R I I N D I CATO R L I N K / PAG E R E F E R E N C E / N OT E S U N GCP** Employment LA1 Total workforce by employment type, employment Partially disclosed. contract, and region, broken down by gender Improving Lives, page 79 LA2 Total number and rate of new employee hires and Partially disclosed. employee turnover by age group, gender, and region. Improving Lives, pages 79–80 Occupational Health and Safety LA7 Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, Partially disclosed. UN1, pages and absenteeism, and number of work related Technology and Business Governance, page 34 81–83 fatalities by region and by gender. Improving Lives, pages 81–88 LA8 Education, training, counseling, prevention, and Improving Lives, pages 68, 81–84 UN1, pages 68, risk-control programs in place to assist workforce 81–83 members, their families, or community members regarding serious diseases. Training and Education LA10 Average hours of training per year per employee Partially disclosed. UN1, pages by gender, and by employee category. Stakeholder Engagement, pages 16–17 64–68 Technology and Business Governance, page 31 Improving Lives, pages 64–68 LA11 Programs for skills management and lifelong Partially disclosed. learning that support the continued employability Stakeholder Engagement, page 12 of employees and assist them in managing career endings. LA12 Percentage of employees receiving regular Partially disclosed. performance and career development reviews, Improving Lives, page 80 by gender. Diversity and Equal Opportunity LA13 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown Partially disclosed. UN6, pages of employees per employee category according Improving Lives, page 80 69-71 to gender, age group, minority group membership, and other indicators of diversity. *Unless otherwise noted (partially disclosed), all standard disclosures are reported fully. **United Nations Global Compact Principles 2011 Corporate Social Responsibility and Sustainability Report 97 BUSINESS PROFILE 3 S tak eho l d er E n g ag e m e n t 11 T e c h n o lo g y a n d busi n ess G OV E R N A NC E 25 commitment to sustainable agriculture 38 P R O Du c i n g m ore 40 Standard Disclosures: performance indicators*, cont. c o n servi n g m ore 47 i m provi n g l ives 62 GRI Index 89 Society G R I I N D I CATO R L I N K / PAG E R E F E R E N C E / N OT E S U N GCP** Employment SO1 Percentage of operations with implemented local Partially disclosed. UN1, page 68 community engagement, impact assessments, Stakeholder Engagement, pages 12, 19, 22–24 UN8, page 45 and development programs. Producing More, page 45 UN9, page 45 Improving Lives, page 68 SO10 Prevention and mitigation measures implemented Technology and Business Governance, pages 31, 34 UN1, pages 39, in operations with significant potential or actual Commitment to Sustainable Agriculture, page 39 81–83 negative impacts on local communities. UN8, pages 39, Producing More, page 46 46, 48 Conserving More, page 48 UN9, pages Improving Lives, pages 81–84 39, 46 Corruption SO2 Percentage and total number of business units Technology and Business Governance, pages 31–32, 37 UN10, pages analyzed for risks related to corruption. 31–32 SO3 Percentage of employees trained in organization’s Technology and Business Governance, pages 31–32, 37 UN10, pages anti-corruption policies and procedures. 31–32 SO4 Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption. Technology and Business Governance, page 37 Public Policy SO5 Public policy positions and participation in public Stakeholder Engagement, page 12 UN10, page 12 policy development and lobbying. www.monsanto.com/whoweare/Pages/political-disclosures.aspx *Unless otherwise noted (partially disclosed), all standard disclosures are reported fully. **United Nations Global Compact Principles 2011 Corporate Social Responsibility and Sustainability Report 98 BUSINESS PROFILE 3 S tak eho l d er E n g ag e m e n t 11 T e c h n o lo g y a n d busi n ess G OV E R N A NC E 25 commitment to sustainable agriculture 38 P R O Du c i n g m ore 40 Standard Disclosures: performance indicators*, cont. c o n servi n g m ore 47 i m provi n g l ives 62 GRI Index 89 Product Responsibility G R I I N D I CATO R L I N K / PAG E R E F E R E N C E / N OT E S U N GCP** Customer Health and Safety PR1 Life cycle stages in which health and safety Stakeholder Engagement, page 12 UN7, pages impacts of products and services are assessed Technology and Business Governance, pages 26–28, 35–36 26–27, 57 for improvement, and percentage of significant UN8, page 57 Conserving More, page 57 products and services categories subject to such procedures. Product and Service Labeling PR3 Type of product and service information required Technology and Business Governance, pages 28, 35–36 by procedures, and percentage of significant Improving Lives, pages 73–74 products and services subject to such information requirements. Marketing Communications PR6 Programs for adherence to laws, standards, Technology and Business Governance, pages 26–28 UN7, pages and voluntary codes related to marketing 26–27 communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship. Economic G R I I N D I CATO R L I N K / PAG E R E F E R E N C E / N OT E S U N GCP** Economic Performance EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed, 2011 Form 10-K (pages 44–96) at www.monsanto.com/investors/Documents/ including revenues, operating costs, employee Annual%20Report/Monsanto_2011_10-K.pdf compensation, donations and other community investments, retained earnings, and payments to capital providers and governments. EC3 Coverage of the organization’s defined benefit 2011 Form 10-K (Note 18) at www.monsanto.com/investors/Documents/ plan obligations. Annual%20Report/Monsanto_2011_10-K.pdf 2011 Proxy Statement (pages 62-65) at www.monsanto.com/investors/ Documents/Annual%20Report/Monsanto_2011_Proxy_Statement.pdf Indirect Economic Impacts EC8 Development and impact of infrastructure Stakeholder Engagement, pages 19–20, 22–24 UN1, page 68 investments and services provided primarily Producing More, page 45 UN8, page 45 for public benefit through commercial, in kind, Improving Lives, pages 68 and 75–78 UN9, page 45 or pro bono engagement. EC9 Understanding and describing significant indirect Improving Lives, page 63 economic impacts, including the extent of impacts. *Unless otherwise noted (partially disclosed), all standard disclosures are reported fully. **United Nations Global Compact Principles 2011 Corporate Social Responsibility and Sustainability Report 99 We welcome your feedback on our commitment to be a more sustainable and socially responsible company. You may contact us at: Monsanto Company 800 North Lindbergh Boulevard St. Louis, Missouri 63167 314.694.1000 CSRSReport.team@monsanto.com www.monsanto.com Trademarks and service marks owned by Monsanto and its subsidiaries are indicated by special type throughout this publication. All other trademarks are the property of their respective owners. Unless otherwise indicated by the context, references to Roundup and other glyphosate-based herbicides in this report mean herbicides containing the single active ingredient glyphosate; all such references exclude lawn-and-garden products. © 2012 Monsanto Company
