UN Global Compact Sappi became a signatory in 2008 In 2008, we signed the UN Global Compact, a CEO-led strategic policy initiative which The Compact has two principal objectives: mainstream the ten principles which gives signatories a platform for advancing their commitments to sustainability and businesses commit to and catalyse actions in support of broader UN goals, including corporate citizenship. the Millennium Development Goals. GRI G3.1 The ten principles to which businesses commit Our performance against these commitments indicators 1 Support and respect the protection of international At Sappi, we endorse the principles entrenched in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and conform to the core labour HR1 human rights within their sphere of influence. standards of the International Labour Organisation (ILO). We also conform to — and in many cases exceed — the labour HR2 conditions stipulated by the governments of the countries in which we operate. In 2009, we formally published a human HR3 rights policy. HR4 2 Make sure their own corporations are not complicit As stipulated above, we adhere to the standards of the ILO and legal labour conditions. In 2008, we stated that we would HR2 in human rights abuses. look into the protection of human rights in our procurement standards. This has now been included in our supplier policy. HR3 3 Freedom of association and the effective We recognise the right to freedom of association and collective bargaining. We consult with trade unions and employees on HR5 recognition of the right to collective bargaining. a wide variety of issues such as organisational change and training. In 2011, 63.5% of our employees in North America were LA3 unionised. In South Africa, unions represent approximately 52% of all employees employed in Sappi. Union representation LA4 in Europe is estimated at 65.8%. Disciplined behaviour is essential not only for individual well-being, but also to achieve our group goals and objectives. In each region, disciplinary codes ensure disciplinary procedures are applied consistently, while grievance policies entrenches the rights of employees, including the right to raise a grievance without fear of victimisation, the right to seek guidance and assistance from a member of the Human Resources department or their representative at any time and the right to appeal to a higher authority, without prejudice. 4 The elimination of all forms of forced and All labour is sourced on the open market. In rural areas, forest products companies like Sappi are often the only, or major, HR7 compulsory labour. employers in the region which makes the local population very dependent on the company. However, Sappi pays market‑related wages in accordance with local legislation. In Southern Africa, our plantations are 100% FSC-certified or controlled and this forest certification system stipulates the protection of indigenous rights. 5 The effective abolition of child labour. This principle is inherent in our labour policies across the group. HR6 6 The elimination of discrimination in respect of Sappi is an equal opportunity company. Gender diversity is increasing steadily throughout the group and in South Africa HR4 employment and occupation. we have employment equity targets to promote economic and social transformation among the previously disadvantaged. LA10 LA11 Sustainability Report 2011 UN Global Compact Index 87 UN Global Compact continued GRI G3.1 The ten principles to which businesses commit Our performance against these commitments indicators 7 Support a precautionary approach to The precautionary approach places the onus on Sappi to anticipate harm before it occurs and to take active steps to 4.13 environmental challenges. prevent any harm from occurring. We achieve this by: Conducting ongoing research into the impact of our activities and investigating methodologies to improve our performance at our research centres around the world Continuously monitoring our environmental performance Conducting thorough environment impact assessment before the start of any new activity. 8 Undertake initiatives to promote greater At Sappi we: EN01 environmental responsibility. EN02 Sponsor several environment-related publications accessible to the general reader. EN03 Provide schools with extensive environmental educational material. In South Africa, the SappiWWF TreeRoutes Partnership EN04 aims to protect ecologically sensitive areas while establishing sustainable business ventures for communities that help EN05 them to understand and respect the value of these ecologically sensitive areas. In this region, we also sponsor the Sappi Frog and River Meander Exhibit – the story of a river: at the Two Oceans Aquarium and the Sappi Birdlife SA Birding Big EN06 Day 2011, a national awareness drive for birding. EN07 EN08 In North America, we play an active role in Living Lands and Waters, a non-profit, environmental organisation focused on cleaning up America’s great rivers and forest restoration. In this region, we work to make forest certification more EN09 accessible to farmers. EN10 EN11 Sappi Fine Paper Europe supported a tree-planting project (some 350,000 trees) in Ethiopia in support of the work of the WeForest organisation (www.weforest.org). EN12 EN13 In 2011, we improved our score (based on our carbon disclosure and mitigation strategies) on the South African Carbon EN14 Disclosure Project (CDP) from 75 to 80 points out of a possible 100 points. EN15 We also signed the 2 degree climate challenge. EN16 Sustainability Report 2011 UN Global Compact Index 88 UN Global Compact continued GRI G3.1 The ten principles to which businesses commit Our performance against these commitments indicators 9 Encourage the development and diffusion of Our research and development initiatives are focused on technical improvement of processes and products, EN17 environmentally friendly technologies. and on the development of environmentally friendly technologies. It makes sense from both an economic and environmental standpoint to aggressively manage our raw materials and energy usage. For example, while a typical mill may use large quantities of fresh water, this water is re-used, often several times in the process, before it is treated and returned to the environment. Likewise, sources or air emissions are captured and either consumed in the process or scrubbed by pollution control equipment. Many of our mills are nearly energy self-sufficient and derive the majority of their energy from renewable, rather than fossil fuel sources. Globally, in 2011, our use of renewable energy stood at just over 47% 10 Work against corruption in all its forms, Our commitment to combating corruption is embodied in our Code of Ethics which gives very clear guidelines SO2 including extortion and bribery. on the behaviour expected of Sappi employees, suppliers and contractors at all times. The Code is reinforced by independently operated Hotlines, which guarantee callers complete anonymity. All calls are followed up and reports are submitted to the Audit Committee on a quarterly basis. Refer to our 2011 Integrated Report for further details. We express our commitment to sustainability not only in the decisions we make every day in running our business, but also through public forums such as the United Nations Global Compact. The Compact sets benchmarks which help us to improve our governance systems and our performance in terms of Prosperity, People and Planet. Ralph Boëttger Chief Executive Officer, Sappi Limited Sustainability Report 2011 UN Global Compact Index 89
