Sustainability Report 2011 Planning for the future VISION To be a leading oil refiner and oil products marketing enterprise in Greece and the wider region. CORPORATE MISSION To conduct our business operations so as to increase the company’s corporate value for To meet our customers’ needs responsibly and effectively, while expanding our To function reliably, swiftly and flexibly in our relationships with our people, Sustainability the benefit of all stakeholders -shareholders, personnel, customers, suppliers, associates and partners, as well as the local and greater communityapplying technological and share in the domestic market. customers, suppliers, and the general public, by making use of practices that demonstrate responsibility and integrity, as well as respect for people and the Report commercial innovations. environment. 2011 STRATEGIC GOALS Maximising the profitability Maximisation and optimisation of Striving for the highest standards of the refinery and overall financial sales, by effectively marketing the of Health and Safety, Environmental performance. refinery products and exploiting protection and Quality, through the opportunities in our three markets application of technical, operational (domestic, aviation-marine and organisational innovations and bunkering, and export), improvements to the refinery. for achieving the best possible profitability. OUR VALUES 1 Efficiency 2 Responsibility towards • Achieving set targets. • Providing a safe, stimulating and • Our personnel • Creating value for reciprocal workplace. • Our shareholders shareholders and society. • Continuous improvement. • Our customers. • Protecting the environment. • Promoting learning and innovation. • Our associates and partners • Servicing customers’ needs. • Society. 3 Social responsibility 4 Integrity • Respect for people and their • Priority for Health and Safety. • Respect for laws and regulations • Honest and open communication. needs. • Ensuring that the company is an • Applying business ethics and • Credibility and propriety in all • Respect for the environment active and responsible corporate the principles of corporate company relations. and commitment to sustainable citizen, respecting the local governance. growth. community and society as a whole. OUR PRINCIPLES Respect for our people Respect for the environment Transparency We recognise the value of our people We recognise the value of sustainable We operate professionally and responsibly, and we promote their personal development and the value of our natural strictly implementing the principles of business development, while offering competitive environment, and commit ourselves to the ethics and corporate governance. terms of employment, within a working implementation of effective operational environment of respect and mutual trust. procedures and technology for its We respect human and labour rights and protection. give first priority to workplace Health and Safety assurance. 40 YEARS MOTOR OIL The growth of MOTOR OIL: Important milestones 2009 2011 2001 2005 Certification of the Quality Management MOTOR OIL achieves again all-time 2007 Increase of the sales and fuel production records company’s equity The Hydrocracker System, according to ISO 9001:2008. (10.8 and 9.4 million MΤ, respectively). capital through public Complex is offer of shares and commissioned, Registration of the 1996 company in the Increase of the Completion of the construction of listing on the Athens facilitating the 5th gas turbine in refinery’s power Stock Exchange. production of “clean Hellenic Register participation in the 1972 Purchase of 50% of of EMAS (Ecoshare capital of OFC cogeneration plant, which now has a fuels” conforming total capacity of 85MW. the company’s shares Management and Audit AVIATION FUEL 1978 Installation of a new to European Union Commissioning of the by Saudi Arabian Scheme). SERVICES S.A. from 2003 Gas Turbine in the specifications for 2005 Construction completion of 1984 refinery. It comprises a Oil Company (Saudi Power Plant. and 2009. 28.0% to 92.06%. Crude Oil Distillation Commissioning Aramco). Issue of the KORINTHOS POWER S.A power Unit, a base oils of the Catalytic Certification of the first voluntary Entry into natural gas plant. Construction of a Upgrading of the Lubes Repurchase of Saudi production unit and Reformer Unit Relocation of the Head Quality Management Environmental trading in collaboration Power Plant, burning Vacuum Distillation Aramco’s stake in the Certification of Health and Safety port facilities. (further processing of Office to a modern System of the company, Statement, conforming with MYTILINEOS S.A. fuel gas. Unit. company. Management System, according to naphtha for gasoline Offices Complex in according to with EU Regulation production). Maroussi. ISO 9001:2000. EMAS ER 761/2001. OHSAS 18001:2007. 1975 1980 Commissioning of the 1993 2000 Production of fuels 2002 2004 2006 2008 2010 Commissioning of the new 60,000 barrels/day Certification of the Construction Catalytic Cracking Unit ISO 9002 quality conforming to EU Acquisition of 100% of Commissioning of the refinery’s Chemical Certification of Crude Distillation Unit, and of two additional completion of the (for converting fuel oil certification for the specifications for 2000, the retail oil marketing new Truck Loading Laboratory, according Health and Safety Sulphur Recovery Units, of a combined 170 ΜΤ/ 100,000 barrels/day to higher added value entire range of the with the addition of company AVIN OIL. Terminal at the refinery. to ISO 17025:2005 Management System, day sulphur production capacity. Crude Distillation products). company’s commercial new units and the according to OHSAS Complex. and manufacturing upgrading of the Certification of 18001:2007. Completion of the acquisition of the shares of activities. Naphtha Reformer the Environmental the companies SHELL HELLAS S.A. (renamed to Construction into a continuous 103Management System, Joint Venture Coral S.A.), and SHELL GAS A.E.B.E.Y. (renamed completion of the 1.5 octane number catalyst according to ISO Agreement with to Coral GAS A.E.B.E.Y.), as well as of 49% of the million cubic metres regeneration unit. 14001:2004. MYTILINEOS S.A. aviation fuels trading company. tank farm. for the construction New Central Control and operation of MOTOR OIL achieves all-time sales and fuel Room and installation the KORINTHOS production records (9.7 and 8.6 million MΤ, of a Distributed POWER S.A. natural respectively). Control System. gas combined cycle Power Plant, which Certification of will be located within the Environmental the premises of the Management System, MOTOR OIL refinery. according to ISO 14001:1996. Creating Value with outward-looking attitudes and responsible growth 2011 was a year full of challenges, both for the global and the Greek economy. Innovation, outward-looking attitudes and investments are key to the country’s development and the MOTOR OIL Group is fully aligned with these elements both in business philosophy and in practice. Our principles and the respect for our country and our people are non-negotiable. We care for our people, invest for health and safety and continuously improve our environmental performance. We contribute to the society in a sustainable and consistent manner and help our fellow-citizens lead a better life. In this difficult economic climate, MOTOR OIL has proved its great strength by setting new, all-time fuel sales and production records. 2011 was a year of maturing of the investments and acquisitions made in the previous years. It was the first year we saw a full-year’s yield coming from the new Crude Distillation Unit in the area of investments, as well as from Shell’s activities in Greece in the area of acquisitions. Despite the pressure in the fuels market, our increase of domestic market share, through the retail networks of Coral and Avin Oil, is indicative of our successful strategy. We have put special emphasis on our employees’ training, while at the same time we constantly provide a modern business environment, thus responding to various technological and labor challenges. Moreover, we have further enhanced Health and Safety through targeted investments, continuous training programs and by adopting good practices, among others. Overall, we have invested 15.8 million euros in projects and programs relating to workplace safety. We have adopted new techniques and completed investments, aiming at markedly reducing our environmental footprint. MOTOR OIL has developed an integrated Environmental Management System, which aims at the company’s constant improvement in terms of energy efficiency and emission control and, as a result, at the reduction of its environmental and energy-related footprint. We have invested in social responsibility projects by financially supporting cultural organizations and unions, sports events, social care bodies, educational organizations, as well as the work of municipalities in the vicinity of the Refinery. The “Sustainability Report 2011”, you are holding in your hands, is the tenth consecutive edition and is indicative of MOTOR OIL Group’s firm commitment to implement best practices based on the principles of the Corporate Social Responsibility and Corporate Governance, as well as the principles of sustainable development. MOTOR OIL Group practices responsible entrepreneurship, aiming at the constant support of our overall contribution to society at large. This year is also of a special, symbolic value to the Group, as it has been 40 years since MOTOR OIL begun its operations. During all these years, we have shown business consistency, based on the vision and the strategy we designed. With pride and optimism for the future, we will vigorously continue with investments and with social contribution projects, ensuring a sustainable growth and development for the benefit our all our stakeholders. Motor Oil Group Management Contents 39 77 i Vision, Mission, Strategic Targets, Values and Principles ii Key Group data for 2011 RESPONSIBILITY TOWARDS RESPONSIBILITY 2 The growth of MOTOR OIL: OUR EMPLOYEES FOR THE ENVIRONMENT Important milestones 5 Management Message 40 Human resources management 78 Environmental management 6 Contents system 80 Environmental impact management 9 On the Sustainability Report 2011 41 Equal opportunities and human rights 81 Environmental investments and 103 42 Labour relations Relations with expenses trade unions 83 Best Available Techniques 43 Basic employment data 84 Energy-saving and climate change 46 Remuneration System 91 Air quality management SOCIAL 11 46 Additional discretionary benefits 95 Liquid waste management 49 Education and training 97 Solid waste management Recycling RESPONSIBILITY 98 Water management 105 Social solidarity 99 Noise management 110 Culture IDENTITY AND CORPORATE 100 Protection of the marine environment 114 Education RESPONSIBILITY 100 Refinery communication with local 116 Environmental protection Α. stakeholders Infrastructures 101 Compliance with environmental 55 12 Profile of the Motor Oil Group 118 Sports 14 Refinery legislation 123 International action 16 2011 Results 123 Entrepreneurship 18 Corporate governance 22 Participation in international-national HEALTH AND SAFETY agencies and networks 23 Awards 56 Health and safety management Β. 24 Managing corporate responsibility 26 Economic benefits to society Social framework 59 Safety indices 60 Health and safety investments 124 63 Inspections GLOBAL COMPACT: product 64 Procedures COMMUNICATION ON 28 Responsible growth and investment 67 Planned shutdowns New projects PROGRESS 2011 31 Responsibility for the environment, 68 The REACH Regulation health and safety 68 Emergency response plans 125 32 Responsible quality management 69 Port installations safety 34 Customer service Respect for the 70 Safeguarding workforce health customer 71 Education, Briefing and Collaborations 36 Responsible communication with stakeholders GRI COMPLIANCE LEVEL 11 On the Sustainability Report 2011 The Sustainability Report 2011 is the tenth such record of the annual activities of the MOTOR OIL Group (1 January 2011 31 December 2011), reflecting the company’s vision, strategic objectives, values and principles. The primary concern of the Report is to provide comprehensive information for all stakeholders in the Group: workforce, customers, suppliers, shareholders, investors, creditors and local communities. The Report underlines the Group’s sincere commitment to the principles of Corporate Social Responsibility. As an active member of the community, the MOTOR OIL Group strives to achieve sustainable development and sound management, and in its everyday operations responds to environmental challenges and the needs of society as a whole. The structure of the Sustainability Report 2011 is designed to cover all aspects of corporate responsibility. It focuses, therefore, on actions demonstrating respect for human values and the environment, the implementation of an effective health and safety policy, and support for efforts to achieve sustainable social development. The various sections of the Report describe in detail the Group’s activities, with presentations of the latest quantitative figures and data. The terms ‘Group’ and ‘MOTOR OIL Group’ refer to the MOTOR OIL Group and its constituent subsidiary Groups and companies, Avin Oil, Coral, Coral Gas and OFC. The term ‘company’ refers to the parent company ‘MOTOR OIL’; the terms ‘other companies’ and ‘remaining companies’ refer to the aforesaid set of companies, while the term ‘commercial companies’ refers, once again, to the aforesaid set of companies, not however including OFC. Global Reporting Initiative UN Global Compact The selection of topics for the Sustainability Report 2011 was based on the G3.1 guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI), and on the ten principles of the United Nations Global Compact. At the end of the Report there is a summary table matching the contents of the Report to the GRI indicators and Global Compact principles. In this sense the Environmental and Social Report 2011 also serves as a Communication on Progress for the Global Compact, setting out the way in which its ten principles have been implemented. Supplementary data can be found in the Annual Financial Report 2011 and the Environmental Statement 2011, as well as at the company’s website, www.moh.gr. Communication The MOTOR OIL Sustainability Report 2011 has been edited and compiled by the Group’s Communications, Corporate Affairs and Corporate Social Responsibility Department. We wish to extend our heartfelt thanks to all other Divisions and Departments whose contributions of data have allowed us to produce a comprehensive Report. We welcome all views and observations on the structure and content of the Sustainability Report 2011 your input will help us to keep improving its quality. Please contact us on 210 809 4004, or send your comments to csr@moh.gr 1. IDENTITY AND CORPORATE 1. IDENTITY AND CORPORATE 12 RESPONSIBILITY RESPONSIBILITY 13 IDENTITY AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY We produce energy and create value reliably and responsibly Since 1972, when MOTOR OIL began operating as an oil refiner and oil products marketing company, it has always functioned with responsibility and integrity, aiming at sustainable profitability and development in a socially responsible manner. Combining a progressive approach to corporate responsibility with an efficient business model, competent people and management, MOTOR OIL is on a course of continual growth and value creation for all stakeholders, while it effectively fulfils its social role, enhancing its contribution to society and paving the way for its future development. Its Corporate Vision and Mission provide the framework within which the planning and 10.8 implementation of MOTOR OIL’s dynamic growth is achieved. Moreover, its operation is founded on a set of firm Principles and Values that underpin its business activity. 2011 was a particularly important year for the Group, with the maturing of investments and million tons acquisitions made in recent years, and the achievement of very satisfactory financial results. MOTOR OIL SALES HIT HISTORIC The new Crude Distillation Unit was brought on line to operate on a twelve-month basis in 2011 in May 2010. The Unit has a capacity of 60,000 barrels per day and creates new scope for NEW RECORD optimizing supplies of crude oil and raw materials, as well as extra flexibility in the refinery’s production planning. INTENSE EXPORT ORIENTATION MATURING OF INVESTMENTS Also, the acquisition of Shell’s activities in Greece, completed in June 2010, meant that the Group took over the highly profitable network of Shell stations, allowing it to increase its market share. AND ACQUISITIONS INCREASE IN SHARE OF DOMESTIC At the same time MOTOR OIL achieved record sales and record levels of fuel production (10.8 MARKET, OWING TO PERFORMANCE million and 9.4 million tons respectively), recording exports, including aviation and shipping fuel, amounting to 7.3 million tons. OF AVIN OIL AND CORAL NETWORKS 499.1 million euros THE SOCIAL PRODUCT 1. IDENTITY AND CORPORATE 1. IDENTITY AND CORPORATE 14 RESPONSIBILITY RESPONSIBILITY 15 MOTOR OIL facilities at Agioi Theodoroi, Corinth. On • Finally, the Group is active in the aviation fuel services 30 March 2012 KORINTHOS POWER S.Α. received sector through the two 46.03% stakes held by parent its commercial operating license. The Group also owns company MOTOR OIL and subsidiary Avin Oil a 70% stake in ELECTROPARAGOGI SOUSSAKI respectively, in OFC AVIATION FUEL SERVICES S.A. S.A., which since March 2010 has held a license from OFC is the company which constructed and operates the Ministry of the Environment, Energy and Climate the existing, fully automated system for supplying Change to generate up to 440MW of electrical energy. aviation fuel to the Eleftherios Venizelos Airport, Athens, as well as the fuel storage facilities at the same airport. • The Group has already established a presence in the natural gas market through M & M NATURAL GAS, in The following table lists the subsidiary and affiliated which the parent company MOTOR OIL holds an equal companies, in which the parent company MOTOR stake with MYTILINAIOS S.A. Group of Businesses. OIL participates, together with the direct or indirect In February 2011, M & M NATURAL GAS received a percentage of its holdings. Further information about natural gas supply license from the Ministry of the the companies (ownership structure, nature of business, Environment, Energy and Climate Change, on the basis registered offices, life of company, etc.) can be found in of which it acquired the right to sell natural gas under MOTOR OIL’s Annual Financial Report 2011. the provisions of Law 3428/2005. The license is valid for 20 years. Α1. Profile of the MOTOR OIL Group NAME ACTIVITY PERCENTAGE SHARE With an average workforce of 1,928 people, a consolidated turnover in 2011 equivalent to approximately 4.1% of DIRECT INDIRECT Greece’s GDP, and consolidated total assets of 2.6 billion euros, MOTOR OIL Group is one of the main pillars of the national economy. It plays a leading role in the sectors of crude oil refining and marketing of petroleum products in Avin Oil S.Α. Marketing of petroleum products 100% Greece, as well as the greater Eastern Mediterranean region, supplying its customers with a wide range of high quality products. Coral S.A. Marketing of petroleum products 100% Coral GAS S.A. Marketing of liquefied petroleum gas 100% OFC AVIATION FUEL Aviation Fuel Supply Systems 46.03% 46.03% 4.1% of GDP SERVICES S.A. MAKREON S.A. Marketing of fuels 100% CONSOLIDATED TURNOVER IN 2011 ERMES S.A. Marketing of fuels 100% ΜΥRΤΕΑ S.A. Marketing of fuels 100% The parent company MOTOR OIL was founded in 1970 domestic market share, relying on the liquid fuel retail Coral FINANCE HELLAS S.A. Provision of Financial Advisory 100% and its refinery was first commissioned in 1972. It has networks of its subsidiaries Avin Oil and Coral S.A. (in liquidation) and Accounting Services been listed on the Athens Stock Exchange since 2001 (formerly SHELL HELLAS S.A.). Together, the two Μ AND Μ NATURAL GAS S.A. Marketing of natural gas 50% and it is included in the index of the 20 companies with networks consist of a total of approximately 1,250 the highest capitalization (FTSE/A.S.E. 20), in the General service stations selling liquid fuels, accounting for about SHELL & MOH S.A. Aviation Fuel Services 49% Index, the MSCI (Morgan Stanley Capital International) 27% of the domestic market. 2011 was the first fiscal AVIATION FUELS S.A. Small Cap Index and other sector indices. year, in which the contribution of the Coral S.A. and KORINTHOS POWER S.A. Production and marketing of electrical energy 35% Coral Gas S.A. Group activities was represented on a • The refining of crude oil and marketing of oil products 12-month basis in the financial results of the MOTOR ATHENS AIRPORT FUEL PIPELINE Supply of fuel via pipeline to E.Venizelos Airport 16% COMPANY S.Α. are the main activities of the MOTOR OIL Group, OIL Group. whose refinery is one of the most technologically HELLENIC FEDERATION OF INDEPENElectrical energy 16.7% DENT ELECTRICITY COMPANIES sophisticated, complex and flexible (in terms of • The Group has laid the foundations for its presence in ESAI production processes) refineries to be found anywhere the electricity generation sector, through a 35% stake RODOS-ALEXANDROUPOLIS S.A. OIL Oil product installations (dormant) 37.49% in Europe or elsewhere. acquired by the parent company MOTOR OIL S.A. PRODUCT FACILITIES in KORINTHOS POWER S.A. (the other 65% stake • Over the last few years, vertical integration of its is held by MYTILINAIOS S.A. Group of Businesses). ELECTROPARAGOGI SOUSSAKI S.A. Commerce (dormant) 40% 30% business has allowed the Group to achieve further KORINTHOS POWER’s main asset is the 436.6MW NUR-MOH HELIOTHERMAL S.A. Operation of heliothermal power stations (dormant) 50% development of its activities and an expansion of its natural gas combined cycle plant, located within the 1. IDENTITY AND CORPORATE 1. IDENTITY AND CORPORATE 16 RESPONSIBILITY RESPONSIBILITY 17 Characteristics of the refinery • Processing capacity: 185,000 barrels of crude oil per international agencies as the American Petroleum stream day (BSD). Institute (API), the European Automobile Manufacturers • The refinery produces all types of fuel and is one of Association (ACEA) and the United States Army and the most contemporary and complex in Europe, with Navy. Hydrocracker and Catalytic Cracking units and a 10.4 • It possesses a power and steam cogeneration unit, rating on the Nelson Complexity Index. which now has a capacity of 85MW following the recent • It produces refined fuels (gasoline and automotive addition of a fifth gas turbine. diesel) in accordance with the EU specifications for • It uses natural gas as a fuel and as a raw material for the 2009. production of hydrogen. • It is certified as follows: ISO 9001:2008 for quality; • Storage Capacity-2,500,000 m3 / Crude Oil: 1,000,000 ISO 14001:2004 and ΕΜΑS III ER 1221/2009 for the m3 / Intermediate & Finished Products: 1,500,000 m3. environment; OHSAS 18001:2007 for health and safety; • It has modern port facilities for tanker docking, suitable ISO 17025:2005 for its chemical laboratory, and ΕΝ for tankers of up to 450,000 tons DWT, which can 12591:2009 for asphalt. This is a combination found at serve more than 3,000 vessels annually. very few European refineries. • It has a modern truck loading terminal, which can serve • It is the only refinery in Greece with a unit producing 220 road tankers per day. base oils and finished lubricants, approved by such The operation of a refinery requires auxiliary supplies of electric power, water and steam. The refinery’s requirements in terms of electricity are met by the five gas turbines of the Power Cogeneration Plant, which make it energy self-sufficient. High-pressure steam is provided by the four steam-producing boilers, as well as Α2. Refinery the steam generated by certain units within the refinery. The sea water desalination units provide sufficient water The parent company refinery, which represents the core of the Group’s activities, is located in Agioi Theodoroi, of suitable quality to feed the boilers and fully meet the Corinth, about 70 km outside Athens. The Refinery with its ancillary plants and offsite facilities forms the largest needs of the refinery, thus saving significant quantities of privately owned industrial complex in Greece, and is considered as one of the most modern refineries in Europe. fresh water a valuable natural resource. The refinery is The complexity of Motor Oil’s refinery stands at 10.4 according to Nelson’s Complexity Index. connected to the national natural gas network, allowing it to use natural gas as a raw material for the production of hydrogen and as a fuel for its thermal and energy needs. The refinery has the capacity to process various types of has funded two investment cycles. The period 2003-2005 This grants it valuable flexibility in selecting the optimal crude oil and manufactures a wide range of oil products. saw investment in the Hydrocracker complex, while the mix of raw materials and fuels, while further improving It supplies commercial oil companies in Greece, but the period 2008-2010 saw the construction of the Crude the refinery’s environmental performance. bulk of its production is sold abroad. Moreover, it is the Distillation Unit (CDU), with a capacity of 60,000 barrels only refinery that produces base oils in Greece. Refinery per day. Liquid waste is collected and treated in the Industrial products meet the European Union specifications, which Waste Water Treatment Plant and the Urban Liquid came into force on 1 January 2009, as well as the most MOTOR OIL exploits the versatility of the refinery Waste Treatment Plant. stringent international standards. (NCI: 10.4) to manufacture products with high added The refinery has a modern Truck Loading Terminal, which value, adjusting the final product mix to market needs, significantly strengthens the competitive position of The company’s total investment expenditure since ensuring better distribution prices and achieving better MOTOR OIL in the southern Greek market. 2001 (the year it was first listed on the Athens Stock refining margins than other composite refineries in the Exchange) amounts to 1.05 billion euros, most of which Mediterranean. 1. IDENTITY AND CORPORATE 1. IDENTITY AND CORPORATE 18 RESPONSIBILITY RESPONSIBILITY 19 New Crude Distillation Unit MOTOR OIL SALES BY PRODUCT GROUP In May 2010, the new Crude Distillation Unit was The products of the new unit (pure LPG, naphtha, Jet and commissioned, completing an important cycle of the Diesel produced to special specifications, as well as fuel (THOUSAND METRIC TONS) company’s organic growth. oil, all of which is used as a raw material in the existing 10,756 conversion plants) meet strict European standards and 9,321 9,511 9,742 10,000 The operational needs of the unit created 30 new are produced with the required flexibility to meet market positions, while more than 2,000 people were employed needs. The design of the new unit laid particular emphasis 8,000 Asphalt during the construction phase, involving 2.5 million manon energy-saving, with steam turbines installed to exploit Fuel oil hours of activity, and an additional 500,000 man-hours of waste energy, all thermal flows being used for pre-heating, 6,000 Automotive diesel Heating oil activity during the engineering design stage. and a special pre-distillation unit being installed to reduce Aviation fuels heat consumption. At the same time, two new Sulphur 4,000 Gasoline The unit, representing a total investment of 200 million Recovery units of 99.9% efficiency were commissioned. LPG 2,000 euros, consolidates the company’s competitive position Lubricants in the market and improves its profitability, increasing 0 Other the refinery’s annual capacity by around 25%, while it has 2008 2009 2010 2011 a nominal processing capacity of 60,000 barrels of crude every day. At the same time the introduction of cuttingedge technology ensures optimization of the refinery’s mix of crude oil and raw materials, bringing extra flexibility to the production process and better resource management. • The Group’s main financial results were significantly enhanced. The substantial increase in turnover is due to CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL the increase in the price of oil products as well as the RESULTS (MILLION EUROS) increased volume of sales. The increase in profits before Α3. 2011 Results taxes, interest payments and depreciation (EBITDA) can be attributed to the improvement in refinery 8,739 margins, thanks to the 12-month operation of the new 2011 was a particularly important year for the MOTOR OIL Group in terms of return on investments and acquisitions Crude Distillation Unit in 2011, in combination with the 6,184 340 made in recent years, and in terms of achieving very satisfactory financial results. increased sales volume both domestically and abroad, 5,505 and demonstrates the technological superiority of the 238 212 MOTOR OIL refinery in comparison with its counter191 3,939 • MOTOR OIL sales have been rising steadily since 2006, parts in Europe. 165 143 MOTOR OIL SALES BY MARKET reaching 10.8m tons in 2011, compared to 9.7m in 2010 108 and marking a historic new record. Its products are (THOUSAND METRIC TONS) • MOTOR OIL’s market share remains consistently above 78 delivered to the three markets in which it operates 25%, and in 2011 increased significantly to 29.5%, which (domestic market, exports and the shipping/aviation underlines the quality and efficiency of the retail net2008 2009 2010 2011 sector) through a powerful sales network and with 10,756 works of Avin Oil and Coral, which did much to boost 9,511 9,742 the help of long-standing relationships with customers. 10,000 9,321 sales in the domestic market. Turnover EBITDA Net profit after tax The quantities supplied to each of these markets are 8,000 determined by the relevant demand, but also by the 6,000 MOTOR OIL’s DOMESTIC MARKET SHARE company’s aim of supplying its products to the markets 4,000 that offer the highest margins. The sales figures show 2008 2009 2010 2011 the company’s robust export orientation, which became 2,000 Fuels 27.5% 27.1% 27.4% 32.0% even more pronounced in 2011: foreign sales (including 0 shipping/aviation sales) to more than 45 countries Shipping/Aviation 21.4% 20.3% 24.2% 23.2% 2008 2009 2010 2011 accounted for 68% of all sales in 2011, having increased Lubricants 47.7% 37.4% 36.6% 34.8% by 12% compared to the 2010 figures. Domestic market Public Power External market Shipping/Aviation TOTAL DOMESTIC 25.9% 25.4% 26.6% 29.5% Corporation MARKET 1. IDENTITY AND CORPORATE 1. IDENTITY AND CORPORATE 20 RESPONSIBILITY RESPONSIBILITY 21 Composition of Board of Directors NAME BOARD POSITION MEMBER IDENTITY* Vardis J.Vardinoyannis Chairman and Managing Director Executive John V.Vardinoyannis Vice Chairman Executive John Kosmadakis Deputy Managing Director Executive Petros Tzannetakis Deputy Managing Director Executive Demosthenes N.Vardinoyannis Member Non-executive Nikos Th.Vardinoyannis Member Non-executive George Alexandridis Member Non-executive Theofanis Voutsaras Member Executive Michael Steiakakis Member Executive Konstantinos Maraveas Member Non-executive / Independent Antonios Theoharis Member Non-executive / Independent * In accordance with Law 3016/2002 Α4. Corporate governance MOTOR OIL’s management and control is based on the current principles of good corporate governance, as prescribed by legislation and the relevant regulations, and by other international codes of best practice and auditing standards. Its strategy and daily operations are deployed within the framework of corporate governance principles, which govern issues such as: • the appropriate structure of its Board of Directors, • respect for, equal treatment and protection of the interests and the rights of all shareholders, • compliance with legal and regulatory provisions, • transparency in decision-making procedures, • the reliability and adequacy of all disseminated information, regarding the Group’s strategy and financial results, or its financial transactions, • the management of personnel and remuneration matters, and • the identification, assessment and control of all inherent risks. Two committees, established in 1996, operate within the Directors within the competences assigned to it by The Board of Directors of the parent company has administrative body of the company, elected by the framework of the Board of Directors: the Compensation the latter. It deals with staffing issues and recommends prepared and approved an elaborate Code of Corporate Annual General Assembly of Shareholders and operating Committee and the Internal Audit Committee. policies on salaries, benefits and incentives for Governance, published in March 2011, setting out the in accordance with the provisions of Law 3016/2002 management and staff, also overseeing implementation of framework for the company’s key areas of operation on Governance, Codified Law 2190/1920, as revised and The three-member Compensation Committee comprises the said policies. and the Corporate Governance Best Practices it currently in force, and the company’s own Articles of the following non-executive Board members: has adopted. The code in question conforms to the Association. The members of the Board represent a • G. Alexandridis, Chairman Similarly, the three-member Internal Audit Committee company’s principles and values, as well as its tradition diversity of knowledge, qualifications and experience to • K. Maraveas, Member comprises the following non-executive Board members: and ownership status. In 2010 the Board included in the match the corporate objectives of the company and to • A. Theoharis, Member • G. Alexandridis, Chairman Annual Financial Report for the first time a Statement of ensure the right balance of executive and non-executive • K. Maraveas, Member Corporate Governance, in accordance with the provisions members. The Compensation Committee advises the Board of • A. Theoharis, Member of Law 3873/2010. The Board of Directors is the supreme 1. IDENTITY AND CORPORATE 1. IDENTITY AND CORPORATE 22 RESPONSIBILITY RESPONSIBILITY 23 The members of the Internal Audit Committee are appointed by the Ordinary General Assembly of The Internal Audit Committee is of considerable assistance to the Board of Directors in performing its Control and risk management systems Shareholders, in accordance with the provisions of duties, acting as recipient of all reports on audits carried Law 3693/2008, and all have substantial knowledge out by the company’s Internal Audit Department. The In respect of the operation of the company’s Internal Internal Audit Committee and approved in their entirety and experience in matters relating to financial reports, legal auditor or auditor’s office reports to the Committee Control and Risk Management ICRM Systems, by the Board of Directors. accounting and auditing. The proposal put by the Board on all matters relating to the progress and results of the in relation to the procedure for compiling financial of Directors to the General Assembly to appoint regular mandatory audit, submitting a special report on statements we should state that the MOTOR Finally, it is worth mentioning that even before its listing a legal auditor or auditor’s office is made at the any weaknesses in the internal audit system, particularly OIL financial reports system uses a sophisticated on the Athens Stock Exchange, the company met all recommendation of the Internal Audit Committee. Under any shortcomings found in procedures relating to the professional software package to produce reports to the the conditions laid down in Law 3016/2002, relating, for Article 34 of the company’s articles of association, the provision of financial information and the compilation of administration and to external users. example, to the Internal Audit Department and the Audit legal auditors may be re-appointed, but not for more than financial statements. and Compensation Committees. Furthermore, MOTOR five (5) consecutive years. Financial statements and other analyses are submitted OIL had ensured the proper balance of executive and The Internal Audit Department reports directly to the to the administration on a monthly basis, and compiled non-executive Board members even before Law 3016 In accordance with Law 3693/2008, the Internal Audit Board of Directors, and is supervised by the Internal in simple and consolidated form, in accordance with came into force. Each section of the MOTOR OIL Committee’s duties include, but are not limited to, the Audit Committee. The company’s independent internal the International Financial Reporting Standards, for Code of Corporate Governance (for example: Board following: audit system aims at ensuring compliance with the submission to the administration or for general of Directors, Remuneration Policy, General Assemblies, company’s procedures for managing financial and publication, under the current regulations, on a quarterly etc.) contains a general reference to the statutory, • monitoring the financial information procedures, operational matters, as well as at ensuring that issues basis. Both reports submitted to the administration regulatory and legal framework governing the operation • monitoring the effective operation of the Internal related to the efficient management of business risks are and to the public, contain all the necessary information of the area in question, followed by a brief description of Control and Risk Management systems, given proper attention. expected from an updated internal audit system, featuring the ‘corporate governance best practices’ adopted and • monitoring the proper function of the Internal Audit analyses of sales, costs and spending, operating profits and followed consistently by the company. Department, Lastly, the company’s financial statements are also audited other details. All reports to the administration contain • monitoring the course of regular mandatory audits of by independent chartered auditors, in compliance with its details for the current period, for purposes of comparison individual and consolidated financial reports, and statutory obligations. with the corresponding figures in the budget, as approved • monitoring of issues relating to the existence and by the Board of Directors, and with the figures for the maintenance of the objectivity and independence of the same period in the previous year. All published interim legal auditor. and annual financial statements are reviewed by the 1. IDENTITY AND CORPORATE 1. IDENTITY AND CORPORATE 24 RESPONSIBILITY RESPONSIBILITY 25 • Mediterranean Oil Industry Group (MOIG) is a regional In this context, MOTOR OIL: oil industry forum on the coordination of the industry • Continues to cooperate with the Applied Geochemistry in preventing marine pollution and in the preparedness Laboratory of the Geology Department, Patras for responding to major oil spill incidents in the University, for the determination of prevailing chemical Mediterranean Sea. conditions in the sea water in the refinery’s coastal zone. In addition, we support the academic community both • Cooperates with the Technical University of Crete in in carrying out primary research projects, and in applied the context of the European PROTEAS programme. research projects related to the health, safety and environmental protection of refining industry issues. Α6. Awards The Group’s work and significant activities have been recognized by the international and national business communities. MOTOR OIL has received a number of awards and distinctions, underlining the superb quality of its products and services, as well as the importance it attaches to meeting the needs of the community as efficiently as Α5. Participation in international-national agencies possible. and networks 2011 XRIMA Business Awards 1st prize in Best Company category. 2nd prize in Investor Relations category. MOTOR OIL supports international and national bodies, and is a member of: 3rd prize in Corporate Governance category. • The Global Compact Network Hellas (of which it became a founding member in 2008 when it endorsed the United True Leaders MOTOR OIL received an ICAP True Leaders award, as one Nations Global Compact). of the companies playing a leading role in developments • Τhe Hellenic Network for Corporate Social Responsibility (together with the companies Avin Oil and Coral). in Greek business. • The University of Cambridge Programme for Sustainability Leadership. Strongest Companies in Greece Avin was classified by ICAP among the high Credit Rating Classification companies in Greece. It is also a member of the following national and international business associations: Joint Inspection Group OFC was awarded for the fourth consecutive year with the JIG • The Hellenic Federation of Enterprises. “Certificate of Excellence”. • The Athens Chamber of Commerce and Industry, the Hellenic-American and Arab-Hellenic Chambers, as well as other regional Chambers. BRAVO Quality Net Foundation The company’s Annual Report 2010 received an award in the categories: • The Hellenic Association of Independent Power Producers. • Best approach to key issues. • The Union of Listed Companies. • Best approach to environmental performance issues. • Best and most balanced approach to the three areas Finance MOTOR OIL’s membership in the organizations listed products we produce. The conclusions of research Society Environment. below is prompted by its awareness that the rate of projects are evaluated and incorporated in our daily Aegean University Annual Report 2010 commended for successful application development of technology and science in the critical business practices in the most suitable manner, thus of GRI principles. area of environmental protection, as well as changes in further improving the company’s environmental 2010 XRIMA Business Awards 1st Prize in Investor Relations category. the legal framework governing this area, make it essential performance. to exchange views, experience and expertise with other Strongest Companies in Greece MOTOR OIL, Coral and Coral Gas were classified by ICAP among companies and agencies. • Oil Companies International Marine Forum (OCIMF) is the high Credit Rating Classification companies in Greece. an association of petroleum companies with an interest The WWF Greece Environmental MOTOR OIL was placed among the top 10 Greek companies, • CONCAWE (CONservation of Clean Air and Water in the marine transportation of crude oil and petroleum Management and Disclosure Index in the 6th Group. in Europe), which provides technical support to products, as well as the operation of oil terminals. The European refineries on Health, Safety and Environmental forum’s activities are aimed at promoting the safe and Global 1000 Sustainable Performance MOTOR OIL was placed among the top 1000 Socially Responsible protection issues. Our participation ensures constant, environmentally-friendly operation of facilities and oil Leaders Companies in the world. complete and systematic information provision on tankers, through the continuous improvement of design Joint Inspection Group (JIG) OFC awarded with the third consecutive JIG “Certificate matters concerning environmental protection, during standards and operating practices. of Excellence”. production, distribution, handling and use of the 1. IDENTITY AND CORPORATE 1. IDENTITY AND CORPORATE 26 RESPONSIBILITY RESPONSIBILITY 27 We fully acknowledge the importance of these issues • The Principles and Values, the Vision and Mission of the 2009 Greek Investor Relations Awards “Best IR Officer Buy Side” Award presented to Banking Manager and Investors Relations Officer, Mr Spyros Balezos. and demonstrate our corporate responsibility by our company. commitment to pursue our business activities with due • The company’s strategy. HELEXPO “Exports Turnover” Award. respect for people, the environment and society. A natural • The principles of Corporate Governance, as well as the Aegean University Prize awarded to Annual Report 2008 for correct implementation consequence of this commitment is that we adopt a holistic General Business Principles applied by the company. of GRI principles. approach to implementing Corporate Social Responsibility • The company’s policies (Health, Safety and Environmental Accountability Rating Greece 2009 Ranked ninth amongst largest Greek companies. principles, by considering the protection of the environment, Policy, Quality Policy, Human Resources Management (Corporate Responsibility and Acand fulfilling our obligations to all stakeholders our Policies). countability Ratings) employees, shareholders, customers, suppliers and society as • The views of stakeholders, especially those of local 2008 NGO Ecocity “ECOPOLIS 2008 Environmental Investment” Award. a whole. communities. 2007 NGO Ecocity “ECOPOLIS 2007 Environmental Investment” Award. MOTOR OIL has adopted a Corporate Responsibility The efficient management and implementation of Corinth Chamber of Commerce “Entrepreneurship Award 2007”. Management Model that incorporates the four sectors programmes and actions arising from the above evaluation: XRIMA Business Awards “High Investments” Award. of action included in Corporate Social Responsibility programmes, as they moreover arise from the UN Global • Is consistent with the procedures set out in the company’s Compact, and the internationally accepted Global Reporting Annual Operating and the Five-year Business Plans, in Initiative (GRI). which these programmes and actions, endorsed by the Board of Directors, are included as explicit short or longEach one of these sectors has its respective stakeholders. term goals. The chart presented here, indicates these sectors, the • Is accomplished and monitored by means of specific respective stakeholders and the current material issues on procedures and work guidelines in the context of which MOTOR OIL’s activities are focused. the certified Management Systems for Quality (ISO 9001:2008), the Environment (ISO 14001:2004, EMAS III ER The evaluation of material issues and challenges concerning 1221/2009) and Health and Safety (OHSAS 18001:2007). the MOTOR OIL Group, and relating to sustainable development, is carried out by taking the following into consideration: CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY MANAGEMENT MODEL HUMAN RESOURCES ENVIRONMENT Β1. Managing Corporate Responsibility • Health and safety • Employment rights and equal opportunities • Clean fuels • Reduced emissions • Rational energy • Education and training management MOTOR OIL Group operates in the energy sector, primarily in oil, where the principles of Corporate Social • Discretionary benefits IMPROVING CONDITIONS IMPROVING PERFORMANCE • Technical optimization Responsibility and sustainable development -i.e. development that meets current needs without jeopardising the availability of resources for future generationsneed to be meticulously applied and respected. Particularly so in this sector, since crude oil reserves are finite, and their exploitation, from extraction and transportation, to refining and use • Corporate governance • Contribution to culture, sports of refined products, has environmental effects that must be effectively managed, utilising available technology. • Quality and reliability PROMOTING IMPROVING and the environment RESPONSIBLE QUALITY OF • Support for socially vulnerable • Service AND ETHICAL LIFE PRACTICES groups In implementing the principles of Corporate Social responsibility, we seek: • Control and assessment • Stimulating entrepreneurship • Risk management • to achieve a balanced approach to the economic, social and environmental impact • Responsible growth • Jobs of the Group’s operations, • to create value for our shareholders, while also serving the interests of other stakeholders, SHAREHOLDERS, • to show concern for our employees and for society at large. CUSTOMERS, SUPPLIERS THE PUBLIC 1. IDENTITY AND CORPORATE 1. IDENTITY AND CORPORATE 28 RESPONSIBILITY RESPONSIBILITY 29 MOTOR OIL ECONOMIC SOCIAL REPORT 2011 (MILLION EUROS) AS A RESPONSIBLE EMPLOYER, sees to the personal development and appropriate utilisation of its employees, by investing in their training, and providing a creative and supportive workplace environment that is characterised by good team-work, mutual respect and is conducive to individual initiative. In such a workplace, Health and Safety constitute a major priority which is assured through state-of-the-art infrastructure and contemporary management practices; HAVING A RESPONSIBLE ATTITUDE TOWARDS THE ENVIRONMENT, strives to ensure that its activities have the minimum possible impact on the environment, by having in place an effective Environmental Management System, implementing Best Available Techniques, as well as the most advanced systems for environmental protection, energy management and energy saving; AS A RESPONSIBLE CORPORATE CITIZEN, pursues constructive social dialogue with the local communities in which it mainly operates, in a climate of mutual trust and respect. It supports these communities, by participating in programmes that enhance their economic, social and cultural life, and becomes involved in similar activities that benefit society as a whole; HAVING A RESPONSIBLE POSITION IN THE MARKET, respects market rules and produces top quality products, it focuses on relations of trust with its customers, suppliers and partners, and strives -through the systematic and consistent achievement of its business targetsto ensure the best possible return for its shareholders without compromising its corporate responsibility and sustainable development standards. Β2. Economic benefits to society Social Product We create value for both our shareholders and other the continuous improvement of our production facilities stakeholders, and for society as a whole, by aiming at and processes, as well as by investing in the expansion or sustainable development and by meticulously applying the upgrading of our facilities. principles of good corporate governance. In 2011 the Group’s total revenues from economic The overall scale of the Group’s operations, combined activities amounted to 8,920.9 million euros. Out of these, with its consistent focus on steady growth, result in a 8,777.8 million euros were used to purchase crude oil, very significant contribution to the country’s economic other raw materials and finished products. This represents development. This contribution, based on efficient 93.4% of revenues, a justifiable amount given the nature of and successful business operations, encompasses Group activities. value production and job creation, facilitating social progress and cohesion, while ensuring the protection of The Social Product is that part of our income allocated the amounts given back in previous years can be seen in environmental quality. to selected stakeholders, i.e. the workforce, the state, the following table: shareholders, banks, suppliers (not including suppliers 499.1 Our operations in the extremely important energy sector, of crude oil, other raw materials and finished products), SOCIAL PRODUCT (IN MILLION EUROS) reduce the country’s dependence on foreign suppliers as well as society at large (donations and sponsorships). of oil products, while our interaction with stakeholders million euros It also encompasses the cost of securing operations, including expenditure for Health, Safety and the 2007 409.1 creates, primarily, value for all those concerned and, 2008 411.4 secondly, it contributes to the creation of value by SOCIAL PRODUCT 2011 Environment, insurance of facilities, repairs and preventive 2009 312.7 these same stakeholders for the benefit of the national maintenance. 2010 421.5 economy and society as a whole, through job creation, Based on the above, the Social Product returned to stakeholders in 2011 amounts to 499.1 million euros, while 2011 499.1 1. IDENTITY AND CORPORATE 1. IDENTITY AND CORPORATE 30 RESPONSIBILITY RESPONSIBILITY 31 DISTRIBUTION OF SOCIAL PRODUCT 2011 TOTAL 499.1 MILLION EUROS 29.3% 25.3% STATE REVENUES SHAREHOLDERS 9.6% BANKS SPONSORSHIPS/DONATIONS 0.5% 10.4% SECURING OUR OPERATIONS (HEALTH & SAFETY, ENVIRONMENT, MAINTENANCE, PREMIUMS)WORKFORCE: GROSS PAY, OTHER BENEFITS, INSURANCE CONTRIBUTIONS (OWN AND EMPLOYER’S) 13.7% 11.2% OTHER PURCHASES Β3. Responsible growth and investments Our vision is the consolidation of MOTOR OIL’s position as a leading refining and fuel products marketing company Striving for the highest standards of Health and Safety, Environmental protection and Quality, in the region in which we operate. In order to succeed through the application of technical, operational Responsible growth and creation of value for the benefit of all stakeholders is at the core of MOTOR OIL Group’s in this objective, we implement a consistent and flexible and organisational innovations and improvements to business model. This objective is based on the principles of Corporate Social Responsibility; the company strategy is its business strategy, which is focused on the following three the refinery, such as: vehicle, the tools of which are effective corporate governance, a coherent and suitably targeted investment programme key targets: • Implementing investment and other programmes and the application of effective management and administration systems. This approach allows the attainment of high concerned with Environmental protection and Health operational performance levels in all sectors, making it possible for the Group to record substantial financial results. Maximising the profitability of the refinery and and Safety. overall financial performance, by means of: • Enhancing preventive safety measures through • Producing high quality products in accordance with new investments in automated prevention and protection RESPONSIBLE GROWTH OF GROUP specifications, and as cost-effectively as possible, by systems, fulfilling or exceeding the specifications laid VALUE implementing state-of-the-art technologies. down by Greek law and international regulations. • Improving the refinery’s energy-efficiency, thus reducing • Upgrading the reliability of the production units’ its operating cost while at the same time reducing CO2 support systems, such as the power and steam emissions. cogeneration plant, the electricity management system • Optimising the fuel mix by exploiting the availability of and critical utilities. natural gas at the refinery. • Ongoing workforce training. OBJECTIVE • Full automation of refinery operations. CREATION OF VALUE • Increasing the efficiency of production processes and 2010 saw the completion of a substantial investment the availability of process units. period for MOTOR OIL concerning both organic growth • Increasing the production of lubricants. and acquisitions. Thus the company entered a phase of maturing and optimization of the exploitation of Maximisation and optimisation of sales, by the investments already completed. Total investment STRATEGY MAXIMIZATION MAXIMIZATION OPTIMIZATION OF FINANCIAL AND OPTIMIZATION OF SAFETY AND effectively marketing the refinery products and expenditures by the Group in the period 20002011 have PERFORMANCE OF SALES ENVIRONMENTAL amounted to 1,238 million euros, not including capital PROTECTION exploiting opportunities in our three markets (domestic, aviation/shipping, and export), for used for acquisitions. achieving the best possible profitability, by means of: 2011 was the first year in which we saw the Group results METHODS TARGETED EFFECTIVE EFFECTIVE DEDICATED TRANSPARENCY • Maximizing our domestic market share by exploiting the INVESTMENTS COST MARKETING STAFF IN CORPORATE Avin Oil and Coral networks. reflect the benefits stemming from the acquisition of the MANAGEMENT GOVERNANCE • Developing export sales, particularly targeting high Shell company in Greece over a full financial year, leading potential developing markets of significant profit to an increase in our domestic market share. margins. BASIS CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY • Expanding and exploiting the company’s storage facilities to more effectively meet the demand for products and related services. 1. IDENTITY AND CORPORATE 1. IDENTITY AND CORPORATE 32 RESPONSIBILITY RESPONSIBILITY 33 has afforded more flexibility to the refinery, allowing the Β4. Responsibility for the environment, 1,238 million euros maximisation of either diesel or gasoline production, according to seasonal demand. health and safety TOTAL INVESTMENTS AND The rest of the capital investment programme was focused on the technical upgrading of the refinery, on Ensuring occupational Health and Safety and Environmental protection is part of our 660 million euros vertical integration, automation, energy self-sufficiency and environmental protection. As a result, it is now considered as one of the most complex and technically advanced corporate Principles and Values and constitutes a fundamental strategic aim. refineries in Europe and worldwide (based on the Nelson Thus, we strive to conduct our industrial and commercial operations without FOR ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION PROJECTS OVER THE Complexity Index achieved, which is 10.4). compromising the health and safety of our employees and associates, while PERIOD 2000-2011 The Group’s investment expenditures in 2011 amounted to maintaining the highest standards of environmental protection and respecting 71.3 million euros, and involved, in relation to the refinery, the quality of life of those living in the vicinity of our industrial facilities. among other projects: Furthermore, our most recent major investment, the • Increasing the capacity of the refinery’s Cogeneration construction of the new Crude Distillation Unit Power Plant, which entailed expenditure for the The importance we attach to the management of Health, and EMAS ΙΙΙ ER 1221/2009 compliant, first certified in 2007) completed in May 2010 and which cost, together with installation of the fifth gas turbine. The Cogeneration Safety and Environmental protection, and our commitment and the Health and Safety Management System (OHSAS the peripheral units, a total of 200 million euros has Plant had four gas turbines and, with the addition of a to continuous improvement in these areas, is set out 18001:2007 compliant, first certified in 2008), which interpret strengthened our competitive position and improved our fifth, its installed power was increased to 85 MW (from in the relevant Policy that governs the operation of the this Policy into detailed programmes and measurable profitability, having now functioned all through the year 2011. 68 MW), ensuring the refinery’s energy self-sufficiency Environmental Management System (ISO 14001:2004 targets. Finally, our biggest investment of recent years involved the at the higher power demand levels that apply following compliant, the first such certification dating back to 2000, installation of the Hydrocracker complex (2005), which its expansion, while improving its energy performance. allowed for the production of clean fuels in accordance • Upgrading the existing Electricity Management System. with 2009 European Union specifications. At the same time, • Upgrading the Industrial Waste Water Treatment Plant. it helped to increase production of middle distillates, of • The general shutdown of the refinery to carry out which there has been a shortage in Greece (up to 2010) regular maintenance work. and Europe overall. Moreover, the Hydrocracker complex Health, Safety and Environmental Protection Policy MOTOR OIL operates with due respect for Health, Safety • Offering advice, information and training to its own and the Environment. employees and to subcontractors and others working To achieve this, the company is committed to: on its premises, so as to ensure their vigilance and • Setting targets and aims compatible with the continuous commitment to safe working practices. improvement of its Health, Safety and Environmental • Actively and uncompromisingly complying with management systems. environmental operating standards that set limits on • Complying with, or exceeding, the requirements of waste and polluting emissions. relevant legislation or other obligations. • Cooperating with all stakeholders for developing and • Producing guaranteed quality products in accordance applying balanced Health, Safety and Environmental with, or exceeding, Health and Environmental protection programmes that take into account the protection specifications applicable to each, efficiently needs of all parties involved. making use of raw materials, energy and technology. • Reporting its performance, good or bad, as a responsible At MOTOR OIL, anything we plan, design or do is done corporate citizen. safely, in an environmentally-friendly manner, and with • Maintaining emergency action plans and systems which financial efficiency. are regularly rehearsed with the appropriate drills. • Applying a coherent Integrated Management System that takes Health and Safety, and Environmental protection factors into consideration when plans are drawn up, or business and operational decisions are being taken. 1. IDENTITY AND CORPORATE 1. IDENTITY AND CORPORATE 34 RESPONSIBILITY RESPONSIBILITY 35 Β5. Responsible quality management The customer-oriented Integrated Management System takes systematic and full account of quality issues in all and issuing Quality Certificates endorsed by HAC for virtually all the company’s products. This certification operational and management processes, as shown in the offers us an additional competitive advantage, ensuring At MOTOR OIL we treat our customers with respect and a sense of responsibility, diagram. that the quality of our products is guaranteed. concentrating our efforts on supplying them with high-quality products. The consolidation of the Environmental Management All management systems are subject to biannual audits by System and the Health and Safety Management System, certification bodies in order to confirm their consistent into the Integrated Management System confers operation, as required by the relevant standards, and are Our commitment to quality is a fundamental element of • MOTOR OIL focuses on its customers, examines and an overall coherence to the company’s operational re-certified every three years. our strategy. MOTOR OIL’s Quality policy is summed up evaluates their requirements and applies all necessary management and links these management systems in two key principles, to which both management and technologies and actions, aiming at avoiding comprowith other related processes, thus maximising their The appropriate development of these management employees are fully committed: mises in quality matters and constantly improving the effectiveness. systems is realised by achieving certification for their • MOTOR OIL will produce and sell products that satisfy effectiveness of its Quality Management System. updated versions. In addition, audits by customers and its customers, always taking into consideration all stakeThe company’s Integrated Management System, through insurance organisations are carried out with excellent holders’ interests. which its Quality policy is implemented, was re-certified results. in 2009 by Bureau Veritas according to ISO 9001:2008, valid until 2012, when it was renewed until 2015, with the INTEGRATED MANAGEMENT first relevant certification dating back to 1993. SYSTEM The Quality Control Management process meets the requirements of the ISO 17025:2005 standard, and the Hellenic Accreditation System (HAC) has certified the QUALITY MANAGEMENT refinery’s Chemical Laboratory as capable of conducting ISO 9001:2008 tests in accordance with requirements of the standard, HUMAN PROCUREMENT RESOURCES MANAGEMENT QUALITY CONTROL ISO 17025-2005 Certified Management Systems are also MARKETING PROCESSING operated by the Group’s subsidiary companies: MARKETING INVENTORY OPERATING SALES MANAGEMENT SCHEME • Avin Oil operates a Quality Management System certified according to ISO 9001:2000 covering fuels and lubricants storage, marketing and distribution, and retail ENVIRONMENTAL network management. MANAGEMENT ISO 14001:2004 • Coral operates a Quality Management System certified EMAS III ER 1221:2009 according to ISO 9001:2008 covering lubricants and the DELIVERY OF PRODUCTS management of the network of Twin Petrol Stations. HEALTH AND SAFETY MANAGEMENT • Coral Gas operates an Environmental Management OHSAS 18001:2007 System certified according to ISO 14001:1997 for its Aspropyrgos facilities. CUSTOMER SERVICE MAINTENANCE • OFC operates a Quality Management System certified according to ISO 9001:2008, an Environmental Management System certified according to ISO 14001:2004, and a Health and Safety Management System compliant with OHSAS 18001:2007. 1. IDENTITY AND CORPORATE 1. IDENTITY AND CORPORATE 36 RESPONSIBILITY RESPONSIBILITY 37 B6. Customer service Respect for the customer the retail stations. With the support of our specialised chemical laboratories, as well as the special vans which carry out unannounced checks at our retail stations, we The companies in the MOTOR OIL Group seek to systematically meet their take active steps to ensure the quality of our products. customers’ needs by applying customer-focused criteria. In addition to these procedures, Coral, which manages the Shell retail stations in Greece, introduced this year, a special molecular marker into all the differentiated Shell MOTOR OIL conducts quantitative and qualitative • Determining the criteria applied by those selecting fuels. The molecular marker is introduced in infinitesimally customer satisfaction surveys covering the full spectrum MOTOR OIL as a supplier, and assessing their small quantities, can only be detected using special of its clientele. This aims at establishing an objective view impression of MOTOR OIL’s image as a supplier or instruments, cannot be removed or altered, and thereby of their level of satisfaction, by obtaining feedback about partner. allows identification of fuels with exceptional accuracy. their perception of the quality of services rendered, and • Assessing MOTOR OIL’s overall corporate image. their overall impression of its corporate image. As part of its efforts to ensure quantity control, Coral Survey data are analysed and evaluated, with a view to has also introduced its special Smart Ring for deliveries In these surveys customers are invited to respond to sets building on the company’s strengths and to detecting of heating oil. The pioneering Smart Ring is an innovative of questions covering the customer’s relations with the in particular the company’s weaknesses and taking method of electronic quantity control. It contains the company, his satisfaction with product quality, the speed appropriate corrective action, thereby demonstrating the customer’s unique details and the process of supplying with which orders are processed and bills of loading and customer-focused nature of the company’s strategy. fuel using the ring has been designed to avoid any invoices issued, the quality of loading onto vessels or road divergence in quantity between the order and the tankers, the handling of complaints, and finally a general Over time this procedure has led to a reduction in the actual amount received by the customer, making it the evaluation by the customer of the company’s image. number of complaints about the refinery, with only 2 most reliable and technologically advanced system for complaints received in 2011, down from 3 in 2010, 14 in controlling quantity during delivery. The basic objectives of these surveys are: 2009 and 16 in 2008. • Assessing customer satisfaction. Finally, Coral Gas was the first company to bring to • Evaluating the perceived quality of the entire range of Furthermore, the Group’s commercial companies have Greece LPG tanks with the special Flow Limiter Valve MOTOR OIL’s services. full quality and quantity control systems for their fuels. (FLV). The FLV bears the «π» certification of compliance • Determining aspects of MOTOR OIL’s current products, Specifically, quality controls are carried out on fuels at all with EU standards. A special protective mechanism is services and provisions that require improvement. stages of transportation from the refinery or facility to placed within the tap which limits the flow of gas from the bottle in the event of a serious leak in the network or if the tap should become stuck in the open position. The Coral Gas tanks therefore raise safety levels and improve protection for the consumer, representing the most upto-date solution for all domestic and professional uses of liquid gas. 1. IDENTITY AND CORPORATE 1. IDENTITY AND CORPORATE 38 RESPONSIBILITY RESPONSIBILITY 39 B7. Responsible communication with stakeholders STAKEHOLDER GROUP IDENTITY INTERACTION COMMUNICATION APPROACH Partners and These are suppliers of Partners and suppliers are paid We have long-standing and close At the MOTOR OIL Group we recognize that our business Sustainable growth is a common aim, so communication suppliers products and providers for the products and services relationships with our partners operations and decisions affect and are affected by with trust and respect facilitates this common objective, and of contract services, they provide to MOTOR OIL and suppliers. There is a structured mainly at the refinery, at Group, ultimately resulting communication programme at the refinery, various groups of stakeholders. The communication and the results are mutually beneficial. the other facilities and at in contribution to economic as well as all of our facilities, offering them cooperation we have developed with stakeholders indicates Stakeholder groups and, in summary, their identity, our service stations. development. appropriate information on health, safety the importance we attach to this issue, and our desire to interaction with the Group companies, as well as the and environmental protection issues, openly discuss and take into consideration their needs, communication approach applied to each of them, are for which compliance requirements are so that any arising issues can be handled, to the extent shown in the following table: exceptionally strict and closely monitored (see Chapter 3). possible, in mutually acceptable ways. Shareholders, The company’s equity Shareholders invest capital in Through competent management and Investors and is held by private and MOTOR OIL, as in any other an effective business strategy, MOTOR STAKEHOLDER IDENTITY INTERACTION COMMUNICATION APPROACH Analysts institutional investors, company, in the expectation that OIL creates value for its shareholders, GROUP both Greek and foreign. there will be returns, including while always maintaining due respect for At the end of 2011 dividends and an increase in all aspects of corporate responsibility. Employees In 2011, the MOTOR OIL Employees offer their labour A two-way communication between the main shareholder value of their shares. Regular communication with shareholders Group directly employed, and skills in return for salaries, employees and Management is in place, and was “Petroventure is conducted in various ways: through the on average, 1,928 people, additional benefits as well as various communication approaches are in Holdings Ltd” a company’s website, with press releases and of whom approximately opportunities for professional use, such as corporate announcements, company representing announcements issued by the Corporate 58% work in the refinery and personal development. briefings, the intranet, work groups, and the interests of the Communications Section, through (see Chapter 2). different events organised for personnel Vardinoyiannis family. the Annual Financial Report and the (dinners and excursions). 51.2% of the share Environmental and Social Report, through Moreover, the refinery employees are capital is distributed the operation of an Investors’ Relations represented by their Trade Union and the freely among the broad Section, through presentations of financial Health and Safety Committee. As a result, investing community. results in conference calls, and with regular official dialogue is regularly conducted; MOTOR OIL’s business participation in road-shows. employees are also encouraged to submit activity is monitored their individual proposals for improvements by Greek and foreign in working conditions. financial analysts. Agencies National or international Cooperation with these The most important collaborations of 2011 providing social organizations, such as the bodies involves supporting are listed in Chapter 5. Local communities MOTOR OIL’s MOTOR OIL creates value for Communication (with emphasis on local and community ELPIDA association, the their programmes, conducting industrial activities, as society with the creation of communities affected by the company’s opservices, cultural Foundation for the Child specialised studies, and expected, impacts local jobs, with returning back the so erations) takes place mainly through Local organizations, and the Family, Lifeline subsidising scientific, cultural or communities in the called social product, and with Authorities, as well as other bodies, such as educational, sporting Hellas, the Smile of the charity activities. vicinity of the refinery. its contribution to society, by private associations and organisations (see and environmental Child, the Red Cross, supporting local and broader Chapter 5). agencies the Efthymeio Centre, social activities. the Benaki Museum, the University of Cambridge -Programme Customers Due to the nature of its With its extensive and We have long-standing and close for Sustainability, business, MOTOR OIL continuous investment relationships with our customers, based universities, the Corinth refinery has a relatively programme, MOTOR OIL on the quality of our products, the service Hospital, local cultural small number of offers its customers high quality we offer, our experience, and our reliability societies, schools, sports customers. By contrast, service and products, that satisfy and responsibility. Communication with the associations, etc. the Group’s commercial their requirements, and is duly refinery’s customers is mainly the task of companies have an rewarded with the income it the Marketing Division, which may involve The State Public authorities on a The Group generates revenues The Group always operates in compliance extensive network receives. Above all, the Group’s other company departments if necessary. local and national level. for the State, through the with legal requirements. There is an open of customers, from commercial companies place In the commercial companies, the sales payment of taxes and duties. and honest, two-way communication industrial facilities and customer service at the very departments and staff of our service Public authorities protect the and cooperation with competent Public commercial companies heart of their strategy, offering stations are the public face of the company. public interest by promulgating Authorities, ensuring the supply of to final consumers. them products and services of Lastly, customer satisfaction surveys are rules and regulations, ensuring information required by each body, as the highest quality. regularly conducted. their enforcement, issuing well as the documented discussion on any operating licences and providing issues arising. support in emergency situations. 2. RESPONSIBILITY TOWARDS 2. RESPONSIBILITY TOWARDS 40 OUR EMPLOYEES OUR EMPLOYEES 41 RESPONSIBILITY TOWARDS OUR EMPLOYEES Our value as a Group is created by the efforts of our people. We recognise that they are our most valuable resource, essential to the achievement of our strategic goals, to the successful implementation of our growth business plans and in ensuring our long-term competitiveness. We aim to provide a first-class, safe and fair workplace, which promotes trust, team spirit and respect for people, along with effectiveness. We are committed to providing the best working conditions, to securing respect for human rights and for the freedom of association, to upholding non-discrimination and to providing equal opportunities for learning and personal development. 1,928 In 2010, the MOTOR OIL Group expanded through the acquisition of the commercial activities of Shell in Greece and, as a result, absorbed the employees of the companies Shell Hellas Shell Gas renamed Coral and Coral Gas, whose long, international technical and operational experience has added a new impetus to the Group. employees During 2011 the MOTOR OIL Group had a workforce, averaged over the year, of 1,928 employees. 411 Despite the economic crisis, we expanded our workforce through further recruitment, we offered an extended educational programme and continued the provision to our employees of the structured discretionary benefits package. recruitments in the past five years 2007-2011 20,800 training hours 2. RESPONSIBILITY TOWARDS 2. RESPONSIBILITY TOWARDS 42 OUR EMPLOYEES OUR EMPLOYEES 43 1. Human resources management 2. Equal opportunities system and human rights The MOTOR OIL Group has created a contemporary, fully integrated Human Resources Management System. The All aspects of human resources management are pursued with transparency and are based on meritocracy. System is designed to allow proper management of the Group’s human resources, with ongoing development and advancement of individual employees. This system is founded on the principles and values of the Group and defined by its vision and strategic objectives. We offer a workplace of no exclusions, in which all are treated fairly and are offered equality of opportunity, and where diversity is valued. The Group’s Human Resources Management System is based on respect for Recruitment, transfers, promotions, pay and benefits, MOTOR OIL fully respects international principles of its employees and for fundamental, internationally accepted principles of human education and training, etc, are governed by the principles human rights, in particular those set out in the United resource management, incorporating continuous efforts to achieve further of our equal opportunities policy, the avoidance of any Nations Declaration of Human Rights, and in the UN form of discrimination, and respect for employees’ dignity. Global Compact’s ten principles, to which we are improvements, development and modernisation. signatories. The Group is opposed to any practice which In applying the equal opportunities policy, we strive might encourage the imposition of any form of forced to ensure: or child labour. It complies fully with national legislation The aim of the Human Resources Management System is • That the composition of management reflects the on child labour; there are no instances of forced or child to allow employees to realise their potential to the full, composition of the workforce. labour anywhere in the Group’s activities, nor would in conjunction with ensuring that they get the greatest • That education and training programmes are available to they be acceptable). It should be noted that all MOTOR possible satisfaction in their work; in parallel its principal all personnel, in accordance with business needs. OIL’s activities take place exclusively on Greek territory, goals are: • Equal pay for men and women. and the relevant Greek labour law that it complies • Compliance with existing legislation, and universally established principles of human and labour rights. Vision with, is consistent with the requirements of the 1998 We support efforts to create an inclusive society, where Declaration of the International Labour Organisation • Fairness and meritocracy in employee relations. those with special needs are protected, not simply (ILO) on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work, • Providing for equal opportunities and possibilities through the provision of welfare, but primarily through with references to the Greek Constitution and labour for the professional and personal development of employees. Principles Strategic efforts made for their productive integration into society. law. The Greek legal provisions include two conventions and Thus, we offer jobs to disabled people, providing them concerning the protection of freedom of association and • Accountability of employees in achieving the company’s Values Objectives with access to employment, education and professional the right to collective bargaining. business goals. development. • A competitive and fair remuneration system linked to employee performance but consistent with prevailing market conditions. HUMAN • Offering pay and benefits exceeding those provided for RESOURCES by law and by collective labour agreements. MANAGEMENT • A programme of targeted education and training SYSTEM covering subjects relevant to the Group’s strategic Or gan development goals, and aiming at the effective and safe iza ies S discharge of duties. nal tio Pol • Welfare provisions covering employees’ families, and tru c ic Job efits the promotion of a healthy balance between work and assess tur e nar y ben m ent Dis cretio family life. Re • Creation of strong bonds with employees, through longm un term relationships and open communication. er at ng Performance io • To attract competent young people having a professional aini n sy approach to work, who share our values: reliability, Tr ste assessment m dedication, integrity and personal responsibility. • Enhancement of corporate culture and corporate values. 2. RESPONSIBILITY TOWARDS 2. RESPONSIBILITY TOWARDS 44 OUR EMPLOYEES OUR EMPLOYEES 45 3. Labour Relations 4. Basic employment data Relations with trade unions The MOTOR OIL GROUP, as a result of its capacity in pursuing successful business growth opportunities, and through effective management, has become one of Greece’s most important, dynamic and consistent employers. At MOTOR OIL, the terms and conditions of employment are regulated by a Collective Labour Agreement, which was drawn up in September 1974, and is approved by the Labour Ministry. As we have already stated, at the end of 2011 93.9% of the Group’s employees were on indefinite-term contracts. In 2011, the size of the combined human resources of the Group (MOTOR OIL, AVIN, Coral, Coral Gas and Employees are free to participate in trade unions and professional associations without any restriction. Refinery employees are represented through their trade union and the Health and Safety Committee. OFC) -averaged over the yearwas 1,928 employees. This figure is slightly lower than that for the previous year, by At the end of 2011, 93.9% 55 employees, owing mainly to retirements prompted The union has had a collective labour agreement with the Hellenic Federation of Enterprises since 1986. This by change in the legislative framework. The 2010 figures agreement, which lays down the terms of employment and pay levels at the refinery, is supplemented by annual were up significantly on preceding years, mainly because agreements between the company and the union. of inclusion in the Group’s workforce of employees of the Coral and Coral Gas companies. Due to the continuous We believe that smooth cooperation between the Company and the growth of the Group, the size of the workforce has been growing steadily since 2000, despite investments aimed of our workforce were employees’ union is extremely important particularly so in difficult times like at increasing the level of refinery automation and efforts employed on the present, when we are experiencing the effects of the severe economic crisis. made to simplify tasks. indefinite-term contracts. We therefore hold regular meetings with union representatives, the common aim being to ensure harmonious In addition to personnel directly employed by bilateral relations, avoid disputes and preserve labour peace, while continuing to achieve improvements in working the companies of the Group, a significant number conditions.. are indirectly employed through sub-contractors. Undoubtedly, therefore, our business activities create a significant amount of secondary employment. EMPLOYEES The main site of MOTOR OIL’s activities is the refinery AVERAGE FIGURE FOR YEAR in Aghioi Theodoroi, Corinth, where an average of 1,065 were employed in 2011 out of a total of 1,928 employed by the company. Approximately 55% of the refinery 1,983 personnel live in the greater region of Corinth, where 1,928 MOTOR OIL is the biggest employer. Finally, seeking always to attract and recruit capable individuals who 1,470 1,485 1,507 1,430 will make an effective contribution to implementing our 1,338 1,377 1,220 1,240 1,280 1,207 strategy and objectives, and given our strong presence in the Corinth region, we encourage hiring on the local level, wherever such recruitment meets our employment needs. 688 Recruitments of permanent 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 employees over the last decade 2. RESPONSIBILITY TOWARDS 2. RESPONSIBILITY TOWARDS 46 OUR EMPLOYEES OUR EMPLOYEES 47 Gender Profile participate in long-term external courses leading to Age Range commitment and level of job satisfaction recognised degrees. of our employees. We regard this as one In order to fill job vacancies and ensure our employees’ In recent years the average age of Group employees has professional development, we support equal treatment been consistently around 41.5. More specifically, in 2011 the of our key competitive advantages. LEVEL OF EDUCATION 2011 of both genders, and offer equal opportunities without average was 41.6, in 2010 and 2009 41.4, in 2008 41.7 and in discrimination. However, due to the nature of the 2007 41.4. It should be noted that in 2011, 63% of employLong-term employment at MOTOR OIL is rewarded by 3% additional salary increments. In addition -at the refinery, activities of the Group -and particularly the nature ees were aged under 45. of most refinery jobsthe ratio of women to men is at Coral and at Coral Gascommemorative gifts of relatively low. Thus, in 2011, 15% of all employees were 24% value are made to employees completing periods of long female, while at the head offices of the Group companies, service; these gifts vary from company to company and the number of women rises to 35%. 63% are relevant to the years of service. AGE RANGE 2011 Among management, women made up 14% of the total, 10% SECONDARY 2% LENGTH OF SERVICE 2011 a satisfactory reflection of the overall participation of TECHNICAL EDU. COLLEGE EDU. women in the total workforce, while in other office and UNIVERSITY EDU. technical jobs the percentage was 15%. SECONDARY EDU. 25.2% 37% 61% DISTRIBUTION 19.5% 17.4% BY GENDER 2011 Workforce and professional 58% 13.3% advancement 25-45 YEARS OLD 11.1% < 25 YEARS OLD > 45 YEARS OLD 6.5% 7.0% In 2011, management comprised 13% of the total personnel of the Group, while technicians-operators and 15% administrative personnel accounted for 87% of the total number of employees. Length of employment and turnover of WOMEN employees < 1 YEAR 1-5 YEARS 5-10 YEARS 10-15 YEARS 15-20 YEARS 20-25 YEARS > 25 YEARS Each employee has the opportunity for promotion within the management hierarchy, according to their As far as the length of service of the personnel with qualifications, performance and skills, as the main objective the Group is concerned, the average was 14.1 years in In 2011, the total of permanent staff increased by 75 new MEN is to fill vacant managerial positions from within the 2011 (compared to 13.9 in 2010, 14,2 in 2009, 14.6 in 2008 employees, while 80 persons left for various reasons. 85% Group wherever and whenever possible. In fact, under and 14.1 in 2007), indicating a relatively low rate of staff This represents an increase of 19 in the number of new a new policy introduced at the end of 2011 each vacancy turnover. Some 48.8% of employees have considerable employees hired and a decrease of 12 in the number of is first advertised internally; the position is opened to experience in the Group, as they have more than 10 years departures, compared to the figures for 2010. external applicants only if no suitable internal candidate of service, while 26% have less than five years’ service. can be found. These figures indicate a healthy balance in the service STAFF MOBILITY* profile of our personnel, combining the experience of Educational Level older employees with the renewal and dynamism brought 2009 2010 2011 WORKFORCE 2011 by more recent recruits. RECRUITMENTS 84 56 75 We place great importance on the educational level of STAFF DEPARTURES (CLASSIFIED BY REASON) our personnel, and our aim is to attract, develop and In addition, the low rate of labour turnover demonstrates RETIREMENT 64 66 46 retain suitable and competent employees. the extent of employee loyalty to, and the strength of ties RESIGNATION 11 13 20 with, the Group, which is one of our main competitive 29% 34% of our employees are university or college advantages. MISCELLANEOUS 6 13 14 graduates. TOTAL 81 92 80 58% In order to further develop the skills of our personnel The particularly low level of turnover STAFF MOBILITY * 5.4% 4.6% 4.1% and to maintain a high-output culture in the workplace, 13% (4.1%) of employees in 2011 is a various further education and vocational training TECHNICAL STAFF MANAGEMENT reflection of the reciprocal confidence programmes are organised in new technologies, systems STAFF DEPARTURES and processes, while employees are encouraged to EXECUTIVES between staff and management, and the *STAFF MOBILITY = AVERAGE NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES ×100 2. RESPONSIBILITY TOWARDS 2. RESPONSIBILITY TOWARDS 48 OUR EMPLOYEES OUR EMPLOYEES 49 5. Remuneration System In 2011 the Group’s budget for discretionary benefits to employees with a high morale, representing the necessary foundation for all aspects of One of the Group’s main objectives is to offer its employees competitive remuneration, for both rewarding their and their families amounted to €8.5m. the Group’s development and progress. contribution and maintaining a high level of employee satisfaction. Total workforce remuneration expenditure of 117.3m euros in 2011 Such employee benefits are: insurance policies providing both pension and medical treatment cover for employees; The system we implement in order to set, manage and The Group’s total expenditure on wages/salaries in schemes re-imbursing employees for the costs of their review salary levels is in line with current company 2011 amounted to 117.3 million euros, while in 2010 they children’s education; Christmas parties for employees’ SPENDING ON DISCRETIONARY and sector-specific agreements, and is consistent and amounted to 108.6 million euros. This includes pay children and family excursions (in 2011, 46 such excursions BENEFITS FOR EMPLOYEES AND transparent. Negotiations covering collective agreements for regular and overtime work, mandatory employer were organised, to various parts of the country, in THEIR FAMILIES (MILLION EUROS) on salary adjustments are in line with sector practices contributions to social security funds and other additional which 3,000 people participated); long-service awards; that are applied at national level. Moreover, the structure allowances over and above those laid down in either employees are supported for participating in sporting of the remuneration system ensures equal pay for men labour legislation or collective agreements. These activities; etc. 8.9 8.5 and women doing the same work, and rules out any additional, non-statutory allowances are discretionary 7.5 other form of discrimination. The factors determining payments to employees intended to reward productivity wage/salary levels are mainly the employee’s grade and and acknowledge the contribution of individuals to the These activities, which follow from our performance, the responsibilities and accountabilities of Group’s performance. conviction that “our intrinsic value as a the position held, the educational level and the seniority/ length of service. Group is built on our human resources” contributes to the creation of a uniform social group of employees in the Group, 2009 2010 2011 which is cohesive, committed and BREAKDOWN OF WORKFORCE REMUNERATION EXPENDITURE MILLION EUROS 27.4 70.7 Voluntary Blood Donation 19.2 ADDITIONAL WAGE/SALARY BENEFITS Our employees are encouraged to participate in blood donation EMPLOYER’S CONTRIBUTIONS programmes, which is a compassionate act that demonstrates on GROSS PAY NOT INCLUDING ADDITIONAL BENEFITS a personal level the sense of social solidarity. The programmes are run in association with the Corinth General Hospital (for employees at the refinery), the Metaxa Specialist Cancer Hospital (for employees at the MOTOR OIL head offices), and with the Laiko Hospital (for employees of Coral and Coral Gas). Blood donations by employees of MOTOR OIL has become a tradition, 6. Additional discretionary benefits now with a 26-year history. In recognition of their long record of donating blood, in 2011 the Corinth Hospital made a special award The Group, recognizing and rewarding its employees’ hard work, has introduced -for years nowa wide range of to MOTOR OIL donors, presenting them with a certificate and supplementary discretionary allowances and insurance benefits for employees and their family dependants. These a medal depending on the number of years each individual had discretionary employee allowances cover five main areas: been giving blood. Overall, the resulting blood reserves are used • Personal development and welfare. to cover the needs of the blood donors themselves, their families • Covering the cost of medical treatment in cases of ill health. or close relatives, and other people, in the event of an emergency. • Family assistance. One hundred and forty five units of blood were donated during • Provision of various other facilities. 2011 and the total number donated since 1991 is 2,840 units. • Strengthening corporate culture, and cultivating co-operation and team spirit. 2. RESPONSIBILITY TOWARDS 2. RESPONSIBILITY TOWARDS 50 OUR EMPLOYEES OUR EMPLOYEES 51 7. Education and training Framing and achieving our strategic objectives in the The Group’s budget for education and highly specialized oil industry depends entirely on the sophisticated skills of our workforce. Investment training programmes over the period in ongoing training for our employees is a strategic 2007-2011 amounted to €6.1m. choice and a key element in the process of aligning our workforce’s skills with the full range of objectives and ambitions of the Group. For this reason, each year the MOTOR OIL Group SPENDING ON EDUCATION draws up and implements a comprehensive education (million EUROS) and training programme for its workforce, designed to Football and basketball teams 2004 and the European Corporate Games Tournament in 2003 and 2005. help employees raise their own level of training while advancing more general corporate business plans. 1.4 To promote and improve the team and participation 1.3 1.2 In 2011 the Avin Oil football team won first place 1.1 1.1 spirit in employees, we encourage their participation The basic objective served by our education and among 12 teams in League B of the Amateur Business in sporting activities. Teams set up by our employees training programme is to ensure our employees have Championship, and was promoted to League A. Also, continue to perform well and win trophies in recognized the background knowledge necessary to perform their in 2010, in League A of the corresponding 8-a-side business leagues and championships. specialized duties, allowing them to carry out their championship it won 3rd place, while in 2009 it won the In 2011 the MOTOR OIL employees’ football team everyday tasks with the maximum efficiency while also double (championship and cup) in the same league. performed exceptionally well, winning the title for the preparing them for employment requirements in the 14th time in the 40-team Amateur Athens Corporate longer term. The Avin Oil basketball team kept up this record of Games League. In 2008 the team won the title for the We thus seek continually to enrich the vocational successes, being crowned champion in 2011 of the ten 13th year in a row in this League, in which it has been knowledge of our employees, expanding their range of teams in the first division. 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 competing for 19 years in succession, having won 8 skills while also upgrading their level of technical training, doubles (Championship and Cup), 6 championship titles, 1 helping to create a safer and more efficient workplace. The Coral basketball team also participated in the 2010Cup and 2 Ethos Cups. 2011 season in the Nikos Galis Workers’ League, winning first place in the Phase II Second Capacity Group. Its competitive performance has been equally impressive abroad, as it won the World Corporate Championship in EDUCATIONAL SPENDING INDICATOR1 1.6% 1.4% 1.3% 1.3% 1.0% 1 Total spending on education as percentage of total spending on wages/salaries, including employer’s social insurance 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 contributions. 2. RESPONSIBILITY TOWARDS 2. RESPONSIBILITY TOWARDS 52 OUR EMPLOYEES OUR EMPLOYEES 53 Education and Training instructors • Attendance of international seminars run by Training of new operators Programmes internationally recognized educational centres A specially organised multifaceted induction • Domestic seminars run by accredited training agencies, The main parameters determining the planning and programme -covering both training and operational as well as attendance at conferences both in Greece implementation of the individual education and training experienceis followed by newly recruited refinery and abroad programmes are the educational needs of the workforce operators. • Participation in undergraduate and postgraduate courses as identified in the working environment each year. • Purchase of books and subscriptions to specialist This programme, with the appropriate theoretical and technical journals and professional associations. The planning of such programmes is based on: practical components, ensures that the refinery’s future • the business objectives of the Group, technical personnel acquire the requisite technical skills • the further training programmes organized in previous and capabilities, together with a sense of responsibility, years, which are vital for their work in a demanding and • the training required in areas of technical specialization, potentially hazardous environment. The approximately • training needs in the areas of health and safety, with twelve-month induction training is conducted entirely emphasis on the technical side, but also on raising in-house by refinery executives, engineers and skilled awareness of all levels of workforce and management of operators from various units of the refinery, according the vital importance of workplace safety, to the duties each new recruit will take on. • training needs in the areas of quality and environmental protection, The induction training schedule and the subjects • more general needs to improve workforce skills. covered are as follows: The education and training programmes cover the • One month’s training on core subjects (Properties following areas: and Specifications of Crude Oil and Petroleum • Introductory training for new operators and Products, Refining Fundamentals, Plant Equipment, maintenance technicians, and for newly-hired engineers. Maintenance, Health and Safety, Environmental • Skills training for technical staff in their particular areas Protection, Quality, Fire Protection, First Aid, of employment, as well as in use of personal safety Technical English, an introduction to computers, etc). equipment and working machinery/equipment. Training material • Training regarding Health, Safety, Environmental • Five months’ morning-shift experience with analytical Protection and Quality, with an emphasis on the special on-the-job training. The Computerised Training Simulator (CTS) is an features of each workplace. exceptionally effective training tool that contributes • Training of non-technical staff on basic Health and Safety • Six months’ shift working, without assuming to the refinery’s safe operation. It is used to train new regulations, use of fire-fighting equipment and first aid actual operational responsibilities, in order to gain operators of the refinery’s most complex plant (i.e. the provision. experience. This also facilitates evaluation of new Fluid Catalytic Cracking Complex), as well as operators • Instruction in safe driving techniques and in the recruits’ knowledge and experience, as well as their of the Hydrocracker Complex. procedures for the safe loading, unloading and transport interest and dedication to the job, in view of a final of fuels. assessment of their suitability for the specific position. The Technical Training Manuals prepared entirely by • Training in business and administrative skills, computer our own refinery engineers are written to reflect skills, as well as personal development issues. At the end of each of the three training stages, the the current structure of the refinery and meet its • Emergency preparedness exercises, including scheduled new operators take a written test to evaluate their current production needs. They provide the necessary or unscheduled drills. This training includes joint knowledge step-by-step. theoretical and technical documentation, while at the exercises with the other Greek refineries, and same time offering a valuable source of information. participation of the Fire Service. After completion of the above programme, the new They fully cover the training needs of the refinery • Learning foreign languages. operators take up their jobs, working initially with workforce, and can also be used in other activities • Health and Safety training for subcontractor personnel. experienced operators and undertaking simple tasks, where information on the structure and operation of before going on to assume their full duties. the refinery is required. The education and training programmes are A similar, accordingly adjusted programme is also organized via: applied for the induction of newly-hired maintenance • In-house seminars run by Group managers or external technicians. 2. RESPONSIBILITY TOWARDS 2. RESPONSIBILITY TOWARDS 54 OUR EMPLOYEES OUR EMPLOYEES 55 Training in 2011 fire safety, the use of Personal Protective Equipment, the rescue of people from places of great height, the Training Subjects at the In 2011, a total 20,800 man-hours were devoted to development of a safety culture, safe driving and fuels Refinery in 2011 education and vocational training -at an overall cost transport, the provision of first aid and other specific (including indirect costs) of 1.1 million eurosinvolving topics. Internal training at the refinery is provided by the participation of 1,427 employees (78.8% of the total instructors who may be refinery managers or highly workforce), of which 156 were managers and 1,271 other The other education and training programmes were specialized external instructors, usually brought in personnel. It should be noted that the figure of training designed to provide further training for the existing from abroad. man-hours includes training related to fire safety, use of technical staff in order to develop and further improve Personal Protective Equipment and other related subjects their skills in various specialist technical areas (such The main training areas were as follows: throughout the Group’s operations. However, it does as the use of the thermal camera and the SAP system • Training of new refinery operators. not include training hours associated with emergency by production and maintenance staff, respectively, at preparedness exercises. the refinery), training of the staff of the commercial • Training of maintenance staff in use of SAP System. companies in aspects of IT and anti-monopoly policy, etc. • Training of canteen staff in application of ISO Training courses were also organized in aspects of 22000:2005 Food Management System. MAN-HOURS DEVOTED TO personal improvement, human resource management, EACH EDUCATIONAL negotiation techniques, sales and marketing, accounting • Regular training of engineers in response to Major TRAINING AREA IN 2011 and finance, law, foreign languages and IT. Events. TOTAL HOURS = 20,800 Particular mention should be made of the contribution • Training of shift foremen in use of firefighting and significant involvement of Group executives in the equipment and personal protection equipment. in-house training and education programme. In 2011 this 2.8% involvement accounted for about 900 hours. • Training of rescue teams by Elefsina Disaster Moreover, during 2011, in line with the policy on reResponse Team in rescue of persons at risk in 19% imbursement of tuition fees, 12 employees were assisted inaccessible parts of the refinery, at a great height in their efforts to specialise in particular subjects, or from the ground. achieve first degree or postgraduate qualifications in areas relevant to the Group’s current operations. • Training of production staff in use of thermal 7.6% camera. 4.2% • Recertification of equipment inspection staff, for 63.4% 3% various forms of inspection. • Training in oscillation measurement and analysis. Training performance in 2011 • Training in issues related to furnace energy • General Ôraining Activity Ratio : 11.4 hours/ 1 performance. person HEALTH & SAFETY AND THE ENVIRONMENT • Specific Training Activity Ratio2: 14.5 hours/ • Training in hydro-treating process. TECHNICAL MATTERS TRAINING OF NEW OPERATORS person MANAGEMENT • Training Cost Ratio3: 1.0% • Training in design and operation of gas evaporation IT • Training Participation Ratio4: 78.8% systems. FINANCE 1. Total training hours to total number of employees. 2. Total training hours to total number of trainees. Occupational Health and Safety, Environmental Protection 3. Total training expenditure to total payroll and Quality were the principal subjects covered by expenditure including employer’s social security training activities in 2011. Of these subjects, training was contributions. provided to cover the relevant Management Systems, the 4. Total number of trainees to total human resources. REACH Regulation, process safety, occupational health, 3. HEALTH AND SAFETY 3. HEALTH AND SAFETY 56 57 15.8 million euros SPENT ON SAFETY (INVESTMENTS AND HEALTH AND SAFETY OPERATING EXPENSES) For MOTOR OIL, ongoing improvement of our health and safety performance is a moral obligation and an overriding 2.0 THE ACCIDENT FREQUENCY INDEX commitment The nature of the Group’s industrial and commercial operations refining, storage, transportation and marketing of fuels combined with our corporate Principles and Values, make occupational Health and Safety a matter of exceptional importance, and a priority to which our commitment is absolute and permanent. In order to secure the safety of the working environment, and the continuous improvement of health and safety standards in the workplace, we apply a rigorously structured Management System. In pursuit of our standing objective of ‘Zero Accidents’ we: • train our workforce • assess, control and prevent occupational hazards • make significant investments in order to ensure the integrity of technical equipment used in our facilities. In 2011, our activities in the field of health and safety, in addition to other projects, focused on further embedding the principles of the OHSAS 18001: 2007 standard, with which the company was first certified compliant in 2008, on further developing the safety culture, on enhancing the safety consciousness and the accident prevention mentality amongst our employees, on making investments in accident prevention projects, on improving fire prevention measures and on training. Accident indices continue their long-term decline, and the Frequency Index has improved compared to 2010. 3. HEALTH AND SAFETY 3. HEALTH AND SAFETY 58 59 1. Health and safety management COMPONENT PARTS OF THE HEALTH AND SAFETY MANAGEMENT SYSTEM framework Policy • MOTOR OIL’s commitment to Health and Safety and a description of the arHealth and Safety at work and the prevention of occupational hazard is a moral obligation and a business necessity rangements for implementing the policy. which goes beyond the narrow limits of a simple legal obligation. Our principal concern, arising from our Health, Safety and Environmental Protection Policy, is to take all necessary measures, and to implement all appropriate projects and programmes, in order to achieve our established goals for Health and Safety in the workplace, which are laid down as Planning • Strict compliance with relevant legislation, with international standards and follows: codes of practice and with established operational rules. • Specification of annual goals, programmes and investment projects for equip• To minimize the risk of major accidents to the lowest At the refinery, delivering on this commitment relies ment upgrades, to ensure optimum performance with respect to both producpossible level. on the effective operation of the integrated Health and tivity and safety. • To eliminate occupational accidents “Zero Accidents”. Safety Management System, which is certified compliant • Designation of responsibilities and accountabilities. • Constant monitoring and upgrading of the quality of -since 2008with the internationally recognised Health • Systematic identification, control and assessment of all risks associated with equipment so as to ensure that conditions conducive to and Safety standard OHSAS 18001:2007. the hazards arising from the refinery’s operations. safe work operations are continuously improved. • Effective protection of people (our personnel, The company OFC also secured this certification, in 2006. contractors’ personnel, our neighbours, associates and Implementation • Visible and systematic management by competent executives at all management site visitors), as well as the environment and our own levels. installations, from the hazards that may arise from the • Provision of appropriate and full training to all employees. company’s activities. • Understanding and analysis of operational risks in course of work and appro• Effective training of personnel and continuous efforts to priate precautions, by all employees and at all levels of management. establish a culture of safe working. • Strict application and documentation of procedures for operational safety and • Full compliance with regulatory requirements. efficiency. • Ensuring that all operations are carried out in full compliance with safety rules and regulations. • Systematic recording of all incidents. • Excellent cooperation and communication with public authorities and other HEALTH AND SAFETY MANAGEMENT SYSTEM (HSMS) stakeholders, including providing them with all relevant information. OHSAS 18001:2007 • Systematic measurement of results and target setting, using established industry indicators, so as to ensure constant improvement in performance and identification of malfunctioning and of vulnerabilities. Management • Carrying out of exercises for the updating of the company’s Emergency ReCommitment sponse Plan. Health, Safety and Environmental Protection Policy Compliance monitoring and • Continuous inspections of all mechanical and other equipment in use, to encorrective actions sure its operational integrity throughout its life-cycle. Procedures Equipment Continuous Planning • Regular auditing of safety procedures. HSMS Improvement • Systematic investigation and analysis of all incidents. Integrity • Communication of the results of risk assessments. • Creating incentives for improved performance. Compliance Implementation monitoring and and corrective actions Operation Continuous improvement • Generating recommendations for improvement and revision of current arPersonnel rangements. participation • Management commitment to implementing improvements. • Ongoing personnel training. 3. HEALTH AND SAFETY 3. HEALTH AND SAFETY 60 61 The operation of the Health and Safety Management System is assigned to the refinery’s Health, Safety and determination of storage areas and measures to deal with a possible leakage, depending on place of 2. Safety indices and Environment Section. Moreover, the health and chemical in classification scheme. safety organisation includes in-house safety engineers, • Organization by MOTOR OIL of the 31st Meeting of The extent to which the Health and Safety Management System operates successfully is reflected in trends in the occupational physicians and nursing staff both at the Greek Refineries on Health, Safety and the Environment. most important safety indices, i.e. the number, frequency and severity of lost-time injuries, which have shown a clear refinery and at MOTOR OIL’s head office at a level that • Compliance with, and systematic monitoring by downward trend over time. goes beyond the requirements of the relevant Greek MOTOR OIL of, the European REACH (registering, legislation (Law 3850/2010). assessment and licensing of chemical products) and CLP (classification, packaging and labeling of substances MOTOR OIL GROUP There are also two statutory committees: and mixtures) Regulations, following successful first NUMBER OF LOST TIME INJURIES (LTI)1 • The Safety and Environment Committee, whose phase of registration of substances in 2010, for effective 28.8 members include Refinery Section Heads monitoring of relevant developments. • The five-member Employee Health and Safety • Continuing training and support for our workforce, TREND CURVE 20.0 20 Committee set up under Law 3850/2010, whose elected as well as employees of contractors, through members are appointed every two years by the refinery various actions (see chapter on Training-Briefing14 employees. Collaborations). 13 10 9 8 8 The above Committees are intended to oversee control 6 of health and safety conditions, making recommendations 3 for changes and improvements as necessary. 1993-1997 1998-2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Similar arrangements operate in the other companies of the Group, taking appropriate account of the particular conditions of each workplace. During 2011, our efforts to achieve our Health and Safety In 2011 eight Lost Time Injuries were recorded at the various facilities of the MOTOR OIL Group, as many as in 2010. At goals were focused on the following: the refinery, which is the heart of the Group’s activities, a total of five LTIs were recorded, compared with a target of seven accidents for the year. • Upgrading and improvement of work practices and procedures. This would involve, for example, revision of the Emergency Response Plan and the Occupational Risk Assessment Study. MOTOR OIL GROUP • Implementation of ground-breaking plans to upgrade LOST TIME INJURIES FREQUENCY INDEX(LTIF)1 the safety culture, particularly among production, 12.5 maintenance and distribution staff. • Investments in upgrading of, and improvements in, 9.2 TREND CURVE operating equipment. 8.4 • Organizing a General Shut Down in the first quarter of 6.0 the year, in which: 5.5 a thorough review was conducted of all work in terms 4.0 2.3 2.8 of health and safety, resulting in completion of work 2.2 2.0 without any incident of injury or fire. 0.9 measurements were taken of chemicals present in the work place, the readings showing no presence above 1993-1997 1998-2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 the statutory permitted limits. • Systematic recording, grouping and assessment of Lost Time Injuries Frequency = Number of accidents per million working hours observations on health and safety, resulting from work conducted during the General Shutdown, in order to improve future maintenance activity. The Lost Time Injuries Frequency Index has been relatively low in recent years, standing at 2.0 in 2011, compared with • Classification of liquid chemicals and additives used at 2.2 in the previous year. At the refinery the LTIF Index declined to 2.2 in 2011, from 3.0 in 2010, while the target for 2011 the refinery into groups, according to degree of hazard, had been set at 2.8. 3. HEALTH AND SAFETY 3. HEALTH AND SAFETY 62 63 In 2011, the total cost of the investment programme (of MOTOR OIL GROUP all Group companies) on projects to improve health HEALTH AND SAFETY INVESTMENTS AND OPERATING EXPENDITURE IN 2011 (IN THOUSAND EUROS) LOST TIME INJURIES SEVERITY INDEX (LTIS) 1 and safety and to procure safety and medical equipment 2.3 amounted to 10.7 million euros, while the cost of 2.0 TREND CURVE operating expenditure of all kinds in this area was 5.1 Investments 10,730 1.6 million euros. Fire safety 546 1.5 Emergency response 163 1.1 Thus the total cost of investments and operating 1.0 1.0 expenditure in this area for 2011 was 15.8 million euros, Personal protection equipment and surgery 174 0.8 up 25.6% on the corresponding figure for 2010. equipment 0.5 Risk reduction 9,588 0.4 The increase is due to a significant rise in the relevant Security measures 259 0.1 budgets for the refinery, and also to the incorporation of Coral and Coral Gas over the whole calendar Operating expenses 5,077 1993-1997 1998-2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 year, compared to last year when they were only Total investments and operating 15,807 incorporated for the period July-December. expenses Index of Lost Time Injuries Severity = Number of lost man-hours per thousand working hours It should be noted that the above-mentioned figures HEALTH AND SAFETY INVESTMENTS The above result should be correlated with the value of the Lost Time Injuries Severity Index, which stood at 0.8 on do not include costs of routine maintenance -which AND OPERATING EXPENSES the Group level, compared with 0.5 in 2010. have direct implications for safetynor safety related (IN THOUSAND EUROS) components of investments related to work on major At the refinery, where the target for the year was 0.5, the indicator stood at 0.8. These figures indicate a greater severextensions and upgrades to the refinery, the total costs ity of accidents in 2011 than in the previous year (higher number of working hours lost). of which amounted to several million euros. The greatest part of the above-mentioned investments Although the LTI and LTIF indices are within the 15,807 Lost-time injuries (LTIs) were thoroughly analysed so as are associated with projects, whose aim is to reduce the 12,586 targets set, and the overall trend is downward, the 10,870 to identify causes and the preventive measures that need risk of accidents and to improve working conditions, as Group’s management is offering steady support to be taken. well as projects aimed at upgrading fire safety measures 7,062 8,034 to programmes to educate the workforce and at our facilities. to strengthening technical and organizational These statistics relate to the company’s own employees measures to ensure we remain committed to our and do not include Lost-time accidents involving sub2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 ‘Zero accidents’ objective. contractors’ employees, the level of which remains very low. For example, in 2011 there were two accidents recorded at the refinery, the same figure as in 2010; in 2009 there was one accident, and in 2008 no accidents were recorded. Finally, we should note that, as in previous 1. Note: Includes the companies MOTOR OIL, Αvin Oil (since 2006), Coral and Coral Gas (since 2010). years, no case of occupational illness was recorded in 2011. Upgrading of Power Management System (P.M.S.) The refinery’s upgraded Power Management System came on line in early 2011. The original system had been introduced 3. Health and safety investments in 2005 at a total cost of 3.1 million euros, and the upgrading represented a further investment of 0.8 million euros. Compelling reasons for this upgrading were the issue of reliability, and the occurrence of operating problems arising from the very large number of parameters (more than 100,000) the P.M.S. is called on to handle, their values changing Improvements in working conditions and in the safety of the work environment are achieved by making the necessary twice each second. investments in equipment, through the upgrading of existing or the introduction of new procedures, and by means of Health and Safety inspections. TECHNICAL FEATURES • The upgraded P.M.S. comprises two separate systems: the Supervisory Control and Data Acquisition System (SCADA), The refinery design, construction and operation is in accordance with Greek and international regulations and the PowerMax load-shedding system. and standards. Nevertheless, a comprehensive investment programme in the proper maintenance of • The SCADA System was upgraded in both hardware and software, and has become faster, more user-friendly and electrical, mechanical and electronic equipment and in technical upgrading and renewal of that equipment more reliable. is continually implemented, taking account of developing technology, so as to maintain the highest possible • The PowerMax System was upgraded with state-of-the-art technology and greater computing power; the operating standards of safety and accident prevention. system was changed from Windows XP to Linux, for greater stability, and duplicate data processing units were added 3. HEALTH AND SAFETY 3. HEALTH AND SAFETY 64 65 for greater safety in case of breakdowns. For exactly the same reason, duplicate channels of communication were SAFETY AND ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION The stability of the electrical network based on timely 4. Inspections introduced between the processing units. and accurate diagnosis of and response to any faults that • The Central Data Processing Units at each electricity may occur in the internal network or the external grid Our company takes extremely seriously the continuous supervision of production and distribution equipment, work sub-station were replaced with faster and more reliable is of vital importance in the smooth and uninterrupted places and fire safety systems, as well as the identification of risks through scheduled Health and Safety inspections. units. operation of the refinery facilities. At the refinery, planned Health and Safety inspections are carried out by both internal inspection teams and external • The PowerMax and SCADA Systems use separate and • A sudden shutdown of refinery operations owing to an safety auditors, including Greek and foreign consultants. independent communication networks, to ensure that electrical problem leads to increased gas emissions from data from one system cannot be confused with data the flares, with deleterious effects for local people and Hot-works and work in confined spaces are subject to a programme of intensive from the other. Additional software makes the system the environment. much more user-friendly. • In the event of an emergency incident involving a total auditing and inspection. The Health, Safety and Environment Section carries out • A Control Centre has been set up for both Systems, or partial shutdown of the refinery, fires might be 5-7 inspections a day. The annual total for 2011 was close to 1,900. where the operator can now extract the information he caused by leaks in the product piping, or by expansion requires and take the necessary actions. and contraction due to temperature differences. The • Also the old P.M.S. Supervision and Operation Centre in P.M.S. allows selective power load-shedding in the event Projects under construction are subject to daily, ad hoc Heads, Engineers and Supervisors from different refinery the Power Plant Control Room has been upgraded. of such an occurrence. inspections, while planned Horizontal Inspections -carried sections. Each section of the refinery will undergo four • The P.M.S. will also issue warnings of impending out by teams of different composition and mandate, such inspections each year, one for every shift. In 2011, RESULTS OF UPGRADING problems in the operation of critical equipment, comprising refinery executives and other competent 147 new recommendations were put forward following • The P.M.S. can be operated much more easily by the or faults in electrical equipment, so that a sudden personnelare performed according to an annual vertical inspections covering all refinery sections; 158 user from all three of the refinery Control Centres. shutdown of refinery facilities can be avoided. schedule, as follows: recommendations were implemented (including some Having three Control Centres means that any electrical from the previous year) and 364 remained pending. incident can be diagnosed immediately and promptly Since it came on line in 2005 the P.M.S. has helped ensure • Safety and Environment Inspections: Carried out by corrected. that the frequent electrical irregularities in the network four-member teams headed by a section head and In addition to the above, technical inspections and • The new Power-Max System can process and react in (whether due to internal or external causes), which including engineers and supervisors as members. There monitoring of equipment carried out by the Technical just 28 milliseconds to any critical electrical fault on the often led to unit shutdowns, are no longer a threat to are 24 such teams, each responsible for inspecting, once Department also have a safety dimension in that they lead network, ensuring in combination with the increased the smooth running of the refinery, with the consequent a year, six of the 24 sections into which the refinery is to measures which reduce hazard and risk and contribute generating capacity of the refinery power plant shutdowns now being practically eliminated. divided for this purpose. to the improvement of occupational health and safety smooth and uninterrupted operation of all its power conditions. The scheduling and management of such generating facilities. • Executive Safety and Environment Inspections: Carried inspection/monitoring and maintenance activity is based out by teams headed by the refinery General Manager on the use of sophisticated computer systems -such as and including departmental managers and the Head of the Plant Condition Management System (PCMS)that the Health, Safety and Environment Section. help to determine the most effective and safe technical operating conditions of equipment, combined with the Recommendations for improvements in working most efficient use of resources. conditions and safety also arise following meetings of the Safety and Environment Committee and the Employee Finally, the company takes special care to ensure the Health and Safety Committee. operational readiness of the fire prevention system and the installed fire-fighting equipment. The routine The findings and recommendations arising from the and periodically scheduled checking of these facilities is above-mentioned horizontal inspection procedures, carried out according to a very carefully planned annual and recommendations arising from meetings of the two programme under the supervision of the Fire Safety committees, after evaluation, lead to appropriate technical Service. or organizational measures being taken. In 2011, in total 718 new recommendations were put forward, while 696 were implemented (including some pending from the previous year), with another 211 recommendations pending at the end of the year. Vertical Inspections were introduced in 2009; these are performed, on a three-monthly basis, by Section 3. HEALTH AND SAFETY 3. HEALTH AND SAFETY 66 67 Whenever changes are made to workplaces or to We enforce safety rules in all situations so as to ensure working practices, these risk assessments are reviewed full implementation of precautionary measures and so as to ensure they are always relevant and up-tocompliance with safe working procedures. In this context, date. Monitoring of the procedure has become even the protocol related to the issue of Permits to Work is more intensive and methodical in the context of our particularly important in ensuring high levels of worker compliance with OHSAS certification requirements. protection during repair and maintenance operations; for Within each refinery section, occupational hazards this reason, the issuing of these Permits is the subject and risks identified are classified into three categories of continuous training activity, covering both those who according to the hazard level: low, medium or high. For issue them and those who receive them, both company each hazard category, a schedule for the completion of employees and any sub-contractor personnel who may be measures to eliminate hazards or to reduce risk to as low involved in work activities on the refinery site. as practicable is determined and personal responsibility for completion of these actions is allocated. In order to properly assess risk associated with particular refinery operations, detailed hazard and operability • Low risk: measures to be put into effect within one year. (HAZOP) studies are carried out. Likewise, the studies • Medium risk: measures to be put into effect within six required by the regulations on fire safety are conducted; months. other safety studies are prepared and communicated • High risk: measures to be put into effect within one for approval and registration as appropriate with the 5. Procedures week. competent authorities. Technical integrity of equipment, compliance with international standards and safe working conditions are amongst the Compliance with these schedules is monitored by the Specifications have been issued for all types of safety primary factors ensuring safety in the workplace. Even more important is how individuals behave (the “human factor”). Health, Safety and Environment Section, while senior equipment (i.e. personal protective equipment, fireRefinery employees are able to perform their work safely not only as a result of the strict work procedures they are management is accordingly kept informed. fighting equipment, etc.), and in order to facilitate its required to follow and as a result of having been provided with appropriate skills and competencies, but also because effective replacement as and when necessary, equipment they have been trained in safety awareness. We provide appropriate and adequate training to all our types are so far as possible standardised. Safety workers covering: information and instruction relevant equipment specifications are amended and updated in line COMPLYING WITH LEGISLATION Besides official regulatory documentation, the database to the hazards arising from their work, measures for the with technological developments. The company is fully aware of, and strictly complies contains other significant resources relating to refinery elimination of hazards or control of risk, correct use of with, all relevant Greek and European Health and Safety safety, including: all training material; the complete personal protective equipment, safe working practices, legislation, while it also applies any relevant international internal safety regulations for the refinery; hazard and risk appropriate emergency response procedures and first aid standards, codes of practice and other operational norms, assessment reports covering all individuals workplaces; provision. where these are judged likely to help achieve even higher specifications for all safety equipment (e.g. personal standards of protection than would be achieved by legal protective equipment -PPEand fire fighting equipment), compliance alone. and material safety data sheets (MSDS). An independent third party certifies full and HAZARD IDENTIFICATION, RISK ASSESSMENT AND comprehensive implementation of legislation in our CONTROL internal procedures and operations. We are continually engaged in establishing best practices for identification of health and safety hazards in all areas We have also developed a database containing all health and in implementing procedures for their elimination. and safety provisions of Greek law relevant to the The framework for hazard identification and control refinery’s operations. It is constantly updated and made is provided by Greek legislation (Presidential Decree available to all employees on the company intranet. 17/1996 and Law 3850/2010) and by other European and This database is exceptionally important, not only for international codes of practice. the legality of our operations, but also for the wealth of information it contains on a wide range of issues, Systematic risk assessment studies have been carried out including hazard identification and control, the drafting for all sections, all workplaces and all hazard types within of emergency preparedness plans, maximum acceptable the refinery site and appropriate measures to eliminate levels of exposure to hazardous substances, the use of hazards -or to control risks to acceptable levelshave chemical substances and the relevant precautions, etc. been taken. 3. HEALTH AND SAFETY 3. HEALTH AND SAFETY 68 69 Indicative actions in safety REPORTS, MEASUREMENTS AND INDICES procedures during 2011 We regularly report, record, investigate and analyze incidents (fires, accidents, near-misses) using internationally recognized indices in order to take the appropriate • Work has commenced on preparing a HAZOP study corrective and preventive measures, while enhancing for the Vacuum Distillation unit in the Catalytic our experience by monitoring investigations of serious Cracking Complex. accidents at comparable facilities abroad and incorpo• The Emergency Response Plan for a large-scale rating their findings in our own practice. technological accident in the refinery and port has been revised. We systematically record and file all relevant opera• We have continued implementation of the tional data, which create a picture of our health and monitoring and evaluation of contractors to verify safety performance, so as to monitor this performance their compliance with health and safety rules while statistically. At the same time, through goal-setting and working in the refinery facilities. This monitoring benchmarking on the basis of internationally-established programme was initiated in 2006. Regular breach performance indicators we seek to achieve continuous of the rules is sanctioned in the form of graduated improvements and to highlight potential weaknesses disciplinary measures, reflecting the severity of the and vulnerabilities. infringements. The programme generates a reliability table for contractors, where they are ranked PROTECTION (SECURITY) according to evaluation of infringements detected. We take all necessary preventive measures to protect • We have carried out an internal inspection-evaluation our installations against possible security threats, both of 8 procedures in the Health and Safety Management deliberate and non-deliberate. Those of our personnel System. Existing procedures were revised and a new responsible for this protection are suitably trained, both procedure to safeguard quality of drinking water was introduced. in security and safety matters, so as to be able to effectively and swiftly fulfil their responsibilities, being fully 6. Planned shutdowns • A significant number of Materials Safety Data Sheets were revised, as part of our implementation of aware of the duties assigned to them, while at the same time fully respecting individual freedoms and fundamenNew projects the provisions of the European REACH and CLP tal human rights. Every year, planned shutdowns of refinery units take place which are necessary to allow for periodic maintenance to regulations in regard to the refinery’s products. • Participation in international organizations dedicated be carried out and thus ensure their reliable operation, both in respect of efficiency and in respect of safe operation, to exploring and achieving continual improvement in while construction works on new projects are constantly carried out. These may be major shutdowns over a significant rules and practices. period of time, like the General Shutdown at the refinery allowing the maintenance work carried out in JanuaryFebruary 2011. To avoid accidents during planned and Inspection teams are established at such times, headed by executives from the Health, Safety and Environment unplanned shutdowns, a methodical Section and staffed by engineers from the Technical approach is required, with continuous Department, according to the specific circumstances and the type of unit being shut down. The teams are supervision while work is being carried charged with the duty of continuous monitoring of the out. maintenance works with respect to application of safety rules, so that immediate corrective measures can be Such extended shutdowns of refinery units require taken if any irregularities arise. vigilance and special precautionary safety measures, because of the greatly increased risk of accidents, which During 2011, a number of construction projects were include: provision of information to all personnel involved completed or under way, work on which was carried in order to ensure they are aware of the necessary out without accidents. In addition to the General safety measures and to empower their safety awareness; Shutdown, there were two other planned shutdowns, daily co-operation with site managers for identifying and five unplanned shutdowns. All of these were handled hazards or unsafe conditions and for the concomitant successfully without accidents. implementation of corrective measures; and daily site safety inspections. 3. HEALTH AND SAFETY 3. HEALTH AND SAFETY 70 71 7. The REACH Regulation co-operate in the event of an emergency, which dates from 1988. The effectiveness of this collaboration is • The fixed and portable equipment for fire detection, fire-fighting, and leakage detection and containing, which ensured through joint exercises involving MOTOR OIL, are upgraded according to a regular annual investment The European Union REACH Regulation (Registration, Evaluation and Authorization of Chemicals) came into force on the local fire brigade and the other refineries. plan. 1 June 2007. The Regulation is intended to rationalize European legislation on human health safety and environmental • The safety drills, organized weekly, and the preparedness • The availability on the refinery site of six fire engines protection from the potential effects of various chemical substances. At the same time, the Regulation has shifted exercises on dealing with major accidents that are and one 12,000-litre bulk foam tender, that are available responsibility for investigating the impacts of production, distribution and use of these substances to the industry itself. organized several times a year. During these exercises, on 24-hour standby, and are operated by trained firethe Major Incident Response procedure is activated. fighter crews. The legal framework introduced by the Regulation directly affects producers, importers and final users of chemical Safety drills and major exercises contribute greatly to • The existence of alternative locations for the Incident substances and preparations in the European Union. The ultimate goal is to prohibit the import into, or the production the training and preparedness of employees, and to Control Room at four different strategic points on the within, the EU of any unregistered substance at any quantity above one ton a year. the evaluation and modification of the plan itself. They refinery site, and the availability of a state-of-the-art also contribute to the assessment and upgrading of fire emergency telephone system that provides for refinery After successful completion of the first phase of substance registration, MOTOR OIL, through its participation in prevention equipment, since one of the outputs from staff to be contacted at times of emergency outside of various organizations and consortia (CONCAWE, FERC, MERC), remains ready to respond to any requirements that these exercises, as far as fire safety is concerned, are normal working hours. may arise, is monitoring developments and preparing for the subsequent second phase of substance registration (2013). recommendations for further improvements to fire safety facilities. 9. Port installations safety We give the highest priority to security measures relating to our port facilities in order to prevent any incident whatsoever, which apart from any other consequences, may also cause accidents or marine pollution. It should be noted that, in 2004, MOTOR OIL became the first Greek company to be certified by the Ministry of Mercantile Marine for compliance with the International Ship and Port Facility Security (ISPS) Code, which is applied according to the requirements of chapter XI-2 of the International Convention for the Safety of Life at Sea (SOLAS). The accreditation is reviewed each year, in accordance with the existing legislative provisions. 8. Emergency response plans Our emergency response arrangements are based on the Emergency Response Plan, which is regularly reviewed and updated to take account of expansions and other changes to the refinery’s configuration, changing legal requirements, and changes to “best practices” resulting from technical developments or experience gained by others in dealing with major or non-major accidents. We have also prepared and submitted studies to the these plans are drafted by the competent authorities and competent authorities, in line with the requirements of determine how the state might intervene in emergency the SEVESO II EU Directive, which describe significant situations. potential accident scenarios and related prevention and confrontation measures. The Emergency Response Plan The Emergency Response Plan prescribes equipment, describes, with particular reference to a major accident organization and facilities available (both internally and situation, the public health protection measures -including from off-site sources) to manage an emergency. warnings for neighbouring communities, and related advicethat would be put into effect in the event that Features of the plan include: the Major Accidents Response Plans were activated; • The Mutual Aid Agreement whereby all Greek refineries 3. HEALTH AND SAFETY 3. HEALTH AND SAFETY 72 73 As required by the ISPS code, drills are carried out every safe docking of vessels at our terminal -according to sixteen months to practice response to sea pollution, Ministry of Mercantile Marine guidelines, and international with the cooperation and participation of local port codes and conventionsto be a prerequisite for the best authorities. The last drill of this type was conducted in possible protection of both our installations and the 2010, with very satisfactory results. vessels themselves. The Port Information and Regulations The revised Port Information and Regulations became consolidate all provisions arising from the ISPS Code, applicable in year 2007. We consider the existence of while describing clearly and in detail our minimum these regulations, which are specific to our port and requirements relating to safety and security, as well as the codify in a single volume all the requirements for the measures to be taken to avoid pollution. 10. Safeguarding workforce health 11. Education, briefing and collaborations The continuous training of our employees, their updating with the required information, the creation of a high level Safeguarding the health of our workforce and their workplace safety are key areas of concern. For refinery personnel of safety awareness, together with the technical and organisational measures, are the essential pillars for accident we have in place a programme of vaccinations and regular medical examinations (including blood tests, X-rays, cardioprevention and the maintenance of a safe work environment. This fundamental approach underpins the Health and grams, eye tests, etc.). Safety Management System of MOTOR OIL. A comprehensive occupational health service is provided • The quality of drinking water is subject to periodical at the refinery, with the appropriate personnel and analysis by an independent laboratory, and staff working Considerable emphasis is placed on the systematic supply WORKFORCE TRAINING material resources in place to provide medical and firstat the refinery’s restaurant are subject to periodical of Health and Safety information to sub-contractors who In order to raise safety awareness among refinery personaid services, including: medical checks as required by law. are materially involved in carrying out various refinery site nel, safety messages and posters, the results of accident • Central Medical Centre staffed by an occupational • The effective protection of employees from exposure works, in particular relating to the general principles of and near-miss investigations, etc., are displayed on 13 physician and nurses, provided with the necessary to toxic substances that might harm their health accident prevention and the safe work procedures of the Health and Safety notice boards, reserved for this purhospital equipment to deal with emergencies. is monitored through workplace concentration company, the aim being to ensure the safe execution of pose, and located throughout the refinery site. • Pharmacy stocked with medicines, dressings and other measurements, in accordance with the provisions of their work assignments. In 2011 particular emphasis was laid on training of newly medical supplies. the relevant legislation. In 2010 a special procedure was recruited operators in safety and fire safety issues, and • Fully equipped first-aid station at the Alkylation Unit, set up to regulate these measurements, while back in Visitors are given safety instructions in the form of a on retraining of all engineers on-duty in responding to a with nurse on 24-hour call. 2009 our company had already prepared a special study special leaflet, while a special briefing film is screened for major incident at the refinery and port, as well as training • Three suitably-equipped first aid stations (located in the showing that concentrations of all chemicals were lower them on entry to the refinery facilities. of all refinery staff not belonging to fire safety crews in Central Control Room, the Chemical Laboratory and than the exposure limit value. putting out fires using hand-held extinguishers. the Hydrocracker Complex). • Finally, a fully equipped medical centre, staffed by three The general content of health and safety training includes • Equipment for the production of electrocardiograms doctors, is located at the company’s head offices to the following subjects: • Training of rescue teams by the First Search and Rescue (ECG) to cover situations where there is an emergency care for their staff. An occupational health service and • Fires fire safety use of fire fighting equipment Team (EMAK) of the Elefsina Fire Brigade in rescue of requirement for cardiological examination, which makes arrangements for general medical procedures and • Carrying out preparedness exercises. persons at risk in inaccessible parts of the refinery, at a it possible for ECG reports to be transferred to a screening examinations are also in place for the benefit • Permits to Work. great height from the ground. special cardiology centre for acquiring an immediate of other subsidiary companies of the Group (Avin Oil, • Work in confined spaces. diagnosis and recommendations for treatment from a CORAL, CORAL GAS and OFC). • Identification of occupational hazards and risk Moreover, the structured efforts to educate the technispecialist cardiologist. evaluation. cal staff of our facilities were continued through films and • Three fully-equipped ambulances. • Personal Protective Equipment. presentations/discussions on incidents, analyzing causes, • Classification, packaging and labelling of hazardous effects and the corrective measures taken. In addition: substances. • Fire-fighting crews are also trained in rescue practices • Material Safety Data Sheets. and in first aid provision. • Emergency response procedures and participation in • Specifications have been issued covering Personal relevant drills. Protective Equipment supplied to employees. These • First-aid. specifications are aimed at facilitating the effective • Cleanliness ergonomics. replacement of this equipment, and its so far as possible • Presentations analyses of accidents occurring abroad. standardisation; these specifications are amended and • Safe road transport of fuels (to Group’s commercial updated in line with technological developments and companies) relevant EU specifications. 3. HEALTH AND SAFETY 3. HEALTH AND SAFETY 74 75 BRIEFING FOR CONTRACTORS’ EMPLOYEES HEALTH AND SAFETY TRAINING IN 2011 IN Briefings of contractors’ employees working at our NUMBERS facilities continued in 2011, with: • A training programme (including provision of information, MOTOR OIL Other Group question-and-answer sessions, recording results in companies1 a database, issuing certificates of attendance on the Employees 1,244 684 course) for all employees of contractors who are issued Employees 907 329 with Permits to Work. The general component of this receiving training training concerns Health and Safety matters relevant to aspects of refinery work, while a further, specialist Training man11,155 2,774 component addresses 29 different types of jobs. This hours briefing programme lasts eight hours, and in 2011 the sessions were attended by 101 persons. Contractors 456 191 • Toolbox Meetings that are held on the first Monday of receiving training every month, attended by the subcontractors working Training man1,128 874 on the refinery site at that time; they are concerned hours with Health and Safety issues relevant to the work they 1. Avin Oil, Coral, Coral Gas and OFC. are engaged on, and -mainlyprovide an opportunity for discussion about irregularities noted during workplace inspections. COLLABORATIONS In attaining our objectives and ensuring a responsible approach to health and safety issues, collaboration with other stakeholders is regarded as essential. To this Fire safety training improve fire protection for facility equipment, 11 of which were implemented immediately while the other end, we cooperate closely with national organizations 10 were entered on the refinery safety project list for and institutions, while Greek Refineries Cooperation In order to improve the readiness of refinery personnel implementation upon completion of a technical study. Meetings on Health, Safety and Environment issues to respond to emergency situations, as well as to are organized and attended by representatives of the rehearse the procedures of the Emergency Response In addition, in 2011: refineries, the competent ministries, local government, the Plan and check the operability of equipment, regular • For the purpose of upgrading the level of training of fire department, academics and other stakeholders. emergency preparedness exercises are carried out. The the fire safety crews, a special six-month programme 2011 programme featured 12 training sessions on the of training was introduced, involving 120 meetings over Also, in 2011 MOTOR OIL and Avin Oil entered into a exercise field and 42 drills (one a week), nine of which the six-month period. The training sessions were also collaboration with the Technical University of Crete evolved into a full major incident response exercise. attended by new operators, acting as reserve crews, within the European programme PROTEAS, under About half of these drills were pre-announced and preto learn the operation and use of the fire engines and the title «REACH Protocol on emissions and accident scheduled, while the rest were impromptu, i.e. with no gradually ready themselves to man the crews. scenarios in the supply and movement of fuels and warning of the date, time, location or scenario, involving • All shift-workers passed the annual training in the use of petrochemicals». the deployment of emergency response equipment as Respiratory Protective Equipment. well. • The weekly training of the rescue team continued in Finally, the company’s cooperation with the First The pre-scheduled drills took place in various areas of operation. Search and Rescue Team (EMAK) of the Elefsina Fire the refinery and the fire crew training field, involving • Training sessions were held to maintain training levels Brigade is extremely important. EMAK officers provide rehearsal of fire crews in the theoretical and practical for fire engine drivers and reserve drivers, familiarizing invaluable training to the refinery’s Emergency Rescue aspects of their duties, and their familiarisation with them with access to various areas and the equipment in Teams and generously (without charge) pass on their fire-fighting equipment and related Personal Protective new units. experience relating to the rescue of people at risk in Equipment. • There were also training sessions for a new fire crew inaccessible parts of the refinery, high above ground level. Desk-top exercises were also organized at department general manager and 6 new crew leaders, as well as In November 2011 regular training was offered to the control rooms (for all shifts) in the presence of area staff all the new drivers, to familiarize them with the fire refinery rescue teams (40 persons from 4 shifts, total and fire safety crews, examining issues of special interest. engines and their movement around the refinery. training of 2 days per shift) by officers from the First The refinery’s engineers on-duty participated in the fire • Finally, the refinery office staff, security staff, restaurant Search and Rescue Team. The training involved both safety drills. and storeroom staff were trained in the correct and rescue theory and practical exercises in the refinery It should be noted that the fire safety drill programme safe use of fire extinguishers. grounds. for 2011 led to 21 observations on new projects to 3. HEALTH AND SAFETY 3. HEALTH AND SAFETY 76 77 This training programme has an overall duration of 4 ROAD SAFETY years. It is designed to develop a good practice protocol meeting the necessary provisions of the health, safety and environment management systems for all those involved In 2011 more than 350 passenger vehicle and tanker drivers received training in managing chemical hazards during supply or movement in road safety, in implementation of the road safety education guidelines. of fuels, petrochemicals and other hazardous substances in Greece. Fuels are a category of hazardous materials and their safe the Regulation for the “Safe Road Tanker Loading at Fuel transport requires precautionary measures to be taken at Terminals”, issued by the Hellenic Petroleum Marketing three levels, i.e.: Companies Association (SEEPE). • The maintenance of a high technical standard of transport equipment, in particular the safety and This check extends to the full compliance with the terms reliability of road tankers. included in the European Agreement concerning the • The promulgation and implementation of strict safety Carriage of Dangerous Goods by Road (ADR). procedures and the monitoring of their implementation. The 31st Meeting of Greek Refineries on issues • The continuous updating and training of road tanker drivers. There is also an ongoing training programme in basic skills involving safe and defensive driving, loading/unloading of Health, Safety, Fire Safety and the Environprocedures, anti-skid and anti-rollover manoeuvres, ment The Group’s commercial companies -Avin Oil, Coral and Coral Gasin running their business operations fuel chemistry, handling of customer complaints, vehicle safety equipment, steam recovery, etc. In recent years in a responsible manner, have always strived to ensure the programme has also incorporated a detailed analysis MOTOR OIL had the honour of organizing the 31st Meet• Health and safety management in General Shutdown of that the above precautions are taken, and that the of the routes taken by our tanker drivers, so that the ing of Greek Refineries on issues of Health, Safety, Fire MOTOR OIL refinery in 2011. regulations prescribed by the state and by the oil industry safest route is always taken for each journey. GPS tracking Safety and the Environment, held at Loutraki on 24 and • Health: impact of work-related factors on health of itself are maintained. In order to achieve this goal, they devices have also been fitted to tankers to allow closer 25 November. employees. have established Integrated Transport Safety Systems monitoring of driver behaviour (speed, route taken, etc.). • Pollution: the new European Directive 2010/75/EC on encompassing the registration and monitoring of all The proceedings were formally opened by MOTOR OIL’s integrated pollution prevention and control (IPPC). road tankers involved in the transportation of fuels for Every year’s training sessions cover part of this General Manager of Refinery Manufacturing, Mr. M. Ste• REACH Regulation and general requirements of EC their own account, (which applies to both the company programme, so that over a 2-3 year cycle all new drivers iakakis. Greetings were also addressed to the conference Regulation on Chemical Substances. owned vehicles and those owned by subcontracted receive their training and existing drivers receive top-up by the Deputy Governor of the Region of Peloponnese, freight companies), and the training of all drivers that are training. Mr. A. Papafotiou, while the introductory address was The conference proceedings concluded with an identificaengaged in the operation of these road tankers. made by Mr. G. Palaiokrassas, Head of the Health, Safety tion of topics requiring further attention and study, such and Environment Section of the MOTOR Oil Refinery. as a standard approach to certified contractors’ staff in A thorough annual safety check is carried out on all the issuing of Permits to Work at refineries, cooperation road tankers in accordance with the requirements of The main topics addressed by the conference were as between refineries and the state in respect of measures follows: relating to the new European Directive 2010/75/EC on • Management of the General Major Industrial and integrated pollution prevention and control, and the Technological Incident Response Plan (SΑΤΑΜΕ) and management of tasks in the context of scheduled mainteemergency planning. nance work. • Safety Studies, environmental licensing, location of polluting plants and fuel tanks. • Safety the role of safe maintenance at facilities harbouring risk of major incident. • Incident analysis: accident at the Tesoro Anacortes Refinery, USA and fire after explosion at Indian Oil Company petroleum products facility in Jaipur, India. • Issues in implementation of Directive SEVESO II • Health, Safety & Environment Protocol relating to stages in movement, loading and unloading of petroleum products. 4. RESPONSIBILITY 4. RESPONSIBILITY 78 FOR THE ENVIRONMENT FOR THE ENVIRONMENT 79 RESPONSIBILITY FOR THE ENVIRONMENT Protection of the environment and energy-saving are among our primary concerns Respect and care for the environment is a common denominator in all activities of the MOTOR OIL Group. We operate competitively but, at the same time, as a responsible corporate organisation we espouse the principles of sustainable development; that is, development which is based on environmental protection, mutual respect and responsibility towards future generations. For these reasons we continue 24.4% THE REDUCTION IN THE SPECIFIC CARBON with investments aimed at the steady improvement of our environmental performance. In 2011 work was completed on ensuring full energy self-sufficiency for the refinery, with the DIOXIDE EMISSIONS INDICATOR (2006-2011) AND addition to the Power Cogeneration Complex of a fifth combined-cycle, high energy efficiency 24.3% gas turbine, raising the installed power to 85MW. In 2010 the new Crude Distillation Unit came into operation, as well as the new Sulphur THE REDUCTION IN THE SPECIFIC ENERGY Recovery Units, which incorporate Best Available Techniques and state-of-the-art anti-pollution CONSUMPTION INDICATOR (2005-2011) technology. 2011 was the first year of full, 12-month operation for these investments, improving the environmental performance of the refinery. We have invested 40.1 million euros in large and small projects to protect the environment, both 40.1 directly and indirectly. Our environmental footprint -as measured by declining specific energy and water consumptions and specific sulphur dioxide emissionscontinued dropping off. million euros In addition, we revised a number of the Environmental Management System procedures, and published our annual voluntary Environmental Statement 2010, in accordance with the EMAS III IN INVESTMENTS AND OPERATING ER 1221/2009 regulation. EXPENSES FOR THE ENVIRONMENT BEST AVAILABLE TECHNIQUES AND STATE -OF-THE-ART ANTI-POLLUTION TECHNOLOGY IN WIDESPREAD USE 4. RESPONSIBILITY 4. RESPONSIBILITY 80 FOR THE ENVIRONMENT FOR THE ENVIRONMENT 81 Environmental objectives The Environmental Management System is an effective tool for implementing and monitoring compliance with the various environmental protection policy objectives, which are: • Keeping abreast of, and complying fully, with all preparing, implementing and testing the appropriate Greek and EU environmental protection legislative emergency response procedures. requirements. • Training of, and awareness-raising among, all our • Distributing products that comply with the European personnel and contractors’ employees who work quality and environmental protection norms, by taking on our premises, on the implementation of our steps to upgrade production facilities accordingly. environmental protection policy. • Operating the refinery facilities within the framework of • Evaluating our environmental performance and approved environmental terms. continuously improving our Environmental Management • Planning and implementing investment projects with due System. regard for the need to minimise environmental impacts. • Developing communication and dialogue with all • Applying Best Available Techniques to the greatest stakeholders, especially with local communities in areas possible extent. around the company’s facilities. 1. Environmental management • Monitoring and continually minimising the emissions of greenhouse gases, as well as those of other pollutants, and of solid and liquid waste, as far as technically and Our principal aim is to ensure that our facilities operate in the most energy efficient manner possible, to minimize economically possible. emissions of greenhouse gases and other pollutants, to function within the framework of approved environmental • Monitoring and, as far as possible, minimising, the terms, to rigorously adhere to the relevant Greek and European legislation, and to implement projects and actions that consumption of energy. go beyond basic legal compliance. • Pre-empting risks of environmental pollution, reducing the probability of environmental accidents, and Selection of the most efficient means and measures to reduce environmental impact covers the entire spectrum of our activities; from the selection of technologies when building new process units, to the practices applied during the refinery’s daily operation, and from the use of advanced process control systems to the training provided to employees working at the refinery. The company’s Environmental Management System was Eco-Management and Audit Scheme (EMAS), as provided first ISO-certified in 2000, according to ISO 14000:1996. for in European Union Regulation 1221/2009. This system ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT SYSTEM In 2004 it was certified compliant with ISO 14000:2004, requires that we implement appropriate procedures for The focal commitment of the company to the ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT in 2007, it was certified compliant with the new version the identification of the material environmental impacts minimization of the environmental impact resulting from SYSTEM ISO 14001:2004, while in 2008 the certification expanded arising from our activities, and define strategies and its operation is expressed through our Health, Safety to include the production, trade and delivery of biofuels, implement programmes to mitigate them, insofar as is and Environmental Protection Policy. Our commitment asphalt and special petroleum products. In 2010, the reasonably possible. could not be realised without the application of an system was re-certified, by Bureau Veritas, confirming effective environmental management system that has Continuous compliance with ISO 14001:2004. Additionally, within the framework of EMAS, the company Improvement been certified compliant with international standards. is committed to publishing, on an annual basis, information This system ensures that environmental performance The Environmental Management System is part of the about its environmental performance in the form of an is measured systematically and that activities requiring Management review • Improvement recommendations Integrated Management System, which is ISO 9001:2008 Environmental Statement, as required by its membership intervention and improvement are identified. Thus, the • Implementation commitment ISO 14001: 2004 certified for quality. Therefore, the various internal to the Eco-Management and Audit Scheme System, an principle of prevention is successfully implemented and Control EMAS III ER 1221/2009 operations and procedures of the Environmental arrangement that has to be endorsed annually by decision • Monitoring and resources are allocated so as to achieve the maximum measurement • Non-compliance Health, Safety Management System are themselves subject to the strict of the Ministry of the Environment, Energy and Climate and possible environmental benefit. • Corrective and preventive actions Environmental documentation imposed by the ISO 9001:2008 standard. Change. In 2011, MOTOR OIL issued its BV-certified • Archives Policy • Inspections Implementation and Environmental Statement 2010, its fifth such annual report. operation Planning • Structure and responsibilities • Environmental aspects Our commitment to making public any data relating It should be noted that, in the oil refining sector, the triple • Training awarenessraising • Communication • Legal and other requirements to our environmental performance and the effects combination of certified compliance with ISO 14001:2004 • Goals and objectives • Documentation • Document control • Environmental programmes arising from the operation of our facilities, as expressly and EMAS, in respect of environmental performance, • Operational control • Emergency response mentioned in our Environmental Policy, has led to the and ISO 9001:2008, in respect of quality management, voluntary adoption and application of the European is particularly significant and provides advantages at 4. RESPONSIBILITY 4. RESPONSIBILITY 82 FOR THE ENVIRONMENT FOR THE ENVIRONMENT 83 many levels. Such multiple certification is unusual among and water pollution, or the contamination of soil, and is effective management and continuous improvement of environmental impacts, with the aim of minimising these European refineries as complex as MOTOR OIL’s. ensuring the most effective means are adopted to deal the company’s environmental performance. impacts as far as practicable, incorporating Best Available with all environmental protection aspects of the refinery’s Techniques and choosing the most environmentally The new environmental terms on which the refinery operations. When new projects are being planned, alternative friendly solution. must operate, approved and put into effect in 2009, place designs are evaluated taking account of their respective all the refinery facilities, including ancillary facilities like In 2011, as part of efforts to secure the ongoing evolution the Tanker Loading Station and the port installations, and improvement of the Environmental Management under the requirements of Directives 96/61/ΕC (IPPC, System, eleven processes and procedures were reviewed. Integrated Pollution Prevention and Control) and 2011/80/ ΕC on limiting emissions into the atmosphere of certain 3. Environmental investments and expenses pollutants from major combustion facilities. The new The company’s investment policy is oriented towards producing products that comply with European quality Environmental Terms applying to the refinery require specifications, using technologies that minimize environmental impacts, and towards capital investments aiming at the operation of an integrated monitoring and control improving and enhancing the refinery’s environmental performance. system, aiming at the prevention and avoidance of air Between 2000 and 2011, the Group realised a massive that came into force on 1.1.2009. Investments in “clean investment project, totalling 1,237.6 million euros (as fuels” absorbed 36.9% of total capital investment, shown in the table below), the major part of which while investments for the further improvement of 2. Environmental impact management related to the construction of the new Crude Distillation Unit with its peripheral facilities, which was commissioned environmental performance absorbed an additional 16.4%. In total, environment-related investments amounted to in May 2010, as well as the Hydrocracker complex, and 660.2 million euros, or 53.3% of the total investment MOTOR OIL, in striving to continuously improve its environmental performance, over and above consistent legal its associated facilities, which produces “clean fuels” (i.e. programme. compliance, implements a programme of measures for the prevention and management of the environmental impacts of low sulphur content) satisfying the EU specifications that are unavoidably associated with its operations. An important tool in this endeavour is the measurement, regular evaluation of results, and the systematic assessment of the environmental impacts at all stages of the production process. This assessment is based on a set of criteria -including legislative requirements and stakeholder viewswhich lead to the classification of impacts according to their significance and their characterisation as significant or non-significant. This classification procedure is also carried out whenever there are any changes to the refinery’s configuration, re-evaluating the classification and characterisation of the impacts. This procedure for classifying the environmental impacts CRITERIA FOR EVALUATION OF associated with the refinery’s operation, and their ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT significance classification, has led to the following impacts being classified as significant, therefore constituting the YES EXISTENCE OF LEGISLATIVE challenges we are called upon to manage: REQUIREMENT YES EXISTENCE OF • Gas emissions from fixed combustion sources and from OBJECTIVE/GOAL NON-SIGNIFICANT IMPACT YES the refinery’s production processes. EXISTENCE OF OBJECTION SIGNIFICANT IMPACT • Energy and water consumption. YES EXISTENCE OF 3 COMPLAINTS/YEAR • Hazardous and non-hazardous solid waste. YES • Liquid industrial effluents and urban liquid waste. VALID STAKEHOLDERS’ VIEWS • Noise. YES INDIRECT NO INVOLVING NONThe above environmental impacts are recorded on a NORMAL CONDITIONS NO • ACCIDENT regular basis, and suitable environmental indices are • EMERGENCY used for their monitoring, on the basis of which the HIGH SEVERITY LOW appropriate actions are planned and implemented so as OF IMPACT to ensure that proper measures are taken, and that there HIGH FREQUENCY OF LOW OCCURRENCE 4. RESPONSIBILITY 4. RESPONSIBILITY 84 FOR THE ENVIRONMENT FOR THE ENVIRONMENT 85 GROUP ENVIRONMENTAL INVESTMENTS AND OPERATING EXPENSES 2000 2011 (MILLION EUROS) 4. Best Available Techniques Year 2000-2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Total % The Integrated Pollution Prevention and Control (IPPC) Directive (96/61/EC), prescribes an integrated system for Total capital investments 714.8 51.4 78.4 198.5 123.2 71,3 1,237.6 prevention and control of pollution that may be caused by industrial activities. Environment-related 524.8 21.9 16.7 27.7 33.0 36.1 660.2 53.3% investments This directive introduced the concept of Best Available and when existing facilities are upgraded, in order to For clean fuels 456.3 0.0 0.0 0.5 0.0 0.0 456.8 36.9% Techniques (BATs) into legal requirements. BATs minimise the impacts arising from their operation. At the To improve are techniques that can prevent (primary prevention same time, the company incorporates automations and 68.5 21.9 16.7 27.2 33.0 36.1 203.4 16.4% performance measures that are intrinsic to the production process control systems into the operation of the refinery, that Environmental 15.5 2.9 4.0 4.3 4.6 4.0 35.3 itself), or control (secondary measures or “end-of-pipe” contribute to efficient management of raw materials and operating expenses techniques) -in a most efficient mannerthe pollution energy, while ensuring high levels of reliability and safety in TOTAL caused by an industrial activity, while being economically the units. Finally, Best Available Techniques that reinforce ENVIRONMENTAL feasible and technically practicable. Best Available pollution prevention capacity have been adopted, and are INVESTMENTS 540.3 24.8 20.7 32.0 37.6 40.1 695.5 Techniques for various sectors are prescribed in the applied in the refinery’s daily operations. AND OPERATING EXPENSES relevant Best Available Techniques Reference Documents (BREFs). Some typical examples of BAT applications are shown in the following table: MOTOR OIL incorporates the above-mentioned In 2011, total investments amounted to 71.3 million euros, replacement of compressors and heat exchangers with techniques, both during the design of new refinery units of which 36.1 million euros (50.6% of the total) concerned new more energy-efficient units. projects, whose main purpose was the improvement and protection of the environment. The large-scale projects completed in 2011 and involving improvement of the refinery’s environmental performance PRODUCTION OF FUELS AND LUBRICANTS ANCILLARY FACILITIES were as follows: • Hydrocracker complex. • Use of natural gas. • Upgraded pre-heat furnaces. • Power-steam cogeneration. • Maximisation of refinery-gas recovery techniques. • Low-ΝΟx burners. 695.5 • Completion of work on the fifth gas turbine, which will • Upgrading of Amine Regeneration unit. • Recycling of cooling water. make the refinery self-sufficient in energy use, following • New Sulphur Recovery units and closed-circuit sulphur management. • Reverse osmosis desalination technology. the expansion work, and improve its energy efficiency. • Availability of adequate capacity in decontamination units for mainte• Optimisation of crude oil preheating circuit. nance work and response to system disruption (surplus equipment, • Forced draft furnaces. million euros • The upgrading of the Industrial Waste Water Treatment load-shedding systems, emergency amine systems, multiple washdown systems). • Optimised steam circuit. • Reduction of losses from storage tanks with double seal systems. Plant, to improve the quality of the residual sediment. • Re-use of water in crude desalination process. THE ENVIRONMENTAL INVESTMENTS • Selection of catalysts with low attrition tendency. AND OPERATING EXPENSES FROM • The upgrading of an Amine Regeneration (MDEA) unit, ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION SYSTEMS CONTROL SYSTEMS 2000 TO 2011 improving the performance of the sulphur recovery circuit. • Sour Water treatment units. • Power Management System (PMS). • Waste Water Treatment Plant. • Distributed Control System (DCS). • Electrostatic filter at the Fluid Catalytic Cracking unit. • Advanced Process Control (APC). In addition, a series of other projects were implemented • Vapour recovery system at the Truck Loading Terminal. • Continuous measurement devices for SO2, NOχ and volume of emisduring the year, within the framework of the refinery • Safe storage of liquids and solids in suitable tanks or containers, in sions at Large Combustion Plants. accordance with their tendency to emit steam. 2010 saw the commissioning of the new Crude energy efficiency improvement programme, concerning • Use of techniques to reduce production of wastes at source. Distillation Unit, the design of which satisfies the latest the reduction of energy consumption, and subsequently • Reduction in volume of solid wastes and recovery or regeneration of European specifications for environmental protection of carbon dioxide emissions as well. catalysts. • Management of waste using specialist companies. and safety, while incorporating Best Available Techniques, • Recycling of electrical and electronic appliances, batteries, packagand making particular provisions for enhanced energy ing waste, tyres and used mineral oils using contracted alternative efficiency. Furthermore, in 2010 the construction management systems. of the new Sulphur Recovery units and of the new DAILY OPERATION reverse osmosis Desalination plant were completed, which further improve the refinery’s environmental • Leak Detection and Repair (LDAR) programme for detecting and • Implementation of environmental management system controlling fugitive emissions. • Implementation of safety management system. performance, while the completion of the upgrading • Automated tank cleaning method. • Implementation of quality system. of the lubricants production complex involved the • Heat exchanger maintenance and cleaning programme. 4. RESPONSIBILITY 4. RESPONSIBILITY 86 FOR THE ENVIRONMENT FOR THE ENVIRONMENT 87 5A. Energy efficiency improvement Refining of crude oil and conversion of its fractions into end products are particularly energy-intensive processes. Requirements for energy (i.e. electric power, fuel oil, fuel gas and natural gas) are such that its rational use is of paramount importance, both for the environment and for the company’s economic results. The refinery’s “energy footprint”, therefore, is an important consideration that leads us actively to seek to identify areas where there is potential for enhancing energy efficiency, and to implement appropriate projects through the use of Best Available Techniques or equivalent technologies. The projects completed in 2011 and preceding years, as 24.2% part of our ongoing programme to improve the energy efficiency of the refinery, as well as the expansion and upgrading projects (new Crude Distillation Unit, with special emphasis on reducing energy consumption, use REDUCTION IN ENERGY USE PER of new generation catalysts in new Sulphur Recovery units, introduction of natural gas into refinery fuel mix, TON OF RAW MATERIAL IN 2011 replacement or major maintenance of gas turbines, COMPARED WITH 2005 upgrading of pre-heat furnaces, increase in condensate recovery rate, installation of Advanced Control System, The reduction in the energy consumption has been 5. Energy-efficiency and climate change etc.), in combination with systematic monitoring of energy efficiency and preventive maintenance achived despite the increase in volume of production. As a result, in 2011, the refinery achieved a reduction of 24.2% Climate change is one of the most important global challenges for human health, for social cohesion, for economic programmes all these have contributed to the in the specific energy consumption, compared with 2005 development and for the security of food supplies. achievement of a significant reduction in the refinery`s (2.79 TJ per crude and feedstock thousand tons, down energy consumption. from 3.68 TJ). According to the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC), changes to the climate itself (increased average temperature, changes to atmospheric conditions, etc.), and the effects of such changes (altered ecosystem composition, reduced polar ice caps, observed variations in the duration of each season, etc.) are already clearly detectable. ENERGY CONSUMPTION 27,491 29,033 It has been widely accepted that the principal cause we are committed to: 27,550 26,952 27,848 26,146 of climate change is the increased concentration of • Measuring and improving, on a continuous basis, our greenhouse gases in the atmosphere: most importantly performance with respect to the use of energy and the 20,042 carbon dioxide (CO2), but also methane (CH4), reduction of greenhouse gases emissions. 3.68 3.56 3.61 3.42 chlorofluorocarbons (CFCs), sulphur hexafluoride (SF6) • Investing in the application of economically feasible 3.22 and nitrous oxide (Ν2Ο). The urgency of the situation is technologies that contribute to the reduction of 2.81 2.79 underlined by the fact that carbon dioxide emissions have emissions. -24.2% increased approximately 12-fold in the last 100 years. • Cooperating with the competent state authorities and other stakeholders in planning and implementing ENERGY CONSUMPTION (TJ) MOTOR OIL’S POSITION technologically feasible and financially viable SPECIFIC ENERGY CONSUMPTION (TJ/thousand MT OF RAW Our belief is that measures to confront the phenomenon environmental protection policies. 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 MATERIALS) of climate change, of necessity, have to extend beyond • Reporting our actions and results to all stakeholders. national and political boundaries and require cooperation, and coordinated action, at a global level, while a strong commitment to action is required from all stakeholder groups, including consumers. Awareness-raising on issues related to the rational use of energy -as well as of the Use of natural gas other resources that are becoming insufficient, such as waterand the associated attitudinal changes, is necessary Introducing the use of natural gas to the refinery in results, given that the use of natural gas reduces CO2 if these initiatives are to succeed. 2008 was an important step towards reducing its carbon emissions and is the economically most efficient way of Therefore, in compliance with the principles of footprint, while also improving financial and environmental generating electricity and producing hydrogen. Its use as responsible business activity and sustainable development, 4. RESPONSIBILITY 4. RESPONSIBILITY 88 FOR THE ENVIRONMENT FOR THE ENVIRONMENT 89 a fuel also has positive consequences in cutting pollutant • As an alternative or supplementary fuel for pre-heat Τechnical and environmental features of the new gas turbine levels in flue gases. furnaces and steam boilers in the place of heavy fuel HRSG system. oil fractions, thus both increasing energy efficiency and Natural gas is used: significantly reducing emissions of air pollutants. • As an alternative raw material for the hydrogen Gas turbine production unit (instead of naphtha or LPG), which exhaust stack allows the quantities of carbon dioxide emitted to be H.R.S.G. exhaust stack reduced by approximately 8% and 19%, respectively. High and low • As an alternative fuel for the Power Cogeneration pressure steam Plant gas turbines, instead of either fuel gas or propane, for Refinery Heat Recovery Steam needs Air intake achieving a reduction of carbon dioxide emissions by as Generator Combustion air much as 16%. Gas turbine H.R.S.G Fuel Burners Power Electric generator and Steam Cogeneration • Active power: 19.1 MW. • Reduced emissions of carbon dioxide and nitrogen Plant • Combined cycle performance (power-steam cogeneration): 70%. oxides • H.R.S.G. is fed with in addition to the gas turbine flue • Open cycle performance (power generation only): 33%. gases refinery gas, thus generating 34 tons/hour of high At the end of 2011, with a total investment of 28 million • Makes a significant contribution to saving energy by pressure steam and 9 tons/hour of low pressure steam. euro, the fifth gas turbine and the third heat recovery burning only fuel gas produced by various units in the steam generator (HRSG) installation was completed in refinery using natural gas as an alternative fuel. the Power Cogeneration Plant. The HRSG installation • In the long term, maintenance of the gas turbine purpose was to exploit the gas turbine exhaust gases requires only half the cost of maintaining other temperature for steam generation. The new gas turbine comparable types of turbine. was constructed by Siemens and it incorporates stateof-the-art technologies for emission reduction in order to protect the environment, efficiency optimization and maintenance cost minimization. Total efficiency of the Cogeneration Plant is 70% for would require the conventional fuel mix that PPC uses. electricity generation and steam generation (combined The resulting benefit for the environment -in terms of The Cogeneration Plant now includes five gas turbines, cycle), compared with an efficiency of around 30% if the lower CO2 emissions due to own generation of electricwith a total active power of 85 MW, and three HRSGs combined cycle was not used. This approach ensures an ity is indicated in the following table: generating steam from turbine gases. These HRSGs optimum combination of environmental and economic generate about 140 tons of high and low pressure steam advantages, given that the energy remaining in the superper hour, making the refinery self-sufficient in electricity CO2 emissions avoided (tons) heated flue gases of the gas turbines is utilized in the heat as it eliminates the need to draw power from the Public recovery steam generators to produce highand low2007 38,700 Power Corporation grid and meeting most of its need pressure steam. Through its ability to utilise either fuel for steam. gas produced by various refinery units, or natural gas as 2008 61,000 an alternative fuel, the Plant is one of the most important contributors to energy-saving on the refinery complex. 2009 94,000 2010 86,000 The operation of the Plant also contributes to the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions at a national level by 2011 108,000 drastically reducing electricity imports from the Public Power Corporation (PPC), the production of which 4. RESPONSIBILITY 4. RESPONSIBILITY 90 FOR THE ENVIRONMENT FOR THE ENVIRONMENT 91 In addition: • In 2011, the co-production of around 120 tons of steam Desalination Reverse osmosis is the most energy-efficient type of 5B. CO2 Emissions per hour by the Plant is translated into a benefit for desalination technology, and is being extensively exploited: the environment amounting to around 240,000 tons of two such units are currently in operation. 2011 was the fourth year of the second stage of implementation of Kyoto Protocol decisions for the period 2008-2012. CO2, which would have otherwise been released from Apart from the requirements in respect to the reduction of CO2 emissions, the second implementation stage imposes the burning of additional fuel in the refinery’s steam Monitoring and Daily Practice stricter specifications relating to the accuracy of measurements and the evaluation of their relative uncertainty. generators. The energy performance of production units is constantly • The environmental benefit is enhanced from the monitored, so as to correct any malfunctions that come In order to comply with these requirements, Plant’s increased use of natural gas (47,000 tons in to light. The Advanced Process Control system, through 24.4% MOTOR OIL: 2011 compared with 40,000 in 2010, 19,000 in 2009 and continuous monitoring achieves the optimisation of • Operates suitable methodology for monitoring 13,000 in 2008), and corresponding reductions in the energy use in the units where it has been installed. emissions of CO2 from its facilities that combines burning of fuel gas and LPG. computational methods with the results of With the same aim, the refinery’s preventive maintenance measurements taken by CO2 monitors installed on The Power Management System Best Available programme provides for: the flares of the Fuels, Lubricants and Hydrocracker REDUCTION IN CO2 EMISSIONS PER TON Technique -, which was upgraded in 2011 (see Health and • The systematic re-tubing, repair and cleaning of heat complexes. Equipment that continuously measures OF RAW MATERIAL IN 2011 COMPARED Safety chapter), protects the refinery from full or partial exchangers and air coolers in order to increase the airflow and molecular weight is installed at the flare of WITH 2006 shutdown owing to a breakdown in the internal or percentage of heat recovery. the Hydrocracker complex. external (i.e. Public Power Corporation) grid, significantly • Replacing, through annual programmes, of pipeline and In accordance with legal requirements, annual reports on increasing the level of safety and reliability and thereby equipment insulation, thus minimizing losses to the • The accreditation of the refinery’s Chemical Laboratory, carbon dioxide emissions are compiled and submitted to improving environmental efficiency. environment. as per the EN 17025:2005 standard, includes the the competent ministry. These reports are verified by an • The maintenance and/or replacement of rotating measurement of the carbon content of refinery fuel gas accredited body as to their accuracy and validity. Upgrading of Burners and Pre-heat Furnaces equipment, whose energy performance has fallen below using gas chromatography. The upgrading of furnaces provides for the more efficient specified levels, as a result of length of use. exploitation of the heat content of flue gases, thus, • Repairing and/or replacing of the refractory material, achieving reductions in both fuel consumption and in the burners and tubes of pre-heat furnaces. emissions of CO2 and other air pollutants. A programme of gradual upgrades to the refinery’s furnaces involving CO2 EMISSIONS the adoption of the forced-draft technology -which 2,075 increases the efficiency by more than 6%is in place, 1,994 1,977 1,939 1,945 while a similar programme applies to the replacement of 1,881 existing burners with more energy-efficient units, which 1,311 emit lower levels of nitrogen oxides (low-NOx burners). For example, the upgrading of the crude oil preheat 0.241 0.258 0.258 0.241 0.236 furnace of the Crude Distillation Unit in 2007 (the largest furnace at the refinery) raised thermal efficiency from 0.202 0.195 80% to 87%. -24.4% ANNUAL EMISSIONS (THOUSAND MT) Gas and Condensates Recovery SPECIFIC ANNUAL EMISSIONS Levels of condensates recovery -which are fed into steam 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 (MT CO2 PER CRUDE AND FEEDSTOCK TON) generators for steam productionincreased by about 3%. The exploitation of the energy content of condensates, contributes towards the reduction of fuel gas and liquid Total CO2 emissions for 2011 amounted to 1,945m tons, Finally, the company contributes indirectly towards fuel volumes that would otherwise be used for steam an increase of 3.4% over the preceding year, due to mitigating the effects of climate change by operating a bus generation by the steam boilers. increased volume of production at the refinery. However service for use by employees travelling to and from work specific CO2 emissions per crude and feedstock ton in a facility that helps reduce automobile carbon dioxide In addition, there is an ongoing programme for 2011 (0.195) were 3.5% lower than in 2010 (0.202), owing emissions from the private vehicles of those employees maximising the recovery of gases, to be used as fuel, and to increased use of natural gas, in combination with lower that take advantage of this opportunity, which in the case thus minimize flaring. consumption of energy per crude and feedstock ton. It of the refinery concerns more than 50% of all employees. should be noted that the low level of emissions in 2005 is attributable to the very different configuration, capacity and level of complexity of the refinery at that time. 4. RESPONSIBILITY 4. RESPONSIBILITY 92 FOR THE ENVIRONMENT FOR THE ENVIRONMENT 93 6. Air quality management It is a fundamental duty of our company to assure air quality at and around our refinery. Our commitment to ongoing improvement in this area does not just reflect a legal obligation, but stems from the principles of Corporate Social Responsibility that we have adopted and in which we believe. • Furnaces CO2, NOx, SO2, Suspended particles • Boilers Burners Gaseous emissions from point sources of combustion • Gas Stripping Unit SO2, H2S • Sulphur Recovery Units (Catalytic Hydrogen sulphide emissions of H2S are conversion of hydrogen sulphide into minimal, due to their full conversion into sulphur, followed by combustion of solid sulphur 5C. Shell Eco-marathon residual gases) As the licensee for Shell in Greece, Coral is actively supporting Shell’s global initiative, the Eco-Marathon. The objective • Fuel storage VOCs Emissions is simple! With the emphasis on innovation, energy efficiency and sustainability in transport, Coral is inviting university • API oil separators Emissions of volatile organic compounds and school students to join Shell’s leading educational programme involving the construction of energy-efficient • Loading-unloading of feedstock and originate from the fuel storage tanks, from vehicles. The winner will be the competitor, whose vehicle can travel the longest distance on one litre of fuel. products operation of the API oil separators, and There is any number of options open to the students; the track is full of futuristic and modern designs, while the • Distribution network leakages from leakages which may occur during intra-refinery fuels movement choice of fuel is another real challenge to be met. Internal In 2012 the competition will be held in Rotterdam, combustion engines running on gasoline or diesel remain Netherlands, and for the first time the students will the more traditional choices, while in recent years we be called on to apply their knowledge to achieving fuel EMISSIONS MONITORING methane (CH4, NMHC, THC), benzene, and particulate have seen an increase in the use of bio-fuels and electric efficiency on ordinary public roads. To protect and improve air quality, air pollutant emissions matter PM10 and PM2.5. vehicles, running on batteries, hydrogen or solar power. are monitored using a wide range of techniques; state-ofthe-art measurement equipment -continuously renewed Within the refinery, flue gases from the stacks of Greece has been participating regularly in the Ecoand upgradedis employed. the main combustion plants (point emissions) of Marathon since 2004, the year the competition became The measurement programme, including continuous the Fuels, Hydrocracking and Lubricants complexes pan-European. There have been entries from teams at as well as intermittent readings, covers both point and are continuously monitored by online analysers. The leading universities, like the Technical Universities of diffuse emission sources. parameters measured are: temperature, flow, pressure Athens and Crete, from Technical Colleges and from and concentrations of oxygen, nitrogen oxides, sulphur secondary schools in various parts of Greece. In the peripheral zone of the refinery, air quality is dioxide and suspended particles (PM10). monitored by four appropriately equipped stations: 2011 was an exceptionally good year for the Greek • Three fixed monitoring stations are capable of As in the case of the main refinery stacks, the main delegation, with the Technical University of Crete continuously measuring the concentration of hydrogen pipelines channelling gases to the flares of the winning the top award in the vehicle safety category sulphide (H2S) and sulphur dioxide (SO2). Combustion, Lubricants and Hydrocracking plants are for the second time, having constructed what was • A mobile station equipped with automated state-of-thesubject to continuous measurement of total sulphur flow judged the safest vehicle. The team from the National art measuring and recording devices, which can perform and concentration. Technical University of Athens (Metsovion), with its a wide range of measurements, including meteorological At the Catalytic Cracking Unit there is continuous electric-powered vehicle Prometheus, managed to travel parameters (wind speed and direction, air temperature monitoring of the flow and temperature of the flue gases, a distance of 360km/kwh (equivalent to 3,492 km/lt), in and relative humidity), and the concentrations of the concentration of oxygen and carbon monoxide, of other words, proportionally, the equivalent of traveling nitrogen oxides (ΝΟ, ΝΟ2 and NOx), sulphur dioxide sulphur dioxide, of nitrogen oxides and of suspended from Athens to St. Petersburg, using just one litre of fuel, (SO2), hydrogen sulphide (H2S), carbon monoxide (CO), particles PM10. securing 7th place in their category and setting a Greek methane, total hydrocarbons, hydrocarbons excluding It should be noted that all analysers are connected to record for fuel-economy! 4. RESPONSIBILITY 4. RESPONSIBILITY 94 FOR THE ENVIRONMENT FOR THE ENVIRONMENT 95 the refinery’s Distributed Control System (DCS), a maximization of recovery performance (which is of the selected equipment points is implemented for detecting are regularly checked by refinery personnel, at least configuration that allows for the complete control of the order of 99.9% in the case of the new, SCOT-type units). fugitive emissions and immediately repairing the leaks once a year, the frequency depending on the process combustion taking place in the furnaces. The smooth operation of the afterburners (incinerators) causing these emissions. In the industry, this is known being controlled, using portable volatile hydrocarbon associated with these units is achieved through as Leak Detection and Repair (LDAR) Programme, and concentration measurement equipment. In the event that Emissions from the refinery’s other stacks are monitored continuous monitoring of SΟ2 and Ο2 at the exit points, is based on the EPA 21 method of the United States concentrations are found to exceed 5,000 ppm, a repair every three months by a suitably accredited external and of the temperature at the radiant section of the Environmental Protection Agency. request for the equipment checked is issued. organisation. furnaces. Operation of both the Sulphur Recovery units, and the afterburners, is automatically controlled via the Fugitive emissions may arise from valves, pumps, flanges, In 2011, 16,419 checks were carried out as a result of An automated performance control system operates refinery’s Distributed Control System (DCS). safety valves and other related equipment installed on which 64 points were detected, requiring some sort of at the Sulphur Recovery units, which continuously pipelines, pressure vessels, reactors or storage tanks on intervention. monitors and records H2S concentrations at the entry the site. points, and H2S and SΟ2 concentrations at the exit points of these units. Also, the H2S/SΟ2 ratio is continuously In 2011, the LDAR programme at MOTOR OIL’s refinery measured, recorded and adjusted, so as to ensure included 6,171 predetermined control points, covering all production units, the Truck Loading Terminals, port facilities, storage tanks and oil separators. These points Clean fuels Integrated Sulphur Management System Refineries are faced with the following paradox: the petrol and automotive diesel with a sulphur content amount of sulphur in the available crude oil types is of less than 10 ppm, having brought on line in 2005 its 2011 also saw continuation of the programme to measure the same time as bottom-loading of road tankers was increasing in the course of time, while the specifications Hydrocracker Plant, an investment worth more than 350 atmospheric concentration of heavy metals and polycyclic introduced. for allowable sulphur content in “clean fuels” produced million euros. hydrocarbons, in accordance with the environmental • Vapour recovery units -as anticipated by legislationare have reached extremely low levels (e.g. for petrol and terms of operation of the refinery, with satisfactory also installed at all Avin Oil and Coral terminals, and automotive diesel, the 2009 specification for sulphur This results in reduced sulphur emissions within the results. bottom-loading of road tankers is in use at all terminals content is a maximum of 10 ppm or the equivalent of refinery, while the overall rate of hydrogen sulphide (except for that at Kavala). 0.001 %). Moreover, the maximum acceptable level of conversion into elemental sulphur in the new SCOT-type Controlling Emissions • Vapour recovery equipment is also installed at all sulphur emissions is also low, since the concentration Sulphur Recovery units -commissioned in 2010reaches Besides the measures for monitoring concentrations of Avin Oil and Coral retail stations, for use during the of sulphur dioxide in the atmosphere around a refinery, 99.9%. air pollutants, a number of other measures to reduce air unloading of gasoline from road tankers, in accordance on an hourly basis, should not exceed 350 µg/m3. In this pollution are in operation, within the refinery complex with relevant requirements of EU directive 94/63 context, the removal of sulphur coming into the refinery Elemental sulphur is initially produced in liquid form, and elsewhere, including: (Stage 1). with crude oil -at a concentration varying between 0.5 which by relevant cooling and appropriate processing, • Reduction of emissions of suspended catalyst particles and 2.0%is a significant challenge. is converted to a solid granular form, stored in silos for in flue gases from the Catalytic Cracking unit is achieved sale as a raw material for the production of sulphuric by means of an electrostatic precipitator, which treats MOTOR OIL, as a responsible corporate citizen with acid and fertilisers. The whole process is carried out in the flue gases stream; this preventive measure achieves respect for the environment, has in place a particularly a completely closed circuit, thus avoiding the dispersing far greater reduction in suspended particulate matter effective system which incorporates Best Available of sulphur particles in the air, and minimising entirely any than the acceptable limits. Techniques, in order to achieve the best results, both in environmental impacts. • Fuel gases used as fuel in the refinery are desulphurised terms of maximising the degree of sulphur removal and (as a result of which sulphur dioxide emissions are minimising the amount of energy consumed. minimised) before entering the refinery fuel gas system. In this way the company is able to produce and market • Upgrading of the four steam boilers at the refinery’s steam production plant included the installation of lowNOx burners, significantly reducing the level of nitrogen oxides emissions. • Reduction of fugitive hydrocarbon emissions by means Leak Detection and Repair (LDAR) of various measures, including: the installation of closed circuits in gas processes; the routing of gases released A modern refinery comprises lots of different types of that there will be particular points with a higher risk from safety valves to the flares; the installation of installed equipment, through which large quantities of of hydrocarbons being accidentally released into the secondary seals in floating roof tanks; the installation of crude oil and feedstock circulate, as well as intermediates atmosphere. In order to contain such fugitive emissions floating covers on oil separators; and the installation of and final products. In such a system, it is to be expected from equipment, a programme of periodic checks of a vapour recovery unit at the Truck Loading Terminal at 4. RESPONSIBILITY 4. RESPONSIBILITY 96 FOR THE ENVIRONMENT FOR THE ENVIRONMENT 97 IN NUMBERS AVERAGE ANNUAL AVERAGE ANNUAL CONCENTRATION 77.0% Sulphur dioxide emissions have declined significantly since 2007 compared with earlier years, despite the fact that CONCENTRATION OF ÍO2 OF SUSPENDED PARTICLES PM10 refinery production has increased over the same period; 250 70 this is attributable to a reduction in sulphur content of fuel used in the refinery’s furnaces, and to the greater Hourly limit value 60 200 FEWER SO2 EMISSIONS PER TON OF use of natural gas in the fuel mix. This trend continued in 50 Daily limit value RAW MATERIAL IN 2011 THAN 2011, when further reductions in sulphur emissions were µg/m3 150 µg/m3 40 achieved, both in terms of total emissions and emissions IN 2005 per ton of raw material processed. 30 100 20 50 10 0 0 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 SULPHUR DIOXIDE EMISSIONS 7.1 6.7 4.5 4.6 4.6 -77.0% 3.7 2.7 7. Liquid waste management 1.22 0.92 Liquid waste produced by the refinery’s various processes 0,28 fall into two categories: industrial waste and urban waste. 0.56 0.58 0.55 0.40 ANNUAL EMISSIONS (THOUSAND MT) The management and processing of liquid waste SPECIFIC ANNUAL EMISSIONS 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 (KG SO2 PER MT CRUDE AND incorporates Best Available Techniques, while due to FEEDSTOCK TON) their different pollutant load, the industrial and urban waste streams undergo different types of processing prior to their final disposal. Industrial liquid waste is preprocessed in specific refinery units and then transferred As far as air quality during 2011 is concerned, the 2011, which contains tabulations and illustrations relating to the Industrial Waste Water Treatment Plant, while processing of the recordings at the four air quality to all air pollutants. urban waste is transferred directly to the Urban Liquid monitoring stations, in the context of the emissions Waste Treatment Plant. The residual sludge left after monitoring programme, has shown, as in previous years, the waste is processed is dehydrated and compressed that air quality in the vicinity of the refinery remains AVERAGE ANNUAL prior to final disposal, according to the approved refinery highly satisfactory. The detailed records for the past five CONCENTRATION OF SO2 environmental terms. years demonstrate that concentrations of pollutants not only have not exceeded the legally stipulated hourly limit The effectiveness of operation of the Industrial Waste values (200 µg/m3 for ΝΟ2 and 350 µg/m3 for SΟ2), and 200 Water Treatment Plant is evidenced by the fact that the daily limit values (50 µg/m3 for PM10 and 125 µg/m3 concentrations of various pollutant substances at for SΟ2), but the recorded values were well below these 150 the outlet of the unit have been shown to be below limits as well. µg/m3 Daily limit value relevant legal limit values by as much as 70%. In the case 100 of some substances (including benzene, toluene, ethyl The diagrams below show the annual average values of benzene, xylene and a number of heavy metals), their SO2, NO2 and PM10 particulate matter over the past six 50 concentrations are very much below corresponding limit years. values, approaching the limits of detection in some cases, 0 which was confirmed in 2010 by a pilot programme of Further related information on control of emissions 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 monthly measurements. during 2011 can be found in the Environmental Statement 4. RESPONSIBILITY 4. RESPONSIBILITY 98 FOR THE ENVIRONMENT FOR THE ENVIRONMENT 99 CONCENTRATION OF POLLUTANTS AT THE OUTFLOW OF THE INDUSTRIAL WASTE WATER TREATMENT PLANT (ANNUAL AVERAGES) 8. Solid waste management Recycling AVERAGE VALUE LIMIT VALUE The management of solid waste produced during the operation of the refinery is founded on an integrated procedure PARAMETER that covers all stages of the life cycle of refinery solid waste, from its collection, packaging, labelling, processing (where 2008 2009 2010 2011 necessary), temporary storage and final exploitation or disposal via one of the following alternative means: recycling Supply (m3/day) 10,297 10,224 10,529 10,663 outside the refinery; recovery outside the refinery; final disposal outside the refinery; or processing within the refinery pH 7.9 7.7 7.6 7.6 6-9 and re-use. Temperature (οC) 34.0 33.0 30.5 28.0 35 The main aims of the solid waste management were 44.82 tons of packaging material that had contained Oil (mg/l) 5.0 3.0 3.3 4.0 10 programme are: hazardous materials and 10.97 tons of contaminated soil. BOD5 (mg/l) 26.0 23.0 23.4 24.0 40 • reduction of quantities produced, at source, The company, as a solid waste producer, submits an COD (mg/l) 108.0 106.0 106.0 105.0 150 • separation into hazardous and non-hazardous waste at annual report to the Ministry of the Environment, Energy source, wherever possible, and Climate Change which records all types of solid NH3 (mg/l) 14.0 14.0 13.8 13.8 15 • maximum exploitation prior to final disposal, through waste arising from its operations and how solid waste is Phenols (mg/l) 0.4 0.4 0.3 0.3 0.5 recycling or re-use or recovery of useful components or handled, while identifying the legally-approved recipients. Sulphates (mg/l) 0.6 0.7 0.9 1.1 2 regeneration, and finally, Suspended solids (mg/l) 17.0 17.0 16.9 18.0 40 • safe transportation and final disposal without putting at As far as used lubricants and their packaging is concerned, risk human health or the environment. contracts are in place with a firm specialised in used • The programme to utilize available, inactive equipment was initiated in the context of the programme for mineral oil recycling and with a firm specialised in handling was completed in 2011, improving the unit’s operating monitoring the sea water quality in the coastal zone Only licensed companies specializing in the handling of packaging materials. These two contracts provide for parameters. of the refinery. The study, which was conducted by the solid waste are being contacted for carrying out disposal recycling of used lubricants and their packaging, thus • Since 2009 samples have been taken at 8 boreholes to Applied Geo-Chemistry Laboratory of the Geology of such waste. contributing to the protection of the environment and monitor and check the quality of the subsoil and aquifer, Department, University of Patras, was completed in the rational use of raw materials. We also collaborate on the basis of a hydro-geological study submitted to 2011. According to the project director, Professor S. Spent catalysts, which, depending on the particular case with accredited firms specialised in the recycling of the Ministry of the Environment, Energy and Climate Varnavas: «We have established from evaluation and may be classified as hazardous solid waste, are disposed batteries, ink toner cartridges, motor vehicle tyres, bulbs Change. During 2011, in accordance with the refinery’s interpretation of the research findings that in all of in a number of ways (either exported, or regenerated and computers. environmental operating terms, two sets of samples respects the qualitative characteristics of the waters, for re-use by specialised firms abroad, or used in cement were taken at these boreholes -one in every six and the environmental conditions prevailing in the manufacture). Also disposed of by licensed contractors monthsin order to determine the value of a number of coastal zone of the MOTOR OIL facilities are the parameters, such as concentrations of heavy metals and normal characteristics of a coastal marine environment. hydrocarbons, the results of which were found to be The refinery facilities are having no impact on the RECYCLING DISPOSAL OF SOLID WASTES (MT/YEAR) extremely low, and even non-detectable in some cases. environment». 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 • In mid 2010, a new series of sampling and measurements Batteries 3.5 0.2 2.7 3.1 10.6 11.3 Tyres 3.3 8.1 Lubricants1 22.1 29.6 13.1 4.5 113.1 45.4 Wooden packaging 12.0 17.8 44.7 15.2 123.4 58.4 Paper and paper packaging 2, 3 17.1 14.3 11.4 35.7 21.1 34.9 Plastics and plastic packaging 9.2 17.6 0.4 377.8 14.4 Metals (scrap) 2,165.1 704.1 2,731.8 1,012.1 1,394.8 2,219.4 Electrical/electronic equipment 7.2 3.9 2.7 0.8 Contaminated soil 21.2 439.9 112.0 11.0 Contaminated packaging 8.2 3.1 26.0 8.5 44.8 Materials containing asbestos 40.6 11.6 20.5 7.8 Toner cartridges (items) 1,120 1,250 1,300 1,800 2,150 949 1. These quantities refer to the refinery alone, since corresponding reliable figures for the AVIN OIL and CORAL retail networks are not available. 2. Recycled and non-chemically breached paper is being used by all the companies of the Group. 3. Money raised from paper and toner cartridges recycling at the Group Head Office is donated to the “ELPIDA” Foundation. 4. RESPONSIBILITY 4. RESPONSIBILITY 100 FOR THE ENVIRONMENT FOR THE ENVIRONMENT 101 Recovery of Raw Materials Thus, while it was necessary to import 125,000 m3 of water in 2007, this requirement fell to below 10,000 m3 in ratio reduced steadily (with an exception in 2008 when it increased to 0.391, due to the extensive preparation A special form of recycling is the recovery of raw materials from various waste streams in order to minimise the each of the following two years, while in 2010, due to the of equipment during the large preventive maintenance loss of raw materials (reprocessing). Major efforts are made to maximise reprocessing due to its environmental and refinery expansion that took place, an additional 82,000 programme in that year). economic significance; the aim is, firstly, to minimise the presence of raw materials in the waste streams and, secondly, m3 of water had to be imported. In 2011 we have managed to maximise the amount recovered. to reduce the quantity of imported water to zero. Finally, in 2011, the downward trend continued thanks It should be noted that following the commissioning mainly to projects to reduce energy consumption of the Hydrocracker complex in November 2005, the (reduction of steam consumed, operational quantity of water consumed per ton of raw material improvements, etc.). RAW MATERIALS RECOVERY (MT) processed increased to 0.402 in 2006. Subsequently, this 2007 106,000 2008 67,500 2009 71,500 2010 51,000 ANNUAL WATER CONSUMPTION 2011 68,800 0.402 0.375 0.391 0.375 0.317 0.328 -21,1% 9. Water management 3,108 125 3,149 3,137 82 3,165 146 2,894 2,962 IMPORTED WATER (thousand M3) The sustainable management of water resources is now a necessity, since water is one of the natural resources at risk. 3,145 3,129 3,165 3,019 3,044 DESALINATED WATER (thousand M3) We recognise this reality, and we take steps to reduce water consumption, and ensure its rational and responsible 2,962 4 8 TOTAL CONSUMPTION (thousand M3) management at the refinery. 0 SPECIFIC WATER CONSUMPTION (M3/MT OF Water used in various process operations at the refinery is sourced through the processing of sea water at 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 RAW MATERIAL) desalination units. The desalination facilities have been supplemented by the addition of two units of the reverse osmosis technology -which is the optimum desalination technique both in terms of economic efficiency and environmental impactas a result of which the refinery’s requirements are fully covered, and the need to import fresh water has been practically eliminated. Re-use and recycling of water recycled to feed the crude oil desalinators, while the rest One of the important processes at the refinery is the is channelled to the Industrial Waste Water Treatment processing of the acid water flows generated in different Plant, allowing a proportional reduction in consumption phases of the production process, in order to remove of fresh water and in the volume of wastes needing hydrogen sulphate and ammonia. In 2011 this process treatment. produced 799,000 m3 (compared with 850,000 in 2010 and 819,000 in 2009). About 50% of this water flow is 10. Noise management Noise caused by industrial facilities, such as the MOTOR OIL refinery, is an inevitable and unavoidable consequence of the activities taking place. MOTOR OIL monitors noise levels on a regular basis, by carrying out measurements at a large number of locations around the refinery, and takes suitable measures to minimize the disturbance caused to the neighbours. Such measures include the installation of silencers and sound curtains, as well as the procurement of equipment of low noise level. 4. RESPONSIBILITY 4. RESPONSIBILITY 102 FOR THE ENVIRONMENT FOR THE ENVIRONMENT 103 11. Protection of the marine environment In 2010 the number of complaints was relatively large, because of the procedures involved in preparing for as that work was completed the number of complaints fell to the levels of previous years. opening of the new Crude Distillation Unit, but as soon Due to its location, the operation of MOTOR OIL’s refinery is completely linked with the marine environment. Owing to the extensive impacts of a potential pollution incident, both for the marine ecosystem and the economic and social life of adjacent areas, as well as the tremendous expense that rehabilitation would involve, extensive prior planning and preparation for successfully responding to such incidents is imperative. COMPLAINTS RECORDED 2007 35 In order to comply with these requirements, MOTOR high level, with an annual schedule of exercises, which 2008 27 OIL: includes both Tier 1 (small scale) and Tier 2 (medium 2009 28 • Implements all necessary active and passive protection scale) pollution incident drills. Specifically, in August 2011 2010 61 measures to minimize the risk of oil spills during the a medium-scale sea pollution response exercise was 2011 30 operation of its refinery. carried out, with the participation of the Isthmia port • Implements all necessary measures and provides all authority. equipment for the safe sail in and sail out of tankers at • Is a member of international and regional organizations, its port facilities, as well as for the safe loading/unloading thereof. whose aim is the prevention and timely response to oil spill incidents (see Participations Collaborations 13. Compliance with environmental legislation • Has drafted an Oil Spill Contingency Plan, which is section in chapter 1). An essential aspect of our environmental policy is to rigorously comply with the environmental operating terms of harmonized with the Local Contingency Plan and the our operating licence as laid down by the relevant state authorities, and with all the other related obligations arising National Contingency Plan drafted by the competent from the effective Greek and European environmental legislation. Moreover, our investment programme does not state agencies. only aim at timely compliance with any new requirements, but also provides for implementing projects that go beyond • Maintains all necessary equipment for responding to the requirements of the current legislation. In addition we fully comply with all reporting requirements of current local small and medium scale water pollution incidents legislation. (Tiers 1 and 2), such as absorbents, booms, skimmers, coastline cleaning equipment and vessels (boats, During 2011: • The Environmental Statement 2010 was submitted to tugboats and a special vessel equipped with tanks for • The annual report on greenhouse gas emissions for the Ministry of the Environment, Energy and Climate storing the collected oil). There are also appropriate 2010 was submitted to the Ministry of the Environment, Change, in accordance with the requirements of EMAS stocks of oil dispersants, used at the final stage of cleanEnergy and Climate Change. ER 1221/2009. The company is registered with the up operations, when authorised by the port authorities. • The annual report on hazardous and non-hazardous European Eco-Management and Audit Scheme (EMAS), • Audits its preparedness and the suitability of the above waste (liquid and solid) production for 2010 was and in the corresponding Hellenic Register, under plans and maintains personnel response capability at a submitted to the same ministry and to the Peloponnese number EL 000067. Regional Authorities; the corresponding year 2009 report was submitted to the Hellenic Statistical 12. Refinery communication with Authority. • The annual report on gaseous and liquid pollutant local stakeholders emissions for 2010 was submitted to the same ministry and the competent Regional Authority. MOTOR OIL uses various means of keeping Local Authorities and other stakeholders informed of its activities, either In addition: by involving its own staff in conferences and meetings, or keeping local organisations informed about its investment • The annual report on collection of waste at the plans and its programmes relating to environmental protection. MOTOR OIL port installations was submitted to the Ministry of Maritime Affairs. • The Regional Authority of the Peloponnese issued the Besides briefing Local Authorities, the company also the cause of the disturbance. Typical examples of actions permit for use of water at the MOTOR OIL industrial maintains open communication lines with refinery to reduce disturbance are: the selection of low noisefacilities. neighbours, hearing any complaints they may have. Such emitting equipment wherever possible; the installation of • A report was submitted to the Ministry of the complaints expressed by neighbours are recorded, sound curtains on the compressors at the Waste Water Environment, Energy and Climate Change, detailing the investigated and evaluated according to the refinery’s Treatment Plant; installation of a foam breakdown system results of the measurements of the control parameters complaint-handling procedures and short or long-term at the same facility, and the installation of a silencer on a (benzene, toluene, xylene and ethyl benzene) at the corrective measures taken to address them, depending on steam exhaust line at the Hydrocracker complex. outlet of the Industrial Waste Water Treatment Plant. 5. SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 5. SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 104 105 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY We stand side by side with the community, offering consistent and long-lasting support. Our responsible position towards society is demonstrated primarily through our contribution to the country’s overall economic development, and our efforts to benefit local communities in the vicinity of our facilities, by way of job creation, fostering local entrepreneurial activity and purchasing goods and services from local suppliers. Moreover, we believe that our business activities should be based on positive and productive interaction with the social environment in which we operate. Our responsibility towards society is to participate actively in enhancing social values and helping to improve social cohesion and 32.8 optimism for a humane future. For these reasons, we implement a comprehensive programme of donations and sponsorships that benefit local communities, improve quality of life, help in protecting the environment and promote social and cultural activities in these areas, as well as enriching the social and cultural life of society as a whole. Through our social responsibility projects we seek to demonstrate a steady, consistent support million euros for the community, in line with our corporate objectives and values. We seek to support values which will improve the life of the community in education, health care, sports and the arts. SPENT ON SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY In 2011 our company’s social action focused on the financing and promotion of social solidarity PROJECTS OVER THE LAST TEN YEARS programmes across the country, though our primary focus was placed on organizations and agencies based mainly in municipalities in the vicinity of our facilities. 2.5 million euros SPENT ON SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY PROJECTS IN THE YEAR 2011 5. SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 5. SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 106 107 Our primary objective, in the difficult period our country is going through, has been to provide relief for more vulnerable social groups, and to facilitate their involvement in community life. There have also been supporting actions in areas of cultural and environmental interest. At the same time, 1. Social Solidarity particular attention has been paid to supporting sporting organizations, with emphasis too on the real Our company engages in actions which meet the real needs of Greek society. Within this context, the company supports importance of entrepreneurship, especially at times of economic crisis like the present. local bodies doing important work to promote social solidarity, reinforcing their efforts and facilitating the undertaking of initiatives to support less advantaged members of society. Our company’s contribution to society as a whole is intended to In 2011, continuing the long tradition established by MOTOR OIL as a socially active corporate citizen, promote, inter alia, the value of human dignity, strengthening social equality and integration. donations and sponsorships were made available to support many and varied activities by worthy agencies and institutions. The actions we have supported were chosen by the competent executives During the year 2011 our company’s activities were focused on meeting basic needs and supporting local bodies doing of the company at the local and central levels, in accordance with the procedures set out in the valuable community work. Among other things, large quantities of heating oil were donated to municipalities bordering on relevant policy and in implementation of our strategy for social responsibility, which is structured the refinery facilities, financial support was provided to economically vulnerable groups, donations were made to social along the following key axes: benefit organizations and foundations, and food was distributed to the poor through municipal and ecclesiastical authorities. The ultimate objective of MOTOR OIL actions was to promote sustainable growth and social integration, and to offer ALLOCATION OF SOCIAL • Social solidarity support to less advantaged groups. RESPONSIBILITY FUNDS 2011 • Culture • Education 14.2% • Environment and infrastructures • Sports • International action 56.6% 21.7% 1.1. Heating oil donations vulnerable social groups, both by supplying the most needy with staple goods, and by specific grants of money. SOCIAL SOLIDARITY Actions focused mainly on the Prefecture of Corinth, CULTURE 7.6% In the winter of 2011 the company made available around YOUTH (EDUCATION SPORTS) the final recipients including the Regional Unit of HEATING OIL 216,000 litres of free heating oil, worth 185,000 euros. Corinth, the Municipality of Loutraki, the Municipality This social programme is intended to help with the of Corinth (Saronikos, Solygeia, Aghia Olympia) and cost of heating schools, orphanages, nurseries, municipal bordering communities, members of poor families, In 2011 the MOTOR OIL Group spent 2.5 million euros on social childcare centres, elderly people’s homes, churches and societies providing support services, schools and so on, responsibility projects, raising the total spent over the last decade ecclesiastical foundations, and so on, located in areas by providing cheques to meet basic needs during Easter bordering on the refinery, but also in other parts of the to 32.8 million euros. country. Recipients of the free oil included the Smile and Christmas. A total of 1,240 cheques were issued to help people meet vital needs. It is our intention to play of the Child charity, all schools in the municipalities of In the local communities, i.e. those parts of Corinth bordering on or in the general area of our an active part, through practical measures, in efforts to Corinth and Loutraki and the communities of Aghioi refinery, our social responsibility is highlighted through our strategic aspiration to be a vehicle combat poverty. At the same time we hope to promote Theodoroi, Isthmia, Sofiko and Athikia, the Orthodox of prosperity for these areas, providing many jobs and supporting the local market, while also social integration, by establishing viable and appropriate Christian charitable and cultural society Aghia Olympia, showing more general concern in developing constructive relations in pursuit of a balanced and measures and programmes in the areas where we do the swimming pool of the Municipality of Loutraki-Aghioi harmonious coexistence. business. Theodoroi, the Nafplio Municipal Sports Centre and others. More than 600 of our employees live in the municipalities bordering on our refinery, while in 2011 More specifically, during Christmas and Easter, financial we paid 1.32 million euros on municipal taxes and spent around 8.2 million euros on purchasing aid was given to societies and associations engaged in • We provided oils and lubricants for maintenance of products and services from businesses in the Corinth region. community work, such as the Disabled Life Disabled vehicles and machinery in the Municipality of Loutraki It is interesting to note that the National Statistical Authority, on the basis of 2008 figures, takes Children charity, the Foundation for the Blind and AghioiTheodoroi. the view that the added value created by the MOTOR OIL refinery in the Prefecture of Corinth Amputees, the Panhellenic Society of Blind People, • We provided liquid gas to the Makariotissa Monastery has made a critical contribution to the Prefecture’s ranking as seventh in Greece in terms of per the Destitute Amputees association, the Welfare for at Domvraina,Voiotia. capita GDP. Handicapped Children society, the Welfare for the Blind and Disabled charity, and the association of the Friends The social responsibility programmes we support in our local communities are selected of the Destitute Blind. The company also presented gifts through a process of dialogue, communication and cooperation with the various authorities and 1.2. Combating poverty to more than 1,000 nursery and primary school children, agencies of the municipalities of Corinth and Loutraki and the communities of Aghioi Theodoroi, including children from poor families, in the areas of Isthmia, Sofiko and Athikia. The main criteria used in selecting programmes for support is their The economic crisis affecting Greece over the last two Isthmia and Aghioi Theodoroi. contribution to development and progress for local communities, their strengthening of the years has had as a direct result a dramatic increase in social fabric and their use of synergies leading to more tangible products than a simple meeting cases of poverty. In response to these new conditions, of social needs. our company has undertaken to support the most 5. SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 5. SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 108 109 1.3. Supporting organizations and by Princess Aikaterini of Yugoslavia. Its main focus of activity is the area of Serbia and Montenegro, where, • We have given help to the Autistic Children’s Day Care Centre ‘Megalohari’, in the Prefecture of Hania. The • Avin Oil supported the organization of the 3rd International Road Safety Festival, held in Thessaloniki institutions in association with local and foreign NGOs, it seeks to Centre takes care of 14 autistic and mentally disabled in October 2011, which provides information on road help children, the elderly, hospitals and social welfare children, providing financial aid to organize the event safety for drivers and children. • For thirty-two years now, as part of our charitable institutions, as well as individuals in dire need. In 2011 ‘Day of Joy and Play’. The programme featured trial collisions, which offered activities, we have been the main sponsor of the we supported events run by the charity, their proceeds a concrete demonstration of the need to wear seat Vardinoyiannis Foundation, based at and overseen by going to the Theotokos Foundation. • We have provided a grant for the writing of a doctoral belts, as well as presentations of model cars designed the Panayia Kalyviani Women’s Holy Monastery in the thesis exploring cardiac sympathetic denervation using to make driving more eco-friendly. There were displays Prefecture of Irakleio, Crete. We cover part of the • We also offer active support to the Smile of the Child MIBG scintigraphy on patients with multiple sclerosis. of sophisticated electronic safety systems, like the Foundation’s expenditure, while the balance is met by charity, which has been fighting for fifteen years against “pedestrian detection system with automatic braking”; the Monastery. The Foundation was set up to provide a violations of children’s rights in Greece, providing • We provided assistance to the charitable organization demonstrations of first aid were given by a special home and social and vocational support for orphaned children with the resources they need to start their Friends of the Metropolis of Mytilene to purchase a small ambulance crew from the national ambulance service; girls, as well as girls whose parents do not have the adult lives as equal members of the community. In 2011 mobile unit providing primary health care to poor there was a demonstration of how people are freed resources to care for them. we helped organize the bazaar at the charity’s refuge in inhabitants of the island, while also helping its soup from wrecked cars, carried out by a Fire Brigade search ancient Corinth, home to 44 children and young people kitchen service. and rescue team (EMAK); free disposable breathalyser • We provide regular and consistent support for the aged 4-25, who have been removed from their parents kits were handed out, and special leaflets were activities of the Foundation for the Child and the Family. and placed in care by court order. • We have provided support for the Greek Red Cross in distributed with information on what to do if you are Set up by its President, UNESCO Goodwill Ambassador Corinth, Loutraki and Aghioi Theodoroi, as in previous involved in or witness a road accident. Mrs. Marianna V.Vardinoyiannis, the Foundation seeks to • We have assisted the Hellenic Cardiology Institute, which years, helping them meet their operating expenses and promote issues related to protection of children’s rights engages in research, prevention and treatment of providing assistance for the Rescuers and Volunteers • We have also supported the charitable and and the institution of the family, while improving living cardiovascular disease. The donation granted to the Team of the local Young People’s Section. humanitarian activities of the Greek Red Cross, UNICEF, conditions for children in all areas. Institute was intended to assist with all its activities, the Elpida Association, the Greek Cancer Society, the including the provision of scholarships for young • We have assisted the Let’s Go Camping programme, Sikiarideio Foundation for Children with Special Needs, the • We provide regular support for the Lifeline Hellas cardiologists to continue their specialist studies, the which allows youngsters from vulnerable families to Hellenic Association against Diabetes in Young People, the charity, set up in 2003 as the Greek branch of publication of the two-monthly journal Heartbeat, the attend selected summer camps. More than 700 children Theotokos Foundation for Children with Physical and Mental Lifeline, a charitable, non-profit organization. Since organization of medical conferences, and a range of from municipalities bordering on the refinery have Disabilities, the Athens Society for the Protection of Minors, its establishment in 1993 Lifeline has been headed other activities. participated in the programme. the Association of Disabled Persons of the Prefecture of 5. SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 5. SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 110 111 Irakleio, the Therapeutic Centre for Dependent Individuals Paremvasi, the Greek Office of the Allied Joint Force 1.4. Supporting local authorities Our assistance mainly took the form of: • free supplies of lubricants for vehicles, Command, Naples, Italy, the Organization against • help with repairs and maintenance, and the provision Support for the local community is one of the Drugs (ΟΚΑΝΑ), and many others. of spare parts, company’s prime concerns. We do our best to provide • the installation of air-conditioning and cooling/heating effective support for the work of local authorities and systems, help them meet their various needs. • the installation of computers, printers and monitors. Specifically, in 2011 MOTOR OIL responded positively to requests from the Corinth Fire Brigade and Police Department, the Navy Staff Officers School, Support for the elderly the Engineering School, the Isthmia Port Authority, the Loutraki Police Department, the Kiato Highway Free meals for groups of old people in need Patrol, the Elefsina and Attiki Odos Highway Patrol, About ten years ago MOTOR OIL embarked on a very the Xylokastro Police Department, and many other important community help scheme, in association with agencies. the Elderly People’s Day Centre of the Municipality of Corinth, Aghioi Theodoroi. The scheme, which has been in continuous operation over the last ten years, supports disadvantaged elderly people by providing a full meal each day (365 days a year), and a snack supper of milk and yoghurt. The food is prepared at the refinery canteen, and is the same meal that is enjoyed by the refinery workforce. In 2011 the refinery canteen provided meals for 86 elderly people at the Corinth and Aghioi Theodoroi Elderly People’s Day Care Centre. Aghioi Theodoroi Since 2000 MOTOR OIL has been offering significant financial support to the Elderly People’s Day Care Centre of Aghioi Theodoroi. The assistance covers the operating expenses of the Centre, and the needs of its approximately 350 members. During 2011 we played an active part in helping to organize all sorts of celebrations and events, excursions, talks and lectures on a wide variety of topics, including medical issues and problems faced by the elderly. Municipality of Sfakia Efthymeion Centre MOTOR OIL helped the Municipality of Sfakia to repair We have continued our tradition of support for the Efthymeion Centre for the Treatment and Rehabilitation of and reorganise its Multi-Purpose Regional Medical Persons with Special Needs, based in Corinth, purchasing Christmas cards from the Centre and donating financial aid Centre. The project was intended to upgrade the to help with its running costs. The Centre currently accommodates around 150 persons with disabilities, both in its centre’s services, allowing it to respond in technical and treatment programmes and in its occupational preparation workshops. It has been widely acclaimed for the quality medical terms to the local people’s needs for direct of its services, providing specialist support alongside ongoing medical and social care. MOTOR OIL has long been medical services. interested in the work of the Centre, believing that in contemporary society no one should be excluded, and that people with disabilities must be integrated into the community through the appropriate actions and programmes. 5. SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 5. SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 112 113 23 years ago, featuring choirs and musical ensembles 2. Culture from Greece and abroad. The 5th International Ermionida Festival was held between 16-31 July 2011. • We made a grant of financial aid to the Kritiki Estia We believe in the role of the arts, culture and history in healthy social development, resting on firm spiritual and Cultural Foundation. cultural foundations. We offer many kinds of support to activities which highlight and promote our cultural and • We assisted the Association of Greek Divers in historical heritage. renovating the roof of their premises. • We provided funds for conservation of the invaluable Byzantine icons and frescoes at Kastro Horas, Kalymnos. 2.1. Cultural associations and Kehraion Association in the Municipality of Corinth, the Oikiston Local Improvement Associations, the Kaminaki Rethymnon Children’s Cultural organizations Local Improvement Association of Ag. Theodoroi, Centre the Galini Agios Philippos Association of Katsivri, Ag. • MOTOR OIL desires to play an active part in preserving Theodoroi, the Panorama Kinetas Cultural Association, The Rethymnon Children’s Cultural Centre is the and promoting the cultural heritage of Greece, as the Nea Zoi Cultural Association of Katsivri, Ag. result of a successful collaboration between the expressed through the work of cultural and local Theodoroi, the Philothei Kehraion Association, the Workers Centre and the Cultural Regeneration improvement societies around the country. In 2011 our Isthmia Cultural Association, the Aris Association of Association. The underlying philosophy, that children company made grants to various local bodies, such as Isthmia, , the Arion Local Improvement Association, should be engaged in creative activities that introduce the Alkyonides Association for Arts and Letters, the Kyra Vrysis, Isthmia, the Arkoukia Katakaliou Cultural them to all forms of art, with the help of specialized Klara Elias Cultural and Local Improvement Society Association of the Municipality of Saronikos, the instructors, has been ideally combined with the need to of Sousaki, Corinth, the Glykeia Zoi Cultural and Galini Local Improvement Association of Loutraki, support working parents whose children need looking Local Improvement Society of Sousaki, Corinth, the the Perahora Cultural Association of the Municipality after while they are at work. The Centre has been open Aghia Olympia Christian Orthodox Charitable and of Loutraki Ag. Theodoroi, the Agios Haralambos since 1993 as a child day care centre and centre for Cultural Association, the Local Improvement, Cultural Cultural Association of Kalamaki, the Panorama Local creative activities, run according to the philosophy of a and Educational Association of Ano Sousaki, Corinth, Improvement Association of Isthmia, the Psiloreitis school specializing in cultural activities. the Women’s Association of Hania, Crete, the Alumni Cretan Club of Ag. Theodoroi, the Kiafa Beka Association of the Merchant Marine School of Hydra, Association of Ag. Theodoroi, the Beskaki Association As in previous years, MOTOR OIL has made a the Lieutenant Commanders’ Club, the Piskopianoi of Ag. Theodoroi, the Protoporos Association of Ag. substantial sum available to the Centre to help it meet Cultural and Educational Association of Rethymno, Theodoroi, and many others. its basic running costs. The Centre currently cares for the Perivolianoi-Myssirianoi-Platanianoi Association of 60 children, from 7am to 9.30pm, whose parents do not Athens-Piraeus. Inter alia: have the resources to pay for private day care. • We supported the Pancretan Association, a non-profit The financial aid we provided comprised donations for organization representing Cretans living in the Attica building maintenance, road completion and clearing, road region, in the organization of their annual children’s surfacing, covering fixed expenditure, advertisements, and festival, which was staged in December 2011. so on. • As a reflection of the company’s interest in events Aghioi Theodoroi Cultural • We also made donations to support the cultural which promote cultural and educational activities, we activities of such organizations as the Apostolos Pavlos donated funds to help stage an event, first organized Benaki Museum Centre MOTOR OIL provides a practical demonstration of As in all previous years, once again in 2011 we have its interest in the promotion of our cultural heritage provided support for events staged by the Cultural through its support for the activities and work of the Centre of Aghioi Theodoroi. Since 1988, the Centre has Benaki Museum. In addition to its active involvement been engaged in a variety of cultural activities, some in the remodeling of some floors of the existing N. extending beyond the boundaries of the municipality. Hatzikyriakou-Gikas Gallery, our company has also The Centre hosts a large number of departments, such made a donation to the permanent exhibition featuring as teaching children the guitar, theatre, modern and the cultural and artistic production of the period traditional dance for children and adults, an orchestra, from the Asia Minor Catastrophe to the eve of the parental counselling, a visual arts workshop for children dictatorship in 1967, housed in the former home of the of school and pre-school age, puppet theatre for artist N. Hatzikyriakou-Gikas. children of pre-school age, and a children’s and adult choir. 5. SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 5. SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 114 115 2.2. Cultural Events Among many donations and sponsorships, MOTOR OIL: 2.3. Supporting the media • Provided a grant to the Loutraki Cultural Centre to In 2011 we provided funds to help stage numerous cultural events, supporting the work of local associations in the Throughout the year 2011 MOTOR OIL has provided help it organize carnival events. Corinth area running classes in traditional dance, theatre workshops, concerts and theatrical performances. All these support to local newspapers and magazines in the • Supported the Saronikos Cultural Centre, in the organizations are working in their individual fields to raise the cultural level of the Corinth region. Municipality of Corinth, which are having difficulty in Municipality of Corinth, in the organization of the Athikia Carnival. meeting their publishing costs, as well as supporting • Supported the organization of the Tzanidakeia 2011 radio and TV stations. by the Vrakophoroi Club of Crete. The Club is the island’s main traditional association and was founded We have also provided financial aid to the Greek Maritime Association, to help it publish its magazine Concert by the “Mikis by Pavlos Vardinoyiannis. • Provided financial aid to the Association of Reserve Nautical Greece, a traditional maritime publication Theodorakis Popular Officers of the Prefecture of Rethymno, to help with issued each month by the Navy Printshop since 1928. The magazine, the oldest of its kind, is illustrated and Orchestra” organization of an event on ‘The internet: risks and advantages’. features literary and historical pieces, as well as old • Provided financial support for the Madwalk event, tales of the sea. Its contributors include distinguished Once again MOTOR OIL sponsored the concert, held authors and journalists. organized by Vodafone, whose proceeds were given this year on 29 July 2011, at Examilia, Corinth, featuring to the Elpida Foundation. the Mikis Theodorakis Popular Orchestra, celebrating • Made a donation to the National Association of the 86th birthday of the composer. The concert has Retired Merchant Marine Captains become a regular event and a key date in the cultural • Assisted with the organization of a theatrical calendar of the region. production by the Elpida Association at the Mousouri The purpose of this on-going sponsorship is to Theatre • Provided financial aid to help with organization of “OIL” Magazine honour the extraordinary musical legacy of Mikis the Klidonas Fortune-telling Festival of the Kritayenis Theodorakis, whose oeuvre includes not only a large The four-monthly magazine Zeus Cretan Association of Maroussi. body of symphonic music, but also ninety-four song OIL was first published in 1971 • Provided a grant to help with organization of and has appeared regularly ever cycles, simple and authentic expressions of Greek Christmas events by municipal bodies in the Corinth since. It is published by MOTOR poetry, with roots deep in our popular traditions. We area, such as the Association of Police Officers of OIL and other companies also wish to support this particular orchestra, which has presented major works of music over many years, Corinth, as well as educational institutions like the in the Vardinoyannis Group. collaborating with distinguished artists, musicians and Special Vocational Education and Training Workshop Containing articles on history, singers, and traveling the world showcasing the genius of Isthmia, and the Isthmia Special School. The sociology, religion, energy and the of Theodorakis’ music. company also provided gifts for the Christmas period environment, as well as scientific and technological to 72 teachers in Aghioi Theodoroi. topics, and showcasing important activities of broad Municipality of Corinth Cultural The 2011 concert was a tribute to the composer and social impact engaged in by the company, the magazine and Educational Centre his oeuvre. Sofia Papazoglou, Panayiotis Petrakis and is printed in a run of three thousand copies and Katerina Papoutsaki performed with great intensity distributed to a significant number of organizations in As it does every year, in 2011 MOTOR OIL continued and passion in a substantial programme featuring the the public and private sectors, as well as to institutions its active support for the work of the Municipality of composer’s best-known and best-loved songs. of further education and universities. Corinth Cultural and Educational Centre. The Centre’s activities include the organization of musical events, The three issues of the magazine printed in 2011 contained articles on: theatrical and dance shows, art exhibitions, academic • history, such as essays on the sea battles of Nafpaktos conferences and sports events. The quality of its events and Trafalgar, the Paris Commune and the Spanish Civil in recent years has shown it is a valuable force in War attempts to promote all forms of art and culture in the • politics and diplomacy, covering such topics as region. In 2011 our company made a vital contribution developments in the Arab world, defence policy and to the successful organization of the annual carnival, equipment, the Iraq and Libya syndrome highlighting the cultural identity of the Municipality • economics, covering the 2011 oil shock, Brazil the next of Corinth, while also boosting tourism and local oil colossus, and forecasts for world population growth businesses. • the environment, covering attempts to tackle the drinking water crisis, etc. 5. SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 5. SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 116 117 3. Education The Vardinoyanneion Foundation Student work experience The company has consistently supported the cause of education, believing in the power of knowledge to cultivate the human personality, to help us advance as individuals and as a society, and to make us into active citizens guided by our The Vardinoyanneion Foundation, whose main Every year the company takes on a number of students consciences. We take a serious interest in supporting and promoting education, research and technology the three main sponsor is MOTOR OIL, was established in 1989 and for paid summer work experience, lasting from one to pillars of knowledge, the driving force behind all progress, on which the future of society depends. is administered by a seven-member Board of Trustees. two months. The students fill various positions in the Its purpose is the granting of scholarships, awards and refinery and at head office. More specifically: grants -without competitionsto candidates who have distinguished themselves academically or who are During their stay with us the trainees have a chance in need of financial support to do undergraduate or to familiarize themselves with this particular working • We made a donation to the 2nd Nursery School of Ermioni, to allow them to lay grass in the grounds of their new school postgraduate studies at colleges and universities here environment and join in projects or working groups, buildings. or abroad. The scholarships and grants help them to with the support of experienced managers who give up • We helped the students’ choir of the Episkopi High School, Rethymno, to purchase an electronic piano, and helped the overcome any financial problems they may have and some of their time to mentoring the students. parents and guardians association to organize the senior class trip to Thessaloniki. continue their studies without distraction. • We provided financial support for the annual event of the American Hellenic Institute. The areas of study, for which the scholarships are In addition to this, we give a number of students the • We made grants to the Isthmia Primary School, the Almyro Primary School, the 1st Nursery School of Ag. Theodoroi, the 2nd awarded, change from year to year. For the year 2011 opportunity to do six months of practical experience, Nursery School of Ag. Theodoroi, the 1st Primary School of Ag. Theodoroi, the Ag. Theodoroi Senior High School, the Ag. Theodoroi 2012, scholarships were granted to 9 young people, and when this forms part of the degree course they are Child Day Care Centre, the Isthmia/Kyra Vrysis Primary School of Ag. Theodoroi, the 2nd Primary School of Ag. Theodoroi, the 3rd 41 others received financial support. They included: taking. We also provide positions for foreign students Nursery School of Ag. Theodoroi. to gain practical work experience, in collaboration • We provided financial aid to organize an environmental and cultural trip for the Corinth 3rd General Senior High School. • A scholarship for postgraduate studies abroad Field: with the International Association for the Exchange of • We helped with repair of buildings at the Almyri Primary School. engineering studies Students for Technical Experience (IAESTE). Also: • Four scholarships for postgraduate studies in Greece Field: chemical engineering, business administration, As part of these programmes in 2011 we filled six trainee positions of 1-2 months, and 23 six-month maritime studies, geology/geo-physics • We donated money to the 14th School of Rethymno and the 1st Special School of Hania, purchased invitations from the positions, as well as placing one student from abroad parents and guardians association of the Isthmia Primary School, replaced the computers at the Corinth Musical Junior High • Four scholarships for undergraduate studies in through IAESTE, at a cost of €63,000. The total cost School, helped buy sporting equipment for the 3rd Corinth Senior High School, purchased lottery tickets for the 1st Primary Greece Field: geology, medicine, shipbuilding, of meeting these educational needs has amounted to School of Ag. Theodoroi and 30 copies of the book Corinth 1834-2011 by Theodoros Kontozoglou. economics €815,000 over the last six years. Over the years, since the Foundation was established, a total of 150 scholarships and 1,515 annual grants have been awarded. Educational visits to the refinery Every year we arrange visits to the refinery for students at universities and technical colleges, Armed Forces production schools and ordinary secondary schools. The idea is to allow visitors to learn about the operation of one of the most advanced refineries in Europe, with presentations and a guided tour of the production facilities and workplaces, with information on the environmental protection programmes developed and run by the company, as well as on its continuing and varied programme of community work both in local communities and in society as a whole. During the 2011 programme, around 150 persons visited the plant. 5. SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 5. SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 118 119 4. Environmental protection MEDASSET Infrastructures The Mediterranean Association to Save the Sea Turtles is an international non-profit NGO, founded in MOTOR OIL supports activities and programmes which make an active contribution to improving infrastructures and rais1988 to protect sea turtles and their habitats around ing public awareness of environmental protection and sustainable development issues. the Mediterranean, through research programmes, information campaigns, education and active intervention It is our company’s objective to protect biodiversity, mainly in areas where human activity might endanger rare and vulwith the competent agencies. nerable species and habitats. At the same time, we promote programmes and participate in actions designed to protect ecosystems and water resources, to reduce volumes of waste and to cut air pollution. MOTOR OIL makes financial assisEvery year the Association carries out studies of the tance available to many environmental associations and organizations, making an active contribution to policies promoting main breeding grounds of the turtles in Turkey, Cyprus, environmental protection. the Laganas Bay in Zakynthos and Kefalonia. It also publishes scientific studies of more than 7,800km of Mediterranean coastline, from Sardinia to the north©2005 D. Schrichte eastern Aegean and from the Ionian Sea to the coasts of Turkey, Syria, Lebanon, Egypt and Libya. In a practical demonstration of the importance it attaches to respect for the environment, MOTOR OIL supports the Association’s work to promote and protect the 4.1 Supporting environmental biodiversity of the Mediterranean region. organizations • In 2011 MOTOR OIL made financial assistance ©2005 D. Schrichte available to the Perahora Fire Protection Society of Loutraki, which was set up in 2005 to protect the forests of the region and provide assistance to the public in the event of natural disasters and emergencies. Syggros Park • The company also made a donation in support of MOTOR OIL responded immediately with financial aid to the work of the Agioi Theodoroi Forest Protection meet the fire protection needs of Syggros Park, donating a Society, which maintains three fire engines and other fire engine to the Institute of Agricultural Sciences. equipment. The donation was intended to help the Society continue its important work. The Society’s This was assistance of real value, allowing the volunteer fire fighters are on the scene quickly and conservation and protection of one of the ‘lungs’ of effectively whenever there is a fire in the local forests. Athens. The Syggros Park is universally agreed to be a vital Support was also made available to help the Ta feature of the Athenian landscape, and an invaluable part Yeraneia Hunting Association of Loutraki in its work. of its natural heritage. • We used water produced by desalination at the refinery to meet the water needs for cleaning and garden watering of around 150 neighbouring houses. This water is a lifesaver for local plants and trees. The Agioi Theodoroi water system does not bring water to these houses, which rely on the network of pipes laid and maintained by MOTOR OIL instead. In 2011, 72,000 cubic metres of water, worth 229,000 euros, were supplied free of charge. 5. SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 5. SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 120 121 5. Sports In 1984 the International SPARTATHLON Federation was established, and since then the race has been run every September without exception. The month of Support for sporting activities is a way of supporting young people, because engagement in sports cultivates both mind and September was chosen because it was at this time of body, stimulating the desire to compete on equal terms with worthy partners and allowing young people to develop healthy year, according to Herodotus, that Pheidippides ran his personalities. We offer our support to popular sports and competitions, as well as lesser-known sporting activities, and are famous mission to Sparta. also happy to offer assistance to smaller clubs and sporting associations in the amateur sector. Every year MOTOR OIL makes a doctor and fully equipped ambulance available for the famous longdistance race, also supporting the Control and Aid Supporting sporting • Made a donation to the Poseidon Sports Club of Gerani, in support of the teams which train at the Centre located in front of the refinery. In 2011 the organizations Vardinoyianneio Stadium. 29th race was held over the historic 245.3km route from Athens to Sparta. The starting pistol was fired • Provided financial aid to the Krisses Sports Club of on 3 October, beneath the historic Acropolis, and MOTOR OIL supports a large number of sporting Rethymno for the 2011-2012 season. 285 runners from 39 countries set off on the race. organizations through its sponsorship: • Helped with funds to organize a conference on the The winner, as in the previous year, was Ivan Kudin, subject of the adverse impact of drugs on life and Spartathlon 2011 who finished in a time of 22:57:40. The prize for his • It supported the 2nd Didaskaleia 2011 race, held on 28 sport, arranged by the Koronis-Koilada Sports Club in superhuman effort was a wreath of wild olive and some May 2011 in memory of the benefactor of the Athikia Argolida. The Spartathlon is a race run over the route taken water from the Evrotas River, handed him by a young Cultural and Educational Centre, Sotiris Didaskalos. • Provided aid to the Hydra Sports Club, which has by Pheidippides, who in 490 BC, before the Battle of Spartan girl. • It supported the three-day sporting and cultural played in amateur leagues since 1986. Marathon, was dispatched to Sparta to seek their help events held by the Municipality of Loutraki, under • Made a donation to the Episkopi Sports Club of in the war of the Greeks against the invading Persians. the title Race for Life, the proceeds of which went to Rethymno. According to Herodotus, Pheidippides arrived in Sparta support local sick people. The agencies involved in the • Provided financial aid for the Rethymno Tennis Club to just one day after leaving Athens. In 1982, five RAF initiative included the Loutraki Cultural Association, the hold the International Tennis Tournament in Rethymno officers and long-distance runners came to Greece, led Perahora Cultural Association, the Loutraki Commercial in May 2011. by Colonel John Foden, who had had the idea of testing Association, the Elpida Sporting Association, etc. • Supported the team of the Rethymno Athletics and in practice the feat described by the Greek historian. • It provided financial assistance to the Association of Gymnastics Association, making an active contribution Veteran Footballers of the Prefecture of Corinth. The to support for its basketball team. The idea was to find out whether it was really Association is made up of footballers who played in • Sponsored the city of Rethymno’s Association of possible to cover the approximately 250km distance almost all the national divisions and takes an active Football Clubs. between the two cities in one-and-a-half days. And the part in arranging community and charity games with • Assisted the Spili Sports Club to complete the enthusiastic British team proved that Herodotus was such organizations as the Smile of the Child and the renovation of changing rooms at the Pavlos right. It really is possible for a man to cover 250km Efthymeio Centre. Vardinoyiannis stadium. in two days, in fact in less than 40 hours. After the • Provided financial aid to the Ermis Ermionis Sporting • Provided an ambulance and nurse to attend the race successful conclusion of his experiment, the pioneer of Association of Argolida, helping it to upgrade the held by the community of Hiliomodi. this feat, John Foden, began to dream of a race which facilities at its ground. would bring to Greece long-distance runners from around the world, to compete in the footsteps of Pheidippides, the marathon runner of antiquity. The following year a multinational team of enthusiastic supporters of the idea, from Greece, Britain and elsewhere, headed by the Philhellene Michael Callaghan, organized the first Open International Spartathlon Race. The name Spartathlon was created from the Greek words Sparta and athlos, a feat. The race was approved and supervised by SEGAS (Federation of Greek Sporting Clubs). 45 runners from 11 countries, some of them women, competed. The success of that first race was so great and attracted so much interest, that its future was secure. 5. SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 5. SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 122 123 International EAA Premium Olympic specifications and rightly known as the Stadium of Records, given that between 1993 and 2007 the event The 27th Vardinoyanneia witnessed a number of remarkable performances, with some of the athletes Androulakis, at 11.37, second by Antonis Lagoudakis at 11.41 and third by Mihalis Koutsopetros at 11.52. Games “Vardinoyanneia” has seen 29 Greek records set, as well as 7 national securing a place at the world track and field events in records by other nationals, 1 European youth record Daegu and the London Olympics. They included Eirini In the women’s 100m the favourite to win, Jamaican The international track and field meeting known as and 1 world record. The list of participants has included Kokkinariou, from the Dromeas Club in Maroussi, who, Kerron Stewart, justified expectations and came in first the “Vardinoyanneia” is held every year in Rethymno, all the major Greek athletes, like Patoulidou, Thanou, with a time of 9:40.20, not only ensured her ticket to the ahead of her great rival Joanna Atkins of the USA. In in memory of Pavlos Vardinoyannis. Since it was first Bakoyianni, Tsiamita, Xanthou,Vasdeki,Verouli, Koffa, biggest event of the year but also secured first place at the men’s 100m Rytis Sakalauskas from Belarus came in staged in 1985 the event has been successfully run by the Kelesidou, Tsikouna, Pilatou,Vongoli, Kokloni, Karastamati, the 3,000m hurdles. Second place was taken by Karitofska first ahead of the Australian Aaron Rouge-Serret with Atromitos Association of Rethymno, under the auspices Papakostas, Koukodimos, etc. from Poland, with 9:48.51, third by the Romanian Kasandra a time of 10.10. The women’s 100m hurdles was won by of the European Athletic Association, with support and with 9:48.84 and fifth by Maria Pardalou with 10:00.19. the American Loreal Smith, at 12.76, followed by Gemma sponsorship from the Ministry for Sport and SEGAS, Because of the number of athletes participating, the level Bennett from the UK at 13.08 and Hara Kitsou at 14.28. and under the regulations laid down by the International of performance and the superb organizational standard, The peak physical condition of the Greek athletes was The discus throwers earned warm applause for their Association of Athletics Federations. MOTOR OIL is an the Vardinoyianneia were promoted, in 2006, to the EAA demonstrated by the victory of Kostas Douvalidis, performances and appearance. The best throw 67.88 official sponsor of this international athletics meeting, Premium category. Every year since 2002 (except 2008) who won the 110m hurdles with a time of 13.53. Equally was by Lithuanian Alekna Virgilijus, notching up his best while also helping with maintenance and improvements to they have scored the highest grade in the European impressive was Louis Tsatoumas in the long jump, with performance of the year. the infrastructure of the Sports Centre where the event Athletic Association tables, placing them at the top of 8.26m. The jumper from Messinia performed consistently is held. their category. well: apart from his 8.26m he also managed jumps of The men’s 400m was won by Bulgarian Krasimir Braikov, 8.22m and 8.20m. Finally, in the men’s 1,500m, won by with a time of 46.95, followed by Dimitris Gravalos with The 27th Vardinoyanneia were held in Rethymno on 13 Valentin Smirnov from Russia with a time of 3:41.16, 47.24 and Giorgos Yialitakis with 48.84. The men’s high July 2011. The opening ceremony was attended by, among Andreas Dimitrakis, sponsored by New Balance, came jump was won by Bulgarian Victor Ninov, with 2.23m, others, Giorgos Vardinoyannis, New Democracy MP for fourth, setting a new personal record with the best followed by Samson Oni (GB) with 2.23m. Fifth place was Rethymno Olga Kefaloyianni, the Regional Governor EVENTS 2011 performance of the year in Greece and a time of 3:44.77. taken by Giorgos Spyropoulos with 2.15m. of Crete, Stavros Arnaoutakis, General Police Director MEN WOMEN In the boys’ 100m, first place was taken by young Manthos Manolis Paravolidakis, as well as representatives of local 100m Hammer 100m authorities and organizations. 1500m Discus 3000m hurdles 110m hurdles 200m under-23 100m hurdles The event was staged at the Pavlos I.Vardinoyannis 400m Triple jump Milestones High jump 200m under-23 National Sports Centre, which is a stadium built to Results of events Long jump • 1985: First meeting on clay • 2000: Inclusion in EAA Permit category • 2001: World record in women’s javelin • 2006: Inclusion in EAA Premium category • Best EAA Permit meeting 2002, 2003, 2004, 2005 • Best EAA Premium meeting 2006, 2007, 2009 • 2010: General rating of “Excellent” in EAA Technical Delegate Report • 2011: General rating of “Excellent” in EAA Technical Delegate Report 5. SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 5. SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 124 125 6. International action MOTOR OIL has helped aid efforts on the international level to assist regions and social groups faced with crises caused by natural disasters and other events. For example, the company provided humanitarian aid to the victims of the earthquake in the region of Van in eastern Turkey. The earthquake, measuring 7.2 on the Richter scale, occurred on 23 October 2011 and cost the lives of more than 600 people, with more than 4,000 injured. A total of 11,232 buildings sustained serious damage, while official figures state that 8,321 households were directly affected. More than 40,000 people were left homeless, striking a devastating blow to the economy of the region and causing a grave humanitarian crisis, to which international agencies and organizations were anxious to respond. MOTOR OIL also made a generous donation in response to the ‘Marathon of Love’ organized by the ERT Radio/TV station to support humanitarian efforts following the Asian tsunami of 26 December 2004, which affected 12 countries and cost hundreds of thousands of people their lives. It made a similar donation on the occasion of the ’Solidarity Marathon’ organized for the victims of the Pakistan earthquake of 8 October 2005. 7. Entrepreneurship As the largest economic force and employer in the Prefecture of Corinth, MOTOR OIL makes an important contribution to the community, creating direct and indirect income for a large number of businesses and families in the region (600 refinery employees live in neighbouring municipalities). As a key pillar of the region’s economic health and growth, the company supports local initiatives to encourage entrepreneurship. We have a policy of preferring local businesses when it comes to supplying the refinery with services, consumables, food, etc. even when there are financially more advantageous offers from outside the area. In 2011, we spent approximately 8.3 million euros in the area, helping to boost the local economy. Aegean Crossing AVIN offered material and moral support to the Olympic medallist Nikos Kaklamanakis in his heroic Aegean crossing. Inspired by his own motto ‘The Greek who believes in victory and will fight to win’, the windsurfer set a fine National Trade Fair example of will power, determination and belief in the ability of each one of us to fight for a better life. “Corinthia 2011” The crossing, over a distance of 320 nautical miles, took two days to complete, on 22-24 October 2011, and was As in previous years, we were one of the sponsors for achieved under particularly difficult weather conditions. The journey began at Nimporio, Andros, and took the the 3rd National Corinthia Trade Fair, held at the Corinth windsurfer past Mykonos, Delos, Donousa, Koufonisi and Amorgos, to end at Karpathos, where he laid a wreath Pipeworks factory and organized by the Development at the monument of Flight Lieutenant Konstantinos Iliakis, a tribute to the memory of the airman, so tragically cut Enterprise of the local Chamber, under the auspices of off in his prime. the Central Association of Greek Chambers and with the support of the Thessaloniki International Trade Fair. The feat was a rallying call to the whole Greek people. In Kaklamanakis’ own words: “I have fought a battle in my The objectives of the Fair are to promote and encourage own field of expertise, just like the battle each of us is fighting every day to survive and remain unbeaten”. economic activity, to showcase the products of the region, both here and abroad, to encourage the concluding of At the same time I wish to pass on the message to all, but especially the younger generation, that we all have commercial contracts and to increase tourism. The main a duty to demonstrate our true worth, to strive to excel’. topics of this year’s Fair were: Rural Tourism in Corinth, Health Women and Beauty, Wine and Gastronomy, and Wishing to embrace this message of optimism through active support, our company sponsored the crossing Education. The Fair, which has enjoyed financial support and provided the fuel for the boats accompanying the windsurfer across the Aegean. from MOTOR OIL every year, is an important date in the economic, social and cultural life of the region. 126 127 6. Global Compact: 7. GRI Compliance Level Communication on Progress 2011 MOTOR OIL participates in the United Nations Global Compact, which constitutes the biggest The MOTOR OIL Sustainability Report, which has been published every year since 2002, is the main tool available for Corporate Responsibility initiative in the world. In year 2008, MOTOR OIL became a signatory communicating with our stakeholders about the Group’s efforts and performance in achieving sustainable development through of the UN Global Compact; at the same time the company became a member of the Global Compact the application of the principles and objectives of Corporate Social Responsibility. It contains the most important facts and data Network Hellas. relating to the previous year’s financial, social and environmental performance. The Global Compact incorporates ten fundamental principles relating to human rights, labour rights, The Sustainability Report 2010 has a similar structure to previous editions, so as to facilitate comparisons of performance over environmental protection and anti-corruption. We are committed to these principles, which we have time. The information and data presented in the report concern the parent company MOTOR OIL, the Group subsidiaries AVIN integrated in the policies and processes of the company. MOTOR OIL’s Sustainability Report 2011 OIL, CORAL, CORAL GAS and OFC, which are controlled by MOTOR OIL, and whose activities have a significant impact on contains information relating to our social and environmental practices and the outcomes thereof, issues considered as material for sustainable development. which underline our commitment to the Global Compact. The following chart lists the compliance of MOTOR OIL with the ten Global Compact Principles, by making reference to the relevant chapters The compilation of Sustainability Report 2011 takes full consideration of the ten principles of the United Nations Global of the Sunstainability Report 2011, and to the GRI indicators taken into account in compiling the Compact -as done since 2008while it is based on the 4th revised edition (version G3.1, 2011) of the Global Reporting Initiative Report. (GRI) guidelines for a B application level, just as in the three previous editions of the Report. The GRI guidelines have provided a sound basis for the selection of the material issues that had to be covered by the Report, for an effective communication with stakeholders. Therefore, we herewith publish data for 119 GRI indicators, through which we believe that we provide a complete and balanced picture of our performance on core issues. The ten Principles Reference in the Environmental and GRI Indicator of the Global Compact Social Report or Description of the (G3.1) Implementation Approach The Sustainability Report 2011 is not certified by an external certification authority. Human Rights C C+ B B+ A A+ Principle 1 Businesses should support and respect the Chapters 2 and 3. EC5, LA4, LA6-9, Report on: Report on all criteria listed for Same as requirement for Level B protection of internationally proclaimed Full compliance with relevant Greek legislation and internaLA13-14, HR1-9, SO5, 1.1 Level C plus: Standard Disclosures Report Externally Assured Report Externally Assured Report Externally Assured 2.1 2.10 1.2 human rights. tional conventions. PR1-2, PR8 Profile Disclosures 3.1 3.8, 3.10 3.12 3.9, 3.13 (output) 4.1 4.4, 4.14 4.15 4.5 4.13, Principle 2 Businesses should make sure that they are Chapter 2. HR1-9, SO5 4.16 4.17 not complicit in human rights abuses. Full compliance with relevant Greek legislation and international conventions. Management Approach Not Required Management Approach Disclosures Management Approach Disclosures Disclosures for each Indicator Category for each Indicator Category Labour (output) Principle 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of asChapter 2. LA4-5, HR1-3, HR5, Performance Indicators Report on a minimum of 10 PerReport on a minimum of 20 PerforReport on each core and Sector sociation and the effective recognition of the SO5 & Sector Supplement formance Indicators, including at mance Indicators, at least one from Supplement Indicator with due regard least one from each of: Economic, each of Economic, Environmental, to the Materiality Principle by either: right to collective bargaining. Performance Indicators Social and Environmental. Human rights, Labor, Society, a) reporting on the Indicator or b) (output) Product Responsibility. explaining the reason for its omission. Principle 4 Businesses should uphold the elimination of Chapter 2. HR1-3, HR7, SO5 all forms of forced and compulsory labour. Full compliance with relevant Greek legislation and international conventions. Principle 5 Businesses should uphold the effective aboliChapter 2. HR1-3, HR6, SO5 Where numerical data or performance indicators are relating to investments and recycling refer to the whole tion of child labour. Full compliance with relevant Greek legislation and internapresented, the method of data collection and calculation MOTOR OIL Group, whereas other indicators in this tional conventions. of results is also stated. The Environmental and Health and chapter refer to the MOTOR OIL refinery only. Principle 6 Businesses should uphold the elimination of Chapter 2. EC7, LA2, LA13-15, Safety performance indicators are specifically calculated discrimination in respect of employment and HR1-4, SO5 occupation. according to internationally accepted procedures. The The following table records the GRI Indicators, and in the following clarifications should also be noted: column headed “Reference” the source of information Environment • The Coral and Coral Gas companies’ data that have been relating to each indicator is given. There is no reference to Principle 7 Businesses should support a precautionary Chapters 1 and 4. EC2,EN18, EN26, approach to environmental challenges. EN30, SO5 incorporated in the Sustainability Report 2011 relate to the compliance level for each indicator (full or partial). the whole year, whereas the Report data of year 2010 Principle 8 Businesses should undertake initiatives to Chapters 1 and 4. EN1-13, EN16-28, promote greater environmental responsibility. EN30, SO5, PR3-4 during which MOTOR OIL took over SHELL’s downstream operations in Greece related to the period 1 July -31 The symbols used in the table are: Principle 9 Businesses should encourage the developChapters 1 and 4. EN2, EN5-7, EN10, P. : indicates the page(s) of the Sustainability Report 2011 ment and diffusion of environmentally EN18, EN26-27, EN30, December 2010. friendly technologies. SO5 • In chapter “3. Health and Safety” the MOTOR OIL accident that include information on the indicator. Anti-corruption indicators presented, now relate to the whole of MOTOR : indicates reference to the Annual Financial Report 2011. Principle 10 Businesses should work against corruption in Chapters 1 4.1-4.9, 4.12, SO2-6 OIL (i.e. the refinery and head offices); the relevant data : indicates reference to the company’s website. all its forms, including extortion and bribery. for previous years has been adjusted accordingly. • In chapter “4. Responsibility for the Environment” the data 128 129 Indicator Description Reference Table of GRI Indicators (Global Reporting Initiative G3.1 Content Index) 4.6 Processes in place to avoid conflicts of interest in the Board The equal participation of the non-execIndicator Description Reference utive and independent Board Members safeguards the avoidance Company Profile of conflicts of interest. Assurance is also 1.1 Management statement P. 5 provided by the Internal Audit System. 1.2 Description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities P. 24-26, 80-81 (See Corporate Governance Code) 30-32 Organisational Profile 4.7 Qualifications and expertise of Board Members regarding sustainability The professional experience of Board issues Members, along with their educational 2.1 Name of the reporting organisation back cover level and social status provide assurance 2.2 Primary brands, products, and/or services P. 11-17, for an unbiased global and objective view 12-13,21-27 of the issues. 2.3 Operational structure of the organisation P. 12-13, (See Corporate Governance Code) 21-27, 65-66 2.4 Location of organisation’s headquarters back cover 4.8 Corporate policies, mission and value statements related to sustainP. 5, 24-26, inside back cover ability 2.5 Countries where the organisation operates P. 16-17 4.9 Board procedures for sustainability management P. 24-26 2.6 Ownership structure and legal form 28,94-98 4.10 Evaluation of the Board’s performance regarding sustainability Performance evaluation is anticipated in the Rules of Company Procedures. 2.7 Markets served P. 12-13, 16-17 11-12 4.11 Application of the precautionary principle P. 21, 31-33, 55-58, 77-80 2.8 Scale of the organisation P. 10-17, 26-28,30, 43-45, inside back cover 4.12 Voluntary support for external economic, P. 22-26 9-20,90-91 environmental and social charters or initiatives 2.9 Significant organisational changes in the reporting period P. 2-3, 12-13, 28-30, 125, 4.13 Memberships in associations and advocacy organisations P. 22-23 18-20 4.14 Stakeholder groups engaged by the organisation P. 36-37 2.10 Awards and distinctions received in the reporting period P. 23-24 Report Parameters 4.15 Stakeholder identification P. 36-37 3.1 Reporting period 01/01/2011-31/12/2011 4.16 Approaches to stakeholder engagement P. 36-37 3.2 Most recent previous report P. 132 4.17 Topics raised by stakeholders P. 24-26, 34-37 3.3 Reporting cycle P. 9, 125 Economic Performance Indicators 3.4 Contact point for questions P. 9 DMA EC Disclosure on Management Approach EC Inside back cover P. 10-13, 16-17, 26-28, 3.5 Process for defining report content P. 9, 125 28-30 18-20 3.6 Boundary of the report P. 9, 125 EC1 Directly generated and distributed economic value, including revenues, P. 16-17, 26-27 operating costs, employee compensation, donations and other 9-10 3.7 Limitations on the scope or boundary of the report P. 9, 125 community investments, taxes, and payments to capital providers 3.8 Joint ventures, subsidiaries and outsourcing P. 9, 125 EC2 Climate change financial implications, risks or opportunities Climate change impacts regarding the 3.9 Data measurement techniques P. 125 possible financial implications, risks or 3.10 Explanation of the reasons for re-stating information provided in P. 125 opportunities, constitute parameters earlier reports thoroughly taken into account in the 3.11 Changes from previous reports P. 9, 125 process of analysing, evaluating, approving and planning for investments or other 3.12 Location of the Standard GRI Disclosures P. 126-130 initiatives. 3.13 External assurance P. 125 Governance, Commitments and Engagement EC3 Organisation’s defined benefit plan obligations P. 46-47 82-84 4.1 Corporate governance structure P. 18-21 EC4 Significant state financial assistance MOTOR OIL has not received any 36 significant financial assistance by the state. 4.2 Role and function of the Chairman of the Board of Directors P. 18-21, 94-98 EC5 Entry level wage compared to local minimum wage Employees are compensated over and 4.3 Independent and non-executive members of the Board of Directors P. 18-21 above the National Collective Labour Agreements. 4.4 Co-determination right of employees and shareholders P. 36-37, 42, 32-34 EC6 Local suppliers approach P. 103-104, 123 4.5 Linkage between Executive compensation and achievement of P. 18-21 36 corporate goals EC7 Local recruitment P. 43, 104 130 131 Indicator Description Reference Indicator Description Reference EC8 Infrastructure investments and services for public benefit P. 26-27, 102-104 ΕΝ28 Significant fines and sanctions for No such fines or sanctions. non-compliance with environmental laws EC9 Indirect economic impacts P. 26-27, 42-45, 102-104 30-32,84-87 ΕΝ30 Environmental protection investments and expenses P. 81-82 Environmental Performance Indicators Social Performance Indicators: Labour DMA EN Disclosure on Management Approach EN inside cover page, P. 24-26, 31-33, 76-80 32-34 DMA LA Disclosure on Management Approach LA inside cover page, P.38-42 ΕΝ1 Materials used by weight or volume 13 LA1 Workforce profile P. 43-45 EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled materials P. 97-98 LA2 Employee turnover P. 45 EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary energy source P. 85, inside back cover LA3 Benefits provided to full-time employees P. 46-48 ΕΝ4 Indirect energy consumption by primary source 63,863 MWh from Public Power Corporation LA4 Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements P. 43 ΕΝ5 Energy savings P. 85-88 LA5 Minimum notice periods regarding significant operational changes Notice periods are legally regulated and we accordingly comply. ΕΝ6 Initiatives to produce energy-efficient or renewable energy P. 98 based products and services LA6 Workforce representation in The Health and Safety Committee of occupational health and safety committees the refinery employees represents all the ΕΝ7 Initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption P. 85-88 employees. ΕΝ8 Total water withdrawal by source P. 98-99 LA7 Occupational injuries and lost day rates P. 59-60 ΕΝ9 Effects of water withdrawal P. 98-99 LA8 Preventive healthcare counselling and training regarding serious disP. 70. counselling is provided by ΕΝ10 Percentage and total volume of water recycled and reused P. 99 eases workplaces’ medical services. ΕΝ11 Land management in, or adjacent to sensitive areas, and The refinery is not adjacent to protected LA9 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade P. 58 in areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas or high biodiversity areas. unions LA10 Average hours of training per year per employee P. 49-53 ΕΝ12 Significant impacts of activities, products and services upon biodiverRefer to EN11, in conjunction with the LA11 Programs for skills development and lifelong learning P. 49-53 sity in protected areas, and in areas of high biodiversity value outside described in the Environmental and protected areas Social Report efforts for reducing the LA12 Employee performance and career development reviews P. 39-41 environmental footprint. LA13 Breakdown of employees by category according to gender, age group, P. 43-45 ΕΝ13 Habitats protected or restored There are no protected or restored minority group membership, and other indicators of diversity habitats. LA14 Men to women basic salary ratio There is no differentiation. ΕΝ16 Direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions P. 87-89 LA15 Resuming work after the end of maternity leave Consistent with the legislation ΕΝ17 Other relevant greenhouse gas emissions 62,586 MT (estimation of the Public provisions, such positions are protected. Power Corporation emissions for its energy consumed at the refinery). Social Performance Indicators: Human Rights ΕΝ18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions P. 81-89 DMA HR Disclosure on Management Approach HR P. 39-41 ΕΝ19 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances Non-existent. HR1 Investment agreements including human rights clauses Human rights violations have not been ΕΝ20 NOx, and SOx emissions P. 91-95 either reported or ascertained, hence no ΕΝ21 Total water discharge P. 95-96 relative initiatives have been undertaken. ΕΝ22 Solid waste P. 97 HR2 Suppliers having undergone screening on human rights See HR1. ΕΝ23 Significant spills There were no significant spills. HR3 Employee training on human rights See HR1. EN24 Quantity of hazardous solid waste P. 97 HR4 Incidents of discrimination No such incidents. EN25 Areas impacted by the organisation’s discharge of water and runoff Non-existent. HR5 Operations that limit freedom of association and collective bargaining No such operations. ΕΝ26 Environmental impacts mitigation Marketing of “clean fuels” (zero sulphur HR6 Child labour P. 41 content); addition of Biodiesel in the HR7 Forced or compulsory labour P. 41 produced automotive Diesel. EN27 Percentage of products sold and their packaging materials that are P. 97. No packaging material is involved in HR8 Security personnel training on issues relating to the protection of huP. 66 reclaimed the handling and distribution of fuels. man rights HR9 Violations of the rights of indigenous people Irrelevant 132 Indicator Description Reference Social Performance Indicators: Society DMA SO Disclosure on Management Approach SO Inside cover page, P. 102-104 SO1 Impacts on local communities P. 102-123 SO2 Corruption risks assessment P. 18-21 SO3 Informing employees about policies and procedures against corruption See indicator SO4 SO4 Anti-corruption measures No actions have been taken, as no incidents have been brought to the attention of the Board through the internal audit procedures. SO5 Participation in public policy development We are members of business associations which participate in public policy development. SO6 Contributions to political organizations None SO7 Legal actions for anti-competitive behaviour None SO8 Fines for non-compliance with laws None Social Performance Indicators: Product Responsibility DMA PR Disclosure on Management Approach PR P. 31-33, 34-35, 68 PR1 Health and safety impacts of products and services P. 31-33, 68 PR2 Non-compliance incidents with regulations and codes concerning No such incidents. health and safety impacts of products and services PR3 Products information and labeling Material Safety Data sheets for all our products. PR4 Non-compliance incidents with regulations and codes No such incidents. concerning labeling and product information PR5 Customer satisfaction P. 34-36 PR6 Legal compliance of marketing communication programs Marketing communication programmes are legally compliant. PR7 Non-compliance incidents of marketing communication programs with No such incidents. regulations and codes PR8 Complaints regarding breaches of customer privacy No such incidents. PR9 Fines for non-compliance of products No such incidents. KEY GROUP DATA FOR 2011 Τurnover 8,739 million euros CO2 EMISSIONS Earnings after tax 143 million euros 2,075 1,977 Dividents paid 1 0.50 euros/share 1,994 1,939 1,945 1,881 Total assets 2,566 million euros 1,311 Refinery production 9.4 million tons 0.241 0.258 0.258 0.241 MOTOR OIL sales 10.8 million tons 0.236 Sunstainability Reports of Previous Years domestic sales export sales 4.5 million tons 6.3 million tons -24.4% 0.202 0.195 Crude oil refining capacity 185,000 barels/day 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Refinery storage tanks capacity 2.5 million cubic meters ANNUAL EMISSIONS SPECIFIC ANNUAL EMISSIONS Petrol stations 1,250 (THOUSAND MT) (MT CO2 PER CRUDE AND FEEDSTOCK TON) Employees (annual average)2 1,928 Training man hours 20,800 hours ENERGY CONSUMPTION Total investments 2000-2011 1,238 million euros Environmental investments and 695.5 million euros 27,491 29,033 expenses 2000-2011 27,550 26,952 26,146 27,848 Recyclingsolid waste disposal 2,448 tons 20,042 Health and Safety investments 78.5 million euros 3.61 3.68 3.56 3.42 2000-2011 3.22 2.81 2.79 Social contribution 2002-2011 3 32.8 million euros -24.2% Social product4 499.1 million euros Refinery certifications ISO 9001:2008 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 ISO 14001:2004 ISO 17025:2005 ENERGY CONSUMPTION (TJ) SPECIFIC ENERGY CONSUMPTION (TJ/THOUSAND MT OF RAW MATERIALS) OHSAS 18001:2007 EMAS III ER1221/2009 EN 12591:2009 SULPHUR DIOXIDE EMISSIONS (for asphalt) 1. 0.25 euros/share was an interim dividend paid and accounted for in 7.1 January 2011 , while a dividend of 0.25 euros/share was paid and accounted 6.7 4.5 4.6 4.6 for in October 2011. 3.7 2.7 2. Includes the employees of MOTOR OIL, Avin Oil, Coral, Coral Gas and -77.0% OFC. 1.22 0.92 0.28 3. Refers to donations and sponsorships. 0.58 0.56 0.55 0.40 4. Refers to the portion of revenues distributed to stakeholders. 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 ANNUAL EMISSIONS SPECIFIC ANNUAL EMISSIONS (KG SO2 (THOUSAND MT) PER MT CRUDE AND FEEDSTOCK TON) ANNUAL WATER CONSUMPTION 0.402 0.391 0.375 0.375 0.317 0.328 -21.1% 3,108 125 3,149 3,137 82 3,165 146 2,894 2,962 3,145 3,129 3,165 2,962 3,019 3,044 4 8 0 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 IMPORTED WATER (THOUSAND M3) SPECIFIC WATER CONSUMPTION (M3/MT OF DESALINATED WATER (THOUSAND M3) RAW MATERIAL) ALL THE MATERIALS USED FOR PRINTING THE MOTOR OIL SOCIAL REPORT TOTAL CONSUMPTION (THOUSAND M3) ARE FRIENDLY TO THE ENVIRONMENT www.moh.gr Headquarters Refinery Irodou Attikou 12Α P.O.Box. 23 P.C. 15124, Μarousi P.C. 20100, Korinthos GREECE GREECE Tel +30 210 8094000 Tel +30 27410 48602, 48702 Fax +30 210 8094444 Fax +30 27410 49001, 49101, 48255
