Responsible Business Report 2011 Responsibility Report 2011 I The Rezidor Hotel Group Contents 1 Message from the President & CEO 2 About Rezidor 3 The World Around Us 6 Organisation, Governance and Tmeline 7 Responsible Business Highlights 8 Pillar 1: Health and Safety of our Guests and Employees 14 Pillar 2: Ethical and social issues in the company and the society The Rezidor Hotel Group 18 Pillar 3: Reducing our impact on the environment 25 Environmental certifications 26 Summary of progress 28 GRI Standard Disclosures Table 30 Global Compact Compliance 31 About the Report II Responsibility Report 2011 Unless otherwise indicated, achievements mentioned in this report cover all hotels which are managed, leased or franchised by the Rezidor Hotel Group. This includes 325 properties which were in operation on 31 December 2011. Note: From 18 January 2012, the Rezidor Hotel group became a member of the Carlson Rezidor Hotel Group. Carlson owns the core brands Radisson and Park Inn and is the majority shareholder of The Rezidor Hotel Group. The legal company entity is the Rezidor Hotel Group. Therefore this report refers to Rezidor. See www.rezidor.com for more information. Message from the President & CEO Going global 2011 marked another impressive year for Responsible Business at Rezidor and across all of our hotels in Europe, the Middle East and Africa. In 2012, together with our strategic partner Carlson, we are going global. The three pillars of Responsible Business The Rezidor Hotel Group 1. T  aking responsibility for health and safety of guests and employees 2. R  especting social and ethical issues in the company as well as in the community 3. R  educing our impact on the environment. 1 Responsibility Report 2011 Under our joint name – the Carlson Rezidor three pillars: the health and safety of guests •Global Responsible Business Action Month Hotel Group – we are seen as one operator and employees; respecting social and ethical (in 2011, Rezidor celebrated the eighth across the worldwide market. This global issues in the company and the communities in edition of this event) cooperation also means we give even more which we operate; and minimising our envi•Partnership with the World Childhood attention to our role as a Responsible Corporate ronmental footprint. Foundation Citizen. Together with our guests, owners, Our passion for Responsible Business is •New global partnership with World Cleanup employees and other stakeholders, we continushared by all our employees. They live 2012. ously strive to maximise our environmental Responsible Business in the daily operations and social performance. We are already proud and carry the core values of the company In 2012 we return to our environmental leaderthat our efforts have been recognised and through our unique Yes I Can! service philosship roots with the launch of an ambitious rewarded: in 2011, for the second year in a ophy. Together with Carlson, we are now energy saving initiative – Think Planet! row, Rezidor has been named one of the looking to achieve truly global synergies in We will continue our commitment to Responworld’s most ethical companies. the area of Responsible Business. These will sible Business as we grow our leading brands Rezidor has come a long way since we piobe achieved through our: globally. neered Responsible Business in the hospitality industry with the launch of our environmental • Global Business School policy in 1989. Over the years, our Responsi•I ndustry leading Responsible Business ble Business programme has developed into an training, including a module focusing on award-winning strategy which is focused on Child Protection Kurt Ritter, President & CEO About Rezidor The Rezidor Hotel Group is one of the fastest growing hotel operators in the world with a presence in 65 countries and three strong hotel brands. The hotels in our portfolio are operated under is operated under a worldwide licensing agreeeither operated by Rezidor itself under a lease three core brands: Radisson Blu; Park Inn by ment with the Italian fashion house Missoni. or a management agreement, or by a separate Radisson; and Hotel Missoni. We develop and At the end of 2011, Rezidor had 325 hotels operator using one of the Rezidor brands license Radisson Blu and Park Inn by Radisson (circa 71,000 rooms) in operation and 100 under a franchise agreement. Our Responsible in Europe, the Middle East and Africa (EMEA) hotels (circa 22,000 rooms) under development Business programme is encouraged at all under Master Franchise Agreements with in 65 countries across EMEA. hotels, including franchised properties, and Carlson, a global, privately owned hospitality Rezidor focuses on hotel management. our corporate offices. and travel company. The Hotel Missoni brand Currently, all hotels in Rezidor’s portfolio are The Rezidor Hotel Group 25 51 3 40 Hotels in operation 7 4 13 1820 4 3 Hotels under development 9 4 12 6 Regional offices 8 11 8 1 23 2 1 1 2 1 7 6 3 2 24 4 11 2 21 1 Responsibility Report 2011 2 11 1 4 2 2 1 1 12 2 11 45 1 2 21 1 1 3 1 3 1 9 6 1 12 6 3 5 22 1 1 6 1 1 1 1 2 1 1 1 1 2 1 6 3 The World Around Us – Responsible Business Stakeholders Striving to be a successful, sustainable business requires a dedicated appreciation of the environment in which we operate. Rezidor recognises we have an impact on a wide range of stakeholders, both directly and indirectly. Our Impact, Risks and Opportunities Rezidor believes this gives us clear responsibilWorkforces are becoming increasingly global. In 2010, the World Travel & Tourism Council ity to take serious action on climate change. At The hospitality industry in general, and Rezi(WTTC) estimated that the global travel Rezidor, we do this by adhering to the UN dor in particular, employs people from very industry generated 258 million jobs and conGlobal Compact and Caring for Climate inidiverse ethnic and religious backgrounds. tributed 9% of the global gross domestic prodtiative and by continuously striving to lower With hotels in 65 countries across EMEA, uct. An industry of this size has a considerable our carbon footprint. Rezidor’s staff represent more than 140 differimpact on the social, economic and environent nationalities. mental conditions around the world. Reducing Water Consumption The wide array of countries in which we We have identified three critical global Hotels are very resource-intensive, particuoperate and the backgrounds of our employees The Rezidor Hotel Group impacts and trends that affect our business and larly in terms of energy and water use. They means that we have to diligently check we value chain: climate change; resource use, and also impact the natural environment through comply with local laws, inform our employees employment. waste generation. of their rights, ensure non-discrimination, and In 2006 the UN estimated that by 2050, the make sure our staff operate to the highest ethCaring for Climate world’s need for drinkable water will double ical principles wherever they are located. The UN World Tourism Organisation and the need for fresh water for agriculture For our Code of Ethics and its companywide (UNWTO) estimates that travel and tourism, will increase by 80%. In light of this predicimplementation, Rezidor has been listed as one excluding aviation, was responsible for about tion, Rezidor has recognised the urgent need of the World’s Most Ethical Companies for 3% of global greenhouse gas emissions in to continuously reduce water consumption in the second year in a row. 3 2010. UNWTO believes that this figure will our operations and to integrate the newest At Rezidor we believe diversity is an asset. Responsibility Report 2011 grow at 2.5% per year until 2035. water-saving technologies in our new build We can learn from each other as a company The tourism sector does not only contribute hotels and during major renovations. and as individuals, develop talent globally, and to climate change, it also faces risks as a conseprogress further as a global workforce. quence of climate change. These risks are Being a global employer mainly linked to hotel locations, an increase in “It has been said that arguing against globalsevere weather patterns, and to increasing legization is like arguing against the laws of gravislative pressures and taxation related to carity,” Kofi Annan, UN Secretary General bon emissions. (1997-2006). The World Around Us Our Stakeholders and Our Responsible Memberships Prostitution, Child Pornography and TrafBusiness Policy Together with Carlson, we are joint members ficking of Children for Sexual Purposes) and Rezidor has identified eight main stakeholder of the following organisations: is supported by the UNWTO and UNIgroups. We maintain clear commitments to • I nternational Tourism Partnership (ITP). CEF. In 2004 Carlson was the first major each group which are detailed in our ResponITP brings together the world’s leading North American hospitality company to sign sible Business policy. international hotel companies to provide a the Code. Together, we adhere to the Code’s The basis for identifying and selecting our voice for environmental and social responsiprinciples in all of our hotels. key Responsible Business stakeholders relates bility in the industry. Rezidor was one of the primarily to the extent to which we influence founding members of ITP in 2004 and, or impact them: economically; socially; and together with Carlson, we continue to play environmentally. a leading role in the hospitality industry Through our daily operations and dedicated forum on responsible business. exchanges with each stakeholder group, we • World Travel & Tourism Council (WTTC). continuously listen to their expectations for An international organisation of travel both today and the future. industry executives which promotes global travel and tourism. The Responsible Business Approach • I TP and WTTC Joint Hotel Carbon MeaAt Rezidor, Responsible Business means consurement Initiative. ITP and WTTC, sidering both our shortand long-term intertogether with all major hospitality compaests, and integrating economic, environmental nies, are collaborating on a groundbreaking and social considerations into our decision initiative to unite industry efforts to create making. a single methodology for calculating carbon The Rezidor Hotel Group Since we created our Responsible Business footprints and consistent metrics for comprogramme in 2001, Rezidor has focused its municating emissions. Rezidor is an active activities on three pillars: member of the working group and is partici1. T  aking responsibility for the health and pating in the pilot tests. safety of guests and employees • Signatory to the Code of Conduct for the 2. Respecting social and ethical issues in the Protection of Children from Sexual Exploicompany and the community tation in Travel and Tourism. The Code 3.Reducing our impact on the environment. started as a project of ECPAT (End Child 4 Responsibility Report 2011 Stakeholder Responsible Business Policy Employees We educate and facilitate for our employees to make a conscious decision in favour of environmental, ethical and social issues in their work and private lives. Customers We inform and make it easy for our guests to participate in Responsible Business related activities at our hotels. Property Owners We work together with property owners to find innovative solutions that satisfy our economic, environmental and social objectives. Shareholders We provide shareholders and investors with timely, accurate and transparent information on Responsible Business performance, related risks and opportunities. Suppliers We strive to purchase products that have a reduced environmental impact during their lifecycle, from suppliers that demonstrate environmental and social responsibility. Authorities We require our managers to abide by local and international legislation, especially regarding labour laws, health and safety, human rights and the environment. Community We take an active role in the international responsible business community, and contribute to the local communities where we operate. Environment We do our utmost to continuously improve our performance in the areas of energy, water, chemicals and resource consumption, and waste generation to reduce our impact on the environment and minimize our carbon footprint. The World Around Us Responsibility Report 2011 5 The Rezidor Hotel Group Organisation, Governance and Timeline Rezidor’s Responsible Business policy is embedded at all levels of the organisation. We combine both a top-down and bottom-up approach to ensure maximum engagement in operations and the greatest impact for the Group as a whole. Head Office CEO and Executive Responsible Business reports directly to the CEO of Rezidor. The Executive Committee is frequently updated Committee on strategies, plans and progress. Responsible Business Sets the Responsible Business strategy and follow-up, and ensures cross-departmental cooperation. Department Regions Regional Responsible There are a total of 19 Regional Responsible Business Coordinators who set regional targets in line with Group Business Coordinators strategy. They also follow-up on progress. Area Vice Presidents are closely involved. The Rezidor Hotel Group Hotels Responsible Business Each hotel has a Responsible Business Coordinator who works closely with the Hotel’s General Manager. Coordinators The Coordinator defines and implements Responsible Business action plans in line with both regional and Group priorities. 6 Responsible Business Yesterday and Today Responsibility Report 2011 Rezidor has a unique and long history of Responsible Business. 1988 2003 2008 • Creation and adoption of the SAS International • Launch of Hotels Environment Action Month • Launch of rezidorethics.com, an independently Hotels Safety and Security Standards. (now Responsible Business Action Month). managed website which enables employees to • Radisson Blu Plaza Hotel, Oslo, is first Rezidor raise concerns about potential breaches of our 1989 property to receive third party environmental Code of Ethics. • First environmental policy driven by SAS Group. certification with the Nordic Swan eco-label. • Monthly TRIC=S reports distributed to all General • Rezidor becomes chair of International Hotels Managers. 1996 Environment Initiative Executive Committee. • Rezidor is one of the founding members of US • Launch of the Radisson SAS environmental proState Department’s Overseas Security Advisory gramme with 24 action points. 2004 Council (OSAC) Hotel Security Working Group. • Founding member of the International Hotels • Rezidor’s efforts are recognised with the HospitalEnvironment Initiative. ity Award for Environmental Protection. 2009 • Carlson Companies signs ECPAT Code of Conduct • Rezidor signs the United Nations Global Compact. 2001 against sexual exploitation of children. • Launch of the Responsible Business programme 2010 encompassing the three pillars of health and well2005 • Rezidor is named one of the World’s Most Ethical being, social and ethical responsibility, environ• First Rezidor Responsible Business Award given to Companies by the Ethisphere Institute. mental responsibility. the Radisson SAS St Helen’s Hotel (Dublin). • 44% of our hotels are eco-labelled. • Responsible Business Coordinators appointed and • Rezidor leads a joint effort with Carlson companies trained. 2006 to further develop safety and security globally for • First Responsible Business Training initiated with • Responsible Business programme awarded the companies and their brands. 35% of staff trained by year-end. HOFTEL Owner-Friendly Innovation of the Year. • First global responsible business action month with • Monthly reporting of energy, water and waste. Carlson Companies. • Save the Children becomes corporate 2007 charity organisation. • World Childhood Foundation becomes corporate charity organisation. • Rezidor is first international hotel group to offer guests carbon offsetting. A Success Story: Highlights 2011 2011 was a remarkable year in Rezidor’s Responsible Business journey with successes in all three pillars of our Responsible Business programme. Pillar 1: Health and Safety of Guests and Employees • Rezidor Business School celebrates 15-years of operations. • Brain Food launched in Denmark, Norway and Sweden. • Employee satisfaction remains high at 86.7%. The Rezidor Hotel Group Pillar 2: Social and Ethical Issues in the Company and the Community • For the second year in a row, we are named one of the World’s Most Ethical Companies by the Ethisphere Institute. • 80% of Rezidor hotels participate in the Responsible Business action month for the community in September. 385 TEUR is raised for local and international charities. 7 • Global partnership with World Cleanup Responsibility Report 2011 launched. Pillar 3: Minimising our Environmental Footprint • Proportion of eco-labelled hotels in the Group reaches 55% (or 179 hotels). • Environmental performance is maintained in the context of increased occupancy. • Carlson and Rezidor participate in the ITP and WTTC’s Hotel Carbon Measurement Initiative. Think Planet! Key Performance Indicators In January 2012, Rezidor launched Think 2011 2010 2009 2008 Planet, an ambitious energy saving initiative 2 which aims to reduce energy consumption by Energy/m (kWh) Radisson Blu 291 285 279 292 25% by 2016. Building on our environmental 2 Energy/m (kWh) Park Inn 306 304 290 308 successes of the past years, Rezidor hotels will continuously reduce their resource consumpWater/ Guest Night (litres) Radisson Blu 424 433 415 461 tion by focusing on operations and investWater/ Guest Night (litres) Park Inn 301 327 358 375 ments. In parallel, challenging environmental Waste/ Guest Night (kg) Radisson Blu 1.48 1.49 1.69 1.70 targets will be set for major renovations and new builds. The target of 25% will ensure Waste/ Guest Night (kg) Park Inn 1.10 1.39 1.51 1.77 Rezidor exceeds current environmental stanMedallia Guest Satisfaction Environmental Conscientiousness 8.1 8.1 7.9 — dards by utilising the latest available lowClimate Analysis Employee Satisfaction score 86.7 86.7 85.8 85.1 energy technologies. Average 3T Monitor Safety and Security self-audit score 92.7 92.9 93.7 92.3 Pillar 1 An Innovative Brainchild: Brain Food for Meetings by Radisson Blu The Rezidor Hotel Group Brain Food is an exciting new concept developed by Radisson Blu for meetings and conferences. Brain Food helps maintain delegates’ concentration. Brain Food is the latest industry leading innoThe Brain Food recipes are based on six “I’m very proud of the work vation from Rezidor. Developed in close coopsimple principles: 8 that went into creating our eration with our Radisson Blu chefs in the 1. More fish, whole grains, eggs, fruit and Nordics and a team of highly qualified experts vegetables Responsibility Report 2011 inspired new Brain Food and nutritionists, Brain Food is a menu of reci2. Use of local and fresh ingredients where pes which are designed to ensure that all feasible offering. Our fantastic meeting participants remain at their maxi3. Pure ingredients with minimal processing mum performance level throughout an event. 4. Less meat and a fat content of 10% Nordic team really thought Brain Food brings benefits to both delegates 5. Naturally sweetened food and never more outside the box to create a and organisers. than 10% added sugar Scientific studies have shown that food 6. A focus on quality and taste experiences unique new Food & Beveraffects our brain function. Eating the right that sharpen the senses. nutrient at the right time improves our ability age product that is innovato learn and to concentrate. Smart eating can In line with our Responsible Business commitspeed-up our reactions and can even lower ments, fresh and locally sourced ingredients tive, relevant, exciting and stress levels – all factors that crucially affect are utilised wherever possible as they are the compellingly attractive to the quality and success of a meeting. most nutritious, taste the best and are kindest to the environment. our customers.” Brain Food has been launched to enormous acclaim across Denmark, Norway and Sweden. Evaluations are now underway to see how this Michael Neuner, fantastic, original concept can be introduced into other Rezidor regions. Vice President Food & Beverage Pillar 1 Pillar 1: Health and Safety of our Guests and Employees With hotel operations in 65 countries, keeping hotel guests and staff safe in sometimes risky local situations is an essential part of our business. Rezidor believes that maintaining appropriate levels of safety and security is dependent on the daily actions of every employee at every level of the company. This requires a dynamic programme that can be adapted to meet changing circumstances in different locations. TRIC=S – The Rezidor Formula responsible for collating and sharing informaof every employee. Therefore, one of the founfor Safety and Security tion, analysis and threat assessments with all dations of the programme is Employee Safety Although TRIC=S is designed as a dynamic parts of the company on a continual basis. and Security. programme, guidelines are needed to ensure Rezidor works very closely with partners We encourage our employees to report danthe safety and security of guests, employees such as risk engineers at Willis (insurance gers or irregularities, take immediate action to and owners’ investments while maintaining (or broker), in order to help hotels mitigate safety prevent injury or damage, and to follow-up The Rezidor Hotel Group even enhancing) guest and employee satisfacand security risks. The Willis Blue risk manand ensure that dangers are removed and tion. Therefore Rezidor has developed a foragement benchmarking programme has been abnormalities corrected. The simple version of mula known as TRIC=S, which stands for specifically tailored for Rezidor. It follows the Rezidor incident response programme folThreat Assessment + Risk Evaluation and MitRezidor’s Four Cornerstone structure for lows three steps: igation + Incident Response Preparedness + Guest Safety and Security, Employee Safety 1. Sound the alarm Crisis Management, Communications and and Security, Fire Safety and Operational 2. Save lives Continuity = Safe, Secure and Sellable hotels. Security. Willis’ risk engineers survey a per3. Solve the problem. Good, objective threat assessment requires centage of the portfolio annually in order to honest, open communication within the measure performance against benchmarks. Basing our approach to all incidents on these 9 Group, so information, experience and good In addition, Rezidor hotels carry out an three simple steps helps to ensure employees Responsibility Report 2011 practice is widely shared. In addition to news annual operational safety and security selfcan tackle issues as quickly and as close to and media monitoring, Rezidor maintains subassessment based on the same four cornersource as possible, thus limiting the risk that scriptions to third-party risk analysis and alert stones. a small issue can cause a larger incident. services. Rezidor also encourages hotels to actively engage in safety and security related Safe, Secure Employees Ensure Yes I Can! – Always Care forums on a local level. Safe Secure Hotels Yes I Can! is our company vision at Rezidor Rezidor Corporate Security is part of the At Rezidor we understand that maintaining and the Always Care motto for our safety and support structure the company has put in the high levels of safety and security that security programme was inspired by this place for it’s decentralised and individually guests, employees and owners rightfully vision of taking personal responsibility and empowered hotels. Corporate Security is expect is only achievable through the actions showing Yes I Can! hospitality. Always Care Responsibility Report 2011 10 The Rezidor Hotel Group Pillar 1 Pillar 1 says that if we care about people, care about money, but more importantly it is protecting • Bottles made from recyclable PETG property and care about the world around us, company assets, employees and customers.” • Caps and soap packaging are made in we will also take personal responsibility for We feel confident that the built-in dynamics recyclable PP protecting these vital elements in our lives. It in our programmes will assist us to continue • Accessories are packaged in recyclable is therefore everyone’s responsibility to Always meeting the challenges we face. PET/PE and paper. Care. Since November 2010, Rezidor has assisted Carlson Companies with the further developCommunication at all Levels ment of corporate safety and security proHotel Radisson Blu Hotel Nice The goal of our Safety and Security processes. It is our goal to bring the corporate – Winner Award for Diversity Policy gramme is to meet the ongoing challenges we safety and security guidelines of both compaThe Radisson Blu Hotel Nice has been a face. This involves monitoring threat developnies closer together, providing a global champion of diversity for many years. The ments – from pandemics to crime to terrorism, umbrella of safety, security and resilience for hotel trains all staff, conducts an active both globally and locally – whether they are our brands. In 2011 this resulted in the full pro-diversity policy and fights against slowly bubbling-up under the surface or rapexchange of information and cooperation on discrimination. In October the hotel won idly unfolding in front of us. To ensure that the development of globally aligned libraries an award for its overall diversity policy at we are on top of these challenges, Rezidor of good practice that are available to all hotels the inaugural Diversity Awards for the shares a TRIC=S report with all of our hotels affiliated with the companies, regardless of Provence-Alpes-Cote d’Azur region of and operational units each month. The reports their geographic location. TRIC=S reports are southern France. Under its Diversity contain data that comes from the two-way also tailored and distributed to all geographic Charter, the hotel pursues a policy of equal communication between individual hotels and locations, helping us improve our awareness treatment in all areas of its operations. the corporate offices to which they report. and ensuring our brands become stronger, This sharing of information keeps our prosafer and more secure. The Rezidor Hotel Group gramme very dynamic, allows us to learn from Healthy and Happy Staff the experiences of others, and helps us to conHealthy and Happy Guests Rezidor’s philosophy has always been to protinuously improve the information and the Creating a healthy and pleasant environment mote people from within the organisation. We good practice library our hotels can access. in our hotels is one of Rezidor’s top priorities. are committed to developing each employee to We focus on offering both non smoking and their full potential. We offer a range of tools Cooperation at all Levels accessible rooms. Of our 70,766 hotel rooms, to foster people and to ensure development We advise our hotels to play an active role in 85% are non-smoking, whilst 48% of our from within. Our courses are focused on pertheir local community crime prevention prohotels are entirely smoke-free in guestrooms, sonal development and continuous learning. grammes, regional or national hotel associapublic spaces and back-of-house areas. Over This focus has led to extraordinary results: 11 tions and other groups that can help them 1,500 rooms (or 2% of the total) are adapted to 95% of our general managers are developed adapt their safety and security programmes to the needs of disabled guests. from within the company. Responsibility Report 2011 meet local needs and requirements. We also In 2010, Rezidor hotels in Denmark encourage them to share information and launched Brain Food an innovative solution Rezidor 5-step People Development good practices that can benefit others. for meetings. Since then the concept has been Programme At the corporate level, Rezidor is an original enthusiastically adopted in many other counRezidor focuses on a comprehensive and ambimember of the US Overseas Security Advisory tries (see page 8). tious 5-step people development programme. Council (OSAC) Hotel Security Working Responsible Business practices are incorpoIt includes basic training around the group’s Group. We are also actively involved in other rated into our hotel restaurants in general and unique service philosophy Yes I Can!, high programmes designed to make hotels and in Rezidor’s restaurant concepts: RBG; Fellini; level training to develop on-the-job skills, a travel safer and more secure for everyone. and Verres en Ver. Hotel guidelines are to: Management Development Programme, a • Use local and organic food wherever possible company owned Business School (see page 13) Tomorrow’s TRIC=S • Offer vegetarian and healthy options in each and a dedicated Mentor-Mentee Programme We live in a world of real-time communicamenu for future General Managers. The programme tions, where responsibility for ensuring the • Eliminate unsustainable ingredients from includes the mandatory New Hire Orientasafety, security and protection of infrastructhe menu (for example, bluefin tuna) tion, on-the-job skills development, Yes I Can! ture is increasingly being shifted from govern• Eliminate single portion packaging from the and Living Responsible Business. ment agencies to the private sector. This breakfast buffets. brings a new wave of challenges: we not only Focus on Responsible Business training have a duty to care but we also have a duty to Rezidor offers guests who stay at our hotels All Rezidor employees are trained in our perform. We are also fully aware that our the most environmentally friendly products. unique Living Responsible Business training actions will be visible. Our TRIC=S proFor our Anne Sémonin range of bathroom module. Heads of Departments and General gramme has been developed to meet these new amenities at Radisson Blu hotels, this commitManagers receive an additional Leading demands of transparency and accountability. ment translates into 100% paraben-, siliconResponsible Business course. An external review of our Corporate Secuand GMO-free products, and a guarantee of The Living Responsible Business training rity department and the TRIC=S programme no animal testing. To help reduce environprogramme covers the 3 pillars of the Responwas carried out in 2009 by the UK-based conmental impact further, Anne Sémonin guest sible Business programme and illustrates how sultancy firm BGN Risk. BGN’s report conamenities are made of recyclable packaging each employee can live Responsible Business cluded: “This model is providing value for including: in their everyday job and at home. In addition Pillar 1 we focus on the Code of Ethics, Human rights units. This is an outstanding result within our Rezidor’s Equal Opportunities Policy states and Child Protection. industry and other service industries worldwide. that no discrimination due to age, race, religion, gender or disability is allowed, and all Employee satisfaction Celebrating diversity Equal Opportunities our hotels have procedures in place to ensure Rezidor aims to be the employer of choice for Taking into account all hotels, under all conthis is the case. our people. We care for our employees, tract types, more than 35,000 employees involve them in our planning and decisionworked under the Rezidor brands during 2011. Empowering Employees making processes and ask for their feedback. The company counts no less than 140 nationRezidor pays fair wages according to industry Our annual Climate Analysis, a Group-wide alities amongst the workforce, 57% of which is standards. During 2011 we had no legal employee satisfaction survey (conducted by an male. breaches with regard to labour legislation. external independent party) found that A strong understanding and respect of culRezidor respects the rights of employees to employee satisfaction remains high at 86.7% tural differences is essential to Rezidor’s sucjoin trade unions if they so choose and to barin 2011 (same level as 2010). The 2011 survey cess given that we employ people from many gain collectively in accordance with local laws. included 23,108 participants from 263 business different nationalities and operate hotels in Pursuant to the European Union Directive over 65 countries. Diversity amongst the on Works Councils (94/45/ EC, the Works workforce in our hotels is as old as the hospiCouncil Directive) Rezidor has established a Radisson Blu Hotels in Brussels Win tality industry itself. Experience across differEuropean Works Council, which has been Belgian Diversity Award ent hotels and different countries is an inteentered into by representatives of our central The two Radisson Blu hotels in Brussels gral part of any hospitality career. management and employees. Annual meetings (EU and Royal) started their diversity plan The Rezidor Hotel Group supports staff are held, where issues such as the company’s in 2009 with the specific goal to recruit transfers throughout the hotels in all counfinances, performance, future ventures and people over 45-years of age and people tries, enabling our employees to grow with other important issues are discussed with The Rezidor Hotel Group with handicaps. Following two years of Rezidor and to develop themselves. As much employee representatives. hard work, Carla Georges (HR Manager of as we perceive our guests to be individuals Rezidor strives to handle all operational the RDB Royal) and Sandra Reygaert (HR with individual needs and wishes, we also perchanges in a transparent and open fashion, Manager of the RDB EU) received financeive our employees to be individuals with with the goal of giving our employees fair cial backing from the Belgian government individual backgrounds and cultures. Employinfluence. When taking over an existing hotel, to help them succeed in their project. ees are hired for their attitude and willingness we endeavour to retain the majority of the Radisson Blu is the first hotel company to to serve the guest. Cultural differences enable employees of the earlier hotel brand. receive the Diversity Award in Belgium. us as an employer, and as a host, to cater to the 12 needs of our clientele on an individual basis. Responsibility Report 2011 Pillar 1 Happy Birthday: the Business School@Rezidor turns 15 The Rezidor Hotel Group The Business School @ Rezidor is an integral part of Rezidor’s people development program and gives every employee the tools they need to aim for the top. The Business School @ Rezidor is the primary University (US) and Huthwaite International “15 Fantastic years, learning platform for employees within Rezi(UK) have provided training through our 13 10,000 delegates and dor. The School was launched in 1996 when School. Rezidor recognised a need to take responsibilIn 2011, Rezidor’s Business School went Responsibility Report 2011 over 20 top class training ity for the training and development of our global. Carlson hotels in America started employees in a structured way. This approach training staff in their hotels using the Rezidor programmes, that’s really has ensured consistency, streamlined costs and success formula. fostered the company’s Yes I Can! service culexciting. But, most of all ture. A school that cares seeing our team members As a people business, Rezidor has always In July 2011 the Business School celebrated its focused heavily on personal development and 15th anniversary in a very special way in grow and become our continuous learning in order to help employCopenhagen, Denmark. Over 150 delegates ees grow. The aim of the +20 different courses were attending 13 different classes at the time. ‘Leaders of Tomorrow’ offered through the School is to positively Using the motto: ‘There’s no Business School impact our key business objectives of guest, without Responsible Business,’ the School gives real satisfaction.” employee and owner satisfaction. organised a series of social events to raise The initiative has helped Rezidor to posimoney for the UN High Commission for Reftively influence revenue, quality and value, ugees (UNHCR) to benefit the 800,000 disJan Spooren, while at the same time offering thought-proplaced persons who had fled Libya. On the voking, stimulating and enjoyable training for first morning of the School, over 100 delegates Director People participants. The School has won several presran the 2.5 km Fun Run, raising more than Development tigious international awards and has now 2,5 TEUR. This was followed by a spectacular trained more than 10,000 delegates! Flash Mob dance by 150 Rezidorians in Courses are facilitated either by Rezidor’s Copenhagen’s Central Station – the first time own internal trainers or by external consulthis had ever been done by a hotel group in tants who are specialists in their subject. EMEA. The Flash Mob video has been viewed Highly respected institutes such as Cornell more than 8,000 times on YouTube and offers viewers the option to donate to the UNHCR. By Pillar 2 An Appealing Proposition: The Box Appeal Middle East The Rezidor Hotel Group In 2011, 10 Rezidor hotels across the Middle East collected 10,000 boxes with essential everyday items for local labourers. The Box Appeal was first created by the Radismalls all pledging their support. Much atten“Bringing together hundreds son Blu Dubai Media City in September 2007 tion was paid to involving the younger genera14 and even thousands of peoto coincide with our annual Responsible Busition, with fun activities in schools being a ness Month. The appeal asks local communihuge focus throughout the campaign. We also Responsibility Report 2011 ple for the Box Appeal is the ties and businesses to fill a shoe box with a list worked closely with community groups, womof 13 essential everyday items, from toothpaste en’s guilds, religious institutions, and embasmost rewarding outcome of to t-shirts, which are then distributed to sies. impoverished labourers around the United A Box Appeal Facebook page was estabour 4 year old campaign. Arab Emirates (UAE). lished to bring the whole community together. We’re happy to make a small Formerly known as the ShoeBox Appeal, People were encouraged to post photos of the charity campaign has grown more successthemselves collecting boxes to promote difference in the lives of the ful each year. In 2011 it was decided that the friendly rivalry. The Facebook page proved campaign would be rolled-out across the Midvery successful, with around 700 people joinneedy in our community and dle East region. A new look, logo and name ing in just three weeks. were created for the 2011 edition to ensure The Box Appeal team worked tirelessly with hope to make the impact that the appeal was consistent. Renamed The local media within the various countries to even bigger in 2012.” Box Appeal, the aim was to collect 10,000 highlight the appeal and to build interest. boxes, more than ever before from all Rezidor Media were granted behind-the-scenes foothotels in the UAE, Oman, Bahrain and Cairo. age, weekly updates and news. The aim was to Being a charity campaign there was little provide original and creative content to ensure Klara Zakis, budget assigned to the appeal, so the monthlarger and more prominent features in the PR Manager long activity relied heavily on the use of public media. This strategy worked with The Box and community relations. Several partnerships Appeal becoming front page news around the Middle East were established with local companies who region. were looking to take part in a responsible busiThe Box Appeal reached its target of 10,000 ness scheme. We had a fantastic response with boxes and the plans for 2012 are even bigger companies ranging from radio stations to and better! Pillar 2 Pillar 2: Ethical and social issues in the company and the community Rezidor hotels have an important responsibility as corporate citizens of their local communities. They undertake this responsibility by contributing to fundraising and community actions with local non-profit organisations, schools, orphanages, and homes for the elderly. Supporting the World Childhood Responsible Business Action Month The official World Cleanup 2012 campaign Foundation In September each year – Responsible Busistarted with an international conference at the Carlson Rezidor Hotel Group supports the ness Action Month (RBAM) – our hotels give Radisson Blu Olympia Hotel in Tallinn (EstoWorld Childhood Foundation (Childhood) as extra focus to community activities. At Rezinia) where 82 countries came together to plan our corporate charity. The cooperation dates dor, 2011 marked the eighth anniversary of their national cleanups and share best practices. back to 2007 and engages our hotels each year RBAM, with 256 hotels (80% of total) particiThe Rezidor Hotel Group in fundraising for Childhood (see page 17). pating. RBAM is now a global initiative and is World Childhood Foundation is a non-profit run in coordination with Carlson Rezidor Rezidor’s Code of Business Conduct organisation dedicated to serving the most hotels in the Americas and the Asia-Pacific and Ethics in short: vulnerable children in the world: street chilregions. 1. We respect the law dren, sexually abused and exploited children, This year our hotels showed they are Hotels 2. We show respect for all persons in all children trafficked for sexual purposes and with a Heart with close to 460 projects. In situations institutionalised children, with a particular total 385 TEUR was raised for Childhood and 3. We think ethically focus on girls and young mothers. Our misvarious other projects. Many of our hotels 4. We act fairly sion is to provide its several million guests donate volunteer time to local charities during 5. We do not discriminate against anyone 15 each year with a comfortable and restful stay the year and especially in the Responsible for any reason Responsibility Report 2011 away from home. Childhood aims to help chilBusiness Action Month. This year employees 6. We are honest and transparent dren who are abused and exploited to ensure of 242 hotels contributed their time and skills. 7. We are loyal to our employer that they are given a safe and secure childAlthough the total in-kind value of volunteer 8. We do not exploit the company’s hood, or simply put, a home. These parallel time and goods donated is, it’s worth mentionresources aspirations mean that Rezidor’s support to ing that through the Box Appeal alone Rezidor 9. We think of safety at all times Childhood is natural to who we are as a comdonated 200 TEUR in-kind of goods. 10. We take care of the Earth pany and a corporate citizen. Let’s do it world: Global agreement with World Cleanup 2012 signed In November 2011, Carlson Rezidor Hotel Group and Carlson Restaurants announced their global partnership with World Cleanup 2012. World Cleanup is a global campaign Reacting to emergencies which aims to remove illegally dumped garEthical Responsibility As a hotel group with an important and growbage in 100 countries and raise people’s awareIn 2011 – as in 2010 – Rezidor was listed as one ing presence in the Middle East (29 hotels ness worldwide. of the world’s most ethical companies by the total), Rezidor reacted immediately to the World Cleanup 2012 will run from 24 Ethisphere Institute, a US think-tank dediUNHCR call to support displaced persons March to 25 September 2012. During this cated to business ethics. fleeing the violence in Libya. In June and July period, 1,300 Carlson Rezidor Hotels and 909 This is the fifth year Ethisphere has pub2011, donation boxes were placed in all hotels T.G.I. Friday’s restaurants will support and lished the World’s Most Ethical (WME) rankto raise much needed funds to benefit the help organise World Cleanup actions worldings. In 2011, 110 WME companies were iden800,000 displaced persons who fled Libya and wide. tified by a committee of leading attorneys, who were housed in UNHCR tent camps at Rezidor kicked off the global partnership professors, government officials and organisathe Egyptian and Tunisian borders. with World Cleanup during the European tion leaders. The methodology for the WME Week for Waste Reduction (19-27 November ranking covers seven distinct categories: Cor2011). Eighteen Radisson Blu and Park Inn by porate Citizenship and Responsibility; CorpoRadisson hotels launched cleanup activities in rate Governance; Innovation that Contributes 11 countries. to the Public Well Being; Industry LeaderPillar 2 Responsible Business Action Month, September 2011 Cyclists from the Radisson Royal hotel collected 8,500 60 female employees from our Paris hotels run Oslo hotels dance away for charity. EUR for the Downside-up Fund, a local charity. and raise money for Breast Cancer research. Radisson Blu Anchorage hotel Lagos, Nigeria raises Radisson Blu Bosphorus painting a local school. Park Inn Sofia cleans the forest behind the hotel. The Rezidor Hotel Group 900 EUR in a football match for charity. . At Rezidor, our corporate Code of Ethics is The ECPAT Code shared with all employees during their Yes I Child Abuse Free Zone: Suppliers of tourism services which adopt Can! trainings and in their WHY? informathe Radisson Blu Gothenburg the ECPAT code commit themselves to: tion booklets. In 2011, Rezidor complemented In 2010, the Radisson Blu Gothenburg 1. E stablish an ethical policy regarding the its Code of Ethics with the requirements and installed NetClean, a device which precommercial sexual exploitation of chilspecifications of the UK’s Bribery Act. vents users from accessing or distributing 16 dren. The second pillar of ethics in Rezidor is child pornography on the web. Whilst the 2. T rain their personnel in the country of rezidorethics.com, a website run by an indeanonymity of guests is 100% guaranteed, Responsibility Report 2011 origin and travel destinations. pendent third-party organisation – Ethics the device prevents and dissuades them 3. I ntroduce a clause in contracts with supPoint. Employees can use this site to find from accessing this type of material. A year pliers, stating a common repudiation of information on our code and report concerns after the devices were installed, the hotel the commercial sexual exploitation of anonymously. positively evaluated the device and decided children. In general, any employee with concerns or to continue its use. 4. Provide information about the commerquestions about the Code is encouraged to The Hotel’s policy has been widely cial sexual exploitation of children to raise these directly with their supervisor. If endorsed by Swedish politicians and media travellers. this is not possible, the employee can report personalities. 5. Provide information to local ‘key perthe issue on rezidorethics.com. The site and sons’ at the destinations. hotline are available in 11 languages. 6. R eport annually. Rezidor does not make any contributions or the ECPAT Code on preventing human and give other support, direct or indirect, to politchild trafficking. As part of the global Carlson ical parties or individual politicians. Rezidor Hotel Group, Rezidor fully endorses ship; Executive Leadership and Tone from the The Rezidor Hotel Group receives no direct the Code and applies its requirements and Top; Legal, Regulatory and Reputation Track nor significant financial subsidies from govguidelines in all of our 325 hotels. Hotels and Record; and Internal Systems and Ethics/ ernmental organisations in the countries hotel staff must be alert to potentially suspect Compliance Programme. The highest scores where we operate hotels. However it is worth situations and report them to their superiors for each industry became the 2011 World’s noting that 9 of our hotels received financial and to local relevant organisations. Most Ethical Companies. assistance for Responsible Business initiatives In 2011, an additional Child Protection Other companies on the list include Starin other forms in 2011, for example: Our Module was integrated into our Living bucks, Timberland, UPS and General ElecRadisson Blu Hotel in Karlsruhe, Germany, Responsible Business training. The module tric. For more information go to www.ethisreceived an 8 TEUR gas-tax refund for 2011 features an extract from the documentary phere.com plus a 12 TEUR government grant for their ‘Not My Life.’ Rezidor’s inclusion in the Ethisphere rankco-generation plant. All hotel trainers were trained in the moding shows that we strive to act according to ule. To date, 85% of our hotels have delivered the highest ethical principles and make sure Protecting the World’s Children the specific training module to their staff. that all our 35,000 employees do so – wherever Rezidor’s majority shareholder Carlson was Back-of-house communication materials conthey are. the first hospitality group in the world to sign stantly remind staff to be alert to this issue. Pillar 2 Make Room in Your Heart for Kids The Rezidor Hotel Group When we think of holding or playing with a child, we get a warm and fuzzy feeling. Nothing compares to gazing into the eyes of a newborn, or feeling the squirms of a toddler wanting to get out of your arms and begin to explore the world. But parenthood is not always idyllic and filled The project focuses on vulnerable girls who 17 “Rezidor is an invaluable partwith memorable moments. It can be especially often leave their families because of brutal Responsibility Report 2011 ner when working with famidifficult if you are struggling with emotional, treatment at home – an environment in which social and economic poverty, or if the home is they should be safe. When The Way Home lies and children in small and filled with abuse and violence. In these famistarted in 2007, 25% of all street children were lies it can be difficult to enjoy the beginning of girls. By 2011, the number had decreased to large communities alike. a new life. 8% and there were fewer unwanted pregnanThe World Childhood Foundation (Childcies. With help from The Way Home, many Together, we can make a big hood) is focused on helping parents give chilchildren can now safely return home. difference in many children’s dren a good start in life. Our goal is to ensure It is projects like these that lie at the heart a happy childhood for each child and we seek of Childhood. We promote prevention, interlives. ” out organisations that work to make this hapvention and education efforts, while working pen. closely with each project we support. The In Warsaw, Poland, the organisation partnership with a company like Rezidor, Nobody’s Child developed a model to support which has a strong commitment to the comCharlotte Brandin, vulnerable families with children under three munities in which it operates, is vital for Director Childhood USA years of age. Young families are guided and Childhood and helps us to take initiatives assisted with comprehensive support to better which enable parents to succeed, or aid vulequip them for their life as parents. Nobody’s nerable children get off the streets. Child also trains social workers and other proRezidor is an invaluable partner when workfessionals who lack appropriate skills. ing with families and children in small and Another organisation that Childhood suplarge communities alike. Together, we can ports is The Way Home. This organisation make a big difference in many children’s lives. prevents neglect, abuse and homelessness You can read more about these and other among street children in Odessa, Ukraine. Childhood projects at www.childhood.org/eng. By Pillar 3 Top Environmental Performance The Rezidor Hotel Group The Radisson Blu Hotel at East Midlands Airport, opened in October 2011, has achieved the highest ever BREEAM score for a hotel. The Building Research Association EnvironTogether, these innovative technologies “As a hotel owner, achieving mental Assessment Method (BREEAM) is the deliver an 87% reduction in CO2 and supply 18 BREEAM shows our guests leading system to assess a building’s environup to 90% of the consumed energy using mental performance. The Radisson Blu Hotel renewable sources. Responsibility Report 2011 that integrating the best at East Midlands Airport has been awarded a The building also incorporates a number of BREEAM score of 76.17% – well above the sustainable construction techniques to deliver environmental technology BREEAM Excellent benchmark of 70%. a BREEAM Excellent facility. These include a Built by MAG Developments, the largest sustainable surface-water drainage system that makes sense for the planet British-owned air operator, in partnership utilises techniques such as porous paving in and for business.” with the specialist hotel investment firm the car park, attenuation tanks, and a rainwaAzure Property Group, the hotel features 218 ter harvesting system. The grey water from guest rooms and nine executive suites. It also the hotel is also collected and recycled to flush contains the 4-star HALSA health club. the hotel’s toilets. Bahram Sadr–Hashemi, The hotel uses a range of low energy tech“As an owner, it is key to show our guests nologies to reduce the overall energy demand that integrating the best environmental techManaging Director of Azure of the building. In addition, energy is genernology makes sense for the planet and for Properties UK Limited ated on-site via a combined heat and power business,” says Bahram Sadr–Hashemi, Man(CHP) engine with a pure plant-oil (PPO) triaging Director of Azure Properties UK Limgeneration energy centre which runs for 8,000 ited. hours per year using recycled waste oil from “This approach aligns perfectly with Rezithe food production industry. The fuel is dor’s Responsible Business programme which transported to the site in vehicles which run strives to minimise our impact on the envion the same fuel. ronment,” adds Daniel Keane, General ManThe system is designed to export electricity ager of the Radisson Blu Hotel East Midlands to the national grid outside of normal occuAirport. pancy hours. Waste energy from the CHP is also recycled and re-circulated back into the system so no energy is lost. Pillar 3 Pillar 3: Reducing our impact on the environment As one of the fastest growing hotel groups in the world, Rezidor focuses on minimising our environmental footprint in all stages of a hotel lifecycle: from building or renovating, to operating a hotel. Responsible Renovation and Construction In close cooperation with the property ownEnergy Guidelines ers, Rezidor proudly opened two environmenRezidor continuously strives to reduce the When building a new hotel or renovating an tal flagship hotels in 2011: the Radisson Blu energy consumption of our properties by existing property, it is important that attention hotel East Midlands Airport (UK) and the installing energy efficient lighting, motion is paid to resource efficiency and creating a Radisson Blu Waterfront Hotel and Confersensors, and heating, ventilation and air-conbuilding with the minimum possible carbon ence Centre Stockholm (Sweden) – see pages ditioning (HVAC) controls in existing hotels. The Rezidor Hotel Group footprint. At Rezidor, this is done in close 18 and 20. Both buildings received internaThese efforts are combined with strict envicooperation with property owners, builders tional recognition for their exceptional environmental guidelines for new-builds and major and architects. ronmental performance. renovations. For all newly built hotels and major renovaDuring 2011 Rezidor achieved: tions, Rezidor applies its Responsible RenovaMinimising our Environmental Footprint • 100% LED signage for new hotels and major tion and Construction guidelines. These in Operations renovations. Having 100% LED signage on guidelines cover all relevant areas of the conRezidor hotels have operational procedures in our hotel buildings became mandatory in struction site and the building itself such as: place to reduce the consumption of energy and 2009 for Radisson Blu and in 2010 for Park • Use of sustainable and renewable energy water and the generation of waste in our busiInn by Radisson. 19 sources ness every day. Investments in environmen• 94% of our hotel rooms are equipped with Responsibility Report 2011 • I mproved thermal insulation of the facade to tally friendly technology are also made. The energy efficient lighting. minimise heat loss and gain process of awarding a property an eco-label or • 69% of public spaces in the hotels have • Heat recovery systems renewing an eco-label also leads to significant energy efficient lighting. • Rainwater recovery systems environmental investments in the hotel. For • Building management systems which create example, the Radisson Blu Astrid (Belgium) In 2011, Rezidor managed to maintain its an intelligent buildings invested 21 TEUR in energy efficient lighting energy performance despite increased occu• Effective waste and recycling management. and aerators in order to achieve the Green Key pancy (the total number of guest nights, GN, label in 2011. were up 7% compared to 2010). Although Energy/m 2 , kWh Water/guest night, litres Waste/guest night, kg 400 500 2.0 400 300 1.5 300 200 1.0 200 100 0.5 100 0 0 0 08 09 10 11 08 09 10 11 08 09 10 11 08 09 10 11 08 09 10 11 08 09 10 11 Radisson Blu Park Inn by Radisson Radisson Blu Park Inn by Radisson Radisson Blu Park Inn by Radisson Note: data from managed and leased hotels (246 hotels) By Pillar 3 Greener than Green at the Waterfront The The Rezidor Rezidor Hotel Hotel Group Group The Stockholm Waterfront Hotel and Congress Centre is an architectural masterpiece, the exterior of which is dominated by steel, glass and several types of specially formulated concrete. The inside is no less complex. Walls, ceilings and even our stage can be A control system for the electricity and venti“The energy performance of moved, sectioned-off or raised. Apart from the lation systems has also been developed. Each 20 this building is phenomenal. modularised floor space, state-of-the-art lightfloor of the building can individually be shuting, communications and audio-visual soludown outside normal office hours. However, it Responsibility Responsibility Report Report 2011 2011 An ordinary house uses about tions are built into the facility. remains on standby for full operation when The building also has a highly specialised needed. 139 kilowatt hours of energy energy system which is modelled on the comThe world-class energy solution was plex but highly effective solutions found in the designed to cut CO2 emissions and minimise per square metre per year. process industry. All heating and cooling is the hotel’s impact on the environment and cliWe consume 30% less.” controlled by advanced data systems which are mate change. It has ensured that the Stockset to calculate how much energy is needed by holm Waterfront Congress Centre is one of the facility in the coming hours. the most energy efficient buildings in the The glass facade is comprised of 1,040 m2 world. Anders Edblad, of solar collectors which gather an average of As the Chief Engineer, Anders Edblad says: 1 MW of heat energy daily. This is equivalent “An ordinary house uses about 139 kilowatt Chief Engineer Radisson to 90,000 low energy bulbs. hours of energy per square metre per year. We Blu Waterfront Hotel Heating and cooling is distributed through consume 30% less.” a concordant system. Surplus heat is distribThe hotel opened its doors on 20 January and Conference Centre uted between the different buildings to make2011 a Swan eco-labeled hotel and conference up for shortfalls. The building is cooled by centre. The Swan is the official Nordic ecowater which is drawn from the lake and stored label and it is a supplement to the environmenin 250 tonnes of ice tanks in the basement. tal work of our Responsible Business ProWhen the temperature of the lake is too low, gramme. the system is supported by the district heating system which utilises renewable energy sources. Pillar 3 energy/m2 increased by 2% for Radisson and In the area of waste (both residual and recyITP and WTTC Working Group by 0.5% for Park Inn by Radisson, our overall cled) Rezidor receives reliable data from 167 on Carbon energy consumption/GN is down from 73.67 hotels. Residual waste, expressed in kg/GN, The ITP and WTTC, together with all major to 70.74 kWh/GN, a decrease of 4%. In total, stayed stable for Radisson Blu whereas Park hospitality companies, are collaborating on a 19% of Rezidor hotels use renewable energy to Inn by Radisson hotels continued to reduce groundbreaking initiative to standardise the varying degrees. the total per guest night by an outstanding hotel industry’s efforts to calculate and comHowever, Rezidor believes that our con21%. municate their carbon impact. The goal is to sumption figures per square metre and per agree a standard methodology and metrics occupied room should be reduced further in Carbon Emissions which are informed by the GHG Protocol absolute terms. Rezidor’s recently launched Rezidor’s greenhouse gas emissions primarily standards. Think Planet! initiative will focus on reducing result from energy consumption and mainly This is the first time the leaders within the energy consumption by 25% over the next five consist of carbon dioxide emissions. Since hotel industry have collaborated to agree a years. 2006, our carbon emissions have been calcusingle methodology to measure and communilated by the Edinburgh Centre for Carbon cate emissions data. Rezidor is an active memWater Management (now CAMCO). The assessment ber of the working group and participates in Inadequate access to safe drinking water is a focuses on energy related emissions only and the pilot tests. The final methodology will be major problem across many of the regions in contains both scope 1 and 2 emissions. launched during the Rio+20 Earth Summit in which Rezidor operates. Reducing water conIn 2011, emissions from electricity, natural June 2012. sumption in our hotels – without compromisgas, heating oil, district heating and LPG gas ing service quality for guests – is a key priority for the 232 managed and leased hotels for Eco-labels for Rezidor. which Rezidor has comprehensive data External confirmation of our hotels’ environAt the end of 2011: amounted to 412 138 of CO2-equivalent. Our mental performance is essential to Rezidor. The Rezidor Hotel Group •7 8% of guestrooms have dual flush toilets. carbon footprint has increased less than 1% in Eco-labels provide an independent third-party •8 5% of guestrooms have aerators to control absolute terms, however, this is due to the tap and shower water flows. number of hotels which were added to our •6 % of hotels recycle grey water. portfolio in 2011. Our footprint in CO2Carbon Neutral Hotels a Reality equivalent per guest night decreased by 6% in Arlanda, Sweden In 2011, water consumption in litres/GN was from 26.29 to 24.78 kg CO2e/guest night. Since 2011, the Radisson Blu Arlandia reduced by 2% for Radisson Blu and by an Hotel and the Radisson Blu Skycity impressive 8% for Park Inn by Radisson. This Environmental compliance Hotel – both in Arlanda, Sweden – have is due to a combined increase in total guest Rezidor checks for environmental compliance been fully carbon neutral. Along with a constant drive to reduce resource con21 nights and our continuous programmes to with all its 325 hotels. One hotels reported a increase water awareness in our hotels. Our minor issue with the concentration of chemisumption and their gross carbon footprint, Responsibility Report 2011 programmes involve guests in towel and sheet cals in discharged wastewater (Radisson Blu the hotels compensate for the CO2 they replacement programmes, and we have an Kiev). The hotel paid a small fine and the issue produce by investing in wind farms in ongoing maintenance programme to complete has been solved. India and Turkey. the installation of water saving devices such as aerators and sensor taps. Waste Solid waste is generated by many activities in our hotels including food preparation, consumption of pre-packaged items, guest waste, and cleaning among others. Rezidor proactively seeks to reduce recycle waste as much as possible and to reduce the residual waste which goes to landfill or incineration. In the Living Responsible Business training, all Rezidor employees are trained on techniques to minimise waste and on the waste hierarchy: Reduce, Reuse, Recycle. By the end of 2011: •9 1% of our hotels have a dedicated waste sorting area. •7 5% of hotels have waste sorting facilities on housekeeping trolleys. • 89% of our total waste is recycled. Park Inn by Radisson Malmö displays it’s Nordic Swan eco-label credentials. Pillar 3 audit of each hotel’s practices and actions to All suppliers are required to sign the Supplier not just our bottom-line, but the triple bottom protect the environment. Our target is to have Code of Conduct and have the opportunity to line of environmental, social and economic 100% of our hotels eco-labelled by 2015. further profile their Responsible Business perperformance. At the end of 2011, a total of 179 Rezidor formance in RezPIN, Rezidor’s central purRezidor has also participated in the Sustainhotels (or 55%) across EMEA have received chasing platform. able Value Creation project which analysed eco-labels. A complete list of our eco-labelled Local suppliers are also required to sign the the Responsible Business strategy and prachotels can be found at the end of this report Supplier Code of Conduct and 57% of our tices of the 100 largest companies listed on the (see page 25). hotels actively check on their responsible busiNASDAQ OMX. Sustainable Value Creation All Rezidor hotels are 100% certified in the ness performance. 61% of our hotels also is a collaborative project initiated in 2009 by Baltic countries; Finland; France; the Middle return packaging to suppliers. 14 of Sweden’s largest institutional investors. East (Kuwait, Oman, Saudi Arabia, UAE and The comparative report shows Rezidor scores Turkey); and the Netherlands. All of our manSocially Responsible Investors better than average in addressing sustainabilaged and leased hotels in the Nordic countries Since 2010 Rezidor has been listed on the ity issues in a structured way. (Denmark, Sweden, and Norway) are Nordic OMX GES Sustainability Nordic Index and Swan certified . the OMX GES Sustainability Sweden Index. The Nordic Sustainability Index highlights Working with Suppliers the 50 best-rated companies on the Nordic Rezidor works closely with our global suppliexchanges, while the Sweden Index comprises ers to set strict environmental performance the 30 best-rated companies on the Stockholm criteria and minimise the social and environexchange. The indexes identify the leading mental impacts of the products and services companies in terms of sustainability and Reziwe purchase. dor is proud to be recognised for monitoring The Rezidor Hotel Group 22 Responsibility Report 2011 By Pillar 3 Pillar 3 The Rezidor Hotel Group Partners in Sustainability: Rezidor and Diversey Rezidor has contracted industry leader Diversey to provide housekeeping, laundry and kitchen solutions that deliver 23 superior cleaning results with minimal impact on the environment and improved profitability for the hotels. Responsibility Report 2011 The objective has been to save water, lower environmental packaging calculator. The calenergy consumption and reduce labour costs culator quantifies the environmental benefits while making the properties safer, cleaner and achieved from Diversey’s innovative packagmore hygienic. ing, dispensing and dosing expertise, and Innovations introduced by Diversey at product formulations that require less water Rezidor include: and energy use. • The innovative, wall-mounted Revoflow® In an analysis of Rezidor’s UK business dispensing system for dishwashing. (40 Radisson Blu and Park Inn by Radisson • Divermite™ systems for housekeeping hotels), Rezidor’s environmental impact was departments, which has reduced plastic reduced by: waste per litre of solution by as much as • 41% in terms of total packaging waste. 97% compared to conventional, ready-to• 61% in terms of greenhouse gas emissions use packaging. related to materials and shipping. • SoftCare® soap in hotel washrooms that delivers superior hand-washing results Several other initiatives are in the pipeline to with less waste than conventional products. further reduce enable Rezidor to achieve its goal of a minimal environmental footprint. More recently, Diversey delivered another innovation in operational and environmental management for Rezidor’s hotels: the new By Title 3 Pillar Opening Doors with Green Key The Rezidor Hotel Group Green Key is an eco-label for tourism facilities that promotes sustainable tourism. Green Key also aims to contribute to the prevention of climate change by recognising and advocating facilities with positive environmental initiatives. The eco-label was first launched in Denmark guests and staff; and the use of eco-certified “The partnership with Rezidor in 1994. In 2002 it was adopted by the Foundacleaning products. The list of achievements is 24 is a wonderful opportunity tion for Environmental Education as its fifth long! international programme. Green Key is issued as a complementary Responsibility Report 2011 to introduce the Green Key Green Key is currently the largest global tool to Rezidor’s Responsible Business proeco-label for tourist accommodation. Over gramme. It represents a great opportunity to on an even larger scale inter1,500 establishments in 28 countries worldbring added value to actions and initiatives wide have received the label. taken by the Group’s Responsible Business nationally.” “The partnership between Green Key and champion, Chief Engineer and team. The Rezidor Hotel Group began in 2010 and was Green Key certification is a unique way to the first with an international hotel chain,” reward all the efforts made and to clearly Nicolas Dubrocard, explains Nicolas Dubrocard. “From our perprove to staff and guests that they are part of spective it was a real challenge and a wonderthe sustainability commitments promoted by Green Key International ful opportunity to introduce Green Key on a the Rezidor Hotel Group. larger scale. It was also a great way to encourBased on our excellent international partCoordinator age the launch of Green Key in countries such nership with Rezidor, we intend to introduce as Bahrain, Germany, Kuwait, Oman, Saudi Green Key into new areas such as Bulgaria, Arabia, Turkey and the UAE.” the Czech Republic, Egypt, and Georgia, It is fantastic to see the measurable positive among others. Green Key is proud to help effects the Green Key label has on the hotel’s Rezidor hotels achieve the company’s goal of environmental performance. There is a having all hotels certified by the end of 2015. decrease in water consumption, the inventive To date 75 hotels have been Green Key initiatives to reuse water from air conditioning certified. A total of 179 hotels have at least to water gardens; staff involvement; green one eco-label. For a full list of Rezidor’s ecoactivities; increased communication between labelled hotels, see page 25. For more information, go to: www.green–key.org Environmental certifications Austrian Eco-label (3) Lithuania Hungarian Green Hotel Award (2) Park Inn by Radisson Uno City, Vienna Park Inn by Radisson Kaunas Park Inn Sarvar Radisson Blu Hotel & Conference Centre, Salzburg Park Inn by Radisson Klaipeda Radisson Blu Béke Hotel, Budapest Radisson Blu Palais Hotel, Vienna Park Inn by Radisson Vilnius North Radisson Blu Astorija Hotel, Vilnius ISO 14001 (19) BREEAM (1) Radisson Blu Hotel Lietuva, Vilnius Germany Radisson Blu Hotel, East Midlands Airport UK Radisson Blu Hotel, Klaipeda Radisson Blu Gewandhaus Hotel, Dresden Radisson Blu Hotel, Berlin Golden Leaf (1) Netherlands Radisson Blu Hotel, Cologne Radisson Blu Hotel, Beijing China Radisson Blu Hotel, Amsterdam Radisson Blu Hotel, Frankfurt Radisson Blu Hotel, Amsterdam Airport, Schiphol Radisson Blu Hotel, Hamburg Green Globe (1) Radisson Blu Hotel, Hamburg Airport Radisson Blu Resort, El Quseir Oman Radisson Blu Hotel, Hannover Park Inn by Radisson Muscat Radisson Blu Hotel, Karlsruhe Green Hospitality Award, Ireland (12) Radisson Blu Hotel, Muscat Radisson Blu Hotel, Neubrandenburg Radisson Blu Hotel, Dublin Airport – Platinum Radisson Blu Hotel, Rostock Radisson Blu Farnham Estate Hotel, Cavan – Gold Poland Radisson Blu Media Harbour Hotel, Düsseldorf Radisson Blu Hotel & Spa, Cork – Gold Radisson Blu Centrum Hotel, Warsaw Radisson Blu Resort Schloss Fleesensee Radisson Blu Hotel & Spa, Galway – Gold Radisson Blu Hotel, Gdansk Radisson Blu Resort, Rügen Radisson Blu Royal Hotel, Dublin – Gold Radisson Blu Hotel, Krakow Radisson Blu Scandinavia Hotel, Düsseldorf Radisson Blu St. Helen’s Hotel, Dublin – Gold Radisson Blu Hotel, Szczecin Radisson Blu Schwarzer Bock Hotel, Wiesbaden Radisson Blu Hotel & Spa, Sligo – Silver Radisson Blu Hotel, Wroclaw Radisson Blu Hotel, Cork Airport – Silver Switzerland Radisson Blu Hotel, Letterkenny – Silver Russia Radisson Blu Hotel, Basel The Rezidor Hotel Group Radisson Blu Hotel, Limerick – Silver Park Inn by Radisson Nevsky, St. Petersburg Radisson Blu Hotel, Lucerne Park Inn by Radisson Shannon Airport – Member Park Inn by Radisson Pribalitiskaya, St. Petersburg Radisson Blu Hotel, St. Gallen Radisson Blu Hotel, Athlone – Member Park Inn by Radisson Pulkovskaya, St. Petersburg Radisson Blu Hotel, Zurich Airport Radisson Hotel, Kaliningrad Green Key (75) Radisson Royal Hotel, St. Petersburg Maltese Eco-label (1) Bahrain Radisson Sonya Hotel, St. Petersburg Radisson Blu Bay Point Resort, St. Julian’s The Diplomat Radisson Blu Hotel Residence & Spa, Manama Saudi Arabia Nordic Swan Eco-label (38) Al Muna Kareem Radisson Blu Hotel, Al Madinah Denmark Belgium Park Inn by Radisson Al Khobar Radisson Blu Falconer Hotel & Conference Centre, Park Inn by Radisson Liege Airport Radisson Blu Hotel, Jeddah Copenhagen Radisson Blu Astrid Hotel, Antwerp Radisson Blu Hotel, Riyadh Radisson Blu H.C. Andersen Hotel, Odense Radisson Blu Royal Hotel, Copenhagen Radisson Blu EU Hotel, Brussels Radisson Blu Hotel, Hasselt Radisson Blu Hotel, Yanbu Radisson Blu Royal Suite Hotel, Jeddah Radisson Blu Scandinavia Hotel, Aarhus 25 Radisson Blu Park Lane Hotel, Antwerp Radisson Blu Scandinavia Hotel, Copenhagen Responsibility Report 2011 Radisson Blu Royal Hotel, Brussels Ukraine Radisson Blu Hotel, Kiev Finland Estonia Radisson Blu Hotel, Espoo Park Inn by Radisson Central Tallinn United Arab Emirates Radisson Blu Hotel, Oulu Radisson Blu Hotel Olumpia, Tallinn Park Inn by Radisson Abu Dhabi, Yas Island Radisson Blu Marina Palace Hotel, Turku Radisson Blu Hotel, Tallinn Radisson Blu Hotel, Abu Dhabi Yas Island Radisson Blu Plaza Hotel, Helsinki Radisson Blu Hotel, Dubai Deira Creek Radisson Blu Royal Hotel, Helsinki France Radisson Blu Hotel, Dubai Downtown Radisson Blu Royal Hotel, Vaasa Park Inn by Radisson Arcachon Radisson Blu Hotel, Dubai Media City Radisson Blu Seaside Hotel, Helsinki Park Inn by Radisson Lyon-Ouest Radisson Blu Resort, Fujairah Park Inn by Radisson Macon Radisson Blu Resort, Sharjah Norway Park Inn by Radisson Nancy Radisson Royal Hotel, Dubai Radisson Blu Airport Hotel, Oslo Park Inn by Radisson Nice Airport The Radisson Blu Residence, Dubai Marina Radisson Blu Atlantic Hotel, Stavanger Park Inn by Radisson Orange Radisson Blu Caledonien Hotel, Kristiansand Park Inn by Radisson Paris Charles De Gaulle Airport Green Leaf (1) Radisson Blu Hotel Norge, Bergen Radisson Blu 1835 Hotel & Thalasso, Cannes Radisson Blu Hotel, Sandton Johannesburg South–Africa Radisson Blu Hotel Nydalen, Oslo Radisson Blu Ambassador Hotel, Paris Opéra Radisson Blu Hotel, Ålesund Radisson Blu Hotel at Disneyland® Resort Paris The Green Tourism Business Scheme, UK (24) Radisson Blu Hotel, Bodø Radisson Blu Hotel, Aix-Les-Bains Hotel Missoni Edinburgh – Gold Radisson Blu Hotel, Tromsø Radisson Blu Hotel, Biarritz Park Inn by Radisson Manchester, Victoria – Gold Radisson Blu Hotel, Trondheim Airport Radisson Blu Hotel, Champs Elysees, Paris Park Inn Heathrow, London – Gold Radisson Blu Plaza Hotel, Oslo Radisson Blu Hotel, Lyon Radisson Blu Hotel London Stansted Airport – Gold Radisson Blu Polar Hotel, Spitsbergen Radisson Blu Hotel, Marseille Vieux Port Radisson Blu Hotel, Edinburgh – Gold Radisson Blu Royal Garden Hotel, Trondheim Radisson Blu Hotel, Nice Radisson Blu Hotel, Glasgow – Gold Radisson Blu Royal Hotel, Stavanger Radisson Blu Hotel, Paris Charles de Gaulle Airport Radisson Blu Portman Hotel, London – Gold Radisson Blu Scandinavia Hotel, Oslo Radisson Blu Hotel, Paris-Boulogne Radisson Blu Waterfront Hotel, Jersey – Gold Radisson Blu Hotel, Toulouse Airport Park Inn by Radisson Belfast – Silver Sweden Radisson Blu Le Dokhan’s Hotel, Paris Trocadero Park Inn by Radisson Birmingham West – Silver Park Inn by Radisson Malmö Radisson Blu Le Metropolitan Hotel, Paris Eiffel Park Inn by Radisson Northampton – Silver Park Inn by Radisson Solna Radisson Blu Resort, Arc 1950 Park Inn by Radisson Palace, Southend-on-Sea – Silver Park Inn by Radisson Stockholm Hammarby Sjöstad Les Loges du Parc, Aix-Les-Bains Park Inn by Radisson Peterborough – Silver Park Inn by Radisson Stockholm-Arlanda Park Inn by Radisson Telford – Silver Radisson Blu Arlandia Hotel, Stockholm-Arlanda Kuwait Park Inn Watford – Silver Radisson Blu Hotel, Malmö Hotel Missoni Kuwait Radisson Blu Hotel Manchester Airport – Silver Radisson Blu Royal Park Hotel, Stockholm Radisson Blu Hotel, Belfast – Silver Radisson Blu Royal Viking Hotel, Stockholm Latvia Radisson Blu Hotel, Bristol – Silver Radisson Blu Scandinavia Hotel, Göteborg Radisson Blu Daugava Hotel, Riga Radisson Blu Hotel, Durham – Silver Radisson Blu SkyCity Hotel, Stockholm-Arlanda Radisson Blu Elizabete Hotel, Riga Radisson Blu Hotel, Leeds – Silver Radisson Blu Strand Hotel, Stockholm Radisson Blu Hotel Latvija, Riga Park Inn by Radisson Bedford – Bronze Radisson Blu Waterfront Hotel, Stockholm Radisson Blu Ridzene Hotel, Riga Park Inn by Radisson Birmingham Walsall – Bronze Park Inn by Radisson Harlow – Bronze Tunesian Eco-label (1) Radisson Blu Hotel, Birmingham – Bronze Radisson Blu Resort & Thalasso, Djerba Summary of progress Responsible Business Indicators 2011 Target 2011 Result EMPLOYEES We educate and facilitate our employees to make a conscious decision in favour of environmental, ethical and social issues in their private and work lives. Percentage of hotels that comply with local labour laws (working hours, freedom of association, equal, opportunities and nondiscrimination) 100% 100% a Employee satisfaction: Climate Analysis score 85% 86.7% a Percentage of hotels that have made information on rezidorethics.com available to employees 95% 97% a CUSTOMERS We inform and make it easy for our guests to participate in the Responsible Business related activities at our hotels. We provide a healthy environment and offer healthy, nutritious, organic and fair trade food and beverages. Third party eco-labels (% of all Rezidor hotels) 50% 55% a Responsible Business page on hotel website (% of all Rezidor hotels) 70% 76% a The Rezidor Hotel Group Provide refillable amenity dispensers in public washrooms (% of all Rezidor hotels) 95% 92% Battery collection boxes available for guests (% of all Rezidor hotels) 80% 82% a Facilities for waste sorting by guests (% of all Rezidor hotels) 40% 39% Percentage of hotel rooms that are non-smoking 80% 85% a 26 Percentage of non-smoking hotels (guest rooms and public spaces) 45% 48% a Responsibility Report 2011 PROPERTY OWNERS We work together with property owners to find innovative solutions that satisfy our economic, environmental and social objectives. Number of hotel owners informed about the Responsible Business programme and hotel activities 90% 94% a SHAREHOLDERS We provide shareholders and investors with timely, accurate and transparent information on Responsible Business related risks and opportunities. Percentage of hotels that report monthly and annually to corporate office: 100% 94% Managed and leased hotels (% of total managed and leased hotels) Monthly Environmental Reporting and the annual Status Report questionnaire Franchised hotels (% of total number of franchisees) Annual Status Report questionnaire 75% 79% a SUPPLIERS We purchase products that have a reduced environmental impact during their life-cycle, from suppliers that demonstrate environmental and social responsibility. Percentage of hotels sharing Rezidor Supplier Code of Conduct with their suppliers 75% 75% a Percentage of hotels which request or provide advice on how suppliers can improve their environmental, social or ethical 50% 38% performance Serve organic certified food items (% of all Rezidor hotels) 60% 49% Serve Fair Trade certified products 60% 52% AUTHORITIES We require our managers to abide by local and international legislation, especially regarding labour laws, health and safety, human rights and the environment. Zero breaches to Responsible Business-related legislation 0 breaches 0 breaches a Percentage of hotels performing Responsible Business legal self-audit (% of all Rezidor hotels – where available) 100% 97% Summary of Progress Responsible Business Indicators 2011 Target 2011 Result COMMUNITY We take an active role in the international Responsible Business community, and contribute to the local communities where we operate. Amount of money raised for corporate and local charities • World Childhood Foundation (in €) • Local charities (in €) 75,000 300,000 60,000 315,000 a Number of hotels participating in Responsible Business Action Month in September 2011 200 256 a ENVIRONMENT We continuously strive to improve our performance in the areas of energy, water, chemical and resource consumption, and waste generation in order to reduce our impact on the environment without sacrificing the comfort or experience of our guests. 2 Energy reduction (kWh/m ) • Radisson Blu –2% +2% Radisson Blu • Park Inn by Radisson +0.5% for Park Inn The Rezidor Hotel Group CO2 equivalent emissions/guest night (GN) –5% 6% Water usage (litres/GN) • Radisson Blu • Park Inn by Radisson –2% –2% Radisson Blu –8% for Park Inn a a Residual waste to landfill or incineration (kg/GN) • Radisson Blu • Park Inn by Radisson –2% 0% Radisson Blu –21% for Park Inn a 27 Responsibility Report 2011 GRI Standard Disclosures Table AR = Rezidor Annual Report 2011 RBR = Rezidor Responsible Business Report 2011 INDICATOR ACCORDING TO GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE (G3) Page Number Profile 1. Strategy and Analysis 1.1 Statement from the CEO. RBR 1 1.2 Description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities. RBR 3 2. Organisational Profile 2.1 Name of the organisation. RBR 2 2.2 Primary brands, products, and/or services. RBR 2 2.3 Operational structure of the organisation, including main divisions, operating companies, subsidiaries, and joint ventures. RBR 2 AR 5–7 2.4 Location of organisation’s headquarters. RBR back cover 2.5 Number of countries where the organisation operates, and names of countries with major operations. AR 7 The Rezidor Hotel Group 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form. AR 74 2.7 Markets served. RBR 2 2.8 Scale of the reporting organisation. RBR 2 AR 5–7 2.9 Significant changes during the reporting period regarding size, structure, or ownership including: AR 10–13 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period. RBR 1, 15, 16 3. Report Parameters 28 Report Profile Responsibility Report 2011 3.1 Reporting period. RBR inside 3.2 Date of most recent previous report. Front cover 3.3 Reporting cycle. 3.4 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents. RBR back cover Report Scope and Boundary 3.5 Process for defining report content, including: • Determining materiality RBR 3–4 • Prioritising topics within the report; and • Identifying stakeholders the organisation expects to use the report. 3.6 Boundary of the report. RBR inside, front cover and 3.7 State any specific limitations on the scope or boundary of the report. pg. 31 3.8 Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, leased facilities, outsourced operations, and other entities that can significantly affect AR 7–9 comparability from period to period and/or between organisations. 3.10 Explanation of the effect of any re-statements of information provided in earlier reports. N/A 3.11 Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the scope, boundary, or measurement methods applied in the report. AR 10–13 3.12 Table identifying the location of the Standard Disclosures in the report. RBR 28–29 4. Governance, Commitments, and Engagement Governance 4.1 Governance structure of the organisation, including committees under the highest governance body responsible for specific tasks, such as AR 65–69 setting strategy or organisational oversight. 4.2 Indicate whether the Chair of the highest governance body is also an executive officer. AR 65–69 4.3 For organisations that have a unitary board structure, state the number of members of the highest governance body that are independent AR 65–69 and/or non–executive members. GRI Standard Disclosures Table INDICATOR ACCORDING TO GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE (G3) Page Number Stakeholder Engagement 4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organisation. RBR 4 4.15 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage. RBR 4 5 Performance Indicators Economic Aspect: Economic Performance EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed, including revenues, operating costs, employee compensation, donations and other AR 9-13 community investments, retained earnings, and payments to capital providers and governments. RBR 15 EC2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the organisation’s activities due to climate change. RBR 3 EC4 Significant financial assistance received from government. RBR 16 Aspect: Indirect Economic Impacts The Rezidor Hotel Group EC8 Development and impact of infrastructure investments and services provided primarily for public benefit through commercial, in-kind, RBR 15 or pro bono engagement. Aspect: Energy EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary energy source. RBR 19 EN5 Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency improvements. RBR 19–21 EN6 Initiatives to provide energy–efficient or renewable energy based products and services, and reductions in energy requirements as a result RBR 19 of these initiatives. Aspect: Emissions, Effluents, and Waste 29 EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and reductions achieved. RBR 21 Responsibility Report 2011 Aspect: Employment Aspect: Training and Education LA11 Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that support the continued employability of employees and assist them in managing RBR 12–13 career endings. LA12 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews. RBR 12 Human Rights Performance Indicators Aspect: Investment and Procurement Practices HR2 Percentage of significant suppliers and contractors that have undergone screening on human rights and actions taken. RBR 22 HR3 Total hours of employee training on policies and procedures concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations, including RBR 16 the percentage of employees trained. Society Performance Indicators Aspect: Corruption SO3 Percentage of employees trained in organization’s anti–corruption policies and procedures. RBR 15 SO4 Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption. RBR 16 Aspect : Public Policy SO5 Public policy positions and participation in public policy development and lobbying. RBR 15 SO6 Total value of financial and in–kind contributions to political parties, politicians, and related institutions by country. RBR 15 Aspect: Compliance SO8 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non–monetary sanctions for noncompliance with laws and regulations. RBR 15 and 21 Product Responsibility Performance Indicators Aspect : Product and Service Labeling PR5 Practices related to customer satisfaction, including results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction. RBR 7 Global Compact Compliance Human Rights Rezidor Systems and Processes Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of • Code of Business Conduct and Ethics internationally proclaimed human rights. • Living & Leading Responsible Business training • Employee Handbook • Supplier Code of Conduct Principle 2: Businesses should make sure that they are not complicit in • Code of Business Conduct and Ethics human rights abuses. • My Rights @ Rezidor • www.rezidorethics.com • Policy on the Facilitation of Prostitution • Supplier Code of Conduct Labour Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the • Human Resources Guidelines effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. • Employee Handbook The Rezidor Hotel Group • European Workers Councils • Supplier Code of Conduct Principle 4: Businesses should support the elimination of all forms of forced • Code of Business Conduct and Ethics and compulsory labour. • Supplier Code of Conduct Principle 5: Businesses should support the effective abolition of child labour. • Code of Business Conduct and Ethics • ECPAT Code of Conduct • Supplier Code of Conduct Principle 6: Businesses should support the elimination of discrimination in • Human Resources Guidelines 30 respect to employment and occupation. • Employee Handbook • Living & Leading Responsible Business training Responsibility Report 2011 • Policy on Recruitment and Selection • Transfer Policy • Policy on Sexual Harassment and Illicit Activities • Social Networking Policy • Supplier Code of Conduct Environment Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to envi• Responsible Business Policy ronmental challenges. • Responsible Construction and Renovation Guidelines Principle 8: Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater • Global Compact Caring for Climate environmental responsibility. • Responsible Business Policy • Responsible Construction and Renovation Guidelines • Living & Leading Responsible Business training • Rezidor List of Restricted Substances • Supplier Code of Conduct Principle 9: Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of • Responsible Construction and Renovation Guidelines environmentally friendly technologies. • Supplier Code of Conduct Anti-Corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, • Risk Assessment Policy including extortion and bribery. • Global Information Security Policy • Anti-Fraud Policy • Internal Audit • Supplier Code of Conduct An ongoing and open dialogue The purpose of this Responsible Business Report, in combination with the Rezidor 2011 Annual Report, is to help shareholders and other key stakeholders to value, assess and understand the operations of The Rezidor Hotel Group. We have an ongoing dialogue with our stakeencouraged at all hotels, including franchised Hotels are also able to use Rezidor’s exclusive holders and we report what we consider to be properties, and corporate offices. Unless on-line self-audit system that guides them of particular interest to those we deem key: otherwise indicated, achievements mentioned through a review of all key elements in the employees, customers, property owners, in this report cover all hotels which are Four Cornerstones of Guest Safety and Secushareholders, suppliers, authorities, commumanaged, leased or franchised by the Rezidor rity, Employee Safety and Security, Fire Safety nity and environment. Thus the Rezidor 2011 Hotel Group. This includes 325 properties or and Operational Security. One section of Responsible Business Report describes the 70,766 rooms which were in operation on questions is released to the audit each quarter, most material and relevant sustainability 31 December 2011. so at the end of the year hotels will have aspects of our operations, not the full range of reviewed the entire programme. The selfactions and data. Routines for Monitoring audit is more than box-ticking; it is like a livThe Rezidor Hotel Group Hotels are asked to report their Responsible ing manual since each question is directly Scope and Boundaries of the Report Business performance in two different reports. linked to a library of good practice examples Rezidor has limited the reporting boundaries Overall compliance with, and progress collected from the hotels themselves. The selfto areas in which the company has full control towards the objectives of the Responsible audit is freely available to all hotels, including over data collection and information quality. Business programme (see page 26–27) is franchises. In 2011, 268 properties were Downstream impacts are generally excluded – assessed through the annual Responsible actively using the system to help keep their as we do not at present dispose of reliable tools Business Status Report questionnaire. The internal safety and security policies, proceto measure these. The numerical data speciStatus Report is an internet-based system and dures and training programs up to date. fied in this report refers to the year 2011, contains questions touching on all relevant 31 unless otherwise stated. Monthly environmenareas of the Responsible Business programme. Accounting Principles and Verification Responsibility Report 2011 tal reporting and the annual Status Report, The questionnaire used is inspired by the UN Financial data presented in the Responsible compiled by the management team at each Global Compact and the Global Reporting Business Report is derived from audited hotel, form the foundation for Rezidor’s Initiative guidelines. annual accounts. For all external reporting, Responsible Business reporting. The reportEnvironmental performance data (e.g. currencies are converted into Euro. Accounting is based on year-end figures, meaning that energy, water and waste) is collected on a ing principles for financial reporting, as well all hotels in operation by December 31st were monthly basis for managed and leased hotels as the conversion rates used, are stated in Rezasked to report. Consequently, some hotels through an RB reporting section in Rezidor’s idor’s 2011 Annual Report. The Responsible report full-year data, while properties that comprehensive financial system. Moreover, at Business Report has not been independently opened during 2011, report only for the year-end 64% of hotels had a Responsible reviewed by auditors or any other third party. months they were in operation. Hotels that Business specific Action Plan in place for 2012. discontinued operations with Rezidor during These Responsible Business Action Plans are the year are not included. updated yearly. At the same time, 86% of the The scope of this report covers Rezidor as a hotels have also incorporated Responsible group, providing examples from operations Business related targets into their overall Busiregardless of brand. Responsible Business is ness Plan. The Rezidor Hotel Group is one of the most dynamic and fastest growing hotel companies in the world. The group currently features a portfolio of 425 hotels with 93,000 rooms in operation and under development in 65 countries across Europe, the Middle East and Africa. Rezidor operates the core brands Radisson Blu and Park Inn by Radisson – as well as Hotel Missoni, a new lifestyle brand which is developed worldwide following a licence agreement with the iconic Italian fashion house Missoni. Rezidor is part of the Carlson Rezidor Hotel Group, one of the world’s ten largest hotel groups. Rezidor’s long-standing, wide-ranging and award winning Responsible Business programme contributed to the group being named one of the World’s Most Ethical Companies in 2011 for the second year. For more information, visit www.rezidor.com If you have any comments, queries or questions, please contact: Inge Huijbrechts, Director Responsible Business inge.huijbrechts@carlsonrezidor.com Christiane Reiter, Senior Director Corporate Communication christiane.reiter@carlsonrezidor.com The Rezidor Hotel Group Corporate Office • Avenue du Bourget 44 • B-1130 Brussels Belgium Tel: +32 2 702 9200 • Fax: +32 2 702 93 00 • Email: Info@rezidor.com
