Communication on Progress 2011 United Nations Global Compact www.forensic-pathways.com www.forensic-pathways.com.au Statement of Support I am delighted to continue to reinstate our commitment to the UN Global Compact and to further reinstate my commitment as Deputy Director of the UK Global Compact Network. Our 2010 theme was around People, Planet, Profit and Principles in which we expressed our commitment to continued investment in our product and service development, our people, our infrastructure, our clients and our company as a whole. We looked forward to 2011 with optimism and the belief that the 2011 would be exceptional. We were not disappointed. 2011 proved to be challenging, but ultimately rewarding. We continued to invest in R&D in the area of data analytics and to see the success of our people in academic attainment and the commitment of the Company to the wider community. We know that this investment will bring even greater rewards for 2012 and will ensure that our commitment to People, Planet, Profit and Principles remains at the heart of Forensic Pathways’ business practices. We will continue to promote the Compact via our website, though our induction programme, through to our supply chain and to the wider community, proactively demonstrating that responsible business is ‘good business’ DEBORAH LEARY, OBE, FRSA Chief Executive Officer Principle 1 & 2 Protection of internationally proclaimed human rights Ensure non-complicity of human rights abuses THE COMPANY Since its incorporation Forensic Pathways (FPL) has been at the forefront of innovation in the forensic field and its continued success has been highlighted through the awards it has won throughout its 10 year history and its international expansion, with offices in the UK and as of mid 2010 an Australasia office, based in Perth, in addition to an international distribution network that expands year on year. However, what is more significant is the client base it retains year on year all of whom have to come to trust the Forensic Pathways brand, along with the local and global community it seeks to serve. Forensics is diverse. From crime scene to laboratory, from criminal intelligence to business intelligence, the scenario is the same. It’s all about understanding the ‘story’. Forensic Pathways’ commitment is to providing ground-breaking technologies dedicated to protecting human rights. To this end our clients are also diverse, including law enforcement, security services, governments, emergency services, lawyers, private clients, universities and multi-nationals, providing them with the latest criminal or business intelligence software and services. Our work is focused on the protection of rights of the individual as well as the organisations that we serve. Forensic Pathways is an ISO9001 Accredited company and is a signatory to the UN Global Compact on Corporate Social Responsibility. PRODUCTS, SERVICES & PROJECTS 2011 saw FPL’s continued commitment to projects and products aimed at assisting in the prevention of terrorism and the abuse of human rights, combined with the development of unique techniques for the advanced management and analysis of data. Our 2011 update is as follows: Forensic Phone Analyser (FPA) An automated technology enabling law enforcement to use Telecoms and Mobile Phone Data to identify suspected criminal organised groups without engaging in collateral intrusion on the privacy of law abiding citizens. Many law enforcement agencies globally extract data from mobile phones confiscated from suspected criminals, but have been unable to quickly analyse that data to make critical decisions due to the sheer volume of data. Using FPA this inability to make time critical decisions has now been eliminated, at the same time as protecting the rights of the innocent. We have continued to develop the technology with sustained research and development activities. Forensic Image Analyser (FIA) & the DIVEFor Project Having undertaken the development of a technology which allows investigators to identify which camera or mobile phone took a particular image, particularly critical for paedophile, terrorism, and industrial espionage cases, FPL is now actively promoting this technology. We have continued to develop the technology with sustained research and development activities. An example of its application and success is that it has been used by a particular law enforcement agency within the UK, whereby 600,000 images were processed, taken from a suspect accused of abusing children and circulating images of them on the internet. Previously this had been impossible for any agency to achieve. In addition FPL has now entered into a European project entitled ‘DIVEFOR’: Digital Imaging and Video Forensics Project. This is a 36 month project. Working with the University of Warwick, University of Rome and XLab in Slovenia the purpose of the project is to build on current technologies in signal processing, both of which are subject to international patent applications, namely:A. Forensic Image Analyser FIA (Identifies images to cameras/mobile phones etc) B. Forensic Image Classifier FIC (Identifies images with other images). This technology is a world first in the ability to uniquely identify which camera or device took an image and whether 2 or more images were taken by the same source. Interest from law enforcement across Europe and beyond has been received for the use of this technology on extremely large databases of 20 million plus images. This collaboration is continuing. Odyssey – Pan European Project As reported in our 2010 Communication Progress, FPL has been working with partners in Europe to develop a new method of managing and sharing information about gun crime across the EU. Partners in the project included EUROPOL, New Scotland Yard, European Network of Forensic Science Institutes, Royal Military Academy in Belgium, the EU Commission and a number of Universities. This project has major implications for managing and sharing crime and ballistics data across borders to help combat crimes against people, especially those vulnerable to the impact and poverty created by crime involving the use of firearms. The project was completed in second quarter of 2011. The final report shows a lack of technical and policy standards, lack of technical operatbility between ballistics systems globally and ineffective data sharing across Europe. It also demonstrated the potential benefits when these drawbacks are overcome. The final Odyssey Report can be found on Forensic Pathways website www.forensic-pathways.com Since completion of this report FPL has been working on a new technology for more accurate measurement and analysis of bullets and cartridge cases and firearms that will surpass current state of the art technologies. The Beta version of the technology is being tested. Videntifier™ Forensics In collaboration with the company Videntifier™, based in Iceland, FPL now provides a unique software, Videntifier™ Forensic, a service that recognises video material on seized storage devices, assisting law enforcement in speeding up their investigations and lowering their costs. Critically it also assists in improving working conditions for those involved in working in departments such as High Tech Crime. The trauma cannot be underestimated for those who are involved in the investigation of child pornography, abuse, or any violation of human rights. Officers have until now had to look through many hours of video in order to build the necessary evidence to secure a conviction. Through the use of Videntifier™ Forensics, this is now no longer the case. This technology provides law enforcement with an automatic and easy-to-use video identification system. A single mouse click is sufficient to automatically scan an entire hard drive for suspicious and illegal video material. With its speed, Videntifier™ Forensic saves investigators precious time, which they can spend on other more challenging tasks, rather than inspecting thousands of video files manually. At the end of each scan Videntifier™ Forensic returns a summary report, listing which videos have been identified. Videntifier™ Forensic performs its identification based on the actual content of the videos. The service can detect even severely modified or truncated versions of the same video, which easily fool checksum-based systems. The identification process itself is extremely efficient, even for very large video collections. Even in full accuracy mode Videntifier™ is capable of identifying a whole hour of video in under a minute. Forensic Pathways is now working with Videntifier on an integration project involving Videntifier technology and Forensic Image Analyser to provide a broader technology involving both technological capabilities on video and still images. This will continue beyond 2012. Targets for 2011 FPL had set a number of targets for 2011/12 with regards to its technology. 1. Ensure the roll out of Forensic Phone Analyser (FPL) and Forensic Image Analyser (FIA) and to continue to develop these technologies to fulfil client need 2. Continue to find opportunities for further integration between FPL technologies and Videntifier Forensics. FPL is pleased to report that both Analysers (FPA and FIA) have been through a period of trials with a number of law enforcement agencies and negotiations are taking place for implementation during 2011-2013. SUPPORTING OUR STAKEHOLDERS Forensic Pathways has to date not had an incident where it is found to be complicit in abuse of human rights. FPL has a rigorous, proactive and sophisticated internal due diligence process which is applied to all stakeholders. Stakeholders are monitored to ensure that there are no breaches reported and this is achieved via web alerts. We acknowledge that we have a duty to ensure that all stakeholders are informed of our stance on the protection of human rights and that should any instances be found that they are reported immediately. As a signatory to the Compact and to the 60 th Anniversary of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights all stakeholders are made aware of FPL’s reporting policy. The policy is reviewed annually and is promoted to stakeholders in a variety of formats:  Interview and induction process  Employee Handbook  Contracts of Employment/Contracts for Service/Distributor & Agent Agreements/Partnership Agreements  ISO9001 Documentation  Communication on Progress  People Invest Programme (see Principle 6) Sponsorship of Advanced Research Forensic Pathways has continued to sponsor members of staff in undertaking advanced research and development. One student namely Jenny Thomas successfully completed a Doctoral PhD at Huddersfield University supervised by Dr Richard Leary MBE at Forensic Pathways and Professor Liam Blunt at Huddersfield. The field of research was forensic ballistics analysis. Forensic Pathways has sponsored Ryad Soobhany in undertaking advanced research and development at Keele University. Ryad is in the final stages of his Doctoral PhD and will submit in 2012. Honorary Doctoral PhD Deborah Leary, OBE, was awarded an Honorary Doctorate in 2011 by Birmingham City University. Deborah became a Doctor of the University. NATIONAL & INTERNATIONAL COMMUNITY PROJECTS/SPONSORSHIP Forensic Pathways and members of its team are committed to providing support to a number of charities and social enterprises. It’s CEO and MD are both committed to a variety of unpaid Board Memberships in order to support a range of organisations, particularly those focussed on areas relating to discrimination. This is covered under Principle 6. Principle 3 Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining It is FPL’s policy that all employees have the right to undertake collective bargaining and may join a Trade Union of their choice. Employees are actively encouraged to join Professional Organisations as part of their professional and personal development and membership fees are covered by FPL if the area is directly related to the employee’s employment or FPL consider that it is of value to their personal professional development. Employees are also encouraged to develop social media networks and join professional groups within social media such as LinkedIn. This can provide opportunities for learning, mentoring, developing strategic business connections. Targets for 2011 A target had been set to develop a proactive LinkedIn Business Page and Twitter Account in order that employees build connections, search for relevant resources both from a company and personal development viewpoint. This target has been achieved with both an extremely vibrant Twitter account, along with LinkedIn and Facebook Page, all of which are regularly visited by all stakeholders. This has enabled employees to develop their own connections within the field in which they operate and to use these social media within an employment setting. Employees are also encouraged to volunteer for any community initiatives, locally, nationally or internationally and to support any work experience student who is brought into the Company on internship. PERSONNEL PROVIDER Following on from the appointment of new Personnel & Health & Safety Providers, Citation, all employees were provided with new contracts all of which included reference to the policies and procedures relating to FPL’s commitment to ethical stance, including its commitment to the UN Global Compact, and its range of related policies including Freedom of Association, Bribery & Corruption and Environmental Policies. Principle 4 Forced and Compulsory Labour Forensic Pathways operates a full Due Diligence/Business Intelligence service for its clients, both nationally and internationally. It is therefore to be expected that this service is also applied to our own business model and processes. Full Due Diligence is completed on every company with which we engage. Web alerts are set against our suppliers, clients in order that we can track any changes or issues which might affect the credibility of our supply chain or our clients. We are pleased to report that we have been unaware of any issues connected with our business that relates to forced labour, however, we recognise that this monitoring is ongoing and the company cannot be complacent. We have continued to promote the principles of the Compact to our new employers, our suppliers, clients, and our agents/distributors and have been clear that these principles lie at the heart of the company and must be respected. Should anyone or any company connected with Forensic Pathways be found to be breaching these principles it is viewed as immediate gross misconduct with regards to employees and in terms of suppliers, agents/distributors, clients, contracts would be terminated with immediate effect and those responsible reported appropriately. Principle 5 Support Abolition of Child Labour As with Principle 4, Forensic Pathways Ltd monitors its employees, clients, supply chain, agents and distributors in order to ensure compliance. In the event of an incident being reported, a full investigation would be undertaken and if found to be substantiated appropriate action would be taken, which ultimately would lead to the rescinding of contracts. All stakeholders are made fully aware of FPL’s commitment to the Global Compact Principles via Induction material, employee contracts, handbooks, distributor/agency agreements, partnership agreements and contract for services, as well as though the company website and other media. Any employee that is expected through their job role to travel internationally is briefed concerning any new market they may be visiting. WORK EXPERIENCE We continue to support local and European Work Experience Programmes. These programmes are fully supported by local schools, colleges, universities and European Community organisations. FPL never commits to a work placement unless we receive contact view the school or placement organisation, or by the parent/guardian. Any child or young person coming for work experience goes through a formal interview where all necessary documentation is completed including health and safety and insurance. They are also made aware of Forensic Pathways commitment to the UN Global Compact and what that means for their experience whilst with the company. No child is allowed to undertake work experience without evidence from the school or college. Students are only allowed to work between 9 am and 5 pm and must take regular breaks. Principle 6 Support the Elimination of Discrimination Forensic Pathways continues to be a fully accredited ISO9001 company ensuring continued improvement in process and standards across the company and demonstrating an overall commitment to ethical behaviour. People Invest Programme FPL’s People Invest Programme continues to be a success, providing continuous professional and academic development to its employees, as well as the opportunity for knowledge transfer. As mentioned in Principle 2 2011 saw FPL’s first employee to complete their Phd as part of Forensic Pathways People Invest Programme – Sponsorship of Advanced Research. Dr Jennifer Thomas qualified in September 2011 from Huddersfield University The Leonardo da Vinci Programme 2011 saw Ioanna Grinia work with Forensic Pathways, supporting the role of the CEO in terms of both the Company and her involvement with the British Association of Women Entrepreneurs. Ioanna was part of a ‘Leonardo de Vinci Programme’ The Leonardo da Vinci Programme funds practical projects in the field of vocational education and training. Initiatives range from those giving individuals work-related training abroad to large-scale co-operation efforts and forms part of the European Commission’s Lifelong Learning Programme. As part of her research into entrepreneurship in Europe and gaining experience in working in a UK based company, Ioanna joined the FPL & BAWE (British Association of Women Entrepreneur) teams for a period of 6 months and has gone on to continue to work in the UK. For more information on the benefits of the Leonardo de Vinci Programme go to http://ec.europa.eu/education/lifelong-learning-programme/ldv_en.htm FPL also continues to be an accredited WEConnect Company. WEConnect is the leading UK supplier diversity initiative. It is the UK’s leading advocate of women-owned businesses as suppliers to global and national corporations and government bodies. www.weconnect.org.uk ICT CLUSTER Richard Leary, Managing Director, has continued to support the ICT Sector with Cluster Support activities. He has over 10,000 businesses in this network all of which are listed in a database and Web Portal for digital networking and communications. This group is part of the Business Clusters West Midland Network (BCWM) which brings together businesses from other Sectors for collaboration and business to business opportunities. Universities and Public Sector organisations also take part in BCWM. INVESTMENT IN BUSINESSXCHANGE www.businessxchange.co.uk During 2010 FPL developed a cloud based technology called 'Technology Hive' detailed in its 2010 Report. As part of an investment in a new company build in 2011 FPL invested this technology into Businessxchange. BusinessXchange: An Overview The purpose of BusinessXchange is to encourage and foster collaboration between businesses, universities, local, regional, national and transnational agencies and organisations by greatly increasing the speed and ease by which organisations can easily identify potential partners and business opportunities. The BusinessXchange project collects information – contact details and information concerning products and services offered – about participating organisations, aspects of diversity, and levels of internationalisation, and makes that information available to other participating organisations as well as the general public. The initial data set comes from importing existing data, but it is expected that organisations keep their data up to date themselves through the BusinessXchange web interface. Unregistered (anonymous) users are able to search for key words and will be shown a list of matching organisations as a result. Access to organisation data will be very limited. Registered (logged-in) users can perform the same search tasks but they will be able to see more data, especially contact details. Benefits include:  visibility of the local and regional business community across the global stage  a virtual B2B trading environment  commercial opportunities across the UK  access to 100 tender websites across 40 European countries  sources of partners for collaboration  visibility on diversity  access to EU funded IP and innovation  access to investors and financial advice  routes to market for public initiatives  an infrastructure to support sector/market related initiatives Businessxchange is designed to foster economic growth by stimulating and engaging with a dynamic self-sustainable network of businesses across 26 sectors and giving those involved an opportunity to partner and work with businesses that match their business ethos and social reporting. www.businessxchange.co.uk Forensic Pathways is a member and its CEO is the Chair of the Midlands World Trade Forum. The MWTF is a support network to businesses within the Midlands region who are involved in international trade at all levels. The Forum particularly provides support to those who are new to export, providing advice and guidance on international trade strategy including issues relating to cultural awareness and diversity, and the management of Distributors and Agents, with particular emphasis on issues relating to bribery. www.mwtf.org.uk BRITISH ASSOCIATION OF WOMEN ENTREPRENEURS (BAWE) AND FCEM WORLD ASSOCIATION OF WOMEN ENTREPRENEURS In January 2010, FPL’s CEO Deb Leary became National President of the British Association of Women Entrepreneurs with the mandate to develop this support network and to continue to support the World Association of Women Entrepreneurs (FCEM) at an international level. BAWE is an Affiliate of Les Femmes Chefs d’Entreprises Mondials (FCEM), one of sixty affiliated countries from five continents. BAWE works closely with the commercial section of all the embassies. www.bawe-uk.org Members speak and represent British Women Entrepreneurs at conferences all over the world and participate in training programmes in the third world. The Association has been in existence for 50 years and has established itself as a recognised source of information on entrepreneurship and British women business owners. The Association primarily supports women who have been in business for three years plus, but also takes 10% of its membership from start-up businesses and 10% from women in corporates. In 2011 as part of her role as National President, she launched the ‘No Limits’ Conference as part of BAWE’s ‘Aspiration’ programme of training and networking. As part of this programme the Association offers an online business community where members can create business connections, partnerships and gain peer group support. Training and networking events are also provided focussing on issues as Finance, Non-exec Directorships and Presentation Skills. COMMONWEALTH BUSINESSWOMEN Through the role of National President of the British Association of Women Entrepreneurs, FPL’s CEO has co-founded Commonwealth Businesswomen, in association with the Commonwealth Business Council and the Federation of Business & Professional Women (BPW). A soft launch of the organisation took place at the Commonwealth Business Forum in Perth, Australia as part of the Commonwealth Heads of Government Meeting in October 2011. The Mission To provide an overarching international strategy for women in business, building on business and financial intelligence and promoting a network that is focussed on creating and supporting the business ‘thought leaders’ of now and the future. To provide the ‘toolbox’ necessary to help businesswomen achieve their vision and to challenge them to go beyond their expectations through the provision of information and mentoring, enhancing education and the development of skills. To provide opportunities for international trade, help shape strategic partnerships, and assist in the drive for innovation. To target and communicate key messages to policy-makers within governments, lobby via consultation and media. To act as a beacon of global business excellence for all. The Focus Key issues to confront include: Education and Skills Access to Finance Procurement Women on Boards Women and Technology International Trade Business & Financial Intelligence Mentoring http://www.cbcglobal.org/programmes/details/commonwealth-businesswomens-network http://www.linkedin.com/groups/Commonwealth-Businesswomen-4293523/about http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4gxs5BuWIOc EUROPEAN WOMEN IN LEADERSHIP (WIL) Women in Leadership (WIL) was formed to provide executive women a platform to network, to get support and identify opportunities. WIL’s ultimate objective is ‘to promote gender equality and the advancement of women in Europe.’ In 2011 Deb Leary, FPL’s CEO was voted onto the Board of WIL and is actively involved in the continued development of the Network including the ‘Women’s Talent Pool Program’ which provides a mentoring program to young women across Europe. The organisation holds two biannual meetings with top level European political and business leaders and focussed events for members in their respective regions. Full details of WIL can be found at www.wileurope.org PROVISION OF SUPPORT TO STUDENTS AND GRADUATES Forensic Pathways has continued its work in the provision of support to students and graduates by: Financial Support to students to undertake Research & Development;  Doctoral Research Program provided by Forensic Pathways;  Support to University Researchers in seeking public and private funding for research;  Provision of Mentoring to students at Birmingham University & Birmingham City University;  Partnering with Staffordshire University in seeking research and development projects for students;  Providing lectures and presentations to Birmingham City University;  Provision of mentoring to private members of the community involved in business activities and start-ups. COMMUNITY PRESENTATIONS/EVENTS Speeches and Presentations After Dinner Speech – ‘International Trade & Doing Good Business’ Institute of Asian Business (IAB), Birmingham IAB Committee, Patrons & Premier Plus Partners Dinner Keynote Speaker ‘21st Century Women: Making a Difference’ Focussed Women Annual Business Conference RBS, Bishopsgate, London Keynote Speaker ‘Doing Good Business: The Case for CSR in the SME sector.’ Launch of the UNGC & Discussions on SMEs, Supply-Chains, and the UK Network Wales Centre for International Affairs, Cardiff ‘Born Global – The Story of Forensic Pathways: A Case Study on International Trade’ Integra Women in Business Lunch Leicester City Football Club Keynote Speaker Warwickshire College Graduation Day Royal Spa Centre, Leamington Spa ‘In Safe Hands – Next Generation Legacy Planning’ Institute of Family Business Women’s Forum (Supported by JP Morgan) JP Morgan, London LMI Leadership Lunch & Awards 2011 Aston Wood Golf Club, Sutton Coldfield Articles http://issuu.com/sistatalknews/docs/sistatalk_newsletter_issue_1-280312/1 West Midlands Association for Women in Policing (November 2010) In December 2011 FPL provided sponsorship to the West Midlands Association for Women in Policing Awards The Association is open to female and male police officers, special constables, PCSOs and staff with the aim of ensuring continuous professional development of all employees, particularly concentrating on the female perspective. In its role, it seeks to raise debate and create awareness of the issues faced by women within the organisation and share information and develop networks nationally. Principle 7 & 8 Precautionary Approach to Environmental Challenges and Initiatives to Promote Environmental responsibility FAIRTRADE CONSUMABLES Forensic Pathways is committed to continuing to develop its green procurement process. It is the duty of the purchasing team to ensure wherever possible the purchase of fair-trade products and to take into consideration packaging and delivery when making all purchasing decisions. In promoting the Global Compact to our suppliers, we seek to encourage them to enhance their own environmental practices and to consider opportunities to reduce waste. FPL is committed to only purchasing recycled paper products for general office use and recycle glass bottles, cans and all cardboard and paper waste. Waste services are provided by Green Plan-It and Biffa Waste Management. CARBON FOOTPRINT Skype continues to be used as a method of communication in order to reduce the need for travel, including full teleconferences. In addition, FPL has now introduced web-based technologies to allow it to demonstrate its products (technologies) via the web rather than travel to initial client meetings nationally and internationally. (See Principle 9) Further initiatives include:  Fully utilising electronic banking.  Encouraging use of our website to promote information as opposed to brochures  Use energy efficient light bulbs where possible  Ensure computers are switched off when not in use  Have available information on local public transport arrangements  Setting a measurement reduction for utilities and energy consumption Targets for 2011 Our target for 2011 was to work towards ISO 1401 Environmental Management and to be fully compliant by 2012. Unfortunately due to changes in staffing it was not possible to undertake the accreditation process and currently new staff are being trained in the ISO standards to enable them to move Forensic Pathways into a position where it can achieve accreditation for Environmental Management. Carbon off-setting still remains a target Principle 9 Encourage Environmentally Friendly INTERNAL SOLUTIONS We have continued to use technology as a mechanism to reduce travel for our Sales team. Webinars are now a permanent feature of demonstrations, thus reducing local as well as international travel. Webinars are used alongside Skype technology for project meetings and collaborations. As one of the early adopters of cloud based technologies for the management of office technologies we have been focussed on the de-commissioning of several high powered, energy intensive servers. It was hoped that the transference to cloud based office services would be completed in 2011. However this has not been fully completed, but is on target for fourth quarter of 2012 and a full report on energy saving will form part of 2012’s Communication on Progress. EXTERNAL SOLUTIONS As previously reported in the Communication on Progress in 2010, many of Forensic Pathways’ solutions focus on the ability to share information and data that would ordinarily have required extensive personal collaboration requiring clients to travel extensively to ensure security. This ability to share disparate data and to communicate it effectively has a significant impact in reducing cost to client and also contributes to reducing the client’s carbon footprint. By using data sharing techniques there is also a significant reduction in paper. Digital Forensic Gateway Project (Awarded by the Technology Strategy Board) In the latter half of 2010 Forensic Pathways was successful in being awarded a Technology Strategy Board project in collaboration with two other partners, D2NA (leaders in Virtualisation and Cloud technologies and Staffordshire University. This R&D project over a 30 month period seeks to look at the potential of a ‘cloud based’ communication system using hardware and software for the delivery of products, services, training & meetings for the Forensic market (though this is not exclusive). At the moment there are restrictions on what can be reported due to the protection of intellectual property rights and market opportunities. However a full report will form part of FPL’s Communication on Progress on completion of the project. Suffice to say the aim of this project is to globally promote and actively demonstrate the ability to perform Forensic operations via a cloud based platform, the benefits of sharing data, and the financial and environmental benefits of working within a cloud based technology. Principle 10 Anti-Corruption and Bribery INTERNAL COMMUNICATION All stakeholders are informed that it is viewed as a fundamental breach of trust if they align themselves and therefore FPL with organisations who engage in corrupt or improper procurement practices. FPL’s policy clearly outlines responsibilities under the Bribery Act, our commitment to the UN Global Compact and seeks to highlight to its employees potential scenarios they may encounter. FPL policy explains the reporting rules and legislations and makes the procedure clear should a violation take place. This policy is made clear to all Stakeholders including employers, contractors, suppliers, distributors/agents and strategic partners. Breaches are seen as an immediate termination of contract. Initial training is provided to new employees as part of their induction and to those who are new to international travel. Refresher information is also provided to bring employees up to date with the latest legislation. All potential breaches must be reported to the CEO. EXTERNAL COMMUNICATION Forensic Pathways provides Due Diligence services to its clients internationally. This service allows clients to undertake Due Diligence on the credibility and integrity of third parties they are considering doing business with. The business practices, operational policies and other indicators of integrity can be checked via a database operated by Forensic Pathways. The Company offers both covert and overt Due Diligence investigations for clients. The process enables a client to investigate the appropriateness of mergers and acquisitions, procurement opportunities, request for business negotiations. This Communication on Progress is available on www.unglobalcompact.org, along with Forensic Pathways Ltd own website www.forensic-pathways.com and Forensic Pathways Australasia www.forensic-pathways.com.au In addition it will be communicated to all stakeholders directly ie employees, clients, suppliers, agents and distributors and all networks directly associated with Forensic Pathways Ltd. It will also form part of all presentations undertaken by the company in the course of its day to day operations. Unit 3 Ninian Park Ninian Way Tamworth Staffs B77 5ES Tel: +44 (0)1827 255170 Fax: +44 (0)1827 261022 Email: enquiries@forensic-pathways.com www.forensic-pathways.com Twitter @forensicpathway LinkedIn: http://www.linkedin.com/company/forensic-pathways NB: Where Forensic Pathways Ltd is mentioned this also encompasses Forensic Pathways Australasia. All images not directly related to Forensic Pathways Ltd are attributed to ‘Dreamstime’ www.dreamstime.com @Nasir1164/@Mishkacz/@Rasian Gilmanshin/@Bombaert@Stuart Key/@Alexander Zschach/@Nikhil Gangavane
