2012 English version The DIC Group’s Corporate Social Responsibility Program WEB http://www.dic-global.com/en/csr/ The DIC Group launched its corporate social responsibility (CSR) program in the fiscal year ended March 31, 2008. In line with the DIC WAY, an articulation of its basic management approach, DIC has identified fulfilling its responsibilities as a member of society through its business activities and contributing to the evolution of society as the cornerstones of CSR. The DIC Group strives to ensure a prompt and accurate grasp of evolving social imperatives, including global warming and the depletion of natural resources, and respond with solutions that deliver the value that its stakeholders expect continuously. The DIC Group pledges to take steps to ensure the DIC WAY Code of Business Conduct, our standards of conduct to fulfill its responsibilities, into line with the ISO 26000, as well as to promote CSR initiatives from a broad perspective with the aim of keeping abreast of changing perceptions of value. To guide its efforts to promote CSR as an integral part of its business activities, DIC formulates annual Groupwide CSR policies. In accordance with it, individual divisions, sites, domestic and overseas subsidiaries are charged with pursuing effective CSR programs by formulating their own CSR policies. As a framework for implementing its CSR program in the fiscal year ending March 31, 2013, DIC has developed 10 CSR themes as mentioned below. System for Promoting CSR The DIC Group’s system for promoting CSR centers on the Corporate Social Responsibility Committee, which answers directly to the president and CEO and is tasked with reporting on the status of CSR themes, as well as with proposing policies and programs for advancing CSR and deliberating matters related to CSR as a vital component of corporate management. (The Sun Chemical Group has an independent system for promoting CSR.) Formulation of targets and CSR policies As of April 2012 Submission to the Board of Directors Board of Directors Evaluation of CSR initiatives Corporate Social Responsibility Committee President and CEO Product divisions (7) + Sales administrative divisions (3) Departments responsible Corporate for implementation General managers of sites, presidents of subsidiaries (Administrative departments) Communications Dept. Promotion of CSR Compliance (coordination and support) Initiatives related to the maintenance and Education BCM Secretariat for Corporate Social Responsibility Committee Information security Environment, Safety, Health and Quality CSR themes Human resources management improvement of internal control systems Supply chain management Business models focused on customer satisfaction New technology development and value creation Harmony with communities and contributions to society ◎ The details of our CSR activities to be described in Report on Our CSR Themes of this report. P19 Communication with stakeholders CSR Framework and Themes for the Fiscal Year Ending March 31, 2013 CONTENTS Business models focused on customer satisfaction Themes that demonstrate New technology development and value creation distinctive capabilities Harmony with the community and contributions to society CSR of the DIC Group (A) Communication with stakeholders Environment, Safety, Health and Quality DIC Group, Globally Active and Expanding 2 Themes that combine elements of (A) Human resources management and (B) Supply chain management DIC Top Interview 4 Compliance Basic themes (B) BCM Information security Special Topics 6 Outline of the Report Special Topics 1 DIC SOLUTION 7 Contributing to solving social issues through This report has been edited with the aim of original product development enabling readers to easily understand the CSR initiatives of the DIC Group. The outline first Special Topics 2 DIC MISSOIN 10 covers the corporate data, top message, and We prioritize the “security of safety/ special topics pages, followed by activity reports environment/health” while maximizing the by CSR theme. benefits of chemical products. Linkage with Website The WEB mark ( WEB ) is indicated where Topics 12 detailed information or data is available on the Topics 1 Stakeholder dialogue website. Topics 2 Efforts in DIC color designs DIC website WEB http://www.dic-global.com/en/ Topics 3 Aiming to realize biofuel Scope of the Report CSR Activities by the DIC Group 14 DIC and domestic /overseas consolidated group companies are the scope of this report. However, please Targets and Results of Major RC Activities 16 refer to the below link for the scope of the report on the “Environment, Safety, Health, and Quality”: WEB http://www.dic-global.com/en/csr/pdf/dic_csr_scope_ja_2012.pdf Corporate Governance 18 Reporting Period For target domestic companies: April 1, 2011 to March 31, 2012 (FY 2011) Report on Our CSR Themes For target overseas companies: January 1, 2011 to December 31, 2011 (FY 2011) 19 Compliance (Some FY 2012 topics are covered here) Issued BCM (Business Continuity Management) 20 September, 2012 (the nex t repor t will be issued in 21 Information Security September, 2013) Reference Guidelines Environment, Safety, Health, and Quality 22 I SO26000 : 2010 / Responsible Care Code Human Resources Management 29 About the cover design Supply Chain Management 32 In order to thoroughly respond Business Models to Improve Customer Satisfaction 33 to social issues with a global perspective, we have expressed New Technology Development and Value Creation 34 the “C”s, which are the initials for DIC’s management vision “Color Harmony with the Community and Contribution to Society 36 & Comfort by Chemistry”, widely spreading to find seeds and needs Communication with Stakeholders 39 of our lives. * This repor t utilizes a c olor scheme informed by universal design, which is a Third Party Opinion 41 focus of DIC Group efforts, to give it an easy-to-read design. 1 Network DIC Group, Globally Active and Expanding The DIC Group has 186 affiliates and is active in a variety of business operations, including printing inks and synthetic resins, in 64 countries and regions in the world. Europe European countries Sun Chemical Group and 3 other companies Number of employees Net sale billion yen Operating income billion yen Main business Printing Inks & Supplies Neo Graphic Arts Materials Asian and Oceanian countries DIC China, DIC Asia Pacific and 61 other companies Number of employees Net sale billion yen Operating income billion yen Main business Printing Inks & Supplies Neo Graphic Arts Materials Synthetic Resins Corporate Data (As of March 31, 2012) Registered name: DIC Corporation Paid-in capital: 91.2 billion yen Corporate headquarters: DIC Building, 7-20, Nihonbashi 3-Chome, Chuo-ku, Number of employees: 3,408 (non-consolidated), 20,455 (consolidated) Tokyo 103-8233, Japan Domestic operations: 186 [domestic: 36, overseas: 150, including 84 Date of foundation: February 15, 1908 companies in the Sun Chemical Group] Date of incorporation: March 15, 1937 Business Performance Highlights Net Sales (Billions of yen) Operating Income (Billions of yen) Net Income (Billions of yen) Total Assets (Billions of yen) (Fiscal year) (Fiscal year) (Fiscal year) (Fiscal year) These graphs have been prepared from the accounts maintained in accordance with the provisions set forth in Japan’ s Companies Act and Financial Instruments and Exchange Act. In FY 2010, DIC had 157 consolidated subsidiaries and 29 affiliates. 2 Main countries: American countries the United States, Canada, Mexico, Brazil, etc. European countries Germany, the United Kingdom, the Netherlands, France, etc. Asian and Oceanian countries China, Thailand, Malaysia, India, Australia, etc. The sum of the operating incomes by region on page 3 below does not correspond to that of the operating incomes of all the companies, as the former includes the canceled amount (¥4 billion) America American countries Sun Chemical Group and 2 other companies Number of employees Net sale billion yen Operating income billion yen Main business Printing Inks & Supplies Japan Neo Graphic Arts Materials DIC, DIC Graphics and 38 other companies Number of employees Net sale billion yen Operating income billion yen Main business Printing Inks & Supplies Neo Graphic Arts Materials Synthetic Resins Chemical Solution Materials Operations The DIC Group is a global market leader with printing inks, organic pigments and synthetic resins as its core businesses. The Group currently classifies its businesses into four operations: Printing Inks & Supplies Business Operation Synthetic Resins Business Operation Synthetic resins for inks and painting, molding, adhesive and fiber Printing inks, printing supplies, processing, additives and chemicals Neo Graphic Arts Materials Business Operation Chemical Solution Materials Business Operation Organic pigments, Imaging and reprographic products, Special compounds and colorants, building materials, packing-related liquid crystal (LC) materials (TFT, STN) materials, pressure sensitive adhesive materials, plastic molded products, engineering plastics, membrane and related products Breakdown of Sales by Segment Breakdown of Sales by Region Percentages of the Number of Employees by Region Chemical Solution Others Asia/Oceania Materials Asia/Oceania Japan Total: Total: Total: America Japan Synthetic Resins billion billion Employees yen Printing ink & Supplies yen Neo Graphic Arts America Europe Materials Europe 3 DIC Top The DIC Group’s future as a dynamic organization starts with the ability Interview of each and every employee to approach his or her job with a high level of awareness. I realize that your tenure as president of DIC began in April 2012, but how do you evaluate the Company’s performance in fiscal year 2011, ended March 31, 2012? I took the helm at a time of great upheaval. Fiscal year 2011 was the second under our current medium-term management plan, DIC 102, which was formulated to guide us from fiscal year 2010 through fiscal year 2012. Our operating results during the period were affected significantly by a surfeit of negative factors, including the Great East Japan Earthquake and falling demand, a consequence of the global economic slowdown. However, efforts aimed at laying a solid foundation for future growth met with a certain degree of success. Bright spots on the business front included the rapid growth of thin-film transistor liquid crystals(TFT LCs) and green pigments for color filters used in liquid crystal displays (LCDs). Among encouraging developments on the production front were the launch of a global project to expand our production capacity for polyphenylene sulfide (PPS) compounds, favored as an alternative to metal materials for many applications, and the expansion of our packaging inks operations in key emerging economies. Despite operating in a challenging environment, you implemented a major corporate reorganization. What Yoshiyuki Nakanishi Representative Director, was the intention of this move? President and CEO DIC Corporation Effective from April 2012, we abolished our previous business operation led organization, replacing it with a matrix-like ability to act. the environment, safety and health (ESH) organization with product divisions along At the same time, we have a second identity, over the entire life cycle of products— the vertical axis and market-based sales defined by the Commercial Code and from the procurement of raw materials and administrative divisions, together with our Corporate Law of Japan, as a corporation. development through to use and disposal— existing Technical Administrative Division For this reason, the companies of the and unceasing efforts to improve product and Production Administrative Division, DIC Group must conduct themselves in a quality. along the horizontal axis. This has made responsible manner, mindful always of their We recognize the potential of chemicals it easier to implement unified strategies positions as global corporate citizens. In and related technologies to help address for each of our product groups, thereby 2010, the DIC Group became a participant certain key challenges faced by modern enhancing our ability to provide total in the United Nations Global Compact society, including the reduction of energy solutions encompassing sales, technology (UNGC), a move aimed at identifying consumption, the recycling and reuse of and production. The new organization how we, as a global manufacturer of resources and the achievement of barrierref lects three key priorities: “ true fine chemicals, could best contribute to free accessibility. Through efforts to realize globalization,” encompassing Groupwide sustainable growth on a global scale, and at our management vision — “Color and administrative functions and personnel strengthening our reputation as a company Comfort by Chemistry”—we will continue management; “speed,” namely, the ability with integrity. working to contribute to environmental and to act swiftly and decisively to market Conscious always of our position as a social sustainability. changes; and “mieruka,” a Japanese term global corporate citizen, we will work to meaning to elucidate something or render reinforce corporate governance Groupwide In closing, what resolutions it clearly visible, the objective of which is to and to promote the dynamic expansion have you made regarding fiscal ensure awareness of key information and of our business activities with the goal management challenges across the entire of providing solutions that draw on our year 2012? DIC Group. capabilities as a manufacturer of fine At t h e e n d of t h e d ay, h oweve r, a n chemicals. Our enduring objective is to Fiscal year 2012 is an important year for organization is simply a framework. The remain a vibrant entity that inspires a sense us as both the final year of DIC 102 and a success or failure of our businesses of pride in employees and is welcomed by crucial period of preparation for our next will hinge on our ability to change the the communities in which we operate. medium-term management plan. Before we mindset of each and every employee and formulate any sort of preliminary business to ensure the new organization functions How will DIC help address development outline, however, we must first effectively. Accordingly, I will continue to get our new corporate organization up and visit DIC Group sites to speak directly with social and environmental running smoothly. employees with the aim of ensuring that challenges going forward? The current global economic situation does both management and employees approach not encourage optimism. Nonetheless, we their responsibilities with the same sense of As a manufacturer of fine chemicals, we see remain confident in our core technological purpose. our ultimate purpose as being to provide advantages, which encompass both hard products that are indispensible to daily life technologies, including those used in the What is the basic philosophy and modern society. At the same time, we production of synthetic resins, and soft strive to create value by developing new and technologies related to the use of color. We behind DIC’s corporate social advanced products that reduce the impact see significant potential for integrating such responsibility (CSR) program? of our business on the environment and technologies and cultivating new markets. provide ever-greater levels of convenience The management and employees of the Like any company, we are essentially and comfort. Our capacity for creating such DIC Group will work together to drive the an aggregate of individuals. The most value depends on our ability to ensure development of innovative new products crucial factor behind our CSR program is social responsibility in everything we do. To and to further reinforce the DIC Group’s thus the commitment of our employees this end, we recognize Responsible Care as presence across a wide range of markets. to addressing the demands of society, a basic management precept. Responsible customers, suppliers and local communities Care encompasses both activities carried by continuously honing their sensitivity to out by companies that manufacture and/ issues and enhancing their expertise and or handle chemical substances to protect 5 Special Topic The DIC Group: Striving for a Sustainable Society Utilizing the Power of Chemistry to Solve Problems and Create New Value CSR Activities in Research and Development The Technical Administrative Division has reorganized the technical departments, which used to be located in each business division, into an organization based on the common elemental technologies in 2010. Since then, it has been producing effects in the development of high-performance integrated products by promoting the integration of all technological resources throughout DIC and internal collaboration. The Corporate R&D Department, which is in charge of developing the next generation products/ Special Topic technologies, focuses on operating in various domains, including new materials/high-performance materials, displays/electronics, new energies, and life science. In addition, we are making a total commitment in solving social issues through mutual collaboration with domestic group companies, such as DIC Graphics, and overseas companies, such as Sun Chemical Group research Managing Executive Officer General Manager of Technical Administrative Division laboratories and the Qingdao DIC Finechemicals Co., Ltd., and Tetsuro Agawa utilization of global management resources. We must save and efficiently utilize energy in order to utilize the limited resources for a long time. Reduction of greenhouse gas (mainly CO2) emissions is urgently needed in order to Establishment of a recycling society is prevent global warming, which is the main Energy required in order to reduce the issues cause for climate change conservation of resource outage and wastes. CO 2 Recycling reduction Management and reduction of toxic Social issues There are many obstacles that should chemical substances that may affect be removed in order to prevent human health and ecologies are Resource Universal socially vulnerable people from duties of a company Conservation design feeling inconvenience. Comfort Safety/ There are a number of materials around us that we Life reliability High level safety is required in materials surrounding would like to further improve in order for more people accessible tools and food in order to use them with to have comfortable lives reliability. 6 Special Topic DIC SOLUTION 1 Contributing to Solutions for Society’s Problems through Creative Product Development Shipping, information, housing, food products—there are number of problems that need solving in the industrial fields that support our daily lifestyles. Through creative development of new products, the DIC Group is contributing to solutions for such problems while generating new value. Social Improved Fuel Efficiency through issues Weight Reductions In order to alleviate global warming caused by exhaust gas solved, a shift toward plastic part usage in vehicles for its further emissions, improved fuel efficiency through vehicle weight weight reduction can be expected. reductions is needed. On the other hand, numbers of parts are being increased to enhance factors such as safety and comfort— this is where the substitutability of light plastic parts for heavier metal parts plays an important role. However, automobiles are used in a wide variety of harsh environments ranging from deserts to freezing-cold regions, exposing engine-related parts to high temperatures resulting from Special Topic combustion, vibrations, etc. This means that the role of plastic products is limited due to demand for parts with extremely high heat resistance, chemical resistance, etc. If such issues are DIC Solution CO 2 Energy reduction conservation Using High-Performance PPS Plastic to Expand Substitutability for Metal Parts PPS (polyphenylene sulfide) plastic has half the weight of aluminum, superb chemical-resistant and flameresistant properties. DIC started manufacturing the PPS compound in 1976 and the base polymer in 1987. Today, this PPS compound accounts for the largest market share worldwide. Automotive PPS-compound parts meet demand for a wide range of characteristics including hardness, flexibility and precise dimensional stability. DIC utilizes integrated technology to respond to such needs, to expand applications to not only engine-related parts but also in brake systems, fuel, and more, contributing to PPS conpound auto components improved fuel efficiency. The Strength Needed for Integrated Supply of Everything from Base Plastics to Molding Compounds VOICE DIC’s strength lies in our ability to undertake integrated development and manufacturing in all areas ranging from polymer molecular design to mixing and compounds In recent times, the Company has developed various innovative PPS compounds, with high levels of dimensional precision as metal parts, as well as the thermal shock property necessary to enable actual usage. DIC has also developed a long-glass-fiber compounding agent that replaces its short-glass-fiber counterpart to Masanori Uchigata dramatically improve shock resistance, heat resistance, and stronger fatigue characteristics. These Polymer Processing Technical Group 3 new materials have been adapted in applications such as parts used in next-generation system for Polymer Processing hybrid and electric vehicles, creating the potential for even greater fuel efficiency. Technical Department 7 DIC SOLUTION Contributing to Solutions for Society’s Problems through Creative Product Development Social issues Efficient Use of Resources for Newspaper Publication Newspaper companies in Japan are increasing the number of pages to include more information while newsprint paper becomes thinner and thinner from the view point of effective use of natural resources and reduction of delivery cost. In recent years, people become more environmentally aware. So newspaper companies are urged further efforts for environmental protection and trying to reduce the ink consumption. But there are many difficulties to balance resource conservation with printing quality by using thinner newsprint with lower ink film thikness. Energy Resource conservation Conservation DIC Solution Normal-con Higher-co centrated ncentrated news ink news ink Solution for the Balance between Resource Conservation and Printing Quality Top Higher-concentrated news ink is one solution to achieve the printing on thinner paper with lighter ink film layer. view But this type of ink sometimes caused unstable ink density, poor ink transfer and poor water fighting property under the high speed running condition before. DIC developed by gathering all DIC technology, and finally we have launched new generation high-concentrated news color ink series “PROUD” that complies with ECOSide view mark requirements in Japan. PROUD would be expected around 20% reduction of ink usage. Special Topic Effective Utilization of Limited Resources, Improvement of Work Environment, and Decrease in Number of Shipments VOICE Newspaper companies can decrease the thickness of ink layer by using high-concentrated news ink “PROUD”. And demands for this ink are increasing rapidly because it reduces the risk of “strikethrough” that the ink penetrates into the paper and can be seen from the back side. PROUD contributes to prevent the set-off problem. Furthermore, newspaper companies could get the following benefits from PROUD: decrease in the usage of dampening water, improvement of work environment Kazundo Suzuki by the lower misting of ink, and the reduction of CO 2 emissions from transportation. Newspaper Ink Technical Group DIC Graphics Corporation Social Enhancing the Environmental issues Performance of Mobile Phones, TVs Resource and Office Automation Equipment DIC Solution Conservation In contrast to the increasing multifunctionality and circuit integration Promoting Advances in Mobile Phones via Tapes, encountered in our current society, there is demand for resource and Films and More energy conservation and high recyclability. We must make devices DIC plays an important role in advancing mobile phone technology. The use thinner, lighter and smaller in size; increase functionality while of thin adhesive tape in place of screws promoting efficient energy use. to fix parts in the device contributes to thinner mobile phone designs. In addition, we developed a water-resistant tape, contributing to the world’s first waterresistant mobile phone. Furthermore, we have “anti-scattering film” prevents glass DIC’s industrial-use ad shards on the display from scattering when and films hold par ts i contributing to improved broken should the handset be dropped. performance 8 Social Creating Spaces Where Large issues Numbers of People Can Feel Comfortable and at Ease People need spaces brimming with warmth and a sense of repose in public, welfare facilities or in hospitals. However, the natural wood building materials is hindered by failure to meet fire prevention and flame resistance standards, forest protection measures, and other such factors. On the other hand, many patients, who see colors differently for genetic reasons, and others with differing visual capabilities have difficulty distinguishing between different signs, which leads to problems in terms of universal design. Takayama City Kokufu branch office building (“DIC Funen WO” installation example) Universal Comfort design Life DIC Solution Harnessing the Power of Chemistry to Produce the Feel of Natural Wood, and the Power of Color Universal Design for Accessible Color Usage Non-flammable “DIC Funen WO” decorative board, which features natural wood color patterns made using a photomechanical process (“Del Nature-fine” DIC proprietary printing method) and a rough wooden texture faithfully recreated via resin treatment Hospitals and other facilities have praised its designs highly and installed them in their own buildings. Additionally, in order to promote color universal design (CUD), DIC collaborates with Non-Profit Organization to improve public facility signage, along with provision of display boards Non-flammable “DIC Funen WO” decorative board expresses the texture and warmth of natural wood (such as timetable and route map in train stations etc). “Del Nature-fine” for unique design expression Special Topic Pursuing “Color & Comfort” through Accumulation of Unique Technologies and Knowledge VOICE Non-flammable “DIC Funen WO” decorative board is the perfect product for the facilities where a sense of warmth and repose is desired. Its cost is more reasonable than that for scarce natural wood materials, also contributes to forest protection. In addition, our display boards and panels with consideration for color universal design make use of our knowledge on color science related to Masaki Hayashi Senior Manager, pigment, paint and coating technologies for truly original products. DIC200 Promotion Department Architecture and Housing Material Sales Department Energy conservation Recycling Utilizing DIC’s Combined Power for VOICE DIC Solution High Added Value in Adhesive Materials Heat radiation from LED lights, and Easy I n dust r i al us e t ap e s an d f ilm s p lay a Recycling of Office Automation Equipment pivotal role in enhancing the environmental LCD TVs using an LED back light require adhesion and per formance of electric and electronic radiating heat for tape. To address this, DIC developed devices. There is a wide range of needs, including part attachment, product protection, thermally conductive transparency, and so on. DIC is able to double-sided adhesive provide various products with high-level tape with high thermal knowledge covering from polymer design/ conductivity for a powerful synthesis, resin design for coating films, heat-dissipation effect. additive formulation technology, to the Akira Yamakami Hiroki Takano Manager, Coating & Manager, Coating & dhesive tapes replacement with films and tapes. Applied Materials Group 1 Applied Materials Group 1 n place while Coating & Applied Materials Coating & Applied Materials environmental Technical Department Technical Department 9 Special Topic DIC MISSION 2 Placing top priority on safety, the environment and health while maximizing benefits from chemical products While supporting customer lifestyles through our wide variety of chemical products, the DIC Group makes efforts to ensure safety, protect the environment and ensure health in every phase of the product life-cycle. Striving for an Ideal Society Reduction of Demands of Society and a Favorable Role for DIC Initiatives environmental impact Safety and reliability Chemical Products Promoting Thoroughgoing Management Chemical products are used in various industrial fields and play a of Chemical Substances and Reduction of vital role in supporting our society, but the use of such products Substances that Impact the Environment carries with it the possibility of adverse effects on human beings’ The DIC Group integrated Responsible Care (RC) activities into health as well as on the surrounding environment. That is why the management system in 1995, and we are also implementing thoroughgoing management and taking measures to improve we carefully manage and regulate usage, amounts and emission management of and increase activities related to safety, the volumes of chemicals substances according to factors such as environment, health and chemical substances while anticipating chemical type and properties. Furthermore, businesses involved changes to legislation in each country and local region. Special Topic with these chemical products implement various measures to These efforts are carried out with a central focus on our proprietary Chemical substance Information Comprehensive management ensure safety for end users, employees, local residents and System (CIRIUS). While undertaking comprehensive management others. that covers even minute quantities of chemical substances found In an effort to achieve an ideal society and favorable role in raw materials and products, we apply automated checks for for chemical products therein, the action goal of minimizing domestic legal regulations, and as a primary processing company we also provide accurate information to customers that we deliver environmental and health risk from chemical substances by 2020 our products to. was agreed upon in 2002 at the World Summit on Sustainable Furthermore, we regularly monitor quantities of chemical pollutants Development (WSSD) held in Johannesburg, and following the released into the environment (air, water and soil) at each DIC International Conference on Chemicals Management (ICCM) plant while continually held in 2006, members in the industry began taking independent undertaking measures to reduce the amount measures to achieve this target. Numerous businesses involved in of environmentally everything from base materials to manufacturing of final products harmful substances, have brought together information on chemical substances minimizing impact involved in order to create a scientific basis for risk management on the surrounding environment. Volatile organic compound (VOC) processing and reduce risk from such substances. equipment (Saitama Plant) Proactive cooperation in programs to develop chemical product risk management VOICE We are proceeding with international programs (global product strategy) to improve chemical product usage and safety management throughout the entire supply chain in the global chemicals industry and reduce risk to society as a whole from chemical products. The first step in this process is providing highly reliable information on chemical substances and products and scientifically evaluating risk. We are involved in this type of program in Japan, through which the government and chemical industry work together to provide the necessary information and assess risk. As a chemical company, DIC strives to actively supply relevant information and promote “risk communication,” and Masato Akama Department Manager in we also aim to contribute to the improvement of precision in risk assessment. Through such efforts, Charge of Regulatory we hope to make proper use of chemical substances more widespread, provide stakeholders with AffairsResponsible Care easy-to-understand information, and decrease risk throughout all of society. Department 10 Demands Increased interest in food analysis for levels of such substances were needed. of Society product packaging material in Europe and the United States ● Regulations and Guidelines for European Food Recently, consumers have increasingly expressed concern Product Packaging regarding the quality and purity of food products, including factors In Europe, there are three types of regulations and guidelines set such as production region and environmental influences which by regulatory institutions/organizations regarding inks, coatings might contribute to this. Attention has also been focused in many and other materials used in food product packaging which must cases on components of the products’ packaging which are seen be followed: (1) activities of the EU and legislative bodies of as another possible contributing factor. member states, (2) industry associations, and (3) self-imposed In 2005, Italian authorities discovered the photoinitiator isopropyl controls of brand owners, converters, etc. thioxanthone in milk-based drinks—a problem that gained Some brand owners have already taken action to ensure that their widespread public attention. This substance was shown to have packaging is produced to low migration standards, requiring strict no adverse effect on the human body, but because contaminants control of the raw materials used and proof of low the migration present in food products may not always be detectable by the capability of all packaging components. sensory organs, we realized that more sophisticated methods of Reduction of environmental Safety and impact reliability Sun Chemical Group Initiatives characteristics to perform analyses to an ISO 17025–certified standard, Sun Chemical Group Low-Migration Products where incredibly minute amounts of migrating ink components (down to WEB http://www.sunchemical.com/ parts per billion levels) are regularly measured. The Sun Chemical Group has many years of experience in supplying inks, Special Topic coatings and other materials for printing food packaging. In order to meet ● Providing Comprehensive Solutions for Food Product demand for materials with low migration characteristics the Group has Packaging followed two formulation routes. The first employs energy curing (ultraviolet For many years, Sun Chemical has been aware of the strong market and electron beam curing) and focuses on significantly eliminating the demand for guidance on migration characteristics and the correct probability of migration through careful raw material selection. This specification of food packaging materials. Printing companies, converters, achieves the lowest possible levels of migration so minimizing the risk to brand owners and other members of the industry must not only make the consumer. the correct selection of inks and coatings and combination of packaging materials, but they must also take factors such as production processes The second applies to oil-based, Migration Type and environmental measures into consideration, in order to manufacture a c o nve nt i o n a l i n k s w h e r e t h e product which fully meets all specifications. This approach is necessary to ingredients used are permitted Penetration ensure consistent use of low-migration products suited to specific purposes. fo o d addit ive s an d mi gr at i o n Contact The latest edition of such information, titled “Designing Packaging with characteristic s are within the Certainty: A Best Practice Guide” has been published and is highly permissible daily intake levels for Evaporation regarded as a source document throughout the market. those materials. Sun Chemical has In addition to these activities, Sun Branding Solutions also provides general an analytical department that makes Temperature guidance for brand owners on the design of food product packaging for use of advanced technology and Gradient specific applications. specialist knowledge on migration Migration Mechanism Providing Comprehensive Solutions for Food Product Packaging VOICE For many years, Sun Chemical has been aware of the strong market demand for guidance on migration characteristics and the correct specification of food packaging materials. Printing companies, converters, brand owners and other members of the industry must not only make the correct selection of inks and coatings and combination of packaging materials, but they must also take factors such as production processes and environmental measures into consideration, in order to manufacture a product which fully meets all specifications.. This approach is necessary to ensure consistent use of low-migration products suited to specific purposes. The latest edition of such information, titled “Designing Sun Chemical Ltd. Packaging with Certainty: A Best Practice Guide” has been published and is highly regarded as a source document throughout the market. St. Mary Cray Technical Centre In addition to these activities, Sun Branding Solutions also provides general guidance for brand owners on the design of food product packaging Dr. Nick Ivory for specific applications. Technical Director 11 Topics 1 Dialogue with stakeholders Hiroshi Ishida Executive Director, CRTJapan Caux Round Table (CRT) Kaori Kuroda Executive Director/Board Member CSO Network Japan At DIC, we engage in discussions with various Date：June 6, 2012 stakeholders in order to reflect society’s needs in our Venue：DIC Corporation, Nihonbashi headquarters building corporate activities. We invited two specialists related to Experts：Hiroshi Ishida (Executive Director, CRT-Japan Caux Round Table (CRT) CSR and corporate globalization for our latest dialogue Kaori Kuroda (Executive Director/Board Member CSO Network Japan) based on the theme of “initiatives expected of a global Facilitator：Hiroko Ozawa (Manager, Ernst & Young ShinNihon LLC) corporation regarding human rights and labor practices.” DIC Participants：Head directors of the Logistics Division and General Affairs and Legal Department; General managers of the General Affairs and Human Resources Department, Legal Department, Responsible Care Department and Corporate Communication Department; and other persons in charge Opinions of experts DIC Responses ● It is very important to think from the stakeholder’s viewpoint we have to → We are aware of the frequent differences or mismatches between mention that the ones who evaluate your company are the stakeholders, what society in general has interest in and what we as a manufacturing and also taking notice of whether the trends of society and the actions of the company are aware of, and we are making efforts wherever possible Initiatives expected of a global corporation regarding human rights and labor practices company match up. regarding this issue. ● Many people are aware that human rights has become a central issue, as → We have been issuing questionnaires to business partners since Topics seen in the U.N. framework. One needs to take it into consideration within the February 2010（Refer to P32 ） corporate group as well as the supply chain. ● The issue of conflict minerals* has come under close international → Concerning the issue of conflict minerals, DIC is positioned midway scrutiny as a supply-chain human rights problem. It is impor tant to between the upstream and downstream ends of the value chain. Although we recognize what public consensus calls for and be capable of honestly do not directly procure materials from countries involved in such conflicts, we explaining your initiatives. are thinking hard about risk management we can perform. ● Among frameworks related to human rights, ISO 26000 represents the → We are thinking about modifying our DIC WAY Code of Business current base of thinking, and it is the standard for OECD multinational Conduct to bring it in line with ISO 26000. We intend to revise these corporate guidelines as well as the international human rights standard standards further should any new items be required as a result of newly for the U.N. guiding principles, etc. In particular, new ways of thinking developed concepts. must be taken into serious consideration, including participatory cases of indirect human rights violations via business partners. ● In regard to human rights, corporations are expected to respect → We must think about globalization and diversity together, and pay attention such rights, while the nation’s role is to protect those rights. As a global to link them to our actual business activities. Considering “employees” as corporation, it is important to consider what shape human rights should stakeholders, we recognize that “respect of human rights” leads to cultivate take, discuss just how far you can respect those human rights as a comfortable work environment, also to heighten the motivation of each company, and publicly announce your corporate stance. employee. In future, it may be a good idea to grasp how employees look at the company through surveys, to take a suitable approach in view of systems and frameworks. Concluding the Dialogue Five years have passed since the DIC Group began taking on CSR-related measures. Through today’s dialogue on “initiatives expected of a global corporation regarding human rights and labor practices,” we were able to understand just how important deepened recognition and understanding are as issues, and we intend to strengthen our efforts further. * Conflict minerals: Resources mined in areas of armed conflict in Africa, etc. 12 Topics 2 DIC color design initiatives Contributing to enhanced product appeal and brand strength through color design originating from uniquely Chinese elements Japanese companies that want to pursue growth within in China’s maturing domestic market, and Chinese companies that want to increase their value amidst a staggering number of established global brands—DIC continues to provide effective proposals to meet these types of needs by utilizing our unique analytical capabilities and viewpoint. A Unique Viewpoint, For Everything from Brand Strategy to Communication of Trends In order to make one’s presence known in the Chinese market, one 5, T1314-101 must appeal to consumers through color designs that leverages both Shanghai Trio ／ 上海トリオ T1314-102 1998年法國設計師 Virginie Fournier 和兩個朋友聯合在上海創立的品牌，如今在 T1314-103 北京和巴黎、圖盧茲、布魯塞爾、丹麥等多個世界城市擁有分店。作為藝術總監，她 頻繁往來于巴黎和中國，品牌在上海擁有中國設計師、色彩顧問和工坊。最初品牌 9 4, 做精美的絲綢小包等旅遊紀念品，促進了中國高端紀念品市場的繁榮，出現許多效 仿者。其服裝和手袋的設計理念主要從中國的大街上獲得，比如手袋的設計靈感來 T1314-104 源于中國郵遞員和電工的工作包，特別是它的顏色“中國綠”，因為它太特別了，他 uniquely Chinese characteristics and Chinese novelty, based on Tang’ Roulou 們費力找到專門為中國郵政供貨的廠家，弄來存貨。這種面料織得非常厚也非常緊， 以至能防水，而色彩的改變使它們成為上海組合獨有的設計，現在廠家已為上海組 ／ タン・ローロー 合特制面料。設計師還走遍中國尋找最好的綿和絲，尋找有經驗的手工藝人，在被 DIC-433 子、桌布和絲綢夾克上運用精美的手工刺繡和飾片，力圖讓中國古老的手工藝流傳 下去，同時也緊隨時尚的步伐，在有效率的市場操作中不斷引領潮流。 2004年法國設計師 Amelie 在北京設立的童裝品牌。糖葫蘆是北京特產小吃， “糖 DIC-F322 葫蘆非常北京，它給我的印象就是我的北京生活。 ”出於對中國傳統手工藝的熱愛， 1998 年フランス人デザイナー Virginie Fournier と二人の友人が上海で共同設立した Amelie 的設計裡運用中國的花布頭，充滿趣味的布料，鮮豔的顏色，非常傳統的圖 ブランド。現在は北京、パリ、トゥールーズ、ブリュッセル、デンマークなど世界の 案，同時還帶著法國式的溫馨浪漫。2008年她與朋友 Pierre-Yves（法國 NGO 組織 多くの都市にも支店を持つ。アートディレクターとしてパリと中国の間に頻繁に行き DIC-620 “寧夏婦女”北京聯絡人）成立的寧夏百花刺繡合作社合作，將百花合作社成員們的 来し、上海にも中国人デザイナー、カラーコンサルタントと工房を構える。ブランド 刺繡手藝應用到 Tang' Roulou 的法國式童裝中，希望中國的刺繡能夠在設計中得到 observations of global trends and the latest materials and expressive は上質なシルク小物バッグなどのお土産品からスタートし、中国ハイエンドギフト市 體現，真正做到中西設計的融合。看到很多中國老傳統正在消失，他們認為， “老傳 場の繁栄を促し、多くの模倣者を追わせた。その服飾とバッグデザインのインスピレー 統如果不拯救，會面臨消失的危險。 ”“我喜歡中國的老傳統手工藝，但我想用法國童 DIC-578 ションは中国の町並から得ることが多い。例えば中国の郵便配達と電気工事者のバッグ ”品牌不僅為農村婦女提供就業機會，還將合作產品 50 ％的收入 裝的方式來改變它。 の色に目を付け、その“中国緑”をもとめて専門生産メーカーを探し当てた。それは 10 捐贈給 NGO 組織“寧夏孩子”項目，資助當地的孩子完成學業。他們希望有朝一日 非常に厚くしっかり織りあげた、防水機能をも持つ生地で、色をアレンジすることで “中式法國童裝”能夠進入法國市場。 ブランド独自のデザインとなり、高い支持を受けた。今やそのメーカーにオリジナル 生地を生産してもらっている。デザイナーはまた最高の綿とシルク、 熟練職人を見つ 2004 年フランス人デザイナー Amelie が北京に設立した子供服ブランド。 “ Tang’ けるために中国全土を巡り、キルト、テーブルクロス、シルクジャケットなど伝統工 roulou”は北京特産“串サンザシ”のことで、 “私にとってそれはまさに北京での生活 芸の美しい手刺繍や装飾品を施し、さらに卓越したマーケティングマネージメントを を象徴している” 。中国伝統工藝への情熱から、彼女のデザインには色鮮やかでカラフル COLOR & TEXTURE 通して、トレンドを発信しつづけている。 な伝統柄の生地がふんだんに使われ、フランス風子供服のエッセンスが加わり、 ぬく 6 photo : 鈴木弘之 Hiroyuki Suzuki techniques. At DIC, we continually provide Chinese color trends based もり感のあるロマンチックなテイストをみせる。 2008 年友人で NGO 組織“寧夏女 各種各樣微妙的色感、彩度感強烈的色澤象徵著新的裝 French designer Virginie Fournier and two friends co-founded the brand in 1998 性” の駐在員 Pierre-Yves が設立した“百花刺繍社” とコラボし、伝統的な生地と刺繍に 飾時代。蘊藏著閃爍光澤的紅、濃艷的漆紅色、皮革般 in Shanghai, Now the brand have a branch in Beijing and in Paris, Toulouse, 新しい表現を取り入れ、中洋を融合したものづくりを続けている。「伝統を復興させ 濡潤的鮮紅、交疊編織與刺繡的炫麗的朱紅 ；豐潤的色 7 Brussels, Denmark and many other world cities. As artistic director, her frequent 8 6. 濃艷的土壁上遊盪的風流影像 12 11 る方法を考えなければすぐに消えてしまうものが多い」と訴える二人は、優れた刺繍 travel between Paris and China, with Chinese designer, color consultant and 澤，藍染的濃濃淡淡的藍，增添一層富麗深度的紫色 ； 濃艶な土壁に遊ぶ風流な影 技術を持ちながら自立できなかった地元の女性たちに仕事を与え、コラボ商品の売 workshop in Shanghai. First brands to exquisite silk packet tourist souvenirs, Graceful shades floating on enchanting mud wall 交織光點的暖褐色、隱藏著緻密光澤的古金色、與黑色 り上げの半分を NGO 組織“ 寧夏子供プロジェクト”にも寄付している。今後の目標は promote the prosperity of Chinese high-end souvenir market, and now there 交織的飄逸的金色 ；行雲流水般生機勃勃的彩色。 “中国風フランス子供服”をフランス市場に展開すること。 are many imitators. The inspiration of clothing and handbags design almost 7. 縈迴盤繞、自由灑脫的異國情調的質感 さまざまな感覚を自由に遊んだ、エキゾチックなテクスチャー さまざまなニュアンスを持った、彩度感のある色合いが come from China's street, such as handbags inspired by the Chinese postman Care-free play of exotic texture combined with diverse feelings The brand of children’s clothing established by French designer Amelie in 2004 and electrical work packages, especially its color Green China because it is so 新しい時代を象徴する。きらめく光を奥に湛えたレッド、 in Beijing. “Tang’ roulou” is a specialty candied fruit snacks in Beijing it gives special, they found the special effort Postal supply manufacturers in China to 艶やかな漆の赤褐色、エナメル調の濡れたようなビビット 8. 溫雅的素材呈現的大膽生動的美感 me the impression that my life in Beijing. For the love of traditional Chinese get their stock. This very thick woven fabric is very tight, and even waterproof, 味わい深い素材に大胆でダイナミックなエッセンス レッド。織りと刺繍をかさねた鮮烈な朱、豊潤な色合い、 on many years of surveys and analytical experience, and propose our arts and crafts, Amelie use the design in full of fun China fabrics with bright which they changed the color to a unique design of “Shanghai Trio”, and now Give bold and dynamic essence to complex material 藍染の濃淡を重ねたブルー、妖艶な深みを増した パープ color and traditional patterns, but also with a French-style romantic taste. In manufacturers have a special combination of fabrics for them. Designers ル、光を織り込んだブラウン、緻密な光を秘めたカッパー、 2008 she collaborated with a friend Pierre-Yves (French NGO organizations, also traveled throughout China to find the best cotton and silk, looking for 9. 原味的精華 濃郁而有彩度的色澤 黒と交錯する洒脱なゴールド、ダイナミックなうねりを プリミティブなエッセンス 豊かな彩度感のある色 Ningxia women Beijing contacts) who set up “Ningxia Bai Hua embroidery experienced craftsmen, the quilts, tablecloths and silk jacket used exquisite hand 打つ繧繝彩色。 Primitive essence; Colors of rich chromaticness cooperatives”, cooperative members will be embroidered flowers craft embroidery and decorative pieces, trying to make China the ancient craft handed applied to the Tang' Roulou’s French children's clothing in the hope that down, but also in an efficient market operations continue to lead the trend. 10. 風土與民族交織的美感 富有格調的色彩匯融 C olors of various nuances and chromaticness http://www.shanghaitrio.com/index China's Embroidery can be reflected in the design, truly expresses the new 風土と民族が生み出した美意識 格調ある色彩の融合 symbolize the arrival of new era. Red embraces harmony of Chinese and Western design. See a lot of old Chinese traditions are Aesthetics created by natural features brilliant glow within, reddish brown of glossy disappearing, they think, Tradition needs renaissance and support, otherwise it and ethnics, a fusion of elegant colors Japanese lacquer, vivid red reminds of wet enamel. will be soon vanished and forgotten. I like old traditional handicraft in China, but 13 Sparkling vermilion created by the layer of weaving 11. 交織著細緻光點的暖褐色 I want to change the way by the French children's wear. Brands not only provide highly effective CMF (Color/Material/Finish) method of communicating 細やかな光を織り込んだブラウン and embroideries; Colors of abundance. Blue, employment opportunities for rural women skillful in embroidery works,, co雲母の入り混じった土のようなテクスチャー the over wrap of shading indigos. Purple with products will also donate 50% of revenue NGO organizations “Ning Xia Children Brown worked with delicate shimmer increasing depth of glamour; Brown with woven project”, the funding of local children to complete their studies. They hope that Texture of soil as if blended with flakes of mica shimmer within, copper enfolding delicate dazzle. one day Chinese French children's clothing will enter the French market. Unconstrained gold mingling with black; A string of http://www.tangroulou.com 12. 溫雅柔和的光輝 現代闡釋的傳統美 gorgeous and dynamic waves of colors. 温雅でおおらかな輝き、現代的に解釈された伝統の美 Brilliance of gracefulness and openness, a modern interpretation of traditional beauty 012 Theme 1 / Sprit of Asia 13. 隱藏著緻密光澤的古金色 013 Theme 1 / Sprit of Asia 01 9 緻密な光を秘めたカッパー Subtle dazzle enfolded in copper as part of brand strategy. The importance of color-based marketing strategy continues to grow, expanding rapidly in various industries including automotive, home electronics, cosmetics, food products, fashion and others. Topics Eri Ohmae Color Director (and editor-in-chief of the Chinese Color Trend Book) Consulting Division DIC Color Design, Inc. 2013 –2014 Chinese Color Trend Book Topics 3 Striving for achievement in biofuel A Trial in Sustainable Resources and Energy Production through the Development of Spirulina Cultivation Technology With fossil fuel resources running dry, global warming intensifying, the mass cultivation for production of jet fuel, chemical product raw materials risks of nuclear energy becoming more apparent and other such factors, and other products. The DIC Group plans to utilize its outdoor mass natural energy has become the focus of much attention. Plants and algae, cultivation know-how to support practical implementation of an algaewhose photosynthetic processes make use of one of our most familiar based biofuel, with the goal of freeing society from reliance on nuclear energy sources (the Sun), provide examples of the ultimate sustainable power, fossil fuels and other such energy sources and contributing resource and energy solution. In particular, algae exhibits photosynthetic toward the development of clean and sustainable energy and resource efficiency as well as a highly effective CO 2 absorption effect (carbon development. offset) while under cultivation—a fact that has caught the interest of many. The DIC Group sells the photosynthetic algae spirulina for various purposes, including use as a health food product and use as the food coloring “Lina Blue,” and DIC is the only company to use spirulina outdoor mass cultivation technology, which is based on more than 30 years of experience. With the goal of fully utilizing this technology, the University of Tsukuba as well as the American company Sapphire Energy are The algae Botryococcus braunii, which is Earthrise, an American company simultaneously undertaking collaborative research related to outdoor used in biofuel undertaking cultivation of spirulina 13 The DIC Group’s CSR Activities ＊ The “Evaluation” column is based on self-evaluations of current progress. Evaluation marks: ★★★…Excellent ★★…Satisfactory ★…Needs Work CSR Theme/Objective Objective/Task FY 2011 Goals FY 2011 Results Evaluation Reference FY 2012 Goals Page ・Finished preparing Japanese and English Revise the contents of the ・Create and distribute a materials; Chinese 2008 edition of the DIC Raise awareness of digest of the DIC WAY to materials not yet complete WAY Code of Business compliance promote understanding of the code of conduct ・Utilized e-learning Conduct and finalize the materials while promoting contents of the 2013 further integration of the edition code of conduct Compliance / fair and transparent corporate activities Complete ・Create e-learning easy-to-understand Conduct business resources for the ・Completed a basic draft materials and provide fairly Subcontract Act and for e-learning materials e-learning education for ensure thorough employees involved in compliance subcontracting deals The DIC Group’s CSR Activities ・Confirmed substitutability for main products and their ・Continue examining ・Plan BCM and supply substitutability of main chain coordination materials, and began consideration of relevant product BCP ・Formulate frameworks measures ・Complete for each kind of disaster establishment of BCP at ・Provided support for ・Roll out BCM at affiliates expansion of BCM to domestic and overseas affiliates subsidiaries ・Completed equipment ・Conduct division training Business continuity ・Identify and improve response manuals management problem areas based in headquarters Ensure DIC Group summarizing initial emergency measures to (BCM) / limit business on reviews following the responses in disaster risk Great East Japan prepare for disasters and continuity consideration of reviews consider measures to Earthquake and future following the Great East training improve effectiveness Japan Earthquake, etc. further ・Conduct media-based training in preparation of ・Conducted media-based ・Work together to measures for handling training for directors, crises (while organize the executives, etc., in management system simultaneously conjunction with other enhancing reputation on and implement measures to achieve measures to respond to a daily basis), and sharing of knowledge continue such measures various risks based on those results ・While organizing guidelines, ・Introduced an internal auditing ・Organize guidelines for appointed a Chief system to strengthen the confidential information Information Management information security framework Measures toward management and further achieving and Officer and Chief Information ensuring information Establish a global establish an in-house Manager for each ・Firmly established a security security information security management system department to strengthen the management framework in framework ・Create rules and Company’s internal domestic and overseas Group systems to organize a management system companies confidential information ・Established standard IT ・Introduced a new system that framework in Group governance rules for is compatible with smartphones companies overseas affiliates and other new devices 14 CSR Theme/Objective Objective/Task FY 2011 Goals FY 2011 Results Evaluation Reference FY 2012 Goals Page ・Support the creation of Indonesian Concerning organization of Train and appoint HR systems Completed personnel system organization in the national staff HR systems national staff to ・Carried out analyses of roles and led by DIC Asia Pacific at advance global evaluation of results for accounting Southeast Asia region at one company in Indonesia. overseas subsidiaries, management and financing operations personnel reorganization was carried Completed analyses of roles ・Integrated the HR systems at our at three Thai companies. out at two Indonesian three Thai companies companies Increased female sales (1) Increase the number of Support staff staff (16 in May 2011 → Human resource diversity and ・Continue with initiatives female employees hired management / 20 in May 2012) and diversity in working aimed at expanding roles female manufacturing staff and (2) continue to increase striving to improve styles through for women in the roles for women in the job satisfaction workplace (7 in May 2011 → 8 staff workplace (sales and working women at 5 worksites in two plants promotion activities manufacturing positions) in May 2012) Further promote Support staff ・Maintain and improve employment of diversity and upon the legally handicapped persons in diversity in working stipulated annual Achieved a 2.098% employment rate (legally response to the increase styles by promoting employment rate and in the legally stipulated employment of continue to cultivating stipulated rate: 1.8%) by the end of FY 2011 handicapped employment handicapped comfortable work rate from FY 2013 onward persons environments (1.8%→2.0%) Carried out explanations Use DIC Group purchasing of CSR procurement at 24 Provide explanations of Create base for The DIC Group’s CSR Activities management regulations subsidiaries in the China CSR procurement at fair purchasing as a model to follow up on region. Not yet carried out practices subsidiaries in the the creation of purchasing at overseas subsidiaries Southeast Asia region management regulations in the Southeast Asia Supply chain for overseas affiliates region. management / global expansion of CSR ・Promote distribution of the procurement DIC Group Supply-Chain Collected questionnaires Promote CSR CSR Promotion Guidebook from 200 business to domestic and overseas companies. The feedback Update the DIC Group procurement Supply-Chain CSR business partners (200 rate was 90%, centering companies) and collect primarily on domestic Promotion Guidebook questionnaires from said suppliers. partners Developed multiple Creation of solutions selected themes as part of businesses: select specific ・Plan and establish as marketing activities. Some themes from within specific business models themes progressed as far next-generation, growing selected solutions for as the business model fields and strive to improve Business model proposal stage, and customer satisfaction by focused on Promote solutions business themes overall development is creating appealing solutions customer businesses progressing smoothly. businesses satisfaction / adapted to changes establishing in social ・Take a comprehensive and Improve customer satisfaction “solutions imperatives multifaceted approach to promoting Held numerous levels by utilizing DIC businesses” DIC's core technologies and comprehensive technology improvements tools consisting representative products to exchanges with major of product guidebooks, important customers in major electronics manufactures and exhibitions and technology high-demand industries; research achieved results in exchanges to achieve customers’ needs and strengthen determination of customers’ penetration and enhancement relationships needs of the DIC brand Proceeded with creation of research Improvement of reports that are used as important Strengthen collaboration development ・Establish a system to media for the purpose of consolidating and combining of capability of new consolidate technological technological resources, achieved approximately three times the technologies among Group New technology products/technolog resources throughout the companies (including development and y contributing to DIC Group registered entries per researcher compared with the previous year, and overseas companies) value creation / sustainable society proposing planned active use of these resources solutions that leverage ・Promote research ・Promote research component Promote themes related to the Business volume of themes related to the technologies development of environment environmentally-conscious environment environmentally-co ・Speedy launch of new products as a percent of all ・Speedy launch of new nscious products environmentally-conscio products: 54% environmentally-conscio and services us products into markets us products into markets 15 RC Targets and Achievements of Major RC Activities ＊ The “Evaluation” column is based on self-evaluations of current progress. Evaluation marks ★★★…Excellent ★★…Satisfactory ★…Needs Work CSR Theme /Objective Objective/Task Reference Page FY 2011 Goals Prevention of global warming and Reduce energy use per energy source by 1% compared promotion of energy saving with the previous year’s levels Reduction of industrial waste (zero emissions) Reduce volume of industrial waste sent to land¬fil s via zero-emissions activities Reduction of volume of Landfilled solid waste DIC: 85 t (-5% compared with previous year); DIC Group (domestic): 151 t (-27% compared with previous year) Reduction of industrial waste discharged from Volume of waste produced by production plants production plants DIC: 16,219 t (-2% compared with previous year); DIC Group (domestic): 62,591 t (-3% compared with previous year) Environmental conservation Continue to promote recycling at DIC Group companies (reduction of environmental Promotion of recycling (domestic) and improve resource recycling impact via business activities) Emission control of chemical substances PRTR 1st-designated chemicals (462) DIC: 292 t (-9% compared with previous year) + Substances targeted for study by JCIA*1 (105) DIC Group (domestic): 799 t (-19% compared with + 1 substance group previous year) DIC: 282 t (-9% compared with previous year) Reduction of VOCs released into the air DIC Group (domestic): 789 t (-19% compared with previous year) Provide guidance on risk assessments connected with RC Targets and Achievements of Major RC Activities Risk assessment equipment investment. Be timely in provision of information. Process safety and fi¬re prevention / occupational safety and health Continue with safe corporate climate cultivation working Promotion of sharing of environment and groups and summarize proposals from the current fiscal safety information between DIC and Group year. companies (both domestic and overseas) Hold accident case study seminars and share information. Reduction of GHG emissions caused by Promoted modal shift and reduce energy consumed during transportation transport by individual energy source by 1% Logistics / safety Management of transportation safety of Organize yellow cards and have general freight vehicles chemicals including container trucks, lorries, and vehicles carrying mixed freight carry them Continue to have incoming raw material information Promotion of green procurement collected and centrally managed by CIRIUS in accordance with the DIC Group's Green Procurement Guidelines Measures to cope with GHS (measures for the requirement to disclose information on Continue to prepare SDS for all Company chemical Chemicals / product safety products and distribute them through the Company website chemicals contained in products) Measures to cope with overseas Assure registration concerning China’s revised Measure on regulations (e.g., the REACH regulation in Environmental Administration of New Chemical the EU) Substances. Continue with registration under Taiwan’s revised Labor Safety and Health Act. Make the information on our RC activities public through the Communications with society Report on RC activities and site reports CSR report and DIC website. In addition, promote risk for each plant communications between DIC’s production sites and local communities through site reports. Interpret both “quality” and “product quality” as “quality of work,” use ISO 9001 and others as QMS tools to ensure product quality and increase levels of customer satisfaction Quality management (customer satisfaction) Securing of quality Confirm and organize QMS tasks at business divisions and offices, support improvement activities, and improve quality management activities Hold a meeting for personnel in charge of safety in the Promotion of the environment and safety Asia/Oceania region, conduct training in basic safety and activities at affiliated companies in the procedures and provide support for points that need Support for environmental Asia and Oceania regions improvement at each company. safety management activities for overseas affiliates Confirm the actual state of management at several DIC Environmental/safety data Group companies (overseas affiliates), clarify management standards, and confirm and provide support for problem areas *1 Japan Chemical Industry Association: One of the Japan’s major industry organizations, JCIA is a member of the ICCA and pursues the healthy development of the chemical industry with other organizations around the world. 16 FY 2011 Results Evaluation FY 2012 Goals Energy use per energy source increased by 11.2% compared with 1990 Reduce power usage by individual energy source in FY 2012 levels and by 4.9% compared with the previous year’s levels by 1% compared with the previous year Volume of industrial waste sent to land¬fills via zero-emissions activities Volume of landfilled solid waste via zero-emissions activities DIC: 104 t (+15% compared with previous year); DIC Group (domestic): 158 t (-24% compared with previous year) DIC: 53 t (-49% compared with previous year); DIC Group (domestic): 104 t (-34% compared with previous year) Volume of waste produced by production plants Volume of waste produced by production plants DIC: 16,845 t (+1% compared with previous year); DIC Group (domestic): 65,251 t (+1% compared with previous year) DIC: 17,006 t (+1% compared with previous year); DIC Group (domestic): 65,309 t (0% change compared with previous year) Resource recycling rate Continue domestic DIC Group’s recycling efforts and improve DIC: 71.9% (-6.1% compared with previous year) rate of resource reuse DIC Group (domestic): 87.7% (-1.6% compared with previous year) DIC: 324 t (+1% compared with previous year) DIC: 332 t (+2% compared with previous year) DIC Group (domestic): 750 t (-24% compared with previous year) DIC Group (domestic): 667 t (-11% compared with previous year) DIC: 310 t (0% change compared with previous year) DIC: 318 t (+3% compared with previous year) DIC Group (domestic): 736 t (-25% compared with previous year) DIC Group (domestic): 653 t (-11% compared with previous year) Risk assessment guidance was provided for affiliated companies. Provide guidance on risk assessments in connection with Information on accidents and disasters at DIC Group (domestic DIC RC Targets and Achievements of Major RC Activities equipment investment. Conduct accident analyses and plants, domestic affiliates, overseas affiliates) was shared with Group provide information in a timely manner. companies via the intranet network. Working groups were held on a regular basis and proposals were Continue with safe corporate climate cultivation working groups summarized. Accident information sharing was carried out and and summarize proposals from FY 2012. information was distributed to Group companies. Hold working groups and share safety information. Annual energy consumption during transportation for the 2011 one-year Continue to promote modal shift and reduce energy consumed period decreased by 4.5% per unit of transportation during transport by individual energy source by 1% per year Yellow cards were carried in general freight vehicles including container trucks, lorries, and vehicles with mixed freight Continue pursuing the same measures In accordance with the DIC Group's Green Procurement Guidelines, materials information collected was organized and centrally managed Continue pursuing the same measures using CIRIUS Continue to distribute SDS for all chemical products through the website. Introduce SDSs were created for all chemical products and made available on a system for creating SDS for each country outside of Japan based on that the Web country’s laws and regulations and in that country’s language(s), and prepare an operating environment enabling introduction of this system starting in FY 2013. Conduct registrations based on China's amendment on Environmental Provide SDS based on China’s Regulations on Safe Management of Hazardous Administration of New Chemical Substances. Chemicals and ensure that labels are properly affixed. Carry out additional registrations Undertake revision operations in order to create a list of existing chemical of existing chemicals in Taiwan. Complete registration within the current fiscal year of substances for Taiwan. substances that will reach their EU REACH registration period expiration in May 2013. Publicized RC activities in the CSR report and on DIC's website, created site reports for each DIC business location, and provided this information Continue pursuing the same measures to plant visitors Utilize ISO 9001 and other such QMS as tools for carrying out Confirmed that each factory and business division has reliably work efficiently, and promote improved customer satisfaction implemented QMS activities and that the Production, Sales, Technical through utilization of QMS and Quality Assurance Departments have collaborated each other. Once per year, audits are carried out by a specialized department (RC Department) to confirm improvements in customer satisfaction, and Identify and organize QMS issues within new systems while support measures to improve effectiveness are implemented. supporting improvement activities, and enhance quality management activities In February 2012, held a meeting for personnel in charge of safety in the Hold a meeting for personnel in charge of safety in the Asia/Oceania Asia/Oceania region. Conducted training on environment and safety. region, conduct training in basic safety procedures and provide Carried out observation at local affiliates and provided support for points support for points that need improvement at each company (hold that need improvement. meetings in alternating years in the Asia/Oceania and China regions) Confirmed the state of management at multiple companies in the DIC Provide support for points that need improvement at each Group (DIC (China) Co., Ltd. and DIC Asia Pacific Pte Ltd. overseas company in the DIC Group (overseas affiliates). Select offices affiliated companies), clarified management targets, and confirmed and that are in need of special safety-related support, and provide supported resolution of problem areas such support in cooperation with head companies in the regions. 17 Corporate Governance WEB http://www.dic-global.com/en/about/governance.html Basic Concept of Corporate Concept and specific initiatives to Governance secure internal controls The DIC Group considers corporate governance as “the Establishment and operation of appropriate internal controls are system in which decisions are made for the management policy considered essential in order for a company to fulfill its social and corporate executives’ business conduct is appropriately responsibilities and achieve sustainable growth. monitored, evaluated, and motivated in order to conduct healthier, The “Basic Policy for Internal Controls”, which was resolved more efficient, and better management with the aim of sustainable by the board of directors, stipulates that internal controls are corporate growth and development”. established as part of the CSR activities in DIC. The contents of In addition to appointing two external attorneys as outside the establishment include compliance with laws and articles of auditors, DIC also appoints two outside directors to further incorporation, security of financial report reliability, management of strengthen corporate governance. We also have “Nomination risks of loss, and security of appropriateness of work in a corporate Committee” and “Remuneration Committee” with outside directors group, etc. Specifics of the operation include the establishment as part of members, as the advisory committees for the board of of the business principle (including the whistle-blowing system), directors in order to enhance the objectivity of decision-making risk management activities by the CSR Committee, establishment for appointment of candidates for DIC directors and executive of various internal rules, and monitoring (internal controls audit, Corporate Governance officers, etc. and remuneration for them. environmental safety audit, and Subcontract Act audit, etc.). Meeting of stockholders Corporate Governance Structure Appointment Appointment Audit Board of directors Board of auditors Nomination Committee Remuneration Committee President & CEO Accounting audit Accounting auditors CSR Committee Executive Committee Sales Administrative Division, Product Division, Production Administrative Division, Group Internal Control Dept. Technical Administrative Division, R&D Division, Administrative Department, Office companies Internal audit Supporting the UN Global Compact as a global chemicals manufacturer WEB http://www.dic-global.com/en/csr/philosophy/management/gc.html In order to fulfill its social responsibilities in the international community in a more proactive manner, the DIC Group pledged its support and was registered as a participating company in December 2010 for the 10 Principles and Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) which are advanced by the United Nations. The UN Global Compact (UNGC) is a voluntary action principle for companies, which was proposed in 1999 in order to achieve worldwide sustainable development. More than 8,000 companies and organizations have pledged their support based on the idea that worldwide sustainable development can be achieved if companies comply with international rules for human rights, labor, and the environment in the course of conducting business and fulfill social responsibilities. 18 Core theme Compliance Towards Fair and Transparent Corporate Activities WEB http://www.dic-global.com/en/csr/philosophy/management/compliance.html Basic Concept of Compliance We promote the establishment of the “DIC Way Code of Business Conduct” not only by holding explanatory seminars for DIC Group Compliance in the DIC Group is to not only comply with laws employees but also through e-learning. In addition, we also hold but also respond to and meet social norms and requirements by legal seminars for employees who are newly employed, promoted stakeholders, such as customers, communities, and society. and transferred overseas in order to enhance their awareness of We consider that the compliance and adherence to the “DIC compliance. Way Code of Business Conduct”, which is the unified set of The DIC Group will continue to never violate the principles set guidelines to be followed by DIC Group employees, is the basis of forth in this Code, even if such violation would appear to be compliance. We pursue actions that comply with this Code in the profitable for the DIC Group. We also respect fair social norms business activities in order to achieve sustainable growth of fair and act with social wisdom as a corporate citizen. and transparent businesses of the DIC Group. System to maintain compliance Program to Promote Compliance Compliance The DIC Group utilizes the whistle-blowing system. In case of The “DIC Way Code of Business Conduct” embodies the issues or questions regarding compliance, one can directly report principles of action based not only on compliance with laws the matter to the president, auditors, and external attorneys, etc. in every country and international rules but also on social In case of such reports, we appropriately respond to such reports norms, expectations, and requirements of each country/region according to the law while incorporating internal and external worldwide in order for the DIC Group to not only fulfill its social opinions with the aim of finding and correcting wrongful conducts, responsibilities as a corporate citizen but also accurately respond etc. in an early stage. to the values required by stakeholders worldwide, such as The DIC Group is operating globally and has established a global customers and societies, etc., and achieve sustainable growth compliance promotion system led by DIC Corporation (Japan), of the group’s businesses. DIC Group employees are required to Sun Chemical Corporation (Europe and U.S.A.), DIC (China) Co., base their decision-making for all of their duties and work-related Ltd. (China), and DIC Asia Pacific Pte Ltd. (Asia/Oceania) as the matters on this Code. core members. VOICE Employee’s voice Compliance guidelines by Sun Chemical Sun Chemical Corporation Mr. Eric Finkelman Vice President and General Counsel The Sun Chemical Group has established its own “code of business conduct and guidelines” in addition to the “DIC Way Code of Business Conduct” and thoroughly complies with these rules. All employees are required to undergo the e-learning courses and sign a letter of acknowledgement. By doing so, the group commits to enhancing and maintaining the awareness for compliance. In addition, the group also has established an ethical hotline to enable relevant parties within and outside of the Sun Chemical Group to enhance the fairness and transparency of their businesses by thoroughly executing the reports sent via this hotline. 19 BCM (Business Continuity Management) Seeking to Reduce Disaster Risks WEB http://www.dic-global.com/en/csr/philosophy/management/bcm.html BCP Promotion by the DIC Group us to quickly restore the business and fulfill the supply provision responsibility of our products to customers. We will conduct After experiencing the difficulty of raw material procurement in the training by company-wide task force based on this manual and Great East Japan Earthquake due to the damage to raw material enhance its effectiveness. manufacturers, we have further recognized the importance of In addition, we have reviewed the risk management system and BCP initiatives with more focus on the supply chain. established the Risk Management Conference as a companyTherefore, we have reevaluated the BCP for major products wide organization. We will consider measures to respond to within the group and begun considering the use of general various risks and start initiatives to conduct a series of risk products for monopoly raw materials and industrial coordination management tasks, including risk identification and emergency BCM (Business Continuity Management) for product replacement involving the Purchasing Department and responses, and risk management, which is individually conducted Technology Department. by each department, in a sectoral manner in the future with the We will further promote BCM enhancement for the DIC Group by aim of establishing an even stronger system. promoting BCP in group companies, providing BCP establishment support both in Japan, and overseas. Crisis Management Initiatives As part of crisis management, we have held media training Enhancing Group Initiatives targeting and top management. The contents were made highly Based on the problem areas, etc. that were discovered after effective by incorporating training with simulations in addition the Great East Japan Earthquake, we have completed the to a lecture regarding crisis response by an external lecturer. In emergency response manual that summarizes initial responses addition, we have also prepared a manual based on the training upon emergency. This stipulates responses upon emergency and with the aim of sharing the information. prior initiatives as it is important to quickly restore affected plants We hope to enhance our risk communication initiatives on a in order to minimize the impact to business activities, It enables regular basis and enhance the reputation in the future. VOICE Employee’s voice General Affairs and HR Dept. Assistant Manager Focusing on the establishment of the risk management system Tomohiko Hamazaki I am in charge of the office for the Risk Management Conference, which was newly established after the Great East Japan Earthquake. The conference has prepared the emergency response manual that summarizes specific responses in case of earthquakes. We are scheduled to start preparing response manuals for various risks that surround our company. After the preparation of such manuals, we will evaluate the effectiveness by conducting training and review the contents for further improvement. 20 Information Security Initiatives to Ensure Information Security WEB http://www.dic-global.com/en/csr/philosophy/management/security.html Basic Concept of Information companies. In addition, we have been promoting thorough standardization of work flows in the new enterprise system, Security by the DIC Group which is currently being introduced in each group company, with the aim of enhancing the security level, such as unifying access As a specific operation guideline for our “Confidential Information authorities, etc. Management Regulations”, which was stipulated in 2009, we have established the general “Information Management Guidelines” and “Individual Guidelines” for confidential information that Information Security Initiatives require special management in 2011. In addition, we have not only appointed “Chief Information Managers” and “Information As part of the initiatives to enhance information security, we have Managers” for each information management unit, such as thoroughly promoted internal rules by establishing guidelines business operations, etc., based on the regulation, but we have for the management and usage of information devices, such also held internal seminars for regulations and guidelines with as computers and servers, and conducted employee training Information Security the aim of enhancing the management system for information for information security at new employee training and manager security. In 2012, we will conduct internal audit in order to confirm promotion training, etc. In 2011, we not only established a the establishment status of the information security system and company-wide integrated ID authentication infrastructure confirm current issues in order to make further improvement. but also established a management system for common IDs and special authority IDs in order to enhance the system that Promotion and Enhancement of supports information security. The integrated ID authentication Information Security Response infrastructure is already utilized for usage authorization for integrated equipment and entry/exit management, etc. However, Based on the results of the current status evaluation of we will deploy it to various internal systems, such as the information security systems in each group company overseas new enterprise system, etc., in 2012. In addition, we are also conducted in 2010, we have established standard IT governance scheduled to establish system infrastructure that enables safe rules in 2011. In 2012, we will promote initiatives in preparation utilization of smartphones and Wi-Fi, etc. for the establishment of information security systems in each group company with the cooperation of regional administrative VOICE Employee’s voice Establishing an environment in which we can share Intellectual Property Dept. Senior Manager information with security Michihiro Kono DIC possesses a number of original technologies in a wide variety of domains and aims to display its total power by sharing/ combining information. In order to promote this activity in an efficient and safe manner, we must clarity the rules regarding information security and establish the environment and climate in which we can share information with security. Therefore, we have established guidelines for information management for each type of information and held sessions to provide explanations and exchange opinions in the 11 major plants. The employees’ understanding and awareness regarding information security have clearly improved. Although we still have a number of issues to overcome, I hope that the guidelines will surely be reflected to daily tasks in the future and information sharing will be activated to produce great results. 21 Main and Categorized Themes Environment, Safety, Health and Quality Toward the Achievement of a Sustainable Society WEB http://www.dic-global.com/en/csr/environment/ (Other activities based on the themes of environment, safety, health and quality are outlined in detail on the website) Basic Approaches to and Initiatives in Environment, Safety, and Quality ● Basic Stance and Main Initiatives In 1992, to preserve the environment and secure the safety and Policy for the Environhealth of people, DIC established the “Principle and Policy for ment, Safety, and Health Policy for Responsible Care Initiatives 2012 the Environment, Safety and Health.” In 1995, DIC pledged to As a responsible corporate citizen, DIC Corporation recognizes that care for the environPromote Responsible Care activiimplement the precepts of “Responsible Care” in our everyday ment, safety, and health (ESH) is fundamental to the management of the Company. DIC ties across the global network of DIC Corporation is committed to the concept of sustainable Establish a safety culture oriented operations. In January 2006, as a member of global chemical development, and contributes to society towards “zero accidents” through our continuous business harmoSet targets to reduce environmental corporations, DIC signed a declaration to support the Responsible nized with global environment, including biodiversity, and providing environmentally impact through business activities sound products and technology. and openly report performance and Care Global Charter, promising to further strive to enhance achievements Environment, Safety, Health and Quality Manage chemical substance inforthe environment, safety, and health of people. Also, in order Quality Policy mation in an appropriate manner and inform customers of their safe use to implement this policy, we prepare an annual “Policy for the Contribute to the prosperity of customSupport the redesign and restrucers and society by consistently providturing of corporate operational sysEnvironment, Safety and Quality,” and translate it into English and ing reliable products. tems Chinese in order to disseminate the policy across the entire DIC April 1, 2012 DIC Corporation Yoshiyuki Nakanishi, President Group and to promote relevant activities. FY 2012 Environment, Safety, and Quality Policy Poster DIC’s Responsible Care (RC) Promotion Structure Chart Product Task Force Responsible Care Dept. Implementation Sales Management Task Force Technical Management Task Force Top Production Management Task Force management Division audits audits Production/R&D Sales offices (plants, R&D centers) Environment, Internal branch (sales divisions, safety, and quality and sales branches) Person in charge Environment/Saf audits for plants office audits of responsible ety/Quality care Group DIC’s Responsible Care (RC) Promotion Structure Chart Responsible Care, Audit and Support Structure As of April 1, 2012, DIC is utilizing a new Responsible Care (RC) Promotion Structure Chart as a basis for its continuing activities. *See the following page for details: WEB http://www.dic-global.com/en/csr/environment/responsible.html 22 DIC Group Performance ● Overview of Environmental Impact Generated by Our Business Activities The following is a broad overview of the environmental impact generated by the domestic DIC Group’s business activities in FY 2011. DIC Group (Domestic) Energy consumption (crude oil equivalent) For details, see Total water consumption * Production volume Year-on-year Year-on-year ,000m3 * Renewable energy is not included in the above figures Emissions into the air Emissions into water Emissions into soil CO2 emissions NOx emissions Total emissions Year-on-year Amount of industrial waste disposed For details, see For details, see of as landfill ,000m3 For details, see Year-on-year Year-on-year Year-on-year ,000t ,000t COD emissions into wastewater For details, see Year-on-year Amount of atmospheric emissions of the 567 substances (and 1 substance group) targeted substance SOx emissions Amount of atmospheric emissions of the 567 substances (and 1 substance group) For details, see For details, see Amount of atmospheric emissions of the 567 For details, see targeted substance substances (and 1 substance group) Year-on-year Year-on-year targeted substance Year-on-year Environment, Safety, Health and Quality Production DIC Group (Overseas) Energy Consumption (crude oil equivalent) volume Emissions into the air Emissions into soil ,000t Amount of industrial waste CO2 emissions ,000t disposed of as landfill * See the following page for more information about the scope of the report: WEB http://www.dic-global.com/en/csr/pdf/dic_csr_scope_ja_2012.pdf * Overseas data includes that from January 2011 to December 2011 CO2 Emissions and Changes in Energy Consumption Index Initiatives Related to the Climate Change Problem (Thousands of tons) (Energy consumption index) ● Efforts to Reduce CO 2 Emissions The DIC Group is working to meet its FY 2020 CO 2 emissions reduction targets established in FY 2010 that use FY 2005 as the (FY) base year. (Base year) DIC CO2 emissions (left axis) DIC + domestic affiliate CO2 emissions (left axis) DIC energy consumption index (right axis) ● Energy-Saving Activities Energy Consumption (Crude Oil Equivalent) and Energy Consumption Index As part of initiatives to conserve energy, we have (1) promoted (Thousands of kL) visualization of energy use, (2) performed energy-conservation (Energy consumption index) checks at offices, and (3) utilized bridge charts to analyze the Target gor 2012 worsening energy consumption rate per unit of production. ● Undertaking of Initiatives (FY) (Base year) Along with energy-saving and CO 2 -reduction measures, we DIC energy consumption(crude oil equivalent) (left axis) DIC + domestic affiliate energy consumption(crude oil equivalent) (left axis) implemented “cool biz” and “warm biz” energy-saving campaigns DIC energy consumption index (right axis) Target energy consumption index per unit production (right axis) as our main initiatives in FY 2011. 23 Atmospheric Emissions of Substances Checked Reducing Emissions of Chemicals (567 substances including PRTR-designated substances and 1 substance group) DIC into the Environment An increase of 1% 324t Total emissions into the air 310t (4 tons) Emissions into water 14t as compared with the ● Initiatives to Reduce Emissions into the Environment of Emissions into soil: 0t previous year Substances Targeted for Study* DIC Group companies (Domestic) A decrease of 24% 750t Total emissions into the air 736t (239 tons) In FY 2011, the domestic DIC Group was able to meet its targets Emissions into water 14t as compared with the previous year for volumes of emissions into the environment by repairing Emissions into soil: 0t malfunctioning VOC combustion equipment, ensuring the proper operations of other required equipment, and other such measures. Changes in Atmospheric Emissions (VOCs) of Substances Checked (567 substances including PRTR-designated substances and 1 substance group) Reducing Environmental Impact on the Air, Water and Soil Target for 2012 ● Addressing VOC Regulations DIC succeeded in its policy, initiated in FY 2007, of “reduction of atmospheric VOC emissions by 30% by FY 2010 using FY 2000 (Base year) (FY) DIC DIC + domestic affiliates as the base year” as a voluntary emissions reduction target to limit the emission of VOCs. Environment, Safety, Health and Quality COD Emission Volumes ● Soil and Groundwater Pollution Studies The Water Pollution Prevention Act was revised in 2012. DIC is already engaged in the testing of, and creation of measures against, soil and groundwater pollution in accordance with the Soil Contamination Countermeasures Act and similar legislation, (FY) and we sufficiently evaluate risks to safety and the environment. (Base year) DIC DIC + domestic affiliates ● Reducing SOx, NOx and COD SOx and NOx Emission Volumes The DIC Group is striving to reduce SOx, NOx and COD through review of fuel sources for boiler equipment, proper management of wastewater processing and other such measures. ● Compliance with Regulations for Dioxin Emissions (FY) (Base year) At all of our six facilities, we have achieved results far below SOx emission volume: DIC DIC + domestic affiliates NOx emission volume: DIC DIC + domestic affiliates the standards specified in the Act on Special Measures against Dioxins. Changes in Amounts of Industrial Waste Sent to Landfills Reduction of Industrial Waste ● DIC Group Initiatives to Reduce Industrial Waste DIC began zero-emission activities in FY 2011, and domestic Group companies are taking measures to reduce amounts of Target for 2012 industrial waste sent to off-site landfills. (FY) (Base year) DIC DIC + domestic affiliates * For details on substances checked, see the following page: WEB http://www.dic-global.com/en/csr/environment 24 Occupational Safety and Health ● Risk and Hazard Assessment and Initiatives Initiatives Aiming to achieve safety and reliability, as a chemical material manufacturer, DIC conducts environmental assessments while ● Basic Approach to Ensuring Occupational Safety and Health promoting the development of recyclable, safer, energy-saving As an active member of society, the DIC Group recognizes that products with less hazardous substances and less waste. ensuring proper consideration of safety, the environment and health Seeking to build safe production facilities, we have established form the foundation of our operations, and we make every effort to the DIC Risk Assessment Guidelines for Mechanical Equipment incorporate this into all business activities in the following ways: and utilize them at our business offices. When formulating facility ・Undertaking Responsible Care activities as part of overall Group investment plans and renovating existing facilities, we use the activities PSM (process safety management)*1 risk assessment method. ・Striving to firmly establish a safe corporate environment with the We also provide educational programs regularly to our employees goal of “zero accidents” concerning the safety and handling of chemicals by utilizing DIC Based on this fundamental approach, we strive to ensure basic safety actions, safety guidelines for technology and research occupational safety and health. departments, SDS, accident case studies and other resources. ● Summary of the Status of Occupational Injuries ● Our Measures in Distribution There were three cases of occupational injury resulting in To cope with emergencies while transporting chemicals, we employee absence from work in FY 2011 at DIC (one case in FY provide Yellow Cards* 2—not only to freight-exclusive vehicles Environment, Safety, Health and Quality 2010), and there were nine case within the domestic DIC Group such as containers and tank trucks, but also to general freight (also nine cases in FY 2010). vehicles which carry mixed loads. For the transportation of DIC Although there was a declining trend in the number of accidents products, we use special containers that comply with transportcompared with the previous year, a similar decline was not seen in related regulations such as the Fire Defense Law and United the number of accidents resulting in employee absence. The DIC Nations Standards. Group is endeavoring to enhance its safety management activities *1 Process safet y management: Risk management to minimize accidents (and the in order to further reduce the number of accidents resulting in impact thereof ) caused by factors in a process (plant). *2 Yellow Card: Relative to a voluntar y activit y promoted by the Japan Chemic al employee absence. Indust r y A s soc iat i on (J CI A). T his c ar d indic ates c ont ac t infor mat i on and t he appropriate actions to be taken at the time of an accident during the transportation of chemicals for carriers, firefighters and police officers. All carriers of chemicals are obligated to carry this card. Kashima Plant makes great strides in environmental measures and cost reductions Topics through introduction of ultra-high-efficiency wastewater treatment equipment With the goal of bolstering wastewater treatment facilities at the Kashima Plant, DIC installed one anaerobic wastewater treatment device (BIOIMPACT® system manufactured by Sumitomo Heavy Industries Environment Co., Ltd.) and is making progress in wastewater treatment capabilities and enhanced energy savings. Chemical treatment of water generally utilizes activated sludge*, which requires oxygen, for an aerobic treatment method that breaks organic components down into carbonic gas and water. However, this newly installed BIOIMPACT equipment utilizes a speedy anaerobic treatment method (granular method) recently developed for practical application, which quickly breaks organic components in the wastewater down into methane gas and carbon dioxide (CO2) in a tank containing high concentrations of anaerobic (not requiring oxygen) “granular” bacteria. This revolutionary wastewater treatment system is garnering much attention for its reuse of the methane gas generated in plant operations, which help achieve high efficiency, as well as for its contributions to reduced space and energy use, among other benefits. At the Kashima Plant, this system is expected to bring about annual CO 2 reductions of 720 tons as well as major decreases in operating costs. Kashima Plant “BIOIMPACT” anaerobic wastewater treatment system *1 Activated sludge: A biomass comprised primarily of artificially cultured aerobic microorganisms. 25 Activities at Business Responsible Care Program at DIC Group Offices Offices The DIC Group is conducting Responsible Care programs globally. Various efforts such as ensuring production safety, energy conservation and CO2 reductions are promoted at each plant in the DIC Group. Activities for Safety Improvement of Overseas Environment and Safety System DIC Asia Pacific Pte Ltd. (operating subsidiary with locations in Indonesia and elsewhere) The third Asia/Pacific Regional Safety Meeting (ASEAN ESH Meeting) for affiliates in Asia and Oceania was held in Jakarta, Indonesia for two days in February 2012. Participants included subsidiary manufacturing companies in the Asia/Oceania region, the headquarters RC Department and CSR representatives for a total of 14 companies. Along with sharing of occupational safety and health policies of the DIC Group, each company shared best practice examples with others present at the meeting. In addition, visits were made Environment, Safety, Health and Quality to three plants in Indonesia, and all participants shared opinions on various topics on-site in ASEAN ESH Meeting pursuit of improvements at their own companies. Overcoming Challenges Related to Information Visibility DIC Kyushu Polymer Co., Ltd. (Japan) DIC Kyushu Polymer manufactures synthetic resins and supplies them mainly to customers in western Japan. Starting in FY 2010, the Company organized and introduced case examples from other companies and improved the visibility of information through displays and similar measures, successfully changing their ways of thinking regarding safety and quality. As a result, the Company thoroughly implemented the “5S” workplace organization method in order to prevent misunderstandings, and combined this with measures such as complete Visible information board elimination of dangerous tasks and places, and promotion of danger-prediction activities in order to achieve safe workplaces free from accidents, problems, etc. From FY 2011 to present, 1,500 product lots have been successfully classified as A-grade, and measures taken have not only had a positive effect on safety, but have also helped improve quality, creating a synergistic effect. Plant main entrance Moving forward, the Company strives to further develop true visualization of information (sharing of problematic points, etc.) to achieve a plant environment that will be perceived as clean and safe by everyone. VOICE Employee’s voice Tetsuya Morita Active Hands-on Safety Training to Help Employees Experience Manager, Environment, Safety and Quality Group Komaki Plant Are you aware of the dangers posed by the machines you operate on a regular basis? Do you know if these machines have fail-safes installed, and whether or not these fail-safes are functioning properly? What would you do to prevent yourself and coworkers from falling victim to accidents? What areas in particular should you pay attention to? At the Suita Plant, hands-on safety training was started as a way to help employees experience these issues using their whole bodies while confirming and think about the above topics. By making use of this training equipment, starting in FY 2012 we have been implementing mobile hands-on safety training at production sites throughout Japan. In FY 2011, we cultivated hands-on safety training instructors: candidates for these positions were gathered from various plants around the country, and because they all displayed high levels of Experiencing a motor’s rotary force firsthand awareness we are confident that they can provide effective safety training. 26 Activities for Environmental Preservation Reducing Thermal Energy and Electric Power Consumption DIC Australia Pty Ltd. DIC New Zealand Ltd. At DIC Australia Pty Ltd. and DIC New Zealand Ltd., continual efforts are being made in accordance with CSR policy to reduce environmental impact through reduction of waste, improvements in energy efficiency during manufacturing operations and decreased energy use at all business locations. Targets and action plans are set for each year, and information on levels of progress and issues are shared at management conferences held each quarter in order to Environment, Safety, Health and Quality achieve planned goals. Specific examples of measures taken include recycling of cardboard, plastic and metal containers, and a service providing solvent refills for containers collected from customers. In addition, timers are being installed on hot water tanks and other mixing equipment to control operating time, lighting is being reduced in a way that does not affect resulting workplace Promoting energy savings through use of maintenance sheets brightness, and other such energy-reduction measures are being carried out. CSR Promotion and Biomass Boiler Usage DIC (China) Co., Ltd. DIC (China) Co., Ltd. was selected to receive the 2011 GoldenBee CSR China Ranking “Ecological Civilization Award” at the 7th CSR International Forum hosted by the WTO Tribune*. In the GoldenBee CSR China Ranking, companies with outstanding CSR performance are selected as “GoldenBee” companies and presented with an award utilizing the honey bee symbol, which represents “social harmony” in China. The Company was chosen because of its high evaluations in questionnaire surveys on CSR activities they reported, and also because of high ratings for their carbon-neutral biomass boilers utilizing waste wood as fuel, which are used by Deqing DIC Synthetic Resins (a manufacturer of hard resin used in ink) as steam boilers for heating and heat-retention of rosin and other raw materials as well as for production-line heating. The Ecological Civilization Award * A monthly economic magazine put out by Chinese Ministry of Commerce (equivalent to the Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry in Japan). Initiatives Toward Acquisition of an Environmental and Occupational Safety Management System DIC Pakistan Ltd. DIC Pakistan Ltd. set the target of becoming a “safe and environmentally friendly company” as its management policy, and in the first quarter of FY 2011 the Company kicked off a project to acquire two types of management systems. The project was implemented in three stages: DIC Pakistan introduced ISO 14001:2004 during the first stage, completed introduction of OHSAS 18001:2007 during the second stage, and during the third and final stage pursued integration of the two management system standards, achieving certification under both on May 16, 2012. Moving forward, the Company plans to further utilize its extant ISO 9001:2008 system standards, environmental and occupational safety management system and similar systems to reduce operating risk and contribute to sustainable development in society. Project team 27 Chemical Substances Management Initiatives ● System for Accurate Provision of Information ● Compliance and Employee Education with Overseas Designed by DIC, the proprietary Chemical Substance Information Regulations. Comprehensive Management System—or CIRIUS—is used to We quickly acquire information on the latest changes in overseas help us comprehensively manage information about chemical regulations and provide summaries to relevant departments, substances for our raw materials and products. CIRIUS is also provide information on the impact they will have on the Company, used to file the numbers of chemical substances manufactured, and take action as appropriate. We also carry out general imported and shipped as mandated by Export Trade Control education on overseas regulations for employees who are Order, the revised Chemical Substance Substances Control Law (a scheduled to work in other countries. law concerning regulations for the inspection, manufacture, etc., In addition, DIC has implemented an internal licensing program for of chemical substances), and so forth. imports and exports to ensure compliance. Through this program, The system checks domestic legal regulations while creating and only employees who have passed DIC licensing tests can engage providing consistent and highly reliable SDS. in import and export work. Quality Management Initiatives ● DIC’s Customer-First Flowchart Environment, Safety, Health and Quality Requests from customers/market and society Part visible to Information from customer Contract / delivery specifications COA (certificate of analysis) DIC website customers Requirements Output from DIC Labeling Customer consultation information SDS SDS Packaging Technical service Products Technical Sample for Catalog documents evaluation test Product Quality validation DIC customer satisfaction realization Sales strategies Contents/composition Container / mode of packing Consideration of environment Workability and convenience in handling Quality assurance Disposal after use Design review Product evaluation Production / Requests for improvement Planning and proposals Validation Trial production quality Products Requests for cost reduction system Design and Safety level of raw materials Control of changes Mass trial production confirmation Dealing with customer information development Conformity to laws and regulations Top management diagnosis / internal audit Productivity and capacity Market requirements Marketing Safety and stability of processes Production Self-regulation of industry Costs / stable supply Business activities of DIC to deliver high-quality products that are safe and reliable ● Primary Quality Initiatives 1 We made sincere efforts to listen to customer comments and to logically uncover the causes of those problems. opinions and share them with manufacturing, sales, technical 3 At the DIC Hokuriku plant, we have introduced a and quality assurance departments. By incorporating this management system that uses barcodes for the information in quality improvement efforts, the number management of raw materials and manufacturing of customer complaints declined 22% from FY 2010. processes. Through this management system, we are 2 As part of efforts to take precise countermeasures making even further improvements to product quality. and prevent reoccurrence of problems, the DIC 4 All business locations of DIC Graphics Corporation have group has begun applying “‘Why-Why‘ Analysis”* been unified through acquisition of ISO 9001 certification. * “‘Why-Why‘ Analysis”: A method of repeatedly asking “why” to avoid jumping to conclusions about the factors of a problem and to ensure the logical and complete identification of factors in order to prevent problem recurrence. 28 Human Resources Management Striving to Improve Job Satisfaction WEB http://www.dic-global.com/en/csr/stakeholder/staff.html develop the next generation of top management, etc. We have Goal of the DIC Group Human also been making efforts in creating a database for national staff Resources Management human resources and establishing systematic training programs, DIC proactively makes efforts to respect the work life balance etc. of each and every employee and create a workplace that can provide job satisfaction with the aim of becoming a company in ● Providing More Opportunities for Female Employees which all employees can exercise their full potential in jobs suited DIS is working on women's working opportunities promotion to their abilities. activities eagerly so that they can exercise their full potential. First, we have been continuing to establish work systems to Respect for Human Rights support “work and childcare balance” and providing management Human Resources Management The DIC Group clearly states to remove all human rights training for management positions infringement in corporate activities and to respect diversity in the as part of the efforts to establish a “DIC WAY Code of Business Conduct” and promotes business sound workplace environment and activities based on this philosophy. The group proactively holds provide individual support to help dialogues with external stakeholders and held the “Stakeholder female employees expand their Dialogue” on human rights/labor practice in 2012. work opportunities. As a result, the number of female employees who Pursuing Deeper Trust between become qualified as candidates for Labor and Management management positions has certainly We make efforts in cultivating trust based on dialogues, such as been increasing. DIC will continue labor-management councils and casual management conferences, to promote female employees’ etc. with the aim of maintaining/improving healthy relationship working opportunities in the future. with labor unions. Furthermore, we make efforts in sharing In addition, we have also been management information and visions in the labor-management employing female new graduates councils and exchange honest opinions with labor unions. constantly. (Female ratio among Female employees working hard at the the college graduate employees in manufacturing site in the Saitama Plant Diversity 2011: 35.7%) ● Development and Employment of Global Human Resources The DIC Group has been establishing a system that enables us to ● Promotion of Employment of Persons with Handicaps develop staff for global management and employ human resources The employment rate for persons with handicaps at the end of regardless of their nationalities. Specifically, we have been 2011 was 2.1%, which is over the 1.8% of the legally required promoting it in group companies in Southeast Asia in steps. These employment rate in Japan. We will make further efforts to enhance steps include the deployment of the human resources system for the retention rate by streamlining the workplace environment and local employees, which had already been introduced in our group proactively promote the enhancement of the workplace in which companies in China, and provision of management training to persons with handicaps can work. 29 Number of Childcare Leave Program Participants (Number of participants) (Year) ● Promotion of Re-employment Work and Childcare Balance Support Program According to the Law Concerning Stabilization of Employment Regarding Childcare Leave Program, the maximum Childcare Leave length of leaves is “until the child becomes 2 years of Older Person, DIC has not only established the system that and 6 months old”, which is 1 year more than the legal Program enables us to re-employ those up to 65 years old but also requirement. been making efforts to secure re-employment opportunities by Rules concerning returning The rule specifies that the person will return to her also utilizing work sharing. With this system, re-employment to one’s previous (or original (or equivalent) position after leave. equivalent) position employees have been utilizing their previous experiences and exercising great skills and expertise that they have cultivated. For the period between a child's birth and the following 8 weeks, a male employee can take childcare leave Childcare While ● Mental Health of up to 5 days with the aim of creating an opportunity Working Program for a male employee to participate in childcare as a DIC proactively promotes mental health management with the aim partner in childcare. of establishing a workplace in which all employees can exercise Human Resources Management Establishment The system allows an employee on childcare leave their full potential. We conduct periodical self-checks for each of the Economic without pay to borrow part of her bonus. employee to comprehend their mental health and provide selfSupport System management training and line care training. In addition, we have There is an internal loan system to resolve financial been establishing internal systems in the DIC Group in Japan concerns in case of large expenses for infertility Information sharing treatment or childcare facility, etc. even including the provision of appropriate leaves, support for to promote program The website in which DIC’s concept on work and smoothly returning to work, and prevention of recurrence in case participation childcare balance and the summary and usage of various systems are clearly explained can be found on employees require recovery. our intranet. Initiatives to Achieve Work-Life Balance Acquisition of the “Kurumin” Mark DIC’s “Work and Childcare Balance Support Program” in Japan DIC is acknowledged as ”FY 2008 Ac c r e dite d Emp l oyer s” by t he stipulates a system that more than satisfies legal requirements Ministr y of Health, Labour and Welfare, as a company that actively with flexible work styles, such as childcare leaves, various drives the Measures to Support leaves, and short working hours. We continue to make various t h e D e v e l o p m e n t o f t h e N ex t Generation. improvements in the operation so that they can be easily utilized according to each employee’s situation. VOICE Employee’s voice DIC (Taiwan) Ltd. Sales Dept. 1 Manager Experiencing the responsibility as a global company in the field Hsin-Fang Chang For 2 months from October, 2011, I took training in Japan, on not only liquid crystal-related work but also pigments and functional polymers. Furthermore, I also studied patent-related information and flow of application. Since I had only been involved in sales activities for liquid crystal, I was able to expand my perspectives with the knowledge of various fields. Not only that, but I was also able to experience the rapid changes of the market, strengths of competitors, harshness of raw material and production costs, and the difficulty each department faces in response. Since DIC deploys various products on a global scale, I especially felt the importance of communication with each department of each region. 30 In addition, we have been operating the system, in which an treatment, DIC has completely unified the qualification system employee can select the course depending on relocation in the regardless of the job type or education. For promotion selection human resources system for general employees, since 2002. for employee qualification, fair selection opportunities are given to We have newly established the “relocation limiting system for all employees with motivation and skills by conducting selection management positions” in 2012 for people in management tests based on objective standards. positions can also achieve work and life balance. In addition, we also consider it impor tant for skills and performance exercised by each person to be appropriately evaluated and reflected in a timely manner for their job Employment/development of satisfaction. Due to such perspectives, the HR evaluation system Human Resources has introduced a system based on “management by objective (MBO)”. Reflection of more transparent and legitimate evaluation ● Training System results on the treatment is made possible by employing the Human Resources Management DIC promotes the enhancement of global human resources system in which the evaluation results, including the reasons, are development. In terms of Off-JT, we have started holding provided to individuals as feedback. training for young employees with the aim of cultivating global Overall image of the HR evaluation system minds, understanding of different cultures, mental toughness, and English/Chinese learning. In addition, we have also newly Feedback Semiannual evaluation Annual evaluation introduced open-style area studies and global management Superior Results Bonus training. In terms of OJT, we have increased the number of evaluation Execution of duties Setting of Setting of Interview overseas trainees from Japan to overseas group companies. Salary division Process individual targets Additionally we introduced the Reverse Trainee System, in which targets evaluation Promotion overseas group employees come to Japan in order to develop practical global human resources. Individual Carrier development Skills development sheet Appropriate appointment ● Performance-Based Employee Qualification System and Fair Treatment → parts are implemented on the intranet In order to enable all employees to exercise their full potential Target setting, evaluation, feedback, and preparation of the career development sheet are implemented on the intranet. in jobs suited to their abilities and to fairly reflect this on their VOICE Employee’s voice Fine Synthesis Technical Department Experiencing the speed of China business as an overseas trainee Kenzo Takeishi I experienced being an overseas trainee for 1 year from February, 2011 in Guangzhou DIC International Co., Ltd. During my stay, I spent a lot of time with local staff and experienced various tasks, such as responding to customers, logistics-related tasks, and responding to chemical substance-related laws and regulations, etc. In particular it was truly rewarding for me to be able to directly experience the speed of China businesses in the course of my stay. On the other hand, I struggled with the Chinese language outside of work. Chinese language focuses on tones, and people would not understand you if you make even the slightest mistake. It was very beneficial that I was able to receive instructions in the course of daily conversations. I still continue the studies after my return to Japan. 31 Supply Chain Management Globally Expanding CSR Procurement WEB http://www.dic-global.com/en/csr/stakeholder/partner.html Basic Concept of Supply Chain Supply and Flexible Responses to Changes>, <VIII. Contributions to Communities/Society>, and <IX. Promotion of CSR and Its Management by the DIC Group Application in the Supply Chain>. Af ter this, we have visited some of the supplier s and We consider that the CSR of DIC Group supply chain is promoted communicated the evaluation results of each item and evaluation by each supplier fulfilling our CSR Procurement Guidelines. by DIC and unified the decision-making standards of each The CSR Procurement Guidelines of the DIC Group consist of other. Furthermore, we deepened our mutual understanding by 9 items, including <I. Compliance with Laws/Social Norms>, introducing the CSR initiatives by the DIC Group. In the future, we <II. Respect for Human Rights and Consideration for Working will request them to promote initiatives with the focus on the items Environment>, <III. Promotion of Healthy Business Management>, with low evaluations in the studies by visit. We will also request <IV. Consideration for the Environment>, <V. Information new suppliers to conduct questionnaire studies. We are scheduled Security>, <VI. Appropriate Quality/Improvement of Safety and to explain the CSR procurement to Southeast Asian affiliates as Technologies>, <VII. Stable Supply and Flexible Responses to Supply Chain Management part of overseas initiatives. Changes>, <VIII. Contributions to Communities/Society>, and <IX. Promotion of CSR and Its Application in the Supply Chain>. Based on this, we conduct questionnaire studies for guideline Updating the “DIC Group achievement status and studies by visit to deepen the mutual Supply-Chain CSR Deployment understanding. Guidebook” CSR Activity Status Studies Upon the studies by visits with suppliers, we received a number of opinions regarding the “DIC Group Supply-Chain CSR Based on the “DIC Group Supply-Chain CSR Deployment Deployment Guidebook” questionnaire studies, such as “Indication Guidebook”, we have conducted questionnaire studies with of evaluation is difficult because the responding internal suppliers for 2 years regarding the compliance status of our CSR organization is not clear” and “It is unclear how long ‘confirmation Procurement Guidelines. We have received questionnaire replies by periodical studies’ is referring to”, etc. We felt the necessity to from approximately 350 companies, which are over 90% of the prepare a section for suppliers’ comments, etc. in order to deepen purchasing amount. In the questionnaire, they evaluated their own the mutual understanding through questionnaire studies. In the status for each guideline on a scale of 3. The average value was future, we will consider the entry method/study contents, etc. and 2.6. Items with low self-evaluation results included <VII. Stable update the guidebook. COMMENT Stakeholder’s voice Kyoeisha Chemical Co., Ltd. We contribute to CSR based on the philosophy of Quality Assurance Dept. Manager “mutually prosperous relationship” Yasuhide Hirota After listening to the CSR activities by the DIC Group, we have re-acknowledged the fact that they are promoting enlightenment activities to all stakeholders. We have also realized that the efforts toward “mutually prosperous relationship”, which we have been promoting for a long time, are part of the CSR activities and made the decision to further enhance our activities. We will review the 9 items that we should follow as a supplier again and promote activities in order to fulfill our social responsibilities. 32 Theme to Display Originality Business Models to Improve Customer Satisfaction Establishing a Solutions Business WEB http://www.dic-global.com/en/csr/stakeholder/customer/satisfaction.html Customer Satisfaction Striven for 2012. As a result, we have become a matrix type organization containing a sales organization covering each focus market by the DIC Group and a product division that leads product strategies with global The solution business striven for by the DIC Group is to combine perspectives. multiple products and technologies and propose total solutions Since the sales organization now covers a wide range, we can for customers’ concerns. We think we can enhance customer now respond to customers’ concerns with integrated products and satisfaction for the DIC Group by developing this solution technologies rather than with individual products as we used to. business. In addition, we also aim to establish a system that In addition, we also think that we will be able to make proposals enables us to make quick responses to changes in market needs involving processes and equipment as necessary so that our Business Models to Improve Customer Satisfaction by activating marketing activities for each focus market. customers will be able to fully utilize the integrated products and technologies. Organizational Changes to Establish a Solution Business Marketing Activities by DIC DIC had employed the product-specific divisional system, so The DIC Group also proactively promotes marketing activities we were not able to sufficiently capture the needs of the market based on company-wide perspectives. We make efforts in or overall society. In order to overcome such issues, we have enhancing the DIC brand values through comprehensive completely discontinued the product-specific divisional system introductory activities utilizing tools and opportunities, such as and have been making drastic organizational changes since product guidebooks, technology exchanges, and external shows, etc. On the other hand, we also focus on activities to anticipate the Existing Organization starting Newly organizations Business Operation on April 1 established needs of the overall society, such as social requirements and Product Division Newly Business Div. established market changes, etc. We select specific themes and consider Sales Administrative Division turning them into businesses by comparing needs information Technical Technical gained through these activities and possibilities of the internal Administrative Division Administrative Division technologies. Through such activities, we not only “propose Production Production Administrative Division Administrative Division Color & Comfort by Chemistry” to respond to social requirements but also contribute to achieving a society with sustainable development. VOICE Employee’s voice Advanced Technology Marketing Dept. Manager We strive for comprehensive initiatives Mariko Okihama DIC possesses products and technologies covering quite a large range, and it is a manufacturer with the potential to turn customers into DIC fans. I think the key to this is to make accurate proposals with speed for objects and matters that customers need and to try to solve issues together with them. In 2010, we held lectures every month by inviting customers from various demand industries as lecturers to discuss what customers in each industry strive for and what they expect from DIC. Now that we have organizations for each demand industry, customers’ industries and DIC organizations can integrate with each other. Not only that DIC is starting to make proposals with depth, but customers are also starting to see the advantages in dealing with DIC. I think we will be able to further deepen proposals that sensitively capture industry trends in the future. 33 New Technology Development and Value Creation Proposing Solutions Utilizing Elemental Technologies WEB http://www.dic-global.com/en/csr/technology_development.html What We Pursue in the Themes for New Technology Development and Value Creation The DIC Group proactively promotes the development of next generation products and new technologies that lead to sustainable growth and makes efforts in the development of high value added products by utilizing various elemental technologies, such as chemical structure design and dispersion, etc., based on synthetic resins and organic pigments, which are core materials. We focus on various domains, such as highperformance hybrid products, new materials/new high-performance materials, display/electronics, new energies, and life science, through integration of company-wide technical resources with the aim of developing new products/technologies that are original and competitive. Correlation Diagram of Elemental Technologies New Technology Development and Value Creation Rheology Chemical structure design Synthetic resins Organic pigments New materials/high-performance material Elemental Cultivation/ Dispersion technologies Adhesion Display/electronics hybridization of DIC New energies Life science Coloring/decoration Molding/filming Specific efforts We are making efforts in developing water-based and solvent-less materials as well as various environment-conscious products which can be utilized to create products with consideration for the environment in various fields, such as printing, electronic/electric products, automobiles, and housing equipment, etc. that use our products. ● Various inks printing of food packaging, such as bread, etc. Sun Chemical has With printing inks, we have developed offset ink in which printability has developed various new products, such as sheet-feed printing inks and been greatly improved by combining the elemental technologies of resin oxygen-barrier coatings, mainly for food packaging. design/pigment surface process/ink combination. With inkjet inks, we have been developing not only water-based pigments but also UV curable products for industrial use. With gravure inks, we have improved the gloss and adherence on films, which had ● Solar Batteries related products been the issue for urethane inks In terms of solar batteries related products, we have developed weatherthat excel in reducing solvent resistant and low-pollution UV curable Multi-Function-Glass Resin for residue and recreating photoprotection coating material for front sheet and back sheet adhesive like prints, used in obverse resin, which excels in humidity and heat-resistance. Sun Chemical also 34 provides etching resist, etc. Promotion of environmentconscious products We will strive to develop new products and technologies that ● Display/electronics contribute to the society and increase the ratios of environmentProducts conscious products with a great awareness for environmental With LCD panel-related consideration. We will reduce the usage of toxic substances, products, we have equipped the mass production system for TFT LCs promote the usage of products with less toxicity, and promote the for large panels for TVs, etc. With organic pigments, we are focusing on development of recyclable products and production processes improving the performance of products for color filters. The brightening with considerations to energy conservation with enhanced safety New Technology Development and Value Creation of pigments contributes to the reduction of electricity consumption and less waste, etc. Furthermore, we will continue to conduct for backlighting. In addition, we have also developed a double-sided environmental assessment and observe the trends for legal adhesive tape with thermal conductivity to be used to release heat from requirements and environmental measures throughout the world LCD TVs with LED backlighting. In addition to its heat releasing function, in order to continue designing products that comply with chemical it can also be handled more easily compared to the existing screws. substance regulations in each country. With epoxy resins, which are used to seal semiconductors or as materials for PC boards, we have continually been introducing various differentiated products that are environment-conscious, such as halogen-free products, Efforts for Future Issues in the market in order to respond to customer needs in detail. In 2012, we will further enhance our coordination with domestic In addition, we have also been promoting the development of products in and overseas group companies and promote technical the field of printed electronics*, such as coated transparent conductive hybridization with the perspective of global deployment. We will f ilm and leveling agent for also enhance our awareness for sustainability. We will consider ultrafine coating with the unified the LCA (life cycle assessment), through which we consider entire coating thickness of a nanolifecycles of our group’s products becoming final products and level, etc. being used, recycled, and disposed of through our customers. We will also make proactive efforts in identifying risks in the raw material supply chain and the technical responses toward this * Printed electronics: They are attracting a lot of attentions due to the perspectives in order to provide our products to the market in a continual and of mass production, cost reduction, and environmental consideration, etc. as the “next generation manufacturing process” to create electronic circuits with printing stable manner. technologies. VOICE Employee’s voice Polymer Technical Group 1 About Developing UV Curable Type Multi-Function-Glass Resin Koji Uemura The MFG (Multi-Function-Glass Resin) that we have developed is UV curable resin with the durability that is unique to nonorganic materials and suitability for painting that is unique to organic materials. Since MFG coating displays a self-cleaning property in which dirt is naturally removed with rain and water when used outdoors, it is ideal as a plastic coating material used outdoors, such as front sheet for solar batteries and various plastic parts for automobiles, etc. We are making proactive efforts to expand the usage as a superior environment-conscious product. 35 Harmony with the Community and Contribution to Society For Colorful and Comfortable Lifestyles WEB http://www.dic-global.com/en/csr/society/ Concept of Social Contribution by the DIC Group Based on the Guidelines for Social Contribution Actiivities, which was stipulated in 2009. The DIC Group promotes activities with the focus on establishing a healthy relationship with the society Guidelines for Social Contribution Activities The DIC Group, based on its Management Vision: Color & Comfort by Chemistry will engage in social contribution activities in Harmony with the Community and Contribution to Society the three areas of business activities, culture and education, and communities and society WEB http://www.dic-global.com/en/csr/society/guideline.html Highlights of Social Contribution Activities ● Initiatives Toward Color Coordination that is Harmonious For the project, DIC Color Design proposed color schemes with Landscape that simultaneously achieve functionality and harmony with Development and Evaluation of New Tactile Paving Aimed surrounding environments and cooperated in color selections at Low-vision People for the prototype samples. We have been repeating evaluation The DIC Group promotes the development of colors and color experiments by trial subjects and promoting the project for combinations that can be recognized equally by as many people practical usage. as possible. ● Harmony with Society through Spirulina Tactile pavement that indicate safe walking paths are considered The DIC Group has concluded a support agreement with ideal to have a clear contrast with the road by using highly visible the Alliance Forum Foundation, which is active in supporting yellow color. However, urban landscape designers often feel developing countries, with “Spirulina Project”, to eradicate hunger the color too vivid that does not harmonize with the surrounding and improve nutrition promoted in Africa by the foundation. environment. Therefore, it is required to develop guide blocks that In the Republic of Zambia, which is where the support is provided, simultaneously fulfill safety and aesthetical requirements. we have been working with local NGO organizations actively Associate Professor Kei Ito of the Institute of Molecular and in the area to improve nutrition through Spirulina rationing to Cellular Biosciences at the University of Tokyo has been educational facilities since May, 2011. Furthermore, we have attempting to use two different colors for guide blocks as a acquired the permission to execute the project to measure the countermeasure to this issue. By using low intensity color for impact of the Spirulina supplies from the Zambian government in the base part and Febr uar y, 2012. We pale yellow for the have started the efforts protrusions, the new to improve the chronic blocks would not violate growth deficiency of 1 the landscape while to 3-year old children securing both visibility (a p p r ox i m at e l y 6 0 and sign property. Braille Guide Blocks children) in the village of Support for the “Spirulina Project” 36 Kawamura Memorial DIC Museum of Art Kanakantapa in cooperation with local volunteers since June, 2012. Biodiversity Center was established in the break area in the vast DIC LIFETEC Co., Ltd. has also provided Spirulina tablet packages garden operated by the museum. The satellite displays panels with high amounts of vitamins and minerals through the pharmacists communicating the importance of biodiversity as well as leaflets. associations of Miyagi and Fukushima and NPO to support the health of those affected in the Great East Japan Earthquake. ● Lab Lessons In response to children moving away from science, which has ● Kawamura Memorial DIC Museum of Art become a social issue, DIC provides lab lessons to public DIC operates Kawamura Memorial DIC Museum of Art in elementary schools with the aim of enabling them to experience Sakura, Chiba as part of the CSR activities. May of 2012 marked Harmony with the Community and Contribution to Society that “science classes are closely connected to life”. the museum’s 22nd anniversary, and the museum exhibits These lessons with the title of “Making Life Colorful through approximately 1,000 internal artworks including impressionist art, Science” utilize the characteristics of DIC’s businesses by such as Rembrandt, Renoir, Chagall and Picasso, etc., modern including experiments involving planography and simple pigment Western paintings, contemporary art, such as Newman an Stella, synthesis. In 2011, we held lab lessons targeting over 300 sixth etc., and Japanese art, such as Korin Ogata and Tohaku Hasegawa, grade students from 4 schools, including Matsudo municipal etc. In addition to exhibiting these internal artworks, the museum Hachigasaki 2nd Elementary School, Kamihongo Elementary has held approximately 70 exhibits School, Matsugaoka Elementary School as well as Hasunedaini until now. The high quality activities Elementary School in Itabashi Ward. We will continue holding have received a great reputation, and these lab lessons by DIC has been awarded the Mécénat positioning them as part Award (Association for Corporate of important activities Support of the Arts) in December, for “ Harmony with 2008 and Culture Promotion Award t he C ommunit y and by the Western Art Foundation in Contribution to Society”, June, 2012. which is one of the CSR In addition, a satellite for the Chiba Satellite for the Chiba Biodiversity themes. Lab Lesson Center COMMENT Stakeholder’s voice Matsudo-city Board of Education Lifelong Learning Department We hope to provide children with learning opportunities that are Director of School Education connected to life Hiroyuki Tohata The city of Matsudo proactively promotes lab lessons by companies with the hopes that children realize the importance and joy of learning by experiencing that studies in science classes are closely connected to life. Our focuses upon lab lessons are safety and lessening burdens on schools in which these lessons are held. We think DIC is very well prepared in that aspect as well. DIC program has been held in elementary schools in Matsudo since 2010, and the contents are filled with attractions that tell us that colors of industrial products in our daily life are created and expressed with “chemistry”, which is an extension of science. These lab lessons are very beneficial as “career education” that develops children’s view on jobs, so we hope that DIC would continue holding these lessons. 37 IPPO IPPO NIPPON Local Junior High School Students Charity Jogging Held in Guangzhou Experiencing Work ●Support for Reconstruction after the Great East Japan Earthquake people who will lead the next generation to experience working DIC participates in the “IPPO IPPO NIPPON Project”, which in order to acquire career or working views and proactively hosts is a project sponsored by the Japan Association of Corporate internship students, etc. “Saitama Plant” (Ina City, Saitama) that Executives to aid reconstruction in areas devastated by the Great manufactures UV paint, LC materials, and adhesive films, etc. East Japan Earthquake. Over the course of this five-year endeavor, cooperates with the “Social Experience Challenge”, which is the Association will continue to appeal for corporate and individual planned by the board of education, and continually holds working donations, which will be used to provide support, with the aim of experience opportunities for 7th and 8th grade students. In 2011, fostering human resources and revitalizing local economies. DIC the plant held 4 opportunities and 12 junior high school students Harmony with the Community and Contribution to Society has resolved to donate \5million annually to the project beginning in participated from the community. They commuted to the Saitama 2011. Plant for 3 days at a time and experienced light work, such as In addition, DIC has inspections of products, packaging, etc. They presented what they als o c o nt r ib ute d ¥ 5 0 learned through work and exchanges with employees at school. million through the Japan These efforts are also promoted in Chiba Plant and Komaki Plant Business Federation and (Aichi) and are highly regarded by the local communities. donated a total of 5,000 helmets manufactured by DIC Plastics, Inc. to the ● Support for Persons with Intellectual Handicaps Miyako, Omoe and Taro “Huiling” is an NGO that was established in 1990 by a Chinese fisheries cooperatives and national and supports persons with intellectual handicaps. It promotes the city of Miyako, which its activities in 8 locations in China. DIC Co., Ltd. (Guangzhou) are located in Iwate. DIC observed various activities of Huiling Guangzhou, deepened the will continue to take an Letter of Appreciation for the Helmet Donations from understanding, and supported the philosophy. The company has active role in efforts aimed the Mayor of Miyako, Iwate appealed for donations from both employees and the company. at rehabilitating quake-ravaged regions. In addition, 86 employees/family members participated in the charity jogging, which was held in the “Oriental Resort ● Proactively Supporting the Next Generation Development from Working Guangzhou” in Báiyún area, Guangzhou, and held social Experience for Junior High School Students to Training Cooperation for Teachers exchanges with persons with intellectual handicaps in May, 2011. Each plant in the DIC Group holds opportunities that enable young VOICE Employee’s voice Saitama Plant Backup is Provided through Cooperation of Each General Affairs Group Department with the Focus on Safety Chiharu Nakanishi Saitama Plant has been hosting working experience opportunities since approximately 10 years ago. First, we communicate safety cautions to children, and each department decides the work contents in cooperation with each other. Seeing papers with honest opinions, such as “I’ve learned the difficulty of the society” and “I’ve experienced the importance of people’s considerations as well as organization”, etc. after the experience and hearing voices of different departments, such as “Thanks to them, we’ve made a good progress in work”, etc., make us happy. In 2011, teachers also cooperated with the training to learn local industries and accepted plant tours. I think it is very beneficial for others to learn the technologies and manufacturing of DIC through such opportunities. 38 Communication with Stakeholders Promoting Communication and Information Disclosure WEB http://www.dic-global.com/en/csr/stakeholder/society.html Basic Concept of and investors, and take their remarks and requests into Communication Promotion consideration on our business management. For institutional investors in Japan, we not only held two operating The DIC Group considers communication with stakeholders to results briefings per year but also participated in IR conferences be important and makes efforts through various opportunities, and small meetings organized by securities companies and held such as dialogues, exhibitions, website, and event, etc. We strive plant tours, etc. in order to enhance communication. For overseas to gain sufficient understanding of stakeholders’ expectations institutional investors, we held IR meetings, etc. in Hong Kong in order to reflect it to our actual business. In addition, we will and Singapore in Asia, New York, Boston, and Toronto in North also enhance our awareness on the concept of stakeholder America, and London, Edinburgh, Paris, and Zurich in Europe engagement, in relation to ISO 26000. in order to enhance communication. In addition, for individual Communication with Stakeholders investors, we participated in the “Tokyo Stock Exchange IR Festa” (event aimed for communication with individual investors) as well Ties with Customers as company introductory sessions for individual investors. We have also been making DIC has been trying to enhance our ties with customers through efforts in enhancing our communication. Especially in 2011, with customers in the electric/ information provision electronic product industries, we have focused on communicating initiatives through our the latest products/technologies by not only participating in website. exhibitions for FPD (flat panel display) and solar batteries but also Tokyo Stock Exchange IR Festa hosting technology exchanges with customers, etc. On the other hand, we have established the “DIC Interior Square Tokyo”, which is a show room displaying major products, in Ties with local communities November of 2011 in order to propose solutions to customers in the field of architecture and housing. We have also participated in ● Hokuriku Plant was Awarded the Energy Conservation the International Graphics Arts Show “IGAS 2011” and introduced Grand Prize the “DIC Digital Color On February 1, 2012, Hokuriku Plant was awarded the “Chairman Guide” to many visitors Prize of ECCJ” at the 2011 Energy Conservation Awards which and promoted it as a are sponsored by Energy Conservation Center (ECCJ) with the communication tool. cooperation of the Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry. The honor was given in recognition of the plant’s system for reducing energy consumption, which employs visual representation to DIC Interior Square Tokyo clarify energy consumption. The following day, February 2, Sayaka Ties with Shareholders and Hashimoto of the Hokuriku Plant’s Utility Control section took the Investors stage to talk about the plant’s goal of capitalizing on its awartThe DIC Group strives to make fair, appropriate and timely winning system to establish itself as a world-class production disclosure of information, closely communicate with shareholders facility. 39 At the Ceremony Initiative by Hokuriku Plant Guide's Traditional Japanese Colors collection”. In March, a workshop was held at Yawata Hanazono Kindergarten Hokuriku Plant employs visual representation aimed at, among in Tagajo, Miyagi with DIC employees. others, clarifying energy use by application, reducing the amount of energy used per unit of production and rationalizing energy In addition to this, DIC promotes “color education activities”, costs. Of particular note, the plant has implemented a foursuch as color seminars for nursery teachers and color education step energy management system that creates a detailed visual workshops for young children utilizing the “DIC Color Guide”, etc. representation of energy use through infrastructure development in order to communicate the vast color variations to children since and the visualization of energy data for steam lines up to the 2011 with the aim of promoting communication with the society production floor entrance, as well as of product-specific energy through colors. use per unit of production and manufacturing data. The system enabled the plant to achieve a 220-kiloliter reduction in annual Ties with Employees Communication with Stakeholders energy consumption, calculated in tons of crude oil. The plant also publishes a short newsletter outlining its various energy The DIC Group promotes rejuvenation of communication with conservation initiatives on the DIC Group’s intranet employees through various efforts and tools. DIC also held 36 town meetings in 2011 as opportunities for the ● Color Education Project president and employees to directly hold dialogues. In addition, “Making the Cherry Trees Blossom with Love” we strive to have closer communication among employees on DIC has launched the color education project “Making the a global scale by issuing the English and Chinese versions of Cherry Trees Blossom with Love”. In this project, sets of heart“DIC Plaza”, which is an internal seasonal magazine that widely shaped stickers (made to look like cherry blossom petals) and a introduces topics from various departments and plants in the pasteboard with painted cherry tree trunk/branches were given company. Furthermore, we have also launched a website called to 34 nursery schools and kindergartens in Iwate and Miyagi. “Comfort Cafe” in order to promote employee enlightenment The idea was to have children affix the blossom petal stickers to toward CSR through the intranet in 2011. We promote sharing of the tree branches to make their cherry tree burst into bloom. The information for environmental issues, which the DIC Group should stickers made to look like cherry blossom petals consist of 12 strive to solve through business activities, by covering the “climate delicate colors, which were carefully selected from the “DIC Color change issue”, etc. Cherry Blossoms in Full Bloom with the Hands of Children Employee Enlightenment Website “Comfort Cafe” 40 Third-Party Opinion for CSR Report 2012 The Japan Research Institute, Ltd. Counselor, Head of ESG Research Center Eiichiro Adachi Conducts industrial surveys and corporate evaluations in connection with corporate social responsibility focused on measures to address environmental issues. Provides financial institutions with corporate information to be used for socially responsible investment (SRI) and environment-focused financing. Involved in the publishing of The 15th Corporate White Paper-Market Evolution and CSR Management as a member of the Market Evolution and Corporations in the 21st Century working group organized for the KEIZAI DOYUKAI (Japan Association of Corporate Executives). He was Japan expert for the ISO 26000 working group from March, 2005 until May, 2009. Author of such books as An Introductory Guide to Environmental Management and Environmental Problems Illustrated for Businesses. This is my third year to read the CSR report by the DIC Group. paid to the enhancement of risk assessment for chemical I have focused on the section “accurate grasp of evolving substances/products overseas, we were also forced to take social imperatives, and respond with solutions that deliver the another look at the ways of risk management for scientific value that its stakeholders expect from the DIC Group” in the technologies after the nuclear power plant accident in Japan. beginning of this report again. In March, 3 applications were filed for an industrial accident Part of the DIC Group’s perspectives on the “evolving social case by employees who were at a printing plant in Osaka that Third-Party Opinion imperatives” and “expectations by stakeholders” is included in they were diagnosed with bile duct cancer. While the cause is this report’s “Special Topics”, and I read this with great interest. unclear at this point, the Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare The chart surrounding “Social Issues” on page 6 and the articles instructed printing industry organizations to take appropriate comprising of “Social Issues” and “DIC’s Initiatives” in pairs measures for chemical substances in May,2012. included in case examples were extremely clear and easy to It was beneficial for me to be able to learn from this report that understand. the DIC Group makes efforts in proactively participating in risk I think it probably would have been more effective if these management improvement programs and designing more lowexpressions were also used in other sections of the report. transfer products. I hope that the group will continue to enhance For example, there was hardly any mention of “how customer their activities in this domain with anticipation of the future, requirements have changed” in the article of “Business including the application of the precautionary principle, and Models to Improve Customer Satisfaction”. I hoped to learn voluntarily disclose information. the objectives of performance enhancement in relation to the Finally, DIC Group’s management vision includes the section society in this section. “Propose Color by Chemistry”. I expect that there are a number I assume that the theme “prioritize the “security of safety/ of aspects in which colors can be used as effective approaches environment /health” while maximizing the benef its of to “social issues”. Although this report contains several chemical products” in “Special Topics” on page 10 came examples, I think the report would be extremely interesting if from the perspectives of “changing needs of the society” and DIC could pursue the opportunities in a comprehensive manner “expectations by stakeholders”. While more attention has been and report the results if possible. I have provided this third-party opinion for the ways of CSR activities and information disclosure by the DIC Group which I have understood through this report from the perspective as one who provides corporate information to financial institutions for the sake of socially responsible investment. This opinion is not intended to provide judgment concerning whether or not this report has been accurately measured and calculated in accordance with the preparation criteria for environmental reports, etc. that are generally regarded appropriate or whether or not this report covers important items without omission. 41 <Contact> Corporate Communications, Dept. DIC Building, 7-20, Nihonbashi 3-Chome, Chuo-ku, Tokyo 103-8233, Japan TEL: +81-3-5203-7782 FAX:81-3-3273-7586 http://www.dic-global.com/en/csr/ This booklet uses FSC certified paper and is printed by the waterless printing method which does not require dampening water including solvents. Consideration is given to universal color design so as to convey information precisely to as many people as possible.
