Commitment in action 2011 SCOTIABANK CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT ABOUT THIS REPORT Contents 1 Message from Scotiabank’s philosophy is to integrate corporate social responsibility into all day-to-day President & CEO, Rick Waugh business activities. We measure success not only in terms of financial criteria, but also in 2 CSR and the all-Bank building customer satisfaction and employee engagement, maintaining strong governance business strategy practices and supporting the communities we serve. This is evident in the Bank’s balanced 4 Corporate Governance and scorecard approach to management, which integrates CSR elements into strategic Shareholders planning and performance evaluation processes. t )PX4DPUJBCBOL(PWFSOT Scotiabank’s CSR report complements the Bank’s Annual Report and is a high-level t #PBSEPG%JSFDUPST3FQPSUJOH summary of the Bank’s CSR strategy and priorities. Scotiabank’s CSR website, Structure scotiabank.com/csr, provides a complete overview of the Bank’s strategy, key performance t Case Study: Anti-Money indicators and examples of all CSR activities. Laundering 6 Customers Stakeholder Engagement t .JDSPåOBODF Every year, Scotiabank reaches out to those who regularly read this report to find out how the Bank is doing. The Bank routinely solicits feedback from a number of stakeholders, t.VMUJDVMUVSBM#BOLJOH including Canadian Business for Social Responsibility, the Consumers Council of Canada, t EESFTTJOH$VTUPNFS $PNQMBJOUT the Financial Consumer Agency of Canada, and its own employees. t Case Study: CPSJHJOBM#BOLJOH In 2011, Scotiabank instituted a formal stakeholder feedback exercise by holding 10 Employees stakeholder focus groups in Vancouver, Toronto and Halifax. Each group provided valuable feedback and comments on the Bank’s reporting. The focus groups consisted of a broad t %JWFSTJUZ range of stakeholders, including suppliers, municipal governments, businesses, non-profits, t )VNBO3JHIUT trade-based and investor organizations, academia and Aboriginal organizations. t -FBEFSTIJQ t Case Study:4DPUJBCBOL$640 Stakeholders consistently indicated that they want to get a better sense of what CSR *OUFSOBUJPOBM&NQMPZFF means to Scotiabank and how it relates to our core business. 'FMMPXTIJQ1SPHSBN This report has been designed to address this feedback, and to illustrate through practical 14 Environment examples how CSR is an integral part of how Scotiabank does business. t 3FEVDJOHPVS*NQBDU t &OWJSPONFOUBM3JTL Communicating Progress The Bank’s key performance indicators and additional data are available in the Appendix t 1SPKFDU'JOBODJOH to this report. t Case Study:1&36$43 18 Communities Scotiabank supports the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI), a non-profit organization that provides all companies and organizations with a comprehensive sustainability t #SJHIU'VUVSF reporting framework that is widely used around the world. This framework sets out the t &NQMPZFF&OHBHFNFOU principles and indicators that organizations use to measure and report their economic, t Case Study:(MPCBM)*7 environmental and social performance. Scotiabank reports at a G3 Application Level C, *%4QPMJDZ meaning the Bank reports fully on at least 10 Performance Indicators, including at least 21 Appendix one from each Indicator Dimension (Economic, Environmental, and Social). This report also meets the Bank’s commitment to submit a Communication on Progress (CoP) to the UN Global Compact to showcase how the Bank is working towards the ten UN Global Compact UNGC principles. *O 4DPUJBCBOLCFDBNFUIFåSTU For more information on Scotiabank’s Corporate Social Responsibility reporting, visit $BOBEJBOCBOLUPBEPQUUIF6/(MPCBM scotiabank.com/csr/ataglance. $PNQBDU 6/($ BDPNNJUNFOUUP VQIPMEBOEQSPUFDUIVNBOSJHIUT MBCPVS  FOWJSPONFOUBOEBOUJDPSSVQUJPOTUBOEBSET On the cover: *O)BJUJ 4DPUJBCBOL JOBTTPDJBUJPOXJUI%JHJDFMBOE:FMMPX1FQQFS MBVODIFEBiNPCJMF UISPVHICVTJOFTTQSBDUJDFT XBMMFUwåOBODJBMTFSWJDFDBMMFE5DIP5DIP.PCJMF GPMMPXJOHMBTUZFBSTEFWBTUBUJOHFBSUIRVBLF5IFNPCJMF XBMMFUTFSWJDFIBTIFMQFENBLFCBOLJOHFBTZ BGGPSEBCMFBOEBDDFTTJCMFUPBMM)BJUJBOT JODMVEJOHUIF *OUIJTSFQPSU XFIBWFJEFOUJåFEUIFBSFBT XIPEPOPUQBSUJDJQBUFJOUIFUSBEJUJPOBMåOBODJBMTZTUFN CVUNPTUEPVTFNPCJMFQIPOFT JOXIJDIXFBSFXPSLJOHUPXBSETUIF6/($ *UBMMPXTDVTUPNFSTUPQFSGPSNCBTJDåOBODJBMGVODUJPOT TVDIBTXJUIESBXBMT EFQPTJUT  QSJODJQMFTXJUIUIF6/($MPHP'PSNPSF USBOTGFSTBOEQBZNFOUT EFUBJMFEJOGPSNBUJPOPOIPXXFBSFXPSLJOH UPXBSETUIF6/($QSJODJQMFT QMFBTFWJTJU 'PSNPSFJOGPSNBUJPO TFFQBHFPGUIJTSFQPSU TDBOUIF23DPEF MFGU PSWJTJUTDPUJBCBOLDPNDTS TDPUJBCBOLDPNDTSBUBHMBODF Scotiabank is a leading multinational Scotiabank’s framework financial services provider and Canada’s most for success international bank. Through our team of more than 75,000 employees, Scotiabank and Five-point business strategy its affiliates offer a broad range of products 1. Sustainable and profitable revenue growth and services, including personal, commercial, 2. Capital and balance sheet management 3. Leadership corporate and investment banking to over 4. Prudent risk management and appetite 19 million customers in more than 55 countries. 5. Efficiency and expense management One Team One Goal Culture of collaboration Taking full advantage of business opportunities, synergies, best practices and our global talent pool. Values Integrity We interact with others ethically and honourably. Respect We empathize and fully consider the diverse needs of others. Commitment We are committed to helping customers succeed. Insight We use a high level of knowledge to proactively respond with the right solutions. Spirit We enrich our work environment with teamwork, contagious enthusiasm and a “can-do” attitude. Scotiabank’s strength is evident in the solid results for 2011. Total net income Scotiabank’s core purpose To be the best at $ 5,268 million helping customers become financially better off 43%: Net income before government taxes 30.5%: Employees by providing practical advice 20%: Suppliers 6%: Loan losses and relevant solutions. 0.5%: Non-controlling interest in the net income of subsidiaries 31%: Government taxes 69%: Dividends to shareholders/ reinvestment in BNS Maintaining a strong multinational presence Employees worldwide 75,362 Branches and offices worldwide 2,926 Automated banking machines (ABMs) worldwide 6,260 Locations around the world North America: Canada, Mexico, United States Central & South America: Belize, Brazil, Chile, Q Areas in red indicate a full range of corporate, commercial, trade Colombia, Costa Rica, El Salvador, Guatemala, Guyana, Nicaragua, Panama, Peru, Uruguay, Venezuela finance and retail services. O Areas with a red dot indicate Caribbean: Anguilla, Antigua and Barbuda, Aruba, Bahamas, Barbados, Bonaire, British Virgin Islands, global corporate and investment banking, or capital markets Cayman Islands, Curaçao, Dominica, Dominican Republic, Grenada, Haiti, Jamaica, Puerto Rico, St. Eustatius, businesses, Scotiabank or affiliate St. Kitts and Nevis, St. Lucia, St. Maarten, St. Vincent and the Grenadines, Trinidad and Tobago, Turks and bank representative offices, or investment management or retail Caicos, U.S. Virgin Islands Europe & Middle East: Dubai, Egypt, France, Ireland, Luxembourg, Netherlands, operations with less than 10 branches. Russia, Turkey, United Kingdom Asia/Pacific: Australia, China, Hong Kong SAR – People’s Republic of China, India, Japan, Korea (Republic of), Malaysia, Singapore, Taiwan, Thailand, Vietnam Business platforms Canadian Banking International Banking Global Wealth Management Global Banking and Markets (formerly Scotia Capital) Net income* Net income* Net income* Net income* $ 1,862 $ 1,485 26% of Scotiabank’s total net income** $ 1,218 21% of Scotiabank’s total net income** $ 1,184 32% of Scotiabank’s total net income** 21% of Scotiabank’s total net income** Providing a full suite of Providing a full range of Combines Scotiabank’s wealth Scotiabank’s wholesale financial advice and solutions, personal and commercial management and insurance banking arm offers a supported by an excellent financial services across business in Canada and wide variety of products customer experience, to retail, the Caribbean and Central internationally, along with the and services to corporate, small business and commercial America, Latin America Global Transaction Banking government and institutional markets in Canada. and Asia. group. investor clients globally. *2011 ($ millions). ** % of 2011 net income, excluding other A MESSAGE FROM PRESIDENT AND CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER RICK WAUGH Throughout Scotiabank’s history, we have been dedicated to operating with integrity and forging meaningful connections with employees, customers, shareholders and the communities we serve. We do this because corporate social responsibility (CSR) is deeply In 2012, we will continue to grow the EcoLiving program, our key rooted in Scotiabank’s business and culture. In fact, CSR is embedded environmental initiative that helps Canadians make greener choices for in each priority of the Bank’s five-point strategy — whether it is by their homes and reduce their environmental impact. And every year, focusing on customers’ needs, providing employees with a workplace we increase the scope of our CSR reporting, which today covers 87% where they can thrive, paying close attention to governance, being of our multinational operations. We will look to increase that number environmentally aware, or rallying support for local communities. even further next year. In 2011, Scotiabank took its CSR commitment even further with some I encourage you to visit our website, scotiabank.com/csr, to learn exciting new programs, initiatives and successes. more about Scotiabank’s commitment to social responsibility and our progress throughout the year. For example, we created a global HIV-AIDS strategy late last year to continue to battle this life-threatening disease, as well as fight the Scotiabank’s strong core values have inspired us, individually and discrimination and stigma around it. The strategy is a key part of our collectively, for some 180 years, to give back in meaningful ways. We commitment as a signatory to the UN Global Compact, but more are proud of what we have accomplished as a team so far — but we importantly it is good for customers, employees and shareholders in also know there is still much more to do. all our communities, including emerging markets, where we operate. As Scotiabankers, we believe business has a responsibility to operate And that also makes good business sense. ethically and with integrity for the benefit of all stakeholders. We also In January, we launched Scotiabank Bright Future, a global know there are deep connections between successful businesses and philanthropic program that brings together the insight of our partners, vibrant communities. This is the driving force behind corporate social the spirit of our communities from around the world and, most responsibility at Scotiabank, and I am excited about the possibilities importantly, the passion of our employees — my fellow Scotiabankers. ahead as we continue working toward a bright future. Everyone on this team, which is now over 75,000 strong, brings Scotiabank Bright Future to life through countless volunteer hours and funds raised for their communities. Scotiabank CSR Report 2011 1 Corporate Social Responsibility and Scotiabank’s business strategy Scotiabank’s strategy supports its core purpose of helping customers become financially better off by providing practical advice and relevant solutions. It defines where the Bank is going and how it is going to get there. The strategy guides the Bank’s success and its focus on customers, diversity, strength and stability. Scotiabank’s CSR priorities are fully integrated into the Bank’s five-point business strategy, enriching it through key CSR initiatives. Scotiabank’s Five-point 3 Balanced Scorecard Leadership is about developing a broad spectrum of talent to ensure we business strategy Scotiabank’s balanced scorecard is designed have the right people to implement to achieve consistency in strategic focus and CSR is an integral component of our strategy. Employees expect their employer measurement across the organization. The to be ethical, respect human rights and to be a Scotiabank’s five-point strategy. Bank’s balanced scorecard includes specific place where they can thrive and where they can objectives for financial performance, customer participate in philanthropic activities. 1 Sustainable & Profitable Revenue service, operational achievement and the Growth is about focusing on employee experience. Corporate Social 4 Prudent Risk Management & Appetite customers. Customers want clear and Responsibility is included in the operational is about balancing the expectations easy access to services and they want to do quadrant, which reinforces CSR as integral to for growth against risk throughout business with an ethical financial institution Scotiabank’s business. the organization. Corporate governance efforts that is also engaged with the community, help ensure that this balance is achieved by is environmentally aware and treats paying attention to global trends and ensuring CSR Advisory Committee employees fairly. the Bank meets its regulatory responsibilities. The CSR Advisory Committee was started Environmental concerns also play a role in risk 2 in 2005 and consists of a group of senior Capital & Balance Sheet Management management: environmental risk refers to the Executives from across Business lines and ensures that the Bank is secure and possibility that environmental concerns involving corporate functions. The committee provides able to support growth. This is where Scotiabank or its customers could affect the input on key CSR issues and champions CSR Corporate Governance plays a role in steering Bank’s financial performance and reputation. initiatives in all business areas. The Committee the organization toward long-term success. is chaired by the Bank’s Vice-President of 5 Efficiency & Expense Management is CSR, Kaz Flinn. about continually improving the way we do business. The Bank’s environmental initiatives contribute to this substantially. In reducing our environmental footprint, we are constantly finding ways to be more efficient that also benefit the environment. 2 2011 Scotiabank CSR Report Scotiabank’s Five-Point Strategy 1 Sustainable & 2 Profitable Revenue Capital & Growth Balance Sheet Management Scotiabank's core purpose is: 5 To be the best at helping customers become financially 3 better off by providing Efficiency practical advice and & Expense relevant solutions. Management Leadership 4 Prudent Risk Management & Appetite Scotiabank helps to build bright futures worldwide through ethical banking practices, environmental awareness and a commitment to communities. Corporate Governance Customers Scotiabank’s CSR Priorities and Shareholders Scotiabank’s core purpose is The Board of Directors is to help customers become ultimately accountable for the financially better off. Bank’s actions and results. Employees Environment Communities Scotiabank aims to provide Scotiabank’s integrated Through the Bright Future a place for talented approach to environmental Program, Scotiabank employees to thrive. issues helps improve the Bank’s contributes to communities environmental footprint. and causes across the globe. Scotiabank CSR Report 2011 3 CSR COMMITTED TO MAKING A DIFFERENCE STRATEGY 2, 4 PRINCIPLE 10 Corporate Governance and Shareholders Corporate governance refers to the oversight mechanisms, BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORTING STRUCTURE such as policies and procedures, and the ways in which a APPOINT company is governed. ELECT REPORT Governance at Scotiabank An effective corporate governance structure is crucial to the sound functioning of the Bank. As a APPOINT BOARD OF APPOINT multinational financial institution, it is the Bank’s duty to ensure that DIRECTORS practices and policies meet or exceed local, Canadian and international governance standards and requirements, and also, that REPORT the interests of diverse stakeholders around the world are APPOINT APPOINT represented in a balanced way. A solid foundation of openness, integrity and accountability has positioned Scotiabank well in this economic climate by building and maintaining strong, enduring relationships with customers and other stakeholders in the communities in which the Bank operates. “Accountability for the Bank’s actions The Board of Directors is elected by shareholders to supervise the and results is shared by all employees, management of the business and affairs of Scotiabank, with a view to enhancing long-term shareholder value. All directors nominated and ultimately rests with the Board of for election at Scotiabank’s Annual General Meeting on April 3rd, 2012 are independent, except for one – Mr. Waugh, President and Directors.” Chief Executive Officer of Scotiabank. The independence of directors is particularly important because independence, or impartiality, helps the Board better monitor management’s performance and encourages a balance of interests. The UN Global Compact includes a principle against Scotiabank’s Guidelines for Business Conduct, which are approved by corruption, asking signatories to take proactive measures the Board of Directors, serve as the Bank’s code of ethics – a against bribery, extortion and other forms of corruption, framework for ethical behaviour based on Scotiabank’s mission and and also to develop policies and concrete programs to values and on applicable laws and regulations. All directors, officers address corruption. In 2011, Scotiabank Mexico and employees of Scotiabank must annually acknowledge adherence participated in a UN global study of anti-corruption to the Guidelines for Business Conduct. policies. One of Scotiabank Mexico’s anti-corruption Specific responsibility for corporate governance at Scotiabank rests policies is to annually provide employees with an online with the Corporate Governance and Pension Committee of the training course in Scotiabank’s Guidelines for Business Board, which is composed entirely of independent directors. Conduct. Scotiabank also has a global Anti-Corruption Scotiabank regularly reviews its corporate governance policies and procedures at all levels, and the Board of Directors is committed to Policy and Guidance manual available to all employees. reviewing trends and evolving best practices. The Board also implements changes to the Bank’s corporate governance framework where appropriate. 4 2011 Scotiabank CSR Report N. Ashleigh Everett – Chair, Corporate Governance and Pension Committee and John C. Kerr – Chair, Human Resources Committee. Michael J.L. Kirby – Chair, Audit and Conduct Review Committee and Allan C. Shaw – Chair, Executive and Risk Committee. John T. Mayberry Chairman of the Board “The Bank has been successful by centralizing transaction screenings in Canada, which helps to ensure that the bank meets all global standards efficiently and effectively and in a balanced way.” CASE STUDY: Anti-Money Laundering Scotiabank, as part of the global financial community conducting business around the world, is committed to preventing our products, services and delivery channels from being used to facilitate illegal activity. The Bank has developed extensive Anti-Money Laundering/ Anti-Terrorist Financing policies and procedures. The Board of Directors is responsible for the integrity of internal applicable local laws and regulations of each jurisdiction. King controls and compliance with laws and for maintaining the Antiexplains that the Bank has been successful by centralizing transaction Money Laundering/Anti-Terrorist Financing Program. screenings in Canada, which helps to ensure that the Bank meets all global standards efficiently and effectively and in a balanced Scotiabank’s Chief Anti-Money Laundering Officer, who answers to way. “It’s very important to ensure that our processes are minimally senior management and the Board of Directors, implements and obtrusive to customers and employees,” says King. maintains the Anti-Money Laundering/Anti-Terrorist Compliance Program. Scotiabank’s efforts in anti-money laundering and anti-terrorist financing are linked to two overarching priorities: sustainable and Ron King, Scotiabank’s Chief Anti-Money Laundering Officer, profitable revenue growth and prudent risk management and explains that, across the organization, employees are motivated to appetite. Part of revenue growth is ensuring that we have the implement anti-money laundering programs and policies. “First and products and services customers want and need. The Anti-Money foremost, it’s a regulatory requirement to follow the law. But perhaps Laundering group works with business lines to ensure that regulatory more importantly, it aligns with the Bank’s core values. Scotiabank obligations are met as efficiently as possible with every new product, employees consider legal compliance a higher cause.” service or delivery channel. As a bank with operations in more than 55 countries, establishing Scotiabank’s risk management strategy is part of the Bank’s culture, standards and building awareness and control is a complex task. particularly when deterring and detecting illegal activities. “We have All international branches and subsidiaries are required to meet a risk-based approach,” says King, “we work diligently to identify Scotiabank’s stringent standards and must also comply with all risk and exposure.” Scotiabank CSR Report 2011 5 CSR COMMITTED TO MAKING A DIFFERENCE STRATEGY 1 PRINCIPLE 1 Customers Scotiabank’s core purpose is to be the best at helping customers become financially better off by providing practical advice and relevant solutions. In more than 55 countries, Scotiabank looks to provide the right products and solutions to meet the unique needs of customers. Microfinance Part of helping people become financially better off is making sure that they are able to access banking services. Microfinance can provide a range of services such as credit, savings and insurance to low-income and self-employed individuals. Scotiabank supports innovative microfinance services to small-scale entrepreneurs and micro-business owners through dedicated and expert business units in Peru, Chile, Dominican Republic, Guatemala and Jamaica. Not only does microfinance help individuals and their families with their financial needs, it has also been shown to improve economic development across entire communities. Scotiabank defines microfinance clients as self-employed or micro-business owners with annual gross revenues below CDN$100,000 who need funding to invest in the development and growth of their business. In Chile, for example, Scotiabank provides banking services for micro-business owners, serving over 20,000 borrowers with average loans of just under CDN$3,000. They also provide credit cards, personal loans, mortgage and educational loans for these business owners. Some of Scotiabank’s microfinance operations provide free financial Mobile Wallets in Haiti literacy programs to clients and non-clients to strengthen basic Over one-third of Haitian banks were destroyed in the business and finance management competencies. Scotiabank plans devastating earthquake of 2010. Over 90% of the to expand the coverage of these programs in 2012. population needed a way to store and have access to money and while they didn’t have access to a traditional bank, most of them use mobile phones. With that in mind, Scotiabank launched a “mobile wallet” financial service called TchoTcho Mobile, in association with Digicel and YellowPepper. “Helping individuals and their families The mobile wallet service has helped to make banking easy, affordable and accessible to all Haitians. Users can now with their financial needs and safely store money, receive payroll or payments, make bill payments and purchases, among other services. It has been improving economic development a resounding success as over 100,000 Haitians now have across entire communities.” access to mobile banking and can contribute to the economic redevelopment of their nation. Scotiabank and Digicel together won the 2011 Global Telecoms Business Innovation Award for Consumer Service Innovation for this affordable product for the people of Haiti. 6 2011 Scotiabank CSR Report Multicultural Banking With our multinational footprint, Newcomers to Canada DayPlanner, published by the Canadian Scotiabank has a unique perspective on the varying needs of Foundation for Economic Education and supported by Scotiabank. newcomers arriving in Canada. Scotiabank consistently reaches out The planner provides the information they need to start a new life to Canada’s newcomers, offering services in many languages. In in Canada, including advice on how to rent or buy a home, how to addition to providing multilingual products and services, Scotiabank find a job and how to access healthcare and learn about the employees reflect the diversity of the communities where the Bank education system. operates. The Bank actively recruits and welcomes employees from As many newcomers maintain ties back home, Scotiabank has multicultural communities who understand and embrace the cultural partnered with Western Union to help them send money through nuances of its customers and who can speak their language branches across Canada (or through Scotia OnLine Financial Services) of choice. to more than 400,000 Western Union agent locations in 200 Scotiabank employees understand that newcomers to Canada countries and territories. consider how to build their new lives before their arrival. In India and The Scotiabank StartRight® Program—available in eight languages— China, through Scotiabank branches and a partnership with China was designed specifically for newcomers to make settling in Canada Everbright Bank, newcomers can establish their banking relationships easier. The program offers newcomers easier access to credit, free with Scotiabank in Canada prior to leaving their country. day-to-day banking for one year and a variety of other investment In 2011, arriving through Toronto and Vancouver’s international and borrowing products and services customized to meet their airports, 130,000 newcomers received a free settlement kit: the unique needs. Photo: Manuel Peñaloza, a Microfinance client in Chile creates oil paintings, and artisanal altarpieces made out of wood, paste, polish, water enamel, and patina. For eleven years he has been working on his craft, and his artwork is sold to business owners that showcase it at the Galerias de Arte located in the Mall of los Muebles del Persa Bio Bio, Chile. Scotiabank CSR Report 2011 7 ...including George Marlatte, On October 14th, 2011, ...joined the Right Honourable Senior Vice President of Scotiabank’s Scotiabankers,... Paul Martin PC,MP Prairie Banking Region ...Entrepreneurship Program ...with enthusiastic students ...at the Oscar Lathlin Collegiate. Scotiabank Retail Customer Small Business Customer Addressing customer concerns We take customers Loyalty (Canada) – Top Box Loyalty (Canada) – Top Box concerns seriously—it is how trust is earned and how relationships 56% 55% are maintained. 53% 53% 51% 53% There is a three-step customer process for the escalation of personal banking and small business customer concerns: 1. Contact the local branch management or contact centre, 2. Contact the Scotiabank Office of the President, and 3. Contact the Scotiabank Ombudsman. 2009 2010 2011 2009 2010 2011 If a customer still feels their concern has not been satisfactorily Top Box refers to the proportion of Scotiabank’s small business customer loyalty addressed, they may contact the Ombudsman for Banking Services customers who provided the highest index is based on results from an internal rating based on a five-point rating scale. survey, and is a key indicator of our customers’ and Investments, an independent organization that investigates loyalty to Scotiabank. customer concerns about financial services providers. Top Box refers to the proportion of customers Internationally, Scotiabank locations follow similar complaint who provided the highest rating based on a five-point rating scale. management processes, which vary according to local needs or regulatory requirements. Scotiabank Retail Customer Loyalty (International Banking) Through Your Customers’ Eyes, International Banking (TYCE IB ) 47% 45% 42% 2009 2010 2011 *Customer Loyalty Index (CLI) is a composite score, which is the average of the proportion of Top Box responses (highest ranking on a five-point scale) across four loyalty questions. 8 2011 Scotiabank CSR Report ...in The Pas, northern Manitoba ...to launch ...the first ever on reserve Mr. Martin was honoured ...Chief Michael Constant ...and students. by the community,... CASE STUDY: Aboriginal Financial Services In Canada, Scotiabank operates a network of 22 Aboriginal Banking Centres, including four on-reserve branches. Scotiabank branches serving Aboriginal communities are encouraged to purchase products and services from Aboriginal-owned businesses or to offer employment and training opportunities to local community members. Scotiabank has long focused on the advancement and education the workplace and daily life. Students are given entrepreneurial of Aboriginal youth. In 2011, Scotiabank launched a partnership experience and the opportunity for business ownership. An with the Martin Aboriginal Education Initiative (MAEI), to provide important aspect of the program is that it is on-reserve: “We will be mentorship programs in Winnipeg and Edmonton, whereby engaging other successful people in the community to come and talk secondary school students are being mentored by Scotiabank to students, but the other key aspect is that on reserve, the whole employees. community will end up knowing about it and being a part of the program,” says Walker. In October 2011, the Martin Initiative and Scotiabank once again partnered to launch a first-of-its-kind on-reserve youth One element of the program will involve students role-playing a entrepreneurship program at Oscar Lathlin Collegiate at Opaskwayak business loan pitch to a banker. Not only will students have the Cree Nation. “It is an exciting and groundbreaking program”, opportunity to practise selling their own proposal, they will also have explains Lee Walker, Director, Aboriginal Financial Services, “we are a chance to be the banker and understand what the bank employee aiming to create generational change with this pilot project. We is looking for from a potential business client. Scotiabank employee want students to enjoy the program, but more importantly, we want volunteers will also mentor the students as they learn how to use to inspire them to continue their education. We hope that some of bank accounts, keep records and acquire leadership skills. the students consider coming to work at Scotiabank eventually!” The program began in January 2012 with about 20 students. The program encourages students to stay in school where they can Scotiabank will offer start-up funds to students who start their develop the attitudes, knowledge and skills necessary to achieve own micro-businesses. “It’s very rewarding to support youth and success in secondary school, postsecondary education or training, education,” says Walker, “we’re passionate about this!” Photo: The Martin Aboriginal Youth Entrepreneurship Program provides students with the tools and rationale to stay in school, where they can develop the attitudes, knowledge, and skills necessary to achieve success in secondary school, postsecondary education or training, and the workplace. The program gives students entrepreneurial experience, financial skills and the chance to start a business. Scotiabank CSR Report 2011 9 CSR COMMITTED TO MAKING A DIFFERENCE STRATEGY 1, 3 PRINCIPLES 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 10 Employees Human Rights Scotiabank is committed to an inclusive and accessible workplace globally where employees are treated equitably and with respect. The Bank’s Guidelines for Business Conduct describe the standards of behaviour required of all employees, Scotiabank’s greatest strength is its employees—they are the including the equitable treatment of all workforce members, as well true authors of the Bank’s success. The focus on employees is as customers. very much a leadership development strategy. Leadership is an enterprise-wide, strategic priority that focuses on developing The Bank is committed to the spirit and principles embodied in the a global talent pool for long-term individual and business Canadian Human Rights Act (CHRA), reflecting international standards success. in human rights practices for both employees and customers. Scotiabank respects all applicable human rights and nonDiversity As a multinational financial institution, Scotiabank discrimination laws where it operates, with due regard to the spirit celebrates diversity. The diversity of talent, background and and intent of international instruments on human rights, such as the experience of the Scotiabank team helps the Bank provide leading, Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the International Covenant on competitive service to our diverse customer base. Economic, Social and Cultural Rights, and on Civil and Political Rights, A culture of diversity and inclusion helps Scotiabank create an and the Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work. environment that generates more innovative thinking, collaboration, Employees are encouraged to address concerns relating to human better decision-making and stronger business results, providing a rights issues through a process that is implemented in all of clear competitive advantage. Scotiabank’s branches and offices. In 2011, the Bank dealt with 37 One of the ways the Bank helps to highlight and encourage this human rights matters through internal escalation processes, and six culture is through a Diversity and Inclusion website at formal human rights complaints through the Canadian Human Rights scotiabank.com/diversityandinclusion. The Bank’s diversity and Commission (CHRC). The Bank takes discrimination concerns very inclusion goals are publicly available. seriously and has developed a proactive working relationship with the Canadian Human Rights Commission, aimed at resolving concerns in Scotiabank’s system of goal-setting, tracking, measuring and a timely manner. evaluating its organizational diversity helps to maintain its focus and creates momentum for achieving results. The Bank also conducts training and education that is designed to ensure that employees fully understand their rights and obligations In a global market, the ability to be innovative and to leverage with respect to human rights and discrimination. Scotiabank’s diversity through a culture of inclusion is key to business sustainability. In fact, Scotiabank has been recognized for the third consecutive year as one of the Top 10 Canadian companies in the Corporate Knights 2011 Leadership Diversity Index. Scotia Live Scotiabank’s framework for success and our One Team One Goal philosophy relies on building a culture of collaboration. This means taking full advantage of business opportunities, synergies, best practices and our global talent pool. To enable success, the Bank has been rolling out ScotiaLive, an employee communications and collaboration tool, to employees worldwide. While it is still in its early stages, ScotiaLive is already opening up new ways of sharing knowledge, expertise, innovative ideas and solutions across business lines and geographies. It enables employees around the globe to For more information on Diversity and Inclusion at Scotiabank, connect through one platform with the common goal scan the QR code (left) or visit scotiabank.com/diversityandinclusion of serving customers better. 10 2011 Scotiabank CSR Report “The diversity of talent, background and experience of the Scotiabank team helps the Bank provide leading, competitive service to our diverse customer base.” Photo: A culture of inclusion is the heart of Scotiabank’s global community. Employees are valued for their individual talents, inspiration and innovative thinking. Scotiabank aims to create an environment that leverages the strengths of all employees to generate better decision-making and stronger business results. Scotiabank CSR Report 2011 11 “Identifying and developing talent globally is the strength that makes leadership a competitive advantage for Scotiabank” Leadership Scotiabank is dedicated to developing leaders because Employee engagement index (%)* strong leadership is a competitive advantage that helps to deliver 2010 2011 results. Scotiabank 2011 84% 85% Norm among global financial With operations in more than 55 countries, our international services organizations 82% 81% platform uniquely positions us to identify and develop talent from Overall, Scotiabank employees are highly engaged. Results show that Scotiabank around the globe. It is this strength that makes leadership a continues to be at the forefront of employee engagement from a global benchmark perspective. At 85% engagement, we are in the top 10% of benchmarked financial competitive advantage for Scotiabank. services organizations globally and considered a leader in the field of employee engagement. Scotiabank actively encourages the early identification of talent and *This index measures the passion and commitment employees have for their job, coworkers and organization, that influences them to go the “extra mile.” potential on a global basis through the Scotiabank Talent Profile. The Talent Profile is an online resume that helps employees share their career history, leadership competencies, experiences and career Geographic breakdown by region aspirations. The Talent Profile is based on the Leader Profile criteria, through which employees can assess and guide their development 45.2%: Canada according to the competency areas that directly relate to 18.7%: Caribbean/Central America leadership growth. 33.9%: Latin America Leadership Development happens across the organization through a 1.0%: Asia/Pacific 1.2%: Other number of initiatives. One of them is the Executive Program Office (EPO), which provides a unique, cross-divisional experience for a small group of emerging leaders to participate in an intensive high-level, short-term assignment. Over several months, this small Latin America group helps the Executive team shape the Bank’s strategic direction 5.3%: Chile by carrying out in-depth research and analysis on strategic issues. 15.2%: Mexico This involves pulling together expertise and perspectives from across 13.3%: Peru Scotiabank, which gives EPO participants a broader, deeper 0.1%: Other understanding of the Bank. Participants also benefit from individual and team coaching and mentoring opportunities. Scotiabank also supports development experiences through job rotations, cross-divisional appointments and through participation in cross-functional teams, or through community volunteerism. 12 2011 Scotiabank CSR Report CASE STUDY: Scotiabank/CUSO International Employee Fellowship Program Scotiabank has partnered with Cuso International to offer employees the opportunity to develop and enhance their skills through the new Scotiabank/Cuso International Employee Fellowship Program. Employees, who meet eligibility criteria, may take a six-month to oneyear unpaid leave of absence to engage in international development work as volunteers. The program was launched in 2010 and two Canadian employees have already participated: Chris Little and Coreena Rorke. For over 50 years, Cuso International has been sending volunteers For Scotiabank, getting involved in the program has a clear link to abroad to work on collaborative development projects in Africa, Asia, the Bank’s leadership priority. Employees who participate stand to Latin America and the Caribbean. Cuso International works with gain valuable insight and experience in areas such as cross-cultural companies to develop long-term, strategic partnerships that combine collaboration and leadership. According to Deanna Matzanke, critical business skills with volunteering. Director HR Policy and Compliance, Diversity and Inclusion, Scotiabank: “As a bank, we’re a global citizen and a critical element “It is important for us to have a partner that shares our values,” of our success is encouraging a culture of inclusion, which is very explains Pamela Miles, Director of Resource Development, Cuso much what this program accomplishes.” International. “With Scotiabank, we share similar values about human resources, respect, accountability and transparency. And In 2010, Chris Little, Manager, Finance & Planning, Global Scotiabank has an incredible resource to offer: its high-quality Employment Strategies, went to Guyana to assist the Helping Hands employees.” Women’s Group with financial management support. Little sums up his experience: “What I learned was a much greater tolerance The benefits of the program are far-reaching: overseas communities for difference. I’m a better team player now and I’m better at receive hands-on expertise, employers enhance employees’ skills and understanding customers’ different points of view. It was also a great volunteers gain an incredibly rewarding professional development opportunity to see a beautiful part of the world. I recommend it to experience while making a difference abroad. anyone who’ll listen.” Coreena Rorke, Client Relationship Manager, went to Jamaica to In 2012, the program is expanding to include employees from other work with Youth Opportunities Unlimited. When asked about how countries: Trinidad García Bernales (Chile), Rosa Murillo Santamaría she was able to contribute to the organization, she said: “I was (Mexico), Mónica Arteaga (Mexico) and Ericka Legua Iglesias (Peru). given the opportunity to apply my skills and knowledge towards the improvement and long-term sustainability of an organization whose sole purpose is to improve the opportunities available to the youth in their country.” Photo: Chris Little, as part of the Scotiabank/CUSO International Employee Fellowship Program, worked with the Helping Hands Women’s Group, in Lethem, Guyana, providing them with much needed financial management support and training. To learn more about Chris’s experience, visit his blog at chrisinguyana.wordpress.com. Scotiabank CSR Report 2011 13 CSR COMMITTED TO MAKING A DIFFERENCE STRATEGY 1, 4, 5 PRINCIPLES 7, 8, 9 Environment Environmental Risk Environmental risks associated with the business operations of each borrower and any real property offered as security are considered in the Bank’s credit evaluation procedures. This includes an environmental assessment, where applicable, and As a major multinational financial institution, Scotiabank’s commentary on climate change where it would have a material day-to-day operations have a number of direct and indirect impact (including regulatory, physical or reputational impacts) on the impacts on the environment. The Bank takes an integrated borrower. Global Risk Management has primary responsibility for approach to environmental issues, whether creating establishing the related policies, processes and standards associated environmental products and services, assessing the with mitigating environmental risk in the Bank’s lending activities. environmental risk of the Bank’s lending portfolio or reducing paper and energy consumption. In doing so, the Bank not only In 2011, the Bank offered training sessions on environmental and improves its own environmental footprint, but provides tools social risk management issues for high-impact sectors and an and financial products that help customers do the same. environment module was added to the Bank’s Credit Fundamentals course, which is offered periodically to banking and credit officers. Reducing the Bank’s Environmental Impact Scotiabank’s In addition, the Bank performed stress tests in the current year daily activities have an impact on the environment, including examining the credit impact of increased environmental compliance consuming paper, using energy and producing waste, and making costs in the oil and gas sector following the Gulf of Mexico incident many different types of purchases. In 2011, increasing the scope of in April 2010, as well as increasing concern around leaks in the the Bank’s programs in these areas and measuring results continued pipelines subsector and new pipeline construction. Following the to be a primary focus. nuclear tragedy at Japan’s Fukushima Daiichi Nuclear Power Plant Measuring Scotiabank’s environmental impact in Canada was the in March 2011, the Bank has examined the credit impact of first step and, in recent years, the goal has been to increase what similar events occurring in areas where the Bank has higher levels gets measured across the organization globally, a task that has its of exposure. challenges. Each country has its own way of reporting consumption, and countries have differing consumption demands and cultures. The overall objective is to achieve a global standard of reporting to measure and report on the Bank’s progress year over year. In 2009, we began reporting on paper and energy consumption data Now in its second year, Scotiabank’s EcoLiving program is in some of Scotiabank’s international locations. Data on paper Canada’s go-to print and online resource that helps consumption in Mexico, Peru, Chile and Costa Rica is now available. homeowners save money by reducing their energy bills and Together with Canada, this represents more than 80% of global making green home improvements. The EcoLiving website operations. On the energy measurement front, the Bank reports on and biannual magazine are produced with Green Living Canada, Mexico, Chile, Peru and Costa Rica and, in 2011, Jamaica Enterprises and feature articles on topics such as and El Salvador were added, increasing the scope of energy reporting sustainable decor, eco-friendly roofing options and to 87% of global operations. green cleaning products. In 2011, Scotiabank also made substantial progress in recycling initiatives, particularly internationally, where recycling programs often As part of the EcoLiving program, in 2011, the Bank created are not initiated or managed by local government. Rather, companies the EcoLiving Awards to celebrate and reward innovasuch as Scotiabank take the lead in creating recycling initiatives to tors in home energy efficiency. The 2011 winners included benefit entire communities. a green non-profit contractor in Winnipeg, Manitoba, a developer of low-footprint homes in New Brunswick and For example, Scotiabank El Salvador has seven “green point” a student from Alberta who designed a tracking system to collection depots that receive recyclables from employees, customers, maximize the output of solar panels. The winners received suppliers and the public. As well, branches have smaller recycling CDN$75,000 in prizes at a gala attended by green leaders stations for employees. Materials collected include paper, plastic, from across Canada. Visit ecoliving.scotiabank.com for more cardboard, glass, aluminum and newsprint. These programs also information. offer recycling education and provide public drop-off areas. 14 2011 Scotiabank CSR Report Photo: Scotiabank El Salvador announced a new partnership with FUDEMAS to create the environmental program, ‘Let’s Clean El Salvador’. Through this program, Scotiabank employees came together to do a cleanup of the Chilama River in La Libertad, El Salvador. Scotiabank CSR Report 2011 15 2011 Equator Principles Assessments Category A: Projects likely to have significant adverse social or environmental 7% 29% Project Number of impacts that are diverse, irreversible or unprecedented. Examples of these category assessments types of impacts include: loss of a major natural habitat, impacts on vulnerable A 0 groups or ethnic minorities, involuntary displacement or resettlement, or impacts 21% B 4 on significant cultural heritage sites. C 10 Category B: Projects with potential adverse social or environmental impacts on Total 14 human populations or environmentally important areas which are less 43% adverse than those of Category A projects. These impacts tend to be Canada site-specific; few if any of them are irreversible; and in most cases mitigation United States measures can be designed more readily than for Category A projects. Latin America Category C: Projects with minimal or no adverse social or environmental Australia impacts. Beyond screening, no further SEA action is required. Environmental Engagement Throughout the year, Renewable energy technologies now offer Canadians eco-friendly Scotiabank engages with environmental stakeholders to share best alternatives, which can be funded through Scotiabank’s EcoEnergy practices and facilitate action around key environmental initiatives. Financing program. Costs for equipment, installation and grid For example, Scotiabank is a long-standing member of the United hookup can be funded for qualifying projects. Scotiabank’s Nations Environment Programme Finance Initiative (UNEP FI) and the EcoEnergy Financing program is designed to support personal and Bank co-chairs its North American Task Force (NATF). UNEP FI is a small business customers who wish to install small-scale renewable unique partnership between the UN and global financial institutions. energy projects. Its activities focus on research connecting sustainability with financial Scotiabank has two insurance incentives for policyholders that make performance, as well as training and education. environmentally friendly decisions. For homes that are LEED Project Financing and the Equator Principles In the area (Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design) certified, of project finance, Scotiabank adheres to the Equator Principles, a set policyholders are eligible for a discount on their Scotia Home of internationally recognized, voluntary guidelines that establish Insurance premiums. As well, to encourage consumers to purchase social and environmental standards in the banking industry. In vehicles with lower carbon dioxide emissions, Scotia Home & Auto adopting these principles, Scotiabank agrees to provide loans only Insurance offers policyholders a discount on all hybrid cars. to those projects where borrowers can demonstrate their ability Capital Markets Scotiabank’s Global Banking and Markets and willingness to comply with comprehensive social and (GBM) is a strong supporter of the renewable energy sector. In 2011, environmental standards. GBM had approximately CDN$1.4 billion in authorized credits to the The Equator Principles apply to project financing where total capital renewables sector in North America. Commitments to the costs exceed US$10 million. In 2011, Scotiabank financed 14 projects renewables sector comprised a significant portion of GBM’s power that met the Equator Principles requirements. loan portfolio. Environmental Products and Services Scotiabank provides Scotiabank’s Environmental Markets Group helps clients manage customers with various kinds of environmental products and services. their carbon footprint. While still relatively new in North America, carbon credit trading has developed as a result of regulations to The Scotia Global Climate Change Fund, which was the first of its reduce greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions. The Bank helps to facilitate kind in Canada, provides Canadians with the opportunity to invest in the carbon market by providing financing for carbon project environmentally responsible companies adapting to or mitigating the development, acting as brokers or dealers of carbon credits, doing risks of climate change without compromising solid returns. The fund proprietary trading of credits, and bridging the gap between buyers focuses on companies that adopt technological and environmental and sellers of credits. practices that address the implications of climate change. It is diversified across nine climate-related areas, including clean fuels, SCOTIABANK IS A MEMBER OF: water and environmental finance. 16 2011 Scotiabank CSR Report CASE STUDY: SCOTIABANK PERU’S ENVIRONMENTAL STRATEGY Founded in 1943, Scotiabank Peru is the third largest bank in the country, with 182 branches and 507 automated banking machines. According to Fiorella Ceruti, Corporate Social Responsibility Manager, Scotiabank Peru, “The spirit of our approach is to have an overall commitment to the environment integrated into operations. We do this in three ways: donations to environmental causes, reducing our carbon footprint and building environmental awareness through education. All of this is backed by the Bank’s environmental policy, which we have adapted to the context of Peru.” One of the most interesting projects has been the development of Scotiabank Peru has also been a groundbreaker in carbon credits. a recycling system. “Recycling was not always part of our culture,” In fact, Scotiabank was the first bank in Peru to go carbon neutral, says Ceruti. Starting in April 2009, Scotiabank Peru began piloting the first company in Peru to purchase carbon credits and the first Grupo Scotiabank Ecoeficiente, an internal program to promote bank in Peru to measure and reduce its carbon footprint. Scotiabank environmental practices such as reducing the consumption of paper, purchased carbon credits from Maderacre, a sustainable forest electricity and water, as well as recycling paper, glass, plastic, cans, management firm that operates in the Iñapari communities in and organic waste in nine Scotiabank buildings in Lima, with more the Amazon. than 4,000 employees participating. Scotiabank Peru has also been focusing on projects that help The Bank formed an alliance with the non-profit organization Ciudad mitigate or adapt to climate change – particularly in rural farming Saludable whose work consist of formalizing independent street communities. For example, one project the Bank financed helped labourers into small businesses, collecting and selling recyclable farmers develop new strategies and alternative businesses to cope materials. Scotiabank set up recycling stations in its offices and with reductions in water available for irrigation. The target was to encourages participation in the program through training workshops help farmers increase their income by 25%, but now that the project for cleaning and maintenance staff and Bank leaders, who promote is in its third year, the 250 families that are participating have seen a the program among their peers. 100% increase in income. On a corporate level, Scotiabank Peru has trained over 250 As Ceruti explains, “We are passionate about real, sustainable employees in sessions on risks and opportunities. “We now see so change so we look for projects that build long-term skills that will many more great business opportunities in environmental markets help people confront not just current, but future challenges.” and the green economy than we ever did before,” says Ceruti. Photo: Scotiabank Peru’s annual campaign ‘Calor Patrio’ helps communities affected by climate change to prepare and adapt to cold temperatures by focusing on improving health, hygiene and nutritional habits. This includes replacing agricultural crops to those that are more appropriate to the changing climate. Scotiabank CSR Report 2011 17 CSR COMMITTED TO MAKING A DIFFERENCE STRATEGY 3 PRINCIPLE 1 Communities Examples of 2011 Bright Future initiatives: Health t Scotiabank Peru continues to support Agua Limpia (Clean Water), a non-profit organization that helps local governments in Scotiabank makes contributions to communities across rural areas improve access to potable water and sanitation. Agua the globe through the Scotiabank Bright Future program. Limpia also offers education programs for families and children Donating time and support is part of the Bank’s about safe water usage, hygiene, nutrition and conservation. corporate culture. Education Global Donations: Scotiabank Bright Future Since the t Scotiabank supports scholarships for international students Bank’s inception, Scotiabankers have been giving back to their studying at the University of Waterloo, Faculty of Environment communities. Making a difference is part of the Bank’s culture. and St. Paul’s University College. The Scotiabank International Endowment will provide new international opportunities for Scotiabank Bright Future is the Bank’s global philanthropic vision. As Canadian students and attract more international students to a prominent multinational financial institution, the Bank’s reach has study in Waterloo, Canada. provided a unique opportunity to help people around the world. Scotiabank Bright Future brings together the passion of employees, Social Services the insight of partners and the spirit of communities. t In El Salvador, Scotiabank partners with A Roof For My Country, an NGO that builds houses for families in need with the help of Through Scotiabank Bright Future, the Bank’s charitable efforts volunteers. In 2011, Scotiabank participated in the sixth annual are aimed at being relevant and responsive to the needs of A Roof For My Country fundraising campaign called “¡Sigamos communities at the grassroots level, across six pillars: health, Construyendo El Salvador!” (Let’s Build El Salvador!). In addition education, social services, sports, arts and culture, and the to a corporate donation, customers, employees, suppliers and environment. friends contributed funds for the construction of emergency In 2011, the Bank contributed about CDN$50 million in donations, housing in poor communities. sponsorships and other forms of assistance. Arts and Culture t In Chile, Scotiabank supported modular teaching in the Performing Arts Training Hall of the Gabriela Mistral Cultural Centre. The Centre includes an arts library, five classrooms, a Launched in 2010, the Scotiabank & SIFE Go Green recording studio and a new home for the Museo de Arte Popular Challenge was designed to cultivate green leadership Americano of the Universidad de Chile. among university and college students in Canada. The Additional examples are available at students apply business concepts to develop outreach scotiabank.com/csr/community. We will begin reporting on projects in order to improve the quality of life and standard Sports and Environment in 2012. of living for people in need. Scotiabank employees are also involved. In 2011, 67 employees logged 413 volunteer hours in support of 540 students at 25 academic institutions. Over Employee Engagement In 2011, Scotiabank employees 60 innovative community projects were implemented in demonstrated incredible spirit and dedication by contributing more local communities, with significant environmental impact: than 360,000 hours of volunteering and fundraising time to local charities. As an organization, Scotiabank strongly supports t 118 tonnes of CO2 avoided; community engagement by employees and encourages their efforts t 1.7 tonnes of compost diverted; and through two programs: Team Scotia Community Program (TSCP) and t 710,000 litres of water conserved; the Scotia Employee Volunteer Program (SEVP). The Scotiabank & SIFE Go Green Challenge demonstrates The Team Scotia Community Program matches funds raised by that partnerships help to build a better, more sustainable employee teams. Through TSCP, the Bank matches up to world. CDN$5,000 raised by teams of five or more Scotiabank employees through their work with local charitable fundraising activities. 18 2011 Scotiabank CSR Report t For example: a team of 17 Scotiabank employees from Corporate donations in 2011 Huancayo, Peru contributed 189 volunteer hours to help raise 13% funds in support of the non-profit organization Leonardo Manuel, Health that supports the education, rehabilitation, recreation and medical 31% Social services 10% Education treatment of 33 disabled children. Funds raised by employees Arts & culture also provided medical operations, medicine and equipment to Other the children. 15% The Scotiabank Employee Volunteer Program provides donations to 31% community organizations where individual employees have been active volunteers. Individual employees or retirees who volunteered a minimum of 50 hours per year with a qualifying community-based Employee Perception of CSR 2011 Global organization can apply for a donation of up to CDN$1,000 from favourable score Benchmark the Bank. Scotiabank is socially and environmentally responsible 91% 86% t For example: Norman Locke, a personal banking officer in Long Through Scotiabank’s employee engagement index, employee perception of Scotiabank Pond, Newfoundland, has been volunteering with the Canadian being a socially and environmentally responsible organization is measured. Hemophilia Society for almost 20 years. The society seeks to This is a new metric for the Scotiabank Bright Future program. improve the quality of life for those suffering from inherited bleeding disorders. An SEVP grant supported the 2011 annual kids’ camp/family weekend. SCOTIABANK IS A MEMBER OF: Photo: Scotiabank volunteers Mona-Maria Metri and Nagesh Rao, at the Scotiabank Buskerfest, Toronto’s international street performer festival, which raises funds for Epilepsy. This festival is the largest of its kind in North America, showcasing hundreds of the most spectacular street performers in the world. Scotiabank CSR Report 2011 19 CASE STUDY: Global HIV-AIDS policy Scotiabank has a long history of supporting and working on HIV-AIDS initiatives. In 2005, with the leadership of the Bank’s President and CEO, Rick Waugh, the Bank set out a mandate to assist in the prevention and education of HIV-AIDS in the Caribbean. Since then, the Bank has been working on creating more awareness of HIV-AIDS, fighting the stigma and discrimination of this illness and supporting organizations that are working towards treatment and prevention. In 2011, the Bank introduced a global HIV-AIDS strategy. To help 2. Promoting Awareness and Education develop this strategy, Scotiabank worked in partnership with GBC t For example: Since 2008, the Caribbean Broadcast Media Health, an NGO that focuses on mobilizing the private sector Partnership on HIV-AIDS (CBMP) and Scotiabank, in collaboration to address global health challenges. Sancia Dalley, Manager, with regional Ministries of Health, have been hosting Regional Membership and Advisory Services, GBC Health, has stated: Testing Day. In 2011, 17 countries and 37 branches participated, “Scotiabank was the first North American bank to address HIV-AIDS helping more than 9,000 people get tested in the Caribbean. issues and it is now the first North American bank to take HIV-AIDS on as a global issue.” 3. Contributing Donations and Volunteering Scotiabank created three strategic pillars, which build upon the t For example: The Scotiabank AIDS Walk for Life, Canada’s Bank’s strengths and the passion and interest of employees: largest annual HIV-AIDS event, takes place in various cities and communities across Canada. Funds raised by the walk support 1. Fighting Stigma and Discrimination programs and services for people infected by HIV-AIDS. t For example: Scotiabank has Global Principles on HIV-AIDS or According to Dalley, the strategy is on track to succeed: “Scotiabank other life-threatening illnesses. These principles underscore is taking what they have already accomplished in the Caribbean one Scotiabank’s responsibility to provide a healthy workplace for step further. But I think it will succeed because the passion for this employees, free from discrimination, and to support employee issue is throughout the Bank, from the corporate leadership to the engagement and retention through a stable and valued workforce. local branch.” Photo: Senior Personal Banking Assistant Donia Benjamin and Marcelle Greenidge, Manager Marketing, at the Broad Street branch in Barbados, applying red swatches to a large ribbon to symbolise how people tested for HIV on Regional Testing Day would mark the occasion. 20 2011 Scotiabank CSR Report Appendix Scope of reporting This annual report includes information from November 1, 2010, to October 31, 2011, for the following affiliates of the Bank in Canada: Scotia Capital Inc., The Mortgage Insurance Company of Canada, National Trust Company, Scotia Mortgage Corporation, Scotia General Insurance Company, Maple Trust Company, Dundee Bank of Canada, Montreal Trust Company of Canada, Scotia Life Insurance Company, The Bank of Nova Scotia Trust Company, RoyNat Inc., RoyNat Capital Inc., and Scotia Merchant Capital Corporation. Key economic, social and environmental performance indicators1 Number of employees in Canada* Performance Full-time Part-time Total Bright Future Indicators 2009 2010 2011 Alberta 2,597 1,200 3,797 Total donations & sponsorships (global) $39 million $50 million $50 million Number of global employee volunteer hours through British Columbia 2,294 1,190 3,484 formal community involvement programs 299,000 hours 324,000 hours1 360,000 hours Manitoba 513 223 736 Employee Engagement Survey question: New Brunswick 552 317 869 “Scotiabank group is socially and environmentally responsible”2 N/A N/A 91% favourable Newfoundland & Labrador 519 252 771 Economic Indicators Nova Scotia 1,359 583 1,942 Salaries & employee benefits (global) $4.3 billion $4.6 billion $5.4 billion Northwest Territories 12 1 13 Debt financing to business (Canada) over $86 billion over $83 billion over $90 billion Ontario 20,840 4,843 25,683 Taxes (global) $1.9 billion $2.5 billion $2.4 billion Prince Edward Island 113 59 172 Amount spent on goods & services from suppliers (global) $3.1 billion $3.0 billion $3.5 billion Quebec 1,800 490 2,290 Return on equity 16.7% 18.3% 18.8% Saskatchewan 471 332 803 Social Indicators Yukon Territories 15 12 27 Investment in employee training (global) $56 million $74 million $65 million Employee satisfaction (global) 86% 85% 85% Total 31,085 9,502 40,587 Women in senior management (global) 22% 22.6% 23.5% Total full-time equivalent 33,367 Women in senior management (Canada) 32% 33.1% 33.6% *As at October 31, 2011, there were 1,239 contract employees, Visible minorities in senior management (Canada) 11.6% 12% 9.5% representing 3.0% of the total Canadian Workforce, and 3,199 casual employees, representing 7.9% of the total Aboriginal employees (Canada) 1.1% 1.1% 1.1% Canadian Workforce. Employees with disabilities (Canada) 4.2% 4% 3.8% Locations serving Aboriginal customers (Canada) 233 23 22 Environmental Indicators Energy consumption (Canada) 953,292 GJs 1,019,330 GJs4 1,008,610 GJs Greenhouse gas emissions (Canada) 59,617 tonnes 54,362 tonnes 55,168 tonnes Business travel (air/rail) 32,746,696 km5 50,078,224km 57,813,611km Paper consumption 4,760 tonnes 4,319 tonnes 4,899 tonnes Paper shredding/recycling (Canada) 5,056 tonnes 5,050 tonnes 4,237 tonnes Environmental disposal of computer equipment 18,769 items 4,748 items 4,384 items (1) This is a restated number. (2) This metric was introduced in 2011. (3) This is a restated number. (4) While our GHG emissions decreased by 9% our consumption in GJ increased due to additional locations (5) Estimated based on calendar year totals. Scotiabank changed providers in Q4 of fiscal 2009, therefore, a total for the fiscal year was not available. 2011 taxes Scotiabank incurs a number of taxes, including direct taxes on income by Canadian federal and provincial governments and the governments of foreign jurisdictions in which the Bank operates, as well as several indirect taxes. In 2011 this totaled $2.4 billion (taxable equivalent basis), representing 34 per cent of the Bank’s pre-tax income for the year. Total expenses (recoveries) to all levels of government in Canada are shown in the chart. For additional information on the Bank’s tax expenses in 2011, please refer to Table 53 in Scotiabank’s 2011 Annual Report, available online at scotiabank.com. Taxes in Canada Taxes in foreign regions (As at October 31, 2011) Income Capital Other (As at October 31, 2011) Income ($ thousands) taxes taxes taxes(1) ($ thousands) taxes Federal 342,635 0 196,108 Asia Pacific 67,546 Provincial Caribbean & Latin America 422,565 Newfoundland 4,602 6,221 3,589 Europe & Middle East 27,920 Prince Edward Island 1,165 997 121 United States 248,453 Nova Scotia 11,196 7,333 5,772 Total 766,484 New Brunswick 3,751 2,840 2,159 Quebec 21,294 289 15,759 Ontario 199,368 0 202,493 Manitoba 4,571 5,202 1,687 Saskatchewan 3,923 5,334 748 Alberta 21,537 0 4,782 British Columbia 28,491 0 9,311 Territories 681 0 27 Total provinces 300,579 28,216 246,428 Total 643,214 28,216 442,536 Scotiabank CSR Report 2011 21 (1) includes payroll taxes, GST, HST, municipal taxes and deposit insurance premiums. Branches/Offices/ABMs Scotiabank’s strong customer focus and commitment to improving sales and service includes maintaining a strong branch network as part of its overall delivery strategy. The Bank currently has 1,029 branches and 2,998 ABMs in Canada. In 2011, as part of our expansion plans, we opened 11 new branches. With all branches that were closed or consolidated, we worked closely with our customers and the community to ensure a smooth transition and to continue to find ways to meet their needs. The important thing is to balance solutions that are right for the individual community and our customers. Scotiabank Branches Opened ABM installations and de-installations* (cont’d) Alberta 510-151 Walden Gate SE, Calgary ABMs de-installed (cont’d) 404-8888 Country Hills Boulevard NW, Calgary Ontario 5003 Lakeshore Dr., Sylvan lake British Columbia 5960 University Blvd, Vancouver 2385 City Park Dr., Ottawa #3030 8882-170 St., Edmonton 3090 Carling Ave., Ottawa Nova Scotia 421 Lahave Street, Bridgewater* British Columbia 3201 Stranderd Dr., Nepean 20090 91A Ave., Langlet 1213 Division St., Kingston Ontario 929 Southdale Road West, London 110 2189 Springfield Rd., Kelowna 705 Bath Rd., Kingston 9301 Bathurst Street, Richmond Hill 32555 London Ave. Suite 700, Mission Hwy. 48 Durham 23, Pefferlaw 3000 Thomas Street, Mississauga 2929 Barnet Hwy., Coquitlam 6815 Stanley Ave., Niagara Falls 1947 Ravenscroft Road, Ajax 170 Schoolhouse St., Coquitlam 18151 Yonge St., East Gwillimbury 620 Scott Boulevard, Milton 10785 King George Hwy., Surrey 8725 Yonge St., Richmond Hill 279 King Street East, Toronto 4700 Kingsway Ave. 3555 Hwy 7 W., Woodbridge 130-555 West 12TH Ave., Vancouver 320 Bayfield St., Barrie Quebec 451 Rue Des Migrateurs, Terrebonne 142111 Entertainment Way, Richmond 309 Rathburn Rd. W., Mississauga 300 Colonnade Drive, Kemptville** 6911 No. 3 Rd., Richmond 3055 Vega Blvd., Mississauga Saskatchewan 4510 Gordon Road, Regina 710 Granville St. #02R, Vancouver 50 Great Lakes Dr., Brampton * New branch as a result of consolidation. 677 Davie St., Vancouver 771 Golf Links Rd, Ancaster ** New branch as a result of relocation. 800 Robson St., Vancouver 22 Lebovic Ave., Scarborough 900 Burrard St., Vancouver 300 Borough Dr. Unit 765, Scarborough 2055 Purcall Way, North Vancouver 1800 Sheppard Ave. E., Toronto Scotiabank Branches Closed, Relocated or Consolidated 1065 Lahakas Blvd., Kitimat 1120 Finch Ave Suite 202, Toronto British Columbia 555 West 12th Avenue, Vancouver 550 Bay St., Victoria 2300 Yonge St., Toronto 3130 Trilicum Rd., Victoria 259 Richmond St. W., Toronto New Brunswick 3982 Main Street, Jacquet River 4461 Interurban Rd., Victoria 3401 Dufferin St,Yorkdale mall, North York 1702 Bowen Rd., Nanaimo 1025 The Queensway, Etobicoke Newfoundland P.O. Box 130, Churchill Falls Manitoba 75 King St. S., Waterloo Nova Scotia 199 Dominion Street, Bridgewater 160 1255 St. Mary’s Rd., Winnipeg 300 King George Rd., Brandord 421 Lahave Street, Bridgewater* 817 St. James, Winnipeg 1680 Richmond St., London 4611 Walker Rd., Windsor Ontario 320 Bayfield Street, Barrie* New Brunswick 355 Barrydowne Rd., Sudbury 139 Prescott Street, Kemptville** 438 Coverdale Rd., Riverview 850 North May St., Thunder Bay 1867 Yonge Street, Toronto 5 Rd. 172, Upper Letang Québec * Closure as a result of consolidation. Nova Scotia 4825 Ave. Pierre De Coubertin, Montreal ** Closure as a result of relocation. 6177 Main St., Kennetcook 1080 Cote du Beaver Hall Hill, Montreal 2710 Main St., Aylesford 977 SteCatherine W., Montreal 99 Atlantic St., Cornwallis 2800 Cosmodome St. Laval ABM installations and de-installations* 9301 Bathurst St. Unit #13, 272B Prince St., Sydney 3200 Rue Jean Yves, Kirkland Richmond Hill 199 Dominion St., Bridgewater 207 Mont Bleu Blvd., Gatuneau ABMs installed 3000 Thomas St., Mississauga Alberta 325 Dundas St. E., Oakville * The list includes a number of locations where ABMs were installed, de-installed or consolidated. 510-151 Walden Gate SE., Calgary 3550 Queen St.E., Brampton 3808 Bow Tr. SW., Calgary 620 Scott Blvd., Milton 404-8888 Country Hills Blvd NW., 279 King St.E., Toronto Calgary 50 Bay St., Toronto 416 Spadina Rd., Toronto British Columbia Voluntary codes of conduct and public commitments* 2562 Weston Rd., Weston 325 Boul. De La Marine, Varennes 190 Westmount Rd. N., Waterloo Scotiabank is committed to a number of voluntary codes of conduct and public 8236 Eagle Landings Pkwy. Unit 100, 929 Southdale Rd. W., London commitments designed to protect consumer interests. Chilliwack 397 Bayfield Rd., Goderich 14780 108th Ave & 148th St., Surrey 5555 Ojibway Pkwy, Windsor These include: t -PX'FF3FUBJM%FQPTJU DDPVOU 30362 Fraser Hwy (Mt Lehman), Abbotsford t Canadian Code of Practice for Memorandum of Understanding 5960 University Blvd., Vancouver Quebec Consumer Debit Card Services t 7*4 ;FSP-JBCJMJUZ1PMJDZBOE7*4 3790 Quadra St., Victoria 451 Rue des Migrateurs, Terrebonne t $PEFPG$POEVDUGPSUIF$SFEJUBOE E-Promise 3480 Rue McTavish, Montreal Manitoba Debit Car Industry in Canada t 6OEFSUBLJOH1SJODJQBM1SPUFDUFE 108 Greber Blvd., Gatineau 300 Portage Ave., Winnipeg 127 Front St., Alymer t (VJEFMJOFTGPS5SBOTGFSTPG Notes Regulations Registered Plans t 0OMJOF1BZNFOUT Nova Scotia Saskatchewan t $# $PEFPG$POEVDUGPS t 3FEVDFEDIFRVFIPMEQFSJPET 6203 HWY 354 General Delivery, 4510 Gordon Rd., Regina Authorized Insurance Activities Kennetcook 1828 Mccormand Dr., Saskatoon t 1SJODJQMFTPG$POTVNFS1SPUFDUJPOGPS * For a copy of the full text of the codes and Ontario Electronic Commerce: A Canadian commitments, refer to www.scotiabank.com, 25 Sacre Coeur Blvd., Hull ABMs de-installed Framework Customer Care page. Visit the websites of 119 Mann Ave., Ottawa Alberta t .PEFM$PEFPG$POEVDUGPS the Financial Consumer Agency of Canada 655 Bronson Ave., Ottawa 5401 51ST St., Grimshaw Bank Relations with Small and (www.fcac-acfc.gc.ca) and the Canadian 1435 Caldwell Ave., Ottawa 3001 Dunmore Rd. SE., Medicine Hat Medium-sized Businesses Bankers Association (www.cba.ca) for 1 Chartewell Ave., Nepean 400 2555 32nd St. NE., Calgary t 1MBJO-BOHVBHF.PSUHBHF more detailed information on consumer 1350 Taunton Rd. E., Oshawa 3330 17TH Ave. SE., Calgary Documents – CBA Commitment protection. 1947 Ravenscroft Rd., Ajax 703 42nd Ave. SE., Calgary t 6OEFSUBLJOHPO6OTPMJDJUFE4FSWJDFT 6815 Stanely Ave., Niagara Falls 6455 Macleod Tr. SW., Calgary International Centre, 573 Glendridge ave B, 12550 Symons Valley Rd., Calgary St.Catherines 22 2011 Scotiabank CSR Report Debt financing Scotiabank is committed to meeting the needs of Canadian businesses, including small and medium enterprises. The following charts indicate – by province and for Canada as a whole – the amount of business credit authorized and outstanding, as of Oct. 31, 2011, and the number of customers to whom it was authorized. Authorization $0 $24,999 $25,000 $99,999 $100,000 $249,999 $250,000 $499,999 levels of: Authorized Outstanding Authorized Outstanding Authorized Outstanding Authorized Outstanding $ thousands $ thousands Customers $ thousands $ thousands Customers $ thousands $ thousands Customers $ thousands $ thousands Customers British Columbia 101,634 56,187 15,413 277,387 140,463 6,126 291,912 170,897 1,940 288,257 188,038 858 and Yukon* Alberta & NWT** 483,282 107,994 77,575 535,319 195,593 12,547 359,214 202,311 2,406 366,603 229,442 1,084 Saskatchewan 30,441 16,355 3,677 122,666 65,935 2,636 132,112 82,240 873 102,512 73,922 304 Manitoba 102,884 26,418 9,551 793,595 237,564 15,303 767,216 367,342 5,967 212,996 129,109 645 Ontario 313,163 131,379 50,399 985,460 488,394 21,209 1,156,827 684,984 7,663 1,141,113 763,354 3,389 Quebec 85,339 64,049 11,061 225,168 149,497 4,977 206,956 136,376 1,360 200,347 139,116 595 New Brunswick 19,589 7,996 2,780 71,383 35,180 1,512 73,185 45,522 484 37,515 26,979 116 Nova Scotia 31,994 13,101 4,528 118,541 65,354 2,465 140,749 88,669 930 158,139 102,836 465 P.E.I. 5,241 2,372 654 22,856 11,853 458 23,788 15,102 155 16,678 11,805 51 Newfoundland 21,213 8,200 2,980 84,529 38,829 1,857 65,086 36,935 437 41,923 27,829 128 Canada 1,194,780 434,051 178,618 3,236,904 1,428,662 69,090 3,217,045 1,830,378 22,215 2,566,083 1,692,430 7,635 Authorization $500,000 $999,999 $1,000,000 $4,999,999 Authorization over $5,000,000 levels of: Authorized Outstanding Authorized Outstanding levels of: Authorized Outstanding $ thousands $ thousands Customers $ thousands $ thousands Customers $ thousands $ thousands Customers British Columbia 263,571 183,786 400 678,666 419,316 329 British Columbia 3,183,314 1,428,393 127 and Yukon* and Yukon* Alberta, 313,412 187,032 493 814,120 467,722 376 Alberta, 12,497,136 5,212,297 283 Saskatchewan Saskatchewan and NWT*** and NWT*** Manitoba 150,761 75,359 245 264,020 163,314 136 Manitoba 751,507 267,673 27 Ontario 1,027,780 725,020 1,514 3,993,470 2,889,613 1,804 Ontario 46,835,030 19,674,924 1,159 Quebec 226,334 157,788 337 819,904 540,918 370 Quebec 5,320,468 2,682,807 184 New Brunswick, 231,758 145,197 338 809,531 522,747 395 New Brunswick, 2,315,200 1,434,173 123 Nova Scotia, Nova Scotia, P.E.I. and P.E.I. and Newfoundland**** Newfoundland**** Canada 2,213,616 1,474,182 3,327 7,379,711 5,003,630 3,410 Canada 70,902,655 30,700,267 1,903 Note: for reasons of client confidentiality, we have combined the following: * Yukon Territory with British Columbia. ** Northwest Territories with Alberta. *** Northwest Territories, Saskatchewan and Alberta. **** New Brunswick, Prince Edward Island, Newfoundland and Nova Scotia. CUSTOMERS Customer complaint resolution A clear and effective complaint resolution process is essential to our financial success and to being a responsible organization. Our statistical data and complaint resolution process are outlined below. Internationally, Scotiabank follows a similar process, which may vary according to country regulatory requirements or local needs. 2009 2010 2011 Complaint resolution process Number of customer complaints received by Office of the President 10,470 10,123 10,445* Percentage of customers surveyed who were fully satisfied with the handling of their complaint 89% 88% 82%** *Represents total number of Office of the President complaints out of more than 19 million customers. Complaints are categorized by service, credit, policy, pricing, compliance, documentation and other in order to review for trends and recommend changes. **Based on surveys of 1,095 customers. Overview of Scotiabank’s microfinance services Total loans (CDN) Average loan size (CDN) # of customers Chile (Banco del Desarrollo) $60 million $2,960 20,294 Dominican Republic $31 million $2,150 14,400 Guatemala $41 million $3,090 13,090 Jamaica $0.4 million $300 1,400 Peru $458 million $3,700 124,000 Total $590 million 173,184 * We define microfinance clients as self-employed or micro-business owners with annual revenues below US$100,000. Scotiabank CSR Report 2011 23 CUSTOMERS Access to financial services Financial institutions play a critical role in creating access to financial services, especially for groups with special needs, including youth, seniors, the economically disadvantaged and new Canadians. Scotiabank has developed customized products, services and financial education programs in a number of markets to help improve access to these services. CUSTOMER SEGMENT: ALL CUSTOMER SEGMENT: ABORIGINALS Basic banking: Scotiabank Basic Banking Account (Canada). Basic banking: ώ We operate four on-reserve branches and a network of 22 Aboriginal banking Savings, investment & credit: centres (Canada). ώ Bank the Rest Savings Program (Canada) helps customers improve their savings habits while making everyday debit purchases. Savings, investment & credit: ώ Scotia Power Savings Account provides an online, high-interest savings option. ώ Special GIC offer and no-fee for one-year chequing account for recipients of ώ The Scotia Global Climate Change Fund allows customers to invest in companies residential school settlement program (Canada). We provide niche on-reserve that will help mitigate the impact of climate change. lending programs to individuals and band councils across Canada. Financial literacy: Financial literacy: ώ Financial education seminars by Scotiabankers are offered in many locations, including ώ Scotiabank sponsored CESO financial workshops for more than 1,000 residential communities in Canada, El Salvador, Guyana, Bahamas and St. Kitts and Nevis. school settlement recipients (Canada). ώ Financial education tools on scotiabank.com (e.g., Banking Lingo 101, Understanding Credit). CUSTOMER SEGMENT: SMALL BUSINESS Basic banking: CUSTOMER SEGMENT: YOUTH ώ Branch based Small Business advisors proactively deliver practical tools, Basic banking: resources and banking services that help Small Businesses grow and succeed. ® ώ The Student Banking Advantage plan (Canada) provides no-fee banking plan Savings, investment & credit: with unlimited debit transactions for full-time university or college students. ώ Running Start for business offers a package of services and resources to ώ Getting There Savings Program Youth (Canada) is a no-fee plan with unlimited start-ups. debit transactions for children under 19 years of age. ώ Scotia Professional Plan is customized to meet the needs of professionals. Savings, investment & credit: ώ Scotia Flex and Scotia One Account Plan for agriculture for agricultural clients. ώ L’earn Visa card for students provides benefits including no annual fee, ώ Scotia Power Savings for business – a new high interest savings option for accelerated Moneyback rewards program and up to a 21-day interest-free grace businesses. period on purchases. Financial literacy: ώ Scotiabank Educational Savings Plan is available in 17 Caribbean and Central ώ Scotiabanks on-line Small Business community, Get Growing for Business proAmerican countries vides articles, video coaching, webinars, tools and a daily blog which provides ώ Scotiabank Be Money Plan (Trinidad and Tobago) offers a high-interest savings advice and information on a wide range of Small Business topics from Managing account with no banking fees for full-time students. Cashflow to dealing with new technology. Financial literacy: ώ Scotiabank sponsored a college/university student financial literacy program in CUSTOMER SEGMENT: MICRO BUSINESS Ontario, Canada, which included a 15 campus speaking tour attended by 6,000 students. As well 6,000 companion books were provided and a website Microfinance operations in Chile, Peru, Jamaica, Dominican Republic and was developed. Guatemala manage microfinance subsidiaries with outstanding credit balances of more than US$420.5 million, and financial literacy and business planning resources in select countries. CUSTOMER SEGMENT: SENIORS Basic banking: ώ In Canada, customers aged 59 or over can request enrollment into the Scotia Plus Program for Seniors’, a no-fee banking plan with unlimited debit transactions plus other free or discounted services on eligible accounts. Savings, investment & credit: ώ Helpful online RRIF/LIF/LRIF illustrator tool, literature and advice available for seniors. Financial literacy: ώ We provide an in-depth Tax Free Savings Account Information Centre in Canada, with tailored content for retirees, at scotiabank.com CUSTOMER SEGMENT: NEW CANADIANS Scotiabank StartRight program (Canada) – easier access to credit for newcomers, free day-to-day banking for one year and a multilingual website that provides links to settlement assistance and newcomer financial resources. CORPORATE HEADQUARTERS Scotiabank, Scotia Plaza, 44 King St. W., Toronto, Ontario Canada M5H 1H1 Tel: (416) 866-6161, Fax: (416) 866-3750 E-mail: email@scotiabank.com For further information contact: Public, Corporate and Government Affairs, Scotiabank, 44 King St. W., Toronto, Ontario Canada M5H 1H1 E-mail: corporate_communications@scotiacapital.com. 24 2011 Scotiabank CSR Report EMPLOYEES Diversity highlights at Scotiabank Scotiabank’s global salaries and benefits Scotiabank has been tracking female representation at the VP+ level globally since 2007, and is currently 2011 ($millions) exploring tracking other diversity groups from a global perspective. Salaries $3,018 Government Performance-based compensation $1,349 2009 2010 2011 benchmark** Stock-based compensation $257 Visible minorities (Canada) 22.0% 23.8% 24.6% 20.4% Pensions and other employee benefits $775 Visible minorities in senior Total $5,399 management (Canada) 11.6% 11.5% 9.5% 8.7% Women (Canada) 70.1% 69.4% 68.4% 62.2% Total voluntary1 turnover of high-performing Women in senior management (Canada)* 32.0% 33.1% 33.6% 24.2% employees2 (Canada) Women in VP+ positions (Global) 22.1% 22.6% 23.5% NA 2009 2010 2011 Persons with disabilities (Canada) 4.2% 4.0% 3.8% 4.2% 2.6% 3.3% 3.7% Aboriginals (Canada) 1.1% 1.1% 1.1% 1.7% (1) Voluntary denotes those who have left due to resignation, * 2011 data exclude provincially regulated Scotia/McLeod and Roynat Capital employees. voluntary settlement, or contract expiration ** This is a tailored availability rate derived from the 2006 Census that is customized to the banking environment and is (2) High-performing are those who have received performance calculated by looking at specific occupations where Scotiabank has employees. ratings of either “exceptional” or “superior” the highest rating categories ENVIRONMENT Scotiabank Canadian paper consumption (tonnes) Scotiabank bond copy paper consumption Paper % change 2010/11 classification 2009 2010 2011 (decrease) FSC** in international locations in 2011 2/5 of highest 2011 Business forms* 2,824 2,610 3,186 22.10 volume items Mexico 558.85 Business cards 7 7 9 28.60 100% Peru 207.4 Letterhead 10 12 13 8.30 100% Chile 183.6 Bond copy paper 1,651 1,560*** 1,516 (2.82) 100% Costa Rica 36.7 Annual reports 85 75 83 10.70 100% Total weight (tonnes) 986.55 Marketing direct mail 183 165 92 (44.20) 100% Total weight (tonnes) 4,760 4,429 4,899**** 10.61 Consumption per employee 0.15 0.13 0.14 * Scotiabank uses more than 4,500 different kinds of forms, but the majority fall into five categories: regular format, high speed printer/ABM rolls, snap sets (carbonless), envelopes and companion booklets. Currently, two of these categories – envelopes and account companion booklets – use FSC paper. ** Forest Stewardship Council (FSC) certified paper, a stringent system for guiding responsible forest management, guarantees that paper is produced in a way that conserves biological diversity and fragile ecosystems, ensures social responsibility and respects the rights of First Nations peoples and local communities. *** The 2010 number is restated based on supplier error. **** The increases are due to materials required for new branches and mergers, as well as rebranding and telephone number updates. Scotiabank maintains an ongoing commitment to operating in an energy-efficient manner to minimize our carbon footprint. Measuring energy consumption (Canada) 2011 greenhouse gas emissions 2011 energy consumption Source CO2 emissions* (metric tonnes) Type of Consumption Total Consumption Branches /Owned Indirect CO2 produced from energy unit consumption per sq. metre office electricity and steam purchases 34,647 buildings Direct CO2 emissions produced Electricity Megawatt hours 191,860 0.28 904 / 40 from combustion of fuels 16,254 Steam Pounds (1,000s) 14,673 0.36 0/1 Indirect CO2 emissions produced from employee air travel 4,267** Natural gas Cubic metres 8,079,867 15.47 638 / 32 Total CO2 footprint 55,168 Fuel oil Litres 303,970 18.83 38 / 0 Propane Litres 54,927 27.82 7/0 Measuring energy consumption (Mexico, Jamaica, Costa Rica, El Salvador, Peru and Chile) 2011 greenhouse gas emissions 2011 energy consumption Source CO2 emissions* (metric tonnes) Type of Consumption Total Consumption Branches /Owned energy unit consumption per sq. metre office Indirect CO2 produced from buildings electricity purchases 44,913 Electricity Megawatt hours 115,034 0.20 1,281 / 94 Direct CO2 emissions produced from combustion of fuels 366 Natural gas Cubic metres 21,464 16.26 0/1 Indirect CO2 emissions produced Propane Litres 90,440 14.76 0/3 from employee air travel 5,174** Gas/Diesel Litres 66,590 0.49 0/4 Total CO2 footprint 50,453 Notes: * Calculated in accordance with the Greenhouse Gas 1. The above information was collected from the best available data and methodologies, which includes information captured Protocol of the World Resources Institute and the from invoices processed for payment from various utility vendors. Given the scope of the system implementation underWorld Business Council for Sustainable Development taken, we expect to continue refining systems and processes going forward. (www.ghgprotocol.org), including emission factors 2. Our Canadian report is based on 904 owned and leased retail locations and the space occupied by the Bank in 40 office for electricity purchases, natural gas and fuel. buildings across Canada, representing approximately 700,000 square meters. This area varies depending on utility type. ** Indirect CO2 emissions for employee air travel are 3. Our Mexico, Jamaica, Costa Rica, El Salvador, Peru and Chile report is based on 1,281 retail locations and the space occupied by allocated to each reporting segment based on employee the Bank in 94 office buildings representing approximately 565,000 square meters. This area varies depending on utility type. population. FLOORPLAN Your home has an impact on the environment. Save money and the environment at ecoliving.scotiabank.com ® Registered Trademark of The Bank of Nova Scotia. TM Trademark of the Bank Nova Scotia. 9478219
