BrandMus scle, Inc. Overview O BrandMusccle, Inc. (“Co ompany” or “BrandMusc “ le”) is the leeading provid der of comprehensive, automated d local marke eting service es that enablle global braands to effecctively and e efficiently decentralizze all sales and marketin ng initiatives to better taarget local auudiences. The Companyy was founded inn 2000 and iss headquarte ered in Beacchwood, Ohi o. BrandMuscle continues to experiencee rapid growtth and curre ently employ ys approximaately 150 em mployees com mprised of software engineers, cliient service executives, e graphic ope ration specia alists, media a buyers and d planners and administrrative suppo ort including sales and m marketing, hu uman resourrces and fina ance. BrandMusccle’s local ma arketing solu utions were developed to orate marketts address some o help corpo of the bigg gest challeng ges faced todday, includin ng: • Empowering local stake eholders with h the distrib buted marketting tools annd resourcess they needed to drive d more sales s • Enabling brrand-complia ant, local cusstomization and deliveryy of an incre easing numbe er of print and diigital media channels • Improving thet way adv vertising perfforms in locaal markets • Increasing speed-to-ma arket with ne ew messagin ng and creattive • Reducing th he cost and inefficiencies related to versioning a ad creative ffor local marrkets • Eliminating errors and issues i with legal disclaim mers • Controlling corporate brand identity y across salees channels Commitm ment to Sus stainability BrandMusccle’s core sett of values are a founded in the theorries surround ding sustainaable growth and developme ent. By not only by reducing internal environmeental waste,, the Compa any reduces the burden of its Clients. BrandMusccle’s suite of digital offerrings will help a range off Clients – in ncluding corp porate office es, hisee’s, sharreholders and stakeholde local franch ers – to redu uce operatio onal and envvironmental costs. By providing p p ding digital products, acccess to lead thee all ranges o of the client base can exxpect to gain conntinued deve elopment wh hile decreasing the strain n on environnmental resoources. The Compa any’s produccts will increasingly expa and the spheere of influenence of Brand dMuscle while enabling Clients to reach their bussiness and su ustainability goals. United Na ations Glob bal Compac ct Participa ation and C Commitmen nts (UNGC Committee e) With respeect to human n rights, labo our, environm ment and an nti-corruption, BrandMusscle firmly believes in and supporrts the ten gu uiding princiiples of the GGlobal Comp pact. BrandMuscle th establishedd membership to the UN NGC on May 26 , 2008 aand continue es to increasse sustainablle operations. The Comp pany utilizes UNGC’s prin nciples and ccore values a as a policy framework fo or the development, implementation and disclosu ure of sustai nability principles and p practices. HUMAN RIGHTS R At BrandMuscle, it is thhe Company y’s mission and viewpoin nt to activelyy encourage its clients, employees and partners to respectt human righ hts, avoid haarm to peop ple, and maxximize positivve contributio ons. The Com mpany believes that its daily practicces embrace and celebra ate human rights. n outlined in the Emplo Although not oyee Handbo ook, it is BraandMuscle po olicy supporrt all principles defined witthin the coree values of Human H Rightts. The Com mpany does not participa ate or suppo ort neither forcced or comp pulsory labouur nor child labour. Add ditionally, BraandMuscle e encourages clients and vendors to support these same values. In conjunction with priinciples identified under the Human Rights value e, BrandMusscle has defined and distributed a policyy handbook which addre esses, but arre not limite ed to, the following componentts: Upholding g a Safe Workplace The Comp pany protectts employee es’ human rights by m maintaining a strict po olicies prohib biting misconductt in the work kplace. Policcies addresss a range of concepts inccluding: • Policy again nst Harassme ent • Personal Coonduct on th he Job • Weapons att the Workplace • Business Coonduct Nondiscriiminatory Practices P BrandMusccle strongly believes b thatt all personss are entitledd to equal emmployment o opportunitiess and does not unlawfully discriminate d against its employeess or applicants because e of race, ccolor, religion, gender, preg gnancy, natiional origin,, ancestry, age, marita al status, disability, ve eteran status, sexxual orientattion, and any other ch haracteristic protected b by law. Eq qual employyment opportunityy is extended to all perssons in all asspects of thee employer-e employee re elationship, tto the full extent that the laww requires. The Compa any providess reasonable e accommodation to qua alified disabled appplicants andd employeess. Code of Conduct C The Compa any publishees and adheres to the po olicies defineed in the Emmployee Han ndbook. In order to supportt and protecct its employees as we ell as its sph here of influuence, Brand dMuscle forrmally addresses the guiding principles set forth by the t United N Nations Glob bal Compactt. Employee es are required to t policies outlined o adhere to the o while in the wo ork place and d beyond. LABOUR The creativ ve and entreepreneurial spirit s is criticcal to the cuulture of BraandMuscle. T This spirit guides e the way employees act, a think annd provide service to iits businesss. Thereforre, the Com mpany believes thhe success and happinesss of employ yees is param mount to the e culture of the office an nd its operations. Communiity Relation ns Program m (PIVOTS Committee C e) BrandMusccle is committted to building and maintaining a p positive role in the commmunities in w which it does bussiness. Its philanthropic p committee leads initiatiives which transform BrandMuscle successes into positivee wins for thee community y. Employeees are encou uraged to voolunteer for organizatioons of their choice c on co ompany time e. In June 2011, BrandMu uscle was thhe recipient of o the Richa rd Shatten C Civic Distincttion Award a as part of the 2011 Crain’’s Leading EDGE Awardss. This awarrd recognize es a Leading EDGE hono ored company that demonsttrates a stro ong love for thet region b by giving bacck to the commmunity. 20 011 initiatives include: • Ronald McDDonald Partn nership • Food Drivess • Holiday Giving Tree • Meal Preparration and Serving S Wellness Program (Health and d Wellness Committee e) At BrandMuscle, the im mportance off the physica al and mentaal well-being g of its employees is significantly consideredd. Thereforee, BrandMusccle contributtes to the co ost of prograams such as health clubb membershiips, smoking p g cessation programs, annd Yoga classses to help keep emplo oyees feeling mottivated and free of menttal distractio on. 2011 inittiatives inclu ude: • Cleveland Corporate C Ch hallenge BrandMusclle funded pa articipation in n the annua l Cleveland C Corporate ch hallenge. Th he Company re ecognized ap pproximately y 35% empl oyee particip pation. • Health and Wellness Aw wareness BrandMusclle provided free f access to t Health Sccreenings and Flu Shots. The Company recognized approximate ely 50% employee particcipation. • Pedometer Program Performance and Le earning Cen nter Manag gement Sysstems BrandMusccle believes professional p developmen nt relies on cconstant fee edback of pe erformance a as well as acccess to continued educattional opporttunities. • Learningg Manageme ent System The BraandMuscle Pe erformance and Learnin g Center wa as launched in July 2011 1. This sysstem offers all a employee es access to hundreds off courses on n a diverse numberr of topics. Employees E gain g knowled dge in varied d topics inclu uding but no ot limited to: t Accounting and Finance, Businesss and Profe essional Skills, Compliancce and Sennsitivity, Cusstomer Servicce, Managem ment and Le eadership MuscleNo otes Employeess thank and commend c te eammates fo or jobs well d done by read ding a “BranndMuscle” no ote at weekly Company C meeetings. Reccognized recipients havee a chance to o win great pprizes, includ ding gift cards for f gas, dinn ner, coffee an nd more. ENVIRON NMENT At BrandMuscle, emplo oyees have dedicated d themselves to o making gre eener decisio ons at work, at home and within the community. 2011 initiatiives include:: • Voluntary Recycling R Pro ogram Due to incre eased volum me in recyclable goods, tthe Companyy’s Recycling g Program grew from a man nual drop-offf at a design nated recyclin ng center (laaunch in 200 08) to a biweekly pickup serv vice. The op pt-out prograam recognizeed over 80% % volunteerissm for on-sitte employees. • Lunch-and-Learn Inform mation Sessiions Sigma Gree en Energy prresented quick tips for eemployees to o become mo ore energy efficient, su ustainable an nd green at home. By taaking these simple and easy measures, employees would save in costs while being envvironmentallyy friendly. • Facility Costt Reduction Although BrrandMuscle utilities are fixed f price aand the Com mpany cannott measure o or realize cost savings due e to decreased consump ption, the Coompany retro ofitted all lighting during a reccent expansion. • Material Cost Reduction n BrandMusclle has implem mented strategic green awareness p programs. B By renaming g all printers from technical names to tre ee names an nd retrofitted to duplex trays, employees are reminde ed to conside er the enviro onmental impacts of eacch documentt printed. Ad dditionally, thhe Company y transitioned d from bulk office paperr to Domtar Earth Choicce for all a majority m of internal printi ng. Domtarr Earth Choicce® is third party certifiied to the staandards of the t Forest Sttewardship C Council. Expansion n into the Digital D Marrket UNGC enco ourages com mpanies to de evelop and diffuse d envirronmentally friendly tech hnologies in accordance e with the niinth guiding principle. BrandMuscle B e is a leadingg provider off digital prod ducts that suppo ort the local marketing m effforts of its end e users. T The Compan ny’s suite of digital offerrings not only suupports operrational efficiencies, but marketing ttactics are m moving towarrd a less material driven approach. By altering a the medium m in which w Clientss will advertisse local cam mpaigns, BrandMusccle’s partnerss will realize reduced wa aste and matterial cost. BrandMusccle is also wo orking diligently toward virtualizing iits productio on, test and developmen nt environments so as to reduce the carbon footp print of its teechnology environment.. Progress toward thiss initiative will w be tracked and monittored as the Company w works toward d 80% virtualizatio on. Recently, BrandMuscle B e was presen nted with Exa actTarget’s ““2011 Embe edded Partne er of the Yea ar” award. Th his award reccognized Bra andMuscle’s innovation i n digital ma arketing and in creating a seamless brand b experience. BrandMusccle firmly bellieves its groowth and dev velopment w will further b benefit and rreduce strain n on the limited natural reso ources. ANTI-CO ORRUPTIO ON BrandMusccle is committted to an op pen, honest and forthco oming work e environmentt. The Comp pany believes thhat open com mmunication is a critical element of a success an nd integrity. Each weekk, BrandMusccle hosts a co ompany-wid de meeting, providing an n open forum m for departtments, committees and emplo oyees to share ideas, con ncerns, oppo ortunities an nd challengees. Additionallyy, BrandMusscle employe ees are charg ged with thee responsibillity to perforrm with a hig gh level of honesty and in ntegrity. Many employee es’ successees are measu ured by the aability to perrform in a manne er that displa ays professioonal leadership by mainttaining an open, honestt and successful work enviro onment. An Anonym mous Suggesstion box pro ovides emplo oyees with a secure foru um to voice their opinion ns. All private matters are managed by y the Human n Resourcess Departmen nt with the utmost confidentiaality. 2011 Key y Initiative Although BrandMuscle B is committeed to consisttently supporrting all aspe ects of the U UNGC guidin ng principles, the Compan ny supports a key initiatiive each yeaar. During th he summer o of 2011, BrandMusccle partnered d with Let’s Grow G Akron,n, Inc. to trannsform a vaccant lot into a communitty garden. Itt is Let’s Groow Akron’s primary focuss is to provid de an opporttunity for dissadvantaged d adults and children to create a sen nse of ownerrship by volu unteering in economicallly viable gardens. By B gardening g, volunteeriism promote es personal sstrength, ho onesty, accouuntability annd pride within the community. BrandMusccle summer interns i coord dinated initia al efforts, in cluding land d evaluation,, planning, orders of materials, m orrespondencce and addittional preparration effortss. BrandMusscle interns and co employees provided th he manual la abor necessa ary to beauti fy the space e. Through significant efffort by a largge number of o BrandMusccle team me embers, the Company w was able to rea ach an additional moneta ary goal fromm volunteer hours. As a result, Let’ss Grow Akron n received a grant in thee amount of $7,500.00 of o additional funding. 2012 Key y Initiative Although BrandMuscle B d great succe has realized ess since itss acceptance e into the Un nited Nationss Global Commpact, the Company reco ognizes additional stepss are needed d to continue e to develop and grow in a sustainable s m manner while meeting market m challeenges. To ffacilitate con ntinued commitment to this pro ocess, Brand dMuscle will be participaating in a Lea adership Susstainability Circle. Undder the direcction of Case e Western Reserve’s R Fow wler Center ffor Sustainable Value, BrandMusccle will partn ner with apprroximately fiive local SME Es to develoop and launcch a well-deffined Sustainability Action Plan for their companies. This forma lized plan w will, in accord dance with thhe UNGC’s guiding princip ples, provide e a documented l approaach to betterr support the e Company’ss goals.
