COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS (COP) 2011 / 2012 LANDELL CONSULTING Level 9, 190 Queen Street Melbourne Vic 3000 Melbourne, Victoria, Australia 3000 12 February 2012 INTRODUCTORY REPORTING INFORMATION Name of the Organisation Landell Consulting Country Australia Joining Date 12 December 2009 Organisation Type Small company Sector Primarily Commonwealth, State and local government Website www.landell.com.au GRI Reporting Level C C+ B: B+ A A+: Reporting Period December 2010 – January 2012 Date of most recent previous report 1 February 2011 Reporting cycle Annual External Assurance Yes No Contact Caroline Gordon Principal, Government and Corporate Social Position Title Responsibility E-mail info@landell.com.au Contact number +61 3 9011 8440 TABLE OF CONTENTS OPEN LETTER OF SUPPORT FROM LANDELL’S MANAGING DIRECTOR 3 1. LANDELL’S MEMBERSHIP OF THE UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT 4 2. LANDELL’S ORGANISATIONAL PROFILE 4 2.1. COMPLIANCE WITH THE GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE 4 2.2. ORGANISATIONAL PROFILE 4 2.2.1. ORGANISATIONAL NAME 4 2.2.2. SERVICES PROVIDED 4 2.2.3. ORGANISATIONAL STRUCTURE / SCALE OF THE ORGANISATION 5 2.2.4. LOCATION OF THE ORGANISATION’S HEADQUARTERS 6 2.2.5. NUMBER OF COUNTRIES WHERE THE ORGANISATION OPERATES 6 2.2.6. NATURE OF OWNERSHIP AND LEGAL FORM 6 2.2.7. MARKETS SERVED BY THE ORGANISATION 6 2.2.8. REPORT BOUNDARIES, INCLUDING CLIENTS, SUPPLY CHAIN AND STAKEHOLDERS 6 3. LANDELL’S CSR REPORTING PROCESS 6 4. LANDELL’S 2011 CSR INITIATIVES 7 4.1. PRO BONO SOCIAL PROCUREMENT TOOLKIT 7 4.2. STRATEGIC PLAN FOR SOCIAL PROCUREMENT IN LOCAL GOVERNMENT 7 4.3. ENERGY GROUP BUYING PROJECT FOR NOT-FORPROFITS 7 4.4. CSR TRAINING UNITS 8 4.5. PRO BONO ADVICE TO UN HUMAN RIGHTS WORKING GROUP 8 4.6. NEW PRO BONO SECTION IN CSR UNIT 9 4.7. LANDELL’S INTERNAL CSR INITIATIVES 9 5. LANDELL’S CSR PROGRESS IN 2011 9 5.1. KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATOR MEASUREMENT CODE 9 5.2. LANDELL’S 2011 CSR INITIATIVE REVIEW 10 6. LANDELL’S 2012 INITIATIVES 15 7. COMMUNICATION OF THE COP 15 OPEN LETTER OF SUPPORT FROM LANDELL’S MANAGING DIRECTOR It gives me great pleasure to present Landell Consulting’s Communication on Progress (COP) for 2012, which:  represents Landell’s commitment to the principles of the Global Compact;  reflects upon Landell’s progress in implementing its 2011 Global Compact initiatives;  provides Landell with the opportunity to showcase its 2012 corporate social responsibility (CSR) objectives; and  ensures that our organisation is accountable for our actions and responsibilities to our stakeholders and the wider community. Landell’s CSR strategy, which has broadened and progressed remarkably since Landell released its first COP in December 2009, includes the following initiatives undertaken in 2011:  Landell’s CSR Unit developed pro bono a Social Procurement Toolkit for the Victorian Department of Planning and Community Development: http://www.dpcd.vic.gov.au/localgovernment/socialprocurement/social-procurement-toolkit-introduction.  Landell has assisted a not-for-profit organisation, which supports and encourages the establishment of commercially viable social enterprises throughout Australia, to develop a strategic plan by which to extend a social procurement initiative to other local governments.  Landell established an energy group buying project primarily for the not-for-profit sector.  Landell established an additional business arm, Landell Training (a registered training organisation), to deliver a suite of training packages, including units on CSR and social procurement.  As a member of the United Nations’ Global Compact Network Australia’s Human Rights Working Group for Business, Landell provided pro bono advice to the Working Group on survey development.  Landell established a pro bono arm to its CSR Unit to provide free assistance to not-for-profits. As Landell’s CSR strategy has expanded, so too have the benefits to Landell of our membership of the Global Compact, which include an increase in the positive social effects of our operations on our value chain, the enhanced ability to identify corporate risks and opportunities, continuous organisational performance improvement and an enhancement of stakeholder relations, including the provision of significant learnings to stakeholders through collaboration. Lexton Gebert Managing Director, Landell Consulting 3 1. LANDELL’S MEMBERSHIP OF THE UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT On 27 November 2008, the Managing Director of Landell Consulting, Mr Lexton Gebert, wrote to the Honourable Ban Ki-moon, Secretary General of the United Nations seeking membership of the Global Compact. On 12 December 2008, the Global Compact Office officially advised Landell that it had become a member of the Global Compact. This is Landell’s third COP submission to the United Nations. 2. LANDELL’S ORGANISATIONAL PROFILE 2.1. Compliance with the Global Reporting Initiative Landell’s COP utilises the performance indicators of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). 2.2. Organisational Profile 2.2.1. Organisational Name Landell Corporation Pty Ltd trades as Landell Consulting. 2.2.2. Services Provided Founded in 1999, Landell Consulting is a management consultancy firm specialising in government procurement, probity, risk management, project management and training. In 2008, Landell Consulting extended its operations to include a Corporate Social Responsibility Unit, managed by a Principal of the organisation. In 2011, Landell established:  Landell Training, a registered training organisation (RTO); and  a pro bono arm of the CSR Unit. Landell’s diverse government client base includes many Commonwealth, State and local government departments and funded agencies, exemplified by its membership of the following government probity and procurement panels. 4 Victoria  Probity Practitioner Services Panel (whole-of-Victorian-Government).  eServices Panel (whole-of-Victorian-Government).  Commercial and Financial Advisor Services Panel for Infrastructure and Capital Assets Projects and Commercial Transactions (whole-of-Victorian-Government).  Business Services Panel Agreement (Victoria Police). Commonwealth  Defence Support Group (DSG) Consultancy Services Panel Department of Defence.  Provision of Personnel for ICT Related Purposes Panel Department of Families, Housing, Community Services and Indigenous Affairs.  External Procurement Advisors Panel Department of Immigration and Citizenship. 2.2.3. Organisational Structure / Scale of the Organisation Landell has a committed team of approximately 20 highly experienced consultants (including a mixture of employees and contractors) working across the organisation’s six business lines. Landell’s organisational structure is represented in summary format diagrammatically below. Managing Director Project Support Officer Project Support Officer Change Management Financial Analyst Principal, ICT Principal, Government Senior Strategic Procurement Principal, Probity Consultant, Energy Group Policy, CSR and Training Buying Project Senior Senior Probity Senior Training Consultant Advisor Senior Strategic Consultant Consultant, Energy Group Buying Project Senior Probity Advisor CSR Consultant Consultant Probity Advisor Government Consultant Policy Consultant Consultant Note: Not all of Landell’s consultants are included in the organisational diagram. 5 2.2.4. Location of the Organisation’s Headquarters Landell Consulting is based in Melbourne, Victoria, Australia. 2.2.5. Number of countries where the organisation operates Landell Consulting currently operates exclusively in Australia. 2.2.6. Nature of Ownership and Legal Form Landell Consulting Pty Ltd, which trades as Landell Consulting, is a private company. 2.2.7. Markets Served by the Organisation Landell Consulting primarily undertakes projects for Commonwealth, State and local governments, but has undertaken several projects for the private sector. 2.2.8. Report Boundaries, including Clients, Supply Chain and Stakeholders This report extends beyond the internal operations of Landell Consulting to its suppliers and clients. 3. LANDELL’S CSR REPORTING PROCESS Landell’s COP is a component of the company’s integrated reporting process, as demonstrated in the diagram below. Landell’s Internal Landell’s External Operations Operations Landell’s Landell’s Landell’s Landell’s HR Operational Landell’s Landell’s CSR Environmental Services Policies Guidelines and pro bono work Work Policies integrating CSR Protocols Distillation of initiatives and outcomes Annual Landell 6 COP Landell’s COP operates as a practical mechanism by which to link Landell’s internal reports and policies to Landell’s operations and services. The COP also acts as an important communication tool for stakeholders. 4. LANDELL’S 2011 CSR INITIATIVES Landell has successfully completed, or made substantial progress in, all of its 2011 initiatives, as outlined below. 4.1. Pro Bono Social Procurement Toolkit In 2011, Landell was contracted by the Victorian Department of Planning and Community Development (DPCD) to act as a broker for the provision of expert advice on social procurement to eight local governments in Victoria. As an adjunct to this project, Landell’s CSR Unit developed pro bono a Social Procurement Toolkit for DPCD. The Toolkit can be found at: http://www.dpcd.vic.gov.au/localgovernment/socialprocurement/social-procurement-toolkit-introduction. 4.2. Strategic Plan for Social Procurement in Local Government While the social procurement project for Victorian local governments was a success, government funding for the project has ceased. Landell is providing pro bono assistance to Social Traders, a not-for-profit organisation whose charter is to support and encourage the establishment of commercially viable social enterprises throughout Australia, to develop a strategic plan by which to extend the local government social procurement initiatives to other local governments. 4.3. Energy Group Buying Project for Not-for-Profits Landell Consulting is undertaking an energy group buying project, focusing on electricity. This group-buying initiative involves aggregating the demand of many organisations, and then seeking competitive tenders from electricity retailers for the entire aggregated demand. Seeking tenders for the aggregated demand should deliver significant savings to individual 7 participants which join the buying group, which would otherwise be unable to achieve such savings individually. Landell’s primary focus for this project is the not-for-profit sector. Landell is providing pricing to not-for-profit organisations on a break-even basis to Landell (i.e. Landell will derive no financial benefit in its support for not-for-profits). Private-sector businesses and some government entities will also be invited to join the buying group to increase the group’s size and buying power, and further reduce prices for the benefit of the not-for-profit sector. In addition to achieving savings for not-for-profits, Landell will be assisting them to manage their transition to the new energy environment, when a carbon tax is introduced in Australia in July 2012. 4.4. CSR Training Units In 2011, Landell established a registered training organisation (RTO) called Landell Training. Landell has developed a suite of accredited and non-accredited training packages including units on CSR and social procurement. Landell’s CSR training course includes the following units, which are all based on the principles of the Global Reporting Initiative: Organisational Reviews, Prioritisation of CSR Strategies, Implementation of CSR Strategies and CSR Monitoring and Reporting. Landell’s social procurement training course includes the following units: Establishment of a Social Procurement Environment, Social Procurement Planning, Social Procurement Implementation, Social Procurement Evaluation and Social Procurement Monitoring and Reporting. 4.5. Pro Bono Advice to UN Human Rights Working Group As a member of the United Nations’ Global Compact Network Australia’s Human Rights Working Group for Business, Landell provided pro bono advice to the Working Group on survey development. 8 4.6. New Pro Bono Section in CSR Unit In 2011, Landell extended its CSR Unit to include a pro bono arm to provide free assistance to not-for-profits. In addition to the development of the social procurement toolkit pro bono, Landell has assisted a small company that was subject to exploitation to obtain pro bono legal representation from a major Melbourne law firm, and in the last year, Landell has continued to assist with the litigation. 4.7. Landell’s Internal CSR Initiatives Landell has maintained and improved upon its internal CSR initiatives, all of which have been documented in Section 5.2 below. 5. LANDELL’S CSR PROGRESS IN 2011 5.1. Key Performance Indicator Measurement Code Below is the code key for performance assessment. Target Achieved  2011 project successful in its aims. Project complete, or ongoing with continuing systems. Target On Track for Success  Project has not yet had sufficient time for completion, but remains on track for success. Target Steady  Shortcomings in core/non-core areas. Project may still be successfully implemented with effort, but a revision of targets is recommended. Target Not Assessed  Insufficient time for project results to be known, or limited data available. No results are yet determinable. Unacceptable Progress  Target has not yet been successful and appears manageable only with major effort. Target Failure  Target has not been successfully met, and has little or no prospect of successful attainment. 9 5.2. Landell’s 2011 CSR Initiative Review LABOUR Initiative Performance Indicator Measurement Performance Results in 2011 Performance Results in 2010  Total training hours per employee per annum Training Training 40 hours  Employees have been offered training hours in relevant  Employees have been offered training hours in relevant  Gender Profile: areas, including training for maintaining a legal areas, including training for maintaining a legal o Employee/sub-contractor gender profile practising certificate. practising certificate. 50% male/50%  Landell operates a graduate mentoring program, an  Landell operates a graduate mentoring program. female internship program and an overseas graduate program. Gender Profile of Landell o Managerial gender profile 50% Gender Profile of Landell  Managerial: 50% male / 50% female male/50%female  Managerial: 50% male / 50% female  Employee/sub-contractors: 50% male / 50% female  Total number of incidents of discrimination and  Employee/sub-contractors: 50% male / 50% female Incidents actions taken against Landell 0  Total number of incidents of violations involving Incidents  Total number of incidents of discrimination and actions rights of indigenous people 0  Total number of incidents of discrimination and actions taken against Landell in 2011: 0 Human taken against Landell in 2011: 0  Total number of incidents of violations involving rights of  Total number of incidents of non-compliance with Resources regulations and voluntary codes concerning  Total number of incidents of violations involving rights of indigenous people and actions taken in 2011: 0 health and safety impact 0 indigenous people and actions taken in 2011: 0  Total number of substantiated complaints regarding  Annual Landell turnover rate 10%  Total number of substantiated complaints regarding breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer  Full-time employees receiving the benefits sick breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer data in 2011: 0 leave; recreation leave; carer’s leave; data in 2011: 0  Total number of incidents of non-compliance with bereavement leave and study leave 100%  Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning health and regulations and voluntary codes concerning health and safety impacts in 2011: 0 safety impacts in 2011: 0 Employment Conditions Employment Conditions  2011 Landell staff turnover 10%  2011 Landell staff turnover 20%  Full-time employees who received the following benefits  Full-time employees who received the following benefits sick leave; recreation leave; career’s leave, bereavement sick leave; recreation leave; career’s leave, bereavement leave; and study leave 100% leave; and study leave 100% Code of  Code breaches investigated and remediated  Code breaches 0  Code breaches 0 Conduct 0 10 HUMAN RIGHTS Initiative Performance Indicator Measurement Performance Measurement Results in 2011 Performance Measurement Results in 2010  Landell is a member of the United Nations’ Global Compact Network Australia’s Human Rights Working Group for  Landell is a member of the United Nations’ Global Business. Compact Network Australia’s Human Rights Working Group for Business.  Landell has assisted Human Rights Working Group in Commitment  Involvement in United Nations’ Global reviewing a survey to be sent to its members and provided  Landell’s human rights statement was made available to Human Compact Network Australia’s Human Rights pro bono advice. to all staff via Landell’s internal intranet. Rights Working Group for Business  Based on Landell’s internal Human Resources Framework,  A discussion paper was prepared for circulation and the use of the Maplecroft Child Labour Index where amongst staff, outlining Landell’s commitment to relevant, Landell had 0 operations with a child labour risk. human rights and involvement in the United Nations Global Compact.  Landell’s human rights statement was made available to all staff via Landell’s intranet. 11 ENVIRONMENT Initiative Performance Indicator Measurement Performance Measurement Results in 2011 Performance Measurement Results in 2010  % reduction in CO2 emissions  % reduction in paper use 10% from 2010 10% from 2010  % reduction in electricity use  Landell uses EMAS Europa (EU Eco-Management and Audit Scheme) endorsed recycled paper and maintains a contract with Tree House Recycling for paper 10% from 2010 disposal and recycling.  Landell uses EMAS Europa (EU Eco % reduction in water use  % reduction in electricity use Management and Audit Scheme) endorsed 10% from 2010 recycled paper recycled paper and 10% from 2010 maintains a contract with Tree House  % reduction in paper use  % reduction in water use Recycling for paper disposal and recycling. 10% from 2010  Employees routinely turn off lights, and 10% from 2010 Reduction of natural light is used wherever possible to  Staff working from home 30%  Employees routinely turn off lights, and natural light is used wherever possible to minimise electricity usage. Landell Landell’s  Use of Gmail (to preclude unnecessary minimise electricity usage. participates annually in EarthHour. Environmental travel by employees) However, insufficient usage material could  Landell participates annually in EarthHour. be obtained from the building manager to Footprint 10% increase from 2010  Insufficient usage material could be obtained from the building manager to effectively monitor Landell’s electricity and effectively monitor Landell’s electricity and water use, and as a consequence, it water use, and as a consequence, it was was not possible to monitor a reduction in CO2 emissions. not possible to monitor a reduction in CO2 emissions.  Staff working from home 70%  Subject to client or operational needs,  Use of Gmail (to preclude unnecessary travel by employees) Landell has been successful in the 40% target for working from home in 2009. 20% increase from 2010  In addition to our online instant messaging facilities for Landell staff and contractors, Landell uses virtual meetings to minimise travel. Landell primarily relied on Gmail video and audio chatting in 2011, and employees were provided with training and support on the use of our new systems. All new employees receive training and systems support upon commencing with Landell. 12 ANTI-CORRUPTION Initiative Performance Indicator Measurement Performance Measurement Results in 2011 Performance Measurement Results in 2010  Landell has developed a Code of Conduct,  Landell has developed a Code of Conduct, which incorporates key Global which incorporates key Global Compact Landell’s Compact principles including anti-corruption requirements. principles including anti-corruption Anti-Corruption  Code of Conduct incorporating antirequirements. corruption requirements  The Code of Conduct provides for the confidential reporting of conduct breaches to Initiatives senior management.  The Code of Conduct provides for the confidential reporting of conduct breaches to senior management. 13 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Initiative Performance Indicator Measurement for 2011 Performance Results in 2011  Landell contracted to act as a broker for the provision of expert advice on social procurement to eight local governments in Victoria. Local Government  Landell to implement a social procurement initiative  As an adjunct to this project, Landell’s CSR Unit developed pro bono a Social Broker Procurement Toolkit for the Victorian Department of Planning and Community Development. The Toolkit can be found at: http://www.dpcd.vic.gov.au/localgovernment/socialprocurement/social-procurement-toolkit-introduction  Landell developed the Social Procurement Toolkit for the Department of Planning and Community Development pro bono. The Toolkit has provided all 79 Victorian councils with information, guidance notes and templates as part of a practical step-by-step guide Pro Bono Initiative  Landell to implement a pro bono CSR initiative for incorporating social procurement into every stage of a procurement project Landell established a pro bono arm of its CSR Unit.  Landell established an energy group buying project for not-for-profits, which would otherwise be unable to achieve such savings individually.  Landell to establish itself as a registered training  Landell established Landell Training, a registered training organisation. CSR Training organisation to provide accredited and non Landell developed training materials and tools which include corporate social accredited CSR training responsibility and sustainability policies and procedures. 14 6. LANDELL’S 2012 INITIATIVES In 2012, Landell will:  fully implement the Energy Group Buying Project for not-for-profits;  support Social Traders to develop a social procurement strategy for local government;  provide CSR and social procurement training for government officers; and  become involved in international aid services. 7. COMMUNICATION OF THE COP Given that Landell is a small, private company, which does not produce an annual report, Landell’s COP will be published on its website at www.landell.com.au, to enable the company’s stakeholders and clients to view Landell’s progress in implementing its Global Compact initiatives and responsibilities. 15
