Communication on Progress 2011 (2010-2011) Name of the Participating Company/organization: Green Delta Insurance Company Limited Country: BANGLADESH Industry sector: NonLife Insurance Reported period: 2010-2011 (January to December) 1. Statement of continued support for the UN Global Compact Green Delta Insurance Company is a general insurance provider whose contain number one in insurance sector in terms of service to the client. This company is run by professional people to achieve the client confidence and better business with the maximum security and minimum cost. This company also contributes to the society by CSR activities. Nasir A Choudhury Managing Director & CEO Brief Description of Nature of Business Green Delta Insurance Company Limited was established in the year 1986 with professional people to operate as general insurer in Bangladesh. Since the inception of our operation we have been maintaining our position as leading insurer of the country. We have achieved the confidence of the insurance community both in home and abroad. Most of the multinational organizations as well as Foreign Direct Investors are taking our insurance coverage from us. The following is a list of some of our major clients: Lafarge Surma Cement Bangladesh Limited Youngone Group of Industries Bangladesh Edible Oil Limited. Heidelberg Cement Group in Bangladesh Lenny Fashions Limited (EPZ, Dhaka) Holcim (Bangladesh) Limited Harvest Rich Limited Khulna Power Company Limited Mobil Jamuna Lubricants Limited Glaxo SmithKline Bangladesh Limited Grameen Phone Lever Brothers Bangladesh Limited South China Group, EPZ Siemens Bangladesh Limited Grameen Telecom & Textile Regency Garments (EPZ, Chittagong) Confidence Cement Limited Bata Shoe Co. (Bangladesh) Ltd. Ispahani Group of Companies British Oxygen Company of BD Ltd. A.K. Khan Group of Companies Berger Paints Bangladesh Limited Beximco Group of Companies BASF Bangladesh Limited Haque Group of Industries Coats Bangladesh Limited. GMG Airlines Limited YKK Bangladesh Limited Air Parabat RAK Ceramics (Bangladesh) Limited. Youngone Aviation New Zealand Milk Products (BD) Limited Hotel Westin, Dhaka T.K Group, Chittagon, Bangladesh Orion Group Desh Bondhu Sugar, Bangladesh We have established our relationship and Associate ship with internationally renowned insurance organizations. Royal & Sun Alliance (RSA)-world-renowned British insurer and re-insurer; Zurich Insurance Company of Switzerland-one of the largest insurer and re-insurer of the world; Sompo Japan-third largest insurer of Japan made us as their Local Network Partner of their Global Operation. Besides these, General Insurance Corporation of India, Arab Re. etc. are our strategic reinsurance partners. Our team comprises of professional people trained on various specialized fields of insurance in London, Switzerland, Germany, Singapore, U.A.E. Canada and other industrially developed countries and is much capable in both risk analysis and designing appropriate insurance programme for our clients that would give maximum protection at minimum cost. In order to make the capital base stronger, we have raised our paid up capital to BDT 408.24 million. On top of that, we have BDT 60,000,000 as Share Premium. In addition to that we have wide reinsurance coverage both from home and abroad. This reinsurance protection gives us immense support to underwrite any stake of risk. We hope and believe that considering our strength, efficiency and legendary customer services to our client will place our position with maximum coverage at most competitive and economy price. Scope of this COP 1. Human Rights 2. Labour Standards Main emphasis on Work place, Community and the Government. 2. Description of practical actions taken to implement the UN Global Compact principles and quantitative measurement of performance. Human Rights: Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights within their sphere of influence; and Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses a) The company does demonstrate its human rights a) Actions taken to implement commitment. protection policy by the following documents: --Provide attractive salary --Allow incentives and other recognition awards. Organizational structure --Training program abroad and In-house. Employment rules --To introduce new product Risk management plan --Have the facilities of Group insurance Schemes. Supplier selection criteria Investment policy rules b) The committee is headed by the CEO of the company and liable to the Customer relation systems Board of Governors. Employee information and training plan Sponsorship, donation and social activity program c) To compare the employee services in terms of business earnings. -The company provides information among its employees on the b) A special team or committee in charge of measures supporting human rights. implementing this policy. --The company protects the rights of its customers by providing information about its products /services c) Measurement of outcomes and value added for our company. d) ---We have newsletter --Green Delta Insurance Company Limited own website d) We have the communication channels for presenting --We frequently visit our valued clients to share their views with our Green Delta Insurance to our clients. company -launching online service The Key Milestone of Green Delta Insurance Company 9. Green Delta Insurance Company Limited has been awarded for best Insurance Corporate Performance Award -2008 by ICMAB 1. Green Delta Insurance provides the maximum (Institute of Cost and Management Accounts of security with minimum cost. Bangladesh). 2. The Paid up capital of Green Delta Ins. Co is now 10.Green Delta Insurance Company Ltd. Managing Director & CEO, Mr. 408.24 million, the highest among the 43 private Nasir A. Choudhury received the International Star Award for quality general insurance companies. Management Level presented in Paris, France. This Award was given by The Business Initiative Directions, Madrid Spain. 3. Prompt claim settlement is the strength of our company. 11. On behalf of Green Delta Insurance Ltd, the Managing Director & CEO, Mr. Nasir A. Choudhury received The International Star Award for 4. Our company adheres true professionalism, effective quality in the Gold category in Switzerland, Geneva. customer service, transparency and accountability, wide use of technology, inclusive management styles, well 12. Nasir A. Choudhury, Managing Director & CEO of Green Delta trained staff and good company culture remained the Insurance Company Ltd. received the Golden Award for quality & strength behind the success of our company. Business Prestige 2009 by Association Other Ways in Berlin. 5. Our distribution network is located around all over 13. Green Delta Insurance Company was awarded International Quality Bangladesh by our 35 branches. Crown Awarded IQC 2009 in Diamond category by Business Initiative Directions in London recently for its TQM (Total Quality Management) 6. The company is the proud sponsored of the 1st & that has been implemented for next two years. 2nd Division Hockey League since 1987. In 2004, GDIC has sponsored Senior Division Hockey League and 14. Green Delta Insurance Company Limited has been awarded for Premier Division Cricket League for the Second time. Best Presented Accounts and Corporate Governance Disclosures Merit of Certificate-2008 in Non-Banking Category by the South Asian 7. In the year 2003 and 2004 Green Delta Insurance Federation of Accountants (SAFA).This certificate of merit has given as Company Limited was awarded for one of the bestper the evaluation of the Annual Report-2008 of Green Delta Ins. Co. published Annual Report in the Non-Banking financial sector. 15. Green Delta Insurance Company was awarded Platinum Technology Award for Quality and Best Trade Name 8. Green Delta Insurance Company Limited has been awarded AA2 (Pronounced Double A Two) rating in the 16. Green Delta Insurance Company was awarded the First Prize long term and ST-1 in the short term by the Credit Winner of “Best Published Accounts” in the 10th Institute of Chartered rating Agency of Bangladesh Limited. Accountants of Bangladesh for 2009 (Non Banking Category – Insurance Sector) Technology Award for Quality & Best trade name by by 17. Green Delta Insurance Company Limited was Association OtherWays in Berlin . awarded “AA1” rating in the long term and “ST-1” rating in the short term by Credit Rating Agency of 25. On behalf of Green Delta Insurance Ltd, the Managing Bangladesh Director & CEO, Mr. Nasir A. Choudhury awarded “The BIZZ Award-2011” by World Business Confederation of Business, 18. Mrs. Farzana Chowdhury, Additional Managing USA for Leadership, Excellence in management, Quality and Director of Green Delta Insurance Company was Marketing. awarded as being honored member of the Who’s Who of professional for historical Society 2010 26. Green Delta Insurance Company Limited has been awarded “THE DIAMOND EYE AWARD FOR QUALITY & EXCELLENCE “ by BID 19. Rapport Award for Excellence in Corporate OTHERWAYS. Women Leadership 2011. 20. Nasir A. Choudhury, Managing Director & CEO 27. Green Delta Insurance Company Limited has been awarded of Green Delta nsurance Company Ltd. was awarded Awarded “INTERNATIONAL QUALITY CROWN AWARD “ by BID Who’s Who membership for 2010 – 2011 INTERNATIONAL IN LONDON 21. As part of Corporate Social Responsibility Green Delta Insurance Company Limited contributed toward 28. Green Delta Insurance Company Limited has been awarded First “World Water Day 2011” Prize in ICMAB Best Corporate Award-2011 in Insurance category. 22. Ensuring access to primary health care is one of Green Delta’s key focus areas for social intervention. 29. Green Delta Insurance Company Limited has been conferred the On the occasion of its Silver Jubilee, and as part of ‘Certificate of Merit’ for the Best Presented Accounts Award 2010 in the its Corporate Social Responsibility, Green Delta category ‘Insurance Sector’ by the South Asian Federation of Insurance, jointly with Lion’s Club of Bonoful, Delta, Accountants (SAFA). organized a daylong Free Eye-Care Camp. 30. Green Delta Insurance Co. Ltd. contributed by purchasing 23. To ensure the life and safety of all employees of 100 sets of Books in connection with 150 years Birthday against fire, Green Delta organized a Fire Drill Ceremony of Rabindranath Thakur. This project is organized demonstration at the Head Office. by Late Mr. Kabir Choudhury, National Professor and also the President of Rabindro Bisoyok Granthomala. 24. Green Delta Insurance Company Ltd. Managing Director & CEO, Mr. Nasir A. Choudhury awarded for The Platinum 31. Green Delta Insurance Co. Ltd. donated 1,00,000 to “Robindronath & Robindronath” Shrishok Shurer Dhara Annual Function organized by Ms. Rejwana Chowdhury bonna, Chairman and Principal of Shurer Dhara which was held on 13thApril, 2011. 32. Sponsoring for making documentary in CD bringing Proactive and Positive attitude of the Nation by Campus Social Development Centre (CSDC) in Dhaka. 33. As a member of Bangladesh-Malaysia Chamber of Commerce & Industry (BMCCI), Green Delta Insurance donated in the fund for the Scholarship and Gold Medal in the name of Tun Dr. Mahathir Mohammad with Dhaka University. 34. Green Delta Insurance Company Ltd. insured 573 Members of Finance Alumni Association of Dhaka University under Peoples Personal Accident Policy. GDIC believes the members of the associations are the shining stars of the nation and they are maintaining the finance cycle in order. Labour Standards: Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6: eliminate discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. a) Our company does demonstrate its human rights a) The company has a plan for employment, training and career protection policy by the following documents: development, the criteria being transparent for the employees. The company has clear rules regarding working hours, breaks, etc. Job Organizational structure advertisements guarantee equal access to all able candidates. --The company has a formal representation of the employees in the Employment rules management. The company has a formal system to hear the opinion of the employees. Risk management plan The company’s web site publicly displays information about different indicators regarding the diversity of company employees, including in Supplier selection criteria management bodies and others The company supports projects of organizations, which: Customer relation systems train higher grade students to use their labour rights Employee information and training plan assist women in acquiring entrepreneurial skills External audit reports Environment: Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. a) The company demonstrates its environment protection a) The precautionary approach of the company guarantees that it collects policy by the documents: information in order to identify, monitor and assess the possible environmental effects of its products and services Risk management plan --The company supervised under the Credit Rating authority which is compulsory by the Insurance Act Supplier selection criteria --The company allocates for new officers and other resources for inhouse training programms. Customer relation systems ---The company states clearly its planned environmental targets and achievements (on the web site, news letter, etc.) Employee information and training plan Marketing plans Anti-Corruption: Principle 10: Businesses should work against all forms of corruption, including extortion and bribery. Documents that could bear on elements of anti-corruption ---The company observes strict rules with regard to donations, policy: including for political parties, guaranteeing transparency. ---The employees are informed about the company policy thanks to financial rules and orders regarding gifts, social expenses an internal bulletin. and representational expenses --The all financial expenses informed to the Board which has all rights to enquiry, decision or reject. purchase rules and purchase committee. description of connected persons Rules for service payments to employees. 3. Sharing the COP with the company’s stakeholders – available links to the company’s Communication on Progress and additional information on the location of the COP report Contact person: NASIRUDDIN AHMED CHOUDHURY Managing Director & CEO Contact information IF YOU UNABLE TO CONTACT WITH CHOUDHURY THEN CONTACT WITH SYED MOINUDDIN AHMED DMD & Company Secretary Date of submission: 01.08.2012
