UN Global Compact : Annual Communication of Progress Statement of Support May 22, 2012 H. E. Ban Ki-moon Secretary-General United Nations New York, NY 10017 USA Dear Mr. Secretary-General, I am pleased to confirm that Four Season Solution Engineering Co., Ltd. continues to support the ten principles of the United Nations Global Compact with respect to human rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption. With this communication, we express our intention to make our best effort to advance the principles within our sphere of influence by reporting the activities undertaken and to be implemented in the future. We have made the Global Compact and its principles part of the strategy, culture and day-to-day operations of our company. Four Season Solution Engineering Co., Ltd. will continue to make a clear statement of this expression to our stakeholders and the general public. We are pleased to submit our first Communication of Progress(COP) that describes our company’s efforts to implement the ten principles. We support public accountability and transparency, and therefore commit to report on progress annually hereafter according to the Global Compact COP policy. Sincere yours, Mr. Byun, Jong Dae CEO, Four Season Solution Engineering Co., Ltd. UN Global Compact : Annual Communication of Progress Period covered for CoP: May 12, 201 – May 11, 2012 Activities/Outcomes to implement the Principles Human Rights Principle 1: Business should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. Actions: (1) As a first step to implement this principle, we had a series of internal meetings for the employees to have clear idea on Human Rights and decided to use the UNIVERSAL DECLARATION OF HUMAN RIGHTS as the standards. We went over all 30 articles of the declaration and reviewed meaning of them. Meeting 1: September 9, 2011 Participation: 100%, Topic: “What is the UNIVERSAL DECLARATION OF HUMAN RIGHTS?” Meeting 2: September 16, 2011 Participation: 100%, Topic: Review of 30 Articles of the declaration Meeting 3: September 23, 2011 Participation: 100%, Topic: Discussion session on Human Rights focused on examples of human rights abuse. Outcomes: Employees now have much more explicit idea on what the Human rights internationally proclaimed and have a reference for protection of human rights. Principle 2: Business should make that they are not complicit in human rights abuse. Actions: (1) We recognized and agreed that distinction of gender is a stereotype of discrimination which can occur both intentionally and unintentionally. Therefore, an internal inspection was performed whether our company have shown any sign of gender distinction within the boundary of work. Outcomes: We found no remarkable case of gender distinction that requires immediate correction. However, we noted that there are many examples that may be regarded as minor discrimination inherent from our tradition or culture. Labour Principle 3: Business should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. Actions: Employees are regularly reminded the freedom of association and right to collective bargaining from the board of directors. Principle 4: Business should uphold the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor. Actions: We have set a series of new regulations that serve as guideline to eliminate possibilities of violation of this principles: (1) Any extra-time work is not to be done against employees’ agreements. (2) One should not set up a work plan that may cause overworks or dangerous work environment. (3) One should not be penalized or take disadvantage for declining extra-work against one’s intention. Principle 5: Business should uphold the effective abolition of child labor. Systems: Child labor is strictly prohibited by law in Korea, and we do not have any possibility of such violation within the boundary of our business. Principle 6: Business should uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Activities: It is widely accepted that a married woman has significant difficulty in getting job. Our company is well aware of this practice. We have made special effort not to distinguish a candidate’s marital status. Outcomes: Out of last four female employments, 50% of them are married and all of them have children. Our company provides facilities/services for child care. Environment Principle 7: Business should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. Activities: (1) We keep an eye on the global environmental issues, but within the scope of our business, what we can do is to make small scale efforts. For instance, we do recycling papers and other reusable material. (2) Our company encourages employees to participate in environmental movements. Outcomes: (1) We maintain recycle bins, purchase and consume recycled papers. (2) We have minimized the use of disposable cups or dishes. Principle 8: Business should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. Activities: No specific activity carried out within our company’s business scope Principle 9: Business should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Activities: No specific activity carried out within our company’s business scope Anti-Corruption Principle 10: Business should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Commitment: As a trader, we are exposed to wide range of corruption and unfair trade. We have strong commitment to firmly drive out those practices. Activities: Our company has been paying particular attention to provide equal opportunity to all our suppliers. Any sign of biased deal is targeted for investigation of the board of directors. Outcomes: We charged an employee for his unfair treatment of suppliers and not properly reporting damages incurred by the faulty deed. The board of directors therefore concluded that the case was very likely to lead to bribery, and had to decide to fire the employee for his attempt to hide his fault.
