SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 THERE’S MORE TO NEW GOLD THAN GOLD THERE’S MORE Behind every tonne of ore and every ounce of gold we produce, there are New Gold people. Miners, engineers, managers, office workers — nearly 1,500 people, each contributing to their families and communities. Table of Contents Our Properties 2 Our Communities 16 Message from the President and CEO 4 Our Environmental Policies 22 Our Commitment 8 Our Future 36 Our People 10 Measuring Our Progress IBC Gold is why our company exists, but there’s far more to New Gold than gold. 2 NEW GOLD INC. | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 NEW AFTON PROJECT 100% NEW GOLD WEST OF KAMLOOPS, BC, CANADA EMPLOYEES: 242 CONTRACTORS: 152 This development project is nearing commercial production, scheduled for mid-2012. This will be an underground mine producing copper, silver and gold. MESQUITE MINE 100% NEW GOLD SOUTHEAST IMPERIAL VALLEY , CALIFORNIA, USA THERE’S MORE TO EMPLOYEES: 262 CONTRACTORS: 12 Located in the Mesquite Mining District at the base of the OUR PROPERTIES Chocolate Mountains, this is a heap-leach, run-of-mine gold mine, in production since 2008. CERRO SAN PEDRO MINE 100% NEW GOLD CERRO DE SAN PEDRO, MEXICO EMPLOYEES: 403 CONTRACTORS: 42 A heap-leach operation producing gold and silver, Cerro At New Gold, we understand that our collective San Pedro began production in the first quarter of 2007. success is inextricably linked to, and that our prosperity depends on, the long-term economic, social and environmental sustainability of each of the communities in which we work and live. We work hard to keep our 1420 mine site workers and 43 corporate staff safe, and we support them and their communities with educational and health benefits, environmental protection and contributions to EL MORRO PROJECT 30% NEW GOLD EAST OF VALLENAR, NORTHERN CHILE community infrastructure that will provide a legacy This copper-gold project is in the early stages of development. The project is operated by of sustainability. our joint-venture partner and 70% owner, Goldcorp Inc. This, our third annual Sustainability Report, is written for shareholders, prospective investors, analysts, government officials, employees and their families, communities, suppliers and other interested parties. It provides information on our company’s policies and our measurable achievements in the areas of health and safety, Property Status Legend the environment and community engagement, with progress notes from our active production and development projects. While Production each operation has its own policies and procedures, and works within local regulations, all of our operations follow our companyDevelopment wide principles and commitments regarding sustainability, ethical Feasibility study complete, behaviour and responsible actions. environmental permit in progress THERE’S MORE TO OUR PROPERTIES 3 PEAK GOLD MINES 100% NEW GOLD COBAR GOLD FIELD, NEW SOUTH WALES, AUSTRALIA EMPLOYEES: 284 CONTRACTORS: 23 A gold and copper underground mine, in operation since 1992. In recent years, Peak Gold Mines has been steadily increasing gold production, resources and mine life. The Amapari Mine in Brazil, which was placed on “care and maintenance” status in January of 2009, was closed and sold in early 2010. It is not included in this report. As a minority partner, the El Morro mine is not discussed at length in this report. For information regarding El Morro’s operating company’s Corporate Social Responsibility, see: http://csr.goldcorp.com/ This report follows the performance criteria of the Global Reporting Initiative G3 Guidelines. New Gold applies the carbon dioxide emissions protocols of the World Resources Institute and World Business Council for Sustainable Development. New Gold is a signatory to, and business participant member of, the United Nations Global Compact, a statement of principles regarding human rights, labour standards, the environment and anti-corruption. New Gold supports the Clinton-Giustra Sustainable Growth Initiative. New Gold is a member of Canadian Business for Social Responsibility, a non-profit, memberled, globally-recognized organisation for corporate social responsibility. See our Corporate Health, Safety and Environment and Sustainability Policy at www.newgold.com/socialresponsibilities. All currency is in United States dollars (USD) unless otherwise noted. Unless otherwise noted, tables are a compilation of information from across all sites. Specific mines’ programs are described in the text section of this report. Data are provided by individual sites, and consolidated by the corporate Environment and Social Responsibility department for inclusion in this report. 4 NEW GOLD INC. | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 MESSAGE FROM THE PRESIDENT AND CEO We are committed to promoting and protecting the welfare of our employees through safety-first work practices and workplaces, staff training, and equitable hiring and development practices. We understand that sustainable development extends We hope that the reader will find that this report clearly communicates our performance in the areas of health and safety, from environmental stewardship to the development fair labour practices, environmental practices and sustainable of economic prosperity and the support of local community-building. It also illustrates our commitment to communities and their cultural values. We strive transparency, in its disclosure of our achievements as well as our to share the benefits of our activities through the challenges, and our objectives for ongoing improvement. entire life cycle of our mines, and long after their In this year’s report we are able to provide three years of metrics, eventual closure. allowing comparison of our performance over time. In coming years we intend to improve our standardization of reporting across our operations internationally, which will allow for improved metrics, guided, as in years past, by the respected international standards of the Global Reporting Initiative. HEALTH AND SAFETY In the spring of 2010 we received distressing news of a truck driving fatality at our Cerro San Pedro mine. I’m certain I speak for everyone at New Gold in extending my personal sympathy and condolences to the driver’s family. This incident highlights the need for continued diligence in upholding safe operating practices, every single day. MESSAGE FROM THE PRESIDENT AND CEO 5 Throughout the year, we took decisive action to improve safety have increased our presence at the municipal level. These efforts, standards at Cerro San Pedro. Inadequate procedures and which are related to our recent changes in senior personnel at reporting came to light, and senior personnel were immediately the mine, represent tangible steps forward, and provide greater relieved of their duties. New safety professionals and equipment transparency to the local communities while providing meaningful trainers were brought in, and we instituted new, more rigorous input from a range of stakeholders. policies and procedures. Records of injury frequencies were reviewed and corrections made to historic information. In 2008, Peak Gold Mines helped establish the Cobar Enterprise Facilitation, an organisation that assists individuals with Our New Afton project deserves special mention for establishing entrepreneurial aspirations to achieve their goals, and thus and maintaining excellent operating practices, even before the promotes a sustainable community. We continue to support project commences full production. As the pace of construction the organisation, and sit on its board. Since its start, 18 small has increased, the site has more than doubled its head-count to enterprises have opened in Cobar including a florist shop, movie over 250 employees plus nearly 200 contractors. Although theatre and an adventure tourism enterprise. A total of 51 many of these are young workers who are new to new jobs have been created. working on mine sites, New Afton did not suffer a single lost-day accident in 2010. ENVIRONMENT New Gold operations reported no major Throughout the company, we strive to environmental incidents this year, and learn from the past and maintain our New Gold we remain vigilant in our policies safety focus on the future —improving and practices. We continually systems and procedures so that we operations reported seek new strategies for enhancing can keep our people safer and prevent no major environmental our environmental performance accidents from happening. To this including programs to improve end, we’re improving our training and incidents this year, and energy efficiency, reduce our carbon strengthening our reporting systems to we remain vigilant in our footprint and minimize our use ensure that safety training is delivered, policies and practices. of water and other resources. We and documented, consistently. A major continue with progressive reclamation safety objective for 2011 is standardizing and re-vegetation activities, including our safety practices and procedures across the rehabilitation of historic mining areas all operations. The first step is a companyfor which we have assumed responsibility. wide safety audit and gap analysis, which is well A large percentage of our reclamation work underway. uses plantings from our on-site nurseries where we propagate native species to ensure continuing biodiversity. COMMUNITY Recycling is a growing emphasis, and our sites recycle everything We are making significant progress in improving our proactive from scrap metal and used oil to day-by-day plastic and paper stakeholder outreach activities, to build and maintain meaningful waste. dialogue and improve relationships with community stakeholders. As construction proceeds on the New Afton project, we have been At Cerro San Pedro, we increased the frequency and size of granted the various water, tailings, and waste permits. In selecting community meetings. We engaged in extensive discussions on the mine’s water source, we consulted closely with the local First local infrastructure and considered strategies for New Gold to Nations, and examined several alternatives before arriving at a directly contribute to local improvements. We initiated a new mutually satisfactory solution. This consultative process is an level and frequency of dialogue with the state government and example of our commitment to partnering with local communities. 6 NEW GOLD INC. | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 Australia’s extraordinary weather in 2010 was a major factor in Our aim is to meet or exceed internationally-recognized standards. a reportable discharge from Peak Gold Mines’ tailings storage To that end in 2010, New Gold was accepted by the International facility, which occurred during an excessive rainfall event. As a Cyanide Management Institute as a signatory to the International result we are in the process of raising the retaining walls to prevent Cyanide Management Code. We will continue our support for the a recurrence. Other reportable incidents are detailed later in this United Nations Global Compact and its principles for human rights, report. environmental and labour practices and anti-corruption. At Cerro San Pedro, the mine operates in compliance with all As New Gold matures from four previous companies into one, we environmental laws and regulations. We made significant progress have made great strides in developing a corporate culture of safety, regarding legal challenges that relate primarily to the ambiguity of respect and responsibility to each other, our communities and the a land-use regulation. Over recent years the issue has proceeded environment. I look forward to continually improving our policies, through the courts while operations have continued under a procedures and performance over the years to come. temporary injunction. We are working diligently with local and federal government groups to establish a long-term solution. The municipality, in a thorough public consultation process, developed Sincerely, a new land-use plan that supports our ongoing mining activities. LOOKING FORWARD Everyone, in every New Gold operation, has contributed to our collective efforts in health, safety, environmental stewardship and socio-economic sustainability, and I extend my gratitude to Robert Gallagher the employees of New Gold for our continued high standards of President and CEO performance. Through 2011 and beyond, we will be guided, as New Gold Inc. always, by the Health, Safety, Environment and Sustainability (HSES) Committee of the Board of Directors. In 2008, New Afton and the Tk’emlups and Skeetchestn Bands collaborated on a Participation Agreement, which guides our policies for the Environment, Employment & Training, Business Opportunities and Socio-economic benefits. 8 NEW GOLD INC. | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 THERE’S MORE TO OUR COMMITMENT Wherever New Gold operates—in all stages of mining activity, from early exploration and planning, to commercial mining operations through to eventual closure—we are committed to excellence HEALTH, SAFETY, ENVIRONMENT AND in environmental stewardship and the management SUSTAINABILITY POLICY of our employees’ health, safety and overall wellAs a company, and as individuals, we are committed to these foundational principles, which provide a policy framework for each being. In our view, this is the path to building and of our operations as they implement programs and procedures that maintaining an enterprise that is productive and are appropriate to the local environment, culture, and communities.1 profitable for all stakeholders, over the long term. Our objectives are to: • ensure the health and safety of employees, contractors and visitors in the workplace • prevent pollution • minimize impact that mining operations may cause to the environment • demonstrate commitment to fostering sustainable communities • practice the progressive rehabilitation of areas impacted by our activities NEW GOLD THERE’S INC. | THERE’S MORE TOMORE OUR COMMITMENT To achieve these objectives we will: • apply a proactive risk management approach using best practices appropriate to the local conditions and needs that will meet our legal obligations as a minimum • identify and engage with our stakeholders and work to take their views, customs and culture into account throughout the life cycle of our operations • maintain a responsible mine closure plan that considers the future needs of the local communities UNITED NATIONS • continuously improve our health, safety and environmental GLOBAL COMPACT systems by establishing and reviewing our objectives and targets through evaluation, auditing and development of performance improvement plans • educate and train our employees and contractors and inform The UN Global Compact is ten principles, surrounding communities to promote the application of Health, representing core values, that New Gold Safety, Environment and Sustainability principles has chosen to support in all our operations. • seek and adopt sustainable practices in the use of natural resources taking into consideration the protection of the local and regional biodiversity where we operate Human Rights • maximize the reuse of materials and recycling of waste and 1 Businesses should support and respect the protection of minimize the use of consumables and raw materials internationally proclaimed human rights, and • promote economic prosperity in our surrounding communities, Environment both during and post mining operations, by fostering local 2 make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. 7 Businesses are asked to support a precautionary approach to entrepreneurship environmental challenges Labour We will report openly and regularly to our stakeholders on our 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the 8 undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental progress in meeting these objectives. effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining responsibility, and 4 the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour 9 encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. 5 the effective abolition of child labour, and Anti-Corruption 6 the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and 10 Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, occupation. including extortion and bribery. 1 For information regarding the makeup and mandate of New Gold’s Board of Directors and its Board Health, Safety, Environment and Sustainability Committee, please visit: www.newgold.com/company/corporategovernance 10 NEW GOLD INC. | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 THERE’S MORE TO OUR PEOPLE At New Gold, we believe that our people are our most valued assets regardless of gender, race, cultural background, age or religion . We strive to create a culture of inclusivity that begins at the top which is reflected in our hiring, promotion and overall human resource practices. We encourage tolerance and acceptance in worker-to-worker relationships as well. In each of our host communities we are Our company is the sum total of our employees’ strengths—and it recognized as an employer of choice as a result of is a company-wide policy to develop their careers and protect their health and safety. our competitive wages, above-average benefits and our policies of recognizing and rewarding employee We promote local employment through training and apprenticeship performance and promoting from within. opportunities. We support workplace diversity and fair labour practices at every operation. And we believe that everyone should return home injury-free after their workday. At all of our operations, we strive to foster a safety-committed culture that begins with a strong sense of personal responsibility and extends to the welfare of the entire team. A safe, well-trained workforce is a productive workforce. While we have had considerable success in achieving and maintaining excellent health and safety statistics, we recognize the human risks that mining operations represent and the need for constant vigilance. THERE’S MORE TO OUR PEOPLE 11 Health and Safety Statistics 2010 2009 2008 Lost-Time Injuries 15 21* 6 Fatalities 1 0 0 Lost-Time Injury Frequency Rate*** 0.85 1.22* 0.37 All-Injuries Frequency Rate*** 5.42** 4.66* 3.73 Total Number of Employees and Contractors 1463 1281 1293 Turnover (%): 10 12 15 * Some of the 2009 previously reported injury statistics were based on erroneous information. These statistics have been corrected in this report. New Gold regrets the error. ** The All-Injuries Frequency Rate has increased, while Lost-Time Injuries have declined. This arises from people with recordable injuries who were still able to work (e.g. with limited duties or performing alternate tasks). The number of people who required medical treatment intervention (MTI) has remained reasonably constant over the last two years. In 2011, an audit is planned at all sites to improve the standardization of health and safety systems and programs. ***Lost-Time Injury Frequency Rate (LTIFR) is the number of lost-time injuries per 200,000 hours worked. (Lost-Time Injuries × 200,000) ÷ total hours worked AllInjuries Frequency Rate (AIFR) is the number of injuries per 200,000 hours worked. (Lost-Time Injuries + Medical Treatment Injuries + Restricted Duty Injuries) ÷ total hours worked × 200,000 STAFF DEVELOPMENT Mesquite The Mesquite Mine is a key economic engine in a region that is • establishment of guidelines for contractors affected by a challenging economy. We are an equal opportunity employer, which is reflected in a culturally and ethnically diverse • development and application of integrated procedures workforce. An ongoing challenge for the operation is the need to staff a mine in a primarily agricultural region. The success of our staff Peak Gold Mines development efforts is reflected in our production statistics as well At Peak Gold Mines, we manage 284 full-time staff and 23 as our accomplishments in health and safety contractors. All our staff participate in biannual Performance Effectiveness Reviews, which involve career development plans, In 2010 Mesquite’s workforce increased by approximately 10%. The provision of education assistance and succession planning. mine now employs 262 full-time staff and 12 contract employees. In consultation with the Cobar High School, we identified that Cerro San Pedro our successful “direct placement” of Year 10 and 11 apprentices Cerro San Pedro’s workforce comprises 403 employees and was contributing to a decline in the number of students remaining 42 contractors. We employ a team of mine-operations training through graduation. To combat this, we collaborated with the school specialists who run education and training programs for all operating and government to establish a school-based apprenticeship and personnel and contractors, including: training system which allows part-time employment and requires Year 12 completion. However, all selected students ultimately found • education (training and skills) permanent (direct placement) apprenticeships elsewhere, and we were forced to re-evaluate our position and offer direct placement, • compliance with standards or risk losing future tradespeople. For 2011, we were able to secure four apprenticeship positions. • integrated safety regulations • encouragement of teamwork 12 NEW GOLD INC. | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 We also support university students and graduates. In 2010, we Non-Discrimination and Diversity hosted five students from Australian universities and provided them At Cerro San Pedro, our preferential hiring of persons with special with an in-depth understanding of the mining industry. In addition, needs gained us recognition as an inclusive company from the state we offer a program that offers graduates work opportunities at government of San Luis Potosi. various New Gold sites on a rotation basis to provide students with international experience. At New Afton, there was one allegation of racial discrimination in 2010. An alleged comment, by a contract employee, was New Afton investigated and as a result the contractor’s President sent a letter New Afton’s philosophy is to promote an environment where people of apology to the First Nations, which also reaffirmed the contractor’s are engaged and have a say in their workplace, resulting in safe, anti-discrimination policy. happy and productive employees. Every employee is encouraged to have a Personal Development Plan, with short-term and longCollective Bargaining and Freedom of Association term goals, that can be used by supervisors to inform training and At all New Gold operations, workers enjoy the right to freedom education opportunities. of association as provided by applicable labour law. At Cerro San Pedro, mine workers are required to be members of their local union In 2010, training opportunities were plentiful as we roughly doubled association. the operation’s staff. An Underground Miner Training program improved the success rate and safety of new miners. Through the Community Inclusion British Columbia Aboriginal Mine Training Association (BCAMTA) When the New Afton mine is in active production, the Joint (of which New Gold is a founding member) we have hired and Participation Agreement with the Tk’emlups and Skeetchestn First trained 39 aboriginal employees. The majority of participants were Nations will support education, jobs and contracting opportunities hired for the Underground Mine Training program and are now and provide revenue sharing. employed as underground miners. We worked with a number of aboriginal employment and training services to help us attract HEALTH AND SAFETY candidates and continue to encourage their success. Mesquite • accident and injury frequency have decreased significantly since We also contributed to a local initiative with the development and 2007, when mining operations restarted delivery of two levels of Heavy Equipment courses. Participants • wellness checks were introduced in the employees’ work area trained at our mine site and were educated by trainers from Thompson Rivers University. The 2011 course is already heavily • an Employee Awards Program was instituted to recognize subscribed by the local and Northern BC First Nations bands. excellence in regulatory compliance, health and wellness, injury prevention and attendance WORKPLACE DIVERSITY, NON-DISCRIMINATION AND EQUITY Cerro San Pedro Our policy, which guides all operations, is not to discriminate on • in 2010, a tragic truck-driving fatality occurred at our Cerro San the basis of race, religion, ethnicity, national origin, colour, gender, Pedro operation. We extend our deepest sympathies to the age, sexual orientation, citizenship, veteran status, marital status family and friends of our employee, and we have conducted a or disability. Harassment, including sexual, physical and verbal, is thorough assessment of the causing factors in order to prevent prohibited. future incidents We strictly prohibit child labour, as well as forced or compulsory • the Safety Committee was established in 2010, with a mandate labour, and no such incidents were reported at any New Gold that includes integrated participation at all levels of the company. operation. Some policies and site-specific notes: From September to year-end, five internal safety inspections With a dedicated Health, Safety and Training Department, in 2010 we made positive strides in building a teamoriented safety culture. Mine Rescue Team Exercise, New Afton Mine. 14 NEW GOLD INC. | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 were made and 80% of their findings resulted in corrective trained in the use of Jaws of Life and Self Contained Breathing actions Apparatus (SCBA) • the entire workforce has been trained in cardiopulmonary Peak Gold Mines resuscitation (CPR), automatic external defibrillation and first aid • we continue to develop and improve our systems, promoting a culture of safety through team and individual behaviours, Cerro San Pedro supported by formal training in investigation and analysis and • our emergency and first-aid teams participate in a continuous safety and risk perception coaching programs training process, which integrates members from all work areas • our Health, Safety & Training Department provides advice, and provides the capacity to respond to the various circumstances services and support to all. It is focused on proactive safety that may arise, including hazardous and waste material handling, measures including hazard reporting, safe-act observations, spill management and the handling of personal injuries corrective action completions and training audits • in September 2010, the mine hosted the XI National Competition • our Lost-Time Injury performance has been consistent for seven of Mine Rescue Teams organized by the Mexican Chamber of years. While All-Injury frequency has increased the injuries have Mines (CAMIMEX). Cerro San Pedro won two first-place prizes been less serious overall, with less time lost for CPR and Best Practice New Afton Peak Gold Mines • with a dedicated Health, Safety and Training Department we • two dedicated training officers support a wide range of general made positive strides in building a team-oriented safety culture. and specialist training programs Among the year’s achievements: a formal site risk assessment • our programs range from site access inductions, hazard was completed, high-level risks were recognized and actions identification and risk assessment, to industrial and occupational to reduce risk were identified. Proactive “near-miss” reporting first aid, confined space entry, basic firefighting, computer skills increased and more emphasis was placed on hazard reporting and various equipment operation certifications • as a result of our 2009 safety performance, we received a Notable • in 2010, dozens of mine employees were trained and safety Achievement in Safety award from the John T. Ryan Committee certified in various specialties including Metalliferous Miningof the Canadian Institute of Mining and Metallurgy for mining in Underground Safety, Mine Emergency Response Rescue, British Columbia Processing-Metalliferous Mines, Laboratory Skills, OHS • the All-Injury Frequency rate increased from 3.18 to 4.92, Committee Training and High Voltage Switching however, we reduced the Lost-Time Injury rate to zero with no • the mine was represented in the 2010 Victorian Mines Rescue lost-time injuries recorded for the year Competition • 2010’s safety training programs included fall prevention, awareness, firefighting, ergonomics and body positioning as well as rigging training. Some training involved the use of equipment simulators to further reduce risk. EMERGENCY RESPONSE Mesquite • we continue to maintain a specially-trained Mine Emergency Rescue Team (MERT), which includes certified Emergency Responders and Emergency Responder Instructors, who are NEW GOLD INC. | THERE’S MORE New Afton • Emergency Response team capacity was increased (to 32 members from 20) and we provided three BC Mine Rescue courses for new team members including the five-day BC Basic Mine Rescue course which covers rescue breathing apparatus, rope rescue, firefighting and more. Training sessions were held THERE’S MORE TO throughout the year TRAINING LOCAL • the team again competed, with good performances, at the annual BC Mine Rescue competition in Fernie, BC. The competition COMMUNITIES simulates real-life situations and tests skills in first aid, extrication, firefighting, rope work and general mine rescue knowledge LABOUR PRACTICES At New Gold, our commitment to fair and equitable labour practices extends throughout every facet of our operations. We adhere to, In many cases, our safety-first culture and go beyond, the labour principles of the United Nations Global Compact. We preferentially hire locally and engage local services. begins before a new worker’s first day on the We maintain diverse workplaces where health and safety are a job. Through our Underground Miner Training priority. We strive to include all levels of employees in decisionmaking processes. Our Whistleblower Policy allows any employee Program, and our founding support for the British to communicate a concern or complaint without fear of retribution or Columbia Aboriginal Mine Training Association, we are negative consequences, and to expect a timely response. introducing young workers from local communities to safe, rewarding careers in mining. New Gold consistently strives to make a positive contribution to the communities in which we operate. At our New Afton operation 39 employees have graduated from the BCAMTA program, most of whom are now working underground. 16 NEW GOLD INC. | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 THERE’S MORE TO OUR COMMUNITIES At New Gold, we foster open communication with local residents and community leaders and strive to be a full partner in the long-term sustainability of the communities and regions in which we operate. Community engagement begins while a project is still in the Only by thoroughly understanding the people, development stage, and continues through the mine’s life and after closure. New Gold employees actively participate in community their histories, and their needs and plans, can organisations. At community gatherings and events, information we engage in a meaningful development process regarding upcoming activities is disseminated in presentation, that will contribute to their cultural and economic newsletters and reports. Throughout a project’s life cycle, we health and welfare. regularly host meetings with local residents and leaders, in order to remain connected to the communities and their priorities and concerns, and to help resolve existing or potential disputes. Community feedback on our activities is encouraged. Community Expenditure (%)* 2010 2009 2008 Local 22 17 22 Regional 52 47 44 *The total spent on salaries, wages, services and community support in the proximity to, and the near-area influence of, the mining operation. Expressed as a percentage of the total operating cost. Community Grievances* 4 20 16 *The extent to which grievance mechanisms were used to resolve disputes relating to land use, customary rights of local communities and Indigenous Peoples, and the outcomes. Our stakeholder groups include employees and their families; communities and people affected by our operations; all levels of government authority; traditional leaders; civic, special-interest and non-governmental advocacy organisations (NGOs); those who supply or purchase from our operations; shareholders; media; joint venture partners and industry associations. THERE’S MORE TO OUR COMMUNITIES 17 COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT Peak Gold Mines Mesquite We maintain strong relationships with the Cobar community At Mesquite, we maintain open lines of communication with all area through an annual community meeting and an Open Day at the mine stakeholders. In 2010, our engagement efforts included: when hundreds of visitors are welcomed. The feedback from these interactions is overwhelmingly positive. • presentations to community organisations, service clubs and schools We support local emergency services by making employees available for service as members of the local Fire Brigades and State • participation in community gatherings and events Emergency Services. Our people serve key roles in various local • taking every opportunity to interact with federal and state associations: Peak Gold staff members are on the boards of Cobar regulators, regional mining and mineral enthusiasts and Enterprise Facilitation, the Cobar Business Association, Cobar Water community-based organisations Board and the local Emergency Management Committee. • improving communications with schools and educational New Afton organisations, and working to meet the needs of California, We actively pursue positive relationships with our neighbouring Imperial County and tribal-based school districts communities and seek out opportunities for productive partnerships. Some of our efforts in 2010 included: Cerro San Pedro At Cerro San Pedro, our close relationship continues with the • mine visits and forums provided to various groups, including First residents of the municipality of Cerro de San Pedro, which comprises Nations groups, local neighbours, the Kamloops fire department, eleven communities, as well as the community-owned land holders RCMP and Paramedics (ejidos) within the project’s sphere of influence. • an Open Day attended by 272 family members of workers In 2010, the operation was accredited a Socially Responsible featured exhibits and stalls from departments such as geology, Company by the non-profit Mexican Centre for Philanthropy engineering and environment. Suppliers and contractors were (CEMEFI). To achieve this recognition, we met specified criteria in presented. The First Nations exhibit was one of the most popular four areas of corporate social responsibility: featuring arts and crafts and a historical background on local First Nations bands and the region 1. Life quality in the workplace (health and safety, training, diversity, work and family balance, human resources management) INDIGENOUS COMMUNITIES Wherever our operations interact with indigenous peoples, we 2. Links with the community (communication on corporate social endeavour to understand and respect traditional values, customs responsibility, civic responsibility, social investment and social and culture. We take meaningful action to serve their development balance) needs and priorities through collaborative agreements aimed at creating jobs, training and lasting socio-economic benefits. 3. Care and preservation of the environment (policy, investment, training, communications, resources management and Mesquite transport impact mitigation) Approximately 3,000 members of the Quechan tribe reside within the mine’s area of influence. 4. Business ethics (human rights and dignity, corporate governance, stakeholder engagement, ethical commitment, We continue our outreach activities to build relations and gain trust, fairness and inclusiveness, transparency, strategic alignment, focusing on education and health initiatives, which include aftercombat of corruption, responsible publicity and communication) 18 NEW GOLD INC. | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 school activities for students to promote personal wellness, nutrition and other university studies. These scholarships were awarded and physical exercise. in 2010, all of which is in addition to the terms of the Participation Agreement Peak Gold Mines • sponsorships in 2010 also included contributions to each band The local peoples are the Murdi Paaki. In cooperation with the for Pow Wow and other celebrations Murdi Paaki Regional Enterprise Corporation we are supporting an indigenous-operated nursery project for indigenous trees, shrubs, COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT herbs and other plants. The plants will be used for rehabilitation of We continually seek opportunities to support community our operation, as well as other mines in the Cobar region, and other organisations and activities with a special focus on encouraging landholders seeking plants for land rehabilitation. local entrepreneurship to promote diversified, sustainable economic prosperity. New Afton The project is located within the asserted traditional territories of Mesquite the Tk’emlups and Skeetchestn Bands which are part of the larger Unemployment is in the 30% range around Mesquite and we have cultural group known as the Secwepemc or Shuswap First Nation. sought to assist the region’s economic diversification and help boost Following extensive consultation with the two bands, a grounda severely depressed area. To these ends, we engaged and assisted breaking Participation Agreement was formed. This legally binding with sponsorship of a series of economic development and business document was signed in 2008 and guides the way we do business attraction efforts aimed at bringing new industry to the area. Efforts at New Afton. The agreement focuses on the environment (land and focused on renewable energy companies (wind, solar, geothermal), water use, and protection of cultural/heritage values); employment as well as manufacturing, logistics and international trade, agroand training (preferential hiring/promotions for band members, technology and agribusiness. training and education opportunities); business opportunities (preferential contracts and joint venturing); and the socio-economic We also participate in, and contribute to a number of community (compensation and royalties). The Participation Agreement has organisations with, sponsorships and volunteering in several brought about many benefits, including: community organisations to provide after-school education and homework help, educational scholarships, industrial and technical • the mine’s workforce is now 20% First Nations, nearly oneeducation and small business seminars. These organisations quarter of which are from the two local bands included Boys & Girls Clubs, the Salvation Army, Chambers of • over US$2.7 million in spending during 2010 has gone to Commerce, the Veterans Employment Committee, a number of Shuswap First Nations’ businesses state and local economic development committees and councils and advisory boards for college/technical preparation and Applied • dozens of First Nations people have received training through Sciences. the BCAMTA, and many have been hired • bands have been awarded direct contracts for services including For Mesquite in 2010, the event that overshadowed all others concrete aggregates, environmental monitoring, janitorial was the 7.2 magnitude earthquake that struck the region in April. services, catering, fencing, maintenance and catering Although the mine was unaffected the company and our employees quickly rallied — even though many of our people and their homes • bands have embarked on joint-venture opportunities including were directly affected — and organized an emergency food site security drive. Employees donated over 20,000 pounds of food, clothes, • annual post-secondary scholarships have been awarded to blankets and other items. These were routed through community several band members for programs such as Helicopter Pilot organisations such as the Imperial Valley Food Bank and the Centre licensing, Business Administration studies, Masters in Education for Family Solutions for prompt distribution to those most affected. Last year, the New Afton operation directed over US$2.7 million in spending to Shuswap First Nations’ businesses. The bands have been contracted for many essential services, from maintenance to supplying concrete aggregates to catering. 20 NEW GOLD INC. | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 Cerro San Pedro We continued our support for the Cobar Enterprise Facilitation Every year, the Cerro San Pedro operation invests directly in initiative which provides knowledge and support to create new community development. In 2010, we donated 100 ounces of gold businesses and expand existing ones. Its Resource Board, in which and 5,000 ounces of silver (approximately US$220,000 or 25% of we participate, offers entrepreneurial advice that has contributed to the municipal budget) to the Municipality of Cerro de San Pedro. local business’ effectiveness and profitability. This contribution advances the Municipal Development Plan and triggers federal and state funding. The Cobar Business Association awarded us Certificates of Excellence for establishing the Sustainable Apprentice & Trainee In addition, we contributed through the Foundation for Preservation Strategy, and in collaboration with Cobar Primary Health Centre, of the Village of Cerro de San Pedro AC, which directs funds to the establishing the Good Health Program. We were also nominated for most pressing needs, and finances small and promising businesses. our initiatives in tourism and environmental achievement. Our support is behind these programs and more: New Afton • free transportation to and from school for children in remote At New Afton, we endeavour to use local suppliers and contractors communities. Computer equipment and a satellite connection for goods and services wherever possible and spent the majority of have been provided and four media classrooms are fully our operating expenditures (nearly $100 million including salaries operational to serve more than 600 students. A primary school and insurance) within British Columbia. We strive to contribute classroom was constructed in Planta del Carmen positively to the communities in which we operate, and provided CA$100,000 in funding for various sporting, health and community • in coordination with the Municipal Government, many roads groups as well as scholarships and donations to the two local First have been and continue to be paved including the main access Nations bands. road to Cerro de San Pedro. Restoration work continued on the historic St. Peter the Apostle Church and a new chapel was DISPUTE RESOLUTION constructed in Planta del Carmen When disputes arise, we strive for prompt identification of the • free medical consultations were provided in ten communities issue followed by open dialogue and interactive engagement. Only including Cerro de San Pedro. Two doctors regularly visited though a respectful, mutually-beneficial resolution of disputes can the communities and also gave talks on disease prevention and we continue to earn and keep our social license to operate within a family planning. In total, more than 2,300 consultations were community. provided Mesquite • other sponsored activities included artists’ exhibitions, theatrical One external complaint was received regarding dust. This occurred productions, fiestas and recreational events in promotion of local during a power outage when water pumping capacity for road dust culture and traditions control was constrained. Procedures have been reviewed to ensure an acceptably high standard of dust management. Peak Gold Mines At Peak Gold Mines, we recognize the importance of the town of Cerro San Pedro Cobar’s ongoing viability even after the mine’s eventual closure. We In 2010, through a series of community meetings, steps were taken believe that it is the responsibility of all stakeholders to establish the to implement a practical mechanism to receive and respond to culture and infrastructure that will ensure the town’s sustainability. suggestions, comments, questions and complaints. Close ties exist Over US$19.7 million, excluding salaries, was spent locally in Cobar between the company, the authorities, and community members while the majority of our operating expenditures (approximately and leaders, but this mechanism (which results from an independent US$140 million, including salaries of $28 million and royalties of $5.7 consultant’s survey) provides an opportunity to improve our million) was spent within the state of New South Wales. channels of communication. NEW GOLD INC. | THERE’S MORE Legal challenges, primarily related to a land-use dispute, have proceeded through the courts, while operations have continued under a temporary injunction. Opposition comes from a group of mainly non-resident individuals, and became a judicial matter in 2009. We are currently working on a long-term solution with local and federal government groups. In a thorough public consultation process, the municipality has developed a land-use plan that unambiguously supports our ongoing mining activities. THERE’S MORE TO Peak Gold Mines COMMUNITY A 24-hour-a-day Complaints Hotline is advertised in the local newspaper. In early 2010, three noise complaints were received that SUPPORT related to drilling operations at Great Cobar and we engaged with the complainants to find a suitable solution. To minimize noise, a noise barrier was constructed from shipping containers. Since we helped establish the Cobar New Afton No complaints regarding the operations at New Afton were received Enterprise Facilitation initiative, during 2010. 18 small enterprises have opened for business including a florist shop, movie theatre and an adventure tourism enterprise. So far, 51 new jobs have been created. Near the Peak Gold Mines operation, the town of Cobar, NSW, is an historical mining town with a population of over 5,000. The Cobar Enterprise Facilitation initiative is an example of our commitment to community building beyond the mine itself. The organisation helps people achieve their goals of starting up a business for themselves, and expanding existing businesses. The objective is to help the community diversify and solidify its economic base. Peak Gold Mines was a founder of the initiative and several staff are currently members of the initiative’s board. 22 NEW GOLD INC. | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 THERE’S MORE TO OUR ENVIRONMENTAL POLICIES At every stage of the mining life cycle, New Gold’s operations apply best practices in environmental management. From the earliest site investigations, we carry out comprehensive environmental studies We take a proactive risk-management approach to safeguarding the to establish baseline measurements for flora, fauna, environment guided by high international and national standards. Working with the appropriate government agencies, we ensure land, air and water. After mining activities are that our activities meet or exceed their requirements. Should complete, our objective is to restore the land to a any incidents occur, we are committed to prompt reporting and level of productivity similar to its pre-mining capacity. remediatory measures to prevent or minimize environmental impacts. All incident reporting is encouraged as a key factor in monitoring and management for continuing improvement. In all our operations we place a high priority on minimizing our energy consumption, reducing our carbon footprint, reducing our material consumption and minimizing water use (through efficiency, reuse and recycling). THERE’S MORE TO OUR ENVIRONMENTAL POLICIES 23 REGULATORY COMPLIANCE Peak Gold Mines • the number of internally recorded incidents decreased to 32 Reportable Incidents † 2010 2009 2008 (from 50 in 2009). These included noise complaints, waste management issues and minor hydrocarbon spills 7 2 2 WATER USAGE In 2010, seven non-compliant incidents were recorded. At New Afton in April, one minor non-compliance (related to drill site Water consumption 2010 2009 2008 reclamation) was detected, reported, and immediately resolved process (cubic metres) 3,514,884 2,045,615 1,321,583 with guidance from the local regulatory authority. At Mesquite in March, after a site inspection by Imperial County Air Pollution Responsible water use and management is encouraged through such Control District, four minor Notices to Comply were issued and measures as efficient use, recycling, treatment and conservation. resolved. In April, the California Department of Toxic Substances The increase in consumption is due to the addition of the Mesquite Control performed an inspection of our Accidental Release Program mine which joined New Gold in June of 2009. This is its first full year (cyanide system) which resulted in the issue and resolution of of reporting. one minor non-compliance order. At Peak Gold Mines, an effluent release from the tailing storage facility occurred during a November Mesquite storm, which was reported to the New South Wales Department of Water is predominantly used for dust control on the mine haul roads Environment, Climate Change and Water. and for makeup water in the process due to water retained in the leach piles and some evaporative losses. To minimize water use, dust Mesquite suppressants are applied to roads on a quarterly basis. While we • the number of internally recorded incidents dropped to 23 (from are generally successful in our efforts to manage traffic and reduce 26 in 2009), and the incident severity declined dust, dust suppressants cannot be used safely on steeper inclines so • no cyanide-related wildlife mortalities were reported (down from routine water application is essential. 5 in 2009) • approximately 66% of extracted ground water was used for dust • one environmental complaint was received (down from 3 in control (down from 75% in 2009, likely due to 2010’s above2009) for excessive dust during a power outage. The power average precipitation) outage lasted nearly two days but caused no environmental incidents, a testament to good design and effective emergency • evaporative losses in the process are minimized through backup systems monitoring of solution application and recycling of process solutions New Afton • 21,378,661 m3 of process solution was recycled, as compared to • the number of internally recorded incidents increased to 17 (up 540,456 m3 of makeup water (512,594 m3 in 2009), or 2.5 % of from 9 in 2009); all were low-to-minor consequence. Most were total recycled solution minor fuel and oil spills below external reporting thresholds • in 2010, the entire water supply system was approved as a • proactive monitoring programs ensure air, soil and water quality certified community water system in the vicinity of our operations and identify and protect native wildlife and plant species †At New Gold, we require all sites to report every environmental event that is outside of normal operating procedures, regardless of its magnitude. Some minor incidents are reported internally only, while others may be significant enough to be reported to regulators, but still may have little adverse environmental impact. New Gold’s HSES Corporate Reporting Standard includes an Incident Reporting and Ranking Table with categories from Insignificant to Catastrophic, based on severity and consequence. 24 NEW GOLD INC. | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 Cerro San Pedro that ground and surface water are contained on-site and flow toward Cerro San Pedro continues to investigate options for reducing the the New Afton pit or other containment structures. This ensures that water volume withdrawn from the aquifer: water remains on the site and that downstream impacts are unlikely. • leach solution storage ponds have been adapted to enable the Water quality is monitored on an ongoing basis, on-site and at capture and use of rainwater for process use. Rainwater can the residences of downstream users, and results have remained be captured in an adapted pond that was installed for leach consistent with baseline measurements. On a quarterly basis, well solution storage and surge capacity. In 2009, some 8,000 m3 water is measured for a suite of parameters and a report is provided were collected. However in 2010, no rainwater was available comparing the results with appropriate guidelines: for capture. The process operates as a closed circuit without discharge • in 2010, we received our Conditional Water Licence from the Ministry of Environment’s Water Stewardship Division following • a domestic wastewater treatment plant was authorized and consultation with First Nations and neighbouring stakeholders. built. Over the year, more than 820 m3 were treated. With the The licence provides for the mine’s water needs while we treatment plant in operation we have complete recirculation of continue to identify efficiencies to reduce our fresh water all available water in use at the operation. Treated water is used requirement for nursery and green area irrigation • in 2010, we received an Effluent Permit from the Ministry of Peak Gold Mines Environment which is required under the BC Environmental As a result of the last decade’s drought conditions in western New Management Act. The permit specifies conditions of authorized South Wales, Peak Gold Mines implemented stringent water saving discharges, operational requirements and sampling requirements and recycling measures. • we also participated in an industry study to develop additional water quality guidelines to protect aquatic systems and users • all mine water is pumped into a recycled-water dam which has the capacity to store nearly 350 thousand m3 of recycled and IMPROVING ENERGY EFFICIENCY AND REDUCING OUR storm water. Even though our water allocation has returned to CARBON FOOTPRINT 100%, the recycling efforts have continued At New Gold, we believe that improving the energy efficiency of • in 2010, 405,260 m3 of raw water was used, just over 40% of the our operations benefits the environment and brings inherent cost annual allocation advantages. We recognize that our activities result in the emission of greenhouse gases (GHGs) — from the mobile equipment required • we investigated feasible alternatives to increase the Peak Tailings to operate a mine, for example, and from the thermally-generated Storage Facility capacity. The facility was originally commissioned electric power that we purchase to supply our operations. in 1992 when processing began, and greater capacity is necessary to accommodate the mine’s expected life to 2017 Our objective is to improve our measurement capabilities and to and beyond. As a result, the water management structures will manage an accurate database of these and other sources of GHGs be enlarged within the existing footprint to allow an increase in with a view to identifying viable energy alternatives and offsets that tailings storage capacity can reduce our carbon footprint. New Afton In the mine’s semi-arid climate, water management and conservation are essential and we strive to minimize the water drawn from Lake Kamloops through recycling and reuse, and by preventing water discharge from the site. Hydrogeological testing has determined At Cerro San Pedro, our on-site nursery has produced over 71,500 plants of various species for use in reforestation. 26 NEW GOLD INC. | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 Direct Energy Mesquite Consumption 2010 2009 2008 In early 2009, Mesquite’s energy consumption was audited and Diesel Consumption its GHG emissions qualitatively measured. The audit identified (000s litres) 42,598 32,989 21,279 opportunities for innovative energy-saving projects some of which Gasoline Consumption were further evaluated: (000s litres) 587 215 211 Propane (tonnes) 805 not reported not reported • we evaluated technologies for micro-hydro energy production from solutions returning from the heap leach piles. We Explosives (tonnes) 10,836 not reported not reported determined that while the technologies have improved, this project is not yet economically feasible Indirect Energy Consumption • we evaluated replacing the original plant’s water boiler and Power Purchased (MWh): 120,656 107,241 108,313 carbon kiln with more energy-efficient equipment. This will yield a positive return and the equipment will be replaced when the timing is appropriate Greenhouse Gas Emissions 2010 2009 2008 To ensure that our carbon footprint is calculated using the best Diesel (as tonnes of CO2) 114,231 83,021 57,057 available technology, we have evaluated various models, public and Gasoline (as tonnes of CO2) 1,353 497 480 proprietary, and have selected the one with the greatest technical credibility. Propane (as tonnes of CO2) 2,293 not reported not reported Power (as tonnes of CO2) 80,229 71,922 55,818 Of several innovative projects that were identified, three were Increased energy consumption and GHG emissions are due to the addition of the selected and funded: 1) Large Equipment Energy Efficiency, 2) Solar Mesquite Mine which joined New Gold in June of 2009. This is its first full year of Campus Research and 3) Sub-Metering Site Energy Consumption. reporting. C02 emissions generated by mobile equipment are calculated from diesel fuel, gasoline and propane consumption using the WRI/WBCSD Greenhouse Gas protocol for Direct Emissions (Scope 1 Emissions). Diesel emissions reported above Cerro San Pedro include the greenhouse gas component of fuel oil used in ANFO explosives. C02 generated indirectly from purchased energy is calculated using the WRI/WBCSD At CSP, direct and indirect energy consumption continued to be Greenhouse Gas protocol for Electricity Purchase (Scope 2 Emissions). documented for GHG emissions monitoring. In 2010, planning was THERE’S MORE TO OUR ENVIRONMENTAL POLICIES 27 progressed for energy consumption assessment and conservation • in 2010, we received an air discharge permit, which specifies the opportunity identification. operational requirements for those features of the mine that may affect air quality. The permit also specifies the air quality sampling Peak Gold Mines (the number, type and location of samples) that will be required At Peak Gold Mines we are committed to accurately measuring during operations carbon emissions, reporting emissions through the Australian • in 2010, we joined the BC Hydro Power Smart program which Government’s National Greenhouse and Energy Reporting System seeks to identify areas where energy-saving improvements can and sustainability reporting and identifying feasible ways to reduce be made energy consumption and carbon emissions. OTHER AIR EMISSIONS • we monitor our operation’s energy consumption continually. Our Dust levels are a specific air-quality aspect of open-pit mining power consumption per tonne of ore milled has declined from operations and all New Gold operations maintain air-monitoring 2008, but has remained consistent since 2009 stations that monitor the levels and composition of dust. • in support of our commitment to energy efficiency and reducing GHG emissions, an energy-use audit was conducted in 2010, Mesquite with several recommendations to be assessed further in 2011 Dust is monitored on a monthly basis and the results reported quarterly. Dust monitors are located at points north, south, east and New Afton west, near the perimeter of mining activities. In 2010, our operations New Afton is committed to minimizing impacts on regional air remained within permitted air quality limits. quality. Since the project is in the construction phase, our efforts to minimize GHG emissions are focused on the procurement stage so Over the year, several dust suppressants were evaluated. The that energy efficiency is considered as equipment is purchased: current product is naturally-occurring magnesium chloride which is applied on active, flat-lying, high-use roads property-wide. • baseline monitoring as part of the regulatory approval process established pre-operation air quality that can be compared Minor modifications to the storm water diversion around the against future routine monitoring results Rainbow pit were made to help reduce blowing wind and dust and 28 NEW GOLD INC. | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 shield part of the pit from the highway. Despite these and other vibration levels (including overpressure) were reported as exceeding efforts, one dust-related complaint was received (down from three the requirements defined by the Licence. As a requirement of our complaints in 2009). development approval, noise levels are monitored at the nearest residences to our operations. The noise limits are set by the Cerro San Pedro Australian Environmental Protection Authority (EPA) and results are Monitoring results indicate that air quality in the area of the mine was reported annually to all regulators. consistent with historical observations. Elevated values recorded in the first quarter of the year were associated with dry weather. In 2010, we received three noise complaints regarding an exploration drill rig at Great Cobar and night-time monitoring revealed that the Peak Gold Mines licensed noise limits may have been exceeded. The rig was shut In 2009, the operation began monthly dust monitoring (exceeding down at night until the noise issue was resolved: a larger muffler was the license requirement for quarterly monitoring) to improve the fitted to the rig and a noise barrier created from shipping containers. database and our understanding of seasonal dust patterns. We Subsequent noise monitoring confirmed that the noise level had moved to the routine use of a natural dust suppressant, magnesium decreased sufficiently to continue night drilling. chloride, for more effective dust control and water conservation. No dust-related complaints were received during 2010. WASTE MANAGEMENT As with any mining activity, New Gold’s operations generate New Afton waste materials. Process waste includes the non-mineralized rock Dust from mine traffic was identified as an area for improvement, that must be removed and disposed safely in order to access the especially during the construction phase. To minimize impacts, a mineralized ore. It also includes remnant leach piles after gold and water truck was used in high-dust areas to reduce emissions with silver extraction has completed or, in the case of Peak Gold Mines, water spray, and environmentally-safe magnesium chloride dust the tailings after gold and copper mineral concentrate has been suppressant was used in areas of heavy traffic. obtained. Planning for a mine’s closure — which is an essential part of every mining operation — begins at the design stage and Ambient dust has been monitored for a number of years, and in continues through the mine life to ensure the physical and chemical 2011, the exhaust from the mine’s workings will also be monitored stability of the waste material that will be left behind. Each of our to ensure that emissions are in compliance with environmental properties has obtained approval for their rehabilitation plans and, permitting. as discussed below, practice programs of progressive rehabilitation and reclamation. NOISE POLLUTION New Afton Recycling of non-process waste is another essential part of good With construction progressing rapidly the underground working environmental management and is practiced at all New Gold sites. areas must be ventilated. To ensure that ventilation noise is within Typically, recycled materials include scrap metal, used oil, plastics, compliance guidelines and does not pose issues with neighbours, aluminum, cardboard, batteries as well as wastewater. we have engaged noise-modelling consultants to guide the design of the ventilation fans. Process Waste 2010 2009 2008 Waste Rock (000s tonnes) 52,570 40,408 14,517 Peak Gold Mines Vibrations — from blasting and general mining — are limited by the Leach Piles – to reclaim (tonnes) 0 0 0 operation’s Environmental Protection Licence, and maintained well below a level that might cause damage to buildings or infrastructure. Tailings (000s tonnes) 747 794 769 Our levels are continually monitored, and any noise or vibration Currently, all leach piles remain in productive use. that exceeds the defined maximum levels is recorded. In 2010, no COMMITTED TO REDUCING WILDLIFE MORTALITIES With the 2009 shutdown, and 2010 sale of our Amapari 15 mine in Brazil, wildlife mortalities have decreased significantly. Zero mortality occurred in 2010 as a result of cyanide exposure. Four wildlife mortalities occurred due to other causes. All wildlife mortalities were nonendangered species (as identified by national legislation and the International Union for the Conservation of Nature). 5 Cyanide management is an issue of critical importance in 4 our three cyanide-using operations. Continued diligence has resulted in the steady decrease in wildlife mortality due to contact with cyanide. As part of our commitment as new signatories to the International Cyanide Management Code, we will certify our cyanide-using 2008 2009 2010 operations within the next three years. WILDLIFE MORTALITIES 30 NEW GOLD INC. | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 Non-Process Waste electronics). In addition, the operation’s paper, cardboard, plastic, Recycled 2010 2009 2008 glass and metals are recycled using a local recycling service provider. Paper, Plastic, Metals (tonnes) 599.6 686.7 483 In 2010, Peak Gold Mines diverted 17.8 tonnes of waste (19% of the operation’s total waste) that would otherwise have ended up in Oil & Lubricants (000s litres) 654.2 563.1 245.8 landfill. Mesquite New Afton Mesquite’s Waste Management Plan, which was initiated in 2009, New Afton is committed to recycling waste wherever possible. In was finalized in 2010. The recycling program includes scrap metal, 2010, office paper, cardboard, aluminum, plastics and batteries were calibration check gas cylinders, toner cartridges and batteries, separated from general waste streams and recycled at a local service antifreeze, used oil and drained oil filters. provider. Plans for 2011 include expanding the recycling practices to the wider site, and finding a viable waste stream for fluorescent Cerro San Pedro lights and printer cartridges. At Cerro San Pedro, hazardous waste such as used oil and oilimpregnated solids (rags, trash, filters, soil) are placed in temporary CYANIDE MANAGEMENT storage for hazardous industrial waste, and packaged and labelled While cyanide has inherent toxic properties, its safe transport, according to Mexican regulations. An approved firm collects the handling, use and destruction are well understood and manageable. waste once a week, and is responsible for sending it to treatment and All New Gold mining operations use cyanide in the gold extraction recycling as appropriate. Cerro San Pedro also recycles significant process, following procedures that are strictly controlled for the quantities of plastic, polyethylene, cardboard, aluminum and metal safety of personnel and the environment. In October 2010, New scrap. The site achieved a 25% reduction in municipal solid waste Gold was accepted by the International Cyanide Management generation compared to 2009. Institute as a signatory to the International Cyanide Management Code (ICMC), which is renowned as the international benchmark for Peak Gold Mines transporting, storing and using cyanide. For more information, visit In 2009 and 2010, Peak Gold Mines changed the way waste streams the Institute’s website at www.cyanidecode.org. Under the ICMC, are handled, and recycled waste steel and other metals, batteries, New Gold has committed to the certification of its three cyanideoil, some types of grease and e-waste (computers and other consuming operations within a three-year period. THERE’S MORE TO OUR ENVIRONMENTAL POLICIES 31 Wildlife mortalities from of our employees and supervisors, we experienced no wildlife cyanide exposure 2010 2009 2008 mortalities related to cyanide use (down from five bird mortalities Birds (non-endangered species) 0 5 3 in 2009). Mammals (non-endangered species) 0 0 4 Peak Gold Mines Amphibians (non-endangered species) 0 0 8 Peak Gold Mines is committed to the ICMC certification of its operation. Wildlife safety is a high priority for the ICMC, and in Cerro San Pedro recent years we have reduced wildlife deaths to zero at our Tailings In 2010, Cerro de San Pedro conducted audits to monitor our Storage Facility through improved diligence in managing and environmental management system and maintain our ISO controlling certain discharges that previously attracted wildlife. In 14001:2004 certification. Preparatory work began for an application both 2009 and 2010, no wildlife deaths occurred. for ICMC certification. BIODIVERSITY Four wildlife deaths were recorded in 2010. A squirrel and a At New Gold sites, environmental stewardship also means chimionera viper were found deceased alongside a construction conserving the environment on those lands that are undisturbed road, and a gray fox and a Mexican mud turtle who accessed the by mining operations. On the lands that are affected by mining, storage pond area as a result of a faulty fence closure were drowned. restoration practices will be applied to create a habitat conducive to Cyanide exposure was not the cause of death, and none of these natural biodiversity. species is considered “threatened.” To prevent future incidents, protective measures and monitoring procedures were revised. Mesquite At the Mesquite mine, we are protective of the desert environment’s Mesquite flora and fauna. Among the local flora is Fairy Duster, a native species The Mesquite mine has undergone a gap audit review comparing its that is considered sensitive and protected under the California performance to the ICMC, ISO 14001 and OHSAS 18001. In 2011, Native Plant Protection Act. Within our active operating areas, Fairy Mesquite will pursue certification under the ICMC, and will seek Duster is salvaged and transplanted into reclaimed areas. other internationally recognized standards in the future. In 2010, as a result of proactive operating practices and the continued vigilance 32 NEW GOLD INC. | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 Among local fauna, the desert tortoise is a federally-listed threatened we are committed to continuous improvement and environmental and endangered species. Accordingly, specially-designed tortoise best practice in managing potential habitat. According to the fencing surrounds our entire property. Since 1985, more than 100 Threatened Species Conservation Act 1995, threats to endangered tortoises have been relocated from the mine site. Before work species come from introduced herbivores and predators. Therefore, commences in any new area, a survey is conducted, and in April after measures to control goat, rabbit, fox and cat populations are carried a 7.2 magnitude earthquake had occurred, and for the first time since out on all sites. We maintain fences to exclude livestock from 2007, a tortoise was encountered within the fenced project area. It neighbouring properties, and land clearing is only carried out when was relocated off the mine property by a qualified biologist. absolutely necessary and after an inspection by the environmental department. Cerro San Pedro The Cerro San Pedro operation is located within the boundaries of New Afton the central plateau and the foothills of the Sierra Madre Oriental. Located approximately 10 km west of Kamloops, the operation is in The area is characterized by alluvial valleys and low hills. the rain shadow of the British Columbia Coastal Mountains. Vegetation is predominantly thorny bush composed The area is very dry, with around 280 mm of rainfall mainly of shrubs, agaves, yucca or palms, and annually. The mine site is 701 m above sea level cactus — the typical species seen in arid and and lies within an area of hilly country mainly semi-arid regions of Mexico. Since this used for grazing. Despite a high level of vegetation does not support large fauna, previous disturbance from historical only birds and small mammals such mining activities, we have surveyed as coyotes, foxes, rabbits, squirrels, Cerro San Pedro’s and monitored the site for its ability to kangaroo rats, voles, and reptiles such biodiversity program maintain species richness as shown in as rattlesnakes are found. relocates native flora prior baseline studies, through all stages of development and through to eventual As part of Cerro San Pedro’s to mining activity. So far, closure. biodiversity program, native flora 90% of the rescued plants and fauna are monitored to verify, have survived. Given its previous disturbances, no among other parameters, the survival of sensitive zones remain in the area. As transplanted plants, the relocation of slowno runoff leaves the site, the mine does moving animal species, plant production not impact any off-site biodiversity. The and reforestation and the potential effects of fauna includes two at-risk species of toad (as change of land use due to the mine’s activities. indicated by Provincial or Federal databases), During the operating period to date, 90% of rescued the Western Toad and the Great Basin Spadefoot. plants have survived. Approvals for relocation and removal from areas which may put these animals at risk have been obtained. During the year both Peak Gold Mines endangered toad species were found on site, at which point work Peak Gold Mines is located in western New South Wales in gently was halted and the toads were relocated. undulating, semi-arid country that was extensively cleared and mined in the late 19th and early 20th century. Peak Gold Mines has We are trying to encourage the return of wildlife to areas that have assumed responsibility for rehabilitating the historic mine sites on been degraded by historical mining. Fifty-eight nesting boxes for our leases and has completed rehabilitation of some of these sites. birds and bats have been established which will be monitored to gauge the success of the program and to ensure they’re not used The initial Environmental Impact Assessment found no evidence of by invasive or pest species. Preliminary results are encouraging with critical habitat for threatened species on-site. At Peak Gold Mines, approximately 50% of the boxes occupied by native species. At Peak Gold Mines, threats to endangered species come from introduced herbivores and predators. To protect vulnerable species, we have installed fences and implemented other protective measures. 34 NEW GOLD INC. | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 ARCHAEOLOGY At Mesquite we continue to update our closure plan and its New Afton underlying costs. We are applying the best available industry As part of our commitment to “doing what’s right,” we are keen practices, and have retained a California Professional Engineer who to identify, catalogue and preserve any artefacts discovered in has specialized in this area. As required by accounting practices, what was traditional First Nations hunting territory. In 2010, four we are utilizing this expertise to update the closure costs for our inspections were carried out seeking archeological evidence Asset Retirement Obligations. We are applying the same model for as well as potential wildlife habitats in areas that were to be calculating our regulatory obligations, which are now in the form of disturbed during construction. Three rock fragments were found surety bonds. We have proposed to increase the regulatory obligation in an area that was not required for construction. They were small to accommodate approved expansion to the pit and heap leach piles. splinters of dacite, a rock not found locally, probably a result of sharpening stone tools in the area. The fragments were recorded Cerro San Pedro and left in-situ. At Cerro San Pedro and its surrounding area, the soil still shows the effects of historic mining activities, as was established by baseline RECLAMATION soil and sediment studies prior to the commencement of mining Habitat Restored activities. At year-end, the area of surface disturbance was 284.3 (hectares) 2010 2009 2008 hectares. The operation’s Environmental Management System 45 93 113 is designed to differentiate between the results of current mining As responsible mining operators several of New Gold’s sites, including Peak Gold activities, and the pre-existing baseline conditions. During the year, Mines and New Afton, are undertaking the assessment and rehabilitation of land 35,691 m3 of topsoil were recovered and stored, to yield a total disturbed by historic mining in their project areas. The sale of the Amapari mine in accumulation at year-end of 385,884 m3 for eventual use in site Brazil in early 2010 is reflected in the decreased area of surface reclamation activity. reclamation. To date, more than 23,300 cactus plants of five species Mesquite listed under environmental protection by the Mexican government In 2010, the operation’s footprint remained active and concurrent have been rescued and relocated to the botanical garden and nursery. reclamation was limited to six hectares. Plans for 2011 include These plants will be monitored until their eventual relocation as part concurrent reclamation of a portion of the Rainbow dump adjacent to of the reclamation program. Our on-site nursery produced over Highway 78. As of December 2010, the area of surface disturbance 71,500 plants of different species, for use in reforestation. In 2010, was 1,442.8 hectares. THERE’S MORE TO OUR ENVIRONMENTAL POLICIES 35 33 hectares in the community of Monte Caldera were reforested mining activity. At year-end, the area of surface disturbance was with 33,600 plants. 168.4 hectares. Peak Gold Mines We are committed to progressive rehabilitation which means that At Peak Gold Mines, five hectares of disturbed area were areas that are not required for current or future mining use will be rehabilitated. Rehabilitation of the tailings dam is underway and we rehabilitated prior to the mine’s closure and reclamation of disturbed are determining the most efficient, sustainable cover system. Work areas will proceed even while operations are continuing elsewhere in 2010 continued research studies of deep-rooted native perennial on site. In all our reclamation activities the aim is to return the plants to form the cover system. At year-end, the area of surface land to a productive state similar to that prior to mining. The main disturbance was 189.8 hectares. reclamation activities performed during 2010 were: Peak Gold Mines has moved toward a progressive closure model • seeding of 1.2 hectares of disturbed land (mainly from buried which will focus on rehabilitating historic areas in the years leading services installation) up to the closure of operational sites. We have assumed responsibility • clearing of 750 m2 of knapweed (a noxious local weed) for rehabilitating the historic mine sites found on our mining leases including the New Occidental, Chesney, Gladstone, Queen Bee, • felling of approximately 1 hectare of dead timber that was near Tharsus, Young Australia and Mount Pleasant mines. We recently the surface infrastructure. The trees had died from an infestation expanded our environmental team which will provide additional of tussock moth and the timber was donated to the Skeetchestn resources for the rehabilitation of these historic mines in 2011. Indian Band Reserve’s elderly, to heat their homes Our closure plan will be reviewed independently in 2011 to ensure Diligence in closure planning is important as the environmental that the rehabilitation provisions are sufficient. This will provide criteria must be agreed upon by traditional owners, regulators assurance that sufficient funds will be available for rehabilitation. and relevant interest groups. As negotiated in the First Nations Participation Agreement, plants of cultural significance will form part New Afton of the rehabilitation planning. As the land lies within an Agricultural As the holder of the mining lease, New Afton is obliged to reclaim Land Reserve it is likely to become grazing land, but this will be areas that were not rehabilitated completely following previous subject to consultation with First Nations and regulators. 36 NEW GOLD INC. | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 THERE’S MORE TO OUR FUTURE In this, our third annual sustainability report, New Gold is again demonstrating our commitment to open reporting on our HSES performance. At New Gold, we view transparency as the prerequisite for As in past years, we are dedicated to conforming with the most maintaining trust with our various stakeholders, stringent international standards for responsible corporate behaviour. We are guided by the Global Reporting Initiative G3 Guidelines. This and essential to our reputation as a good corporate year the evaluation process has been conducted by self-assessment. citizen. Our HSES performance targets for 2011 In the future, we will work to continually improve the scope, depth are based on stakeholder feedback with respect and transparency of our reporting, and to obtain external assurance to key issues and a continued attempt to improve of our performance. performance. These targets are communicated to The following tables below provide a clear, at-a-glance measure of all employees, in their new-employee training, or our performance in meeting our previously-stated objectives, and a in an annual refresher course. statement of our intentions for the future. The Cerro San Pedro mine is in the foothills of the Sierra Madre Oriental. We carefully monitor our success in transplantation and animal relocation, and strive to minimize our impacts on local flora and fauna. MEASURING OUR PROGRESS OUR PROGRESS TARGET CATEGORY 2010 ECONOMIC Build the company through responsible organic growth and valueCORPORATE enhancing external development. Demonstrate progress in implementing the HSES Policy adopted March 2009. STRATEGY POLICY METRICS Report on 20 or more GRI performance indicators. STANDARDS & GUIDELINES Continue our commitment to the principles of the UN Global Compact. Progressively adopt international guidelines such as the International Cyanide Management Code. HEALTH & SAFETY Strive for zero harm. OUR Implement health and safety management standards at all sites. PEOPLE EMPLOYMENT Continue to be a recognized employer of choice in all regions. TEAMWORK Continue our commitment to training and feedback to reinforce teamwork, safety and productivity. OUR ECONOMIC DIVERSIFICATION Expand upon Enterprise Facilitation and local entrepreneurship initiatives. ENGAGEMENT Continue to assess and improve programs of transparent and proactive COMMUNITIES communication with all stakeholders. COMPLAINTS Work with local communities to improve procedures for addressing local community concerns. OUR INCIDENTS Continue our environmental awareness and emergency response training. WATER Continue our commitment to water efficiency investigation and conservation practices. ENVIRONMENT ENERGY Continue our energy efficiency assessment and our implementation of conservation initiatives. GREENHOUSE GASES Encourage innovative carbon reduction strategies and research. WASTE MANAGEMENT Strive for 100% recycling for recyclable waste streams. RECLAMATION Continue progressive reclamation whenever disturbed land becomes available. * New Gold Inc. 2009 Sustainability Report Connected, Analysis & Recommendations; Canadian Business for Social Responsibility. 2011 NEW GOLD INC. | THERE’S MORE OUR OUR PERFORMANCE TARGET 2010 2011 At our three operating mines, gold production increased and costs were Continue to increase gold production and improve margins. Advance New reduced, which helps generate cash flow to fund future growth. Our two Afton towards production in mid-2012. Continue to evaluate and act upon development projects, New Afton and El Morro, saw significant progress. strategic acquisition opportunities. As documented, all sites performed to meet the policy principles Continue to demonstrate the application of HSES policy principles. concerning workplace health and safety, environmental responsibility and community sustainability. Partially achieved. An independent review determined that 19 GRI Report on 20 or more GRI performance indicators. Performance Indicators were fully met.* Achieved. Continue our commitment to the principles of the UN Global Compact. The UN Global Compact principles were adopted and the Communication Progressively certify operations under the International Cyanide on Progress submitted. Management Code. Became signatory to the International Cyanide Management Code. Zero harm not achieved. Strive for zero harm. Health and safety management review completed at all sites. Third-party safety assessment will identify improvement opportunities. Increased the number of workforce employees and contractors as New Attract the best, the brightest, and the most qualified candidates… Afton development progressed. as always. Overall turnover declined. New and improved training programs promoted a culture of safety Continue to reinforce the value of teamwork and personal responsibility through team-oriented and individual behaviour. for safety and productivity. Partially achieved. Broaden economic diversification opportunity through local purchases, Enterprise Facilitation at Cobar NSW achieved 18 new business starts educational programs and enterprise initiatives. (to year-end 2010). Site sustainability reports were prepared and distributed by Cerro San Prepare and make available sustainability reports from all sites to their Pedro, Mesquite and Peak mines. Ongoing community involvement was local stakeholders. Further promote interactive engagement with all encouraged through meetings, volunteer participation and mine visits. stakeholders. Formalized feedback is in place at Peak, New Afton and now at Cerro San Solicit local community feedback to further improve the effectiveness of Pedro. At Mesquite proactive community engagement is ongoing. procedures to receive and address their concerns and suggestions. “All-incidents” reporting is in place, to facilitate root-cause analysis and Continue to reinforce all-incidents reporting and root-cause analysis, to performance improvement. (see Table, p.23) improve environmental awareness and emergency response. Improved water control and use of dust suppressants. Cerro San Pedro Continue to seek water conservation opportunities through improvements domestic water treatment plant was commissioned. (p.23) in technology and operating practices. Energy audit results are being addressed at Cerro San Pedro and Peak. Additional energy efficiency assessment and implementation of practical New Afton identified energy design improvements. (p.26) conservation initiatives. As this was the first full-year accounting that included the Mesquite mine, Continue assessment with some GHG reduction expected from energy total greenhouse gas emissions increased. An energy audit identified conservation initiatives. carbon-reduction opportunities. (p.26) Significant recycling and waste reduction improvement achieved. (p.28) Continue to identify opportunities to reduce, reuse and recycle nonprocess waste streams. In progress. 45 hectares were reclaimed. (p.34) Continue progressive reclamation whenever disturbed land becomes available. NEW GOLD INC. NEW GOLD INC. INVESTOR RELATIONS Corporate Office Royal Bank Plaza, South Tower TF +1 888 315 9715 666 Burrard St., Suite 3110 200 Bay Street, Suite 3120 F +1 604 696 4110 Vancouver, British Columbia V6C 2X8 Toronto, Ontario M5J 2J4 E info@newgold.com T +1 604 696 4100 T +1 416 324 6000 F +1 604 696 4110 F +1 416 324 9494 www.newgold.com TSX/NYSE AMEX: NGD New Gold Inc. is an intermediate gold producer with a complementary portfolio of global assets in the United States, Mexico, Australia, Canada and Chile. New Gold focuses on the following objectives to achieve its growth strategy: • delivering on operational targets (safety, cost, production, environment, and social responsibility) • maintaining a strong financial position • internal growth through project development and continuous improvement of our existing operations • external growth through additional value enhancing merger and acquisition opportunities New Gold is working towards maximizing shareholder value through diversified production, maintaining a reduced risk profile and enhancing growth potential. The board of directors, management and the employees of New Gold Inc. are committed to achieving this in a socially responsible and sustainable manner. 100%
