CSR REPORT MHI Social and Detailed Environmental Report Version Creed 1. We strongly believe that the customer comes first and that we are obligated to be an innovative partner to society. 2. We base our activities on honesty, harmony, and a clear distinction between public and private life. 3. We shall strive for innovative management and technological development from an international perspective. Reason for Instituting the Creed (Issued June 1, 1970) In Japan there are many enterprises with their own “creeds” company, the mental attitude of employees, and the future which simply represent their management concept. directions of the company. Mitsubishi Heavy Industries, Ltd. has a creed of this The reason for instituting the present creed is so that all type, also. It was instituted in 1970 on the basis of the policy of us can call to mind our one hundred years of tradition and advocated by Koyata Iwasaki, president of Mitsubishi Goshi strive for further development in the future. Kaisha in the 1920s, to indicate the essential attitude of the Editorial Policy Since 2001, Mitsubishi Heavy Industries, Ltd. (MHI) has Scope of this Report been publishing its Environmental Report and in 2007, Target organization: this report was expanded and revised, and entitled “CSR The information contained in this report pertains to Mitsubishi Report.” In 2011, in addition to the exhaustive disclosure Heavy Industries, Ltd. and its Group companies (120 in Japan of information on our website, we posted a CSR Report diand 114 overseas). Some articles, however, only include degest version (brochure) to succinctly convey the activities scriptions of MHI activities. of MHI, as we have done in previous years. Both the webTarget period: site and the brochure included a dialogue between the From April 1, 2010 to March 31, 2011 President and an intellectual, a summary of MHI’s efforts (includes information on some activities after March 31, 2011) according to the three themes of its CSR Action Guidelines, opinions from stakeholders and employees tasked with Guidelines and other reference material supporting CSR activities as well as relief efforts by the MHI • Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Group in response to the Great East Japan Earthquake “Sustainability Reporting Guidelines (G3 version)” of March 2011. Our website contains detailed information • Japanese Ministry of the Environment “Environmental Reporting focusing on “Fair and Sound Management,” “Report on Guidelines (2007 edition)” Environmental Initiatives” and “Report on Social Actions,” • ISO 26000 which is not found in the brochure. We will continue to imNote: A “Guideline Comparison List” will be posted on our website. prove this report in response to your feedback. Date of Issuance Structure of CSR information disclosure June 2011 (previous issue: June 2010) MHI FY2011 CSR Activities Report Detailed version (website) Digest (brochure) Disclaimer In addition to objective information on the past and present status of Mitsubishi Heavy Industries, Ltd. and its Group companies, this report also contains plans, perspectives and forecasts based on business plans and URL other materials. These forecasts are made using information available at http://www.mhi.co.jp/en/csr the time of publication and therefore the actual outcome of future business activities may differ from these forecasts. 1 Detailed Version MHI Social and Environmental Report Corporate Social Responsibility Report C O N T E N T S Creed, Editorial Policy 1 Dialogue 3 Providing vital social infrastructure and addressing a myriad of global issues Ms. Mari Watanabe x President Hideaki Omiya The MHI Group’s response in the wake of the Great East Japan Earthquake 7 Dialogue: In this section, Ms. Mari Watanabe, a freelance Overview of the MHI Group 8 announcer, and President Omiya discuss corporate social CSR of the MHI Group 13 responsibility (CSR) for MHI. Special Feature Close ties with the Earth 18 Using “eco-ships” to substantially reduce CO2 emissions from maritime transport Close ties with Society 22 Contributing to local communities in Thailand as Special Feature on Close ties with the Earth: This feaa good corporate citizen ture introduces our initiatives involving “eco-ships,” which we have developed to help reduce CO2 emissions from maritime transport. A bridge to the next Generation 26 Conveying the enjoyment of manufacturing through science classes applying our products and technologies Fair and Sound Management Corporate Governance 31 Promotion of CSR 36 Compliance 42 Report on Environmental Initiatives Environmental Management 52 Targets and Progress 60 Special Feature on Close ties with Society: This secMaterial Balance tion introduces our Thai subsidiary’s efforts to contribute to 65 Environmental Accounting 66 local communities by supporting local elementary schools. Countermeasures against Global Warming 68 Resource Conservation and Waste Management 74 Management of Chemical Substances 78 Products and Technologies that Reduce Environmental Impact 81 Report on Social Actions Commitment to Our Customers 85 Commitment to Our Shareholders and Investors 93 Commitment to Our Business Partners (Suppliers) 96 Commitment to Our Employees 101 Contributions to Society 113 CSR Action Plan 125 Special Feature on A bridge to the next Generation: Recognition from Society Here, we introduce how our works leverage their unique 136 Progress Toward a Sustainable Society 139 characteristics to support science education. Main Third-Party Opinions on Past CSR Reports and Our Responses 144 Third-Party Opinions, Acting on Third-Party Opinions 146 GRI Guideline Comparison List 148 2 Dialogue Providing vital social infrastructure and addressing a myriad of global issues At a time when the importance of social infrastructure is garnering attention in Japan perhaps as never before, here we explore MHI’s corporate social responsibility (CSR) and how the company is working to meet its obligations. Ms. Mari Watanabe, a freelance announcer who has a special interest in social responsibility with a woman’s perspective, discusses CSR with MHI’s President Hideaki Omiya. Hideaki Omiya Mari Watanabe President, Mitsubishi Heavy Industries, Ltd. Freelance Announcer After joining the company in 1969, Hideaki Omiya was long involved in aircraft deBorn June 27, 1967, Mari Watanabe hails from Yokohama, velopment, and in 1999, he was appointed Deputy General Manager of the Nagoya Kanagawa Prefecture, and is a graduate of International Aerospace Systems Works. He subsequently served as Director, Executive Vice Christian University’s College of Liberal Arts. Ms. Watanabe President and General Manager of the Air-Conditioning & Refrigeration Systems joined TBS in 1990, and left the broadcaster in March 1998. Headquarters, and in April 2007, he was appointed Director and Senior Executive She then began appearing as a newscaster on TV Asahi’s Vice President in charge of Production System Innovation Planning. He became nightly news program “News Station” in May 1998. Her acPresident in April 2008, making this his fourth year in the position. tivities currently center on television, radio and other media. 3 Putting every effort into restoring ployees collected contributions toward the relief efforts. Going the region affected by the Great forward, the MHI Group will continue making every effort to rebuild the infrastructure that was destroyed and restore East Japan Earthquake as quickly as the affected area to normalcy as quickly as possible. possible Contributing to the development of Watanabe: The Great East Japan Earthquake of March a sustainable global society, placing 11 (2011) was a massive disaster centered on the Tohoku region, and companies in the private sector suffered a wide CSR at the core of company priorities range of damage and other negative effects. How did MHI fare? Watanabe: Mr. Omiya, you mentioned that you recognize Omiya: Before I address this issue, I would like to offer my the magnitude of MHI’s corporate social responsibility (CSR) prayers for the souls of the people who perished in this enorin its role as a company involved with infrastructure. I’d like mous disaster and also extend my sincere condolences to to ask you, if you would, to speak a bit more about your the people who have suffered as a result of the disaster. company’s thoughts on CSR. As most of the MHI Group’s plants are located in westOmiya: First of all, the MHI Group’s foremost corporate ern Japan, our employees and factories were largely unsocial responsibility, I believe, is to provide products worldharmed. wide that will contribute to the development of a sustainable Watanabe: The damage from the disaster has been truly global society. The heart-wrenching. My deepest sympathies are with the many MHI Group supports people who have been so deeply affected by the disaster. society by providing Never before had I so intensely realized just how vitally immany different types portant our social infrastructure—electricity, water and so of infrastructure: not on—is to us. only power plants, Omiya: It’s true that companies like ours that create the but also railway sysinfrastructure that supports people’s lives bear huge retems, aircraft, ships, sponsibility. The disaster has truly brought this home to bridges and so on. me, as well. Accordingly, I believe At MHI, we’re now putting all our efforts into restoring that our most impordamaged infrastructure that incorporates our products. tant corporate social For example, some 10,000 of our employees have been responsibility is to carry out our business operations and the dispatched to thermal power generation plants operated manufacturing of our products with dedicated integrity. by Tokyo Electric Power and Tohoku Electric Power, and Another important corporate social responsibility for others are working to restore waste incineration facilities in us is to appropriately distribute the profits we earn from the city of Sendai. We are also responding to a request by providing products to all our stakeholders—including Tokyo Electric Power to provide gas turbines for thermal shareholders, business partners (suppliers), local compower generation plants and, although the reactors used munities and employees. at the Fukushima No.1 nuclear power plant are of a differWatanabe: MHI, as a company undertaking the construcent type than our own products, we are giving our support tion of social infrastructure, is also called upon, not only to to help bring the situation there to a swift conclusion, for generate profits in the short term, but also to create value example by providing maximum cooperation to prevent from the long-term perspective, isn’t it? radioactive materials from spreading. Omiya: Yes. Naturally, we strive to return profits to our In addition to providing support through our business acshareholders and other stakeholders as much and as tivities, promptly afquickly as possible. But as you say, developing social infrater the earthquake structure is a long-term proposition. we dispatched a Consider passenger aircraft, for example. Developing company jet to asthis sort of transportation infrastructure, on which many sist in transporting people’s lives depend, calls for safety above all else. medical supplies to Ensuring this safety requires a great deal of time and the people of the money, and in this respect it’s inconsistent with seeking stricken region. The short-term profits. MHI Group also doFor the past several years, we’ve been developing a nated 500 million small, environmentally friendly passenger jet, the MRJ. yen and our emNot too long ago we received a letter from a sharehold4 Dialogue er—actually a husband and wife. The letter read: “When my ample, individual countries have different requirements on wife and I learned that MHI is developing the MRJ, the kind things like the materials and colors of the internal furnishings of product dreams are made of, we decided to become of rooms, making detailed changes necessary. We have to shareholders, even though 1,000 shares, the minimum take a pragmatic approach to analyzing and understanding trading unit, was all we could afford. Please keep working our customers’ needs. to make this a better world.” Reading that letter truly gave In this way, we not only have to take into consideration me courage, because I could sense that the couple shared the social climate and culture of each different region, but our focus on long-term value creation. also their business practices and views on human rights Watanabe: I too am looking forward to seeing the MRJ flyand labor; additionally, we must also always keep to global ing through the skies all around the world. But if your busistandards. As a participant in the United Nations Global ness goes global in that sense, won’t your concept of CSR Compact, we work to adhere to the 10 principles set forth have to change, too? in the four categories of human rights, labor, the environOmiya: Absolutely. Today, the growth of the global ment and anti-corruption. economy is being driven less by the industrially advanced countries and more and more by the emerging economies such as China and India. Many of those countries face a Sensing progress from CSR variety of difficulties in areas such as securing energy and promotion activities water, and demand is rising for social infrastructure to resolve these problems. Watanabe: Please tell me about the progress and major By way of response, in order to apply our “true comachievements of the Company’s CSR activities during your prehensive strengths” toward resolving these worldwide three years as president. issues, in April 2010 we drew up a five-year mediumOmiya: First, with regard to the environment, in line with the term business plan, and we are now implementing organiKyoto Protocol we’ve set a target of cutting CO2 emissions zational reforms to put that plan into practice. In 2008, we by an average of 6%, compared with the fiscal 1990 level, set up the Sustainability Energy & Environment Strategic during the five years from fiscal 2008 through fiscal 2012; Planning Department to create proposals that combine and to achieve this target we’ve upgraded production and products previously supplied separately by various departair-conditioning equipment at all our factories and offices, ments related to energy and the environment, and this apand installed photovoltaic power generation systems. In fisproach has already chalked up successes in many parts cal 2010 we brought CO2 emissions down to 440,000 tons, of the world. Then just this April, we consolidated the auour target level, and as far as possible we plan to maintain thority and responsibility for product operations at our these conditions going forward as we work to meet our 6% business headquarters (Head Office) that previously had reduction target. Also, the products we’ve supplied have been divided between the business headquarters and cut CO2 emissions by more than 100 million tons each year the various works (plants). At the same time, we stream(see p. 00 for basis of calculation). This constitutes a major lined the functions and organization of our administrative contribution to preventing global warming. departments and In addition, we are in the process of preparing an created a large “MHI Environmental Vision” to clarify our mediumto common platform long-term targets. We look for this vision to serve as for forming comour compass in contributing toward the realization of a panywide stratesustainable society on various fronts—reducing CO 2 in gies, supporting production processes, lowering CO 2 emissions through improvement acour products, conserving resources and reducing gentivities across the eration of waste, and so on. various business Watanabe: Ensuring “safety and security” is cited as one segments, and facet of MHI’s medium-term CSR plan. I understand you’ve promoting more made some advances in employee safety training? advanced business processes. Omiya: That’s correct. In April 2010, we set up an “Accident Watanabe: In other words, you strengthened the collaboExhibit and Materials Room” at our Technical Training Center ration among business headquarters to better meet needs in Nagoya. The purpose of this installation is to convey inforfrom around the world. mation about past product-related accidents to employees Omiya: Yes. Even so, developing business overseas presusing videos and panel displays. Some 7,000 employees ents difficulties on a number of fronts, so we need to apply have visited the facility since it opened, and it has made an the knowhow we’ve cultivated over the years and respond impression on them. Many comments have been received in line with local needs. When building a power plant, for exalong the lines of “The graphic depiction of the misery that 5 an accident can cause chilled me to the bone,” or “Such acit helps people who cidents must never happen again.” We believe that the starthave diverse working point in addressing the issue of safety is for all employees ing styles to accept who are involved in manufacturing to share in the undereach other. standing of the importance of safety. In this sense, I consider We’ve also set the effort has been an extremely significant success. up a system for rehirWatanabe: In recent years, much emphasis has also been ing employees who placed on the importance of CSR in the supply chain. retired at the mandaOmiya: Yes, this is important. In 2009, we started addresstory age but who still ing this issue through discussions with employees in the have a lot of vitality. MHI Kira Kids Nursery Procurement & Sourcing Department of each of our works. Under this system, The outcome was our announcement in July 2010 of the contracts can be extended up to age 65. Today employees “MHI Group Supply Chain CSR Promotion Guidelines” rehired under the program are enthusiastically offering guidance to promote environmental protection, respect for human to younger workers and passing on their technical expertise rights and occupational safety among our business partto the next generation. We also ask people in this program ners (suppliers). Moving forward, we will continue working to create manuals to help pass on the skills and know-how together with our partners to fulfill our corporate social rethey have built up through their long years on the job. sponsibilities. Watanabe: All the things I have heard here today have convinced me that MHI is a company that accepts diverse working styles. I also get a strong impression that MHI is a Creating a rewarding and invigorating company where work is very rewarding. work environment Omiya: Thank you very much. As I commented at the beginning of our discussion, MHI is in the business of building Watanabe: I understand that recently MHI set up an insocial infrastructure, and conducting our business properly house nursery. This must be greatly appreciated by your has direct implications for contributing to society. From employees with children. this perspective, I believe that MHI is a rewarding place for Omiya: We opened the MHI Kira Kids Nursery at the employees. Of course, building infrastructure is a business Nagasaki Shipyard & Machinery Works in April 2010. One that comes with major social responsibility. This is the very of the big social problems Japan faces is the decrease in reason why we strive to create an environment where emthe nation’s working population owing to the falling birthployees can work enthusiastically and make the most of rate and its aging citizenry, and we believe that to solve their ambitions and their skills, so that MHI can contribute this problem it’s necessary to create a work environment even more to society and be even more steadfast in fulfilling that helps employees to raise children. Having an in-house its corporate social responsibility. As a company that supnursery makes it easier for employees to drop off their chilports efforts to put Japan back on a quick recovery track, dren in the morning and pick them up in the evening, and we know we bear a heavy burden of responsibility, and we it also gives them peace of mind knowing that their children aim to continue responding to the hopes and expectations are always nearby. We’ve even set up a system so that emof society. Be sure to keep watching as the MHI Group adployees can check up on their kids from their PC monitors. dresses these challenges. As another initiative, we have set up the Career Return Plan enabling employees who have left their jobs to get married or have a child to return to the workplace. So far, 24 people have taken advantage of this system to return to the workplace. Watanabe: That initiative really addresses the work-life balance. Omiya: Another is a project we introduced in 2009 called “Forum 35.” This is a program targeted at employees in their mid-thirties—the “second-generation baby boomers” who play central roles at all workplaces. Meetings are convened regularly where they can have discussions with their counterparts in other departments. Their discussions are always lively, touching on topics such as interaction between individuals and organizations, families and society at large. I think the program has had a positive impact also in the way At “M’s Square” showroom, which reopened in November 2010 following renovation 6 The MHI Group’s response in the wake of the Great East Japan Earthquake Note: The following is a report on the status of our efforts as of May 31, 2011. For the latest information, please refer to Response of MHI and its Group companies to the Great East Japan Earthquake on the MHI website. The MHI Group not only transported emergency relief goods and emergency measures to recover power generation capacity. It is the materials by corporate aircraft to affected areas immediately after the solemn mission of the MHI Group to help Japan rapidly recover its March 11, 2011 disaster, but also carried out repairs and inspections economic base by providing the infrastructure upon which society and to the products our Group companies delivered there previously. The industry is built. We will continue to exert our full strengths to that end. Group companies have done their utmost to carry out these and other In respect to nuclear power plants, we began collaborative tasks with activities as emergency countermeasures in the wake of the disaster clients immediately after the disaster to further strengthen the safety and subsequent recovery support. In particular, MHI worked to relevels of existing facilities. We believe that nuclear power will continue store damaged thermal power generation in conjunction with the conto play an essential role well into the future given society’s power restruction of gas-turbine power generation equipment and increased quirements and the need to curb global warming. We will make a conproduction of small to midsize diesel power generating equipment as certed effort to provide products high in safety and reliability. Status of MHI Group companies and main responses to the earthquake disaster Status of MHI production bases, etc. •No major production bases in the MHI Group sustained significant damage as a direct consequence of the disaster, and all facilities are currently operating normally. Although some difficulty is being experienced in securing necessary parts and other supplies, we are checking suppliers’ situation and making every effort to obtain the needed items. Medical supplies sent by company aircraft Recovery support at disaster areas Donations and fund raising “Support Tohoku” project at company dining rooms •MHI Group to provide relief assistance equivalent to approx. 500 million •“Support Tohoku” menus have been prepared at the dining halls of yen. Total includes monetary aid and emergency supplies. (For daily the Head Office and employee dormitories featuring foods from the needs, etc.) disaster areas, now victim to fear mongering. •In addition to employee fund-raising campaigns that collected approx. Gradually, this project will be expanded to the dining halls of all 45 million yen, company plans to provide a matching amount, which our works. makes total value equivalent to 100 million yen. Dispatch of employee volunteers •Group companies provided approx. 28 million yen worth of photovoltaic •Approx. 100 employees from our Tokyo area works were dispatched power generation systems and other related materials. as volunteers to disaster areas. Medical treatment support •Employee volunteers were also dispatched from other regions as •Approx. 500 kg of medical supplies were transported to Fukushima by needed. company aircraft. •Dispatch of doctors and nurses from company medical facilities, at request of Japan Medical Association et al. Providing shelter for disaster victims •Registration at municipalities of company facilities available to accepting victims. Company housing: 179 households Dormitories: 328 persons (5 locations) Preparing meals Unloading relief materials Recreational facilities: 285 persons (2 locations) Infrastructure recovery support Thermal power generation plants recovery support •Examination of different measures including treating contaminated •Transport of personnel and materials by company helicopters immewater, shielding against radiation, prevention of spread of radioactive diately after the disaster. materials, etc. in response to requests from TEPCO. •Dispatch equivalent to approx. 10,000 man-days to thermal power Other support activities generation plants operated by TEPCO and Tohoku Electric, now •Support being provided toward early restart of waste treatment supporting efforts to recover power supply capacities. facilities in the disaster-affected municipalities; also responding to •Efforts at production sites being strengthened for the early delivery inquiries from affected municipalities and regional organizations of power generating equipment. regarding simple incinerators. Recovery support at the Fukushima No. 1 Nuclear •Response under way toward restoring social infrastructure, such as Power Plant bridges, mechanical parking facilities, electronic toll collection systems, Even though the reactors used at the Plant are different from the presin the disaster-affected area. surized water reactors (PWRs) handled by MHI, we are provided pro•Supporting affected customers posals and cooperation useful to recovery efforts based on common to restore machine tools (600 nuclear power technology. personnel) and air-conditioning •Reconstruction of the “Mega-Float” provided to TEPCO from (400 personnel); product supShizuoka City for countermeasures against low-level radiation conport system has been estabtaminated water stored at the Plant. lished. •Construction of two special vehicles based on our 15-ton forklift to handle rubble near the nuclear power plant. Forklift with radiation shielded cabin 7 Overview of the MHI Group Company Profile Trade Name: Mitsubishi Heavy Industries, Ltd. Head Office: 2-16-5 Konan, Minato-ku, Tokyo President: Hideaki Omiya Foundation: July 7, 1884 Establishment: January 11, 1950 Capital: 265.6 billion yen (as of March 31, 2011) Employees: 68,816 consolidated, 33,031 non-consolidated (as of March 31, 2011) CI Statement Our Technologies, Your Tomorrow This CI statement represents our intention to continuously provide an assured future where people can live safe, secure and enriched lives through technologies that can excite people and passion as a manufacturer for the sustainability of the earth and humankind. CI (Note1) statement logo (Note1) CI: Corporate Identity Orders Received (Consolidated) 8 Net sales (consolidated) Operating income (consolidated) Net Income (Consolidated) Research and development expenditures (consolidated) 9 Net sales by Industry Segment (Consolidated) Net sales by region (consolidated) Operating Bases and Employees by Region Total number of employees: 68,816 (consolidated)(as of March 31, 2011) 10 Businesses and Products Shipbuilding & Ocean Development Shipbuilding Marine development Cruise ships Deep submergence research vehicles Ferries Oceanographic research ships LNG carriers LPG carriers Tankers Container carriers RO/RO ships Car carriers Destroyer Submarine Patrol vessels Power Systems Thermal power generation plants and other Renewable energy generation, etc. facilities Wind turbine plants Combined cycle power plants Geothermal power plants Steam turbines Water turbine plants Gas turbines Photovoltaic systems Boilers Lithium-ion rechargeable batteries Diesel engines Nuclear power plants and other facilities PWR nuclear power plants Advanced reactor plants Nuclear fuel cycle plants Machinery & Steel Structures Environmental and chemical plants Environment preservation Flue gas desulfurization systems Wastes treatment plants Flue gas CO2 recovery plants Electrostatic precipitators Fertilizer plants Biomass utilization systems Methanol plants Petrochemical plants Oil & gas production plants Transportation systems and ITS State-of-the-art machines Automated people mover Medical systems / Radiotherapy systems Rail transit Power train equipment Air brake equipment Mechatronics system equipment Toll collection systems (ETC, etc.) Particle accelerator Intelligent transport systems (ITS) Robots Machineries Basic facilities & steel structures for Iron & steel manufacturing machinery infrastructures Compressors & mechanical turbines Steel bridges & chimneys Rubber & tire machinery Hydraulic gate Crane & material handling equipment Mechanical parking systems Manufacturing equipment for semiconductor Tunnel boring machine & flat panel display Earthquake isolation / Vibration control Organic EL panels for lighting systems 11 Industrial equipment Printing machinery Paper converting machinery Plastic injection molding machine Food and packaging machinery Aerospace Systems Space equipment Aircraft H-IIA launch vehicle Fixed-wing aircraft H-IIB launch vehicle Helicopters Space transporter Subsystems of commercial aircraft Rocket engines Aeroengines General Machinery & Special Vehicle Engine and power-train Turbochargers Engines Turbochargers Engine generators Power-train systems Material handling equipment Special vehicles Forklift trucks Tanks Automated guided vehicles Armored personnel carriers Heavy cargo carriers Transport and ground leveling machines Others Air-conditioners Industrial machinery Air-conditioners for commercial Machine tools Air-conditioners for residential Automotive thermal systems Refrigeration applied products Transport refrigeration units Centrifugal chillers Water heat pumps 12 CSR of the MHI Group/ CSR concepts and actions CSR concepts and actions MHI Group CSR Action Guidelines (formulated July 2007) Promoting CSR through manufacturing as an innovative partner to society The MHI Group established manufacturing as the core of its business as an innovative partner to society (see our creed on p.1) that provides products that improve social infrastructure and assist customers in reducing their environmental impact. In our CSR initiatives, our primary aim is to minimize environmental loads emanating from our production activities and to allocate our earnings generated through the appropriate provision of these products to every stakeholder associated with our business activities. 13 Continuous improvement of CSR activities through the PDCA cycle To fulfill its social responsibilities, MHI established the CSR Committee, chaired by the President, as well as a CSR Promotion Office, in October 2006. In April 2011, the CSR Promotion Office was renamed CSR Promotion Department thus newly establishing a Strategy Group and Promotion Group that would strategically and comprehensively conduct activities in the areas of prior compliance, environmental protection, human rights and labor relations. Along with this new CSR promotion framework, in July 2007, MHI formulated the CSR Action Guidelines with three basic vectors: Close ties with the Earth, Close ties with Society, and A Bridge to the next Generation to encourage proactive action that would instill CSR awareness in every employee. In April 2008, our CSR Action Plan was formulated in accordance with those Guidelines in hopes of continuously improving each one of our activities through the use of the PDCA cycle. Then in June 2008, we established the representative CSR activities based on the themes in the guidelines for cultivating stronger CSR awareness group-wide. CSR Committee 14 Representative CSR Activities Outline of Representative CSR Activities For Close ties with the Earth z Greening of company facilities (e.g., wall greening, symbolic greening of the factory) z All-hands environmental activities with employees (Company Forest Creation Program volunteer activity, proposals for eco-commuting and ecodriving, preservation of biodiversity, etc.) For Close ties with Society z Reinforcing community contribution activities (at least one event per year by each Group company at home and overseas) z Participation in Hometown Cleanup Meetings z Providing support for emerging and developing countries with MHI products z Environmental advertising for communities planned by employees For A bridge to the next Generation z Employee dispatches to schools (Visiting Science Class at community elementary schools, etc.) z Product making workshops (Expansion of product making workshops and exhibit facilities at all MHI locations) 15 Examples of Representative CSR Activities Eco-Drive Training Sessions held as part of MHI's environmental activities In tandem with Japan's Eco-Drive Promotion Month, MHI conducted Eco-Drive Training Sessions from November 2010 at nine locations including the Takasago Machinery Works, Industrial Machinery Business, Technology & Solutions Division (the current Hiroshima Machinery Works). Instructors were invited from the Energy Conservation Center, Japan and employees learned how to reduce fuel consumption by eco-driving as well as some other driving techniques. At some locations, employees even got the chance to test these skills on the road. In fiscal 2010, 887 employees participated voluntarily. We plan to continue these training sessions because eco-driving is not only an effective means to cut CO2 emissions from employees private vehicles but also increases their awareness towards the environment and promote safe driving. In addition, employees at the Nagasaki Shipyard and Machinery Works, Kobe Shipyard & Machinery Works, and Yokohama Dockyard & Machinery Works held a No Car Day voluntarily prohibiting commuting by automobile for a day. In fiscal 2010, a total of 16,714 employees at those three locations voluntarily left their cars home and took public transportation and other means and eco-commuted to work for a day. Eco-Drive class Eco-Driving practice Hometown Cleanup Meetings held at 121 locations nation-wide in the vicinity of factories Hometown Cleanup Meetings have been conducted since fiscal 2008 to clean up parks and other public areas around MHI factories nationally with the participation of Group company employees. This activity was started as part of the NPO FUJISAN CLUB country-wide cleanup activities. Fiscal 2010 was its third year and 6,598 employees from 52 Group companies participated at 121 locations in October, which is an increase of 225 employees over the previous year. This activity is an easy way for any employee to contribute to the local community and the number of participants is increasing every year. The meetings are also popular with employees because they can be organized as fun events for the whole family on weekends and holidays at parks. Cleanup activities enhance the community's trust in MHI as well as employee's awareness of environmental conservation. Therefore, we will come up with ways that will enable a great many employees to participate and continue this activity in the future at all Group companies. Cleanup activities at the Air-Conditioning & Group commemorative photo after a cleanup in Refrigeration Systems Headquarters (Nagoya The Arakawa River Air-Conditioning & Refrigeration Machinery Works) 16 Promoting communication with the community through advertisements planned by young employees To promote local community understanding of MHI's product lines and businesses as well as our environmental efforts, young employees at every site plan PR advertisements for MHI's environmental technologies and products. Fiscal 2008 was the first year this program was implemented and advertising campaigns were produced at Nagasaki, Shimonoseki, Hiroshima and Mihara. The advertisement received three awards including the Japan Newspaper Publishers and Editors Association's Newspaper Advertising Runners-up Prize in the Advertisers’ Planning Category. In fiscal 2009, a team in Nagoya won the Readers' Chunichi Shimbun Newspaper Advertisement Prize for Excellence (Residential and Financial Section). In fiscal 2010, the third year of this activity, a working group of young employees in Kansai (Machine Tool Division (now Ritto Machinery Works), Kobe Shipyard & Machinery Works, Takasago Machinery Works) created newspaper ads and train ads with the message Earth Friendly Technologies born in Kansai. They were awarded the Kobe Shimbun Newspaper Advertising Prize for Cross Communication. One participant said of the experience, I was able to see the significance of our work from a totally different perspective. Employee advertisement planning session Ad placed in trains on JR West lines 17 The car carrier AURIGA LEADER1 Close ties with the Earth Safeguard an abundantly green Earth through environmental technologies and environmental awareness Special Feature Using “eco-ships” to substantially reduce CO2 1 emissions from maritime transport CO2 emissions increasing along with MALS-14000CS eco-ship reducing CO2 expanding maritime transport emissions during transport by 35% Ships have long been praised as a mode of transport that MHI completed the conceptual design of its New Panamax class2 offers high energy efficiency and low CO2 emissions. But as container ship, the MALS-14000CS, in October 2010. This ecomaritime traffic has increased over the past 30 years, CO2 emisship achieves a 35% decrease in CO2 emissions per container. sions have doubled. To address this situation, the International 2 New Panamax class: This is the maximum size of ship (366.0 meters long by 48.8 meters wide with a draft of 15.2 meters) designed to fit through the expanded Panama Canal, Maritime Organization (IMO) is promoting a new treaty aimed where enlargement is scheduled to be completed in 2014. at curtailing CO2 emissions, and this has spurred calls for the development of ships that emit less CO2. In response MHI is bringing to bear its experience and technologies cultivated over more than a century of shipbuilding to develop “eco-ships” that will reduce environmental impact in various ways. World maritime transport volume and CO2 emissions 1 Air lubrication system High-performance hull design Transport volume CO2 emissions 2 + optimal arrangement (Millions of tons) (Millions of tons of CO2) 3 Propulsion plant 9,000 600 Percentage reduction in CO2 emissions by the MALS-14000CS eco-ship 6,000 400 1 Air lubrication system 10% 3,000 200 2 High-performance + optimal arrangement hull design 24% 100 90 3 Propulsion plant 5% 0 0 68 1990 1995 2000 2005 2006 2007 2008 65 Percentage CO2 reduction Sources: CO2 Emissions from Fuel Combustion Highlights (2010 Edition), International Energy Agency; Autumn 2010 Shipping Review Database, Clarkson Research Services 35% •This graph compares CO2 emissions per 20-foot container transported. •In this graph, 100% is the standard value for ships in the same class by MHI’s calculation. 1 Several of the environmental technologies employed on the AURIGA LEADER were developed in collaboration with Nippon Yusen Kabushiki Kaisha. 18 Latest energy-saving technology and an containers to be loaded above the engine room. innovative ideas The second idea was to move the bridge to the bow of the ship. On conventional container ships, the number of loadable Cutting CO2 emissions 10% by reducing water friction containers is limited to the height that will allow a clear view Reducing the frictional drag on the hull of a ship saves fuel from the bridge, but with our new design the bridge location and lowers CO2 emissions. To achieve this, MHI developed has allowed the entire deck space to be used more efficiently, the Mitsubishi Air Lubrication System (MALS), which reduces increasing the number of containers that could be loaded onto frictional drag by introducing air bubbles by air blower into the the ship. The new design also allows for storage of containers water around the bottom of a ship’s hull, covering the ship beneath the ship’s living quarters. in bubbles. By arranging the air blowhole location and shape As a result of these changes, we succeeded in reducing CO2 and controlling the air volume, the lubrication effect has been emissions per container transported by 24%. enhanced, reducing CO2 emissions per container transportation by 10%. This system has already been introduced on module carriers, and has been proven to reduce CO2 emissions significantly. Containers stored below living quarters CO2 reduced by 5% through use of waste heat The propulsion plant used by the MALS-14000CS contains electronically controlled engines and a waste heat recovery system. Compared with conventional mechanically controlled engines, these engines offer improved fuel efficiency by controlling the fuel injection amount and timing electronically. The Creating a layer of air between the hull of the ship and the surrounding water reduces waste heat recovery system, which was developed through frictional drag on the hull. cooperation between the Shipbuilding & Ocean Development Headquarters and the Power Systems Headquarters, recovers waste heat generated by the engine and uses it effectively Preventing loss of propulsive power and raising load to generate electricity. efficiency have cut CO2 emissions by 24% These improvements together enable a reduction in CO2 The ship’s hull form must be optimally designed for the vessel’s emissions per container transported by 5%. intended position in water, which is determined according to the ship’s speed, length and width and the weight of its cargo. For the MALS-14000CS, MHI ran numerous simulations and offers outstanding performance by the optimal hull form. Our responsibilities and our actions We also adopted a new type of propulsion plant with twin Our aim is to contribute to our customers and engines and shafts. This twin-engine/shaft design uses twin society by applying our comprehensive strengths propulsion units to drive two screws. Compared with a contoward the ongoing development of eco-ships. ventional plant that uses single engine and single shaft, the twin setup offers improved propeller efficiency while maintainAs the engineer in charge of this project, I focused on ing the same resistance level, thereby delivering more propulimproving the fuel performance of the propulsion plant sive power. and raising container carrying capacity. These efforts We also introduced two ideas to raise load efficiency and succeeded in reducing CO2 emissions, but our work thereby increase the number of containers the ship could carry. isn’t finished here. I still hope to enhance environmenThe first idea was to lead the exhaust pipes to the stern of the tal performance further from a variety of perspectives, ship, eliminating the space conventionally occupied by the exsuch as also reducing SOx and NOx emissions. haust pipes and their casing. The new configuration enables Going forward, we will exploit the comprehensive strengths of MHI, which has various kinds of specialized technologies involving engines, waste heat recovery and electrical systems, to promote the ongoing development of eco-ships. Takashi Unseki Ship & Ocean Engineering Division Exhaust pile leading to the stern Shipbuilding & Ocean Development 19 Employing a variety of technologies to each one is shaped differently. Building ships of this class rereduce ships’ environmental impact quires technologies to process steel plates 6 centimeters or more in thickness to a high degree of precision, and Lowering wind resistance to install massive engines Fitting a “bow windscreen” in front of weighing more than 1,500 the bridge lowers wind resistance and tons with accuracy down to raises fuel efficiency. The windscreen is shaped so as not to obstruct the 1/100th of a millimeter. view from the bridge. MHI has perfected its shipbuilding technologies over more than a century. Supporting the safe, longUsing natural energy term operation of vessels We have developed a photovoltaic this way translates to lengthpower generation system that generates ening the service life of ships energy while the ship is running. The enand, by extension, avoiding ergy is stored in rechargeable batteries wasteful use of resources. for use when the ship is in port, thereby A giant crane installing an engine into place enabling the onboard generator to be switched off while in port. Expectations of MHI Protecting marine ecosystems To improve the safety of cargo vessels during voyages without cargo, A Real Sense of Mitsubishi Heavy Industries’ Shipbuilding seawater is pumped into their tanks to serve as ballast in the unloading Technologies and Responsiveness port when the cargo is being discharged. This water is pumped out into the sea again when the ship reaches its loading port. On international The fact that I have been working in Nagasaki and with Mitsubishi routes, however, the foreign plankton and bacteria that are expelled since 2004 attest to the reality that we have the very best of workalong with the ballast seawater can affect marine ecosystems. ing relations with Mitsubishi, both as a team and I personally. To address this issue, MHI worked with Hitachi Plant In 2003, I was asked to join the PCTC project at Mitsubishi Technologies, Ltd., to develop a ballast water purification system. in Nagasaki. I had the best of memories of Nagasaki as well as This system employs magnetic force to attract microorganisms when seawater is being taken on, using a coagulation and magnetica close relation with MHI from Taronga’s time. Since then I have separation method to eliminate organisms from the inflow. As this worked in close cooperation with Mitsubishi on the 10-vessel system uses no biological toxins or chemicals, it leaves behind no PCTC project and now on the Mark V project. residue that might pollute the surrounding water. The first vessel, the TØNSBERG, was delivered on March 18 and departed the same day. During this time all of us at the Process of eliminating plankton, bacteria, etc. site felt that we received tremendous goodwill and solid understanding of our problems and issues. Mitsubishi exercised great Seawater ballast Processed water flexibility in addressing the challenges of building the world’s largest ro/ro vessels. Everyone at Mitsubishi lived up to the chalCoagulation lenge, and Mitsubishi showed clearly that they are the best at building these complicated vessels. No doubt in this. What can be improved? It is not my place to say so, but Magnetic as the question has come up: Try to think outside the box. separation Innovation is not a set of rules and regulations. Innovation Plankton, happens outside of these parameters and is only contained bacteria, etc. by rules and regulations. I understand that these are needed, but they address only the minimum. I guess you do not have to print this, Applying more than a century of shipbuilding but it is my personal opinion and extechnology to support safe, long-term vessel perience. operation Mr. Alexander Maresca Some of the ships that MHI builds exceed 300 meters in length Head Manager, Nagasaki Shipyard & and 40 meters in width. As such ships are not mass-produced, Machinery Works Wilhelmsen Marine Consultants MHI’s multifaceted ©JAMSTEC shipbuilding experience In 1857, MHI started Japan’s first repair facility for naval ships in Nagasaki. Since then, the shipyard has constructed some 5,300 ships, including cruise ships, cargo vessels and research ships. Cruise ship LNG carrier Deep sea drilling vessel 20 Close ties with the Earth Safeguard an abundantly green Earth through environmental technologies and environmental awareness Employees Introduce Our CSR Activities Taking on a Project to Regenerate Coral Reefs off Okinawa MHI Bridge & Steel Structures Engineering Co., Ltd. The world’s coral reefs rank alongside rainforests in terms of abundant biodiversity, but in recent years rising ocean temperatures have prompted the bleaching (death) of coral reefs in many parts of the world. To address this issue, in 2004 MHI Bridge & Steel Structures Engineering Co., Ltd. (MBE), started experiments at growing coral. Five years later, the company succeeded in developing a way to induce new coral growth. Building on this success, in 2011 MBE embarked on a coral reef regeneration project. This breakthrough project is designed to promote the restoration of coral reefs which, like plants, absorb CO2 and give off oxygen through photosynthesis. In 2004, while building a floating pier1 in Okinawa Prefecture, (electric field) promotes the growth MHI Bridge & Steel Structures Engineering Co., Ltd. (MBE), beof coral. The team also developed gan experimenting with the transplantation of coral at the pier’s a method to create a calcium carbonfar end. During this experiment, conducted in partnership with ate substrate3 for coral in a short pean aquarium-related venture company, C.P. Farm Co., Ltd., the riod of time by electrodeposition4. As engineers were amazed to find that coral had started to grow a result, the number of successfully even in areas where it had not been transplanted. implanted coral larvae was four to five Upon investigating possible causes, they posited that the times more than with the conventional weak current generated by the floating pier after electrolytic antimethod using unglazed ceramic tile corrosion treatment2 created an environment conducive to coral as the substrate. growth. They then approached Nippon Corrosion Engineering In January 2011, we received an Kazuyoshi Kihara Co., Ltd., with the issue, and in 2006 a research project on coral order from the city of Itoman for eight Manager propagation was launched together with the University of Tokyo, coral substrates (shelves); these were Engineering Group Bridge Headquarters the Akajima Marine Science Laboratory and C.P. Farm. set in place in Ishigaki Island’s Nagura Engineering Division After measuring the anti-corrosive current generated at Bay in April. Currently we are taking floating piers at two locations in Okinawa (Taketomi East and part in a coral regeneration project in cooperation with the local Kuroshima ports), experimenting in the ocean off Ishigaki Port, fishing cooperative. Since it is the great forces of nature we conand conducting laboratory experiments at growing coral at the front, there is no guarantee of success; but without question the University of Tokyo, in 2009 the research team concluded that project has made a major step toward the goal of restoring the a specific level (approximately 50 mA/m2) of current density coral reefs in the oceans off Okinawa. 1 Floating pier (built by MHI): The main structure (approx. 10 m x 35 m) is made of plate steel. In situ at the port, the structure is given an application of concrete on the top and side surfaces of the steel plates and floated. 2 Electrolytic anti-corrosion treatment: To prevent the plate steel from corroding (rusting) in the seawater, aluminum is installed near the base plates. The iron (steel plate) acts as the cathode and the aluminum as the anode, causing a weak electric current to flow. 3 Calcium carbonate substrate: A base, created on the surface of a rock, etc., upon which coral can calcify, affix and The floating pier at Taketomi East Port, Coral substrates (shelves) placed in grow. Taketomi Island; coral attached to the pier Nagura Bay on Ishigaki Island 4 Electrodeposition: Here, the term refers to the use of a weak electric current to fix the calcium ions, carbonate, etc. in seawater to the steel plate that acts as a cathode, resulting in the formation of calcium carbonate. Expectations of MHI We want to share the abundance of the oceans with the next generation. This project accords closely with our business philosophy, Even so, I believe that this which is to “convey the wonders of nature ever more broadly, project is important to restoring the without damaging nature.” We participated in this project in oceans to their former abundance, the hope that our knowledge and expertise in coral and other and I sincerely hope it will continue. marine life and in the marine environment might be useful. In addition to the fact that coral spawn only once a year, Mr. Toshiyuki Masukawa the conditions for regenerating coral are severe, marked by President and Representative Director C.P. Farm Co., Ltd. rising ocean temperatures, increasingly larger typhoons, and destruction of the environment. 21 Special Feature Contributing to local communities in Thailand 2 as a good corporate citizen Regions receiving Supporting local elementary schools for more elementary school support than a decade Phitsanulok (1998, 2010) Phtchabun (1998, 2007) Ubonratchathani (1999) Since 1998, Mitsubishi Heavy Industries-Mahajak Air Conditioners Loei (2000) Co., Ltd. (MACO) of Thailand, a core company in the MHI Group’s Buriram (2001) air-conditioning business, has been donating elementary school Uthaithani (2002) buildings and classrooms in impoverished regions of that country. Mahasarakham (2003) This initiative started with the idea of helping, even modestly, Sakaeo (2004 ) toward resolving two of Thailand’s major social issues: economic Chaiyaphum (2005) Nakhonratchasima (2006) and educational disparities between the country’s metropolitan reUttaradit (2008) gion and rural areas. Local employees are involved in all phases Figures in parentheses, ( ), indicate from recipient selection to construction management. the year of introduction. MACO Corporate Profile (As of January 2011) •Capitalization: 1,216 million Thai baht (approx. 3.6 billion yen) Graduates of support-receiving elementary schools •Employees: 2,322 (including 27 Japanese) (cumulative totals) •Annual production: 796,000 residential air-conditioners, 258,900 commercial air-conditioners •Sales breakdown: Southeast Asia & Oceania 50% (Thailand 13%), Europe 33%, Japan 17% (Graduates) 3,000 2,194 Close ties 2,000 1,272 1,000 566 2 115 0 1998 2001 2004 2007 2010 with Society Build a relationship of trust with society through proactive participation in society and trustworthy actions 22 A company deeply rooted in Thai society Addressing the issue of education in Thai society MACO, a manufacturer of air-conditioning equipment located in an industrial zone on the outskirts of Bangkok, was established For many years MACO has contributed to the development of in 1988 as a joint venture with Mahajak Industry Co., Ltd., one of the Thai economy by creating employment, boosting exports MHI’s local partners. Initially, MACO was involved mainly in the and transferring technology. Then 13 years ago, out of a manufacture of residential air-conditioners., but as MHI’s global desire to contribute more directly to resolving the country’s air-conditioning business grew the JV expanded its operations social issues, MACO embarked on an initiative to support eleto include procurement and sales as well as the manufacture of mentary schools. commercial air-conditioners. MACO has now grown to become Thailand’s economy continues to grow at an average a core company in MHI’s air-conditioner business. rate of around 4% per year. However, political and economic Since its establishment MACO has pursued a manageactivities are concentrated in Bangkok, and the income gap ment policy focused on localization, with the aim of setting between the metropolitan center and rural areas is higher than down firm roots in Thai society. In 2003, when it came to functwo to one in some instances. This level of economic disparity tion as a manufacturer, it adopted the slogan “The Spirit of contributes to a gap in education as well, and some children in Independence” as a clear indicator of its intention to grow and impoverished regions are unable to complete their compulsory develop in step with the Thai people. schooling. Furthermore, some schools lack sufficient facilities and educational materials. Many of MACO’s employees hail from outlying areas. To help ensure that the children in their hometowns have access to a good education as a way of improving Thai society, in 1998, on the occasion of its 10th anniversary in business, MACO resolved to address the educational issue head-on by launching activities to support elementary schools. Average years of education in Thailand (2007) Male Female Total Kingdom 7.94 7.44 7.68 Bangkok Metropolis 10.37 9.89 10.11 Central Region 8.3 7.8 8.1 Northern Region 7.1 6.5 6.8 Northeastern Region 7.3 6.8 7.1 Assembling air-conditioner outdoor units Southern Region 7.9 7.5 7.7 Focus on cultivating employees’ business Compiled based on the United Nations Development Programme’s Thailand Human Development Report 2009 operating skills To boost the business operating skills of its local Thai employLocal employees directly support their ees, MACO has proactively transferred technologies and prohometown elementary schools moted outstanding workers to management positions. The company also applies employees’ opinions and requests An employee volunteer organization, the Working Committee, toward improving the in-house work environment, and it has plays the central role in elementary school support activities. also promoted English-language education, technical training The committee also plans and conducts in-house activities, on a department-wide basis, and long-term training in Japan. including initiatives to improve employees’ work environment In 2010, MACO also began holding training sessions covering and society in general. CSR concepts, the company’s business philosophy, and the Support activities target schools in Thailand’s impoverbasics of what it means to be part of a business corporation. ished north and northeastern regions. Each year one school The company has also put in place a system enabling is selected among those meeting the following three criteria: it employees to screen and select suppliers based on objective must be in an employee’s hometown, it must face a shortage criteria. Furthermore, it treats all its suppliers like “partners,” of facilities and equipment, and teachers and community resias a way of building win-win relationships. dents must have an eager desire to improve their schools. The selected school receives aid in line with its requests for items that it lacks: for example, school buildings, a gymnasium, cafeteria, toilets or various types of equipment. A major feature of the program is that rather than simply donating money, MACO itself orders the construction work, oversees construction, and then donates a completed physical entity to the school. This approach allows the company to maximize its contribution within the available budget. The budget for such a project is 1 million baht (approx. 3 million yen), and a supplementary budget is provided to cover any small excess outlays. Each year, MHI labor union employees (Nagoya Air-Conditioning & Refrigeration Machinery Works) also provide donations of money, clothing, school equipment, Training session for sales distributor employees sporting goods, etc. 23 Process from recipient selection to school dedication children spanning nine school years (three years of kindergarten, 1. Selection of recipient candidates from provincial and government six years of elementary school). As a result, while elementary lists students would be studying in their classrooms, kindergarteners would simultaneously be at play in the same room. MACO decided to build and donate a new building with 2. Exploratory visits to candidate sites three classrooms for kindergarten students, as well as playground equipment. Construction commenced in May, with cooperation from students, 3. After meetings with school principals and local communities, final their parents/guardians and selection of recipient other local people—as well as a large number of MACO em4. Determination of support content ployee volunteers participating in the construction process. The newly completed facil5. Selection of contractor, etc.; management of construction progress ity was handed over formally at a ceremony in November—thus adding a well-equipped playground and making it possible 6. Upon completion of construction, formal dedication and transfer for students of each school year to have their own classroom. In fiscal 2011, MACO Kindergarten buildings and playground plans to donate four classequipment provided in fiscal 2010 rooms, toilets and other facilities to Ban kamhuachang-non In 2010, the company supported the Ban-Mai-Tong Prasert tun-pa ma-naow School in School in Phitsanulok, northern Thailand. Attending the school Khon Kaen Province, in northare 132 elementary school children and 59 kindergarteners—a eastern Thailand. total of 191 students—but there were only six classrooms for Children at the Ban-Mai-Tong Prasert School Expectations of MHI Our responsibilities and our actions I believe that creating better learning environments We are very grateful to MACO for its support in for children will make this a better country. enhancing our school’s educational environment. This project can be difficult, as the committee handles Several years ago, people in the local community got together everything from selecting the school to getting ready for to set up a school cafeteria as part of an aim to enhance the construction, to actually overseeing the construction. educational environment. The number of students increased But at the same time, this level of involvement makes as a result, so we were left with the chronic problem of having it all worthwhile. Witnessing the joy on the faces of the too few classrooms. But now, thanks to MACO’s donation of a donor school’s teachers and students, as well as other school building, students in each school year can study in their people in the community, makes us happy, too. own classroom. As school principal, I am very grateful. Now, This project has received high praise from the the number of students and parents seeing our new building government and local municipal organizations, but and wanting to transfer to our school is increasing steadily. what is even more gratifying is to know that we are At present, Thailand has some 40,000 public schools, building learning environments for children. Many of many of which suffer from shortages of classrooms and eduour co-workers come from poor areas, and we believe cational materials. As an educator who bemoans this situation, that by improving the learning environments in their I hope that MACO will continue this school support project, enhometowns, children will grow into responsible adults hancing educational environments all around our country. and Thailand will become a better country. Winyou Duangmanee Principal, Ban-Mai-Tong Prasert School Sunthon Duangsri Athikorn Rattanachai Assistant Manager Manager Assembly Team, Production Department General Affairs Department 24 Close ties with Society Build a relationship of trust with society through proactive participation in society and trustworthy actions Employees Introduce Our CSR Activities We donated MHI solar power generation equipment to a Japanese language school in Hanoi, Vietnam. Masato Ishida Acting Manager Engineering Group, Solar Power Department Power Systems I served as manager of a project to doTypically, even when solar power nate solar power generation equipment generation equipment is installed, supto DOWACEN, a Japanese language plies from the local electric utility continue school located on the outskirts of Hanoi, in parallel; but our plan was different. Vietnam. DOWACEN teaches Japanese We wanted to be able to deliver enough to the employees of many Japanese power through solar generation to supply Formal transfer ceremony at the site companies operating in the surrounding electricity to at least the four classrooms industrial area, including MHI Group airthat are needed to conduct classes craft components manufacturer MHI during the day. This project thus took Aerospace Vietnam Co., Ltd. (MHIVA). time, because in addition to providing In this region, however, commercial inthe generating equipment, we had to terests are given priority when allocating carefully check the operations of lighting electric power supplies, and outages at fixtures and fans, as well as explain how DOWACEN are frequent, affecting the to perform maintenance. The project school’s ability to provide education. presented a number of challenges, but The school therefore asked, via MHIVA, the system went into operation successfor MHI’s assistance. fully in December 2010 and is now being used by many people. Explaining the use of solar power generation equipment We are contributing to the lives of the people in Nepal by introducing fair trade products. Yumiko Iida CSR Group, General Affairs Department Nagoya Aerospace Systems Works One of the CSR activities conducted at pamphlets and introducing products that the Nagoya Aerospace Systems Works Nepali Bazaro handles, offering a disinvolves popularizing fair trade products count program for all Nagoya Aerospace among employees. “Fair trade” involves Systems Works employees and their purchasing, on an ongoing basis and families, and providing opportunities for at fair prices, the agricultural products, them to donate the equivalent of 10% of handicrafts and other items produced by their purchase price to serve as working Pamphlets introducing fair trade products people in developing countries who are capital of a Nepalese welfare program. at economic and social disadvantages. Many employees participate in this initiaThe movement began in an attempt to tive and rate it highly. Their comments change unfair trade practices. include “I like the organically grown Cooperating with us in this activity spices.” and “This gave me a chance is Nepali Bazaro, a company involved to learn about conditions in developing with producers in Nepal. We promote countries.” employee participation by producing Nepali Bazaro website 25 A bridge to the next Generation Contribute to the cultivation of human resources who can shoulder responsibility in the next generation through technologies that can realize dreams Special Conveying the enjoyment of manufacturing Feature through science classes applying our products 3 and technologies Drawing up a new roadmap based on three years of success In the belief that one of its social responsibilities is to cultivate taught lessons about manufacturing. In fiscal 2010 we held young people who will contribute to tomorrow’s global society such classes 34 times, for around 2,300 students. through science and technology, in 2008 MHI formulated a Going forward, MHI will continue such efforts to nurture three-year plan to support science education at schools. Since the next generation as a CSR priority. We are also now putting then, all company works have conducted science classes and together a new roadmap to further these activities. 2008Activities commence 2009 Participants number 2010 Ongoing 2011 Creating a Held science classes using the robot wakamaru. Gained an understanding of school needs 2,793 Held science classes employing products and technologies at implementation Improved methodologies, educational materials and programs, onward new three-year plan Formulating a new threeyear plan calling for enhanced and accumulated expertise in each of our works. Participants and continued holding classes cooperation with NPOs and conducting science classes. during the year totaled 2,793. at each of our works. activities overseas. 26 Overcoming lack of interest in science In fiscal 2010, we began working with NPOs and other promoters of science education for children as a way of enhancing In recent years, Japanese school children seem to be moving our teaching materials and programs. During the year we held away from the sciences. International academic surveys show 34 science classes attended by around 2,300 students. As a that the overall level of interest in science and technology among result, during the plan’s three-year period we provided learning Japanese children is below the average for the developed naopportunities to a total of 6,954 students. tions. Reasons given for this growing lack of interest in science The employees of individual works have shown great include fewer opportunities for children to experience nature enthusiasm in participating in the effort to support science or make things, and waning interest in the sciences among education, and the program has yielded a number of benelementary school teachers. As a manufacturing-oriented comefits. Sparking local students’ interest in science through pany, MHI has been eager to contribute to resolving this probexperience-based education has boosted motivation among lem, for the future of Japan. employees, and the program is enabling many of the works to Against this backdrop, in April 2008 we drew up a threebecome more firmly rooted in their surrounding communities. year plan to support science education at schools. The aim was to begin offering science classes that would communicate to children the wonder and beauty of science and technology. Since that time, we have sent employees from our works throughout Japan to conduct science classes at nearby elementary schools. We have also hosted plant tours and conducted hands-on classes at our works for students from local schools, giving them an opportunity to learn about manufacturing by experiencing it first-hand. Swimming experiment using a robotic Experiment introducing the principles of fish artificial satellite attitude control Interest in science and technology by Japanese students (%) OECD average Japan Cumulative number of science class participants 80 67 8,000 6,954 63 63 60 58 51 6,000 50 50 4,602 43 40 36 4,000 29 1,809 2,000 20 0 2008 2009 2010 0 I enjoy acquiring I generally have fun I am interested I like reading I am happy doing new knowledge when I am learning in learning about science. science problems. in science. science topics. about science. Science classes held in fiscal 2010 Compiled based on results of Programme for International Student Assessment, Division/Headquarters, Works Participants Content and Themes Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development Transportation Systems & Advanced Motor and brake mechanisms, 53 Technology Division the power of air Holding science classes that leverage each works’ specialties Industrial Machinery Business, Technology & Solutions Division; MHI Solution 147 Classes using robotic fish In fiscal 2008, all 13 works conducted science classes using Technologies Co., Ltd. the MHI-developed communication robot, wakamaru. In fiscal Industrial Machinery Business, Technology Turbine and compressor 2009, we improved our methodologies, educational materials 136 & Solutions Division mechanisms and programs and planned and conducted science classes featuring products specific to each of the works—rockets, Shimonoseki Shipyard & Machinery Works 70 Mechanisms that drive ships ships, air-conditioners, forklifts and the like—and their manufacturing technologies. Kobe Shipyard & Machinery Works, Science classes using Transportation Systems & Advanced 80 wakamaru Technology Division, Kobe Site Making a pinwheel: wind Yokohama Machinery Works 63 power generation mechanism and the power of the wind Tour of demonstration wind turYokohama Machinery Works 79 bine, wind power generation experiment using model Nagoya Guidance & Propulsion Systems 1,622 Rockets and artificial satellites Works Science classes using Head Office 102 wakamaru Total 2,352 A science class featuring wakamaru 27 Reflecting feedback from schoolteachers Responding to this advice and these opinions, the repreand NPOs in creating new plans sentatives from the Industrial Machinery Business, Technology & Solutions Division commented that helping children learn As part of the planning process, we regularly consult with requires a long-term commitment. They added that the views schoolteachers and NPOs about various aspects of our sciexpressed by the teachers and representatives from KU-MA ence class support activities. would be applied toward enhancing the program’s content For example, in February 2011 we invited 136 students and making the program’s activities firmly established within from the nearby Hiroshima Minamikanon Elementary School the community. In this way, all the participants agreed that goto our Industrial Machinery Business, Technology & Solutions ing forward they would continue to work together in educating Division (the current Hiroshima Machinery Works) to teach them local children, each respectively applying its special aspects about manufacturing—in particular the power of air—using a as a school, NPO and business enterprise. compressor, one of this division’s main products, as the teaching aid. Following the class, we hosted an idea exchange attended by Mr. Takuya Suga, a teacher and vice principal at the Idea exchange participants Note: Positions are as of March 31, 2011 school, and people from the Kodomo Uchu Mirai Association (KU-MA), an incorporated nonprofit organization that specializes in science classes. Mr. Suga pointed out one of the difficulties of conducting science classes. “Many children inherently enjoy undertaking science experiments,” he commented, “but if we don’t convey to them clearly the reasons for conducting the experiments, they gradually lose interest.” Concerning MHI’s activities, he had this to offer: “There’s great value in having Takuya Suga Sumio Endo Yuichi Taguchi people who are personally involved in manufacturing come to Teacher and Vice Principal, Director, Kodomo Uchu Mirai the schools and make the children aware that what they are Hiroshima Minamikanon Kodomo Uchu Mirai Association Elementary School Association studying in school plays a useful role in the world. The children can also learn how products are completed only through the cooperation of many people, including designers, engineers, and so on. This helps them learn about careers.” Mr. Sumio Endo, Director of KU-MA, also offered up some valuable opinions. On the basic thinking to apply in creating the program, he suggested that when you begin by asking why a particular phenomenon occurs, it sparks a child’s interest. He also stated that since many of MHI’s products are large or heavy Yujiro Nagamatsu Hiroyuki Hibara Keiichi Iida Manager, General Affairs Head of Participating Team, Manager, or feature outstanding performance, learning about them leads Section, General Affairs General Affairs Section, CSR Department to formative experiences that respond to children’s basic quesDept., Industrial Machinery General Affairs Dept., Business, Technology & Industrial Machinery Business, tioning about things. Mr. Endo also expressed his hope that MHI Solutions Division Technology & would demonstrate to children how leading-edge technology is Solutions Division closely connected with their lives. Drawing up a new roadmap for further expansion MHI is in the process of creating a new roadmap for its support of science classes, drawing on its three years of experience in these activities. The new roadmap will call for greater involvement by NPOs and other outside specialists; and in reflection of our globalizing business operations, we plan to launch science classes at our overseas bases. Exchange of ideas at the Industrial Machinery Business, Technology & Solutions Division 28 A bridge to the next Generation Contribute to the cultivation of human resources who can shoulder responsibility in the next generation through technologies that can realize dreams. Employees Introduce Our CSR Activities I hope to pass on to the next generation the things I have learned through the National Skills Competition. Hitomi Tashiro Human Resources Educational Section, General Affairs Department Power Systems In October 2010 I won the bronze medal and joint practice sessions. Our task in the electric welding category at the was to weld a specific item according 48th National Skills Competition held in to a drawing within the specified period Kanagawa Prefecture. The competition, of time, and evaluations were made of an annual affair, is aimed at demonstrathow accurately we welded, how the fining the importance of and need for techished work looked, and its performance Welding competition at the National Skills nical skills, fostering respect for these in pressure tests. Actually, I wasn’t reCompetition skills, and promoting an awareness of the ally satisfied with my work, so I was surimportance of manufacturing. The conprised to receive a medal. testants, all 23 years of age or younger, A technician needs to make a volcompete in some 40 categories. untary effort to increase his or her knowThis was my second time particiledge and technical skills, but there also pating in the contest, and up until the is much to be learned from other people. day of the event I practiced basic skills I hope to play a useful role in society by and continued analyzing what we would someday being able to pass on my own be tested on, mastering the steps intechnical skills, knowledge and experivolved and so on. I also took part in netence to the next generation. working events with other companies Hitomi Tashiro at the award ceremony We hold regular craft workshops to cultivate children’s interest in science. Maki Sano Mitsubishi Minatomirai Industrial Museum At the Mitsubishi Minatomirai Industrial ideas. The museum also prepares and Museum, we hold regular craft workhands out instruction sheets so that they shops to convey to children the fascinatcan apply and develop what they learned ing world of science. I am responsible through the workshop at home or at for all aspects of the program, including school, hopefully leading them to make everything from planning, publicity and new discoveries. operation to actual teaching. When Experimenting with optical illusions using conducting a workshop, I always try a hand-made top to choose a theme that will spark the children’s interest and make them Mitsubishi Minatomirai Industrial want to participate. I also use easyMuseum to-understand language to help them http://www.mhi.co.jp/en/ understand what they have learned museum/ through making their project. Open hours: From 10:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. For example, during one workshop (admission until 4:30 p.m.) we made paper airplanes. We talked Closed days: Every Monday (following day about what tools would make the job if Monday is a national holiday), at the easier and how we should fold the paper year-end New Year, and on specified to keep the airplanes aloft as long as closed days possible, and then we tested out these Phone: +81-45-200-7351 Craft workshop 29 The objective of MHI is to be a company trusted to meet the expectations of society with CSR as the cornerstone of its management practices. Endeavoring to fulfill this goal, MHI focuses its energies on three components: fair and sound management, the environment, and sociability. The following is a report of MHI’s concepts and efforts in line with these three components. Fair and Sound Management We strive to conduct fair and sound management practices while observing all applicable laws, regulations, rules and social conventions. Corporate Governance P. 31 Compliance P. 42 • Current Status of Corporate Governance and Internal Controls • Promoting Compliance through a Structure Encompassing the • Risk Management and Crisis Management Entire Group • New Organizations and Measures Concerning Business and • Improving Compliance Policy/Guidelines Management • Preventing a Recurrence of Legal Violations (if any) • Secure Safeguarding of Proprietary Information Promotion of CSR P. 36 • Compliance Education and Increasing Awareness • Promoting Comprehensive and Strategic CSR Activities • Activities of Major Related Committees in Fiscal 2010 Report on Environmental Initiatives We contribute to the preservation of the environment of society as a whole by understanding the impact of our business activities on the environment and working to alleviate environmental loads. Environmental Management P. 52 Countermeasures against Global Warming P. 68 • Environmental Management Promotion System • Promotion of Energy-saving and CO2 Emission Control Measures • Establishing and Operating an Environmental Management System • Measures to Curb Energy Use in Transport Based on its Own Standards • Energy-saving Activities in Offices • Preserving Biodiversity • CO2 reductions with MHI product usage (FY2010) • Controlling and Improving Response to Potential Environmental Impact Risks Resource Conservation and Waste Management P. 74 • Status of Environmental Accidents and Legal Violations • Curbing Waste Generation, Release and Disposal • Environmental Management Systems Adopted at MHI and Its • Using electronic manifests (e-manifests) Subsidiaries Management of Chemical Substances P. 78 Targets and Progress P. 60 • Curbing the Use and Emissions of Chemical Substances through Proper Management and Use of Alternatives Material Balance P. 65 Products and Technologies that Reduce Environmental Environmental Accounting P. 66 Impact P. 81 • Main products and technologies in 2010 • Products and technologies that contribute to a low-carbon society Report on Social Actions Our business activities are implemented with thoughtful consideration for our diverse stakeholders as a provider of products and technology that support society’s infrastructure. Commitment to Our Customers P. 85 Commitment to Our Employees P. 101 • Enhancing Product Safety • Utilizing and Cultivating Diverse Human Resources • Enhancing Customer Satisfaction (CS) • Building a Better Working Environment • Maintaining and Strengthening the Defense Production and • Forum 35 Technological Bases Contributions to Society P. 113 Commitment to Our Shareholders and Investors P. 93 • Fulfilling our Policy on Socially Beneficial Activities • Disclosure Principles and IR Activities • Achievements Made Through Socially Beneficial Activities • Recent Dividend Disbursements • Examples of Regional Socially Beneficial Activities Commitment to Our Business Partners (Suppliers) P. 96 • Examples of Activities that Nurture the Next Generation • Examples of MHI Group Company Activities • Fair Dealing • Promoting CSR Procurement • Procurement Education and Training 30 Corporate Governance/Fair and Sound Management Current Status of Corporate Governance and Internal Controls Strengthening the oversight functions of the Board of Directors through such measures as appointing outside directors The Board of Directors makes important key management decisions and oversees the execution of business operations, while statutory auditors audit the execution of duties of directors and other matters. Currently, 3 of the company's 19 directors and 3 of its 5 statutory auditors are from outside MHI and are engaged in their respective roles of overseeing and auditing management by maintaining an independent standpoint from the management team. The company has also streamlined the Board of Directors, shortened the term of office, and introduced an Executive Officer System. MHI has sought through these measures to reinforce the oversight functions of the Board of Directors and to clarify the roles and responsibilities of the directors who make decisions on key management issues and oversee the overall management of the company as well as the roles and responsibilities of the executive officers who execute business. MHI has also established an Executive Committee to serve as a forum for discussing important matters related to business execution. This allows for a more cohesive approach in terms of discussions as part of the operational execution framework centered on the President, and consequently leads to more effective management decisions and business execution. In accordance with the auditing policy and auditing plan determined by the Board of Statutory Auditors, statutory auditors attend key meetings, such those held by the Board of Directors, the Executive Committee, and Business Plan Meetings, to study and monitor the management operation status. They also examine legal and regulatory compliance, and monitor the development and operation of internal control systems, including those related to financial reporting. These auditing operations enable them to ascertain whether the directors are executing their duties in compliance with laws and Articles of Incorporation, and whether company affairs are being appropriately executed. Statutory auditors also periodically exchange information and opinions with the Management Audit Department and accounting auditors, and collaborate closely with them in other ways, including receiving audit results and attending accounting audits. The Statutory Auditors' Office has been set up with its own dedicated staff to support the implementation of auditing tasks and facilitate the work carried out by statutory auditors. Corporate Governance Structure (including internal control system) (as of April 1, 2011) 31 Corporate Governance/Fair and Sound Management Ensuring reliability of financial reporting by assessing the status and operation of the internal control system C In May 2006, the Board of Directors approved a basic policy for internal control systems. Under this policy, the company has been steadily promoting thorough compliance, reinforcing risk management, and improving the effectiveness of internal audits. Under the Japanese Financial Instruments and Exchange Law, an internal control reporting system, sometimes referred to as J-SOX, came into effect in April 2008. Prior to this, the Board of Directors revised the basic policy in March 2008 to articulate its response. In April 2008 MHI set up a group inside the Internal Audit Department (the current Management Audit Department) to be responsible for all J-SOX-related operations inside the MHI Group, concurrently setting up similar groups or departments throughout all of our manufacturing works. In fiscal 2010, as in earlier years, the Internal Audit Department (the current Management Audit Department) and the internal audit divisions of our manufacturing works exercised the initiative in assessing the status and operation of the internal control system and concluded that the MHI Group's internal controls related to financial reporting were functioning effectively. 32 Corporate Governance/Fair and Sound Management Risk Management and Crisis Management Steady implementation of risk reduction measures based on periodic assessments MHI periodically assesses risk for all operations in order to fully comprehend risks at all Group companies. In fiscal 2009, these assessments were expanded to all Group companies for the purpose of determining risks of great importance. In fiscal 2010, MHI made sure that process owners (Note1) were conducting risk reduction measures in risk areas deemed to require stronger measures, such as foreign exchange fluctuations, earthquakes and natural disasters, the environmental control and information security management. In addition, self-examination of risk assessment outcomes of the previous year was conducted and confirmed that any changes have not occurred in it. Further, in April 2011 we initiated the Risk Management Supervisors Meeting and enacted company rules regarding risk management so that risk-management PDCA cycle could be effectively conducted. In this meeting, we also scrutinized the management of risks of great importance and the improvement and strengthening of the risk management system for the entire MHI Group in an effort to appropriately manage risks in the execution of business. (Note1) Organizations and/or Persons responsible of improving and executing task management systems. 33 Corporate Governance/Fair and Sound Management New Organizations and Measures Concerning Business and Management Implementing organizational reforms to reinforce business operations and corporate functions Factors such as markets shifting away from developed nations to emerging ones and the accompanying escalating price wars escalating; and global competition in the fields of energy the environment have all resulted in drastic changes in the business environment. In response to this, in April 2010, MHI drew up a medium-term management plan, 2010 Business Plan. This plan established a business strategy that was flexible and responsive, and promoted the strengthening of corporate-wide cross-functions. Under this plan, in April 2011 the organizational structure was revised into a unified business segments system from the conventional 2-track system of promoting business through a system of segments and worksite office operations. The authority and responsibility of executing business, including business planning, quality assurance, marketing, design, manufacturing, and construction, which had previously been entrusted to each worksite, were transferred to segments, which aim to promptly and effectively execute business by integrating functions related to implementing operations. MHI had implemented this heightened functioning of segments at mass and medium-lot manufacturing segments, Power Systems, and Machinery & Steel Infrastructure Systems, but this organizational reform was carried out at all segments and worksite offices. In addition to this consolidation toward a system of business segments, administration department functions were also fortified in order to efficiently support departmental business at a high level. Specifically, enhancements were made to strategic functions corporate-wide that examine the best business structure in order to effectively utilize the management resources of all companies. Improvements were also made to cross-sectional communication exchange among all companies to facilitate communication among segments that handle a variety of products. These reforms will build a system capable of flexibly responding to various customer needs and elevate corporate presence in the global market by boosting the competitiveness of all segments, and increasing the ability to offer solutions through the combination of products carried by segments. Accelerating strengthening of Monodzukuri (production system for value creation) capabilities through process innovation across the company Monodzukuri capability is the origin of the competitiveness in the manufacturing industry. Maintaining and strengthening this capability has emerged as a critical management issue in the face of today's increasingly severe business climate. Based on this understanding, the Production System Innovation Planning Department (launched in 2006) began liaising with worksite promotion leaders and their structure for promoting innovation in manufacturing. The department worked to create a continuous process of innovation, from marketing and design to manufacturing and service. In addition, the same department headed the conference of general managers for the different categories (manufacturing/design/quality) common to all worksites. By teaming with relevant groups, including the Presidential Administration Office, Information Systems & Communications Department, Personnel Department, Material Department, and the Technical Headquarters they solved issues common among all Group companies that were difficult for individual worksites to handle, such as cultivating and strengthening HR, transferring technology and skills, and improving equipment and business processes—all of which form the foundation of manufacturing. These actions fortified the foundation for production at manufacturing companies by bettering the corporate-wide technical and vocational training system, improving productivity by upgrading outdated production equipment, and creating a place to communicate in order to solve issues shared among worksites. 34 Corporate Governance/Fair and Sound Management Fiscal 2010 Initiatives Based on the Performance Index for Innovative Monodzukuri Actions, which is linked to the business plan, in fiscal 2010 improvements were made to productivity, the hours required for process completion were diminished, and efforts to reduce inventory were put into effect. A system to quantify the performance index was established. A bill of materials (BOM), which leads to stronger manufacturing, was also created for all products, and improvements were made to the design process to pinpoint problems in the management of products subject to complaints. Furthermore, MHI began preparations to establish a production hub for parts throughout the companies. Fiscal 2011 Plans In April 2011, the Production System Innovation Planning Department was integrated with the Technology & Innovation Headquarters with the goal of encouraging corporate-wide crosscooperation. MHI will continue to accelerate the implementation of innovative Monodzukuri actions. It will utilize the 6M (Man, Machine, Material, Method, Market, and Money) methodology benchmarks to evaluate the organizational capabilities of manufacturing, and promote the creation of BOM and improvements to the design process to prevent product complaints. Furthermore, based on the current trend that shifts the bulk of manufacturing overseas while maintaining the mother factory in Japan, MHI will boost its manufacturing capacity both domestically and abroad by assistance for overseas expansion including manufacture and procurement in Southeast Asia, India, etc. 35 Promotion of CSR/Fair and Sound Management Promoting Comprehensive and Strategic CSR Activities The CSR Committee monitors the progress of six categories of important activities. In October 2006, the company set up the CSR Committee, chaired by the President, and the CSR Department, which reports directly to the President, in order to strengthen management of CSR. Furthermore, during the organizational reforms made in April 2011, the CSR Department became the Presidential Administration Office/CSR Department, which undertakes corporate planning for all companies. Until now, the CSR Committee had monitored the progress of CSR activities by individual committees and groups of managing members and representative CSR activities based on the CSR Action Guidelines, as indicated in the CSR Action Plan (Roadmap) for fiscal 2008 to fiscal 2010, but from this point on they will implement and follow up on activities based on a new roadmap drawn up for the next three years, from fiscal 2011 to 2013. In fiscal 2010 the committee confirmed the status of actions and relevant issues for the six categories (CSR promotion, compliance, environment, human rights/labor, product responsibility, and risk management) in regard to CSR activities taken by individual committees and groups of managing members. Prior to the CSR Committee meeting, the CSR Liaison Conference, comprised of various committees and groups of managing members, was held to review activity reports and discuss future courses of action. In regard to the representative CSR activities based on the CSR Action Guidelines, activities were promoted by a CSR Director and CSR Practice Manager assigned to each Headquarters, worksite, and spin-off Group company in order to develop CSR awareness throughout the entire Group. CSR Promotion System (as of April 1, 2011) 36 Promotion of CSR/Fair and Sound Management Sustained Promotion of PDCA Based on the CSR Action Plan In fiscal 2010, we ran PDCA cycles, including follow-up and evaluation of progress and achievements, and the consideration of future plans for each of the six areas CSR promotion, compliance, environment, human rights/labor, product responsibility, and risk management outlined in the CSR Action Plan. In the area of CSR promotion, the CSR Report was distributed to all MHI Group employees (86,000 copies) in fiscal 2010, and the following actions were carried out at each site. CSR Training Sessions In fiscal 2010, training sessions were held at nine works and 627 people participated. Activities such as group discussions were held with the goal of broadening CSR awareness. The company also conducted a diagnostic survey to clarify the challenges faced by, current CSR activities. The results of this analysis will be applied to future CSR activities. CSR training was also held for 1,490 new employees at all works, including the Head Office. This brought the number of participants for the year to 2,117 people (6.4 percent attendance). CSR training at Shimonoseki Shipyard & Machinery Works. President's Town Meeting In fiscal 2010, with the aim of boosting employee motivation and revitalization activities, the president visited 11 workplaces to engage in dialogues with frontline staff and employees in their mid-thirties, who will be playing leading roles in the future. Forum 35 Activity for re-energizing the organization through the exchange of ideas and concerns about the company and society involving employees in their mid-thirties. Meetings, inter-worksite opinion exchanges, and discussions with the president were held at seven locations, including the Head Office. 37 Promotion of CSR/Fair and Sound Management Activities of Major Related Committees in Fiscal 2010 CSR Commi ttee: Follo win g up on CSR a ctivi ties Having followed up on the status of activities by individual committees and groups of manager members at the 8th session of the CSR Committee held in June 2010 and the 9th session held in December, we confirmed they were working systematically based on their individual roadmaps. With the aims of gaining even more trust from society (all stakeholders) and continuously developing business, activities will continue to be promoted around the CSR Action Guidelines. Building on three years of achievements, the CSR Committee will look to adapt the ideas that have been produced thus far, and support new challenges. Com plian ce Commi ttee : Discus sing corporate-wide c ompl iance promotion plans The Compliance Committee was established in 2001 as an organization that discusses issues such as the state of compliance promotion throughout the corporation. It handles the creation of corporate-wide compliance promotion plans and confirms the status of progress. The committee also endeavors to educate employees on compliance awareness, and since fiscal year 2003 has been continuously holding compliance promotion training. The outcomes of this training are confirmed through a compliance awareness survey, which has shown that each year the awareness toward compliance held by individuals at all worksites is increasing. Env ironme nt Commi ttee: Discussi ng t he Group's p romotio n of y early environme ntal meas ures The Environment Committee was established as an inter-departmental organization for the entire corporation in 1996. During its twice-yearly meetings, it plans and composes corporate-wide environmental measures for the year and sets the tone for initiatives, as well as promotes and follows up on the yearly environmental preservation plans of individual works. In fiscal 2010, the committee discussed the progress being made in implementation of measures for reducing CO2 emissions and cutting waste (including zero emissions), which were outlined in the fiscal 2009 Environmental Management Plan. Discussions were also held on the implementation of environmental meetings, and the committee has held initiatives for Group-wide promotion of consolidated environmental management. Furthermore, it deliberates on implementing plans for environmental audits of works for the purpose of continually reducing environmental risks and thoroughly complying with environmental laws and regulations. The committee aims to improve the management level at each works by following up on the outcomes of those actions. 38 Promotion of CSR/Fair and Sound Management Com mittee for Raisi ng Awarenes s of Hum an Rig hts: Promo ting a workplac e in whi ch ev ery emp loye e respe cts th e hum an rig hts of other s MHI set up the Committee for Raising Awareness of Human Rights in 1992 to promote the establishment of a sound workplace in which every employee correctly understands the issue and respects the human rights of others. Chaired by the Director in charge of personnel and with the membership of general managers in charge of personnel of each works, the committee is working on raising awareness of human rights, sharing information and promoting human rights training. The committee has also established a system for preventing sexual harassment by establishing a contact point for consultation and by creating an e-mail mailing address dedicated to consultation. In fiscal 2010, the committee implemented a training program for raising awareness among new recruits, newly appointed managers and supervisors. In addition, the committee implemented and strengthened educational efforts through actions such as distributing a pamphlet within the Group to prevent harassment, adding new themes in compliance promotion training, and introducing online learning for the first time. Comm ittee for Promoti ng the Employ ment of the Han dicap ped: Proac tivel y promo ting t he exp ansi on of job op portuni ties f or the d isabl ed Based on the Disabled People Employment Promotion Act, this committee was established in 1992 to expand employment opportunities for differently-abled people because MHI believes it is the corporation's social responsibility to provide opportunities for them to utilize their abilities. The committee is chaired by the Director in charge of personnel and has the membership of general managers in charge of personnel at each works. The committee convenes yearly to formulate basic policies related to employment of differently-abled people, draw up and implement relevant plans, raise awareness to promote employment, share information, and contact and work with relevant administrative agencies and organizations. In fiscal 2010, the committee strove to strengthen the expansion of employment activities based on a July 2010 law revision. It continued to proactively advance recruitment by using its website mano a mano in Spanish or hand to hand , which was created to support the employment of differentlyabled, people while coordinating with local employment offices and vocational schools for the differently-abled people, and actively participating in job interviews. As a result, as of April 1, 2011, the employment rate for the differently-abled people at MHI is 1.97 percent, which exceeds the statutory employment rate of 1.8 percent. The mano a mano webpage for differently-abled people. 39 Promotion of CSR/Fair and Sound Management Internatio nal Trade Control Commi ttee: P romo ting e duca tion o n leg al com pli ance and c reating various rules and m anua ls As a company with a high export ratio, MHI is aware that export controls complying with exportrelated laws and regulations, such as the Foreign Exchange & Foreign Trade Control Act, are taking on greater importance. The International Trade Control Committee meets regularly on a monthly basis to stringently screen exports of controlled items and transfers of controlled technologies as well as exports of commodities to nations and regions that are subject to international sanctions, in order to prevent MHI technologies and commodities from being used for nefarious purposes, such as for weapons of mass destruction. The Committee also draws up effective rules and manuals and designs various in-house education programs to enhance employees' understandings of export controls and strengthen MHI's export control systems. In fiscal 2010, in addition to continuously promoting e-learning programs for all employees, the training sessions were regularly held for employees responsible for each division and they shared information about past examples of both successful and mistakable export control management at these training sessions. Due to the introduction of the border-based control on transferring technologies outside the country by the revisions of the Foreign Exchange & Foreign Trade Control Act, the Committee has also created easy understandable manuals for technical presentations outside the company and draw up yes-no flowcharts on taking computers outside the country while traveling on business. Construction Business Act Compliance Committee: Implementing actions to improve subcontract optimization Since MHI is involved in new construction and repair of sites such as power plants, it is well aware of the importance of complying with the Construction Industry Act, and in 2003 established the Construction Business Act Compliance Committee. It is working to promote revision of various inhouse structures and systems in order to abide by the Construction Industry Act, to educate employees, to manage the qualifications and support the training of engineers, and to conduct appropriate management of building construction. In fiscal 2009, employees from various works that directly supervised new construction and repairs developed and began corporate-wide utilization of an independent compliance system that thoroughly adheres to the law by taking personal responsibility and authority. In fiscal 2010, a meeting for business partners to explain the Construction Industry Act was held at five locations in Japan to promote optimization of subcontracts. There were 292 participants from a total of 207 partner companies. A lecture on the Construction Industry Act was also held on nine occasions at major works, drawing 951 participants, including Group employees. The committee is working to improve the corporate-wide adherence level through these activities. Order Compliance Committee: Implementing various measures ensure legal compliance in sales activities MHI established the Order Compliance Committee in August 2005 to ensure legal compliance in sales activities with the intent of preventing a recurrence of past violations of the Anti-Monopoly Act. The committee has set up rules of conduct for the Public Sector Procurement Department and has constructed systems that include implementing compliance checks for competitive construction bids to ensure transparency in sales actions. In addition, special monitoring has confirmed that these measures are being appropriately carried out. 40 Promotion of CSR/Fair and Sound Management Managing Board for Innovation in the Nuclear Business: Planning measures for all departments to improve safety in nuclear energy Because MHI is involved in nuclear energy, a business that demands a high degree of safety, this committee was established in 2004 to ascertain the factors that contributed to a secondary pipe fracture in Mihama Power Station Unit 3, run by the Kansai Electric Power Co. In addition to preventing recurrence through the use of technology, it was commissioned to draw up and execute measures to reform nuclear business within the company, including measures for product quality and crisis management. In fiscal 2010, the following activities continued to be promoted at the Nuclear Energy Systems Headquarters, Kobe Shipyard & Machinery Works, and Takasago Machinery Works. Fiscal 2010 Initiatives Employees involved in nuclear business have taken the lessons learned from the accident to heart. They are taking further action to build a climate and culture of safety, further improving and strengthening internal audits to actualize organizational problems, and implementing quality management that includes regular convening of a design/manufacturing/QA liaison conference. The employees are also offering proposals to power companies for boosting the maintenance of older nuclear power stations. 41 Compliance/Fair and Sound Management Promoting Compliance through a Structure Encompassing the Entire Group Placing point of contact persons responsible for promoting compliance in all departments and Group companies. The Compliance Committee was established in May 2001 to strictly observe applicable laws and social norms, and to promote fair and honest business practices. The committee meets twice annually to draw up company-wide compliance support plans and to measure progress. It is chaired by the director in charge of compliance, and its members consist of general managers from relevant departments at the Head Office, branch managers, deputy general managers from all worksites, and general managers from all planning and management departments at headquarters and divisions. In April 2006, Departmental Compliance Committees were established in all departments of the company. These committees are chaired by the department's respective member of the Compliance Committee, and compliance measures are implemented for each respective department. At the same time, Compliance Liaison Conferences were set up for regularly exchanging compliance information with Group companies. Individual departments are required to ensure their own compliance through these committees and conferences, and are expected to carry out compliance activities on their own accord as part of their responsibility. Based on the results of a survey on compliance awareness, and the percentage of individuals that attend compliance promotion trainings, in fiscal year 2010 the Compliance Committee confirmed that compliance activities are increasing and employee awareness of compliance has risen. It also confirmed that appropriate measures are being taken, such as the inclusion of relevant themes in training sessions for issues that need improvement. Compliance Promotion System (as of April 1, 2011) 42 Compliance/Fair and Sound Management Implementing a point of contact/hotline for all employees and clients A hotline has been established specifically for business clients and employees (including contract employees) of MHI and all Group companies that wish to report or discuss potentially unlawful or dishonest acts they have come upon. Contact can be made through email, phone, or Fax. The Compliance Committee will promptly investigate the reported information and communicate with the director in charge. Information on what should be reported is contained in the Compliance Guidelines distributed to all employees and in bulletins published in-house monthly. Setting clear regulations on the rights afforded to in-house informants With the implementation of the hotline, the rights for protection afforded to informants were set out in the 2007 company regulations entitled, Compliance Promotions, which states that the informant's name will not be released without the person's consent, and the informant will not be placed at any disadvantage because of the information s/he has reported. Employees have been advised of the rights to protection given to in-house informants and have been told of the existence of the hotline. Twice yearly an investigation is conducted to determine whether such individuals' rights have been violated. 43 Compliance/Fair and Sound Management Improving Compliance Policy/Guidelines The Compliance Guidelines Clarifies Behavior Standards The MHI Compliance Guidelines established in September 2001 explicitly set forth required behavior standards so that compliance with applicable laws and social norms can be comprehensively achieved in business activities, societal relationships, and employee relationships. This policy has been printed on cards so that it can be carried with workers and has been distributed to all employees, including contract workers. In addition, all employees have been provided with MHI's Compliance Guidelines, which contains straightforward explanations on specific areas requiring caution during the execution of daily duties. Moreover, thorough articles on compliance have regularly been included in company bulletins, and from fiscal year 2010, illustrated articles have been included to further heighten employee awareness. Compliance Guidelines MHI Compliance Guidelines I Business activities We will conduct company activities in a sensible and appropriate manner and in compliance with applicable laws and social norms, and will contribute to society by providing safe, highquality products and services. II Relationship between the company and society We will try to preserve the environment and live in harmony with society as a good corporate citizen. III Relationship between the company and employees The company will provide a safe, healthy work environment, and company members will make clear distinctions between public and private activities and obligations, comply with applicable laws and internal rules, and execute their duties faithfully. Formulating and publicizing company guidelines for preventing bribery involving foreign civil servants MHI strives for fairness in its global commercial transactions by upholding its fundamental policy of complying with the Unfair Competition Prevention Law and the Guidelines to Prevent Bribery of Foreign Public Officials that forbid bribing a civil servant of a foreign country in order to obtain an unfair advantage. The MHI Compliance Guidelines also prohibit improper business dealings. In conjunction with these principles, the company established the Guidelines for the Prevention of Bribery Involving Foreign Civil Servants in April 2005 to define the rules of conduct based on the Unfair Competition Prevention Law. These documents have been posted on the company's intranet to ensure a thorough understanding of these policies by all involved in MHI's overseas business. 44 Compliance/Fair and Sound Management Firm Measures Against Antisocial Forces MHI's Compliance Guidelines clearly set forth firm measures to deal with antisocial forces, such as racketeering. All MHI facilities have established departments to direct measures to be taken if unjust demands are made by antisocial forces. The aforementioned departments will work with other relevant departments to comprehensively deal with the incident as an organization. In addition, MHI has taken actions, including compliance training, to promote the ideal mindset and essential concepts for responding to undue claims. Moreover, MHI pro-actively strives to build close cooperative relationships with police, lawyers, and special institutions, to gain advice and support for dealing with unjust demands. Eliminating Camouflage Contracts Based on the Policies of the Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare In 2007, the Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare created Guidelines for Measures that Should be Adopted by Outsourcers Striving to Improve and Optimize Employment Management of Contract Work for Manufacturing Businesses. Based on these guidelines, MHI is strictly enforcing the rule that states, When direct supervision is required, utilize direct employment, and when not required, contract out the work. In addition, MHI is voluntarily and actively working to prevent incidences of the so-called camouflage contract problem by implementing compliance training, thoroughly auditing worksite conditions, and holding consultations with the labor department. 45 Compliance/Fair and Sound Management Preventing a Recurrence of Legal Violations (if any) Continuing a System that Ensures Compliance and Transparency in OrderReceiving Activities From 2005 to 2006, MHI was the subject of an investigation by the Japan Fair Trade Commission and other offices when it fell under suspicion of violating the Anti-Monopoly Act in construction orders involving steel bridge construction projects and night-soil treatment plants. MHI took the investigation seriously, and established the Order Compliance Committee in an effort to prevent potentially suspect activities from occurring again. MHI has worked diligently to build a stringent system to uphold the Anti-Monopoly Act that ensures the transparency and legality of orderreceiving activities. This system includes drawing up action standards for the Public Sector Procurement Department, carrying out compliance checks on each instance of competitive bidding for construction contracts, and conducting special monitoring for the optimization of public sector order-receiving. A special monitoring project during fiscal year 2010 confirmed that proper bidding/order receiving activities had continued from the prior fiscal year without any anomalies, and that Anti-Monopoly Act compliance awareness had spread throughout the relevant sales departments. Furthermore, based on an amicable settlement of a shareholder lawsuit related to allegations of steel bridge construction bid-rigging, MHI in July 2010 established Public Works Business Process Validation and Advisory Committee, which consisted of three independent and respected individuals from outside the corporation. The committee examined the MHI's implementation of a complete compliance system for carrying out public construction. MHI initiatives were assessed to have sufficient countermeasures necessary to avoid collusion in the tendering process. It also proposed a code of conduct for a new era and drew up guidelines. Based on this proposal and other efforts, MHI will continue to take actions that instill a law-abiding mentality in order-receiving activities. In fiscal 2010, no on-site inspections were made, nor were any cease and desist notices issued against MHI from government offices related to violations against compliance laws. 46 Compliance/Fair and Sound Management Secure Safeguarding of Proprietary Information The Information Technology Department and General Affairs Department take the lead in protecting confidential information MHI has built a corporate-wide system for confidential information management, information security management, and personal privacy through the Information Technology Department and General Affairs Department in order to thoroughly safeguard confidential information, such as company management information and technological information, and information related to customers and clients. MHI is working to carry out appropriate information management (including paper documents and electronic data) and improve information security. Using the manual and database to thoroughly protect personal information In conjunction with the enforcement of the Act on the Protection of Personal Information in April 2005, MHI announced its own Privacy Policy and formulated Personal Information Protection Rules and the Personal Information Management Manual. In addition, the company compiled key points related to our business into a digest and distributed it to all employees in an effort to ensure thorough protection of personal information. A personal information database registration system has been developed and used as a means for consolidating the handling of personal data by registering all data owned by respective divisions. Constantly reinforcing measures to protect confidential information MHI has always determined rules for managing confidential information and written documents in its management of confidential information, but as the amount of electronic data increased, MHI decided in 2001 to draw up Standards on Information Security Management. In 2010, they were revised to encompass new information technologies, dangers, and law revisions in an endeavor to more appropriately manage electronic information. Moreover, the Manual on the Management of Confidential Information and How to Prevent Leakage of Confidential Information were created and distributed to improve employee awareness of confidential information management. In the past, computers from employees at MHI and partner companies have been infected with computer viruses and product information has been leaked, causing trouble for clients. Therefore, MHI strictly enforces measures to prevent a recurrence of such incidents by forbidding the use of private personal computers for work and the introduction of software not required for work. Also, as measures against information leaks as a result of theft or loss of computers and external storage media, MHI has provided employees with comprehensive instructions on encrypting data on PCs, external storage media, and e-mail, and has clarified procedures for taking these devices outside the company. MHI instructs both domestic and overseas Group companies on improving administrative rules for information security, information management education, and internal audits in an effort to carry out exhaustive information management throughout the Group. MHI also enters into nondisclosure agreements with subcontractors to ensure comprehensive management of confidential information. 47 Compliance/Fair and Sound Management Implementing employee training to enhance awareness of management of confidential information MHI has incorporated education on protection of personal information into compliance promotion trainings attended by all employees and training by employee level, and also provides e-learning on the overall topic of confidential information and information security to thoroughly educate employees on specific procedures and rules. In fiscal 2010, under the theme, Preventing Leaks of Confidential Information and Case Studies, MHI held training sessions for employees who use computers in-house and employees who utilize computers in domestic Group companies to make them aware of the kinds of situations in which accidents involving information security can easily occur, and to completely prevent the occurrence of such incidents. MHI has also sent English materials to overseas Group companies to help support their education eﬀorts. Continuously assessing the status of security measures through internal audits To safeguard information, it is important to continuously evaluate and reassess the state of security measures being implemented. MHI has prepared a checklist to be used at all departments and regularly holds an internal audit once a year to determine the status of measurements being implemented. As a result, when issues are discovered they are revised and the following year during the audit that revision is assessed, leading to steady improvements. The internal audit in ﬁscal 2010 improved the audit content by increasing the number of questions related to managing conﬁdential information taken outside the company. Future efforts Information security management rules have also been upgraded in overseas Group companies, so in ﬁscal 2010 the internal audit of information management that had been conducted in-house and in domestic Group companies was expanded to overseas Group companies. MHI will continue to run information securitymanagement PDCA cycles throughout the Group in an ongoing eﬀort to improve information management. 48 Compliance/Fair and Sound Management Compliance Education and Increasing Awareness Implementing discussion training based on daily duties Discussion-based training sessions for all employees to promote compliance have been carried out in all worksites since fiscal 2003. Since fiscal 2005, training has been held twice yearly. The training is held with the goal of increasing awareness so that employees can execute proper judgment and actions in accordance with compliance, no matter the situation. In the discussions, employees consider what they would do or what the proper action would be if, for example, they were to feel anxiety over compliance because they are faced with problematic costs or delivery demands, or they are pressured by a supervisor. In fiscal 2010, discussions were held on 27 additional themes based on actual recent cases. Over 31,000 employees (more than 96 percent of all employees) participated. The training sessions will continue with themes based on issues the employees come up against in their daily work. Yearly compliance awareness survey Since fiscal 2004, every year the Compliance Committee conducts a compliance awareness survey. In fiscal 2010, a questionnaire was sent to 9,935 employees (a random sample of approximately 30 percent of all employees) of whom 8,601 (86.6 percent) responded. About 97 percent of them indicated that they are aware of compliance. The indicators, level of compliance awareness, violation potential, recognition of the MHI Compliance Guidelines, and workplace environment regarding compliance have all risen for the third consecutive year, confirming that the outcomes of compliance actions are improving and that the awareness of compliance among employees is steadily growing. The company will continue to conduct survey-style research to confirm the level of compliance awareness among employees. Number of participants at compliance promotion trainings (Note) Number of participants over the past three years 49 Compliance/Fair and Sound Management Participation rates for compliance promotion training (Note) Training sessions have been held twice a year (first and second halves) since fiscal 2005. Figures represent the average participation rates for the first and second halves. Results of Compliance Awareness Survey How much are you aware of compliance? Does your workplace atmosphere allow you to point out cases of compliance violations? 50 Compliance/Fair and Sound Management A Word from an Employee Training sessions that include specific case examples helped me realize the importance of preventing information leaks. Harumi Hazaka Administration Section, Marine Diesel Engine Department, Marine Machinery & Engine Division, Power Systems In fiscal 2010, I attended training sessions on transactions with foreign countries, managing corporate secrets, and the Worker Dispatching Law. For Power Systems Headquarters to globally expand business, complying with export laws and handling confidential information is crucial. Attending the training strengthened my resolve to tackle business with a greater awareness of legal compliance. In particular, in the lecture on Measures to Prevent Information Leaks, I was able to hear about specific instances of risk and impacts related to actual incidents. I was reminded of the importance of taking thorough precautions to prevent information leaks in my everyday work. 51 Environmental Management/Report on Environmental Initiatives Environmental Management Promotion System Promotion of environmental management by a company-wide committee and promotion entities at each works MHI established the Environmental Committee, chaired by the director in charge of the environment, to plan and propose annual environmental actions for the entire company. Decisions are conveyed to the entire company and all Group companies. Environmental Committees established at each works promote policies and conduct environmental management corresponding to the specific features of each works. In addition, Environmental Liaison Conferences for individuals in charge of the environment at the Head Office and each works and Energy Conservation Liaison Conferences, where energy and CO2 reduction measures are discussed, are held. Various other environmental activities take place such as the Energy Conservation Sectional Meeting and Zero Emission Sectional Meeting, whose members include section chiefs and under at each works. In fiscal 2010, the company-wide Environmental Committee formulated a promotional plan that is being implemented throughout MHI to upgrade air-conditioners as part of CO 2 reduction measures based on our Business Plan. Basic Policy on Environmental Matters (Established 1996) As clearly laid out in provision 1 of its creedWe strongly believe that the customer comes first and that we are obligated to be an innovative partner to society. -MHI believes its primary purpose is to contribute to society through its R&D, manufacturing and other business activities. Accordingly, in the performance of its business activities the company shall embrace the awareness that it is an integral member of society and, in all aspects of its business activities, it will strive to reduce burden on the environment and shall devote its comprehensive technological capabilities to the development of technologies and products that will protect the environment, as its way of contributing to the development of a sustainable society. Action Guidelines (Established 1996) 1. Accord high priority to environmental protection within company operations, and take steps company-wide to protect and enhance the environment. 2. Clarify roles and responsibilities regarding environmental protection by developing an organized structure to deal with environmental protection matters, defining environment-related procedures, etc. 3. Strive to alleviate burden on the environment in all aspects of company business activitiesfrom product R&D and design to procurement of raw materials, manufacture, transport, usage, servicing and disposal-through pollution prevention, conservation of resources, energy saving, waste reduction, reuse and recycling. 4. Strive to develop and provide advanced, highly reliable, wholly proprietary technologies and products that will contribute to solving environmental and energy problems. 5. Strive continuously to improve and enhance environmental protection activities not only by fully complying with environmental laws and regulations but also, when necessary, by establishing, implementing and evaluating independent standards and setting environmental goals and targets. 6. In the performance of business activities overseas and exportation of products, pay full attention to impact on the local natural and social environments and strive to protect those environments; also, become actively involved in technological cooperation overseas in matters of environmental protection. 7. Take steps to raise environmental awareness among all employees through environmental education, etc., undertake activities to provide environment-related information to the public, and proactively make environment-enhancing contributions to society. 52 Environmental Management/Report on Environmental Initiatives Environmental Management Structure Promoting midand long-term targets for the entire Group The MHI Group formulated the MHI Group midand long-term environmental targets, which set common targets for all Group companies in April 2008. Under this plan, special focus is on reducing CO2 emission by an average of 3 percent between 2008 and 2012 compared to fiscal 2007; promoting zero emissions; and acquiring, maintaining and renewing certifications such as ISO environmental management. At our Environmental Meeting with Group companies held in fiscal 2010, each company confirmed efforts to incorporate the aforementioned midand long-term targets into its own environmental management program and promote their implementation. We will continue to work to achieve those targets and promote activities as a Group. Environmental Audits at All Works in Japan MHI has been conducting environmental audits of works at all of its 13 headquarters, divisions and works in Japan since fiscal 2007. The purpose of the audits is to ensure compliance with environmental laws and regulations and to conduct physical, on-site verification of operational conditions. Audit teams consisting of auditors from works other than those being audited perform their audit and then report results and improvements to the Environmental Committee, which are then shared across the company. In fiscal 2010, we conducted audits at four locations namely the Air-Conditioning & Refrigeration Systems Headquarters, Machine Tool Division, Iwatsuka Area (Note1) and Nagasaki Shipyard & Machinery Works. They affirmed that indications made during the previous audits were corrected appropriately and that steps were taken to improve the level of management. (Note1) Iwatsuka Area is the collective name for the Iwatsuka Area Management Department of the Machinery & Steel Structures Headquarters, Iwatsuka District of General Machinery & Special Vehicles Headquarters, Iwatsuka Plant of Machine Tool Division, Nagoya Research & Development Center, Mitsubishi Heavy Industries Food & Packaging Machinery Co., Ltd. and Mitsubishi Heavy Industries Plastic Technology Co., Ltd. 53 Environmental Management/Report on Environmental Initiatives Initiating Environmental Meetings with Group Companies Environmental Meetings have been held since fiscal 2007 to unify environmental management across the entire MHI Group. The meetings identify problems and support the study of improvements and the exchange of information related to the environment, with the primary goal of ensuring the compliance of Group companies and preventing environmental pollution. In fiscal 2010, MHI held Environmental Meetings at 15 domestic Group companies, including 10 companies of our Group which independently acquired the international standard certification for environmental management system ISO 14001; 4 companies which acquired the same certification within MHI work's ISO 14001 accreditation scope; and 1 domestic Group company which has not acquired Environmental ISO or other certifications. In addition, MHI gathered the 15 Group companies that held Environmental Meetings in fiscal 2010 under one roof on February 18, 2011 for a Domestic Group Company Environmental Liaison Conference where members shared the positive examples they learned from their respective Environmental Meetings. Hereafter, MHI will conduct environmental activities for the Group companies located in the MHI works based on the policies of each works, and for the other Group companies promote the attainment of midand long-term environmental targets common throughout the MHI Group. MHI will strive to enhance the level of environmental activities Group-wide. 54 Environmental Management/Report on Environmental Initiatives Establishing and Operating an Environmental Management System Based on its Own Standards Establishing two unique standards that are compliant with ISO and EcoAction 21 MHI is promoting the introduction of an Environmental Management System to all companies across the group. With a view to reducing costs, MHI introduced two of its own standards, M-EMS and M-EMS EcoAction, which are based on the international environmental standard ISO 14001 and the Japanese guideline EcoAction 21. In fiscal 2010, 1 company (1 site) in Japan and 2 companies (2 sites) overseas newly acquired environmental ISO and other certifications, bringing MHI to a total of 91 out of 120 domestic companies and 27 out of 114 overseas companies which have acquired certifications. Fostering environmental awareness for each every employee through stratified environmental training Each works formulates its own environmental education curriculum based on e-learning and other methods to provide environmental education to employees. In addition to the internal environmental auditor training program organized by our Head Office, specialized training that deals with daily management procedures and handling emergencies also takes place for employees doing painting tasks and handling dangerous materials. Registered ISO 14001 Internal Auditors (as of April 1, 2011) FY 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Number 593 684 687 815 847 980 55 Environmental Management/Report on Environmental Initiatives Preserving Biodiversity Breeding program for Japanese honeybees in danger of extinction MHI promotes biodiversity preservation activities positioned on its Basic Policy on Environmental Matters and Action Guidelines and CSR Action Guidelines which include the concepts of the Ministry of the Environment's Guidelines for Private Sector Engagement in Biodiversity and the Japan Federation of Economic Organizations' Biodiversity Declaration. For example, in fiscal 2010 at the Nagoya Aerospace Systems Works, we started an endangered Japanese honeybee breeding program inspired by the honeycomb structure of airplanes and began tending to honeybees in beehives kept in the Works. Breeding Japanese honeybees 56 Environmental Management/Report on Environmental Initiatives Controlling and Improving Response to Potential Environmental Impact Risks Clarifying the risks at each works and addressing them through daily The company has prepared and uses an ISO-based manual for each works, encompassing such issues as risk identification methods, daily management procedures and contingency plans. At each works, emergency response drills are carried out at least once yearly to confirm the effectiveness of response procedures for emergencies such as oil spills and earthquakes. We are also revising annually our risk extraction and evaluation methods for environmental issues based on the ISO Manual. In the event of any crisis in any plant, the company's in-house crisis management information system is prepared to quickly convey information to the President. Remediation of contaminated soil and groundwater In instances where MHI sells or modifies land, it reports in advance to the relevant local government authorities, local communities or their associations under the Soil Contamination Countermeasures Law and applicable local regulations, while thoroughly investigating and identifying any contamination present in the soil or groundwater. One such case was the 2006 discovery of VOC (Volatile Organic Compounds) contamination during the sale of the vacant lots where the old Taiko Plant used to stand in Higashi-ku, Nagoya City. At three areas, we conducted decontamination measures following the instructions of Nagoya City officials that resulted in the passing of statutory criteria for two years straight by all three lots. In November 2010, we completed soil and groundwater decontamination efforts and submitted to Nagoya City a notice of completion of soil pollution dispersion measures, which that city accepted. Promoting green purchasing MHI formulated its internal green purchasing policy in March 2002 to systematically promote the purchasing of raw materials, components and products that contribute to the reduction of the environmental burden with the aim of building a circular-flow economy and society. Based on this, we urge the purchasing of office goods, etc. that place the lowest burden possible on the environment. With an eye on the goal of 'green' purchasing for 90 percent of our annual volume and 95 percent of cash outflows for purchasing, the result for the latter in fiscal 2010 was 92.8 percent. We will continue to promote green purchasing. 57 Environmental Management/Report on Environmental Initiatives Status of Incidents and Legal Violations Relating to the Environment Thoroughly implementing preventive measures after incidents of wastewater overflow In June 2009, we discovered that the hydrogen ion concentrations in water emitted from the comprehensive wastewater treatment facility at the Air-Conditioning & Refrigeration Systems Headquarters, Matsusaka Plant (Matsusaka City, Mie Prefecture) exceeded standard levels. We then formulated company-wide preventive measures including inspections of wastewater treatment facilities and confirmation of capability to deal with emergency countermeasures. As a result, there were no cases of wastewater exceeding standard levels in fiscal 2010. 58 Environmental Management Systems Adopted at MHI and Its Subsidiaries  As of April 1, 2011 ISO 14001 certification at MHI works, plants and research & development centers MHI Group companies adopting M-EMS (based on ISO 14001) Location or company name Date of issue (or registration) Location or company name Date of issue (or registration) Yokohama Machinery Works Oct. 31, 1997 MHI Power Systems Inspection Technologies, Ltd., Yokohama Division Apr. 25, 2005 Nagasaki Shipyard & Machinery Works May 22, 1998 Ryoin Co., Ltd., Shinagawa Branch Apr. 26, 2005 Domestic Takasago Machinery Works Jun. 26, 1998 Mitsubishi Heavy Industries Air-Conditioning & Refrigeration Systems Corporation May 13, 2005 Nagoya Air-Conditioning & Refrigeration Machinery Works Nov. 20, 1998 Mitsubishi Heavy Industries Engine Systems Co., Ltd. Jul. 12, 2005 MHI sites and plants Sagamihara Machinery Works May 21, 1999 Aomori Daiya Co., Ltd. Jul. 12, 2008 Mihara Machinery Works Sep. 3, 1999 Kagoshima Daiya Co., Ltd. Jul. 12, 2008 Hiroshima Machinery Works Sep. 30, 1999 OverMitsubishi Engine North America, Inc. Jan. 19, 2007 Shimonoseki Shipyard & Machinery Works Nov. 24, 1999 seas MLP U.S.A., Inc. Jan. 19, 2007 Nagoya Guidance & Propulsion Systems Works Dec. 18, 1999 Kobe Shipyard & Machinery Works Feb. 18, 2000 Iwatsuka Plant Mar. 17, 2000 MHI Group companies M-EMS EcoAction (based on EcoAction 21) Ritto Machinery Works Dec. 28, 2000 Location or company name Date of issue(or registration) Environmental & Chemical Plant Division (Yokohama) Jun. 29, 2001 Mitsubishi Heavy Industries Transportation Equipment Engineering & Service Co., Apr. 20, 2005 Nagoya Aerospace Systems Works Oct. 1, 2003 Ltd., Transportation Works Division, Domestic Service Division Head Office Apr. 6, 2006 Ryoin Co., Ltd., Sagamihara Branch Apr. 25, 2005 Nagasaki Research & Development Center Aug. 21, 2006 Shunjusha Ltd. Apr. 26, 2005 MHI Research & Advanced Technology Research Center Nov. 9, 2006 MHI Sagami High-tech, Ltd. May 9, 2005 Yokohama Research & Development Center Nov. 9, 2006 Ryosen Engineers Co., Ltd. May 10, 2005 Domestic Hiroshima Research & Development Center (Hiroshima) Aug. 2, 2007 Hiroshima Dia System Co., Ltd. May 11, 2005 development centers Hiroshima Research & Development Center (Mihara) Dec. 5, 2006 MHI Marine Engineering, Ltd. May 16, 2005 Nagoya Research & Development Center Dec. 26, 2006 Churyo Engineering Co., Ltd. May 16, 2005 Takasago Research & Development Center Mar. 9, 2007 Ryoin Co., Ltd., Yokohama Branch, Minatomirai area May 16, 2005 MHI Aerospace Systems Corp. Jul. 12, 2005 Group companies that acquired ISO 14001 certifications independently MDS Corporation Jul. 22, 2005 Location or company name Date of issue (or registration) Ryosei Service Co., Ltd. Jun. 10, 2009 MHI Solution Technologies Co., Ltd. Aug. 28, 1998 Diamond Travel Co., Ltd. Mar. 1, 2010 Mitsubishi Agricultural Machinery Co., Ltd. Jul. 24, 2001 Nagoya Ryoju Estate Co., Ltd. Mar. 14, 2002 Nishinihon Ryoju Estate Co., Ltd. Jul. 12, 2002 Group companies within the scope of ISO 14001 accreditation of MHI works and plants Chubu Jukan Operation Co., Ltd., Head Office Jan. 13, 2004 Date of issue Names of works and plants which Location or company name Ryoin Co., Ltd., Printing Division, Tokyo Plant (including Head Office and Chubu Plant) Apr. 23, 2004 (or registration) acquired ISO14001 Shimonoseki Ryoju Estate Co., Ltd. Mar. 14, 2005 Mitsubishi Heavy Industries Plastic Technology Co., Ltd. Apr. 1, 2000 Iwatsuka Plant Ryoju Estate Co., Ltd. Mar. 17, 2005 Ryoin Co., Ltd., Nagoya Branch Oct. 22, 2004 Nagoya Aerospace Systems Work Mitsubishi Heavy Industries Food & Packaging Machinery Co., Ltd. Mar. 17, 2005 MHI Aerospace Production Technologies, Ltd. Oct. 22, 2004 Nagoya Aerospace Systems Work Seibu Jukan Operation Co., Ltd. , Head Office Mar. 22, 2005 Diamond Air Service Incorporation Oct. 22, 2004 Nagoya Aerospace Systems Work Domestic Kusakabe Co., Ltd. Mar. 24, 2005 Ryoin Co., Ltd., Shimonoseki Branch Nov. 22, 2004 Shimonoseki Shipyard & Machinery Works Tamachi Building Co., Ltd. Mar. 25, 2005 Kanmon Dock Service, Ltd. Nov. 22, 2004 Shimonoseki Shipyard & Machinery Works Hiroshima Ryoju Estate Co., Ltd. Apr. 9, 2005 Shimonoseki Ryo-Jyu Engineering Co., Ltd. Nov. 22, 2004 Shimonoseki Shipyard & Machinery Works Mitsubishi Heavy Industries Environmental & Chemical Engineering Co., Ltd. (Head Office and Branch Office) Apr. 12, 2004 Ryoin Co., Ltd., Nagoya Nishi Branch Jan. 6, 2005 Iwatsuka Plant Mitsubishi Heavy Industries Environmental & Chemical Engineering Co., Ltd. (Engineering Division) Feb. 17, 2005 MHI Machine Tool Engineering Co., Ltd. Feb. 25, 2005 Ritto Machinery Works Ryoju Cold Chain Co., Ltd. Apr. 22, 2005 Ryoin Co., Ltd., Ritto Branch Feb. 25, 2005 Ritto Machinery Works Mitsubishi Heavy Industries Precision Casting Co., Ltd. May 11, 2005 MHI Aero Engine Service Co., Ltd. Apr. 11, 2005 Nagoya Guidance & Propulsion Systems Works Tokiwa Machinery Works Ltd. May 18, 2005 MHI Logitec Company Limited Apr. 11, 2005 Nagoya Guidance & Propulsion Systems Works Jukan Operation Co., Ltd., Head Office Aug. 1, 2005 MHI Diesel Service Engineering Co., Ltd. May 12, 2005 Kobe Shipyard & Machinery Works MHI Aerospace Logitem Co., Ltd. Jan. 5, 2007 Nuclear Plant Service Engineering Co., Ltd. May 12, 2005 Kobe Shipyard & Machinery Works Mitsubishi Heavy Industries Air-Conditioning & Thermal Systems Corporation, System Production Department Sep. 14, 2007 Sanshin-Tec. Ltd. May 12, 2005 Kobe Shipyard & Machinery Works Mitsubishi Heavy Industries Bridge & Steel Structures Engineering Co., Ltd., Chiba Plant Mar. 25, 2010 Mitsubishi Heavy Industries Parking Co., Ltd. May 14, 2005 Yokohama Machinery Works Mitsubishi Heavy Industries-Haier (Qingdao) Air-Conditioners Co., Ltd. Dec. 14, 1998 Ryoin Co., Ltd., Yokohama Branch, Yokosei area May 14, 2005 Yokohama Machinery Works MHI Equipment Europe B.V. Nov. 9, 2001 Ryoju Estate Co., Ltd., Yokohama Branch May 14, 2005 Yokohama Machinery Works Mitsubishi Caterpillar Forklift Europe B.V. Jul. 25, 2002 MHI Energy & Service Co., Ltd. May 14, 2005 Yokohama Machinery Works Mitsubishi Heavy Industries Climate Control Inc. Jun. 12, 2003 MHI Power Systems Inspection Technologies, Ltd., May 14, 2005 Takasago Machinery Works Thai Compressor Manufacturing Co., Ltd. Jun. 27, 2003 Takasago Division Mitsubishi Power Systems Americas, Inc. Orlando Service Center Feb. 18, 2004 Mitsubishi Heavy Industries Plant Construction Co., Ltd., May 14, 2005 Takasago Machinery Works MHI Automotive Climate Control (Shanghai) Co., Ltd. Jul. 11, 2005 Power Systems Service Headquarters CBC Industrias Pesadas S.A. Dec. 1, 2005 Koryo Engineering Co., Ltd. May 14, 2005 Takasago Machinery Works Mitsubishi Heavy Industries Korea Ltd. Dec. 17, 2005 Ryoin Co., Ltd., Takasago Branch May 14, 2005 Takasago Machinery Works Mitsubishi Heavy Industries-Mahajak Air Conditioners Co., Ltd. Dec. 21, 2005 Nuclear Plant Service Engineering Co., Ltd., Takasago May 14, 2005 Takasago Machinery Works Division Mitsubishi Heavy Industries-Jinling Air-Conditioners Co., Ltd. Jan. 24, 2006 MEC Engineering Service Co., Ltd. Jun. 23, 2005 Hiroshima Machinery Works MHI Machine Tool (Hong Kong) Ltd. Mar. 30, 2006 Hiroshima Ryoju Engineering Co., Ltd. Jun. 23, 2005 Hiroshima Machinery Works Overseas Mitsubishi Heavy Industries, (Hong Kong) Ltd. Apr. 5, 2006 Mitsubishi Heavy Industries Plant Construction Co., Ltd. Jun. 23, 2005 Hiroshima Machinery Works MLP Hong Kong Ltd. May 25, 2006 Mitsubishi-Hitachi Metals Machinery, Inc. Jun. 23, 2005 Hiroshima Machinery Works Mitsubishi Heavy Industries, (Shanghai) Co., Ltd. Jul. 5, 2006 Ryoin Co., Ltd., Hiroshima Branch Jun. 23, 2005 Hiroshima Machinery Works MHI-Pornchai Machinery Co., Ltd. Jul. 17, 2006 Sagami Logistics & Service Co., Ltd. Sep. 13, 2005 Sagamihara Machinery Works Domestic Mitsubishi Heavy Industries India Private Ltd. Dec. 7, 2006 Choryo Senpaku Kouji Co., Ltd. Sep. 22, 2005 Nagasaki Shipyard & Machinery Works Mitsubishi Heavy Industries Singapore Private, Ltd. Jan. 21, 2007 Ryoin Co., Ltd., Nagasaki Branch Sep. 22, 2005 Nagasaki Shipyard & Machinery Works Mitsubishi Heavy Industries America, Inc. Headquarters Oct. 15, 2007 MHI Power Systems Inspection Technologies, Ltd., Mitsubishi Heavy Industries America, Inc. Tire Machinery Division Oct. 15, 2007 Sep. 22, 2005 Nagasaki Shipyard & Machinery Works Nagasaki Division Mitsubishi Caterpillar Forklift America Inc. Dec. 6, 2007 MHI Oceanics Co., Ltd. Sep. 22, 2005 Nagasaki Shipyard & Machinery Works Mitsubishi Heavy Industries (Thailand) Ltd. Dec. 31, 2007 Kowa Kogyo Co., Ltd. Sep. 22, 2005 Nagasaki Shipyard & Machinery Works Mitsubishi Heavy Industries Dongfang Gas Turbine (Guangzhou) Co., Ltd. May 14, 2008 Choryo Control Systems Co., Ltd. Sep. 22, 2005 Nagasaki Shipyard & Machinery Works MHI Equipment Alsace S.A.S Mar. 17, 2009 Choryo Designing Co., Ltd. Sep. 22, 2005 Nagasaki Shipyard & Machinery Works Mitsubishi-Hitachi Metals Machinery South Asia Private Ltd. Jul. 14, 2010 MHI Maritech, Ltd. Sep. 22, 2005 Nagasaki Shipyard & Machinery Works Mitsubishi Power System Europe, Ltd. Oct. 1, 2010 Choryo Software Co., Ltd. Sep. 22, 2005 Nagasaki Shipyard & Machinery Works Mitsubishi Turbocharger Asia Co., Ltd. Dec. 22, 2010 Mitsubishi Heavy Industries Machine Tool Sales Co., Ltd. Jan. 13, 2006 Ritto Machinery Works EcoAction 21 certification at MHI Group companies Ryoju Estate Co., Ltd., Department of Facilities ManageApr. 6, 2006 Head Office ment Service Location or company name Date of issue (or registration) Tamachi Bldg. Co., Ltd., Shinagawa Building ManageDaiya Building Service Co., Ltd. Apr. 21, 2005 Apr. 6, 2006 Head Office ment Center Nuclear Development Co., Ltd. May 30, 2005 MHI Personnel, Ltd. Apr. 6, 2006 Head Office Domestic Ryonichi Engineering Co., Ltd. Oct. 31, 2005 MHI Tourist, Ltd. Apr. 6, 2006 Head Office Kyuusyuu Jyukan Operation Co., Ltd. Head office Jun. 11, 2008 MHI Accounting Service, Ltd. Apr. 6, 2006 Head Office Higashi Chugoku Ryoju Estate Co., Ltd. Oct. 15, 2009 MHI Finance Co., Ltd. Apr. 6, 2006 Head Office Hiroji Center Co., Ltd. Jan. 29, 2010 Daiya PR Co., Ltd. Apr. 6, 2006 Head Office Diamond Air Service Incorporation, Tokyo Office Apr. 6, 2006 Head Office K-EMS certification at MHI Group companies E-Techno, Ltd. May 12, 2006 Kobe Shipyard & Machinery Works Location or company name Date of issue (or registration) Choryo Engineering Co., Ltd. Aug. 21, 2006 Nagasaki Shipyard & Machinery Works Seiryo Engineering Co., Ltd. Dec. 24, 2004 Mitsubishi Heavy Industries Bridge & Steel Structures Kinki Ryoju Estate Co., Ltd. Feb. 23, 2005 Aug. 2, 2007 Hiroshima Machinery Works Engineering Co., Ltd. Mitsubishi Heavy Industries Mechatronics Systems, Ltd. Feb. 23, 2005 MHI Solution Technologies Co., Ltd. Takasago Branch Apr. 9, 2008 Takasago Machinery Works Domestic MHI Nuclear Engineering Co., Ltd. Mar. 24, 2005 Shinryo System Corp. May 1, 2008 Kobe Shipyard & Machinery Works Nuclear Power Training Center, Ltd. Mar. 24, 2005 Nagasaki Diamond Staff Co., Ltd. Jun. 16, 2009 Nagasaki Shipyard & Machinery Works MHI General Services Co., Ltd. Mar. 24, 2005 Nagasaki Ryoko Service Co., Ltd. Jun. 16, 2009 Nagasaki Shipyard & Machinery Works Ryoin Co., Ltd., Kobe Branch Mar. 24, 2005 Ryoin Co., Ltd., Mihara Branch Oct. 15, 2009 Mihara Machinery Works Techno Data Engineering Co., Ltd. Feb. 27, 2006 Ryoju Estate Co., Ltd., Yokohama Building Service Department Oct. 19, 2009 Head Office Energis Co., Ltd. Mar. 23, 2006 Mitsubishi Heavy Industries Compressor Corporation Oct. 14, 2010 Hiroshima Machinery Works Kamakura EcoAction 21 certification at MHI Group companies Mitsubishi Heavy Industries Printing & Packaging Nov. 19, 2010 Mihara Machinery Works Machinery, Ltd. Location or company name Date of issue (or registration) Mitsubishi Heavy Industries Transportation Equipment Nov. 19, 2010 Mihara Machinery Works Domestic Shonan Monorail Co., Ltd. Apr. 4, 2007 Engineering & Service Co., Ltd. 59 Targets and Progress/Report on Environmental Initiatives Targets and Progress Results of Promotional Efforts of Mediumto Long-Term Environmental Targets (Fiscal 2010 Results) MHI led the way among shipbuilders and heavy-equipment manufacturers as one of the first to establish mediumto long-term environmental activity goals in 2002. The following are the results of our promotional efforts for targets ending in fiscal 2010. Despite achieving several targets including ones for waste reduction and zero emissions, we did not achieve a number of others such as VOC reductions. We will continue to conduct activities for those items that were either unattained or whose deadline is fiscal 2012. We are also presently developing our Mitsubishi Heavy Industries Environmental Vision that presents the long-term orientation of our environmental activities geared towards contributing to the realization of a sustainable society through CO2 reductions both during production and product utilization as well as lowering the quantity of resources used and waste produced. Results of Mediumto Long-Term Environmental Target Promotional Efforts = Pass = Fail Item Mediumor long-term goals Progress through FY2010 Evaluation Reduced waste By FY2010, reduce total generated Total emissions: 133,000 generation and waste to 170,000 tons (greater than 20 tons 38.3 percent reduction emissions percent reduction from FY1992 level): from FY1992 level to be achieved by conserving resources and reducing the purchase of materials Reduced landfill By FY2010, achieve zero landfill waste Zero emissions achieved waste disposal disposal at all works through reuse by Nagoya Aerospace and recycling Systems Works (August 2010): Zero emissions achieved by all MHI works, and the environmental target was met. Elimination of z By FY2010, completely eliminate z Replacement gradually equipment lighting ballasts and high-voltage progressing as planned using PCBs equipment using PCBs z The treatment of highand z Request Japan Environmental concentration PCB detoxification Safety Corporation (JESCO) to devices was not treatment render the used transformers, completed by FY2011 condensers and oils harmless now even after outsourcing stored or being used in MHI, tasks to JESCO. toward completing the task by FY2011 (excluding ballasts, smaller equipment and equipment that uses low-concentration PCB) Reduced Zero atmospheric emissions of Atmospheric discharge: emissions of dichloromethane, trichloroethylene and 18.7 tons organochlorides tetrachlorethylene by FY2010: to be 92.9 percent reduction achieved through total management from FY1996 level and reduced release of organochlorides Reduced VOC More than 30 percent reduction of Total emission of xylene, emissions atmospheric emission of VOC with toluene and ethylbenzene: focus on xylene, toluene and 1,881 tons ethylbenzene (reduced by 704 tons Reduced by 17.1 percent 60 Targets and Progress/Report on Environmental Initiatives from 2,268 tons in FY2000 to 1,564 from the FY2000 level tons in FY2010) Reduced CO2 6 percent reduction of the average CO2 emissions: 435,000 emissions from CO2 emission amount for the five tons (FY2013 business years from FY2008 to 2012 (from 7.8 percent reduction from evaluation) activities FY1990 level): to be achieved through FY1990 level reduction efforts at all production plants By FY2010, introduce photovoltaic Total of 2,110 kW facilities capable of generating a total introduced by FY2009 of 2,000 kW More than 13 percent reduction of the Head Office (Shinagawa average CO2 emission amount for the and Yokohama) reduced (FY2013 five years from FY2008 to 2012 (from by 13.9 percent1 from evaluation) FY2005 level): to be achieved through FY2005 level reduction efforts at offices and 1 According to data operations divisions (Head Office, reported to the Tokyo domestic offices and research & Metropolitan Government development centers) and the Bureau of Economy, Trade and Industry Reduced More than 4 percent reduction of FY2010 unit energy energy usage energy consumption in transportation consumption of transport and CO2 in FY2010 (from FY2006 level) by energy is 45.0, 11.2 emissions from promoting efforts to reduce percent lower than the product transportation energy (unit energy FY2006 figure (50.7), thus transportation consumption of FY2006: 50.7 to 48.7 achieving the goal of 5 by FY2010) percent or more in 5 years. Reduced By FY2010, completely replace Emissions in FY2010: 6.6 fluorocarbon potentially ozone-depleting HCFCs tons usage with 100 percent ozone-safe HFCs, etc. Consolidated Ongoing ISO 14001 renewal by Ongoing renewal of ISO environmental domestic works, Head Office, branch 14001 by domestic works management offices and research & development (including research & system centers development centers), Head Office and branch offices Utilization of Promoting effective use of Tabulation of environmental environmental management environmental performance management information systems and disclosure of data, environmental information information accounting, and so forth system was conducted using the database system leading to Promotion of Promoting collection of environmental the information disclosed in consolidated accounting data through use of this report environmental environmental management accounting information system and disclosing information through CSR Report Ongoing Ongoing issuance of CSR Report Issuance of CSR Report issuance of (Social and Environmental Report) that (Social and Environmental Group CSR includes Group company information Report) in June 2010. Report (Social and Environmental) Promotion of Promoting the purchase of Green purchasing rate: 61 Targets and Progress/Report on Environmental Initiatives green environmentally friendly products 92.8 percent purchasing based on the company's own green purchasing guidelines Development Efforts to develop and provide Efforts made to develop and provision of innovative technologies and and provide products that environmentally products that help society reduce address global warming; friendly environmental degradation through including a wide variety of technologies Basic Guideline on Production of high-efficiency power and products Environmentally Friendly generating facilities, Products (established in 2005) photovoltaic facilities, wind Special efforts to develop and power generation systems provide innovative technologies and CO2 recovery systems and products that address global warming and create a low-carbon society 62 Targets and Progress/Report on Environmental Initiatives Fiscal 2011 and 2012 Environmental Targets MHI is promoting the formulation of its Environmental Vision to clarify midto long-term companywide efforts. In order to fully articulate this Vision and in response to the expiration of the commitment period for the Kyoto Protocol in fiscal 2012, we plan to establish new mediumto longterm environmental targets that will start in fiscal 2013. On the other hand, our previous midto long-term targets concluded in fiscal 2010, with a few exceptions, and targets eyed for fiscal 2011 and 2012 will constitute the environmental targets shown below (FY2011 and 2012) under the policy of revising upwards the targets achieved by fiscal 2010 and continuing to work on targets unattained in fiscal 2010. MHI will make a concerted effort to achieve these targets. FY2011 and 2012 Environmental Targets Item Target Concept Realization of a Reduced CO2 6 percent reduction of the average Set as a goal to low-carbon emissions from CO2 emission amount for the five be achieved by society energy business years from FY2008 to 2012 (from FY2012 savings activities FY1990 level): to be achieved through (global warming reduction efforts at all production measures) plants More than 13 percent reduction of the average CO2 emission amount for the five years from FY2008 to 2012 (from FY2005 level): to be achieved through reduction efforts at offices and operations divisions (Head Office, domestic offices and research & development centers) Energy savings More than 5 percent reduction of energy Raise target and CO2 consumption in transportation in FY2012 figures and reductions (from FY2007 level) by promoting efforts continual setting through product to reduce transportation energy (unit because FY2010 transport energy consumption of FY2007: 48.1 to targets were 45.7 by FY2011) attained Form a recyclingReduced waste By FY2012, reduce total generated waste Raise target based society generation and by 40 percent of FY1992 level: to be figures and (waste and water emissions achieved by conserving resources and continual setting resource reducing the purchase of materials because FY2010 countermeasures) targets were attained Reduced By FY2012, reduce landfill waste disposal Raise target landfill waste volume by 98 percent of FY2000 level figures and disposal By FY2012, landfill waste disposal rate to continual setting below 1 percent because FY2010 targets were attained Effective Reduce water consumption by FY2012 to New setting utilization of 9,350,000 tons, a 2 percent reduction of water the average consumption between resources FY2005 and 2007 (9,540,000 tons) Effective Reduce water consumption by FY2012 to New setting utilization of 9,350,000 tons, a 2 percent reduction of water the average consumption between resources FY2005 and 2007 (9,540,000 tons) 63 Targets and Progress/Report on Environmental Initiatives Manage chemical Elimination of Detoxification of high concentration Continual setting substances equipment PCB waste in storage (transformers, because FY2010 (control chemical using PCBs condensers, oils) to be completed by targets were not substances) and FY2015 (including ballasts and smaller attained detoxification equipment) treatment Analysis and confirmation of low PCB devices (low concentration) to be finished by FY2012, complete detoxification by FY2015 Reduced VOC More than 30 percent reduction of Continual setting emissions atmospheric emission of VOC with focus because FY2010 on xylene, toluene and ethyl-benzene in targets were not FY2012 (reduce by 704 tons from 2,268 attained tons in FY2000 to 1,564 tons in FY2012) Aim for zero atmospheric emissions by FY2012 of VOC organochlorinated hazardous air pollutants: dichloromethane, trichloroethylene and tetrachloroethylene Group Consolidated Ongoing ISO 14001 renewal by domestic FY2010 targets environmental environmental works, Head Office, branch offices and attained. management management research & development centers Continuous system setting. Collecting and Collecting environmental information FY2010 targets disclosing of (environmental data and environmental attained. environmental accounting) from environmental Continuous management management information systems and setting. information disclosing information through CSR Reports and other releases Promotion of Promoting the purchase of Continual setting green environmentally friendly products based because FY2010 purchasing on the company's own green purchasing targets were not guidelines (Purchasing rate: 90 percent of attained volume, 95 percent of cash outflow) Development Development and provision of new FY2010 targets and provision products and technology based on our attained. of Basic Guideline on Production of Continuous environmentally Environmentally Friendly Products setting. friendly (formulated in 2005) to help reduce technologies society's environmental burden and products In particular, we will work to develop technology and provide products that are revolutionary and contribute to solving global warming and building a low-carbon society. Form society that Promote We will continue revegetation, alien fish New setting coexists with activities for the removal, building biotopes and breeding nature protection of Japanese honeybees, among other (Preserving biodiversity and activities relating to biodiversity and Biodiversity) nature examine the possibilities for evaluating the effect of our business activities on the preservation of biodiversity as necessary in light of global trends. 64 Material Balance/Report on Environmental Initiatives Material Balance To carry out its business operations, MHI uses various types of energy and resources. We consistently strive to reduce environmental load throughout the lifecycle of a product, from development, design, procurement and manufacture to distribution, on-site installation, usage, servicing and disposal. 65 Environmental Accounting/Report on Environmental Initiatives Environmental Accounting MHI quantitatively monitors investments and costs for protecting the environment as part of the performance reviews of the company's business activities and also calculates the relative benefits of these efforts. The company refers to the Environmental Accounting Guidelines published by the Ministry of the Environment. 7.0 billion yen in investments and 18.1 billion yen in costs Total investments amounted to 7.0 billion yen while total costs were 18.1 billion yen for fiscal 2010. Both figures represented increases over fiscal 2009. Economic advantages valued at 2.5 billion yen were gained during the year, consisting mainly of revenues from recycling and reduced costs for purchasing electricity due to energy savings. Environmental protection costs and economic benefit (non-consolidated) Cost Activities in Investment Cost Category FY2010 2009 2010 2009 2010 1. Production 5,280 6,011 6,723 6,104 activities (1) Pollution Maintenance and 3,590 2,980 4,051 3,097 control operation of wastewater and flue-gas treatment systems (2) Global Energy savings 1,380 2,435 510 432 environmental protection (3) Recycling Reduced waste 310 596 2,162 2,575 generation, recycling 2. Upstream and Recycling of 0 0 10 6 downstream costs household electrical appliances and container packaging 3. Management Development of 22 224 1,222 957 activities environmental management systems, ISO Office, publication of MHI Social & Environmental Report 4. R&D Development of 937 475 7,204 10,399 environmentally friendly products 5. Public and Support of 6 3 285 444 social activities environmental protection initiatives, greening activities 6. Environmental Soil remediation 398 274 145 190 66 Environmental Accounting/Report on Environmental Initiatives remediation measures Total 6,643 6,987 15,589 18,100 Cost Activities in Economic benefit Environmental Category FY2010 protection benefit 2009 2010 Description 1. Production 1,522 2,435 activities (1) Pollution Maintenance and 10 Improvement of Reduced control operation of productivity emissions of air wastewater and through renovation and water flue-gas treatment of painting pollutants systems workshops (2) Global Energy savings 188 155 Cost reduction Reduced energy environmental from energy input protection savings (3) Recycling Reduced waste 1,334 2,270 Income derived generation, from recycling, recycling cost reduction from reduced waste generation 2. Upstream and Recycling of 44 39 downstream costs household electrical appliances and container packaging 3. Management Development of activities environmental management systems, ISO Office, publication of MHI Social & Environmental Report 4. R&D Development of Development of environmentally diverse friendly products environmentally friendly products 5. Public and Support of social activities environmental protection initiatives, greening activities 6. Environmental Soil remediation Prevention of oil remediation measures and chemicals spills Total 1,566 2,474 1 Total capital investments in FY2010: 100.6 billion yen. Portion related to the environment: 7.0 billion yen (7.0 percent). 2 Total R&D outlays in FY2010: 100.6 billion yen. Portion related to the environment: 10.9 billion yen (10.8 percent) 67 Countermeasures against Global Warming/Report on Environmental Initiatives Promotion of Energy-saving and CO2 Emission Control Measures CO2 emissions reduction at production plants In fiscal 2010, MHI's CO2 emissions resulting from energy use were 435,000 tons, reduced by 3 percent over the previous year. This is attributable not only to CO2 reduction measures but also to decreased factory operations at many of our plants as a result of the effect of the global recession starting in fall 2008. Compared to our benchmark year of fiscal 1990, this represents a 7.8 percent reduction thus achieving our single-year target decrease of 6 percent. To attain our company-wide target reduction of a 6 percent average against the benchmark over the five-year period (fiscal 2008–2012), the company will make further reductions through such efforts as upgrading to energysaving lighting and air-conditioning as outlined in the CO2 emissions reduction acceleration and enforcement action plan formulated in March 2009, as well as the plan for updating in-house airconditioners formulated in November 2010. Change in CO2 emissions Change in gross energy input (Note1) 1 TJ (terajoule) = 1 trillion joules (1,000,000,000,000 J) Change in electricity purchases 68 Countermeasures against Global Warming/Report on Environmental Initiatives Promoting photovoltaic generation for plants, offices and company dormitories Progress is continuing in MHI's plan to install solar cell panels on office buildings, employee dormitories and other facilities to serve as a power source for such amenities as air-conditioning and lighting. We introduced 2,110 kW of cumulative solar power domestically in fiscal 2009, achieving our company-wide mediumto long-term target of installing over 2,000 kW photovoltaic facilities by fiscal 2010 one year earlier than planned. During fiscal 2010, we introduced a total of 101 kW at each single employee dormitory at our Head Office, General Machinery & Special Vehicle Headquarters, Nagasaki Shipyard & Machinery Works and Kobe Shipyard & Machinery Works. This resulted in cumulative solar power of 121 kW for six dormitories. Solar cell panels introduced at MHI single employee dormitories One million kWh of green energy used annually thanks to wind power generation MHI has contracted with Japan Natural Energy Co., Ltd. (JNE) to purchase 1 M kWh of windgenerated power from JNE each year for a period of 15 years starting April 2002. In fiscal 2010, MHI used 0.481 M kWh of this clean power at its Head Office and 0.481 M kWh at the Mitsubishi Minatomirai Industrial Museum. Green power certificate 69 Countermeasures against Global Warming/Report on Environmental Initiatives Greenhouse gas emissions excluding CO2 emissions from energy use MHI has been compiling data on greenhouse gas emissions (excluding CO2 emissions from energy use) since fiscal 2006 under the system enforced in fiscal 2006 for calculating, reporting and publishing emissions of greenhouse gases. The actual emission record of fiscal 2010 was 2,339 tons. Breakdown of greenhouse gas emissions (excluding CO2 emissions from energy use) Acquisition of approx. 120,000 tons of CO2 emission credits from a CDM project MHI has concluded emission rights purchasing agreements with four projects under Kyoto Mechanisms JI (Joint Implementation) (Note2) and CDM (Clean Development Mechanism) (Note3). These purchasing agreements will help MHI to achieve its target of reducing emissions by an average of 6 percent from the level of fiscal 1990 over a five-year period (fiscal 2008–2012), and will use the purchased emission credits to achieve this. In April 2011, MHI acquired approximately 120,000 tons of emission credits through a CDM hydroelectric power generation project at the Xiadongxia in Fujian Province, China, the agreement for which was signed in 2007. Although these emission credits are being administered in an MHI holding account, they will be transferred to a government retirement account with no penalty provided that the credits are used to achieve targets. Once transferred, the credits will be added to Japan's greenhouse gas reduction volume. (Note2) System in which a company invests in greenhouse gas reduction projects in advanced countries and applies the reduced emissions to achieve its own goals. (Note3) System in which a company invests in greenhouse gas reduction projects in developing countries and applies the reduced emissions to achieve its own goals. A Word from an Employee Energy-savings promoted through monitoring systems Masaichi Honda Safety & Environment Management Section, General Affairs Department, Hiroshima Machinery Works We introduced monitoring systems that enable the visualization of energy usage for each area and piece of equipment inside the six main facilities of the Kanon Plant in June 2010. This allows employees to see how much energy is being used by their computers, thus increasing their awareness of energy conservation. In the future, we will accumulate data on power utilization for each piece of equipment to detect waste and promote energy-saving measures. 70 Countermeasures against Global Warming/Report on Environmental Initiatives Measures to Curb Energy Use in Transport Promotion of energy-conservation in transport through modal shift and load ratio improvement The Revision of Energy Conservation Law requires specified consigners to reduce energy consumption in transport by a total of 5 percent over the five years ending in fiscal 2010. As a company handling cargo transport of over 30 million ton-km per year and hence subject to that Law, MHI worked to promote transportation efficiency though measures such as modal shift and truck load ratio improvement, among others. As a result of the company's efforts, transportation energy consumption in fiscal 2010 was reduced to 45 units by 11.2 percent over fiscal 2006, thus achieving the target set by the Law. We will work to further reduce energy use in transport by implementing more efficient transport practices. Total volume of transportation Energy consumption and CO2 emissions (Note1) 1 GJ (gigajoule) = 1,000 MJ (megajoules) 71 Countermeasures against Global Warming/Report on Environmental Initiatives Energy-saving Activities in Offices Promoting Cool Biz and Warm Biz In addition to Cool Biz in summer (office air-conditioning systems set to 28°C, employees do not need to wear ties) and Warm Biz in winter (office air-conditioning systems set to 20°C, employees are encouraged to bring an extra layer of clothing), the company has implemented diverse energysaving activities. In accordance with power utilization control measures for facilities located within the jurisdiction of Tokyo Electric Power Company enacted as a result of the Great East Japan Earthquake, we are saving power and controlling power utilization at our Head Office, Yokohama Dockyard & Machinery Works and Sagamihara Machinery Works. We also introduced Cool Biz on May 9 in 2011, one month earlier than usual. 72 Countermeasures against Global Warming/Report on Environmental Initiatives CO2 reductions with MHI product usage (FY2010) CO2 reductions with MHI product usage (FY2010) Sector CO2 Basis of calculation Remarks reduction (thousand tons) Power plant 145,809 Estimates based on MHI's Thermal plants (combined, actual delivery record in conventional), nuclear plants, FY2010, compared with photovoltaic, wind turbine and FY1990. geothermal power generation, etc Estimate for nuclear and wind power is based on actual output generated in FY2010 by plants built by MHI. Transportation 1,984 Estimates based on MHI's Ships, transportation systems, etc. actual delivery record in FY2010, compared with FY1990. Mass produced 1,312 Estimates based on MHI's Air-conditioners, centrifugal chillers, items actual delivery record in gas engines, forklift trucks, etc. FY2010, compared with FY1990. MHI is working to create a low-carbon society across a broad spectrum of fields, including: large-scale power generation technologies such as thermal power generation plants and nuclear power plants, power generation systems that utilize wind, solar and other renewable energies, vessels and transportation systems for improving the efficiency of the transportation sector, and high energy-saving hybrid forklifts and air-conditioning systems that use heat pump technology. CO2 reduction from the fiscal 1990 level through the use of the company's products in fiscal 2010 came to about 150 million tons. The power generation sector, which accounts for nearly 30 percent of CO2 emissions, has the potential for reducing emissions by about 4,500 million tons, assuming Japan's latest technologies at the top international level would be deployed across the world. Going forward, MHI will continue to conduct business by maximizing its collective strengths to further reduce the global environmental load. CO2 reduction potential assuming MHI products are introduced globally As an example, we estimated the potential CO2 reduction if MHI products were introduced globally. We will continue working so that MHI's activities may serve to realize further contributions in the area of global warming. 73 Resource Conservation and Waste Management/Report on Environmental Initiatives Curbing Waste Generation, Release and Disposal Attaining zero emission at all sites In fiscal 2010, MHI's waste output was 133,000 tons, well below our stated midto long-term target of reducing the volume of the company's waste to less than 170,000 tons by fiscal 2010. In addition, we achieved zero emissions at the Nagoya Aerospace Systems Works in August 2010, realizing our goal of zero emissions at all 13 sites by fiscal 2010. Sites that have achieved zero emissions Mar.01 Yokohama Dockyard & Machinery Works Mar.04 Takasago Machinery Works Nov.04 General Machinery & Special Vehicle Headquarters Feb.06 Nagoya Guidance & Propulsion Systems Works Aug.06 Air-Conditioning & Refrigeration Systems Headquarters Sep.06 Machine Tool Division, Iwatsuka Area May.07 Paper & Printing Machinery Division (including Transportation Systems & Advanced Technology Division, Mihara) Jan.08 Shimonoseki Shipyard & Machinery Works Oct.08 Industrial Machinery Business, Technology & Solutions Division Jan.09 Nagasaki Shipyard & Machinery Works Apr.09 Kobe Shipyard & Machinery Works (including Transportation Systems & Advanced Technology Division, Kobe) Aug.10 Nagoya Aerospace Systems Works Waste generation/landfill disposal volumes and recycling rate 74 Resource Conservation and Waste Management/Report on Environmental Initiatives Waste generation by material Water usage and discharge Paper usage 75 Resource Conservation and Waste Management/Report on Environmental Initiatives Topics Zero emissions at Nagoya Aerospace Systems Works attained in fiscal 2010 At Nagoya Aerospace Systems Works, we strengthened waste separation efforts and promoted activities to curb waste generation in order to attain the target of zero emissions in fiscal 2010. Despite the fact that the recycling of wastes generated from the special processing of aircraft components is a difficult task, our efforts in collaboration with intermediary waste management operators to improve disposal methods and find new means to reconvert waste into resources resulted in the attainment of zero emissions in August 2010. The Works will continue its efforts to maintain zero emissions and endeavor to reduce waste treatment costs. Employees in charge at the Nagoya Aerospace Systems Works 76 Resource Conservation and Waste Management/Report on Environmental Initiatives Using electronic manifests (e-manifests) Expanding the use of e-manifests MHI is working to realize its policy of introducing e-manifests at all sites including the Head Office over 3 years between fiscal 2009 and 2011. E-manifests are a means to fulfill our responsibility as waste producers to prevent illegal dumping. By digitalizing waste disposal manifests, a better understanding of the flow of outsourced waste disposal can be achieved. MHI introduced a waste management system at all its sites in 2008 that includes management of data such as permissions for waste management operators and their expiry dates. In 2009, all MHI sites registered with the Electronic Manifest System (JWNET), which is stipulated by the Waste Management Act and managed by the Japan Industrial Waste Information Center. Our Kobe Shipyard & Machinery Works began operations using e-manifests in November of that year. In fiscal 2010, JWNET was introduced at seven sites with operations starting thereafter. Plans are underway to introduce JWNET at the remaining seven sites in fiscal 2011 and we are working towards its complete introduction at all sites. Conceptual scheme of e-manifest 77 Management of Chemical Substances/Report on Environmental Initiatives Curbing the Use and Emissions of Chemical Substances through Proper Management and Use of Alternatives Emissions of substances subject to PRTR In fiscal 2010, MHI released a total of 1,948 tons of substances subject to PRTR (Note1) compliance. Roughly 97 percent of these emissions consisted of xylene, toluene and ethylbenzene, which are primarily used in painting and cleaning applications. Although the company is working to reduce these emissions, the task is proving to be a significant challenge, particularly for xylene, which is used for painting ships and its use is typically specified by ship owners. This preference is making it difficult to reduce the use of this substance. However, in fiscal 2010, with the cooperation of ship owners, we were able to replace the paint for three ships whose owners had previously specified the use of paint containing xylene and other toxic substances for water-based paint free of such substances. The adoption of alternative products (water-based paint, etc.) is one of many actual toxic substance reduction activities we are promoting. (Note1) PRTR (Pollutant Release and Transfer Register): The PRTR system requires publication of the sources and emission volume of toxic chemical substances and the amounts of such substances removed from manufacturing plants. The system is provided for under the Pollutant Release and Transfer Register (PRTR) Law. 78 Management of Chemical Substances/Report on Environmental Initiatives Promotion of organochlorides reduction and replacement activities MHI is reducing the use of tetrachloroethylene, trichloroethylene and dichloromethane, which are found in paint removal agents and oil cleaning agents. Atmospheric emissions in fiscal 2010 were reduced by 92.9 percent, 3.3 points lower than the previous fiscal year, however we did not attain our goal of zero atmospheric emissions by fiscal 2010. For dichloromethane, MHI completed an evaluation of replacing its use with non-dichloromethane removal agents in fiscal 2008. The company implemented the required facility improvements for this replacement in fiscal 2009 and will complete this conversion in fiscal 2010. Meanwhile, we are also presently promoting other activities regarding tetrachloroethylene and trichloroethylene centered on selecting and evaluating alternatives and examining possible changes in specifications. MHI is committed to continuing efforts to achieve our goals. Atmospheric emissions of organochlorides Change in HCFC (Note2) emissions (Note2) HCFCs (Hydrochloro-fluorocarbons): The Montreal Protocol that regulates ozone-depleting substances stipulates that the production of these substances must cease by 2020. Voluntary targets for the reduction of VOC atmospheric emissions Emissions of VOC, which are causal agents of photochemical smog, are regulated for facilities that release a given volume of these substances under the Air Pollution Control Law. In fiscal 2008, in addition to legal and regulatory compliance and to further advance its activities for lessening environmental impact, the company set a new voluntary target for reducing atmospheric emissions of VOC in fiscal 2010. The goal of the new target is to decrease atmospheric emissions of VOC by 30 percent from the fiscal 2000 level, focusing on xylene, toluene and ethylbenzene, which are emitted in large volumes. The fiscal 2010 emission volume was 1,881 tons, a 17.1 percent decrease from the fiscal 2000 level. Unfortunately, we have not reached our stated goal. Throughout fiscal 2011, however, we have been promoting concrete reduction efforts including the introduction of countermeasure equipment, such as a VOC disposing device with thermal storage combustion system at the Nagoya Aerospace Systems Works, as well as the promotion of information sharing between MHI works. 79 Management of Chemical Substances/Report on Environmental Initiatives Promotion of outsourced disposal of equipment using PCBs As of March 2006, MHI had already registered the disposal of equipment using PCBs (Polychlorinated biphenyls) either currently in use or stored at its works, with the Japan Environmental Safety Corporation (JESCO), a special entity wholly funded by the Japanese government. The company also signed a consigning contract for disposal in 2007. By fiscal 2010, consigned disposal was effected at 11 sites (Note3). However, according to the Law Concerning Special Measures Against PCB Waste, even equipment using trace amounts of PCBs not disposed by JESCO must be detoxified by July 2016. Therefore, we will examine ways to deal with them during fiscal 2011. MHI achieved its stated goal of completely ceasing operation of equipment using PCBs by the end of fiscal 2010. (Note3) MHI Head Office, Machine Tool Division, Iwatsuka Area, Industrial Machinery Business, Technology & Solutions Division, Takasago Machinery Works, Nagoya Aerospace Systems Works, Nagoya Guidance & Propulsion Systems Works, Nagasaki Shipyard & Machinery Works, Kobe Shipyard & Machinery Works, Air-Conditioning & Refrigeration Systems Headquarters, Transportation Systems & Advanced Technology Division Status of PCB Storage 80 Products and Technologies that Reduce Environmental Impact/Report on Environmental Initiatives Main products and technology in 2010 Delivery to a district cooling plant in Doha, Qatar, of large centrifugal chillers with cooling ratios at world-leading levels MHI received an order for 14 large centrifugal chillers for the district cooling plant for Heart of Doha, a development and regeneration project to transform the old downtown area of Doha, the capital of Qatar. Delivery of the chillers will start in July 2011. Qatar, which is focusing its efforts on culture, education, broadcasting and other fields and reducing its dependence on natural gas and oil, is slated to hold the 22nd FIFA World Cup in 2022. This has created a rush to construct large facilities, which in turn has resulted in a greater demand for air-conditioning equipment. Total cooling capacity for the 14 AART-200EX large centrifugal chillers that MHI started delivering is approx. 29,300 refrigeration tons. With their COP (Note) (Coefficient of Performance) rating of 6.4 and cooling system based on HFC134a which has an Ozone Depletion Potential of zero, the centrifugal chillers used in Doha are lauded as having the best levels of efficiency and environmental performance in the world. (Note) COP (Coefficient of Performance) is the value that indicates cooling/heating capacity (kW) per power consumption (kW). AART-200EX Centrifugal Chiller Order received from Macau government for the construction of its Light Rapid Transit (LRT) system Significant contributions to the elimination of urban traffic congestion and environmental preservation In March 2011, MHI jointly with ITOCHU Corporation received an order for the supply and construction of rolling stock and E&M systems for the Macau Light Rapid Transit (LRT), which is a new infrastructure development project planned by the government of Macau Special Administrative Region. The 20.2 km Macau LRT will run between the boarder gate in the northern area of Macau Peninsula which faces Zhuhai City, Guangdong Province, China and Pac On Ferry Terminal on Taipa Island. Construction is scheduled for completion in February 2015 and operation will start two months thereafter. The Macau LRT is expected to contribute greatly to the elimination of traffic congestion and environmental deterioration resulting from vehicle emissions, which are getting serious as Macau continues to grow at a rapid pace economically based on its flourishing tourism and casino industries. The Automated People Mover (APM) system to be supplied by MHI for Macau LRT boasts high energy savings, recyclability and other environmentally friendly characteristics thanks to its low-noise, low-vibration rubber tires and light aluminum car-body. These characteristics were also highly praised by the Tokyo Waterfront Transit Yurikamome and eventually in June 2010 MHI received an order to supply 108 APM vehicles which are scheduled to be delivered from the fiscal 2013. 81 Products and Technologies that Reduce Environmental Impact/Report on Environmental Initiatives Promotion of development of the next-generation MRJ regional jet with superior environmental compatibility The MRJ (Mitsubishi Regional Jet) developed by Mitsubishi Aircraft Corporation is a nextgeneration, 70 to 90 seat regional jet which offers both top-class operational economy and outstanding cabin comfort. Component manufacturing began in the fall of 2010 with subsequent assembly beginning in April 2011 at MHI's Tobishima Plant. Based on the aircraft development and manufacturing technology fostered by MHI, the MRJ features state-of-the-art aerodynamic design, noise analysis and composite material technologies as well as a cutting-edge engine that reduces fuel consumption by over 20 percent and generates significantly less noise and emissions compared with other regional jets currently in operation. Our intention is to contribute to the enhancement of airline competitiveness and profitability by this operational economy and environmental compatibility. MHI manufactures MRJ's main components, such as fuselage, wing, empennage and the core systems. (c) Mitsubishi Aircraft Corporation Operation test of zero CO2 emission electric bus in Kyoto Kyoto City, as a designated environmental model city, is continuing its efforts to build a more environmentally friendly city. In pursuit of this, Kyoto is promoting the realization of its Walking City: Kyoto general traffic strategy as well as the adoption and diffusion of next-generation vehicles such as Electric Vehicles. It was also selected in fiscal 2010 by the Ministry of Land, Infrastructure, Transport and Tourism for operational testing for a town development project using environmentally friendly vehicles and, subsequently, Kyoto City and MHI jointly conducted an electric bus operation test in February 2011. Features of the electric bus developed and manufactured by MHI include zero CO2 emissions thanks to its lithium-ion rechargeable battery powered motor which cuts 50 tons of CO2 emissions per year compared to a conventional diesel-powered bus, making it a comfortable means of transportation that is friendly to both people and the environment. A single electric bus was test driven by the Kyoto Municipal Transportation Bureau under conditions similar to regular operation that included traffic congestion, etc. to evaluate its possible running time, charging intervals, passenger comfort, effect on pedestrians and other aspects of its driving performance and functionality. Based on the results of the operation test, MHI is going forward with the development of a prototype electric bus for mass production. Additional test runs are planned in fiscal 2012, with the objective being the implementation of electric buses. Electric bus used for operation tests 82 Products and Technologies that Reduce Environmental Impact/Report on Environmental Initiatives Products and technologies that contribute to a low-carbon society Contributing to the realization of a low-carbon society through diverse energies and environmental technologies MHI develops and provides carbon-free energy (alternative energy) sources including nuclear, wind and solar as well as high-efficiency thermal power, energy management services and various traffic and transport systems that contribute to the realization of a low-carbon society. High-efficiency power generation (improving energy efficiency) Combined cycle power plants Steam turbines Gas turbines Boilers Gas turbine Carbon-free energy (alternative energy) Wind PV (Photovoltaic) CSP (Concentrating Solar thermal Power) Geothermal Hydro Biomass Nuclear Wind turbine Energy management (introduction of energy-saving technology and infrastructure) Smart grids Lithium-ion batteries Eco-houses and buildings High-performance heat pumps Organic EL lighting Desalination Waste incineration plants Lithium-ion rechargeable battery 83 Products and Technologies that Reduce Environmental Impact/Report on Environmental Initiatives Transportation systems (modal shift) MRJ (Mitsubishi Regional Jet) Eco-ship High-speed rail, Light Rail Transit (LRT), High Speed Surface Transport (HSST), Automated People Mover (APM) EV, electric buses Intelligent Transport Systems (ITS) Automated People Mover (APM) Hybrid forklifts 84 Commitment to Our Customers/Report on Social Actions Enhancing Product Safety Establishing the Quality Management & Product Safety Planning Center to strengthen safety and quality management systems MHI is continuing to promote product safety activities throughout the company. One example of our efforts started in fiscal 2005, as a Product Safety Project between the Legal Department and the Production System Innovation Planning Department. That project strove to improve instruction manuals and conduct risk assessments to ascertain and reduce areas of risk related to product safety in three product categories: mass and medium-lot manufactured products; built-to-order components; and built-to-order plants. In April 2011, the Quality Management & Product Safety Planning Center was established as part of the Production System Innovation Planning Department in the Technology & Innovation Headquarters. The goal is to firmly establish the activities that have been carried out thus far, and promote the reinforcement of management systems for safety and quality. Nuclear power generation: ongoing efforts to ensure safety at nuclear power plants On August 2004, a break occurred in the MHI-installed secondary piping of Unit 3 in the Mihama power station of Kansai Electric Power Co., Inc. MHI set up the Managing Board for Innovation in the Nuclear Business, chaired by the President, in December 2004. The company is striving to implement continuous internal reforms to prevent accidents and ensure safety at nuclear power plants. Each manufacturing facility thoroughly examines and continuously strives to improve design, manufacturing, and procurement processes as well as the quality management system. At the same time, the Managing Board for Innovation in the Nuclear Business monitors the progress of improvement. The board meeting held in fiscal 2010 confirmed that actions are being taken to share the lessons learned from the accident and ensure they will not be forgotten. It also verified that improvements are being made in quality management activities that include further tightening and boosting of internal audits, and periodic convening of the Design/Manufacturing/QA Liaison Conference. Furthermore, the board affirmed the continuation of various activities in accordance with the goals laid out at the board's inception. In addition, after the accident occurred on March 11 at the Fukushima No.1 Nuclear Power Station, MHI immediately submitted measures to power companies that have PWR plants that should be undertaken if the same incident were to occur. MHI is sparing no effort to support a stable supply of power. Shipbuilding: Endeavoring to prevent the recurrence of accidents and nonconformance through the quality control patrols When designing and constructing vessels, the Classification Society is the organization that approves blueprints, inspects construction and equipment, and conducts the final test run. Vessels that pass these inspections are given a ship's classification. MHI obtains this ship's classification, and the Quality Assurance Department of the Shipbuilding & Ocean Development Headquarters plays a central role in investigating the causes of accidents and nonconformance that have occurred in vessels previously constructed. Measures are taken to prevent recurrences and feedback is given to the Design and Construction Department. In addition, quality control patrols have been implemented based on ISO 9001 to confirm that those measures are in fact being carried out. MHI strives to ensure the safety of its vessels. 85 Commitment to Our Customers/Report on Social Actions Aircraft: Endeavoring to ensure aircraft safety through education and training, and promotion of safety measures Based on the Aircraft Safety Policy established in 1991, Nagoya Aerospace Systems Works has given its highest priority to assurance of aircraft safety. Unfortunately, in 2000 there was an emergency landing accident involving an MH2000 helicopter, and in 2007 an F-2 jet fighter crashed and burst into flames. MHI understands the gravity of accidents, and to prevent such accidents from occurring again, MHI conducts education and training for our employees and the employees of partner companies in order to ensure safety awareness. MHI also has upgraded its protocol for handling accidents, and has put several types of safety measures in place to prevent a reoccurrence of the mechanical connections that caused the F-2 jet fighter accident. Safety measures are enhanced by verifying the promotion of these actions at safety/quality assurance reform meetings that are held weekly and attended by the general manager at the manufacturing sites. MHI will continue to carry out these actions as it strives to improve safety of aircraft manufacturing and maintenance. GS Comment: the corporate and the corporation are unnecessary and potentially confusing. It would be clearer to just use MHI. Also, we should avoid descriptions such as faulty. Transportation Systems: Ensuring the safety of transportation systems based on quality management systems MHI is working to develop various transportation systems with a high potential for use in public settings, such as fully automated, unmanned vehicles and next-generation trams for use in airports and cities in Japan and abroad. To ensure that such transportation systems are safe, MHI has developed designs, equipment procurement, manufacturing, and local construction methods based on ISO 9001 and MHI's own quality policies. Every year, quality policies are reevaluated and the effectiveness of quality management systems is closely scrutinized. In addition, MHI is constructing a framework for sharing information among relevant parties on issues such as revisions made to laws and regulations pertaining to railways. Also, in overseas projects MHI closely examines local safety standards from the initial design stage. In addition MHI in an effort to further improve safety awareness, held lectures on applicable laws and ordinances and on general safety issues throughout fiscal year 2010. Air-Conditioners: Implementing safety verifications in every stagedevelopment, usage, and disposal, based on design management standards Air-Conditioning & Refrigeration Systems Headquarters established design management standards in 1994 to ensure the safety of air-conditioners. To that end, when developing a product, quality check sheets and other measures are used to verify that products, when properly used, will not cause harm to people or property through things such as harmful materials, explosions or fire at any stage, from development through usage and disposal. GS Comment: We should add the qualified when properly used to avoid having the above statement be interpreted as an unconditional guarantee of the safety of these products. Any product can be dangerous no matter how well designed or manufactured. In fiscal 2010, the department participated in the corporate-wide Product Safety Taskforce, and received instruction from key MHI individuals regarding product safety for centrifugal chillers and ground transportation refrigeration units. In the past, air-conditioners were primarily subjected to electric safety checks, but from now on, MHI will strive for product development that takes equipment safety, environmental safety, and the safety of electric controls into consideration as global concerns and regulations become more stringent. 86 Commitment to Our Customers/Report on Social Actions Establishing an Accident Exhibit and Materials Room to educate people on the prevention of product accidents The MHI Group compiled examples of past product-related accidents and opened the Accident Exhibit and Materials Room in April 2010 to introduce those accidents through panels and other displays. Safety and quality have the highest priority for the MHI Group, whose very livelihood is based on manufacturing. That importance is made known to all employees involved in the development, production, and after-service operations of MHI Group products. The exhibit was opened so that it would play a role in the prevention of accidents and oversights. Displays include news articles and video coverage of major accidents, such as the fire that broke out on the cruise ship, DIAMOND PRINCESS. Approximately 7,000 people have visited since its opening, and approximately 1,150 new employees and young technicians learned about case examples of accidents. In fiscal 2011, workshops will be offered to young administrative staff, and new chief and assistant managers to increase opportunities for staff to gain a deeper understanding of the importance of safety and quality. Displays inside the exhibit room Entrance to the Accident Exhibit and Materials Room Continuously strengthening QMS created for products MHI has created a quality management system (QMS) to offer products that are safe and of assured high quality. As of March 2011, all manufacturing sites in Japan have obtained ISO 9001 certification, and approximately 90 percent of domestic and overseas group-company manufacturing sites have been certified. In addition, each manufacturing site created the optimum QMS which was specific to the character of the products produced there and continue to improve upon it. Also, MHI understands the reality that there will be complaints from customers about products, so the Quality Assurance Department has played a central role in gathering technology and expertise from all companies to review and improve upon QMS process issues and reinforcement measures for each product. 87 Commitment to Our Customers/Report on Social Actions A Word from a Stakeholder Expectations of MHI Koichi Higashi Manager Rolling Stock Department, Tram Division, Hiroshima Electric Railway Co., Ltd, The objective of the Hiroshima Electric Railway Co. is the development and enhancement of the Hiroshima city area transportation network. Working within the urban planning framework, the Hiroshima Electric Railway Co. intends to improve the existing Light Rail Transit (LRT) (Note1). The LRT system offers both high levels of punctuality and a low journey time. Currently, the citizens of Hiroshima and visitors to the city enjoy this environmentally friendly system with the Light Rail Vehicle (LRV) (Note2) called the Green Mover max. This is a 100 percent lowfloor vehicle utilizing bogie technology developed by Mitsubishi Heavy Industries. It is the first 100 percent low-floor LRT produced in Japan. The Green Mover max is a barrier free train with a flat floor, which is at the same height as the station platform, allowing easy access for both boarding and leaving passengers. We wish that Mitsubishi Heavy Industries will continue to develop a more advanced low-floor LRT concept to allow a next generation public transport system that fits seamlessly with people, cities and the environment. This is the system we envisage as we look forward to building the city of the future. (Note1) LRT: Light Rail Transit (Note2) LRV: Light Rail Vehicle 100 percent low floor Tram Green Mover max 88 Commitment to Our Customers/Report on Social Actions Enhancing Customer Satisfaction (CS) Pursuing products and services that can be trusted from the prioritized customer point of view One statement of the MHI creed is: We strongly believe that the customer comes first and that we are obligated to be an innovative partner to society. Therefore, the company's top priority is to always place itself in the customer's shoes and meet their expectations by providing products and services with high added value. Based on this approach, each headquarters and division listens carefully to the market and customer feedback and strives to improve CS in accordance with their respective business operations. In addition, MHI implements basic CS and marketing training as well as other programs with the belief that improving employee awareness is essential for establishing a customer-oriented corporate culture. Through these activities, MHI will continuously work to provide products and services that satisfy customers. Basic CS training Promoting advertising activities that comply with relevant laws and regulations MHI established the Corporate Communication Department to promote advertising activities based on MHI business plans that target stakeholders in all global regions. As MHI moves ahead with its activities, the department authenticates facts so that customers do not receive the wrong impression, and endeavors to abide by provisions in related laws and industries. It also keeps in close contact with administration departments, all business Headquarters, and even overseas works and Group companies to develop advertising activities based on a unified concept. After advertising is run, the department assesses the improvement in recognition level in each form of media and the promulgation of the corporate image. In fiscal 2010, in addition to running ads in national newspapers and magazines in Japan, as well as the British Financial Times overseas, the department also placed advertisements in public transportation facilities in Japan and overseas. 89 Commitment to Our Customers/Report on Social Actions Implementing technical support as an aspect of preventative maintenance Since 1999, MHI has maintained a high operational rate for thermal power plants (gas turbines) delivered both in and outside of Japan and provided technical support to prevent problems. This is a paid service for observing and supporting the operations of gas turbine plants in real time, around the clock, 365 days a year, from remote monitoring centers established in two locations, one in Japan and one outside of Japan. We are working to prevent the occurrence of problems by applying monitoring diagnostic capabilities that draw upon over ten years of accumulated operational data. Also, by automatization of abnormality diagnosis that utilize Taguchi method, any suspension of operations is kept as short as possible by quickly detecting plant anomalies and immediately implementing troubleshooting procedures. As of April 2011, we are supporting three plants in Japan and 28 plants overseas, thereby safeguarding the stable power generation operations of our customers. Remote monitoring center Promoting Nuclear Power PA Activities In an effort to deepen its understanding about the need for and safety of nuclear power generation, MHI has promoted PA activities since 1988, such as accepting visitors in our works that manufacture nuclear power equipment and publishing the magazine, Atom Power. The Kobe Shipyard & Machinery Works, where nuclear power equipment is manufactured, offers plant tours at the request of clients and partner companies. It also provides enjoyable opportunities for learning about energy through hands-on activities targeting elementary school students. Approximately 3,000 guests participated in fiscal 2010, sharing comments such as, After touring the production sites, I deeply understood how advanced technology is used to manufacture nuclear power equipment. MHI will continue to offer information and tours to build up trust in nuclear power. (Note) Nuclear Power PA (Public Acceptance) activities: Activities conducted to encourage a clearer understanding of nuclear power 90 Commitment to Our Customers/Report on Social Actions A Word from an Employee Maintaining the relationship of trust we have with our customers through persistent efforts Hideharu Sato Engine Machinery Team No.2 Manufacturing Engineering Section Guidance & Propulsion Production Department Guidance & Propulsion Division Aerospace Systems I am in charge of aircraft engine overhaul and other equipment. Although we had received a lot of business in fiscal 2010, we were able to complete our work in compliance with customer wishes. We also worked together with customers to reduce repair expenses, and were successful in significantly bringing down costs by developing new repair technologies. MHI is striving to offer a sense of assurance through endeavors such as compiling weekly reports on the status of work progress. It is my wish that we continue making persistent efforts to further build a trusting relationship with our customers, which we value more than anything. 91 Commitment to Our Customers/Report on Social Actions Maintaining and Strengthening the Defense Production and Technological Bases Contributing to the peace and safety of Japan through technology With the basic stance of ensuring the peace and safety of Japan through cutting-edge technology, MHI, as a leading enterprise in the Japanese defense industry, endeavors to maintain and strengthen the defense production and technological bases. We are also involved in the development, manufacture, and operational support for a vast array of defense equipment requested by the government, such as jet f ghters, helicopters, missiles, defense ships and tanks. The defense environment surrounding Japan has been dramatically changing over recent years. It is now more vital than ever to maintain and strengthen the production and technological bases to meet the needs of the nation amid f nancial diff culty and rapid technological progress. MHI is focusing on the future security environment and is developing various technologies that meet the needs of the country. This includes research on the Advanced Technology Demonstrator for the purpose of achieving technologies, such as stealth and high maneuver flight control technology to be applied to future jet fighters. Cutting-edge technologies in the defense sector have a broad reach, and ripple effects to the civilian sector are expected, in the fields of materials, components, and processing technology. So we believe defense technologies can also contribute to long-term technological advances in Japan and the defense sector is expected to develop as a national strategic industry. UH-60JA utility helicopter (for use by the Japan Ground Self-Defense Forces). Ratio of Defense-related businesses sales to total sales FY Ratio Amount 2009 11.8 percent 348.3 billion yen 2010 12.4 percent 361.0 billion yen 92 Commitment to Our Shareholders and Investors/Report on Social Actions Disclosure Principles and IR Activities Promoting IR activities to facilitate a detailed understanding of our business MHI is striving to assist institutional investors and individual investors in Japan and abroad with gaining a deeper understanding of our business operations. With a Corporate Communication Department dedicated to investor relations, we endeavor to disseminate appropriate information in a timely manner as well as provide additional opportunities for direct communication through a variety of briefings. We reflect the comments we receive in our ever-expanding IR activities. Providing accurate information online that is easy to understand MHI releases information in accordance with laws and regulations as mandated by the exchanges on which the company is listed; the company also quickly posts information on the Investor Relations section of our website. Information and data not subject to these laws and regulations are also posted, along with charts and comments on securities terminology, in an effort to release data that is easy-to-understand and accurate. In addition, videos of general shareholders' meetings and account settlement briefings for institutional investors and analysts, as well as business presentation briefings are posted on our website to further enhance understanding. In fiscal 2010 we have made improvements such as the addition of stock price information and access ranking data to both our Japanese and English websites to increase its usability. Implementing various briefings on business operation and strategy In response to demand from investors and analysts for greater details on the overall status and plans of individual businesses, MHI holds semiannual performance briefings as well as other types of briefings related to business performance and plans. The fiscal 2009 Account Settlement Briefing/2010 Medium-Term Business Plan Briefing was held in April during fiscal 2010, and was attended by 228 people. In June, there was a business presentation meeting for Strategies for Energy & Environment Business and eight business Headquarters, attended by a total of 460 people. Furthermore, tours and briefings were held at the MHI facilities, Mitsubishi Minatomirai Industrial Museum (Yokohama) and the History Museum (Nagasaki Shipyard & Machinery Works). Briefings were also held outside of neighboring cities where MHI sites are located in an effort to increase the number of opportunities to communicate with individual investors. 93 Commitment to Our Shareholders and Investors/Report on Social Actions Holding plant tours for stockholders The company has been conducting semiannual plant tours since March 2005 to deepen shareholder understanding of its business activities. In fiscal 2010, a tour was held in September at Kobe Shipyard & Machinery Works, where visitors could view the manufacturing process for diesel engines and nuclear power equipment. In March 2011, a tour was also held at Yokohama Dockyard & Machinery Works. Visitors saw the manufacturing process for gas turbine blades and wind generators, and the recently renovated Mitsubishi Minatomirai Industrial Museum. Participants made comments such as, I really felt that the excellent technological skill of each and every employee is the source of Japan's strength, and I hope MHI will continue to develop as a manufacturing company that exemplifies Japan. MHI will keep listening to everyone's opinions to improve IR activities. Touring Kobe Shipyard & Machinery Works. Touring Yokohama Dockyard & Machinery Works. A Word from a Stakeholder I value the active disclosure of information. Takahiro Mori Analyst, Global Research Department Merrill Lynch Japan Securities Co., Ltd. One of the areas that I appreciate about MHI's IR activities is their approach of actively disclosing information. Generally, it tends to be more difficult for a conglomerate that has a variety of businesses than a corporation dealing in a single business to gain understanding from outside the corporation, but MHI holds regular meetings, results briefings, and tours of manufacturing sites to bridge the information gap between the stock market and the corporation. Various corporations carry out this kind of general IR activities, but MHI takes it further by also holding business presentation meeting to talk about all business operations. As far as possible, MHI also answers a variety of questions from the stock market. As a result of this kind of active disclosure, I feel that the mutual understanding is deepened between the stock market and the corporation. 94 Commitment to Our Shareholders and Investors/Report on Social Actions Recent Dividend Disbursements Fiscal 2010 Dividend Distributions For fiscal 2010, a 2 yen per share year-end dividend was distributed. In addition to the previously distributed interim dividend of 2 yen per share, total dividends for the year were 4 yen per share. Dividend disbursements over the past five years FY Dividend per share 2006 6 yen 2007 6 yen 2008 6 yen 2009 4 yen 2010 4 yen 95 Commitment to Our Business Partners (Suppliers)/Report on Social Actions Fair Dealing Opening a door to new suppliers and ensuring fair evaluation and selection MHI procures a variety of materials and services both domestically and abroad that include materials such as steel, machinery, equipment, and components. MHI is very open to clients who are motivated and competitive. While complying with related laws and social norms, we evaluate and select with fairness to establish trust that leads to mutual prosperity. This concept is stipulated in MHI's Procurement Policy (released in 2002), which is posted on the Procurement page of our website. This page also includes guidelines for applicant companies and contact information for material procurement for the benefit of companies that are interested in doing business with MHI. Overseas Procurement Rate and a General Breakdown of Overseas Business Partners MHI Procurement Policy 1. Openness We strive to provide business opportunities openly to suppliers throughout the world, and welcome creative and competitive suppliers. 2. Fairness We provide chances for competition to qualified suppliers, and evaluate and select suppliers fairly based on criteria such as the suppliers' product quality, price, delivery schedule, technology and financial conditions. 3. Partnership We regard our suppliers as partners based on the mutual understanding that both partners should benefit from the relationship. 4. Compliance We comply with rules, regulations and social norm based on our compliance management policy, and all information submitted to MHI will be kept and used properly. 96 Commitment to Our Business Partners (Suppliers)/Report on Social Actions Thoroughly preventing illegal and unfair dealings MHI is striving to prevent illegal dealings, such as fraudulent orders, by having departments in charge of the ordering, receiving and use of procured goods provide mutual restraints. At each stage of ordering and inspection, more than one employee as well as management staff reviews the content of a transaction, and the results are confirmed by internal audit. MHI is endeavoring to comply with the Act against Delay in Payment of Subcontract Proceeds, Etc. to Subcontractors and the Construction Business Act, which prohibits large companies from forcing unfair business practices on smalland medium-sized companies. Furthermore, the Compliance Policy clearly outlines adherence to various laws and ordinances, and the state of legal compliance is confirmed through internal audits. 97 Commitment to Our Business Partners (Suppliers)/Report on Social Actions Promoting CSR Procurement Creation of Supply Chain CSR Promotion Guidelines In June 2010, MHI drew up MHI Group Supply Chain CSR Promotion Guidelines. The concept behind CSR activities in the MHI Group has been shared with business partners, and MHI aims to promote that concept throughout the supply chain. The basic ideas for the initiatives are spelled out using five points that include comprehensive compliance and promotion of corporate ethics, and assurance of product safety and QCD (quality, cost, delivery schedule), and enhanced technological development capabilities, and considerations regarding human rights and workplace safety. MHI is asking for partner cooperation. Members were selected from the Procurement & Sourcing Department of works to draw up these guidelines. They discussed CSR activities that MHI has always held as important in the execution of procurement, such as compliance, product quality, and environmental considerations, and talked about activities that need to be focused on, such as workplace safety and human rights. The content of the discussions were reflected in the guidelines. In addition, explanatory meetings have been held for Procurement Departments in each works to promote the guidelines awareness throughout the corporation, and information has been communicated outside the company as well through meetings with business partners, gatherings with cooperative companies held at various works, and the corporate website. An explanatory meeting on CSR procurement held for cooperative company members at Mihara Machinery Works. MHI Group Supply Chain CSR Promotion Guidelines 1. Compliance and Corporate Ethics We ask all Partners to persist in compliance related to all business activities, to foster corporate ethics, and also, to work on building and operating an organization to facilitate this. 2. Safety, Quality, Cost, Delivery and Innovation In order to maintain and improve the value of MHI's products, we ask all of our Partners to provide materials and services with assured safety and quality, cost and delivery ( QCD ). Moreover, in order to create end products with high added value, we ask for your continuous improvement in developing new technology. 3. Human Rights, Health and Safety In the business activities of all of our Partners (including their respective supply chains), the human rights of all employees must be respected and safe, comfortable working environments be assured. 4. Respect for the Environment In order to achieve a more sustainable society, we ask all of our Partners to continuously monitor and seek to reduce environmental impact of their activities. 5. Contribution to the Region and Society We ask all of our Partners to work positively on the activities to contribute to the development of international society as well as regional society and to foster the next generation etc. Our Partners are free to determine the most effective way to fulfill their social responsibilities, which may include contributions through normal course of their business, charitable donations or contributions of facilities and/or resources. 98 Commitment to Our Business Partners (Suppliers)/Report on Social Actions Topics Sharing CSR values through opportunities to speak face to face with business partners MHI believes it is necessary to share CSR values with our business partners to promote CSR in the supply chain. As a first step in that direction, in fiscal 2010 MHI arranged for opportunities to explain MHI's basic CSR concept and the MHI Group Supply Chain CSR Promotion Guidelines during business partner meetings and gatherings of cooperative company members at various worksites. In the future, MHI aims to exchange information with one another and work together to conduct surveys and hearings that ascertain the extent to which CSR activities are being promoted at partner companies. Global Procurement Manual designed to reinforce relations with business partners The Global Procurement Manual (GPM) was published in fiscal 2009. The GPM was drawn up so that MHI quality management system principles can be definitively realized in the actual procurement process. Therefore, MHI shares procurement information with partners to enhance convenience. Looking ahead, we intend to use the GPM to reinforce relations with business partners in the global supply chain and offer outstanding service quality to customers. Promoting information sharing that aims to strengthen cooperation At the first Business Partners Conference held in 2008, we declared that MHI will connect business partner comments, requests, and recommendations with management process reform and costcutting measures and accordingly, MHI has been strengthening corporate actions. In fiscal 2010, we introduced an online system that allows business partners to submit VE (Note1). Also, the third Business Partners Conference was held in November, in which 297 companies participated. The President expressed the idea that close dialogues with partners are necessary for creating and enhancing true added value throughout the value chain. We presented certificates of gratitude to 13 partner companies that have significantly contributed to our business. Among these companies, three shared presentations on their improvement activities. MHI held the similar partners conference at various business segments, and works in an effort to share information to bolster ties. (Note1) VE: A method for both improving product value and reducing costs. Business Partners Conference 99 Commitment to Our Business Partners (Suppliers)/Report on Social Actions Procurement Education and Training Training for employees engaged in procurement activities Our procurement departments provide various training programs on procurement as a safeguard against inappropriate ordering. As in the previous fiscal year, a meeting was held in fiscal 2010 for young employees where participants could exchange opinions based on case studies. Discussions took place on issues and Japanese laws relevant to compliance that are encountered in procurement practices. There were 25 participants. In addition, 35 people attended an introductory lecture for new employees on basic information concerning procurement practices. Furthermore, 253 MHI employees and 64 employees from eight Group companies participated in an online course on the Act Against Delay in Payment of Subcontract Proceeds, Etc. to Subcontractors, which was held for Group employees. MHI will continue to provide programs based on an understanding of training needs in relation to business plans and revised laws while also enhancing content. Compliance training 100 Commitment to Our Employees/Report on Social Actions Utilizing and Cultivating Diverse Human Resources Active recruitment and utilization of mid-career, overseas and female workers In the course of excelling at manufacturing large-scale system products that involve lengthy timeframes, including power generation plants, aerospace equipment and marine vessels, MHI's basic policy for recruiting and developing human resources had been to hire new graduates and provide ample in-house training. However, MHI hires mid-career professionals where necessary according to its needs because a diverse pool of personnel is necessary to win over fierce competitors (in fiscal 2010, approximately 1,000 new graduates (who started in April 2011) and approximately 130 mid-career professionals were hired). The company treats new graduates and mid-career workers equally. Mid-career workers play an active role in their respective fields as members of the company, making full use of the skills they have cultivated. MHI is also actively working to hire personnel to deploy overseas for the global development of its business. The company is hiring overseas students and foreign students through aggressive recruitment efforts. In fiscal 2010, in addition to our usual hiring activities in the U.S. and the U.K., we also implemented PR activities for the first time in Singapore. This resulted in the hiring of about 30 new graduates. In addition, MHI is actively hiring and utilizing female workers. The number of new female workers and managers has been increasing each year. In fiscal 2010, approximately 31 percent of new graduate and clerical recruits were women. Basic Data Breakdown of employees by age (FY2010) Under 30 30-39 40-49 50-59 60 and over Male 8,226 9,469 5,827 6,182 502 Female 781 927 687 416 14 Total 9,007 10,396 6,514 6,598 516 Number of new graduates hired University Vocational school and High school, Total junior college other (females in brackets) Joined the 672 124 676 1,472 (136) company in April 2010 Joined the 480 96 410 986 (80) company in April 2011 Number of female managers (section manager and above; excluding medical staff) 2007/4 2008/4 2009/4 2010/4 2011/4 158 182 219 248 266 Number of rehired employees (excluding those from Group companies) 2009/4 2009/10 2010/4 2010/10 2011/4 1,365 1,591 1,720 1,893 2,172 101 Commitment to Our Employees/Report on Social Actions Rehiring all who wish to continue to work and promoting senior employee skill utilization To provide a place that allows employees to demonstrate their abilities after retirement, the company implements a rehiring system throughout the Group that, in principle, embraces all employees who wish to take advantage of the opportunity for reemployment up to the age of 65 in both fulland part-time positions. As of April 1, 2011, MHI alone (excluding Group companies) has rehired approximately 2,200 employees. These workers are assigned important roles for transferring their skills and expertise as experienced professionals. Expansion of hiring to actualize the skills of the differently-abled people Since 1992, MHI has been pursuing efforts to expand job opportunities for the differently-abled people and create a suitable working environment or all workers by establishing a Committee for the Promotion of Employment of the Handicapped. n fiscal 2010, in addition to the effects of statutory reform in July, we expanded the hiring of disabled individuals by operating a designated website, collaborating with regional “HelloWork” (Employment Security Bureau) offices, hosting career fairs and other means. As a result, MHI's employment rate for the differently-abled people reached 1.97 percent as of April 1, 2011, exceeding the statutory minimum of 1.8 percent. We will further increase such hiring in the future with the help of information and cooperation from each of our main hubs. 102 Commitment to Our Employees/Report on Social Actions Improving education to strengthen global responsiveness MHI is working to enhance employee capabilities and improve education aiming to realize a global organization capable of responding to sudden and chaotic changes in the market. Based on OJT (On The Job Training), we are implementing various educational programs starting immediately after hiring according to job level and function. In fiscal 2010, with the aim of honing the skills and capabilities of our junior and mid-level employees, we reformulated our stratified educational program. We will continue to improve our educational system in hopes of further fortifying our global responsiveness. Strengthening the development of junior technicians on the forefront of manufacturing At MHI, as more baby boomers retire, the number of junior technicians is increasing. There is an urgent need to train technicians who can maintain the front line of manufacturing. In this area, we prepared textbooks standardized for the entire company to ensure the commonality and uniformity of education. We have also made DVDs and digitized “Skills of the Master” manuals developed by veteran technicians in order to ensure the succession of techniques to future generations and the rapid and solid development of our junior technicians. In addition, with the dual aim of pushing up the level of expertise and energizing our junior technicians, we hold company-wide skills contests challenging participants in machine assembly, lathe, welding and many more. MHI is also working to improve the leadership skills of employees designated as mentors to junior technicians. 103 Commitment to Our Employees/Report on Social Actions Bolstering training activities for Group company employees To reinforce the management and overall constitution of MHI Group business operations, we promote training operations for the entire Group. In fiscal 2007, we opened an e-Learning site exclusively for Group companies and began collective training from fiscal 2009. We will continue to improve training efforts for Group companies in hopes of strengthening their responsiveness in the face of globalization. Collective training for Group companies Encouraging mutual understanding through dialogue and the enhancement of personal capabilities MHI is taking action to create a workplace in which employees can perform invigorating work, free from anxiety, and to promote the enhancement of each person's capabilities by facilitating mutual understanding and trust through dialogues between supervisors and subordinates. By providing opportunities for regular dialogues between supervisors and subordinates at their request, MHI ensures the effective sharing of business targets and a common awareness of issues. Supervisors communicate with subordinates about the roles and tasks individual employees are expected to fulfill while also paying attention to their requests and business improvement suggestions. For example, for those working in technical or clerical positions, MHI adopts an MBO (Management by Objectives) system with annual performance targets and progress evaluations twice a year. Non-clerical employees and their respective supervisors hold discussions once a year to maintain a common understanding. 360° research: A program for middle managers middle-managers' daily behavior by their supervisors, colleagues and subordinates. Results are shared with managers. This program is intended to encourage the further growth and selfimprovement of managers by keeping them better informed of the feedback and evaluation of others while enabling them to identify their strengths and areas for improvement. The program is conducted once every two years, with the next one slated for 2012. 104 Commitment to Our Employees/Report on Social Actions Basic Data Breakdown of employees by age (FY2010) Under 30: 9,007 (8,226 male, 781 female) 30-39: 10,396 (9,469 male, 927 female) 40-49: 6,514 (5,827 male, 687 female) 50-59: 6,598 (6,182 male, 416 female) 60 and over: 516 (502 male, 14 female) Number of new graduates hired 986 Number of female managers (section manager and above; excluding medical staff) 266 Use of annual paid holidays Number of paid holidays granted: 22.0 Number of paid holidays used: 15.9 Usage rate: 72.3 percent Number of employees who resigned of own volition (FY2010) 355 (Male: 251, Female: 104) Commitment status of new graduate employees Out of 425 employees who entered on April 1, 2006 (390 male, 35 female), 403 remained as of April 1, 2009 (375 male, 28 female). Out of 534 employees who entered on April 1, 2007 (492 male, 42 female), 517 remained as of April 1, 2010 (476 male, 41 female). Average annual salary At March 31, 2007: 7,482,699 yen At March 31, 2008: 7,588,310 yen At March 31, 2009: 7,568,830 yen At March 31, 2010: 7,267,210 yen At March 31, 2011: 7,201,076 yen Number of mid-career workers hired 135 Number of rehired employees (excluding those from Group companies) October 2010: 1,893 April 2011: 2,172 Number of employees who took child-care leave 117 (Male: 14, Female: 103) Unionization rate (domestic) 100 percent 105 Commitment to Our Employees/Report on Social Actions Building a Better Working Environment Supporting balance between child-care/family-care and work in various ways To create an environment that helps employees effectively balance their work and family life, MHI is working to improve systems for raising the next generations and supporting a healthy work-life balance. The following programs exceed legal requirements. Child-care leave (until the child is three years of age) Child-care work shift (until the child graduates from elementary school) Family-care leave (in total, within less than one year per family member requiring care along with family-care work shift) Working to improve MHI's unique system, in 2007, we institutionalized our Career Return Program that opens the door to individuals willing to reenter the company after having left for marriage or childbirth. In fiscal 2010, nine such individuals were rehired as full-time employees (24 total). In April 2009, the Work-Life Support Group was set up in the Personnel Department to comprehensively improve work environment quality from the perspective of raising the next generations and supporting a healthy work-life balance. We are also making efforts in areas outside system operation such as placing the system and procedures regarding child-care and family-care on our intranet so that all employees can easily access information as well as holding discussion panels between individuals on child-care leaves of absence and those who took such leaves in the past in hopes of enabling a smooth transition back to work. In the future, we will go beyond merely operating the system and work towards promoting employee enlightenment, awareness and understanding and creating a comfortable workplace that focuses on employees' work-life balance. 106 Commitment to Our Employees/Report on Social Actions Programs that focus on work-life balance Child care and Child-care leave system childbirth Using accumulated paid holidays for child care purposes (Note1) Child-care work shift system (shortened work hour system) Work leave to care for a sick child Special grants for working employees who place their child in daycare (Note2) Next generation nurturing support grants (Note3) Career Return Program (Note4) Family care Family-care leave system Using accumulated paid holidays for family care purposes (Note1) Family-care work shift system (shortened work hours system) Work leave to care for a family member Career Return Program (Note4) Others Flex-time system Paid holiday system by half day Trips and time off for longtime employees (Note1) Accumulated paid holidays is a system in which up to 50 days paid holidays can be accumulated to use for illness, injury, child care, family care, and other purposes. (Note2) Special grants for working employees who place their children in daycare provide ¥5,000 per month to working employees who place children in daycare until the end of the fiscal year in which the child reaches three years of age. (approximately 820 paid in fiscal 2010) (Note3) Next generation nurturing support grants provide ¥100,000 per employee with three or more children. (approximately 230 paid in fiscal 2010) (Note4) The Career Return Program is a system that opens the door to individuals who want to reenter the company after having left due to marriage, childbirth, childcare, nursing care and transfer of spouse (nine individuals reentered the company in fiscal 2010). 107 Commitment to Our Employees/Report on Social Actions Nursery operated on the grounds of our Nagasaki shipyard & Machinery Works In April 2010, the Nagasaki Shipyard & Machinery Works opened the first MHI in-house nursery, MHI Kira Kids Nursery. All MHI Group employees working in the Nagasaki area can leave their preschool-aged children at any time between 7am and 8pm. Since opening its doors, the nursery has held various events such as parent & child picnics and Christmas parties as well as Respect-for-the-Aged events for elderly residents of the community that were well received by participants. In addition to our goal of continuing to be a nursery well loved by employees and local residents, we look to establish nurseries at other MHI locations as well based on the performance of this nursery. Respect-for-the-Aged party held for local Cooking class as part of kids' food education residents A Word from an Employee Supporting both work and childcare thanks to Kira Kids Nursery Ruben Camacho (left) Raw Materials Purchasing & Subcontracting Section Machinery Procurement & Sourcing Department Nagasaki Shipyard & Machinery Works We decided to leave our 1 year-old daughter at the nursery because it is located close to the office and the fees are very reasonable. Not only I can see my daughter playing from my work computer thanks to a web camera installed at the nursery but equally the facilities are well equipped and lively, polite and professional childcare staff takes care of her. The nursery prepares meals and looks after her until 8 at night. It is thanks to this great environment provided by the nursery that I can devote myself with peace of mind, which greatly supports to provide results at work. 108 Commitment to Our Employees/Report on Social Actions Efforts for raising awareness of human rights in individual workplaces Since setting up the Committee for Raising Awareness of Human Rights in 1992, we have been moving ahead with raising awareness of human rights across the company. MHI has promoted human rights education and training every year. In fiscal 2010, approximately 1,500 new recruits and 1,600 newly appointed managers and supervisors participated in the training program. MHI strives to prevent sexual harassment through the establishment of a consultation counter (for men and women) at the Personnel Department of each workplace and location as well as the inhouse distribution of pamphlets. In order to prevent power harassment, we worked to strengthen awareness through such activities as making new information pamphlets and distributing them to in-house managers as well as providing a newly introduced e-Learning course completed by approximately 10,300 in-house managers. Also, new themes in compliance promotion training were added. We will endeavor to continue to strengthen educational efforts. Creating safe and healthy workplaces centered on a basic policy for employee safety and health MHI embraces a basic policy for employee safety and health founded on the following three commitments: (1) Always hold fast to the conviction that life is precious, and carry out safety-first measures appropriate to each position and location; (2) Devote every effort to safety in creating outstanding products that contribute to the development of society; (3) Maintain awareness that sound health is the basis upon which all else depends, and ensure that all employees have a comfortable workplace enabling them to be sound in body. In line with these principles, we operate an occupational health and safety management system throughout the company to create safe and healthy workplaces. We will continue to fortify our activities aimed at reducing occupational accidents and leaves due to occupational injury and sickness. Industrial accident frequency rate (Note1) (Note1) Industrial accident frequency rate: number of deaths or injuries sustained through industrial mishaps per million hours on the job. It is calculated as follows: number of deaths or injuries sustained on the job that require one or more days of leave / aggregate number of hours worked × 1,000,000. 109 Commitment to Our Employees/Report on Social Actions Risk management and training to prevent work-related accidents and injuries In order to reduce the risk of occupational accidents, MHI looks to make improvements based on the results of risk assessments effected at each location targeting tasks and equipment mainly carried out by safety and manufacturing sectors. We are also implementing a safety training program using visual learning materials for untrained individuals and hands-on equipment that enables employees to experience walking at elevations and falling objects, among others. Such training equipment is available at the Nagasaki Shipyard & Machinery Works, Kobe Shipyard & Machinery Works and three other locations. Furthermore, the company is vigorously striving to improve equipment and update outmoded facilities to create a comfortable workplace. Maintaining and improving physical and mental health At MHI, we create healthcare divisions at each location and proactively support employees in maintaining their physical and mental wellbeing. MHI is promoting health counseling and treatment by specialists based on the results of health diagnoses and check-ups. In particular, we started offering health counseling services for employees setting company-wide targets based on BMI in order to prevent lifestyle related diseases from 2010. In the area of mental health, we are implementing various measures from prevention by providing education and raising awareness to early detection, treatment, support for returning to work and preventing recurrences. Number of participants in mental health training Promoting communication between management and employees MHI believes that communication between management and employees is crucial for carrying out smooth business operations. In line with this thinking, the company's intranet, corporate newsletter and other resources are fully utilized to disseminate management information and messages from top management to all employees as quickly as possible. In addition, various labor-management consultations provide forums for management to both convey management policies and strategies as well as to hear the views of the employees to be integrated into management practices. 110 Commitment to Our Employees/Report on Social Actions Topics President's Town Meeting As in fiscal 2009, the President's Town Meeting was held in again fiscal 2010. This meeting is held to provide employees an opportunity to hear directly from the top about the management policies of the company and the reasons behind them with the aim of increasing their feeling of participation as employees and motivation and setting everyone in the company on the same course. In fiscal 2010, we arranged two programs, one entitled Discussions with Young Employees and the other Worksite Visits, that were held at 11 locations. During Discussions with Young Employees, the President had an active exchange of ideas with employees in their mid-thirties (including members of Forum 35 ) who are aiming to be future leaders, as well as other young employees at each location who are passionately involved in corporate culture reform activities. Some employee reactions included I was truly inspired after hearing about the President's life when he was in his mid-thirties, and The President's excitement towards management really impressed me. Worksite Visits consisted of friendly exchanges mainly at production sites where employees could speak frankly with the President and have their picture taken with him. Town Meetings will be repeated in the future as they are an effective means of communication between the top management and employees. 111 Commitment to Our Employees/Report on Social Actions Forum 35 Forum 35 makes our job worth doing through employee exchanges at all locations. Individuals who are in their mid-thirties and were born during Japan's second baby boom take great responsibility for their work as mid-level employees and play a leading role at their workplace. Forum 35 activities include promoting exchanges between employees of the same generation that surpass the boundaries of job title and location. Participants can appreciate the diversity of the company's business, the sophistication of different divisions' technology and the abundance of talent all in hopes of increasing their motivation which would lead to the creation of new businesses and products. Beginning in our Head Office in July 2009, Forum 35 has spread to include members from the Kobe Shipyard & Machinery Works, Nagasaki Shipyard & Machinery Works, Nagoya Aerospace Systems Works, Hiroshima Machinery Works, Yokohama Dockyard & Machinery Works and Machine Tool Division (Ritto Machinery Works). Participating employees hold periodical meetings at their locations and exchanges between locations as well as discussions with the President, among others. From these activities, some have provided the following feedback, I got a renewed understanding of the importance of the role that a manufacturer must fulfill towards society and I realized the broad scope of MHI's products and great technological strengths. Forum 35 will remain part of MHI in its capacity of energizing the organization. Head Office and Yokohama Dockyard & Machinery Works employees in discussions with the President 112 Contributions to Society/Report on Social Actions Fulfilling our Policy on Socially Beneficial Activities Conducting activities that suit the characteristics of each region based on the MHI policy on socially beneficial activities MHI used the opportunity of the publication of the Social and Environmental Report in 2004 to formulate the basic concepts for social contribution, stated as We are obligated to be an innovative partner to society and We place importance on relationships with local communities based on mutual trust. MHI policy for social contribution was composed in 2007 after soliciting input from individuals outside the company, and repeatedly reviewing and discussing the types of activities expected by society. Based on that policy, a variety of programs are being carried out throughout various regions in Japan. Local contribution Live together with communities and contribute to their development Upbringing of the next generation Transfer the heart of Japanese manufacturing as well as the arts of science and technology to the next generation Upbringing of the next generation Transfer the heart of Japanese manufacturing as well as the arts of science and technology to the next generation MHI has developed and produced more than 700 kinds of products in its long history, cultivating the heart of Japanese manufacturing and the arts of science and technology. To pass its knowledge and skills onto succeeding generations, MHI has a tradition of organizing educational activities such as science classes with experiments for children. 113 Contributions to Society/Report on Social Actions Achievements Made through Socially Beneficial Activities Approx. 1.65B yen used for socially beneficial activities MHI endorses the goals of the One Percent Club, a program initiated by Nippon Keidanren (Japan Business Federation) in which participating members pledge to use at least 1 percent of their ordinary profits or disposable incomes to fund activities for the public benefit, and we enthusiastically engage in social contribution activities as a member. MHI has been a member since the Club's founding in 1990. The company reports its expenditures for such purposes every year; we spent an amount equivalent to 6.89 percent of ordinary profit, or 1.65B yen, in fiscal 2009. Change in expenditures on socially beneficial activities FY2007 FY2008 FY2009 Academic research 138 Millions of yen 128 Millions of yen 339 Millions of yen Education 665 Millions of yen 766 Millions of yen 537 Millions of yen Community activities 155 Millions of yen 131 Millions of yen 158 Millions of yen Sports 118 Millions of yen 112 Millions of yen 114 Millions of yen Other 276 Millions of yen 463 Millions of yen 507 Millions of yen Total 1,352 Millions of yen 1,600 Millions of yen 1,655 Millions of yen Percentage of ordinary profit 1.98% 2.12% 6.89% (Note1) Figures include cash donations, payments in kind, activities by employees, free use of company facilities, etc., converted into monetary equivalents; activities privately performed by employees are not included. (Note2) Group companies under consolidated accounting are included starting with FY2008. (Note3) Figures for FY2010 are now being prepared. 114 Contributions to Society/Report on Social Actions Robust recovery assistance to areas hit by natural disasters The MHI Group has long embraced a humanitarian perspective and offered assistance and support across the world in the aftermath of large-scale natural disasters. After the Great East Japan Earthquake struck in March 2011, we donated various supplies and relief funds to help victims recover as quickly as possible. Major support activities in recent years Year Disaster Scale of Type of support support 2011 Great East Japan Earthquake 583 Millions of Donations of solar power systems yen and other aid 2010 China Qinghai Earthquake 10 Millions of Cash donation yen Chile Earthquake 5 Millions of Cash donation yen Haiti Earthquake 10 Millions of Donation of lighting towers with yen generators 2009 Indian Ocean Earthquake and 3 Millions of Cash donation Tsunami yen Damage from Typhoon Morakot 2.54 Millions of Cash donation yen L'Aquila Earthquake in Italy 2.54 Millions of Cash donation yen 2008 China Sichuan Earthquake 210 Millions of Cash donation yen Cyclone in Southern Burma 3 Millions of Cash donation yen Extraordinarily heavy snow in 1.5 Millions of Cash donation Southern China yen Iwate-Miyagi Nairiku Earthquake 2 Millions of Cash donation yen (Note) The monetary amount for 2011 includes monies for actions to be executed within the year. 115 Contributions to Society/Report on Social Actions Examples of Regional Socially Beneficial Activities Ship Launching Ceremonies Open to the Public To convey the outstanding nature of manufacturing and to help people better understand the shipbuilding industry, MHI makes naming and launching ceremonies for ships open to the public. In fiscal 2010, Shimonoseki Shipyard & Machinery Works held a launching ceremony for the public for survey ships that mine energy resources, such as seabed minerals and methane hydrate, as well as for a pure car and truck carrier and the car ferry, ISHIKARI. The launching ceremony for the ISHIKARI. Nursery School Children Dig up Potatoes at Mitsubishi Wind Turbine View Park Yokohama Works invited 40 local nursery school children to Mitsubishi Wind Turbine View Park on July 13 to dig up potatoes with employee volunteers. About 100 kilograms of potatoes were harvested and donated to a nursery school as healthy snacks. Nursery school children dig up potatoes at Mitsubishi Wind Turbine View Park. 116 Contributions to Society/Report on Social Actions Health Consultations at a Local Event The Industrial Machinery Business, Technology & Solutions Division (the current Hiroshima Machinery Works) cooperated in the Minami Kannon Community Center Festival held on November 13. Health checks that included health consultations and measuring blood pressure were conducted by employees of Hiroshima Mitsubishi Hospital, which is located near the Industrial Machinery Business, Technology & Solutions Division. So many local residents visited the booth on the day of the event that they had to wait in line. Many residents took advantage of the health consultation. Visiting Nursing Homes for the Elderly From September 21 to 27, approximately 100 students undergoing technical training at Nagoya Aerospace Systems Works split into groups to visit 14 nursing homes for the elderly and facilities for the mentally impaired. In addition to assisting with meals and bath time, they learned about community interaction by communicating with facility residents through games and other activities. Students undergoing technical training play a game with facility residents. MHI Charity Musical On January 29, the MHI Head Office hosted a performance of the musical, The Wizard of Oz in the hall of the adjacent building. Approximately 340 local elementary students, children from city welfare institutions and their parents were invited. Following the show, the M's Square showroom was opened for the audience where they viewed MHI products, including rockets and the communication robot named wakamaru. The musical, The Wizard of Oz. 117 Contributions to Society/Report on Social Actions Charity Concert The Takasago Machinery Works has been holding charity concerts every year since fiscal 2003. In fiscal 2010, the concert was held at Takasago Cultural Hall on February 27. We also welcomed the local Takasago Boys' & Girls' Choir as special guests and the concert proceeded under a harmonious atmosphere. All proceeds of the concert are donated to Takasago City to promote welfare and cultural programs. The Charity Concert held by Takasago Machinery Works. A Word from a Stakeholder We are grateful for the continuation of donations that help promote welfare and cultural programs. Takumi Amano Executive Director Takasago City Social Welfare Council, Social Welfare Organization Each year, we receive donations from proceeds raised by the MHI Charity Concert, contributions collected from the audience, and proceeds from the Charity Bazaar held during the Mitsubishi-Takasago Summer Festival. These donations help welfare and cultural programs in Takasago City, Hyogo Prefecture. In fiscal 2010, we received approximately 1.1 million yen in aid raised through the concert and bazaar. Recently, there has been a decline in the donations given to our social welfare council, so we are extremely grateful for the continued donations. We also believe that the programs deepen interaction with the local community and present a good opportunity to energize the region. 118 Contributions to Society/Report on Social Actions Examples of Activities that Nurture the Next Generation Elementary School Students Football Competition The Power Systems has sponsored the MHI Elementary School Students' Football Championship since fiscal 2008. Three representative teams that had won regional tournaments in Yokohama, Takasago and Nagasaki gathered again in fiscal 2010 for heated competition at Ajinomoto Stadium. Elementary school students' football competition. Baseball Teams Host a Children's Baseball Clinic Baseball teams from Nagasaki, Kobe, Yokohama, Hiroshima, and Nagoya periodically hold baseball clinics for elementary and junior high school students in each area, and deepen community interaction by giving instruction on fielding and batting. A baseball team member gives instruction on batting. Hands-on Manufacturing for Elementary School Students On August 6, Kobe Shipyard & Machinery Works and the Transportation Systems & Advanced Technology Division invited approximately 200 elementary school children and their parents to participate in a workshop where they made robots using paper cups. The aim of the event was to promote interest in advanced technologies and teach the importance of manufacturing to the next generation, who are responsible for the future. The children were excited to see the hand-made robots move. A mother and child attempt to build a robot. 119 Contributions to Society/Report on Social Actions Inviting Elementary School Students to JAXA Under the theme, Let's Go See Technologies of the Future, Nagasaki Shipyard & Machinery Works invited 20 elementary school students from Nagasaki Prefecture to tour JAXA Tsukuba Space Center (Tsukuba City) and the Mitsubishi Minatomirai Industrial Museum (Yokohama City) on August 19 and 20. The students viewed the H-II rocket and the astronaut training facility, fueling their dreams of the future. Elementary school students from Nagasaki who participated in the tour. Plant Tours for Elementary School Students from Takasago City Takasago Machinery Works held plant tours from November 5 to 29 for approximately 1,000 fifthgraders from 10 elementary schools in Takasago City. Volunteer female employees who are Customer Project members led the tours and talked to the children in an easy-to-understand manner about topics such as how turbines generate electricity. Elementary school students who participated in the plant tour. 120 Contributions to Society/Report on Social Actions Practical Instruction with the Lathe for High School Students The Machine Tool Division (the current Ritto Machinery Works) has been providing practical instruction with the engine lathe to teachers and students from local technical high schools. The program began 3 years ago as part of collaboration between industry and academia, and the instruction will continue to be provided with the aim of contributing to human resource development for local youth involved in manufacturing. High school students receive practical instruction. Topics Offering TABLE FOR TWO Meals at Yokohama Dockyard & Machinery Works and Nagasaki Shipyard & Machinery Works Yokohama Dockyard & Machinery Works began offering TABLE FOR TWO (TFT) meals in December 2010, and Nagasaki Shipyard & Machinery Works followed suit in March 2011. TFT is a social action program devised in 2007 by the Japanese NPO, TABLE FOR TWO International. The project donates 20 yen for each healthy, TFT meal provided at places such as corporate cafeterias. This pays for one school lunch for children in Africa. The program was conceived to balance the social issue of developed nations fighting an increase in obesity because of overnutrition, with the malnutrition suffered by many children in developing nations. Many companies and universities participate because they agree with the objective. Yokohama Dockyard & Machinery Works also held a lecture by TABLE FOR TWO International's director, Mr. Kogure, to engender employee understanding toward the program. Presently, TFT's healthy dishes are proving so popular at both sites that they are sell-outs. A healthy, TFT meal. A lecture given by the NPO director. 121 Contributions to Society/Report on Social Actions Examples of Group Company Activities Koryo Engineering Co., Ltd. Continuing a Tree-planting Project In 2003, Koryo Engineering launched the Project to Create a Forest in Takasago City. Each year, the company plants trees with donations from employees. In April 2010, 20 Yoshino cherry trees and 13 evergreen trees were planted. Additionally, as a part of the program, in March 2011 employee volunteers participated in the planting of weeping plum trees, heavenly bamboo, and glossy abelia along the path in front of the main entrance to Takasago Municipal Hospital, which presented the company with a certificate of appreciation. Planting greenery. Tamachi Building Co., Ltd. Offering Nursery School Children Environmental Learning Opportunities Tamachi Building uses the rooftop garden of its Daiichi Tamachi Bldg. to offer nursery school children from the Tamachi area opportunities to learn about the environment. The children picked strawberries in May 2010, and in November of the same year they dug sweet potatoes. A total of 43 children aged three to five from nearby nursery schools were invited to the garden where they were told about the environmental effects of rooftop greenery and were able try their hand at harvesting. The children were also given a chance to sample the foods after they were harvested. They enjoyed learning about the importance of nature. Nursery school children picking strawberries. 122 Contributions to Society/Report on Social Actions Kinki Ryoju Estate Co., Ltd. Baseball Clinic for Young Children In May 2010, Kinki Ryoju Estate held a baseball clinic for young children hosted by the company's rubber-ball baseball team. Approximately 50 elementary students belonging to boy's baseball teams in Kobe City and their coaches participated in the baseball clinic. Thirteen members from the baseball team instructed the children in techniques for fielding, batting, and base running. The company's rubber-ball baseball team includes several former members of the MHI Kobe (Hardball) Baseball Team, and the team always achieves top-class performances in the Kobe Rubber-Ball Baseball Association. The instruction utilized the member's skills and was extremely well received. The baseball clinic for young children. Hiroshima Ryoju Estate Co., Ltd. Accepting Student Work-study Programs Hiroshima Ryoju Estate accepts work-study programs for local junior high, high school, and vocational school students at company-run facilities in order to provide students with an opportunity to learn about the meaning of work and to think about the future. In 2010, Hiroshima Diamond Hotel and the Japanese restaurant, Hanano opened their establishments to students who received hands-on experience that included interacting with customers, making beds, and cooking in the kitchen. The work-study program at Hiroshima Diamond Hotel. 123 Contributions to Society/Report on Social Actions CBC Industrias Pesadas S.A. Donating Goods to Nearby Welfare Facilities In 2009, CBC Industrias Pesadas in Brazil began donating goods to children living in nearby welfare facilities. In fiscal 2010, it donated 185 chocolate eggs during Easter, and 817 toys, 450 articles of clothing, 320 pairs of shoes, and 55 boxes of foodstuffs at Christmas. Children smile while holding their toy gifts. Mitsubishi Heavy Industries Dongfang Gas Turbine (Guangzhou) Co., Ltd. Donating Relief Supplies to Elementary Schools Affected by Mudslides Mitsubishi Heavy Industries Dongfang Gas Turbine (Guangzhou) Co., Ltd. in China donated relief supplies, such as 360 sets of scarves, gloves, and heaters to the children of Ching-ping Elementary School in the area of Mianzhu in Sichuan hit by the mudslide disaster. Donating relief supplies to the elementary school. MHI Technical Services Corporation Socially Beneficial Activities, Such as Donations and Blood drives Many employees of MHI Technical Services Corporation in the Philippines have voluntarily developed social action programs since a CSR program was launched in 2009. In July 2010, they contributed 10,000 pesos to orphans through the Christian foundation, Lambs Home. In October of the same year, in addition to 56 employees cooperating in a blood drive given by the Philippine Red Cross, the company carried out various activities to help children, including donating one computer and one monitor each to six elementary schools in remote areas, such as an elementary school in the Province of Sorsogon, located in the southernmost edge of Luzon Island. Children gather around the donated computer. 124 CSR Action Plans CSR Reports for Fiscal 2008 to 2010 and CSR Action Plans for Fiscal 2011 and beyond MHI formulated medium-term CSR targets for a three-year period (fiscal 2008 to 2010) as well as action plans for each fiscal year to expand CSR management across the entire Group and implemented each activity. For fiscal 2011 and beyond, we will prepare a new medium-term plan and the CSR Committee, chaired by the President, will review the progress of activities every half term to promote the strategic and comprehensive CSR initiatives throughout the Group. 125 CSR Reports for Fiscal 2008 to 2010 and CSR Action Plans for Fiscal 2011 and beyond Area Priority item (responsibility) Medium-term targets (FY2008–2010) Broadened CSR awareness 1. Broaden CSR awareness across the Group and promote self-directed activities of individual departments (CSR Committee / CSR Department) 2. Selection and implementation of unified activity themes for the entire Group (representative CSR activities) based on the CSR Action Guidelines 1. Energizing activities in line with the social contribution policy of the entire company (community contribution and nurturing the next generation) and instilling a Socially beneficial activities (CSR sense of unity across the Group Department) 2. Raising the level of all activities by exchanging information among departments and energizing activities of Group companies 3. Building a structure to support participation of employees in social contribution activities Strengthening information dissemination (Corporate Communication CSR Department) 1. Gain wider recognition and improve evaluation of the company’s environmental protection efforts Promotion 1. Enhancement of brand value 2. Promote PR to improve the corporate image concerning the environment 3. Increase the number of shareholders who hold the company’s stocks longer (fan) 2. Enhancement of corporate image 4. Attract 140,000 visitors a year 3. Promotion of IR activities 4. Improvement of the Mitsubishi Minatomirai Industrial Museum CSR procurement 1. Penetration of CSR Procurement Guidelines and strengthened PDCA cycle (Procurement Planning & Adminis2. Compliance with REACH Regulation and others tration Department, Procurement & Sourcing Department) 3. Deepened activities for further reducing energy use in transportation Thorough compliance (Compliance 1. Establishment of promotion system across the Group and unified activity content Committee) 2. Implementation of compliance training that is well-developed in terms of both awareness and knowledge Order compliance (Order CompliMaintaining zero violations of the Anti-Monopoly Act (continued order compliance activities) ance Committee) Compliance with the Construction 1. Improvement of on-site compliance level Compliance Business Act 2. Establishment of the system for compliance (Construction Business Act Compliance Committee) 3. Support of the Group companies in compliance Compliance with export-related 1. Enhancing sure export control management at individual departments and cultivating experts in export management laws and regulations (International 2. Further strengthening effective export control management system by Group companies Trade Control Committee) Ensuring achievement of the voluntary reduction target for CO2 emissions Reduced CO2 emissions (Environ1. Visualization of energy usage and implementation of energy conservation by eliminating waste ment Committee) 2. Obtaining necessary emission credits and systematically introducing energy-saving equipment Environment 3. Installation of additional photovoltaic facilities to bring cumulative total across the company to more than 2,000 kW 1. Completing introduction of environmental ISO in Group companies in Japan Group environmental management 2. Deployment of environmental management activities by the Group acting as one (Environment Committee) 3. Implementation of regular audits of Group companies and round-table conferences Raising awareness of human rights (Committee for Raising Awareness Broaden understanding and awareness regarding human right issues across the company and implement initiatives to prevent sexual and power harassment of Human Rights) Promote employment of the differently-abled people (Committee for Maintenance and expansion of employment level exceeding legal mandate, and promotion of systematic employment by individual departments the Promotion of Employment of the Human rights Handicapped) and labor Creating a better workplace (Personnel Department) 1. Further enhance the environment for carefully nurturing valuable human resources 1. Enriched education 2. Implementation of effective measures, starting from the prevention of mental health disorders to supporting employees in returning to work 2. Strengthening mental health 3. Further increasing the rehiring rate (more than 60%) 3. Utilization of retired employees 4. Maintaining Kurumin (next generation nurturing support) certification mark 4. Nurturing the next generation Ensuring quality and safety of 1. Establishment of an integrated QMS (Quality Management System) across the headquarters and works and construction of an autonomous framework nuclear business 2. Further improvement of plant reliability (Managing Board for Innovation in Product the Nuclear Business) 3. Nurturing a climate that does not allow compliance violations and earning the public trust through ongoing dissemination of information responsibility Product safety (Production System 1. Utilization, spread and deployment of accomplishments related to product safety activities (including enhanced risk assessments and manual) Innovation Planning Department / 2. Further reinforcement of product safety system Legal Department) 1. Further strengthening the PDCA cycle for autonomous risk management at the company as well as domestic and overseas Group companies Risk Risk assessment and management 2. Regular implementation of risk assessment management (Management Audit Department) 3. Thoroughly implementing company-wide horizontal deployment of advanced cases using database 126 Area Priority item (responsibility) Results from CSR activities in FY2010 CSR Action Plans for FY2011 and beyond 1. Distribution of the 2010 CSR Report to all Group company employees in Japan (86,000 copies) 1. Distribution of the 2011 CSR Report to all domestic Group company Broadened CSR awareness 2. Presidential Town Meetings held at ten locations and CSR training sessions held employees (CSR Committee / CSR Department) at nine locations 2. Top Town Meeting held 5 times a year by the President and Vice-Presi3. Symbolic CSR activities conducted almost fully as planned in keeping with MHI’s dent and CSR Training effected at all locations CSR Action Guidelines 1. Activities conducted as per CSR Action Guidelines (1) Community contribution activities: ship launching ceremonies open to the public, health counseling sessions, elderly home visits, charity events 1. Continuing and expanding community contribution activities (cleaning, (2) Next generation development activities: Elementary School Soccer Competition, charity, etc.) and next-generation development (science classes, product Kid’s Baseball Clinic, factory tours, science classes, product making workshops making workshops for children, etc.) Socially beneficial activities 2. CSR activities conducted at Group companies domestically and overseas 2. Promoting the globalization of CSR activities including to overseas Group (CSR Department) (1) Japan: Tree Planting by the Employee Fund, internships, Kid's Baseball Clinic companies (2) Overseas: Thailanddonations for equipment for elementary schools; Brazil3. Conducting various support activities for victims of the Great East Japan Christmas presents provided to care facilities; Chinadonations of heaters, Earthquake CSR etc. to elementary schools; Philippinesdonations of blood, used clothes and used computers Promotion Strengthening information 1. Dissemination of information about new technologies and products that contribute dissemination to energy efficiency and environmental conservation 1. Positioning energy and the environment as strategic businesses and (Corporate Communication 2. Corporate advertisements in newspapers, issue of periodicals (PR magazine “MHI disseminating information Department) Graph,” etc.), CSR advertisements in the Kansai Region 2. Promoting a global advertisement strategy by building an integrated 1. Enhancement of brand value 3. Factory tours for individual investors (Kobe Shipyard & Machinery Works, Yokohama corporate image concerning the environment Dockyard & Machinery Works), briefings for individual investors (Nagasaki, Mitsubi3. Increasing events for investors using operational hubs in Japan and 2. Enhancement of corporate image shi Minatomirai Industrial Museum), website usability improvements (added stock overseas 3. Promotion of IR activities information, and access ranking indications) 4. Responding systematically to both the tangible (staff training) and 4. Improvement of the Mitsubishi 4. Facility renovations (Aerospace Zone) resulting in a cumulative total of over intangible (exhibit refurbishment) aspects Minatomirai Industrial Museum 1,700,000 visitors 1. Establishment of the MHI Group CSR Promotion Guidelines under which briefings 1. Promoting improvement activities based on collection and analysis of CSR procurement were held both at business partners and in-house and surveys were made at survey responses by business partner (Procurement Planning & Adminisbusiness partners 2. Monitoring of procurement-related laws and regulations and effecting tration Department, Procurement & Sourcing Department) 2. Audits and monitoring related procurement improvement follow-ups 3. Reduction of transportation energy (FY2006 basic units: 96 attained out of 100) 3. Reducing transportation energy 1. Strengthening the compliance framework supporting our global business 1. Development and implementation of compliance measures with respect to overseas promotional efforts Thorough compliance (Compliance Group companies 2. Examining and providing responses to the Public Works Business Process Committee) 2. Maintenance of high completion rate while expanding the subject matter of compliValidation and Advisory Committee recommendations (such as establishance promotion training to 117 themes (FY2010: 96.5%) ment of a external contact point for consultation and reporting on any illegal or inappropriate activity) 1. Sharing information and verification of status of activities by Order Compliance 1. Verifying the status of order compliance activities by the Order CompliCommittee based on reports from each department ance Committee 2. Verification of appropriate implementation of order compliance measures through Order compliance (Order Compli2. Conducting special monitoring that is both effective and efficient special monitoring ance Committee) 3. Promoting order compliance awareness and training activities 3. Evaluation by the Public Works Business Process Validation and Advisory ComCompliance 4. Executing the recommendations of the Public Works Business Process mittee that the present bid-rigging prevention efforts and recurrence prevention Validation and Advisory Committee measures are sufficient. 1. Verifying thoroughly the Installation Organizational Chart Register prior 1. Routine workshops held (951 participants) Compliance with the Construction to construction 2. Briefings on the Construction Business Act held for business partners (292 Business Act 2. Constructing a legal compliance framework for Group companies and participants) (Construction Business Act Complimonitoring basic compliance items ance Committee) 3. Compilation of Q&A by Specialist Meeting regarding Group company legal compli3. Continuing contract compliance activities (monitoring, etc.) with business ance system partners Compliance with export-related 1. Continuing and fortifying e-Learning and other company-wide training 1. e-Learning programs (9,895 cumulative participants) laws and regulations (International efforts 2. Regular audits for Group companies by the primary supervising department Trade Control Committee) 2. Supporting Group companies to ensure proper export management 1. CO2 emissions reduction of 7.8% (single-year FY2010) surpassing the 6% target Attaining self-proclaimed CO2 reduction targets 2. Monitoring system introduced (2010, Industrial Machinery Business, Technology & 1. Promoting CO2 reduction measures (introduction of or upgrade to energySolutions Division) to visualize energy usage volume Reduced CO2 emissions (Environsaving equipment; efficient operation of private generators) 3. Acquisition of target emission credits (119,000 tons) and equipment upgrades to ment Committee) 2. Upgrading to air-conditioners based on the In-house Air-Conditioner energy-saving types mainly for compressors, transformers and lighting Upgrade Plan 4. Introduction of cumulative 2,110 kW solar panels in-house in FY2009, plus Environment 3. Verifying monitoring system introduction effects another 101 kW introduced in single employee dormitories in FY2010 1. Total of 91 domestic and 27 overseas Group companies introduced environmental 1. Promoting initial acquisition of environmental ISO certification for Group ISO standards Group environmental management companies in Japan and overseas 2. Group-wide promotion of environmental management activities following common (Environment Committee) 2. Promote activities for achieving the common targets of Group companies targets for all Group companies 3. Continue to hold environmental meetings (of 16 companies) 3. Periodical audits (18 companies) and environmental meetings (15 companies) held 1. Meetings of the Committee for Raising Awareness of Human Rights and Works 1. Holding committee meetings annually Raising awareness of human rights Committee held 2. Introducing human rights issues in each training program and continuing (Committee for Raising Awareness 2. Power harassment training for managers held (e-Learning) implementation of Human Rights) 3. Training of sexual harassment counseling supervisor and counselors 3. Strengthening awareness of sexual and power harassment prevention 1. Meetings of the Committee for Raising Awareness of Human Rights and Works Committee Promote employment of the differheld 1. Conducting hiring activities proactively aiming for a 2% hiring rate ently-abled people (Committee for 2. Meetings of staff in charge of recruiting differently-abled persons held (monthly follow-ups of status of activities) the Promotion of Employment of the Handicapped) 3. Compliance to legal reform 2. Holding committee meetings annually 4. Survey and report of hiring status reports for domestic consolidated Group companies 1. Examining possibilities for global human resource development (G-MAP) and conducting trials Human rights 1. Career Design Training and other company-wide standard training conducted to Examining possibilities for management development training program and labor provide basic knowledge to junior and mid-level employees and conducting trials Road map for cultivation of global human resources drafted Continuing to implement and build training programs for Group Creating a better workplace 2. e-Learning program for managers formulated reflecting results of mental health companies (Personnel Department) analyses 2. Company-wide development of e-Learning as a mental health training 1. Enriched education Operation of short-term work system for long time absentees tool 2. Strengthening mental health 3. Utilization of retired employees 3. Rehiring rate increased by 14% from 59% in the first half of 2007 to 73% in the Examining possibilities for a system whereby prevention and recurrence 4. Nurturing the next generation latter half of 2010 prevention efforts can be integrated 4. Discussion meetings held between employees on childcare leave and those who 3. Examining possibilities for people over 60 years of age whereby employhave childcare leave experience and efforts outside the system made to support ees would elect to extend their retirement age their return to work (implementation from 2013 retirees) 4. Expanding next-generation development and work-life balance support system and encouraging its publicity and understanding 1. Additional reform and improvements for nuclear power QMS 1. Promoting QMS sophistication and continual improvement with an eye on Ensuring quality and safety of 2. Promotion of sophistication of preventive maintenance and safety through informaGlobal business development nuclear business tion sharing 2. Harnessing our comprehensive technological strengths and increasing (Managing Board for Innovation in the Nuclear Business) 3. Establishment of ethics training system and commencement of tasks to publicize customer satisfaction levels Product information 3. Focusing on compliance and fostering a culture of safety responsibility 1. Company-wide product safety activities (improvement of risk assessments and Product safety (Production System 1. Developing product safety activities in our QMS manuals) Innovation Planning Department / 2. Formulating the basis for product safety activities (providing support, 2. Briefings held on the importance and necessity of product safety activities and Legal Department) determining standards, developing human resources) product safety information provided 1. Risk Management Operation Procedures established for Group-wide risk manage1. Working to share awareness of important risks among all divisions and ment and risk management system expanded and strengthened through the new corporate groups for the effective operation of the risk management Risk Risk assessment and management establishment of the Risk Management Supervisors Meeting PDCA cycle management (Management Audit Department) 2. Regarding vital, high-priority risks, efforts were made to examine control strength2. Establishment of a PDCA cycle relating to the various activities of the ening measures and verify the status of tasks and internal audits were conducted divisions and corporate groups and expansion of internal audits 127 CSR Medium-Term Action Plan for FY2011 to FY2013 CSR targets for the period between FY2011 to FY2013 were established as follows based on the results of activities effected between FY2008 and FY2010 Area Priority item Medium-term Results from CSR CSR Action Plans for (responsibility) targets (FY2008– activities in FY2010 FY2011 and beyond 2010) CSR Broadened CSR 1. Broaden CSR 1. Distribution of 1. Distribution of the Promotion awareness awareness the 2010 CSR 2011 CSR Report (CSR Committee / across the Group Report to all to all domestic CSR Department) and promote selfGroup company Group company directed activities employees in employees of individual Japan (86,000 2. Top Town departments copies) Meeting held 5 2. Selection and 2. Presidential times a year by implementation of Town Meetings the President and unified activity held at ten Vice-President themes for the locations and and CSR Training entire Group CSR training effected at all (representative sessions held at locations CSR activities) nine locations based on the 3. Symbolic CSR CSR Action activities Guidelines conducted almost fully as planned in keeping with MHI's CSR Action Guidelines Socially beneficial 1. Energizing 1. Activities 1. Continuing and activities (CSR activities in line conducted as expanding Department) with the social per CSR Action community contribution Guidelines contribution policy of the (1) Community activities entire company contribution (cleaning, charity, (community activities: ship etc.) and nextcontribution and launching generation nurturing the next ceremonies development generation) and open to the (science classes, instilling a sense public, health product making of unity across counseling workshops for the Group sessions, elderly children, etc.) 2. Raising the level home visits, 2. Promoting the of all activities by charity events globalization of exchanging (2) Next CSR activities information generation including to among development overseas Group departments and activities: companies energizing Elementary 3. Conducting activities of School Soccer various support Group companies Competition, activities for 3. Building a Kid's Baseball victims of the structure to Clinic, factory Great East Japan support tours, science Earthquake participation of classes, product employees in making social workshops 128 contribution 2. CSR activities activities conducted at Group companies domestically and overseas (1) Japan: Tree Planting by the Employee Fund, internships, Kid's Baseball Clinic (2) Overseas: Thailanddonations for equipment for elementary schools; BrazilChristmas presents provided to care facilities; Chinadonations of heaters, etc. to elementary schools; Philippinesdonations of blood, used clothes and used computers Strengthening 1. Gain wider 1. Dissemination 1. Positioning information recognition and of information energy and the dissemination improve about new environment as (Corporate evaluation of the technologies strategic Communication company’s and products businesses and Department) environmental that contribute disseminating 1. Enhancement protection efforts to energy information of brand value 2. Promote PR to efficiency and 2. Promoting a concerning improve the environmental global the corporate image conservation advertisement environment 3. Increase the 2. Corporate strategy by 2. Enhancement number of advertisements building an of corporate shareholders who in newspapers, integrated image hold the issue of corporate image 3. Promotion of company’s stocks periodicals (PR 3. Increasing events IR activities longer (fan) magazine “MHI for investors using 4. Improvement 4. Attract 140,000 Graph,” etc.), operational hubs of the visitors a year CSR in Japan and Mitsubishi advertisements overseas Minatomirai in the Kansai 4. Responding Industrial Region systematically to Museum 3. Factory tours both the tangible for individual (staff training) and investors (Kobe intangible (exhibit Shipyard & refurbishment) Machinery aspects Works, Yokohama Dockyard & 129 Machinery Works), briefings for individual investors (Nagasaki, Mitsubishi Minatomirai Industrial Museum), website usability improvements (added stock information, and access ranking indications) 4. Facility renovations (Aerospace Zone) resulting in a cumulative total of over 1,700,000 visitors CSR procurement 1. Penetration of 1. Establishment 1. Promoting (Procurement CSR of the MHI improvement Planning & Procurement Group CSR activities based Administration Guidelines and Promotion on collection and Department, strengthened Guidelines analysis of survey Procurement & PDCA cycle under which responses by Sourcing 2. Compliance with briefings were business partner Department) REACH held both at 2. Monitoring of Regulation and business procurementothers partners and inrelated laws and 3. Deepened house and regulations and activities for surveys were effecting further reducing made at improvement energy use in business follow-ups transportation partners 3. Reducing 2. Audits and transportation monitoring energy related procurement 3. Reduction of transportation energy (FY2006 basic units: 96 attained out of 100) Compliance Thorough 1. Establishment of 1. Development 1. Strengthening the compliance promotion system and compliance (Compliance across the Group implementation framework Committee) and unified of compliance supporting our activity content measures with global business 2. Implementation respect to promotional of compliance overseas Group efforts training that is companies 2. Examining and well-developed in 2. Maintenance of providing terms of both high completion responses to the awareness and rate while Public Works 130 knowledge expanding the Business Process subject matter Validation and of compliance Advisory promotion Committee training to 117 recommendations themes (such as (FY2010: establishment of a 96.5%) external contact point for consultation and reporting on any illegal or inappropriate activity) Order compliance Maintaining zero 1. Sharing 1. Verifying the (Order violations of the Antiinformation and status of order Compliance Monopoly Act verification of compliance Committee) (continued order status of activities by the compliance activities) activities by Order Compliance Order Committee Compliance 2. Conducting Committee special monitoring based on that is both reports from effective and each efficient department 3. Promoting order 2. Verification of compliance appropriate awareness and implementation training activities of order 4. Executing the compliance recommendations measures of the Public through special Works Business monitoring Process 3. Evaluation by Validation and the Public Advisory Works Business Committee Process Validation and Advisory Committee that the present bidrigging prevention efforts and recurrence prevention measures are sufficient. Compliance with 1. Improvement of 1. Routine 1. Verifying the Construction on-site workshops held thoroughly the Business Act compliance level (951 Installation (Construction 2. Establishment of participants) Organizational Business Act the system for 2. Briefings on the Chart Register Compliance compliance Construction prior to Committee) 3. Support of the Business Act construction Group companies held for 2. Constructing a in compliance business legal compliance partners (292 framework for participants) Group companies 131 3. Compilation of and monitoring Q&A by basic compliance Specialist items Meeting 3. Continuing regarding Group contract company legal compliance compliance activities system (monitoring, etc.) with business partners Compliance with 1. Enhancing sure 1. e-Learning 1. Continuing and export-related export control programs (9,895 fortifying elaws and management at cumulative Learning and regulations individual participants) other company(International departments and 2. Regular audits wide training Trade Control cultivating for Group efforts Committee) experts in export companies by 2. Supporting Group management the primary companies to 2. Further supervising ensure proper strengthening department export effective export management control management system by Group companies Environment Reduced CO2 Ensuring 1. CO2 emissions Attaining selfemissions achievement of the reduction of proclaimed CO2 (Environment voluntary reduction 7.8% (singlereduction targets Committee) target for CO2 year FY2010) 1. Promoting CO2 emissions surpassing the reduction 1. Visualization of 6% target measures energy usage 2. Monitoring (introduction of or and system upgrade to implementation of introduced energy-saving energy (2010, Industrial equipment; conservation by Machinery efficient operation eliminating waste Business, of private 2. Obtaining Technology & generators) necessary Solutions 2. Upgrading to airemission credits Division) to conditioners and visualize energy based on the Insystematically usage volume house Airintroducing 3. Acquisition of Conditioner energy-saving target emission Upgrade Plan equipment credits (119,000 3. Verifying 3. Installation of tons) and monitoring system additional equipment introduction photovoltaic upgrades to effects facilities to bring energy-saving cumulative total types mainly for across the compressors, company to more transformers than 2,000 kW and lighting 4. Introduction of cumulative 2,110 kW solar panels in-house in FY2009, plus another 101 kW introduced in single employee 132 dormitories in FY2010 Group 1. Completing 1. Total of 91 1. Promoting initial environmental introduction of domestic and 27 acquisition of management environmental overseas Group environmental (Environment ISO in Group companies ISO certification Committee) companies in introduced for Group Japan environmental companies in ISO standards Jap n a nd environmental 2. Group-wide oversea management promotion of 2. Promote activities activities by the environmental for achieving the Group acting as management common targets one activities of Group 3. Implementation following companies of regular audits common targets 3. Continue to hold of Group for all Group environmental companies and companies meetings (of 16 round-table 3. Periodical companies) conferences audits (18 companies) and environmental meetings (15 companies) held Human Raising Broaden 1. Meetings of the 1. Holding rights and awareness of understanding and Committee for committee labor human rights awareness regarding Raising meetings annually (Committee for human right issues Awareness of 2. Introducing Raising across the company Human Rights human rights Awareness of and implement and Works issues in each Human Rights) initiatives to prevent Committee held training program sexual and power 2. Power and continuing harassment harassment implementation training for 3. Strengthening managers held awareness of (e-Learning) sexual and power 3. Training of harassment sexual prevention harassment counseling supervisor and counselors Promote Maintenance and 1. Meetings of the 1. Conducting hiring employment of the expansion of Committee for activities differently-abled employment level Raising proactively aiming people exceeding legal Awareness of for a 2% hiring (Committee for the mandate, and Human Rights rate (monthly Promotion of promotion of and Works follow-ups of Employment of the systematic Committee held status of Handicapped) employment by 2. Meetings of activities) individual staff in charge 2. Holding departments of recruiting committee differently-abled meetings annually persons held 3. Compliance to legal reform 4. Survey and report of hiring status reports for domestic consolidated Group 133 companies Creating a better 1. Further enhance 1. Career Design 1. Examining workplace the environment Training and possibilities for (Personnel for carefully other companyglobal human Department) nurturing wide standard resource 1. Enriched valuable human training development (Geducation resources conducted to MAP) and 2. Strengthening 2. Implementation provide basic conducting trials mental health of effective knowledge to Examining 3. Utilization of measures, junior and midpossibilities for retired starting from the level employees management employees prevention of Road map for development 4. Nurturing the mental health cultivation of training program next disorders to global human and conducting generation supporting resources trials employees in drafted Continuing to returning to work 2. e-Learning implement and 3. Further program for build training increasing the managers programs for rehiring rate formulated Group companies (more than 60%) reflecting results 2. Company-wide 4. Maintaining of mental health development of eKurumin (next analyses Learning as a generation Operation of mental health nurturing support) short-term work training tool certification mark system for long Examining time absentees possibilities for a 3. Rehiring rate system whereby increased by prevention and 14% from 59% recurrence in the first half of prevention efforts 2007 to 73% in can be integrated the latter half of 3. Examining 2010 possibilities for 4. Discussion people over 60 meetings held years of age between whereby employees on employees would childcare leave elect to extend and those who their retirement have childcare age leave (implementation experience and from 2013 efforts outside retirees) the system 4. Expanding nextmade to support generation their return to development and work work-life balance support system and encouraging its publicity and understanding Product Ensuring quality 1. Establishment of 1. Additional 1. Promoting QMS responsibility and safety of an integrated reform and sophistication and nuclear business QMS (Quality improvements continual (Managing Board Management for nuclear improvement with for Innovation in System) across power QMS an eye on Global the Nuclear the headquarters 2. Promotion of business Business) and works and sophistication of development construction of an preventive 2. Harnessing our autonomous maintenance comprehensive framework and safety technological 39 134 2. Further through strengths and improvement of information increasing plant reliability sharing customer 3. Nurturing a 3. Establishment satisfaction levels climate that does of ethics training 3. Focusing on not allow system and compliance and compliance commencement fostering a culture violations and of tasks to of safety earning the public publicize trust through information ongoing dissemination of information Product safety 1. Utilization, 1. Company-wide 1. Developing (Production spread and product safety product safety System Innovation deployment of activities activities in our Planning accomplishments (improvement of Quality Department / related to product risk Management Legal Department) safety activities assessments System (including and manuals) 2. Formulating the enhanced risk 2. Briefings held basis for product assessments and on the safety activities manual) importance and (providing 2. Further necessity of support, reinforcement of product safety determining product safety activities and standards, system product safety developing information human resources) provided Risk Risk assessment 1. Further 1. Risk 1. Working to share management and management strengthening the Management awareness of (Management PDCA cycle for Operation important risks Audit Department) autonomous risk Procedures among all management at established for divisions and the company as Group-wide risk corporate groups well as domestic management for the effective and overseas and risk operation of the Group companies management risk management 2. Regular system PDCA cycle implementation of expanded and 2. Establishment of risk assessment strengthened a PDCA cycle 3. Thoroughly through the new relating to the implementing establishment of various activities company-wide the Risk of the divisions horizontal Management and corporate deployment of Supervisors groups and advanced cases Meeting expansion of using database 2. Regarding vital, internal audits high-priority risks, efforts were made to examine control strengthening measures and verify the status of tasks and internal audits were conducted 135 Recognition from Society Year Month Award Name Organization / Item Awarded by Awarded Awarded 2010 April Certificate of Appreciation Mitsubishi Heavy Japanese Red Cross for Relief Funds for 2004 Industries, Ltd. Society Indian Ocean Earthquake and Tsunami April 39th Japan Industrial Mitsubishi Heavy Minister of Education, Technology Awards, Minister Industries, Ltd., and 11 Culture, Sports, of Education and Science other companies Science and Culture, Sports, Science and Technology Technology Prize (for the HTV/H-IIB launch vehicle) April The Nikkan Kogyo Shimbun Mitsubishi Heavy Nikkan Kogyo Award, 39th Japan Industrial Industries, Ltd., and 11 Shimbun, Ltd. Technology Award, (for the other companies HTV/H-IIB launch vehicle) May 48th Award of The Society of Received jointly by The Society of Heating, Air-Conditioning Mitsubishi Heavy Heating, Airand Sanitary Engineers of Industries, Ltd., and Conditioning and Japan other companies Sanitary Engineers of Japan May Award for Best OEM in Power Systems, Tenaga Nasional Power Generation Sector for Mitsubishi Heavy Berhad Long-Term Maintenance at Industries, Ltd. Port Dickson GTCC Power Plant May Certificate of Commendation Nagoya Guidance & Aichi Prefecture for Prevention of Disasters Propulsion Systems Explosives Safety by Explosives Works, Mitsubishi Association Heavy Industries, Ltd. June Chunichi Shimbun Mitsubishi Heavy Chunichi Shimbun Newspaper Advertising Industries, Ltd. Co., Ltd. Award, Residential & Financial Sections, Environmental Advertising in Nagoya Area June Certificate of Appreciation Nagoya Guidance & Komaki City Plant & for Crime Prevention & Propulsion Systems Workplace Crime Sound Nurturing of Youth Works, Mitsubishi Prevention Heavy Industries, Ltd. Association, Komaki Police Station, Aichi Prefectural Police September 2nd Robots and Society Nuclear Energy The Robotics Society Awards Systems, Mitsubishi of Japan Heavy Industries, Ltd. September Certificate of Commendation Nagoya Guidance & Komaki city, Safety for Excellence in Traffic Propulsion Systems driving management Safety Works, Mitsubishi conference, Komaki Heavy Industries, Ltd. Police Station, Aichi Prefectural Police 136 September City of Nagasaki Certificate Nishinihon Ryoju City of Nagasaki of Commendation for Estate Co., Ltd. Excellence in Construction, Municipal EbiraHamahira Road Improvement Work October Certificate of General Machinery & Cities of Yokohama, Commemoration for Global Special Vehicle, Kawasaki, Warming Prevention in Mitsubishi Heavy Sagamihara, Fiscal 2010 Industries, Ltd. Kanagawa Prefecture October Equal Participation Prize, Nagasaki Shipyard & City of Nagasaki Kira Kids Nursery, for female Machinery Works, technical field hiring Mitsubishi Heavy Industries, Ltd. October Special Prize in the Nagasaki Shipyard & Excellence Company Excellence in Company Machinery Works, History Award History Prizes, Nagasaki Mitsubishi Heavy selection committee, Shipyard & Machinery Industries, Ltd. Japan Business Works 150 Years of History, History Institute Tales of Nagasen November 2nd Place in Ranking for Website, Mitsubishi Nikko Investor Website Richness of All Heavy Industries, Ltd. Relations Co., Inc. Listed Companies by Sector (Machinery) November 6th Place in Ranking of Best Website, Mitsubishi Japan Brand Corporate Information Heavy Industries, Ltd. Strategy, Inc. Website by Sector (Machinery and Transport Equipment) November Certificate of Appreciation Yokohama Works, Japan Office, World for Participation in Kids Power Systems, Food Programme, Energy Quest Mitsubishi Heavy United Nations Industries, Ltd. November Special Certificate of Kobe Shipyard & Japanese Red Cross Appreciation for Machinery Works, Society Distinguished Business Mitsubishi Heavy Practices (Part of Blood Industries, Ltd., and 18 Donation Service) other companies November The Safety Award for the Dubai Rapid Link Roads and Transport best contractor 2010 (the Consortium (DURL), a Authority, first winner) consortium of five Government of companies including Dubai, the United Mitsubishi Heavy Arab Emirates Industries, Ltd. November Citation of Special Merit for Takasago Machinery Takasago City Donation of Proceeds from Works, Power Council of Social the Mitsubishi Heavy Systems, Mitsubishi Welfare Industries Charity Concert Heavy Industries, Ltd. and Mitsubishi Takasago Summer Festival Charity Bazaar December 59th Nikkei Advertising Mitsubishi Heavy Nikkei Inc. Award for Excellence in Industries, Ltd. Environmental Advertising 137 December Web Grandprix Nominee, Kids Land website, IBM Japan, Ltd. Student sector, 4th Japan Mitsubishi Heavy Web Grandprix Industries, Ltd. December Good Office for Trash Kanazawa Plant, Resources & Waste Separation, Yokoyama Yokohama Works, Recycling Bureau, Environmental Action Award Power Systems, City of Yokohama (6th consecutive year) Mitsubishi Heavy Industries, Ltd. December Good Office for Trash Honmoku Plant, Resources & Waste Separation, Yokoyama Yokohama Works, Recycling Bureau, Environmental Action Award Power Systems, City of Yokohama (5th consecutive year) Mitsubishi Heavy Industries, Ltd. December Certificate of Appreciation Hayabusa Project Minister of State for for Distinguished Persons in Support Team Space Development, Hayabusa Asteroid Explorer (composed of 118 Minister of Education, Project organizations) Culture, Sports, Science and Technology 2011 January Certificate of Appreciation Nagoya Guidance & Komaki Police for Understanding and Propulsion Systems Station, Aichi Cooperation with Police Works, Mitsubishi Prefectural Police Duties Heavy Industries, Ltd. February Special Award for Cross Mitsubishi Heavy The Kobe Shimbun Communication, Kobe Industries, Ltd. Shimbun Newspaper Advertising Awards 138 Progress Toward a Sustainable Society MHI's Activities Year Major Events in Japan and Abroad ( : Society / : ( : Society / : Environment) Environment) Japan World 1948 Universal Declaration of Human Rights. 1967 Institution of Basic Law for Environmental Pollution Control. 1970 Completion of 1970 Japan's first PWR power plant. 1971 Establishment of Environment Agency. 1972 United Nations Conference on the Human Environment convenes in Stockholm. Adoption of Statement for Human Environmental Quality. Establishment of United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP). 1973 Inauguration of Environment Management Department. 1976 OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises issued. 1977 Development of Basic Guidelines for Safety & Health Management. 1978 Creation of Environmental Manager Conferences. 1980 Establishment of 1980 Committee on Promotion of Training in the Dowa Issue. 1981 Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women went into effect. International Year of Disabled Persons. 1985 Enactment of Equal Employment Opportunity Law. 1987 Establishment of 1987 Enactment of Ozone Export-related Layer Protection Law. 139 Regulations Monitoring Committee. 1988 Launch of In-house Conference on CO2 Measures and In-house Conference on CFC Measures. 1989 Launch of Inhouse Conference on CO2 Measures and In-house Conference on CFC Measures. 1990 1990 Institution of Americans with Disabilities Act. 1991 Establishment of Keidanren Global Environmental Charter. Establishment of Keidanren Charter of Corporate Behavior. Enactment of Child Care Leave Law. 1992 Committee on 1992 Ministry of 1992 United Nations Promotion of International Trade and Conference on Training in the Dowa Industry requests Environment and Issue renamed Voluntary Plan on the Development (Earth Committee for Environment. Summit) convenes in Rio Raising Awareness de Janeiro; adoption of Rio of Human Rights. Declaration on Establishment of Environment and Committee for the Development and Agenda Promotion of 21. Employment of the Handicapped. 1993 Formulation of 1993 Enactment of Basic voluntary plan Environmental Law. entitled, Our Approach to Environmental Problems. 1994 Caux Round Table draws up Principles for Business. 1995 Child Care Leave Law 1995 1st Conference of the revamped into Child Parties to the United Care and Family Care Nations Convention on Leave Law. Climate Change (COP1) convened in Berlin. 1996 Formulation of 1996 Revision of Keidanren 1996 ISO 14001 is instituted. Environmental Charter of Corporate 2nd Conference of the Policies and Behavior. Parties to the United establishment of Nations Framework Environment Convention on Climate Committee. Change (COP2) convened in Geneva. 1997 Acquisition of ISO 1997 Formulation of 1997 3rd Conference of the 140 14001 certification Keidanren Voluntary Parties to the United by Yokohama Action Plan on the Nations Framework Machinery Works, a Environment. Convention on Climate first for Japan's Change (COP3) convened heavy industry in Kyoto. manufacturers. Launch of R410Acompatible airconditioners. (R410A: new type of environment-friendly refrigerant) 1998 Development of 1998 Enactment of Law 1998 4th Conference of the system that Concerning the Parties to the United thermally Promotion of Measures Nations Framework decomposes PCBs to Cope with Global Convention on Climate contained in Warming. Change (COP4) convened industrial effluents. Enactment of Law to in Buenos Aires. Promote Specified Nonprofit Activities. 1999 Delivery of 1999 Enactment of 1999 5th Conference of the combined-cycle Pollutant Release and Parties to the United power plant Transfer Register Nations Framework incorporating the (PRTR) Law. Convention on Climate M701G gas turbine, Change (COP5) convened featuring the world's in Bonn. highest efficiency rating. 2000 ISO 14001 2000 2000 2000 Enactment of 2000 6th Conference of the certification acquired The Basic Law for Parties to the United by all production Establishing a Nations Framework bases (13 works). Recycling-based Convention on Climate Society. Change (COP6) convened Revision of Law for in The Hague. the Promotion of United Nations Global Recycled Resources Compact is instituted. Utilization. Issuance of GRI Enactment of Sustainability Reporting Construction Material Guidelines Version 1. Recycling Law, Food Recycling Law and Law on Promoting Green Purchasing. 2001 Acquisition of ISO 2001 Establishment of 2001 7th Conference of the 14001 certification Ministry of the Parties to the United by Engineering Environment. Nations Framework Department. Enactment of Law Convention on Climate Establishment of Concerning Special Change (COP7) convened Compliance Measures against PCB in Marrakech. Committee. Waste. ISO Council launches Enactment of feasibility study on Fluorocarbons Recovery establishing international and Destruction Law. CSR standards. 2002 Establishment of 2002 Ratification of Kyoto 2002 World Summit for mediumto longProtocol. Sustainable Development term environmental Enactment of Soil convened in activity goals. Contamination Johannesburg. Countermeasures Law. 8th Conference of the Nippon Keidanren Parties to the United revamps Keidanren 141 Charter of Corporate Nations Framework Behavior into Corporate Convention on Climate Behavior Charter. Change (COP8) convened First meeting of CSR in New Delhi. Standardization GRI Sustainability Committee held by Reporting Guidelines Ministry of Economy, Version 2 released. Trade and Industry. 2003 Establishment of 2003 2003 Trial project for 2003 First study meeting held Construction trading of greenhouse to discuss treaty on safety Business Act gas emissions of radioactive waste Compliance implemented by Ministry management. Committee. of the Environment. 9th Conference of the Emissions standards Parties to the United for diesel vehicles Nations Framework tightened. Convention on Climate Revision of Waste Change (COP9) convened Management and Public in Milan. Cleansing Law. Japan Committee for Economic Development releases 15th Corporate White Paper, entitled, Evolution of Market and Social ResponsibilityMinded Business Management. 2004 Joined United 2004 Tenth item (on Nations Global corruption prevention) Compact initiative. added to United Nations Establishment of Global Compact. 10th Managing Board for Conference of the Parties Innovation in the to the United Nations Nuclear Business. Framework Convention on Climate Change (COP10) convened in Buenos Aires. 2005 Introduction of 2005 Enactment of Act on 2005 Kyoto Protocol goes into Executive Officer the Protection of force. system. Personal Information. 11th Conference of the Establishment of Parties to the United Internal Audit Nations Framework Department. Convention on Climate Establishment of Change (COP11) and the CSR Center. 1st Meeting of the Parties Establishment of to the Kyoto Protocol Order Compliance (COP/MOP1) convened in Committee. Montreal. 2006 Acquisition of ISO 2006 Enactment of New 2006 GRI Sustainability 14001 certification Company Law. Reporting Guidelines by Head Office New National Energy Version 3 released. (including branch Strategy formulated. 12th Conference of the offices). Parties to the United Establishment of Nations Framework CSR Committee. Convention on Climate Establishment of Change (COP12) CSR Department. convened in Nairobi. EU announced target of reducing CO2 emissions by 20% compared to 1990 levels by 2020. 142 2007 Establishment of 2007 21st Century 2007 Fourth Assessment CSR Action Environmental Nation Report released by the Guidelines. Strategy formulated. United Nations Enactment of the Intergovernmental Panel revised Consumer on Climate Change Products Safety Law. (IPCC). 2008 Development of 2008 Application of internal CSR Action Plan. control report system based on the Financial Instruments and Exchange Act (J-SOX) started. Holding of the G8 Hokkaido Toyako Summit. Revision of Act Concerning the Rational Use of Energy. 2009 Revision of Soil 2009 The Green New Deal Contamination advocated by the U.S. is Countermeasures Law. embraced by countries across the globe. 2010 Achievement of 2010 Cabinet determines 2010 15th Conference of the zero emission at all Basic Law for Parties to the United locations Prevention of Global Nations Framework Establishment of Warming Convention on Climate the Accident Exhibit Cabinet determines Change (COP 15) and Materials Room 2010 National Strategy convened in Copenhagen. Establishment of for the Conservation and COP10 10th Conference the CSR Promotion Sustainable Use of of the Parties to the Section of the Biological Diversity Convention on Biological Presidential Revision of the Waste Diversity held in Nagoya Administration Office Disposal Act Adoption of the Nagoya Revision of the Air Protocol and Aichi Target Pollution Control Law CSR Standards (ISO Revision of the Water 26000) issued Pollution Prevention Act 143 Main third-party opinions on past CSR reports and our responses Main opinions on the 2010 report and our responses 1. In order to improve your report, please include opinions and comments from society and bring in stakeholders to participate. The 2011 report has contributions from various stakeholders, including customers and school teachers both in Japan and overseas. These can be found in the Feature Article, the social responsibility reports Commitment to our Customers, Commitment to our Shareholders & Investors and Contributions to Society. In A bridge to the next Generation, we feature dialogues with NPOs and elementary school head teachers as well as other material created with the cooperation of stakeholders. 2. I would like to see the same report issued and appreciated worldwide. The 2011 report contains details on CSR activities at overseas locations in the Feature Article entitled Close ties with Society such as MHI's involvement with the community in Thailand, the volunteer work done by its locally hired employees there and donations for the construction of a new elementary school. 3. I would like your report to show us what kind of attitude your employees have toward their own job at MHI and whether they feel any social significance in what they do. The Feature Article and Employees Introduce Our CSR Activities in the 2011 report include stories about the achievements of employees who take every opportunity to engage in CSR activities to lift morale at work and details about those CSR activities themselves. Main opinions on the 2009 report and our responses 1. Please make it easier to understand for lay people, more interesting and improve readability. The 2010 report includes a section entitled Dialogue by renowned journalist Akira Ikegami, who is committed to describing difficult subjects simply, written in a way so that management's concepts and stance towards CSR are conveyed clearly. We also made efforts to improve general readability such as increasing the size of the print and photos. 2. You should have more reactions from people where CSR activities were conducted. The 2010 report includes a new page entitled, Employees Introduce Our CSR Activities featuring contributions from employees involved in CSR activities on-site. 3. I would like the report to include independent midto long-term CO2 reduction targets as well as the formulation and announcement of a road map for the attainment of targets based on MHI technology. In the 2010 report, the section entitled Dialogue describes in detail our CO2 reduction targets and the annual amount of CO2 eliminated through the use of our products. 144 Main opinions on the 2008 report and our responses 1. I would like to see your report include MHI's vision for a long-term energy mix. In the 2009 report's feature article entitled Close ties with the Earth lays out MHI's vision regarding a long-term energy mix through the realization of the 3E's, namely energy security, environmental protection and economic sustainable growth. 2. The report should include MHI's efforts to support labor, human rights and coexistence with the community on-site. The 2009 report's feature article, Close ties with Society, describes on-site occupational accident prevention measures and safety training as well as efforts to maintain good relations with locally hired staff. 3. Please include information on the defense industry. The 2009 report's article Commitment to our Customers provides insight on MHI's concept and stance regarding the defense industry as well as some of the equipment we provide the military. 145 Third-Party Opinions, Acting on Third-Party Opinions Third-Party Opinions Masayasu Kitagawa Professor, The Okuma School of Public Management, Waseda University The past year saw huge changes in the way we think of CSR. First ISO 26000 was issued, then the creation of the International Integrated Reporting Committee was announced, and then companies began building a framework to integrate non-financial information into their financial reports. This movement's aim is to make the entire planet sustainable by elevating CSR to become a means of demonstrating the common values we all share in this global era and striving to enhance not only the economic value of corporations but also their social value. The Great East Japan Earthquake was the grave combination of a powerful tremor, tidal waves and a nuclear accident that together spawned a disaster that made us fundamentally rethink the sustainability of local communities and energy policies, and deeply tarnished the trustworthiness of Japan as a great manufacturing nation. Now is the time for CSR to not only be a part of corporate managerial practices but also to increase the realization of vital national activities with the aim of making the country and its communities sustainable. Japan's reliability must be restored. The MHI Group's humble report of its support of the recovery effort was well-received, however, I feel that in the wake of this great disaster of national proportions, a more aggressive public announcement could have been made. Such an announcement could have demonstrated the steely resolve of MHI to proactively contribute to the sustainability of Japan and the world. As one of the nation's leading corporations, I expect MHI to issue CSR reports that will propel the sustainability of the whole of Japan. With every year that passes, the significance of the sociability reports increases at MHI. They include descriptions of CSR activities involving not only company-wide efforts but also collaborations with stakeholders leading to concrete results from the interplay of three main themes in their corporate action plan. These reports demonstrate the full-scale penetration and broadening of CSR activities. his year's report also includes the efforts of the Accident Exhibit and Materials Room. Displaying accidents involving one's own products for all the world to see and using this information in employee training takes a lot of courage. The Room has become a place to bare the company's soul to employees and I was moved by the sincerity of this particular CSR activity, whose aim is to provide a feeling of unity with employees. Kumi Fujisawa Vice President, Think Tank SophiaBank What is the meaning of the rarely spoken phrase contributions to society by companies, which is now expressed in the modern term CSR? I believe this term is a call to companies to reveal the very essence of their existence. Although CSR is defined in many ways, its concept has been renewed in the wake of the recent disaster here in Japan to mean companies as creators of society. That disaster reaffirmed the value of earthquake-resistant construction and the strength of our infrastructure on the one hand, and the established presence of those companies who lent their support for a rapid recovery on the other. MHI was one of the companies that sent relief workers to hard-hit areas immediately after the quake and tsunami and worked to recover infrastructure. This disaster taught us all once again the role of companies in society. Companies exist to make society safer and more secure continually by gaining strength in their respective core competency, enhancing their technological prowess and realizing new creations. The backbone of these activities is the employee, who individually serves as a source of corporate contributions to his or her society 146 regardless of whether he or she thinks of themselves as a creator of that society. This year's MHI report includes a wealth of information from employees who work on-site and know first-hand the day-to-day operations of their organization. They convey persuasively the responsibility their company has toward society. In this respect, I would like to see MHI present its significance in society that includes its core competencies, much as they are demonstrating with the development of MHI's Eco-ship, which is a challenge to build a ship that can coexist with all living things on earth in addition to being economically efficient and high in safety. Eco-ships are entirely about social contribution and nothing else. I would like MHI to provide on paper a fresh perspective of the social significance of their varied core competencies as standard procedure. In addition, I would like to see the NPOs and NGOs, whose activities garnered attention in the aftermath of the recent disaster, continue their collaboration with the citizenry. I want the economic value created by companies as well as their technologies and other knowledge and networks to contribute to the safety and security of communities, including those unprofitable areas where businesses cannot be transplanted, working hand in hand across the globe with citizen-activists who reveal to us every nook and cranny of their society much like the body's capillary vessels. Acting on Valuable Opinions Shunichi Miyanaga Senior Executive Vice President Executive Officer in Charge of CSR At MHI, based on a creed citing our corporate obligation to be an innovative partner to society, we contribute to the future of the Earth and all its inhabitants through the provision of products and technologies that support social infrastructure. Every year our CSR report has presented an introduction to our mission as a manufacturer, but this year, in response to the opinions voiced last year, we have sought to make the report more peoplefocused and easier to understand. We have done so by incorporating views and expectations toward MHI held by our external stakeholders and more anecdotes about the commitments of our employees who support on-site operations and to whom the responsibility of effecting CSR activities befalls. This year, Mr. Kitagawa and Ms. Fujisawa honored us with their praise regarding our contributions toward recovery efforts in the wake of the Great East Japan Earthquake through the core competencies of the MHI Group. While we feel that the CSR activities of the MHI Group have achieved steady progress to date, more remains to be done in our quest to become a leading company that is trusted by society. Going forward, in line with Mr. Kitagawa’s advice we will strive to proactively contribute not only to Japan’s swift recovery but also to the sustainability of global society. And as suggested by Ms. Fujisawa, we will mull initiatives for collaborating with a more diversified range of stakeholders as a way of contributing toward the resolution of social issues. Encouraged by the valuable advice we receive, we will continue to fulfill our mission of contributing as a manufacturer to global society long into the future. 147 GRI Guideline Comparison List Comparison Chart of GRI Sustainability Reporting Corresponding Relevant page(s) Guidelines (G3) and United Nations Global Compact Global Compact in CSR Report Principles Principle 2011 1. Strategy and Analysis 1.1 Statement from the most senior decision maker of Dialogue the organization (e.g., CEO, chair, or equivalent senior position) about the relevance of sustainability to the organization and its strategy. 1.2 Description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities. Dialogue CSR concepts and actions CSR Action Plans Our Response to the Great East Japan Earthquake 2. Organizational Profile 2.1 Name of the organization. Overview of the MHI Group 2.2 Primary brands, products, and/or services. Overview of the MHI Group 2.3 Operational structure of the organization, including Overview of the main divisions, operating companies, subsidiaries, MHI Group and joint ventures. 2.4 Location of organization's headquarters. Overview of the MHI Group 2.5 Number of countries where the organization Overview of the operates, and names of countries with either major MHI Group operations or that are specifically relevant to the sustainability issues covered in the report. 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form. Overview of the MHI Group 2.7 Markets served (including geographic breakdown, Overview of the sectors served, and types of MHI Group customers/beneficiaries). 2.8 Scale of the reporting organization. Overview of the MHI Group 2.9 Significant changes during the reporting period New Organizations regarding size, structure, or ownership. and Measures Concerning Business and Management 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period. Recognition from Society 3. Report Parameters Report Profile 3.1 Reporting period (e.g., fiscal/calendar year) for Editorial Policy information provided. 3.2 Date of most recent previous report (if any). Editorial Policy 148 3.3 Reporting cycle (annual, biennial, etc.) Editorial Policy 3.4 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its Questionnaire contents. Report Scope and Boundary 3.5 Process for defining report content Editorial Policy 3.6 Boundary of the report (e.g., countries, divisions, Editorial Policy subsidiaries, leased facilities, joint ventures, suppliers). See GRI Boundary Protocol for further guidance. 3.7 State any specific limitations on the scope or Editorial Policy boundary of the report. 3.8 Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, leased facilities, outsourced operations, and other entities that can significantly affect comparability from period to period and/or between organizations. 3.9 Data measurement techniques and the bases of Environmental calculations, including assumptions and techniques Accounting underlying estimations applied to the compilation of the Indicators and other information in the report. 3.10 Explanation of the effect of any re-statements of information provided in earlier reports, and the reasons for such re-statement (e.g., mergers/acquisitions, change of base years/periods, nature of business, measurement methods). 3.11 Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the scope, boundary, or measurement methods applied in the report. GRI Content Index 3.12 Table identifying the location of the Standard GRI Guideline Disclosures in the report. Comparison List Assurance 3.13 Policy and current practice with regard to seeking Third-Party external assurance for the report. If not included in Opinions the assurance report accompanying the sustainability report, explain the scope and basis of any external assurance provided. Also explain the relationship between the reporting organization and the assurance provider(s). 4. Governance, Commitments, and Engagement Governance 4.1 Governance structure of the organization, including Current Status of committees under the highest governance body Corporate responsible for specific tasks, such as setting Governance and strategy or organizational oversight. Internal Controls 4.2 Indicate whether the Chair of the highest governance Current Status of body is also an executive officer (and, if so, their Corporate function within the organization's management and Governance and the reasons for this arrangement). Internal Controls 4.3 For organizations that have a unitary board Current Status of structure, state the number of members of the Corporate highest governance body that are independent Governance and and/or non-executive members. Internal Controls 149 4.4 Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to Current Status of provide recommendations or direction to the highest Corporate governance body. Governance and Internal Controls Promoting communication between management and employees 4.5 Linkage between compensation for members of the highest governance body, senior managers, and executives (including departure arrangements), and the organization's performance (including social and environmental performance). 4.6 Processes in place for the highest governance body Current Status of to ensure conflicts of interest are avoided. Corporate Governance and Internal Controls 4.7 Process for determining the qualifications and Current Status of expertise of the members of the highest governance Corporate body for guiding the organization's strategy on Governance and economic, environmental, and social topics. Internal Controls CSR Action Plans Major Fiscal 2010 Committee Actions 4.8 Internally developed statements of mission or CSR concepts and values, codes of conduct, and principles relevant to actions economic, environmental, and social performance CSR Action Plans and the status of their implementation. 4.9 Procedures of the highest governance body for Current Status of overseeing the organization's identification and Corporate management of economic, environmental, and social Governance and performance, including relevant risks and Internal Controls opportunities, and adherence or compliance with internationally agreed standards, codes of conduct, and principles. Include frequency with which the highest governance body assesses sustainability performance. 4.10 Processes for evaluating the highest governance body's own performance, particularly with respect to economic, environmental, and social performance. Commitments to External Initiatives 4.11 Explanation of whether and how the precautionary Promoting approach or principle is addressed by the Comprehensive and organization. Strategic CSR Activities Major Fiscal 2010 Committee Actions 4.12 Externally developed economic, environmental, and Dialogue social charters, principles, or other initiatives to which the organization subscribes or endorses. 4.13 Memberships in associations (such as industry associations) and/or national/international advocacy organizations. 150 Stakeholder Engagement 4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the CSR concepts and organization. actions 4.15 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders CSR concepts and with whom to engage. actions 4.16 Approaches to stakeholder engagement, including A bridge to the next frequency of engagement by type and by Generation stakeholder group. 4.17 Key topics and concerns that have been raised Close ties with the through stakeholder engagement, and how the Earth organization has responded to those key topics and Close ties with concerns, including through its reporting. Society A bridge to the next Generation 5. Management Approach and Performance Indicators Economic Economic Performance EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed, CSR concepts and including revenues, operating costs, employee actions compensation, donations and other community Achievements investments, retained earnings, and payments to Made through capital providers and governments. Socially Beneficial Activities EC2 Financial implications and other risks and Close ties with the opportunities for the organization's activities due to Earth climate change. Environmental Accounting EC3 Coverage of the organization's defined benefit plan obligations. EC4 Significant financial assistance received from government. Market Presence EC5 Range of ratios of standard entry level wage compared to local minimum wage at significant locations of operation. EC6 Policy, practices, and proportion of spending on Promoting CSR locally-based suppliers at significant locations of Procurement operation. EC7 Procedures for local hiring and proportion of senior management hired from the local community at locations of significant operation. Indirect Economic Impacts EC8 Development and impact of infrastructure Achievements investments and services provided primarily for Made through public benefit through commercial, in kind, or pro Socially Beneficial bono engagement. Activities EC9 Understanding and describing significant indirect Environmental economic impacts, including the extent of impacts. Accounting Environmental Materials 151 EN1 Materials used by weight or volume. Principle 8 Material Balance EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled input Principle 8, materials. Principle 9 Energy EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary energy Principle 8 Material Balance source. Promotion of Energy-saving and CO2 Emission Control Measures EN4 Indirect energy consumption by primary source. Principle 8 Material Balance Promotion of Energy-saving and CO2 Emission Control Measures Measures to Curb Energy Use in Transport EN5 Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency Principle 8, Promotion of improvements. Principle 9 Energy-saving and CO2 Emission Control Measures Measures to Curb Energy Use in Transport CO2 reductions with MHI product usage (FY2010) EN6 Initiatives to provide energy-efficient or renewable Principle 8, Promotion of energy based products and services, and reductions Principle 9 Energy-saving and in energy requirements as a result of these CO2 Emission initiatives. Control Measures CO2 reductions with MHI product usage (FY2010) EN7 Initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption and Promotion of reductions achieved. Energy-saving and CO2 Emission Control Measures Measures to Curb Energy Use in Transport Water EN8 Total water withdrawal by source. Principle 8 Resource Conservation and Waste Management EN9 Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of water. EN10 Percentage and total volume of water recycled and Principle 8, reused. Principle 9 Biodiversity EN11 Location and size of land owned, leased, managed Principle 8 in, or adjacent to, protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas. 152 EN12 Description of significant impacts of activities, Principle 8 products, and services on biodiversity in protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas. EN13 Habitats protected or restored. Principle 8 Preserving Biodiversity EN14 Strategies, current actions, and future plans for Principle 8 managing impacts on biodiversity. EN15 Number of IUCN Red List species and national Principle 8 conservation list species with habitats in areas affected by operations, by level of extinction risk. Emissions, Effluents, and Waste EN16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions Principle 8 Promotion of by weight. Energy-saving and CO2 Emission Control Measures EN17 Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions by Principle 8 Promotion of weight. Energy-saving and CO2 Emission Control Measures EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and Principle 7, Close ties with the reductions achieved. Principle 8, Earth Principle 9 Promotion of Energy-saving and CO2 Emission Control Measures Measures to Curb Energy Use in Transport CO2 reductions with MHI product usage (FY2010) EN19 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances by weight. Principle 8 Management of Chemical Substances EN20 NO, SO, and other significant air emissions by type Principle 8 Material Balance and weight. EN21 Total water discharge by quality and destination. Principle 8 Resource Conservation and Waste Management EN22 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method. Principle 8 Resource Conservation and Waste Management EN23 Total number and volume of significant spills. Principle 8 Controlling and Improving Response to Potential Environmental Impact Risks EN24 Weight of transported, imported, exported, or treated Principle 8 waste deemed hazardous under the terms of the Basel Convention Annex I, II, III, and VIII, and percentage of transported waste shipped 153 internationally. EN25 Identity, size, protected status, and biodiversity value Principle 8 of water bodies and related habitats significantly affected by the reporting organization's discharges of water and runoff. Products and Services EN26 Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of Principle 7, Close ties with the products and services, and extent of impact Principle 8, Earth mitigation. Principle 9 Environmental Accounting CO2 reductions with MHI product usage (FY2010) Main product and technology in 2010 EN27 Percentage of products sold and their packaging Principle 8, materials that are reclaimed by category. Principle 9 Compliance EN28 Monetary value of significant fines and total number Principle 8 Status of Incidents of non--monetary sanctions for non-compliance with and Legal Violations environmental laws and regulations. Relating to the Environment Transport EN29 Significant environmental impacts of transporting Principle 8 Measures to Curb products and other goods and materials used for the Energy Use in organization's operations, and transporting members Transport of the workforce. Overall EN30 Total environmental protection expenditures and Principle 7, Environmental investments by type. Principle 8, Accounting Principle 9 Social Product Responsibility Customer Health and Safety PR1 Life cycle stages in which health and safety impacts Principle 1 Enhancing Product of products and services are assessed for Safety improvement, and percentage of significant products and services categories subject to such procedures. PR2 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with Principle 1 regulations and voluntary codes concerning health and safety impacts of products and services during their life cycle, by type of outcomes. Product and Service Labeling PR3 Type of product and service information required by Principle 8 procedures, and percentage of significant products and services subject to such information requirements. PR4 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with Principle 8 regulations and voluntary codes concerning product and service information and labeling, by type of outcomes. 154 PR5 Practices related to customer satisfaction, including Enhancing results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction. Customer Satisfaction (CS) Marketing Communications PR6 Programs for adherence to laws, standards, and Enhancing voluntary codes related to marketing Customer communications, including advertising, promotion, Satisfaction (CS) and sponsorship. PR7 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning marketing communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship by type of outcomes. Customer Privacy PR8 Total number of substantiated complaints regarding Principle 1 Secure breaches of customer privacy and losses of Safeguarding of customer data. Proprietary Information Compliance PR9 Monetary value of significant fines for noncompliance with laws and regulations concerning the provision and use of products and services. Labor Practices and Decent Work Employment LA1 Total workforce by employment type, employment Overview of the contract, and region. MHI Group Utilizing and Cultivating Diverse Human Resources LA2 Total number and rate of employee turnover by age Principle 6 Utilizing and group, gender, and region. Cultivating Diverse Human Resources LA3 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not Building a Better provided to temporary or part-time employees, by Working major operations. Environment Labor/Management Relations LA4 Percentage of employees covered by collective Principle 1, Utilizing and bargaining agreements. Principle 3 Cultivating Diverse Human Resources LA5 Minimum notice period(s) regarding operational Principle 3 changes, including whether it is specified in collective agreements. Occupational Health and Safety LA6 Percentage of total workforce represented in formal Principle 1 joint management–worker health and safety committees that help monitor and advise on occupational health and safety programs. LA7 Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, Principle 1 Building a Better and absenteeism, and number of work-related Working fatalities by region. Environment LA8 Education, training, counseling, prevention, and riskPrinciple 1 Building a Better control programs in place to assist workforce Working 155 members, their families, or community members Environment regarding serious diseases. LA9 Health and safety topics covered in formal Principle 1 Building a Better agreements with trade unions. Working Environment Training and Education LA10 Average hours of training per year per employee by employee category. LA11 Programs for skills management and lifelong Utilizing and learning that support the continued employability of Cultivating Diverse employees and assist them in managing career Human Resources endings. LA12 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews. Diversity and Equal Opportunity LA13 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown Principle 1, Utilizing and of employees per category according to gender, age Principle 6 Cultivating Diverse group, minority group membership, and other Human Resources indicators of diversity. LA14 Ratio of basic salary of men to women by employee Principle 1, category. Principle 6 Human Rights Investment and Procurement Practices HR1 Percentage and total number of significant Principle 1, investment agreements that include human rights Principle 2, clauses or that have undergone human rights Principle 3, screening. Principle 4, Principle 5, Principle 6 HR2 Percentage of significant suppliers and contractors Principle 1, that have undergone screening on human rights and Principle 2, actions taken. Principle 3, Principle 4, Principle 5, Principle 6 HR3 Total hours of employee training on policies and Principle 1, CSR Action Plans procedures concerning aspects of human rights that Principle 2, Major Fiscal 2010 are relevant to operations, including the percentage Principle 3, Committee Actions of employees trained. Principle 4, Building a Better Principle 5, Working Principle 6 Environment Non-discrimination HR4 Total number of incidents of discrimination and Principle 1, actions taken. Principle 2, Principle 6 Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining HR5 Operations identified in which the right to exercise Principle 1, freedom of association and collective bargaining Principle 2, may be at significant risk, and actions taken to Principle 3 support these rights. Child Labor 156 HR6 Operations identified as having significant risk for Principle 1, incidents of child labor, and measures taken to Principle 2, contribute to the elimination of child labor. Principle 5 Forced and Compulsory Labor HR7 Operations identified as having significant risk for Principle 1, incidents of forced or compulsory labor, and Principle 2, measures to contribute to the elimination of forced or Principle 4 compulsory labor. Security Practices HR8 Percentage of security personnel trained in the Principle 1, organization's policies or procedures concerning Principle 2 aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations. Indigenous Rights HR9 Total number of incidents of violations involving Principle 1, rights of indigenous people and actions taken. Principle 2 Society Community SO1 Nature, scope, and effectiveness of any programs and practices that assess and manage the impacts of operations on communities, including entering, operating, and exiting. Corruption SO2 Percentage and total number of business units Principle 10 Risk Management analyzed for risks related to corruption. and Crisis Management SO3 Percentage of employees trained in organization's Principle 10 Compliance anti-corruption policies and procedures. Education and Increasing Awareness SO4 Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption. Principle 10 Preventing a Recurrence of Legal Violations (if any) Public Policy SO5 Public policy positions and participation in public Principle 1, Promotion of policy development and lobbying. Principle 2, Energy-saving and Principle 3, CO2 Emission Principle 4, Control Measures Principle 5, Principle 6, Principle 7, Principle 8, Principle 9, Principle 10 SO6 Total value of financial and in-kind contributions to Principle 10 political parties, politicians, and related institutions by country. Anti-Competitive Behavior SO7 Total number of legal actions for anti-competitive Preventing a behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly practices and Recurrence of Legal their outcomes. Violations (if any) 157 Compliance SO8 Monetary value of significant fines and total number Preventing a of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with Recurrence of Legal laws and regulations. Violations (if any) 158
