 1  THE GLOBAL COMPACT – COP 2012 www.akkadgroup.com Chairman Message………... 3 Quality Assurance …………… 18 Environment …………………. 30 Akkad Group Logos ………... 4 Akkad Group 21 Planting trees in company 31 Responsibilities ………………. site in Syria & Iraq …………. Akkad Group Introduction 5 Supporting the Global 23 Media Campaign for 32 Compact Principals………….. Environmental Responsibilities ……………... Akkad Group Activities …… 5 Human Rights ………………… 25 Anti-Corruption ………………. 34 Akkad Group People ……… 7 Akkad Group respect the 25 Working Against Anti34 Human Rights ………………. Corruption …………………….. Akkad Group Mission …….. 10 Akkad Group not complicit 26 in Human Rights abuses…... Akkad Group Vision ……….. 12 Labour …………………………… 28 Akkad Group Strategy 14 Elimination of all forms of 28 Anwar Akkad Sons Group Overview ………………………. forced and compulsory labour ……………………………. Quality at Akkad Group ….. 16 Akkad Group prevent child 28 labour …………………………… www.akkadgroup.com 2 Welcome to Akkad Group! Akkad Group believes in the principals that The Global Compact represent and which reflect at the same time our believes which we inherited from elder generations. As a Group we’re always adhered to social responsibility. In all of our activities we do our best to ensure that all economic, environmental and social factors are considered. In addition of being committed to our principles of honor, respect and Sincerity makes us more responsible as an enterprise, managing a leading group enforces a process that starts at my office and goes throughout the Corporation to each and every employee and manager in this enterprise. We share in this commitment as a team because it is the right path. I believe that 2012-2013 bring new challenges and improved bases for business and for Human Rights, Labour, The Environment and the Anti-Corruption, giving me the confidence to say that we will enjoy the experience of achieving our 2012 goals. Sincerely yours, Hashem AKKAD www.akkadgroup.com 3 www.akkadgroup.com 4 Anwar Akkad Sons Group is a diversified group of companies in the fields of Oil & Gas Industry, Food Industry, Tourism, Insurance, contracting and Exhibitions. The reputation Akkad Group gained through the excellent performance, integrity and competence, and which reflects the closely-knit management of professionals whom have decades of experience. While the business continues to evolve with the development of new technologies and discoveries, Akkad Group is well positioned to adapt and capitalize on this dynamic environment. We are working for a brighter future and we value the confidence that each partner places in us, and this trust is vital in all of our decision-making. Akkad Group strategy is based on a continuous development plans renewed annually according to the group activities, compatible with the universal development. Moreover, Akkad Group cares to make use and access to the latest inventions and technology applications through the alliances and cooperation with sound international companies. www.akkadgroup.com 5 www.akkadgroup.com 6 Akkad Group and employees are well experienced and have set up a firm footing in the industry, developing a sound relationship with the clients based on trust and passion to deliver on time and exceed expectations. As a world-class, multi-activities business leader, we need to continually reach out to new and various horizons to succeed in the regional market. This means we had to create a working environment that attracts the best professionals with the biggest ambitions and the highest standards. The Akkad Group team is naturally multifarious Comprises 1000 people with a wide combination of skills, backgrounds and perspectives. We use this source of massive potentials to form a great group, a great team of professionals adhered to the success of our branches on projects of Great importance to our country. The applied quality system is matching the large international companies’ conditions, and internationally accepted standards. www.akkadgroup.com 7 Anwar Akkad Sons Group draws its strength from:  Strong business relations and market presence.  Projects understanding and full respects of their needs.  Fast accommodation with projects requirements.  Respect of customer needs and benefits.  Commitment is first priority obligations.  Following modern business practiced activities and continuously upgraded ambitious targets. www.akkadgroup.com 8 www.akkadgroup.com 9 Akkad Group is committed to perform all its businesses in the international market by following the international standards rules, laws and ethics. In addition, the Group is committed to protect the environment, human and assets of others, in all its operational areas. These targets are achieved by applying the most restricted Health, Safety and Environmental protection standards, rules and regulations. Akkad Group is also committed to perform all its transactions, operations and management systems following the international ISO standards. www.akkadgroup.com 10 www.akkadgroup.com 11 Akkad Group was, and will remain, famed for its quality jobs, we will strive to be recognized among our customers as The Best , and we shall understand and anticipate their needs and respond them with innovative, value-added services. Improvement, quality control shall be the integral part of our business process. Akkad Group is cooperating with well-known experienced international consultants in all related fields of activities. www.akkadgroup.com 12 www.akkadgroup.com 13  Maintaining a leading position in its activities. Akkad Group will work harder and harder to maintain the leading position it has obtained and develop it to be recognized worldwide as Leader Company.  Investing in developing the team and attracting skilled staff and management Akkad Group consider its team as an asset who will push forward to get to our target; therefore an extensive courses in all sectors is applied in cooperation with an international houses to enhance the standards of its employee  Expanding our activities in a very steady steps The Group does not plan a rapid expansion but is more willing to proceed with sure and steady steps, which shall be taken after careful study of the market and the importance of contracts to be signed.  Extending our activities worldwide Despite the global economic downturn, we are always looking to expand our Business into new locations around the region, and around the world! www.akkadgroup.com 14 www.akkadgroup.com 15 Since its establishment Akkad Group operating facilities have maintained the highest standards of quality control and assurance restricting to the self-Provided Standard operating Procedures for potent and flawless operations. We are aware of the importance of our work quality and we will perform to the best of our capabilities at all times. We appreciate the value of Human Factors principles and incorporate them in our quality approach. Akkad Group considers the principal of a quality system is to maintain a satisfied individual customer by providing customers with advanced quality services and products at costperformance. Akkad Group is keen to get its supplies from secure best quality sources, the provided supplies are always in line with internationally updated standards and customer's requirement and executed contracts. www.akkadgroup.com 16 www.akkadgroup.com 17 The following are our practice to maintain quality assurance. • Establishing a high level of communications and understanding with customer to satisfy all customer’s needs. • Focusing upon services which reflect our customer satisfaction and continuously promote effort toward improvement • Carefully selected our chain suppliers’ base according to our customers' quality standards. • Maintaining the highest levels of quality by using documented specialized control methods and supervision. www.akkadgroup.com 18 Our Customers: Experience our services, as exclusive standard at the most economical rate. They recognize Akkad Group as one of the dedicated Group that would meet both their current requirements and future needs. Our Suppliers: view us as partners who clearly define requirements and expect in return, raw materials, products and services that fully meet these requirements. Our Employees: Is a part of Akkad Group family, as an integral family Akkad Group has strived to achieve the zero defects. They understand that as an employer, Akkad Group values them as assets and will provide them with opportunities for future growth. www.akkadgroup.com 19 www.akkadgroup.com 20 Akkad Group is committed to play a development role in each country it operates, and is proud to be recognized among the domestic staff and the people as a company that perform its job considering the culture and upgrading the level of its employee and prepare them to be a strong asset to build their country. www.akkadgroup.com 21 www.akkadgroup.com 22 Akkad Group is committed to support the Global Compact principals in the fields of Human Rights, Labour, The Environment and Anti-Corruption. We are looking to be an active partner in implementing theses principals which go with our believes. Our commitment exceed our own group, we are making a whole campaign utilizing our facilities to explain the importance and advantages of implementing the ten principals. We have made several workshops and meetings with the executives in our group to consider the implementation of the ten principals in their day to day activities. www.akkadgroup.com 23 www.akkadgroup.com 24  Principal 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights, and  Principal 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Akkad Group respects the Human Rights and is applying a healthy and safety management system that conform to the best practices in the world. Human rights are an essential part of the group operations, we have done many workshops and courses to ensure and clarify to our employees the importance of respecting the human rights of the employees, colleagues, family and society. Akkad Group is also not complicit in human rights abuses, on the contrary, Akkad Group prevent any kind of human right abuse by giving a clear instruction to the executives in the group to make sure that all the employees should work against any kind of human rights abuse by having long and detailed discussions with all the people in the group. www.akkadgroup.com 25 Akkad Group support and adheres to the guiding principles that promote worker human rights. Chairman, General Managers, Chief Executive Officers, Project Managers, Division Managers and every one are responsible for identifying human rights needs and providing appropriate training. www.akkadgroup.com 26 www.akkadgroup.com 27  Principal 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right of collective bargaining;  Principal 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour;  Principal 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and  Principal 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Akkad group is committed to the four principals of labour and is working to ensure workforce is aware of theses principals. The labour has an important part of Akkad Group strategy and we are committed to eliminate of all forms of forced and compulsory labour. Because we consider it as red line, Akkad Group prevent child labour in its companies and factories, theses instructions is clearly stated in the internal system of the company and in the Human recourses System. www.akkadgroup.com 28 www.akkadgroup.com 29  Principal 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges;  Principal 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and  Principal 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. All Akkad Group employees and company worksites are responsible for maintaining the integrity of environment programs, obeying all environmental rules, following environmental practices, and informing supervisors of any unsafe act for environment. www.akkadgroup.com 30 It is Akkad group policy to prevent damage and minimize environmental impact as much as possible; Akkad Group will specifically strive to: Always exercise due diligence in protecting the environment. Abide by all governing regulations. Containment spills; water source contamination, destruction of vegetation or any other violation of environmental laws is not permitted. Workers must immediately report all chemical or hydrocarbon spills to their manager. Go Green in all the company sites, and we have planted many trees in our company site in Syria & Iraq. Moreover, Akkad Group has executed several campaigns for instructing people to take care of the environment; hundreds of posters were spread in the advertising company network all over Syria. www.akkadgroup.com 31 www.akkadgroup.com 32 www.akkadgroup.com 33  Principal 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. We have in Akkad group a clear instruction to avoid and not doing anything related any kind of corruption internally and externally and all the executives are responsible to make sure that everyone in the group is working against corruption in all its forms including extortion and bribery. www.akkadgroup.com 34  35  www.akkadgroup.com www.akkadgroup.com
