UN Global Compact Communication on Progress Damstahl a/s 2012 The present Communication on Progress is the third submitted by us to the Global Compact. Since our latest report, we have obtained the signature on the Supplier Self Assessment A 063 from further of our steel suppliers, now being as close to 100 % as possible. A renewal of the signatures is already ongoing, as the first ones are about to expire soon. Further to that, we have also ensured that suppliers of computer equipment are being informed beforehand about this Code of Conduct and confirm being able to comply with it. Environmental considerations are also given the highest attention, which has lead to high demands to our carriers as well as intense focus on savings in electricity. We often refer to UN Global Compact, internally as well as externally, and we attach great importance to spreading the message about the 10 Principles, thereby diffusing the knowledge. The above mentioned activities as well as other activities during the past year will be described in this report. With this Communication of Progress, I want to express Damstahl a/s’ continued support to the Global Compact. Mikael Sthaalros Managing Director, Group CEO May 2012 Page 1 of 3 UN Global Compact Communication on Progress Damstahl a/s 2012 A. HUMAN RIGHTS – principles 1-2 • Employees – Protection against Suspicion The security in our computer systems has been even further improved by implementing a so-called two-factor-validation, thus precluding unauthorized persons from obtaining access to our system. • Employees – Safety In an ongoing process we make preventive arrangements often on invitation from our employees. Hearing protectors have been tested and selected in cooperation with the employees involved. Examples on our employees’ influence on a constant improvement of the safety are: improved light on our forklift trucks, moving equipment to obtain a better view and to ensure passage through emergency exits. • Social Responsibility internally In our efforts to support the possibilities for young people’s start of their working life, we have entered an agreement offering a young person temporary placement with a mentor and dedicated contacts to ensure progress for the person involved. As this proved to be a success, the period of placement has been prolonged. • Social Responsibility externally As in 2010, we also participated in the 2011 campaign called The World’s Best News. In 2011 the campaign took place in the period August 15th – September 30th. Damstahl informed internally as well as externally – e.g. on our website and in newsletters and promoted the campaign by an internal event. We will also be participating in this campaign in 2012. B. LABOUR – principles 3-6 • Code of Conduct Supplier Self Assessment A 063 – Stainless Steel All our suppliers of stainless steel either have signed the above Code of Conduct or express themselves their support to the UN Global Compact. A renewal of signatures is now an ongoing process according to the expiry of each form. All purchasing employees are informed about this process. The Code of Conduct is presented to any new supplier. If the signature cannot be given, we cannot initiate a co-operation. • Code of Conduct Supplier Self Assessment A 063 – Computer Equipment All suppliers of computer equipment are informed about our Code of Conduct. Further to that, all our suppliers are to demonstrate how their goods are procured, their influence on the environment and how they can be disposed. When making agreements about the delivery of new equipment, the supplier has to demonstrate that the product in question is the one with the least strain on the environment (power, ozone, chemical). • Responsibility to Employees Since our implementation of LEAN, we have registered 198 proposals for improvement, 68 of these since our latest COP in May 2011. We still evaluate every five weeks. Actual subject: types of waste Since 1 April 2012, 231 “cases” were registered. 149 of them have been solved. Main tools are manual registration combined with a computer tool analysing the location of the quickest moving items. • Job Satisfaction The responds from our 2011 questionnaire about job satisfaction were evaluated by an external professional who classified Damstahl as being “best in class”. Page 2 of 3 UN Global Compact Communication on Progress Damstahl a/s 2012 C. ENVIRONMENT – principles 7-9 • Computer Equipment – in General Beyond the above mentioned clear demands (in B) as to environmental considerations, we have made changed that have lead to 25 % savings in electricity during the past. Further to that, we gather the deliveries, thus minimizing transport costs and thereby the impact on the environment. • Toners All toners are to be environmental certified (SVANE / EU-Eco). As part of an ongoing process we strive to reduce printing. During 2011 prints were reduced by 8 %. • Server Room In our 2011 COP, we mentioned that a new cooling process in our server room had led to savings in electricity. This process is at present being optimized and further savings in electricity of 15 % are expected. • Light Movement sensors have also been installed in our basement = filing area and dressing rooms -> savings in electricity. We continuously consider if that’s possible in other rooms of our building. Test is being made with LED bulbs that are more environmental but perhaps with a shorter lifetime because of their sensitiveness towards vibrations. • Shipping Agents As per 1 August 2012 all lorries delivering for us in Denmark are rated with euro standard 5, which emphasizes our focus on the European Cap Grading. • Recycling All pallet frames used to be disposed due to different sizes. A change in procedure has made it possible for us to reuse all pallet frames, and thus the amount of waste has been reduced significantly. D. ANTI-CORRUPTION – principle 10 Just as stated in our COP 2011, this is covered by obtaining the signatures on the Supplier Self Assessment A 063 – see comments under B. This means that we have introduced the Un Global Compact to all suppliers of stainless steel and computer equipment and make sure that all our suppliers respect the anti-corruption statement. How do you intend to make this COP available to your stakeholders? By publishing the COP on our websites Page 3 of 3
