Vestey Foods UK Limited Special Contracts Division Communication on Progress 22 October 2012 Company Profile Vestey Foods Group comprises thirteen food companies worldwide specialising in the import, storage and distribution of a wide variety of foodstuffs from global suppliers into the various local market places in which we operate. We trade specialise in trading beef, pork, lamb, poultry, game, fish, seafood and convenience products into some 70 countries in our International Division. In a number of territories we also offer a full Foodservice operation delivering 1000’s of product lines to the end user on dedicated logistics platforms that ensure quality products and high service levels tailor made to our customer’s needs. The Group combines the longstanding traditions within the 110-year old Vestey family business with a dynamic, customer-focused approach of all of our management teams in every territory we operate. We have well-established relationships with key suppliers and operate to strict quality control standards to ensure that product is delivered to customers the world over on time and correctly documented to full food safety requirements. As part of the 100% family-owned Vestey Group, we are one of two main business functions of the business, the other being farming in Brazil and Venezuela. The Special Contracts Division SCD enables national and international contracts for Government, Private and Public sector customers that require high service levels combined with a flexible and multi temperature solutions to the food supply chain. With a core range based around protein we manage procurement, quality assurance and distribution to detailed specifications for both products and services. We also procure, pack and distribute bespoke operational feeding solutions for both the military and aid organisations with unique and innovative products. Further details can be found at www.vesteyfoods.com Statement of Support from Adam Cox, Deputy CEO Vestey Foods Special Contracts Division became a signatory to the Global Compact in 2009 and since then has experienced a period of significant change and expansion. Most recently these include the acquisition of a Foodservice Operation in the UK in March 2012 and the contract award, through our Partners ISS, for feeding the United Nations Mission in Somalia. All of which has been achieved using our Business Management System, and complying to ISO standards Quality Management Systems 9001:2008 and Environmental Management 14001:2004. The Division continues to operate as a Small to Medium Enterprise (SME), although the number of employees has risen from 26 to 243 we remain an office based trading operation. We continue to exercise and disseminate our Core Values across the global market-place, and strive to imbue them, and the values of the Global Compact, into the commercial DNA of our colleagues, suppliers and customers. There continues to be interest, acceptance and support from all stakeholders in what we are trying to achieve, and the manner in which we are going about it. All that we strive to achieve both individually and as a Company, is underpinned by our Core Values, and there is little doubt that they have improved what we do and how we do it. Our Priorities for the coming year will remain the maintenance and expansion of our reputation for doing things in the correct fashion; we will do this by focussing on Honesty and Integritythe two most highly placed Core Values within the Group. We will show continued improvement, not only in our performance, but also in our management of our QMS and the environmental processes. We are proactive in seeking assurances from our stakeholders about their commitment to the UN Global Compact, and we test the veracity of these assurances, as well as seeking further proof of dissemination up and down our supply chain, as well communicating the values with those we have no formal relationship with. The UN Global Compact has helped us to achieve year on year business management improvements to our operating procedures and resulted in a more focussed approach to managing our suppliers and resources, which in turn helped us to deliver an efficient food supply solution to the UN in Somalia. Adam Cox Deputy CEO Vestey Foods UK Limited The Ten Principles Human Rights Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. SCD ensure information relating to suppliers business activities and actions are obtained by providing Supplier Approval Questionnaires. The SAQ questions our suppliers on their compliance of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact; a link to the Global Compact website is provided so that suppliers can verify compliance against the principles. All responses to the SAQ are reviewed by SCD and based on the risk assessment; we conduct site audits of suppliers. Vestey Suppliers UNGC Compliant 2% Yes No 98% Labour Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. SCD is committed to upholding freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. We are committed to the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory and child labour, and we aim to be an equal opportunities employer and respect individuals, regardless of ethnic origin, age or gender. Currently SCD does not employ any personnel under the age of 18, and we are aware of Council Directive 94/33/EC covering the protection of young people at work. All employees are encouraged to respect the Vestey Group's Core Values; developed as a guide to how we conduct ourselves day to day, interact with stakeholders, implement decisions, reflect on performance and development needs, assess or give feedback to others. The four core values are: Honesty and Integrity; being a Reliable Partner, Teamwork and Individual Responsibility; and Adapting to Change. Research demonstrates that having a strong culture and shared values will enhance the company's reputation and help us attract and retain talented individuals who exhibit high levels of employee satisfaction and motivation. We have found this to be the case in the last 12 months. Values implementation is encouraged and monitored using surveys, communication, progress updates and personal feedback. We commission an independent research company to administer a staff survey, which includes a questionnaire that covers a number of tailored questions on induction, training, development, and communication as well as many other aspects of staff duties. We encourage all staff to participate in the survey in order to tell us how they feel; it does not matter how long they have worked for SCD, or where they work, or what role they fit – all views are equally valid and appreciated for. At the same time, staff confidentiality is completely protected. All employment posts have formal job descriptions assigned and are advertised to the wider community during the recruitment process. After the interview stage, all applicants are offered formal contracts of employment with information on roles and responsibilities, hours of work and conditions of employment clearly stated. The company aims to provide employees with fair and competitive terms of employment, and attractive benefits to all employees after completion of a 26 weeks probationary period. Benefits include, but are not limited to, private healthcare, pension scheme and life assurance. It is the Company’s view that the promotion of flexible working arrangements increases staff motivation, performance and productivity, reduces stress and encourages staff retention by enabling employees to balance their work and personal issues. The Company recognises that success depends upon a workforce that is motivated, skilled and highly trained and we are committed to providing the resources and facilities that support on-going learning, training and development as well as the needs of the business’ strategic objectives. SCD has an equal opportunity employment recruitment policy, which provides a diverse workforce, currently comprising majority British followed by EU and non-EU employees. 10% 23% British EU (excluding British) Non-EU 68% Employee’s gender balance is also reviewed and currently stands as follows: Vestey Foods SCD: Employees by Gender (2012) % Male Employees % Female Employees 45% 55% The female to male employee ratio has increased in the last 12 months in the SCD Technical department (80% female; 20% male). Vestey Foods SCD: Employees by Gender in Technical Department (2012) 20% 1 2 80% The Company’s Data Protection Policy covers all current and potential employees, suppliers and customers and is compliant with the Data Protection Act (1998). We collect store and process personal information in an appropriate and lawful manner. SCD ensures protection of worker’s personal data with restricted access to the HR department and we are aware of and comply with EU directive 95/46/EC and 2002/58 covering processing of personal data and the protection of privacy in the electronic communication sector. SCD employee’s hours of work are in general Monday to Friday (8am to 5pm), with appropriate unrestricted breaks with adequate provision for storage and preparation of meals and drinks. We place no restriction on taking annual leave and sickness leave is provided when requested. All employees benefit from a formal induction package on commencing their position, which clearly defines Company policy, reporting procedures, confidentiality and nondisclosure obligations, and we brief employees on the principles of Global Compact during this induction process. All employees are encouraged to respect and adhere to the Group’s ethics policy (please see our web page) and Core Values on commencement of their post, indeed Core Vales are also covered at the interview stage. During their employment, all employees participate in annual appraisals and 3 monthly reviews. Employees are also encouraged to develop their professional skills through training to the mutual benefit of individuals and the company, and encouraged to raise any concerns through our grievance reporting procedure. We monitor training requirements and encourage all employees to participate in appropriate training for personal career development. Since becoming a signatory to the Global Compact in 2009 all members of the Special Contracts Division completed ongoing performance management reviews in which training requirements and objectives are discussed and scheduled with the Deputy CEO. Currently no employees are members of Trade Unions. SCD strongly promote an environment allows employees to represent themselves if an issue arises via open management structure, yearly appraisals and confidential helpline. Environment: Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. SCD is ISO 14001:2004, Environmental Management Standard accredited and we have an environmental policy which is reviewed biannually. The environmental policy is understood by all key personnel and communicated to all new staff when joining the Company. All staff undertake regular refresher training days and senior staff are updated on progress during 6 monthly Business Management Meetings. SCD sets environmental objectives and targets annually. Reviews occur at Business Management System Management Meetings against the information recorded in the Registers of Environmental Aspects and Environmental Legislation. In setting these objectives and targets, we are mindful of: • The Environmental Policy. • Relative importance of the environmental aspects. • Relevant legislation. • View of any interested parties. • The need to prevent pollution in general. SCD continues to encourage the use of environmentally friendly technologies and is constantly reminding staff to be mindful of the need to use energy and fuel wisely for both sustainable and economic reasons. The commercial, technical and product development teams work together with our suppliers to eliminate packaging waste and to reduce overall packaging consumption. This is monitored and analysed annually. General waste and recycled waste is monitored by contract cleaners who supply SCD with a count of the bags of waste produced at the end of each week. This is entered into a general waste monitoring sheet and the bags of waste produced per head are calculated. The amount is trended and reviewed in BMS meetings. We continue to demonstrate a downward trend of general waste. All forms of energy consumption are monitored and trended against head count in the company. Waste management and energy consumption are analysed and form part of a Standing Agenda item at 6 monthly BMS meetings. Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. As outlined in our Ethics Policy, corruption in all forms is not acceptable. Critically, we commit to acting within the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and the United Kingdom Bribery Act of 2010. An anonymous suggestion/comments box was present in the office and has now been replaced with a confidential helpline which provides individuals with the opportunity to communicate any concerns they may have relating to corruption or highlight any misconduct. We operate a malpractice at work policy, which is displayed on all employee communication boards and covers all employees together with any individual undertaking work for the Group on a consultancy basis. In the last 12 months there have been no reports of misconduct. Yearly appraisals are conducted by the Deputy CEO with all staff to ensure that individuals have the opportunity to raise concerns they may have.
