Clifford Chance LLP Corporate responsibility report 2012 Finding common ground Finding What’s in this report 01 Introduction 02 Corporate responsibility highlights common 04 Our CR strategy in detail 08 Clifford Chance Access to Justice Award 2012 ground 10 People: Meaningful careers 16 Community: Global initiatives 22 Environment: Resourceful approaches 26 Our progress in 2011/12 28 UN Global Compact/GRI Reporting This Corporate responsibility report and our Annual review are also available interactively at www.cliffordchance.com Under the rules of certain US jurisdictions, this document may constitute attorney advertising. Prior results do not guarantee a similar outcome. About Clifford Chance Our principles Clifford Chance is one of the world’s leading Exceeding clients’ expectations law firms, with legal resources across the key markets of the Americas, Asia Pacific, Local excellence, global standards Europe, the Middle East and Africa. An ambition for success Our ambition is to become the leader of the elite group of international law firms that Investing in talent we believe will emerge in the coming years. An adaptable and approachable team This requires unrelenting investment in our strategic goals. We want to be the law firm Thinking ahead of choice for all of our clients, working Strength through diversity alongside them to achieve their goals and helping them to compete more successfully Community in their local markets and around the world. Read more about our principles at www.cliffordchance.com Key statistics 39 clients worked with us across 37 community collaborations 20 or more offices with 27 clients £1,303m revenues, up 7% on 2010/11 54,357 pro bono and volunteering hours by partners and staff Cover: Schoolchildren from Robert Clack School at a Raising Aspirations Day in our London office Corporate responsibility report 2012 Clifford Chance LLP 01 In setting out our corporate responsibility (CR) international NGOs as well as small, local strategy five years ago, our ambition was to charities. Teams around our network focus transform the many successful but disparate on how we can improve the diversity of talent initiatives around the firm into a cohesive and within our firm, and ensure that we give everyone coordinated international programme aligned to the opportunity to develop a meaningful career. specific people, community and environmental And in every office, every day, steps are being targets. We have made good progress. taken to try to reduce our environmental footprint. Our commitment to CR is now embedded in We decided some three years ago to become one many aspects of the firm’s life, from the criteria of the few law firm signatories to the UN Global considered in appraisals through to our business Compact. Clifford Chance is proud to support planning. Participation levels in our community the principles enshrined in the Global Compact activities are high with every office involved, both through the conduct of our own business, frequently working alongside clients and alumni and through the advice and support we provide of the firm. to clients. At global and local levels, there are programmes We hope that you enjoy reading about our progress to support our aims of increasing access to justice, in this report. finance and education, working with major Malcolm Sweeting David Childs Senior Partner Managing Partner 02 Clifford Chance LLP Corporate responsibility report 2012 Corporate responsibility highlights Local initiatives, globally-inspired Across the world we are finding new ways to work together – with colleagues, clients and alumni – on our global CR programme. Local inspiration and the energy of individuals at every level within our business ensure that our people, community and environment initiatives generate shared social value wherever we work. Environment 1,778MWs of renewable resources We advised the US Department of Energy, as loan guarantor, on six renewable energy transactions totalling 1,778 MWs of power – including one of the largest photovoltaic power projects in the world – and covered over US$4.7 billion of guaranteed loans. Community Painting the bigger picture with clients in NYC In New York, a Clifford Chance team joined the Credit Suisse legal team to paint murals for Public School 197 in central Harlem, in partnership with City Year New York, helping to improve the students’ learning environment. Community Street life in Brazil Clifford Chance Foundation funding to Street Kids International supported nearly 600 youths in Brazil to set up businesses, taking control of their futures. Corporate responsibility report 2012 Clifford Chance LLP 03 Community People Community Exporting aid Developing young ‘Partners in Leadership’ through The Crossroads potential Our Frankfurt office is working alongside companies such as Deutsche Bank, Foundation alongside Clifford Chance is a founding member of PRIME, a UK-wide initiative that aims to Deutsche Börse, Siemens, Merck and BNY Mellon improve access to the legal profession for Procter & Gamble on a mentoring scheme to help foster a closer relationship between young people from disadvantaged business and schools. Clifford Chance teams volunteer regularly backgrounds. alongside BNY Mellon to give The Crossroads Foundation hands-on support. The volunteers We are taking an innovative approach to how prepare and process donated goods, such we meet part of our PRIME commitments, as books, clothing, building materials and by actively supporting the delivery of a formal medicine, which are loaded into containers BTEC qualification to students at Thomas and shipped out to those in need around Tallis School in East London. the world. Environment Earth Hour The World Wildlife Fund organises an annual initiative, Earth Hour, to help tackle climate change and safeguard the natural world. More than 100 countries across the globe took part in 2012, with Clifford Chance playing its part by plunging most of its offices into darkness for the good of the planet. People Community Spreading the Legal advice for MaGIC in India refugees in Thailand The top 10 ideas from 200 submitted as Funds to provide refugees in Bangkok, part of MaGIC (Making Good Ideas Count) – Thailand with much needed advice is a firm-wide initiative that gives people the one example of our wide-ranging opportunity to share their ideas on how we support for Asylum Access. Recently, can make improvements in the firm – featured over 50 Clifford Chance volunteers Photo: Michelle Arevalo-Carpenter Neeraj Baluni’s suggestions to increase worked for six months to generate understanding within the firm of the Global 28 country reports for the planned Shared Service Centre, New Delhi and the expansion of this international non-profit roles and responsibilities of the people who organisation dedicated to making work there. refugee rights a reality. 04 Clifford Chance LLP Corporate responsibility report 2012 Our CR strategy in detail Aligning CR with our business Clifford Chance is built on the expertise, enthusiasm and energy of thousands of highly talented people around our international network. We believe that, as an industry leader, we have a duty to run our business responsibly and to use our collective expertise and energy to benefit those less fortunate than ourselves. By aligning our business strategy with our CR goals, we are building a sustainable programme of activity that is making a significant and positive impact on both our firm and the communities in which we operate. Our CR strategy is focused on three principal areas where we believe we have the greatest impact Area Vision Rationale People To achieve greater diversity and invest in talent by recruiting and developing the best people Our people drive our firm’s success. The quality of the people within the organisation, along with the diversity of viewpoints, will ensure we Read more on p10 remain connected with our clients and at the forefront of our business. Community To enhance our contribution to the communities in which we operate We focus our efforts on three themes, where we have professional expertise and where our diverse mix of specialists across Read more on p16 many disciplines can make a difference to the communities where we live and make our living: widening access to justice, to finance and to education. Environment To be an industry leader in how we measure and manage our own environmental impact and be at We advise clients on their environmental obligations and influence policy at a global level. We should therefore aim to be a leader the forefront of finding legal in our industry in how we measure and Read more on p22 solutions for our clients to facilitate manage our own environmental impact. the implementation of sustainable energy technologies and projects Corporate responsibility report 2012 Clifford Chance LLP 05 Aligning We are proud to have a leading business and human rights practice. As a firm we have agreed to support and respect internationally recognised business Our professionals have been involved in human rights, both as part of our shaping policy, law and regulation in the commitment to the UN Global Compact area for more than a decade, as well as and, specifically, in support of the UN and human advising clients in both the public and private sector. Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights. rights We seek to achieve measurable Our CR programme connects with improvements against targets set and and reinforces the critical components reviewed annually at senior management of our continued success level (see p26 for details) Our CR strategy supports our ambition to be regarded as the leader of the elite group of international law firms. Im sity deve prove iver e d opp lopm ov ortu en pr nit t I m ies People Our CR strategy cements the close o A c c ess t and trusting relationships we seek with Policy advice tio n clients as we work together to support Our CR ed uc a E n v iro strategy n it y our local communities. mu nm en Ac Co m t c fin ess t an o Id ce e en m ntif ro na y an vi a o Our CR strategy helps us to retain and n m ge d ss t e n o ur tal A c c e ce attract the kind of people we need and foo justi tprint develops their skills by broadening their experience and horizons. 06 Clifford Chance LLP Corporate responsibility report 2012 Our CR strategy in detail How do we engage stakeholders? The effective management and development of our business requires us to maintain regular, Community Government/ Academic Partners/NGOs Regulators institutions/think two-way dialogue with a wide range of Engaged through: Engaged through: tanks stakeholders. As an integral part of our business ››Regular updates ››Briefings Engaged through: strategy, CR forms an important component ››Relationship reviews ››Surveys ››Research projects ››Networking events ››Delegations ››Academic articles of that engagement: we must make clear what ››Regulatory advice and books and dialogue ››Publications our CR goals are and how we will achieve them, ››Teaching and lecturing ››Conferences and we must listen to others to ensure that our and seminars ››Tailored executive CR programmes stay in tune with the needs education of our stakeholders and are designed to deliver ››Recruitment activity ››Sponsorship optimal results. Partnering with NGOs We believe that a strength of the firm lies I have been delighted to lead the firm’s Fair Trials International has received in its ability to provide coordinated legal relationship with Fair Trials International considerable pro bono support from services to international non-governmental from our Warsaw office. Last year I Clifford Chance for some time, which organisations (NGOs). Last year we coordinated the firm’s work on FTI’s report in itself has been of great assistance. developed a new model of global strategic on pre-trial detention in the European Clifford Chance’s invitation to become partnership to enable us to support what Union which involved 17 lawyers from 10 one of their global pro bono clients we regard as some of the best NGOs in of our European offices, and which was takes things to another level. Being able the world, operating within our themes to draw on a wide range of their legal launched at the European Parliament in of widening access to justice, finance and and business services expertise across November. It is indicative of how I see this education. These new global strategic type of relationship developing that we their global network really will make a partners will be chosen for their ability to were also able to provide financial support difference to what we as an organisation make a difference and their alignment with to the project through the Clifford Chance can achieve. our CR goals and at the same time, we hope, will provide opportunities for offices Foundation and print the report in-house, Jago Russell Chief Executive, Fair Trials around our network to become involved at the same time as sending lawyers from International in supporting them. Partnerships have our London office to FTI’s regular advice already been developed with Fair Trials clinic. In other words, I hope that by International as well as with African Prison providing a range of pro bono services Project (see p8), Asylum Access (see p3) and from across the Clifford Chance network, Human Rights Watch. we will be able to make a real difference to what outstanding NGOs like FTI are able to achieve for their clients. Bartosz Kruzewski Partner, Warsaw Corporate responsibility report 2012 Clifford Chance LLP 07 Alumni Employees Recruits Media Clients Partners Engaged through: Engaged through: Engaged through: Engaged through: Engaged through: Engaged through: ››Online portal ››Firm‑wide and local ››Campus ››Briefings ››Relationship ››Management updates ››Networking events office newsletters presentations ››Regulatory updates meetings ››Dedicated partners’ ››Alumni yearbook ››‘Open forum’/‘town ››Feedback forms ››Press releases ››Client research intranet site ››Newsletters hall’ meetings ››Research and surveys ››Roundtables ››Deal reviews, pitches ››Partners’ meetings ››The appraisal process ››Focus groups ››Cultural events and proposals ››Business and financial ››Match-funding ››Vacation placements ››Capability statements update calls support for fundraising ››The application ››Our website ››Consultation ››Informal briefings process ››Events and votes with management and ››Briefings NGO partners Helping 100,000 People – everyone counts Partnering with clients When I joined our local CR team, I had Integrating community volunteering The Raising Aspirations Days are a a vague idea about community service. and pro bono work into our relationships fantastic way for RBS Legal and Clifford But it all changed the first time I went to with clients is increasingly important. Chance to meet local London sixth help with a drawing contest at a school This collaboration strengthens existing formers in a lively atmosphere to talk for underprivileged children in one of the connections between our organisations about careers. During the day, we share villages. It was an unforgettable experience. and, together, we often find we make a our own stories with the students and Since then, I have been able to use more valuable contribution than we might provide practical guidance and career tips. my professional experience in project individually. CR activities last year with We encourage the students to aim high management to coordinate and manage RBS provide a good example: RBS and and to achieve – no matter what their several programmes targeting education Clifford Chance lawyers worked alongside background. We thoroughly enjoy being each other on pro bono support for Asylum for these children. While organising these a part of this programme. Access and jointly delivered a Raising events, I also had the chance to revive Leonie Fleming General Counsel, Corporate Aspirations day, where students were my own childhood interest in art and craft. Banking Royal Bank of Scotland, GRG and given an insight into the variety of career Ulster Bank The fact that what we do has helped some opportunities available within businesses of the children to join proper schools for a like RBS and Clifford Chance. mainstream education gives me a great sense of fulfilment. And the way these kids smile and cheer every time we visit them makes me want to go back for more. Reema Borborah Projects Group, Global Shared Service Centre, New Delhi Our new initiative to help 100,000 people through our community outreach and pro bono work over the next three years is designed to galvanise activity across the firm, inspiring even more people to get involved in our CR programme by bringing to life the impact that we have on the people we help. It was kicked off with a high-profile firm-wide launch. 08 Clifford Chance LLP Corporate responsibility report 2012 Clifford Chance Access to Justice Award 2012 A desperate struggle for justice In Uganda, it’s estimated that some 60 per cent of inmates are awaiting trial and haven’t been convicted of an offence. Many will languish for years, facing torture, forced labour, even starvation. The African Prisons Project (APP) offers hope by supporting prisoners in Uganda, Kenya and Sierra Leone in four main areas: healthcare, education, community integration and justice. Corporate responsibility report 2012 Clifford Chance LLP 09 Above (right): Alexander McLean, APP APP’s life-changing work has received a APP is also using the funds to support Countless prisoners in Africa are stripped boost thanks to the second annual Clifford ‘Catalyst Crate’, a starter pack with a range of their rights and human dignity, and left Chance Access to Justice Award. As winners of standardised worksheets, information and of the 2012 award – which aims to bring equipment to help APP staff improve prison to rot. This support from Clifford Chance equal treatment before the law to the world’s life. The £50,000 goes toward the training helps APP restore hope to their lives. most vulnerable people and communities – of APP staff on how to implement the Alexander McLean APP founder and director APP received £50,000 through the Clifford Crate in different prisons and establish Chance Foundation and 500 hours of pro prison libraries. bono and volunteering work from people The brief of the Clifford Chance Access to The majority of prisoners that APP serves within the firm. Justice Award is to look for organisations have never met a lawyer. Many will spend APP’s mission quickly caught the years, or sometimes decades, waiting for trial that help individuals, groups or communities imagination of people across Clifford in filthy, crowded conditions, without access to preserve or secure rights to the basic Chance. Entry-level lawyers are providing to adequate nutrition or healthcare, let alone necessities of life. support to four inmates, one ex-prisoner and books or education. “The African Prisons Project does exactly three prison staff who are all undertaking that – and more,” Senior Partner Malcolm APP provides prisoners with counselling distance learning courses in law at the Sweeting says. “Their innovative and and guidance on legal issues, and works University of London, with fees for their thematic approach to meeting this goal is to improve legal libraries and help courses paid for with some of the Access to very much aligned with our own, and we are inmates complete legal programmes by Justice Award prize money. PR, Marketing, excited to be helping such a worthy cause.” correspondence. APP also trains paralegals, IT and Projects teams are getting behind lawyers and members of the judiciary, and APP as well, for instance by helping the helps academics conduct research into justice charity to reach more donors and supporters in Africa. The support from Clifford Chance by helping APP develop and execute their is enabling APP to expand these efforts. social media strategy. 10 Clifford Chance LLP Corporate responsibility report 2012 People Anand Saha Partner, São Paulo read his story on p12 Corporate responsibility report 2012 Clifford Chance LLP 11 Meaningful careers Our development programmes reflect and, wherever possible, anticipate the changes we see in the world around us. They also drive Clifford Chance’s multicultural, international mindset. The legal sector is competitive and to succeed we must recruit and invest in the best talent available. That means individuals with outstanding legal expertise – business-minded team players who will together ensure that we consistently deliver the highest quality, most insightful advice to clients in the most efficient way. The collaboration that is at the heart of our firm is not just internal. It is a hallmark of how we work with clients, involving clients and their perspectives in our learning programmes, exchanging sector views and thinking with them to develop new approaches to the complex and critical business, financial, regulatory and risk challenges they face. Some highlights 60,000 hours of training investment 92% Clifford Chance Academy 15.3% female partners in 2011/12 courses satisfaction rate 12 Clifford Chance LLP Corporate responsibility report 2012 People Nurturing talent “Our aim is to be regarded as one of the world’s leading professional service organisations. To get there, we need to invest in all our people, wherever they are,” explains David Childs, Managing Partner. The three members of the firm profiled here exemplify that investment and make Clifford Chance a brighter business by being part of it. Anand Saha Simon Fletcher Partner, São Paulo (pictured, previous spread) Senior Project Manager, Riyadh Anand Saha joined the firm in London, in Simon Fletcher joined the firm in 1998 – What training opportunities have helped you? 2001, and qualified in 2003. The final seat from day one showing the leadership I attended the Harvard Leadership Course in of Anand’s trainee rotation was a six month that helped him progress through new New York and more recently the senior placement in New York. Before long, Anand opportunities in a career that typifies the managers executive education programme at was a US-qualified capital markets lawyer firm’s globalisation and professionalisation. Saïd Business School, Oxford. I have also embedded in New York and in 2012 Anand He has moved through London, New run several training programmes – including became a partner in São Paulo. York and Dubai, in a range of senior recently a course for the senior associates in manager roles that have included Head of Abu Dhabi. What inspired you to apply Americas Business Development, Secretary to Clifford Chance? What does CR mean to you? to the Partnership Council and setting up When initially considering my options, I read It’s about Clifford Chance and its communities the Clifford Chance Foundation. of the firm’s game-changing mergers in the US working together to deliver shared value. and Germany in 2000 – so Clifford Chance’s How did Clifford Chance pitch the role I’m incredibly proud of my work with the business ambitions inspired me as much as to you before you joined? Clifford Chance Foundation. We set out with the opportunity to develop a legal career at a At interview I was told that I would be part a vision to build a school. Three years down leading firm with global coverage. of a world leading practice, within a firm that the line, we have built seven schools in Africa aimed to lead the elite, and that because this and educated 33,000 underprivileged children What was the appeal of staying in NYC? was Clifford Chance, I would be involved in in India. It’s an amazing place to work, but I was shaping the legal industry. I was sold on that persuaded to stay for experience reasons. idea from day one. The US remains a key source of liquidity in global capital markets, whether you’re in Asia, Europe or the Americas, so I jumped at the opportunity to remain at the cutting-edge of new market developments in New York. How would you describe the training and development? For five years I was a member of the Hiring Committee in New York. Amongst the hundreds of candidates I interviewed, the London quality of our business training and mentoring was consistently rated as a motivating factor by potential recruits – it sets us apart. New York Clifford Chance ranks in the top 10 of US law firms for quality of training, an exceptional performance in a highly competitive market. Riyadh London New York São Paulo Corporate responsibility report 2012 Clifford Chance LLP 13 Ruby Zhou Senior Associate, Shanghai Ruby qualified as a lawyer in the Banking & What was the first instruction you advised on? Finance team in Clifford Chance Shanghai The project financing of the Shanghai World in 2006, having first worked for the firm as Financial Centre, one of the world’s tallest an intern whilst studying at Fudan University buildings. The work has stayed with me. in Shanghai, and then moved into the In 2011, I was advising the client again, this Corporate practice. Clifford Chance time on selling certain floors in the tower to sponsored Ruby to attend her LLM at Chinese investors. Harvard University in 2009 where she What did your LLM give you? attained her New York Bar qualification. The confidence, when I went back to Shanghai, Ruby completed a half year secondment to offer a more international perspective in in Hong Kong in 2007 and completes a explaining offshore documents to Asian clients. year-long secondment in London, in Studying at Harvard, I also grew my network. November 2012. And it was a boost when China Managing Partner, Stephen Harder, gave a presentation to the Law School while I was there. What else has contributed to your development? Clifford Chance has built a great knowledge system – a system I use and contribute towards daily, and all the Clifford Chance Academy courses I attend help me to lead clients through the issues and challenges they face. London Shanghai Harvard Hong Kong 14 Clifford Chance LLP Corporate responsibility report 2012 People Never stop Powerful learning legal solutions Energy sector insights The Clifford Chance Academy The pace of change in the global economy Topics covered include renewables, business demands that we expedite the exchange of experience across borders, through development opportunities that also focus on opportunities and new legal frameworks that are churning up the sector’s regulatory landscape. 5,127 participants in the Academy’s the key sectors in which our clients work. global curriculum A client presentation on new developments in The Clifford Chance Academy’s dedicated the industry, together with a visit to a local annual training session on the Energy sector for senior associates, held in Düsseldorf, brings lawyers together from across the firm. power plant, ensured that discussions were all the more insightful by being based on time at, and views from, the coalface. 11% increase on the previous year Global learning, cross-border skills At Clifford Chance, our aim is straightforward – to be at the forefront of the emerging elite group of international law firms. Clearly, we can only achieve this if we give our clients an excellent quality of service. That means having outstanding lawyers at every level of the firm with profound technical knowledge, excellent business and management skills, and the appetite to improve by constantly learning more. Legal training is provided alongside ‘on-thejob’ development opportunities, with local courses complemented by regional and global programmes to give a fully international perspective on the issues our clients encounter. As importantly, the Clifford Chance Academy helps build management, people and client skills, supporting progress and development in the business of the firm and the management of our client relationships. Much teaching takes place in the classroom, involves clients, and provides opportunities to learn alongside colleagues from other Clifford Chance offices. This is complemented by a fast growing portfolio of popular e-learning modules and online lectures. Corporate responsibility report 2012 Clifford Chance LLP 15 Diversity is business critical We take great pride in the diversity of our firm Ethnic minorities Our continued success is furthered by our We believe that promoting diversity means Partners* people being able to deliver a diverse range creating an inclusive work environment where NY/Washington DC 2.9% of viewpoints and solutions – the fresh everyone has the opportunity to succeed London 6.1% perspectives that are vital to giving our without obstacles based on their gender, Lawyers* clients a competitive edge. marital status, race, colour, national or ethnic origin, disability, religious belief, sexual NY/Washington DC 28.9% Clifford Chance provides opportunities for orientation, age or any other basis prohibited London 13.1% people based upon merit and regardless of under applicable law. background, and we continuously strive to Business Services* ensure there are no barriers to equality of We undertake to explore creative means for NY/Washington DC 42.8% opportunity. We are intolerant of people finding and cultivating those individuals with London 12.2% who act in ways which harm this aim. the potential to develop valued skills and qualities and for continuing that development * self-reporting as ethnic minority throughout their career with the firm. Gender diversity Gender imbalance is not unique to Clifford To be successful we must be transparent We are making incremental progress – Chance. But addressing it is our collective in our statistics, objective in our processes small steps in the right direction, as we responsibility. To do so we are focusing on and provide the tools and support that continue to strive hard to reach our goal seven key themes: policy, transparency, people need. We need to ensure that of 30 per cent women partners. objectivity, education, mentoring, recruitment, appraisal and promotion networking and role models. processes are built around objective and globally recognised criteria. Gender balance – firm-wide data There are a number of concurrent initiatives around each of these themes, at both a The continuous examination by management 2012 2011 2010 global and local level. Some of these of the numbers – and requiring an explanation Partners % Female 15.3% 14.5% 14.8% initiatives are more observable, such as panel of the gaps between recruitment, attrition and Other fee earners % Female 49.1% 49.0% 48.6% presentations, invitations to networking experienced lawyer representation versus the Business Services % Female 70.5% 68.4% 69.4% events, Open Forum discussions, training partner slate – is some of the most important for the Management Committee and the work we can do. This also enables examination allocation of a career development partner of regional differences and local challenges, to every associate globally. for example, highlighting where imbalance particularly starts to evidence itself in career paths. 16 Clifford Chance LLP Corporate responsibility report 2012 Community Chance for Children with Save the Children Read the story on p18 Corporate responsibility report 2012 Clifford Chance LLP 17 Global initiatives 1, 2, 3. Counting… It isn’t difficult. Yet for 33,000 children in the poorest areas of Delhi, this age-old process would have remained unintelligible had it not been for the Clifford Chance Foundation’s three-year partnership with Save the Children. The initiative is just one of the ways in which Clifford Chance’s community work improves the lives of many. Under the guidance of the Clifford Chance Foundation, and through the investment of time and teamwork with clients, colleagues and alumni, our access to justice, access to education and access to finance activities are life changing. Our ‘giving’ combines funding, legal advisory and volunteering efforts to have a lasting impact amongst the global communities in which we work and live. Some highlights £17.04m time cost value of lawyers’ 105 partners sitting on 200 charities in 60 different pro bono and community not-for-profit boards countries supported by the hours Clifford Chance Foundation since its launch 18 Clifford Chance LLP Corporate responsibility report 2012 Community Opening closed doors The firm invested more than 50,000 hours of time and £1 million However, while participation in our CR programmes remains high (for example, in supporting access to justice, access to finance and access to 73 per cent of lawyers in the UK and education initiatives in 2011/12. 88 per cent in the US are actively involved) the total number of hours contributed by Behind this figure was good progress towards meeting the targets the firm decreased this year. we set ourselves, including a 21 per cent increase in the number The reasons are varied and, in the UK, included of hours contributed by our business services teams as well as a good the closure of Law For All, the not-for-profit solicitors with whom we had delivered the bulk uptick in pro bono and volunteering time across our German offices. of our pro bono social welfare law services over the last 10 years. This coincided with extremely high levels of client activity in some of our key 50,324 pro bono and community 4,033 community hours £1m of Clifford Chance regions such as Asia Pacific and the US which has absorbed resources. Global strategic partnerships hours invested by lawyers invested by business Foundation funds services staff committed in 2011/12 Our global CR Committee is looking at how we can ensure that the hours contribution from the firm resumes its upward trend in the coming years. Critical to achieving this will be our new global strategic partnerships with a number of NGOs (see p6). All of these relationships will be led by our partners, an important factor in helping us to meet our goal of increasing partner visibility and leadership in CR activities, which is so important in setting the tone across the firm. Chance for Children Counting on Clifford Chance In May 2009, Save the Children and vulnerable children in Delhi with a better the Foundation launched a three-year quality of education. To this end, children’s partnership – ‘Chance for Children’ – groups have now been set up in 50 schools, to give disadvantaged Indian children a providing children with an important voice better education. In the poorest areas, in the development of school plans. 29 per cent of fourth year students Furthermore, all 50 schools now have child cannot read a basic text, whilst 15 per protection committees, with 18 having a cent cannot count to 100. Over the last functioning resource centre providing a eight months, significant strides have stimulating learning environment. been made towards providing 33,000 Corporate responsibility report 2012 Clifford Chance LLP 19 Helping 100,000 people Clifford Chance Foundation – The continued economic uncertainty and distributing the donations Working with clients to hardship faced by many means it is all the The Clifford Chance Foundation funds help victims of crime more important for us to make volunteering include approximately £1 million per annum in opportunities available to people within the addition to any charitable giving that individual firm, and to work alongside clients and offices currently undertake. The funds are split Goldman Sachs/My Sisters’ Place alumni in our community efforts – ambitions between three separate areas of community in New York represented in our CR goals (see p26). activity: access to education, access to justice This desire to engage and motivate as many and access to finance. For many years, our New York office has of our people as possible, has been central partnered with My Sisters’ Place (MSP), Since the Foundation’s launch, donations providing pro bono legal services, funding to the launch this year of our Helping have been made to more than 200 different for a full-time legal fellow, and hands-on 100,000 People initiative (see p7) which is charities in 60 different countries. volunteer assistance at their shelters and creating a buzz around the new opportunities For instance, the Foundation is the driving facilities that support victims of domestic for our people to get involved, engaging in force behind the firm’s Access to Justice violence and abuse. Last year, the firm projects such as those highlighted on the Award (see p8 for more); is funding a joint demonstrated its long-term commitment following pages. initiative with Clifford Chance’s relationship to MSP by developing a new pro bono Joint efforts, common ground law firm in Vietnam, VILAF and Standard partnership with Goldman Sachs in which Chartered Bank Vietnam to renovate and two-person teams, comprising Clifford Working with more clients on CR initiatives improve the educational facilities at an Chance and Goldman Sachs lawyers, is a key target for Clifford Chance. orphanage for severely mentally and physically participated in several MSP U Visa In 2011/12 we enjoyed the opportunity to disabled children in North Vietnam, and has clinics. The Goldman Sachs employees combine efforts with 27 client organisations, donated generously to disaster relief efforts volunteered for the MSP U Visa clinics up from 19 the previous year, creating new co-ordinated by Save the Children and as part of Community TeamWorks, chances in communities where we and our International Rescue Committee in East the firm’s global volunteer initiative that clients see opportunities to create social value Africa, following severe drought. encourages employees to take a day out by sharing skills, resources and expertise. of the office and spend it volunteering with local non-profit organisations. The U Visa grants legal immigration status to immigrant crime victims and within three years the possibility of obtaining a green card. Left: The Foundation funded the building of three new classrooms at the David School in the rural Koya District of Sierra Leone. The classrooms were opened on 25 November 2011, creating 100 new places and enabling the School to open its doors to secondary schoolchildren for the first time. 20 Clifford Chance LLP Corporate responsibility report 2012 Community Access to There is a huge variety of work happening all across the firm in support of this theme with partners, lawyers and business services Shanghai In Shanghai, the Clifford Chance education Jiu Long Scholarship offers students from often working together on long-term underprivileged backgrounds financial commitments. The examples here are just support and encouragement, as well a flavour of these many projects. as internship opportunities in our Access to education presents Dubai Shanghai office. opportunities for all members In Dubai, the adoption of the Special Needs Tokyo Family Children Development Center (SNF) of the firm, including those as our chosen charity brings the office After the earthquake in Japan on 11 March without a legal training, to 2011, our Tokyo CR team was determined together, in providing vital volunteering to help rebuild communities torn apart by help others. and financial support. disaster. They drove and channelled more than London £100,000 in donations by members of the firm and the Foundation to support relief efforts, A reading and numeracy programme in and took part in the Kizuna High School London with Shapla Primary School has project – a mentoring and support programme been running since 1995, helping more for more than 100 high school students from than 1,000 children with their literacy the Tohoku region, many of whom had lost and numeracy. immediate family in the disaster. Access to Our lawyers spend years honing their skills and their involvement in this work ensures that a wider range of individuals, many of circumstances, individuals in immigration detention have a right to judicial review of decisions to refuse them refugee status. justice whom may not otherwise be able to access any legal support, benefit from their expertise. Our lawyers also find the work rewarding in Around 1,000 such detainees in Australia now have a right to review. Partners Diana Chang and Tim Grave, and a number of terms of their own personal development. associates with assistance from business Providing access to justice, services staff, have worked on several referrals Italy from the Americas to Europe from PILCH on applications for judicial In Italy, we provided legal assistance to review in the Federal Magistrates Court and and the Middle East, in Asia ‘Thalidomidici Italiani onlus’, negotiating appeals to the Federal Court of Australia. Pacific and in Africa, means with the Italian Ministry of Health to pass a US using our advocacy talents to law in favour of victims obtaining damages, invalidity allowances and pensions. In the US, we worked alongside Equal Justice see the rule of law upheld as Initiative on a case before the Supreme Court Sydney well as giving citizens essential, of the United States, which handed down Our team in Sydney is supporting Public an historic decision in joint cases Miller v. legal advice. Alabama and Jackson v. Arkansas, ruling Interest Law Clearing House’s (PILCH) Offshore Asylum Seekers’ Project. In 2011 mandatory sentences of life without the the High Court of Australia handed down a possibility of parole, unconstitutional for judgment which held that, in certain juveniles convicted of homicide. Access to In addition to working on the high-level development of effective microfinance structures and the implementation of EdM project in Togo which will provide financial, technical and operational support to local microfinance institutions, with the finance microfinance projects, our teams of lawyers and business services staff also provide support and advice to people in our project set to benefit 5,000 people. Russia communities who find themselves vulnerable In Russia, Clifford Chance co-supports By widening access to finance, as a result of a lack of financial understanding with Citi Group Foundation the Russian we use our resources and or as they face additional economic pressures Microfinance Center, which is devoted in these more straitened times. to raising financial literacy of low-income financial legal advisory skills, families and improving their access particularly in the field of France to financial services. microfinance. Entrepreneurs du Monde (EdM) is a nonprofit organisation founded in 1998, based in France. The Foundation is funding a new Corporate responsibility report 2012 Clifford Chance LLP 21 Access to education Singapore shelter offers hope Casa Raudha is a women’s shelter in Singapore that provides shelter and care to abused and homeless women, empowering them to be more confident and self-reliant. The shelter accommodates 50 residents, some of whom come to Casa Raudha with their children. The Clifford Chance team in Singapore runs This will make a huge impact. a number of volunteering initiatives to make The women can use the computers Casa Raudha gives the women space to the day go better for children at the centre. to write CVs and look for jobs. rebuild their lives. To help in this, Clifford They have included an art class, which The children will have somewhere Chance has sponsored a computer and inspired a series of works displayed at the for homework and reading. reading room, providing financial support and centre’s official opening, and practical support IT guidance on buying the right equipment. for a kitchen garden. Casa Raudha Access to justice Community Links in London: Combined resources bridge the gap Community Links provides a range of services for children, young people and the elderly throughout the London Borough of Newham, one of the most deprived areas of the UK. Withdrawal of local authority funding of advice services and significant reductions in the national legal aid budget made it difficult for Community Links to sustain its advice services this year, at a time when demand for them was increasing because of the economic downturn and changes to the welfare system. Clifford Chance provided 1,600 appointments at the two free weekly advice clinics it ran and funded at Community Links and so made a significant contribution to the vital work that the organisation does to secure access to justice for local people. Access to finance Macro effort = microfinance Clifford Chance’s thriving relationship their core business. Our London and with Citi Microfinance, combined with Washington, DC offices provided crucial its involvement in their award-winning representation to Citi for many of the loans programme, has culminated in Clifford Chance used within the programme, in jurisdictions becoming Citi’s law firm of choice for including Honduras, Romania, Jordan, microfinance projects. Uganda and Turkey. Clifford Chance was involved in The programme has helped 333,000 micro Citi Microfinance’s award winning (Business entrepreneurs, 84 per cent of them women, in in the Community Award for Excellence 2012) 16 countries, with an average loan size of $414. programme of embedding microfinance into 22 Clifford Chance LLP Corporate responsibility report 2012 Environment Sustainable energy Lake Kivu, Rwanda Read the story on p24 Corporate responsibility report 2012 Clifford Chance LLP 23 Resourceful approaches We continue to take a leading role in renewable energy and clean tech projects the world over, using our deepset sector knowledge and experience to help our clients while managing the environmental footprint of our own business activities. Our commitment to reducing our impact on the environment extends to day—to-day life at Clifford Chance. We have set ourselves a number of ambitious targets to reduce our environmental footprint. Some highlights -33% reduction in CO2 emissions -21% reduction in paper Tier 1 Clifford Chance ranked Tier 1 per FTE from 2007/08 consumption from 2007/08 for Environment: Climate baseline base line Change in Chambers UK 2012 and No.2 worldwide in the PLC Which lawyer? Environment Super League 2011 24 Clifford Chance LLP Corporate responsibility report 2012 Environment Advising clients on sustainable solutions Clifford Chance is advising clients across six continents on new green initiatives, climate change, and sustainability issues in various contexts. They include offsetting and carbon reporting, building climate change and sustainability elements into commercial property projects and transactions, and the development of low carbon and renewable energy projects. The Green Deal Solar innovation for Spain Efficient energy The Green Deal initiative is one of the first of its A team of Banking, Finance and Real Estate lawyers in Kibuye, Rwanda kind anywhere in the world, and is being set up advised BayernLB, Commerzbank and Rabobank by the UK Government with the aim of improving on the limited resource debt funding of the 30MW energy efficiency in the UK for personal homes Puerto Errado 2 thermal solar power plant in Murcia, and businesses. A London-based team is advising Spain. The plant, which was completed in February an industry-led consortium which has signed a 2012, is the world’s first utility-scale Linear Fresnel memorandum of understanding to develop a plan concentrated solar power (CSP) plant. The plant for The Green Deal Finance Company (GDFC), produces around 50 million kilowatt hours of a not-for-profit organisation, which will be helping electricity a year – enough to power almost to finance the initiative. The Green Deal will come 12,000 households. into effect from October 2012, and is innovative in providing secured up-front financing for energy efficiency improvements which will be repaid through savings on energy bills. Clifford Chance’s Africa Group is advising on the financing of a 100MW power plant, marine landing site and related methane gas extraction and production facilities More natural power to Peru Dahanu Solar Power Plant in Kibuye, Lake Kivu, Rwanda. Our US team advised the International Finance We advised US Ex-Im Bank in connection with a The Africa Power Deal of the Year 2011 Corporation (IFC) and a group of commercial banks direct loan to the Dahanu Solar Power Limited (Euromoney Project Finance Magazine) will in connection with the US$400 million financing sponsored by Reliance Power Limited to finance raise and process methane gas trapped deep for the construction, completion, ownership and the purchase of 49MW of photovoltaic cells from in the waters of Lake Kivu for use as fuel operation of the 168MW Cheves hydroelectric First Solar, Inc. project in Peru, which is being developed by to generate critically needed electricity for SN Power. the people of Rwanda, mitigating the environmental hazards associated with the natural release of these gases and reducing the risk to the two million people who live around the lake. Corporate responsibility report 2012 Clifford Chance LLP 25 Environment Minding our own footprint The environment arm of our CR strategy combines global targets and consistency of commitment with local initiative and creativity, to make us more efficient in our consumption of energy and resources. Addressing our footprint can be especially challenging as the geographic spread of our business and the variety of office sizes, ownership status and tenancy agreements make a ‘cookie cutter’ approach impractical. Despite these challenges, CO2 emissions per office have fallen by 55% since we launched our environmental targets in 2007/08, through the enterprise and drive of teams and individuals around the firm. Green IT Practical interior design Tackling change Our most recent CR Award winner in the In connection with the major refurbishment of our Abu Dhabi has the highest carbon footprint and Environment category, an IT group from London Washington, DC office, a number of environmental water usage per capita in the world. Our office there and Paris, has worked over the last few years on initiatives were put in place, including reusing more has a number of initiatives to help tackle that figure three initiatives: reducing our number of servers, than 82 per cent of furniture, installation of energy and a recent move to new premises on Al Maryah introducing new energy-efficient monitors, and using star appliances, and wood obtained from FSC Island has done nothing to diminish that ambition. desktop power management. They have already sources. Water-conserving plumbing fixtures were At the new location the office continues to recycle reduced our energy consumption by 70 per cent installed, reducing water usage by more than 20 per all paper, and has successfully made provisions to and collectively, once complete, these initiatives will cent. A building-wide recycling system was also set recycle aluminium and plastic materials. Recycling reduce the firm’s carbon footprint by over up allowing occupants to recycle all paper, plastic, efforts are encouraged through a continuous 1,500 tonnes per annum. That is the equivalent metal (aluminium cans), glass and cardboard items. communication campaign. The team is also involved of running nearly 50,000 PC monitors a year and is The buildout project was awarded LEED (Leadership in the organisation of Clifford Chance’s participation significantly contributing to our annual reduction in in Energy and Environmental Design) Silver in Earth Hour (see p3). CO2 emissions. certification by the US Green Building Council. Support for Fair Climate ‘Greenovation’ for Frankfurt Each year our Amsterdam office measures its In the wake of ongoing renovation work, our environmental footprint and chooses a charity project Frankfurt office has introduced a number of to offset its carbon emissions against, allowing the environmental initiatives. For example, movement office to state that it is climate neutral. Not only do sensitive lighting has been fitted on all floors along the projects compensate for the office’s emissions, with automatic ceiling lighting which switches off but they also help improve living conditions for after 10 minutes. communities in developing countries. This year’s chosen project was Fair Climate Fund’s Basa Magogo Cookstoves, an initiative which helps improve the living standards of 40,000 families by teaching them how to use more efficient cooking methods. With 90 per cent less in-house smoke created, living conditions are improved and, by using 50 per cent less coal, the impact on the environment is greatly decreased. 26 Clifford Chance LLP Corporate responsibility report 2012 Our progress in 2011/12 Driving forward our CR strategy is a set of targets which help us to understand the progress we are making against our goals, and to ensure we maintain momentum. These targets are reviewed throughout the year by senior management and are shared with staff and other stakeholders annually. Governance target: Increase partner visibility and leadership in CR activities Action: Progress: Increase the number of partners who are 105 partners sat on not-for-profit boards (2011: 70 partners) trustees or directors of not-for-profit 55 partners leading relationships with not-for-profit organisations (2011: 38) organisations and/or the number of partners leading pro bono relationships Governance target: Increase engagement with our people Action: Progress: Increase the number of pro bono and community Average number of pro bono hours recorded globally per lawyer FTE: 16.7 (2011: 18.8) hours recorded globally (excluding London) by 5% per lawyer FTE, vs 2010/11 figures Maintain the number of pro bono and Average number of pro bono hours recorded in London per lawyer FTE: 32.7 (2011: 34.7) community hours recorded per lawyer FTE in London vs 2010/11 figures Increase the proportion of lawyers 48% lawyers undertook pro bono work, with highs of 88% in the US; 73% in London and undertaking pro bono work across the firm 72% in Tokyo (2011: 53% lawyers undertook pro bono work) to 60% by the end of 2013/14 Review global targets across all community Targets reviewed by global CR Committee and approved by Management Committee. and pro bono activities These are set out opposite Continue to run awareness-raising A number of significant awareness raising initiatives, including: our annual CR Awards, programmes around all aspects of the World Environment Day, Earth Hour, women’s networking initiatives in multiple offices, CR strategy staff events with charity partners to encourage involvement and the launch of our new Helping 100,000 People initiative, designed to increase engagement Business alignment target: Embed CR into client relationships Action: Progress: Increase the number of pro bono/CR 37 collaborations with 27 clients (2011: 31 collaborations with 19 clients) initiatives in which we partner with clients Embed CR into our global alumni Launched information sheet on alumni participation in CR programme at alumni event in programme June 2011 Included pro bono and community outreach section in Alumni Yearbook Developed mechanism for capturing time contributed by alumni to CR programme Facilitated extension of indemnity cover to retired alumni carrying out pro bono work Raise awareness amongst the global business Global BD and CR teams developed information-sharing system to raise awareness across development (BD) community and associates the firm of how to develop CR collaborations with clients about how the firm can partner with clients on CR People target: Achieve a more diverse partnership Action: Progress: Facilitate management training across the Percentage of female partners 15.3% (2011: 14.5%) partnership in support of 30% female partners ambition Induction course for new partners updated with additional focus on diversity People target: Achieve a more diverse staff population Action: Progress: Further roll-out diversity training across Senior associate course updated with additional focus on diversity the firm Induction programme for all new employees now includes diversity information London trainee induction updated to include information on diversity and on the firm’s networking groups Corporate responsibility report 2012 Clifford Chance LLP 27 Environment target: Every office to achieve minimum standards by 2013 in every category; offices achieving the minimum standard to maintain progress Action: Progress: Every office to purchase 10% of energy from The following offices obtained some/all of their energy from ‘green’ sources: Amsterdam, renewable sources where available by 2013 Düsseldorf, Frankfurt, Munich and Luxembourg (100%) and London (5%). From May 2012 London is purchasing 100% from green sources Every office to reduce CO2 emissions by at Total CO2 emissions per FTE have fallen by 33% since 2007/08 to 5.29 tonnes (2011: 5.55 least 3% per employee from 2007/08 baseline tonnes per FTE) Total CO2 emissions per office have fallen by 55% since 2007/08, including a 6% decrease over last year Every office to recycle at least 25% of all 19 offices met or exceeded the target for cans; 25 for plastics; 29 for IT hardware; 24 for batteries; general waste 29 for toner cartridges; 27 for lightbulbs; 25 for cardboard; 23 for glass (2011: 19 cans; 20 plastics; 27 IT hardware; 24 batteries; 28 toner cartridges; 22 lightbulbs; 24 cardboard; 20 glass) Every office to recycle at least 30% of office 30 offices are now meeting at least the minimum requirement of 30% recycled paper paper waste Every office to reduce paper use by 10% per Paper consumption has fallen by 21% since 2007/08 FTE from 2007/08 consumption Every office to ensure at least 10% of paper 20 offices are now exceeding this target (2011: 17 offices) has at least 30% post-consumer recycled content or comes from FSC or other internationally recognised certified sources with a local carbon footprint Work with key suppliers to understand, Piloting a third party application to capture suppliers’ environmental credentials, enabling us manage and reduce the environmental to track their performance and reflect this in our contract management process impacts of our purchases Work continues in evaluating new suppliers against our environmental remit Monitor business travel in each office Seeking to reflect this in the application referred to above Further data relating to our CR performance and our GRI report can be found on our website at www.cliffordchance.com/cr Corporate responsibility targets for 2012/13 Vision: Target for 2012/13: To enhance the pro bono and community Achieve 51,000 pro bono hours in 2012/13 (or 16.7 hours per FTE) outreach contribution we make to the Increase the proportion of lawyers undertaking pro bono work from 48% to 60% by the end communities in which we operate of 2013/14 Increase the number of business services staff volunteering hours by 10% from 4,000 to 4,400 by year end Increase the number of partners sitting as trustees on not-for-profit boards by 10% from 105 to 116 by year end Increase the number of partners leading pro bono relationships by 15% from 55 to 64 by year end Develop at least 10 strategic global relationships with NGOs by year end Increase the number of clients with whom we work jointly on community involvement initiatives to 30 and increase the number of initiatives with those clients to 40 by year end To achieve greater diversity and invest Achieve a more gender balanced Partnership comprised of at least 30% female partners in talent by recruiting and developing the Develop four new business skills training courses as part of the global curriculum during 2012/13 best people By year end, provide 30 work experience places to young people from less privileged backgrounds in accordance with the PRIME initiative in the UK To be a leader in our industry in how we Ensure that each of our offices runs at least one environmental awareness campaign in 2012/13 measure and manage our own environmental Every office to reduce CO2 emissions by at least 3% from 2007/08 baseline by year end impact and find legal solutions for our clients to facilitate the implementation of sustainable Every office to buy 10% of our energy from renewable sources where available by year end energy technologies and products Every office to reduce paper use by 10% per employee from 2007/08 consumption by year end Every office to recycle at least 25% of all general waste by year end Every office to recycle at least 30% of office paper waste by year end Every office to ensure at least 10% of paper has at least a 30% post-consumer recycled content or comes from FSC or other internationally recognised, certified sources showing a low carbon footprint by year end 28 Clifford Chance LLP Corporate responsibility report 2012 UN Global Compact Clifford Chance is proud to be a participant in the UN Global Compact. Our participation commits us to align our strategies, operations and organisational culture with the 10 Principles, covering human rights, labour, environment and corruption. Our commitments are relevant to the way we operate as a business including our provision of legal services to both private and public sector clients. The information included in development of sustainable and our lawyers are helping to educate The table below shows which this report provides a number effective laws and regulations their peers within the firm as well indicators support our commitment of examples of our work and in these areas. For example, as in other organisations on the to the principles of the UN initiatives in these areas. Clifford Chance lawyers played an relevance of the Guiding Principles Global Compact. As part of our Our Annual reviews, our website important role in the development for their day-to-day legal practice. commitment to the Compact, and our client briefings provide of the UK Bribery Act and in we have prepared a Global Last year, the firm also became a fuller picture of some of the relation to other significant Reporting Initiative index which a member of the UK Network ways in which we advise clients in anti-corruption initiatives, such can be found on our website at of the Global Compact and is relation to human rights, labour, as the World Economic Forum’s www.cliffordchance.com/ungc. actively participating in the environmental protection, Partnership Against Corruption. We have refocused our GRI network, including sitting on sustainability and anti-corruption. We also made a significant reporting on the indicators which panels discussing the effective contribution to the development we believe are most relevant to our As a leading international law firm, implementation of human rights of the UN Guiding Principles on business and of greatest interest to we also consider that we have guidance by business. Business and Human Rights and our stakeholders. a responsibility to help shape the Issue areas UN Global Compact Principles Relevant GRI indicators Human rights Principle 1. Businesses should support and respect the protection LA13, HR1, HR2, HR3, of internationally proclaimed human rights. HR5, PR8 Principle 2. Businesses should make sure that they are not complicit HR1, HR2, HR3, HR5 in human rights abuses. Labour Principle 3. Businesses should uphold the freedom of association HR1, HR2, HR3, HR5 and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. Principle 4. Businesses should uphold the elimination of all forms HR1, HR2, HR3 of forced and compulsory labour. Principle 5. Businesses should uphold the effective abolition of HR1, HR2, HR3 child labour. Principle 6. Businesses should uphold the elimination of EC7, LA13, HR1 discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Environment Principle 7. Businesses should support a precautionary approach EC2, EN18, EN26 to environmental challenges. Principle 8. Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote EN4, EN6, EN7, EN16, greater environmental responsibility. EN18, EN26, EN28, PR3, PR4 Principle 9. Businesses should encourage the development EN4, EN5, EN6, EN7, and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. EN18, EN26 Anti-corruption Principle 10. Businesses should work against corruption in all SO2, SO3, SO4, SO6 its forms, including extortion and bribery. Supporting charities worldwide The Clifford Chance Foundation’s support for improving access to justice, access to education and access to finance extends around the world and has reached hundreds of charities since the Foundation was formed. Decisions on the charities and NGOs that receive its support are based on the inspiration of Clifford Chance offices across the Firm (see office location in brackets) alongside global initiatives (no specific office listed). Charities supported by Clifford Chance Foundation (since 2009) Access to education Hope and Homes for Children Spitalfields Music (London) IPSEA (London) AJAM HOPEHIV START (Dubai and Abu Dhabi) Legal Action Group (London) Albert-Schweitzer-Schule HOSPICE Casa Sperantei (Bucharest) Stichting Support São Tomé and London Legal Support Trust (London) Ark Association International Rescue Committee Príncipe (Amsterdam) Malian Association of Women Lawyers Asian University for Women IGS (Integrierte Gesamtschule Street Kids International (Luxembourg) Asociación Anidan Stierstadt) (Germany) Student Hubs (London) Microjustice 4 All Asociación Nuevos Caminos (Madrid) Island for School Children (Germany) Talizman (Warsaw) Newham Asian Women’s Project Asociación Vive y Deja Vivir (Spain) Johann-Peter-Schäfer-Schule The Citizens Foundation (London) Assistance to Poor Children’s Agency (Germany) The Future Centre (Abu Dhabi) New York City Anti-Violence Project (Singapore) Jui Long School (Shanghai) The Goethe University (Germany) Northern Virginia Family Service Associação Vida Jovem (São Paulo) Karen Hilltribes Trust The Place2Be Peace Brigades International (London) Bag Books (London) KASAK The Royal School for Deaf Children PILnet (Moscow) Balia Foundation (Madrid) KIDS (London) Margate (London) Polish Helsinki Foundation for Human Bangkok Refugee Center (Bangkok) Kinder, Kinder Beruf und Familie E.V. The Sequal Trust Rights (Warsaw) Beautiful People (Singapore) (KiTA Kleinder) The Victoria Climbié Foundation Reprieve Belgian American Educational (Germany) Tomorrow’s People (London) Rights of Women (London) Foundation (Brussels) Kinder-und Jugendfreizeiteinrichtung TourAid San Ignacio de Moxos (Spain) Big Brothers Big Sisters Deutschland V24 (Germany) Trees for Cities (London) Skillshare (Germany) Klingerschule (Germany) Trinity Laban The equality effect Bo’Ai School Foundation Kings Wood School Nepal Trust Umwelthaus UK Environmental Law Association (Hong Kong) Klong Toey Community Centre Vida Jovem (São Paulo) (London) Build Africa Lar Maria de Nazareth (Madrid) Vivi Down Onlus (Italy) WADI (Middle East) Career Academy (London) Lichtblick Hasenbergl (Germany) Vocational Training Centre, Casal dels Infants del Raval (Madrid) Magic Breakfast (London) Oddusuddan, Sri Lanka (Dubai) Access to finance Casal dels Infants (Spain) Magic Me (London) Wat Shepakaw School (Bangkok) 999 Club (London) Centrul Vietii Noi Association MainKammerOrchester /Deutscher Whoosh (London) Asociación Domenchina Shatu (Bucharest) Kinderschutzbund (Germany) Wir helfen Afrika e.V. (Germany) (Madrid) Child at Street 11 (Singapore) Malaika Kids Women for Women International buss-Kinder e.V. (Germany) Chungking Mansions Service Centre Mariya Arafasha Burundi Foundation Yalari (Sydney) Crossroads (Hong Kong) (Hong Kong) (Madrid) Young Enterprise (London) East London Bond City Year (US, London) Mayor’s Fund for London Young Vic Foundation (London) Entrepreneurs du Monde Civic Association Provázek (Prague) Music in Hospitals (London) Equal Justice Initiative (US) Compassion for Migrant Children Narodna Dopomoha – Lviv (Kyiv) Access to justice FareShare (London) (Beijing) NASIO Trust African Prisons Project Five Talents Consortium For Street Children Nesbitt Centre (Hong Kong) Association of Malian Women Lawyers Friendicoes (India) (GSSC) Coram Life Education (London) Niños de Guatemala Asylum Access (Bangkok) Fundación Nantik Lum David School Trust Philippine Community Fund Asylum Support Appeals Project Grameen Foundation Education for Development Place2Be (London) Integra (Moscow) Eleanor Smith School (London) Point Foundation Avocats sans Frontières France International Bridges to Justice (US) Entreculturas PSE (Singapore) Casa Raudha Women Home Italian Red Cross (Italy) Everychild Ukraine Charitable Fund Ramanas School (Singapore) Japan Association for Refugees (Tokyo) (Kyiv) Richard House Children’s Hospice Civic Association Provazek (Prague) Jeugdsportfonds (Amsterdam) Fairbridge Romanian Education Trust (Bucharest) Community Links (London) Microloan Foundation Fundación Juan XXIII (Spain) Room to Read East Manchester Legal Advice Clinic Moyai (Tokyo) Fondazione Banco Alimentare Onlus Saint Patrick’s Foundation (Madrid) (London) Münchner Tafel e.V. Fundebe (Spain) Sahel e.V. – AMPO (Germany) Fair Trials International Oxfam Enterprise Development Fundación Mozambique Sur Sarahana (GSSC) Fundación Mary Ward (Spain) Programme Fundació Terral (Barcelona) Save the Children Haitian Ministry of Women’s Affairs Prisoners Abroad (London) Georgetown University Law Center School-Home Support (London) Project Project “Lebensnaht” (Germany) (US) Sciences Po (Paris) Index on Censorship Providence Row (London) Green Gecko Social Business Trust International Crisis Group Public Interest Law Institute (Moscow) Gorkha Learning for Life Solapur School in India (Dubai) International Law Book Facility Russian Microfinance Center Hands on Tokyo Soñar Despierto (Madrid) (London, Paris and São Paulo) (Moscow) Hanoi Hospice for the Elderly and Sonrisas de Bombay International Senior Lawyers Project Shivia Microfinance Disabled Children Special Educational Needs Families International Medical Corps United Fund for Belgium (Brussels) Historic Royal Palaces Support Group (Dubai) International Organization for Water Aid Migration (Warsaw) www.cliffordchance.com © Clifford Chance LLP, September 2012 Clifford Chance LLP is a limited liability partnership registered in England & Wales under number OC323571. Registered office: 10 Upper Bank Street, London E14 5JJ. We use the word ‘partner’ to refer to a member of Clifford Chance LLP or members, partners, directors, employees or consultants of Clifford Chance entities who are of equivalent standing and qualifications. This report has been printed on Hello Silk a paper which is certified by the Forest Stewardship Council®. The paper is made at a mill with EMAS and ISO 14001 environmental management system accreditation. This report was printed using vegetable oil based inks and by a CarbonNeutral® printer certified to ISO 14001 environmental management system and registered to EMAS the Eco Management Audit Scheme. Designed and produced by Radley Yeldar. www.ry.com
