SKF Care Annual Report 2011 Financial, environmental and social performance 4 President’s letter 8 Administration report Key data 2011 2010 Net sales, SEKm 66,216 61,029 Operating profit, SEKm 9,612 8,452 Operating margin, % 14.5 13.8 Profit before taxes, SEKm 8,932 7,549 Basic earnings per share, SEK 13.29 11.28 Dividend per share, SEK 5.50 1) 5.00 Cash flow, after investments and before financing, SEKm 3,848 -2,838 Return on capital employed, % 23.6 24.0 Equity/assets ratio, % 37.8 36.6 Additions to tangible assets, SEKm 1,839 1,651 Registered number of employees, 31 December 46,039 44,742 Average number of employees 42,886 40,206 Number of shares 31 December 2011: 455,351,068, of which 42,949,482 A shares and 412,401,586 B shares. 1) Dividend according to the Board’s proposed distribution of surplus. Vision Mission Drivers Values To equip the world To strengthen SKF’s global • Profitability • Empowerment with SKF knowledge leadership and sustain • Quality • High ethics profitable growth by being • Innovation • Openness the preferred company: • Speed • Teamwork • for our customers, distributors • Sustainability and suppliers • for our employees • for our shareholders 82 Financial statements 138 Notes – Environmental and social performance This year’s annual report combines financial, environmental and social performance into one single report reflecting that sustainability, defined as SKF Care, is integral to the Group’s processes and operations and way of doing business. • 2 This is SKF • 4 President’s letter • 8 Administration report • 16 Report on the business – Business Care • 20 New market offers 2011 Content • 24 SKF’s business • 47 Shares and shareholders • 50 Financial objectives and strategy • 52 Sensitivity analysis • 54 AB SKF’s Board’s proposal for principles of remuneration for Group Management • 56 Report on the business – Environmental Care • 56 SKF Environmental, Health and Safety Policy, legal and regulatory compliance • 57 ISO 14001 Environmental Management System • 58 Climate change • 63 Report on the business – Employee Care • 67 Report on the business – Community Care • 72 SKF – the knowledge engineering company • 77 SKF’s markets • 82 Financial statements • 138 Notes – Environmental and social performance • 144 Corporate Governance Report • 154 Group management • 156 Glossary • 158 Definitions • 159 SKF’s platforms • 162 Awards • 163 SKF’s financial website • 164 SKF’s global campaign 2011 • 166 Seven-year review of the SKF Group • 167 Three-year review of the SKF divisions and seven-year review of per-share data • 168 General information 1 This is SKF The SKF Group is a leading global supplier of products, solutions and services within rolling bearings, seals, mechatronics, services and lubrication systems. Services include technical support, maintenance services, condition monitoring, asset efficiency optimization and training. SKF was founded in 1907 and rapidly grew to become a global The Group has global certification to IS0 14001 (environcompany. As early as 1920, the company was well established mental management system) and OHSAS 18001 (health and in Europe, North and Latin America, Asia and Africa. safety) standards. Its operations are also certified to either SKF has more than 130 manufacturing sites in 32 countries ISO 9001 or applicable customer industry standards, e.g. and is represented in over 130 countries through its own sales ISO/TS 16949 (automotive), AS9100 (aviation) or IRIS (railway) companies and over 15,000 distributor locations. for quality management systems. SKF is present in most industries, including cars and light trucks, aerospace, wind energy, railway, metal, machine tool, The Group’s investments in research and development medical, and food and beverage. has resulted in numerous innovations, forming bases for new standards, products and solutions in the bearing world. There SKF groups its technologies in five platforms: Bearings and were 325 first filings of patent applications in 2011. units, Seals, Mechatronics, Services, and Lubrication Systems. By utilizing capabilities from all or some of the platforms, SKF develops tailor-made offers for each industry, helping customers improve performance, reduce energy use and lower total costs. 2 This is SKF SKF is committed to Sustainability as one of its five strategic BeyondZero is SKF’s strategy to create a positive impact on drivers, the others being Profitability, Quality, Innovation and the environment. It consists of two simultaneous approaches: Speed. SKF defines sustainability as SKF Care including • to reduce the negative environmental impact resulting from Business Care, Environmental Care, Employee Care and SKF’s operations Community Care. • to offer new innovative technologies, products, and services that provide customers with enhanced environmental performance. BeyondZero influences all aspects of the Group’s value chain, including sourcing, the development of products, services and solutions, the operation of existing facilities and the establishment of new ones. SKF’s long-term financial targets are to have an operating margin level of 15%, annual sales growth in local currencies of 8% and a return on capital employed of 27%. Operating margin Changes in sales Return on capital in local currency employed Aquisitions/divestments Organic growth % % Y-o-Y % 14.5 13.8 15 12.9 20 30 24.9 12.2 16.3 24.0 24.0 23.6 13.2 14.2 25 15 10 20 5.7 10 7.1 15 9.1 5 10 5 -19.0 5 0 0 0 07 08 09 10 11 07 08 09 10 11 07 08 09 10 11 This is SKF 3 President’s letter 2011 was a very interesting and challenging year – one of two halves for the global economy. The first half was characterized by very broad-based growth both geographically and across nearly all industries. In the second half of the year, due primarily to the monetary challenges in many countries, growth slowed and while some areas like North America and Asia continued to grow we saw weakness developing in the European market. 2011 – a very interesting and challenging year SKF benefited from this good demand situation from our It is clear that we made significant progress towards operatcustomers and this, combined with the actions and initiatives ing in line with our financial targets in 2011 and this we will which we have put in place, meant that we have been able to continue in the coming years to ensure SKF continues to deliver a record result in terms of sales, operating profit and ­operate at these new higher financial levels. operating margin. The strong financial performance of the Group in 2011 Our long-term financial targets are to have an operating ­coupled with the outlook for the world economy means that the margin around the 15% level, to grow by 8% per annum in local Board is recommending to the annual shareholders’ meeting currencies and to achieve a ROCE of 27%. to increase the dividend by 10%, giving a dividend of SEK 5.50 The operating profit for the Group rose by 14% to SEK 9,612 per share. million giving an operating margin of 14.5%. Earnings per Last year I commented that we had started three main initia­ share increased by nearly 18% to SEK 13.29. tives to strengthen the Group and to achieve our new financial Our organic sales grew by over 11% in local currencies and targets. The initiatives are when we add the sales of Lincoln*, the company we acquired at the end of 2010, our growth was over 16%. However, in • accelerate profitable growth line with the global economy development we saw our sales • reduce cost and eliminate waste growth slow significantly at the end of the year and we will see • invest in growth this continue into the start of 2012. While many industries saw a very good development during the year our sales to the I am pleased to report that we have made significant progress renewable energy business and railway business in China and with all three initiatives and you can read a lot more about the automotive business in Europe weakened significantly in this in the annual report but let me just highlight a few key the second half of the year. Our ROCE finished the year at 23.6%. examples. * Lincoln Holdings Enterprises Inc. and its subsidiaries, referred to herein collectively as ”Lincoln”. 4 President’s letter Tom Johnstone, President and CEO • At the end of the year we were able to announce the largest growth rate for the Group, profitability develops well and ever order for the SKF Group which we gained from the the combined R&D activities are stepping up the pace of ­Chinese heavy truck manufacturer CNHTC. This is to supply innovation. a newly developed hub unit for their new range of vehicles. • For a number of years we have focused on helping our • We gained a number of orders for the renewable energy customers improve their asset efficiency. This is a key focus market with leading suppliers such as Vestas, Goldwind and area for SKF, and we work not only to achieve this but also to Sinovel. These orders give us a very good position in what is quantify the improvements and savings for our customers. a long-term strategic industry for the SKF Group. Last year we registered over SEK 3 billion in savings which were approved for our customers. This shows the value our • The integration of Lincoln, the lubrication systems company knowledge in friction reduction and asset efficiency has for we acquired at the end of 2010, has gone according to plan our customers. and we are seeing real benefits in our lubrication business from combining their team with the existing SKF team. Together they have grown the business well ahead of the “ Last year we registered over SEK 3 billion in savings which were approved for our customers. This shows the value our knowledge in ” ­friction reduction and asset efficiency has for our customers. President’s letter 5 Tom Johnstone talking to some of the players at the inauguration of the Gothia Cup in Gothenburg, Sweden, the largest youth football tournament in the world. In 2011, SKF renewed its contract as the Gothia Cup’s main sponsor for another three years. • Last year I mentioned that we are extending the work we • During the year we launched over 30 new products and had underway on Manufacturing Excellence into other areas solutions for our customers. As I mentioned last year an of the Group and supporting this with SKF Six Sigma. This increasing number of our new offers are focused on improvwe called Business Excellence. The roll-out and training is ing environmental performance for our customers through going well and I strongly believe that our customers and reduced energy consumption, improved productivity and employees will see real benefits from this in the years ahead. asset management. An SKF Six Sigma Academy will be established in 2012 to help this development. Savings from SKF Six Sigma projects • We opened our new bearing factory in Dalian, China in Sepamounted to nearly SEK 400 million for the year. tember which joins our other factory in the same region. This new factory will manufacture medium sized industrial • Innovation is the life blood of an engineering group such as bearings for the Asian markets. Two new factories are under SKF and we have steadily been stepping up our activities in construction. One is a seals factory in Mysore, India and the this area. Last year we raised our investment in R&D by over other is a bearing factory in Jinan, China. This will ensure 20%, increased the number of patents by nearly 30% and that we have local manufacturing to supply our important took some important steps for the future. We have estabcustomers in these markets. All these constructions are lished two new University Technical Centres in Sweden – built to the LEED standard for environmental design and one at Chalmers in Gothenburg and one at Luleå University. efficiency. At Chalmers we will focus on sustainability and at Luleå we will focus on condition monitoring and asset management. • Our work on sustainability, which we call SKF Care, is In addition we opened our new Global Technical Centre in increasingly an integrated part in how we work within SKF India strengthening our activities in this important market and how we do business with our customers. I am very and region and fully supporting our global drive on innovapleased that we were selected to be a member of the Dow tion. The centre builds on the previously opened automotive Jones’ Sustainability World Index for the 12th successive development centre and testing centre and when fully year and the FTSE4Good index for the 11th successive year. ramped up will employ around 400 engineers. This confirms we have the right focus on our work in this very important area as reflected in our annual report. 6 President’s letter “ The initiatives we started at the end of 2010 to support our new long-term financial targets are developing well, and we will continue to focus on them in the year ahead. This is a marathon, not a sprint and ” we have trained for it. In this annual report you will be able to read a lot more about financial targets are developing well, and we will continue to all the activities we have undertaken during the year. I believe focus on them in the year ahead. This is a marathon, not a it has been a very successful and active year for SKF with a sprint and we have trained for it. strong financial performance. In summary, 2011 was a very good year overall for the SKF Group and this would not have been possible without the Looking forward to 2012 strong support from all our stakeholders – customers and It is very difficult to see how the total world economy will per­distributors, employees and shareholders. I want to thank form in 2012 but it is expected that it will have a much weaker them all for their support. development than last year. The main concern and uncertainty However, in particular I want to thank each and every SKF is around the sovereign debt situation especially in Europe and employee. People make business and I strongly believe we the likely implications of this on growth in the region and glohave the best people in the business. bally. It is vital that this uncertainty is quickly removed by the SKF is on a journey to become “The Knowledge Engineering political leadership to give industry the base to build on. From Company” – and we have made good progress on this in 2011 a macroeconomic viewpoint, we expect to see positive growth and will continue to do so in 2012. continue in most regions of the world with Western Europe declining in the first half of the year and an uncertain second half. However, SKF is very well placed to manage and continue to develop our business in these uncertain times. We have taken Tom Johnstone many steps over a number of years to make the Group more President and CEO robust. We have invested heavily in the faster growing regions and segments, in acquisitions to strengthen our total offer and in innovation. We also have invested in our people through our network of SKF Colleges, our increased training schemes and our greater focus on health and safety. The initiatives we started at the end of 2010 to support our new long-term President’s letter 7 Content 10 SKF Care 11 Reporting approach and scope 12 This is SKF Care to us 14 Highlights of 2011 16 Report on the business – Business Care 20 New market offers 2011 24 SKF’s business 47 Shares and shareholders 50 Financial objectives and strategy 52 Sensitivity analysis 54 AB SKF’s Board’s proposal for principles of remuneration for Group Management 56 Report on the business – Environmental Care 56 SKF Environmental, Health and Safety Policy, legal and regulatory compliance 57 ISO 14001 Environmental Management System 58 Climate change 63 Report on the business – Employee Care 67 Report on the business – Community Care 72 SKF – the knowledge engineering company 77 SKF’s markets Administration Report In this report financial, environmental and social performances of the Group are presented in a fully integrated format under the four dimensions of SKF Care, the SKF approach to sustainability. The four dimensions are: Business Care, Environmental Care, Employee Care and Community Care. The principles of SKF Care guide both the business done by the Group and the way in which it is carried out. This administration report is structured according to these four Care areas and will present recent developments, as well as explanations of how SKF works with these issues. Business Care Employee Care SKF BeyondZero™ Care Environmental Care Community Care • Business Care is built on a strong customer focus and on delivering a strong and sustainable financial performance and the right returns for shareholders. This should be achieved in accordance with the highest standards of ethical behaviour. • Environmental Care focuses on the Group’s responsibility to continually strive to reduce the negative impact on the environment from its own operations and those of its suppliers. BeyondZero combines this with the strategy to improve customers’ environmental performance through products and solutions that reduce environmental impact. • Employee Care assures a safe working environment and promotes the health, education and well-being of SKF’s employees. • Community Care defines the Group’s activities which make positive contributions to the communities in which it operates. 10 Administration Report • SKF Care Reporting approach and scope The SKF annual report for 2011 covers the reporting period 1 January engagement standard. The report of the review is on pages 142-143, to 31 December 2011, if no other information is given. integrated with the auditors’ report. With reference to the GRI G3 Application Level Criteria, the SKF Sustainability reporting Annual Report 2011 – financial, environment and social performance, Since 2000, SKF has applied the Global Reporting Initiative’s (GRI) is self-declared to having fulfilled the A+ application level, which is reporting guidelines in its sustainability reporting. SKF has reported confirmed by the external auditors. 2011 in accordance with GRI, and as in previous years, part of the Actual environmental and social performance data can be found in more detailed information is available at www.skf.com presented Notes – Environmental and social performance, see pages 138-141. together with the annual report (Topics related to SKF Annual A comprehensive overview of SKF’s sustainability policy, procedures Report 2011). and approach is included in the document Sustainability in SKF – SKF has been submitting its sustainability reports for third party Policies and practices, which can be found on www.skf.com. verification for over ten years. The 2011 report will again enjoy a limited assurance, in accordance with FAR’s (the institute for professionals in Corporate Governance Report the accountancy sector in Sweden) recommendation RevR 6 (Assurance SKF has selected to prepare its Corporate Governance Report of Sustainability Reports) and the international ISAE 3000 assurance separated from the Administration Report, see pages 144-153. Over the years, SKF has endorsed or subscribed to a number of internationally recognized principles, charters and guidelines which promote sustainable, ethical business practices. SKF’s commitment United Nations The United Nations Global Compact is a SKF has participated in the Global Compact ­strategic policy initiative for businesses that since 2006. SKF commits to the defined Global Compact are committed to aligning their operations principles within the Global Compact and to and strategies with ten universally accepted communicate its progress via its annual principles in the areas of human rights, report. labour, environment and anti-corruption. International Labour The International Labour Organisation (ILO) SKF adheres to the ILO Declaration on draws up and oversees international labour ­Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work. ­Organisation standards. It brings together representatives By doing so SKF commits to upholding basic of governments, employers and workers to human values established by the ILO. jointly shape policies and programs promoting decent work for all. The International Chamber of Commerce (ICC) SKF has endorsed the ICC Charter since 1992 International Chamber is the voice of world business championing and consequently applies its principles in all of Commerce the global economy as a force for economic its business activities. growth, job creation and prosperity. As required by the ICC Charter, SKF applies Its Business Charter for Sustainable a precautionary approach to the provision and ­Development issued in 1991 defines 16 calculation of products and services. This ­principles for environmental management. means that any technical claim made by SKF regarding product or operational performance shall be based on conservative assumptions. Organisation for The mission of the Organisation for Economic SKF endorse and apply the OECD Guidelines Co-operation and Development (OECD) is to for Multinational Companies. By doing this Economic Co-operation promote policies that will improve the eco­ SKF commits to conducting business in a and Development nomic and social well-being of people around ­global context in a responsible manner, the world. ­consistent with applicable laws and inter­ nationally recognized standards. Administration Report • Reporting approach and scope • Principles and Charters 11 This is SKF Care to us SKF Care is the common denominator for incorporating sustainability into the whole business. It is about care for the business, the environment, the employees and the communities. The objective is to integrate SKF Care into all aspects of the Group’s activities and operations, to create long-term value in SKF. All aspects of SKF Care are important when dealing with the railway industry. Two stand out in particular. One is the focus on safety, since the industry is not just about transporting goods but also people. The other is the industry being the most eco-friendly form of public transport. As there is a strong demand for reduced energy consumption and related CO2 emissions from railway operators and train manufacturers, we can contribute to this demand with our innovative products including reducing the weight of axleboxes, or with low friction sealings in journal bearings. Rutger Barrdahl, Director, SKF Railway Business Unit We develop knowledge to integrate environmental For our work in research and development, consideration into our work at SKF, such as deve­l­ SKF Care is about creating the knowledge, oping energy management methods, supply chain products and solutions which will differ­ assessment tools and design for environment entiate SKF in the eyes of its current and ­procedures. Over the last four years, most of my future customers in 5, 10 or 20 years from time has been spent investigating the challenge to now. It could mean lower energy use and manage environmental issues in manufacturing. carbon emissions, reduced resource use, We live at a time with alarming environmental or avoiding the use of harmful substances. challenges. The role of large companies to meet Our ability to look ahead and understand these challenges is becoming increasingly important. the future environmental challenges and technology needs, and translate those into Birger Löfgren, Competence Area Leader, research and development, is key. SKF Manufacturing Development Centre Laura Montagna, General Manager of SKF Engineering & Research Centre I have been working at SKF for 25 years in different parts of the Gothenburg factory. One thing the channels have in common is the way the teams look out after each other. Production doesn’t start if we’re not absolutely sure everything is safe. This is the way people come first at SKF, and the production managers take it very seriously. No one takes these issues lightly, escalations are always considered important. In turn, this leads to operators, technicians and others finding even more safety improvements. Our way of working with Business Excellence is really the tool for achieving these improvements. Juan Mera, Production Technician 12 Administration Report • This is SKF Care to us Considering SKF’s rapid growth in China, with new factories, facilities and employees being added all the time, we face a ­c hallenge to ensure that our people have the right level of ­environmental, health and safety understanding and expertise. The company has developed a specific EHS training programme as part of SKF’s sustainability academy and this will help us a lot in addressing this challenge. Yunfeng Li, Sustainability Manager, SKF China At an SKF Solution Factory, our customers can really see and understand how we create value by helping them reduce environmental impact. We help our customers to save money and energy and provide a range of services that deliver asset efficiency optimization. With asset efficiency comes resource efficiency, energy efficiency and therefore reduced environmental impact. Heike Sengstschmid Director, SKF Solution Factories The adoption of the LEED standard by the Group was very much aligned with the principles of SKF Care. This has made a big difference to all aspects of my work, from site selection and managing the actual construction, to selecting the ­technologies and machines to be deployed. In the end we have facilities that have lower running costs, better ­places to work at and which we can feel proud of. Åke Larsson Senior Project Manager – new construction projects We have consistently delivered strong financial results in this market, even during the difficult times of the last recession, and I would say that Employee Care has been key in doing this. When times were tough, we focused on core activities and made the needed efficiency savings, but we avoided significant redundancies. We focus strongly on individual development and the evolution of skills, steadily bringing people up in the organization based on their passion and potential. We really support people in the team wishing to engage in Community Care activities. This type of investment brings perspective and promotes teamwork. We have also been working with local schools to encourage kids to think about engineering as a future career. Michael Crean, Director, Service Division UK and Ireland. Administration Report • This is SKF Care to us 13 Highlights of 2011 Q1 Q2 • SKF and Chalmers University of Technology agreed to establish a University Technology Centre to conduct research and development covering technology, manufacturing, business processes and ­business strategy in the areas of sustainability and the environment. • AB SKF issued a EUR 500 million eurobond with a maturity of seven years. • SKF Logistics Services was awarded “Best service provider” by the Belgian Shippers’ Council Organization of Traffic Management. • SKF and Bombardier Aerospace signed a long-term contract for SKF to supply over 40 different rod assemblies and titanium bearings for Bombardier’s new C series aircraft. • SKF signed a contract worth EUR 15 million with MAN Diesel Turbo for magnetic bearings and related electronic components to be used Gothia Cup 2011 in Gothenburg, Sweden. in two subsea sets of natural gas compressors. • SKF launched a new series of virtually maintenance-free bearings with an extended service life in extreme temperatures. See page 20. • SKF was awarded a contract worth around SEK 500 million with • SKF issued, and celebrated, its 100,000th certificate in the SKF Goldwind, one of the leading turbine manufacturers in China. Distributor College. By the end of the quarter the number of • SKF signed a three-year strategic partnership agreement worth ­certificates issued was over 112,700. SEK 335 million with Sandvik Mining and Construction. • A strategic partnership agreement was signed between SKF and • SKF and Konkola Copper Mines Plc in Zambia signed a three-year Maanshan Iron & Steel (MaSteel) in Nanjing, China. It will focus on contract worth USD 2 million covering a predictive maintenance service relationships, sustainability and improvements that reduce solution. the total cost of ownership. • SKF signed a strategic partnership agreement with CITIC Pacific • SKF’s Asset Management conferences are held regionally every Special Steel Co., Ltd, which includes cooperating in purchasing, other year and the most recent was arranged this quarter in new product and technology development and developing human ­Buenos Aires, Argentina with over 175 customers attending. resources. The focus was on providing practical solutions to the complex • SKF announced a new factory in Jinan, in the Shandong Province, ­problems customers experience at their factories. China for tapered roller bearings for the truck industry. • SKF gained new business in Columbia for the remanufacturing of • SKF signed an agreement to remain as the main partner of the large-size bearings. The establishment of the SKF Solution Factory Gothia Cup, the world’s largest youth football tournament, for an in Colombia at the end of 2010, means that SKF now offers this additional three years. SKF will also continue to run the “Meet the service on site to customers in the country. World” qualifying tournaments held in around 20 countries globally. • SKF entered a project with the Volvo Car Corporation and Volvo • SKF divested non-core component manufacturing: the forging Group aimed at evaluating industrialization of flywheel systems business OMVP in Villar Perosa, Italy and the cage factory in for energy recycling. Gothenburg. • SKF expanded the range of the SKF Hub Knuckle Module, adding the central nut clamping design on the wheel connection side. The Ferrari 458 Italia sports car is equipped with this new single nut hub bearing unit from SKF. The solution has proved to be durable against extreme forces in cornering and high side forces. • Five new products were launched, including the SKF Low Weight Hub Bearing Unit and SKF Double Clutch Bearing Set, see page 22. 14 Administration Report • Highlights of 2011 Q3 Q4 • SKF announced a long-term contract with China National Heavy Duty Truck Group Co., Ltd, (CNHTC), one of China’s top three truck manufacturers. The contract, with an estimated value of around SEK 5.2 billion, calls for SKF to supply SKF Truck Hub Units, tapered roller bearings, and seals for CNHTC’s latest truck models. • SKF opened an extension to the automotive factory in Cajamar, Brazil, which will manufacture the second generation hub bearing unit with integrated ABS. • SKF inaugurated its Global Technical Centre in Bengaluru, India (GTCI). GTCI will have a strong focus on serving customers in India and SouthEast Asia, as well as global projects. SKF invested around SEK 75 million in GTCI. It will employ about 400 engineers in the areas of product engineering and development, as well as laboratories for Inauguration of the new factory in Dalian, China. testing metallurgy, chemistry and bearing performance analysis. • SKF signed a five-year contract to establish an SKF University ­Technology Centre with Luleå University of Technology in Luleå, • SKF opened a regional distribution centre in Montevideo, Sweden, focused on developing advanced concepts in condition Uruguay, to strengthen service to customers and distributors monitoring and asset management. in Latin America. • SKF launched the 2012 Meet the World youth football tournament, • SKF inaugurated a medium-sized bearing factory in Dalian, China. which are held in 15-20 countries where SKF has a presence. The • A number of products were launched during the quarter, see winning teams from each country will travel to Gothenburg, Sweden pages 20-23. to participate in the Gothia Cup, the world’s largest and most inter• SKF was named the leading global supplier in asset reliability national youth football tournament. software and services according to the ARC Advisory Group. • SKF secured an order worth SEK 20 million for bearings to the • The 120,000th SKF Distributor College certificate was issued China Railway Materials Commercial Corporation for installation in in September. 160 km/h passenger coaches for use throughout China. • SKF’s Service Division held three major conferences for its • SKF introduced its Asset Efficiency Optimization programme at the ­distributors in the quarter, with the key message of how to Lithuanian paper company Grigiðkës. The implementation of the grow together on the aftermarket. programme will support this company to increase its output by 10%, • For the 12th successive year, SKF was selected to be a member of by employing condition monitoring and looking after the machines Dow Jones’ Sustainability World index and the FTSE4 Good Index more effectively. Series for the 11th year in succession. • In 2011, SKF provided SEK 3.0 billion in verified savings for customers. By using the SKF Documented Solutions Program to measure and confirm value delivered, SKF can identify where opportunities exist for customer savings. • SKF held an Asset Management conference in Phoenix, USA, in November with more than 185 customers sharing experience and industry knowledge, as well as the latest technology news. • SKF supplied advanced technological products and solutions to the Bolloré Group for use in their innovative electric cars. These cars will be used in the car sharing program, Autolib, to be launched in Paris. • SKF Automotive Division launched a number of products during the quarter, see pages 22-23. • SKF was once again included in the Folksam Corporate Responsibility Index and ranked the best in the overall score of environment management. Administration Report • Highlights of 2011 15 Report on the business Business Care Business Care is built on a strong customer focus and on delivering a strong and sustainable financial performance and the right returns for shareholders. This should be achieved in accordance with the highest standards of ethical behaviour. The Group’s sales reached record levels in 2011. The first half around SEK 100 million (190). Net financial items were SEK -680 saw broad-based growth both geographically and across nearly all million (-903). Interest-bearing loans totalled SEK 12,851 million at industries, while growth in the second half was not as strong, mainly year-end. Provisions for post-employment benefits, net, amounted due to the automotive industry in Europe and demand from the to SEK 8,599 million. renewable energy sector and the railway industry in China. The cash flow after investments before financing was SEK 3,848 Net sales rose by 8.5% in 2011, from SEK 61,029 million to million (-2,838) and included SEK 6 million (6,799) for acquisitions. SEK 66,216 million. This rise was attributable to volume 9.6%, Return on capital employed for the 12-month period ending price/mix 1.9%, structure 4.8% and currency effects -7.8%. 31 December was 23.6% (24.0). The acquisition of Lincoln* at the year-end 2010 contributed a Capital expenditure on property, plant and equipment amounted structural effect of 5.1%. The stronger Swedish krona had a negative to SEK 1,839 million (1,651). effect on net sales of around SEK 4.8 billion. Depreciation was SEK 1,498 million (1,644), amortization was The operating profit was SEK 9,612 million (8,452), profit before SEK 248 million (150) and impairments of intangible and tangible taxes SEK 8,932 million (7,549) and earnings per share SEK 13.29 assets was SEK 44 (198) million. (11.28). The figures include expenses for restructuring activities of * Lincoln Holdings Enterprises Inc. and its subsidiaries, referred to herein collectively as ”Lincoln”. SEKm 1.9% 4.8% 70,000 9.6% -7.8% 66,216 Net sales 2010 bridge to 2011 61,029 Sales volume: The sales figure without any affect from changes in price/mix, 60,000 structure or currency. Structure: The impact from acquiring or divesting a company or business. Price/mix: The average price which the Group gets from the sale of its products. It is affected by price increases and the mix of sales of different products and services to different customer segments. For example, if a product or a customer with a higher margin has a larger proportion of the total sales 50,000 figure the price/mix increases. Currency: The translation of local sales figures into Swedish krona. Ne y ts 20 les 10a en ts a St Vo ru lu m e rr c 20 les 11 ct ur e Pr ice /m ix Cu Ne 16 Administration Report • Business Care Main factors influencing the financial results in 2011 Market demand SKF benefited from being able to rapidly respond to the better market demand. Volumes rose by 9.6%. Price/mix SKF delivered more value to customers and is receiving the benefits from this. The combination of price increases and mix of sales taken together was up by 1.9%. Exchange rates Exchange rates had a negative effect on SKF’s operating profit of around SEK 1.2 billion, including the effect of translation and transaction flows. R&D Increased spending to strengthen the overall product portfolio, in particularly energy-efficient products and solutions. Raw material prices Prices of steel and steel-based components were significantly higher in 2011 than 2010. One-off cost Various restructuring activities and impairment of asset had a negative impact on the year of around SEK 100 million. Manufacturing While manufacturing during 2011 was higher than in 2010, as the year progressed the manufacturing level was adjusted down to reduce inventories and meet lower demand level, this held back results mainly in the fourth quarter. SKF has gradually evolved into a more robust company over the past leader. From a geographical viewpoint, sales in Asia have doubled decade, showing an improved ability to generate profits and sales as a part of the SKF Group sales in the last eight years. SKF’s sales growth. The company’s margin have continually improved over the to the industrial market have increased in the same period from years and the return on capital employed has shown a good track under 60% of the Group’s sales to over 70%. record, despite the fact that it includes important investments SKF’s strength comes from its customer focus and ability to ­necessary for sales growth. ­continuously innovate to develop new products, solutions and services SKF has made important changes to its capital intensity over the which meet the different customers’ needs in the many different years by divesting and outsourcing steel and component manufacturing. industries which SKF serves. Important divestments were made covering the steel manufacturing It is about creating and delivering products, solutions and services operations in 2006 and various component manufacturing activities which bring real benefits and value to the customers and being paid for such as balls and rollers, cages and forged and turned rings. this. To support this, the Group has increased its frontline resources Significant steps have also been taken to improve sales growth working with customers and during 2011 an additional six hundred through increasing focus on faster growing segments and regions and people were added. The Group has also increased its spend on the addition of additional technologies such as lubrication systems. research and development and in new facilities bringing this closer A number of key acquisitions have been made in all the five technology to its customers in India and China. platforms of the Group enabling it to be a better partner to its customers. Investments have been made in manufacturing in faster growing For example, SKF was not a major player in the automated lubrication and best cost countries to support the growth and to improve the systems business less than ten years ago and today is now a market Group’s competitiveness. Operating profit, SEKm Operating margin, % Return on capital employed, % Operating profit Operating margin Return on capital employed 9,612 14.5 24.9 24.0 24.0 23.6 10,000 15 13.8 25 23.0 8,452 12.6 12.9 21.9 12.2 7,539 7,710 10.8 6,707 8,000 12 20 6,000 5,327 9 15 3,203 5.7 9.1 4,000 6 10 2,000 3 5 0 0 0 05 06 07 08 09 10 11 05 06 07 08 09 10 11 05 06 07 08 09 10 11 Administration Report • Business Care 17 45x33 mm 45x33 mm 45x33 mm Delivering value to customers SKF’s success lies in effectively developing and delivering value to service. A gearbox can be repaired on the turbine for less than 10% of its customers and receiving the benefits from this. Value can mean a complete gearbox change, which may be needed if it is not repaired providing special technical solutions. For example, the SKF X-Tracker, in time. a patented wheel hub unit for cars available in two versions. The From 2003 until today, SKF has provided around SEK 19 billion in first offers up to 20% more rigidity than standard hub units, thereby verified savings for customers. In 2011, the figure was around SEK 3 ­enabling a safer, smoother ride for premium cars. SKF X-Tracker Low billion. By using the SKF Documented Solutions Program to measure Friction enables customers to achieve lower CO2 emissions, helping and confirm value delivered, SKF can find where the greatest opporvehicle manufacturers to meet environmental legislation. It provides tunities exist for customer savings. SKF has over 24,500 accepted or 25% less friction than a comparable wheel end product and corresponds verified cases that show proven quantifiable value in over 25 industrial directly to the amount of reduced levels of CO2 emissions achieved. segments. The following is an example of how it works: Another example is the SKF eDrive Ball Bearing and SKF Rotor A large industrial company wanted to find a way to reduce its main­Positioning Sensor-Bearing Unit, used in a vehicle’s powertrain, tenance, repair and operation (MRO) spending. SKF proposed finding which helps enable new, more efficient and eco-friendly ways of cost savings by applying the know-how from SKF’s five technology powering a vehicle. For a typical electric vehicle application, an platforms. The customer agreed and the outcome was measured ­improvement of 1% of the car’s range can be expected using a set using the SKF Documented Solutions Program. Some of the results of optimized SKF bearing, sealing and mechatronic solutions in the achieved included reducing inventory, reducing energy and lubrication e-powertrain. use, extending the life of numerous classes of machines, implement­ Value also comes from the way SKF uses its understanding of ing a predictive maintenance programme that allowed operators to customer requirements to offer specific solutions to support these find problems before they materialized. The customer gained around needs an example is the SKF Agri solution. A leading global agricul5% measurable cost savings annually and SKF has been able to tural equipment manufacturer experienced persistent bearing fail­ expand its share of their business with products and solutions from ures in its axial combines. To tackle the dilemma, engineers from the its five technology platforms. For SKF this business contributed to manufacturer conducted extensive field tests using SKF’s agricultural greater net sales and higher margins. Once the implementation was Y-bearing units. The bearings were exposed to 500 hours of field finalized in one market SKF was able to help the customer replicate op­eration, running under varying load, speed, temperature and environ­ this at its facilities globally, creating more savings for the customer mental conditions, and the solution delivered a faultless result. The by using SKF’s global reach. agricultural Y-bearing units also give cost-saving opportunities for the farmer. The increased service life and relubrication-free design enable Business Excellence farmers to reduce time and money spent on repairs and lubrication. SKF will further strengthen its ability to deliver value to customers Delivering value can also be achieved by offering customers the with the help of the Business Excellence initiative, which was launched lowest total cost of ownership by eliminating wasted costs at custom­ in late 2010. Business Excellence is about delivering value to customers ers’ operations and through understanding the difference between in the most effective and efficient way, by fully utilizing employees’ lowest price products and lowest total cost of ownership. For example, and partners’ expertise and the company’s technology. SKF Business operation and maintenance costs have a significant influence on the Excellence actively motivates the organization to consider whether profitability of onand offshore wind farms through their life cycle. it is achieving the right results in the best way possible. Business The condition monitoring system, SKF WindCon, gives on-line supports Excellence starts by focusing on customers and understanding where to customers in analyzing the performance of their wind farm. One they are, where they want to go and how SKF can help them get there benefit can be preventing changing gearboxes via a remote monitoring in the best way possible. For SKF this means using the Business SKF Business Excellence, SKF Quality and SKF Six Sigma work together to help SKF move towards excellence. *Including Quality Management System and Environmental, Health & Safety System 18 Administration Report • Business Care Excellence model (see figure below) and applying the model in the way from SKF’s Six Sigma projects produced a figure of SEK 392 million work gives the desired results, which can be measured, followed up for 2011 (SEK 467 million) and continuously improved. It is about eliminating activities and materials that add no value BeyondZero strategy to our customers. SKF’s approach to Business Excellence requires a BeyondZero is the name of the Group’s strategy to have a positive significant shift from traditional leadership skills to more effectively impact on the environment. It was launched in 2005 and consists of utilizing the knowledge and commitment within the organization. two simultaneous approaches: to reduce the negative environmental Leaders must balance their traditional leadership and management impact resulting from SKF’s operations, and to innovate and offer new roles with active coaching of their teams. SKF is now investing in technologies, products, and services that provide customers with strengthening this mindset. The company has therefore embarked on enhanced environmental performance. The result of the two should an extensive training program for Business Excellence and amongst give an overall positive impact on the environment BeyondZero. the first to be trained in 2011 were SKF’s 180 top managers. This will The first element of BeyondZero about reducing the environmental continue with the training of additional managers in 2012. In 2011 impact from SKF’s operations, such as carbon emissions derived from SKF also trained around 100 Business Excellence Champions at manufacturing SKF’s products, has been driven in many ways. An “Business Excellence boot-camps”. These boot-camps give the partici­ example is the adoption of the LEED building standard assuring pants the necessary skills for deploying Business Excellence at SKF, world-class environmental performance for all newly-built facilities using the best methodologies and tools. These methodologies and around the world. Information about how SKF works to reduce all this tools are mainly derived from SKF Six Sigma, Quality and Project negative environmental impact can be found in the Environmental Management communities. The Business Excellence Champions are Care section in this report. trained for facilitating the Business Excellence journey by conducting The second element of BeyondZero recognizes that customers in local training and supporting local management in their efforts of all segments and industries face multiple (and increasing) pressure the deployment. to deliver a reduced environmental impact from products, services and processes. The broad industrial and geographical scope of SKF, SKF Six Sigma together with the Group’s engineering knowledge, puts the company SKF continued its Six Sigma activities during 2011 on reducing costs in an exceptionally strong position to add value by helping customers and deviations, as well as its support to Business Excellence. The to address these demands. number of Six Sigma Black and Green belts rose during 2011, which means by year-end, SKF had 484 (463) black belts and 2,154 (2,059) The Parent Company green belts. SKF Six Sigma will continue its deployment in the product The Parent company performs services of a common Group character. and process development areas linking the customer’s voice into this Reported net sales refer to services invoiced to subsidiaries. Costs process. As part of SKF’s plans to continue to increase the level of invoiced from subsidiaries are included in the reported cost of services achieved savings utilizing SKF Six Sigma, SKF will focus on two areas provided and amounted to SEK 1,528 million (1,288). Dividend income in 2012. They are: increasing the number of Six Sigma projects that from consolidated subsidiaries amounted to SEK 2,389 million (1,945). will be generated through the deployment of Business Excellence and Additions to investments in subsidiaries amounted to SEK 535 million jology. To further strengthen and support the step in SKF’s Six Sigma (5,089) of which SEK 1 million (2) is related to acquisitions from comdeployment journey, an SKF Six Sigma Academy will be established in panies within the SKF Group and SEK 534 million (5,087) to capital 2012. The creation of a Six Sigma Academy will help develop and run contributions to existing units. Unrestricted equity in the Parent comhigher levels of content for product and process development, as well pany amounted to SEK 9,724 million. as for sales, application engineering and manufacturing. Savings Reducing environmental impact by remanufacturing SKF has established a global network of facilities specializing in inspecting and remanufacturing used bearings. SKF’s bearing remanufacturing concept creates customer value by increasing machines’ service life and reliability and reducing costs. From an environmental perspective, reducing material and energy requirements that bearing remanufacturing generates, compared to replacing bearings with completely new ones, means a lower overall environmental impact. With large size bearings remanufacturing actually requires about 90% less energy than manufacturing a new bearing and saves around 50% of the cost. In addition to large size bearings, SKF remanufactures other products including machine spindles, housings and railway bearing units. The SKF’s remanufacturing network is present in most parts of the world and is continually expanding with new remanufacturing service centres. Administration Report • Business Care 19 New market offers 2011 SKF’s separable highSKF Energy Efficient (E2) SKF food line Y-bearing The SKF Fryer Bearing capacity cylindrical roller double row angular contact units are a relubrication improve reliability of auto­ bearings for wind turbine ball bearings run up to 30 °C free solution, which provide mat­ic fryers in the food indus­ gearboxes, reduce bearing cooler than standard bearings, extended service life despite try. An innovative design en­­ failures and the risk of smearwhich increases grease life high-pressure washdowns ables process oil to lubricate ing and adhesive wear on and potentially bearing service on food and beverage pro­ the bearings, while at the high-speed shafts. The design, life. This is achieved by an duction lines. same time it prevents ingress with black-oxidized rollers or optimized internal geometry of process contaminants. The complete oxidized bearings, and new, low-friction grease bear­ing’s service life can be improves sliding resistance that reduces the bearing’s ex­tend­ed up to 16,000 hours. and promotes lubricant film frictional moment by a min­ formation on all contact imum of 30%, when compared surfaces. to an SKF basic design bearing. SKF DryLube bearings SKF Wind Gearbox Bearing kit SKF Shaft Alignment System SKF @ptitude Monitoring contain a specially engineered includes replacement com­ is designed to manage alignSuite is a scalable software graphite mixture, which elim­ ponents for specific applicament for any rotating machinsolution that accommodates inates the need for grease tions, which simplify the ery. The system integrates a all features of current and re-lubrication. This new solupro­c ess of identifying and pre-defined alignment pro­ future condition monitoring tion is appropriate for numerordering components for cess into a portable instrusystems from SKF. The appli­ ous applications where bearwind farm operators. These ment. It provides users with cation maintains a plant-wide ings are exposed to constantly custom­ized kits can help step-by-step instructions on database of machinery data high temperatures and where ensure quick access to pro­ how to carry out alignment in based on parameters includthe grease deteriorates quickly. ducts, reduce downtime the most effective and effiing vibration, temperatures, This product received the and inventory costs. cient sequence. This can help pressures, flows, inspections, IMPOvation award 2011. operators extend operating manual entry and oil analysis life and reduce energy test results. It can provide consumption. customized reports diagnostic, inspection and transient event plots. q w e a d < z x With supporting applications and add-ons, customers can add or remove functionality as their system expands, or is optimized to meet condition-monitoring needs. 20 Administration Report • New market offers 2011 An upgraded range of SKF SKF Endoscope TKES 10 SKF Idler Sound Monitor kit SKF Agri Hub for seeding Explorer spherical roller helps minimize the requireuses acoustic enveloping discs, a fully integrated unit bearings offers at least ment to disassemble machintechnology to detect mechan­ for a wide range of seeding twice the previous life when ery for inspection. A large ical defects in idlers on condiscs and machines. It feaoperating in a contaminated backlit screen and variable veyer systems. The SKF Idler tures a robust, patented fiveenviron­ment. LED lighting allows inaccess­ Sound Monitor has a simple, lip seal and can deliver a reThe improved wear and ible objects to be easily viewed. visual display and headphones lubrication-free performance contamination resistance is Images and videos can be with audible condition alarm for up to 10 seeding seasons. primarily used in applications stored and recalled for viewing for detecting faults. It is also A double-row deep groove ball for areas such as the metals, and sharing with others. compatible with all SKF bearing with a metal-sheet mining, mineral and cement Microlog models. flange provides additional processing industries, indusstrength. trial transmission and ma­terial handling. SKF Lubrication ManageSKF solar linear actuators SKF Stroboscope TKRS 20 SKF Thermal Camera ment programme can be have been designed to accur­ enables the motion of rotating TKTI 20 allows troublesome defined as the sum of all the ately track the sun from or reciprocating machinery to hotspots to be visualized activities performed in a given ­sunrise to sunset. They are appear frozen. Applications quickly and easily. The TKTI facility, to ensure the right virtually maintenance-free such as fan blades, couplings, 20 is a feature-rich thermal lubricant is provided in the and designed for a 20-year gear wheels, machine tool camera, which offers extenright quantity, to the right service life. spindles and belt drives can sive advanced thermal ana­ point, at the right time with be visually inspected while lysis possibilities. Thermal the right method. The prorunning. The powerful LED and visual images, or a blend gramme defines a structured light source allows inspection of both, are displayed sharply process to help our customers even in sunlight, and the very on a large, bright display. build a strong lubrication prohigh flash rate suits almost Images stored in the camera’s gramme. The process comany application. memory can be transferred prises five major steps. to a PC, for further analysis or report writing, using the software suite provided. SKF Lubrication Management process Optimization Administration Report • New market offers 2011 21 SKF Multilog On-line System SKF Remote Diagnostic SKF Energy Efficient (E2) SKF Energy Efficient (E2) IMx-R delivers condition Centre utilizes “cloud comp­u­t­ Y-bearings with reduced tapered roller bearing for moni­­toring and diagnostics ing” for its IT infrastructure friction, are ready-to-use truck final drive is a solution which helps move railway which offers a way to access, bearings equipped with a high that provides 30% reduced maintenance from time-based store, and manage any range performance contacting seal internal bearing friction, to condition-based mainten­ of information, software proand filled with the correct leading to fuel savings and ance and reduce maintenance grams or databases. A range amount of low friction grease. CO2 emission reductions. cost. Along with early fault of different remote monitoring These new Y-bearings give a detection of different composolutions are available to meet 50% reduction in the bearing nents, the SKF Multilog IMx-R customer needs. frictional torque compared to offers protection against bogie conventional SKF Y-bearings. instability with bogie hunting A range of reinforced allThey are mainly used in in­dus­ criteria, plus protection against rubber radial shaft seals, t­rial fans, textile equipment hot axlebox. made of SKF Duratemp (a hydro­ and conveyors. genated nitrile rubber) are specially developed to protect bearings in wind turbine drive trains. These high-performance seals are very reliable and are easy to install and replace. Baker Dx series of SKF’s SKF Microlog Inspector SKF Low Weight Hub SKF’s competitive and static motor analyzers are system enables collection Bearing Unit, with a weight ­cus­tom­ized product range designed for use in motor and sharing of inspection data, reduction of around 20% to of double clutch bearing sets test/maintenance shops, such as velocity, acceleration 40% depending on the specific and clutch support angular industrial and OEM motor and temperature. It is ideal for design, contributes to lower contact ball bearings for manufacturing environments. operations, inspection, safety fuel consumption and reduced double clutch transmissions It can perform motor tests and maintenance applications, CO2 emissions. Main applicaenables greater energy between 4 and 40 kV and can helping to in­c rease product­ tion areas are premium cars, efficiency while reducing CO2 be configured with the specific ivity, safety and efficiency. light commercial vehicles and emissions. test functions customers wish It is compatible with most electric vehicles. to have. It has a touch screen Windows Mobile portable with graphical user interface devices and links to the SKF that makes it easier to use. @ptitude Inspector software package, where data can be further analyzed, reported and shared across the entire SKF @ptitude Asset Management System. 22 Administration Report • New market offers 2011 SKF’s robust MacPherson SKF Split Truck Hub Unit SKF StopGo is a stop-start SKF Engine Fan Support Unit suspension bearing unit for is a wheel-end solution with system with a sensor-bearing is part of the engine cooling the vehicle market will witha split outer ring. The seals solution, enabling increased system and is designed for use stand severe conditions and and grease are integrated and mileage with reduced fuel in commercial engines. extend the operating life of sealed for life and the unit is ­con­­sumption and CO2 emissions. the suspension. easy to mount. It is designed for motorcycles and scooters with combustion engines. Two products for electric SKF’s high pressure valve SKF’s high performance fork SKF Vehicle Environmental traction motors in electric stem seals increase pressure seal solution for motorcycles, Performance Simulator and hybrid cars: resistance, thus minimizing improves feel and comfort, calculates and translates the SKF eDrive Ball Bearing wear and extending the life of while increasing reliability contribution of reduced is a new bearing family for the the valve train. through better dirt exclusion. bearing and seal friction and electric powertrain market. component weight into The bearing features low savings of CO2 emissions friction and robustness at high for a vehicle. speed, which enables higher electric motor efficiency and power density. SKF Rotor Positioning Sensor-Bearing Unit inte­­ grates the SKF eDrive Ball Bearing. This compact and robust solution improves electric motor efficiency, energy recovery, electric noise and allows total cost reduction. Administration Report • New market offers 2011 23 SKF’s business SKF’s business in 2011 SKF’s business is primarily carried out by three divisions. The IndusThe main reason for this change is to create an organization which trial Division, the Service Division and the Automotive Division, each will be able to better serve the need of customers within the industrial focusing on specific worldwide customer groups. The divisions are market. Industrial Market, Strategic Industries and the Industrial inter-dependent providing each other with products, services and Market, Regional Sales and Service will both focus on managing the know-how. total life cycle of the customers’ assets and will deliver a full range of The Industrial Division serves industrial OEM customers and the products, services and solutions to both OEMs and end-users within Service Division mainly serves industrial distributors and industrial different industries. SKF Automotive Division is renamed to SKF Autoend-users. Together they make up two-thirds of SKF’s sales. The motive. Divisions together serve the industrial market but at different phases SKF Industrial Market, Strategic Industries consists of seven busiin a customer’s asset life cycle. ness units with full responsibility for sales to both OEM and endThe Automotive Division serves both OEM customers and the users, as well as business development, manufacturing, and engiaftermarket. neering. The business units are: Aerospace, Renewable Energy, Outside the divisions SKF has two other operations – PEER and Industrial Drives (comprising the Industrial Electrical, Fluid, TransSKF Logistics Services. mission and Material Handling segments), Off-highway, Traditional Energy, Precision (comprising the Machine Tool, Medical & AutomaNew business structure in 2012 tion segments), and Railways. In addition, the SKF Lubrication busiAs of 1 January 2012, SKF formed three new business areas to ness unit is part of this business area. replace the former divisions: SKF Industrial Market, Regional Sales and Service is responsible for sales to both OEM and end-users, as well as business development • SKF Industrial Market, Strategic Industries and engineering for the Metals, Pulp and Paper, Mining and Cement, • SKF Industrial Market, Regional Sales and Service Food and Beverage, and Marine segments. It will also focus on devel• SKF Automotive oping advanced services and solutions that improve customer productivity, as well as on developing the SKF sales channels with priPEER and SKF Logistics Services are not affected by the new mary responsibility for SKF distributors and channel partners. structure. SKF Automotive is supporting the Cars and light trucks, Trucks, Vehicle service market, Two-wheelers and Electrical markets. It is also responsible for SKF Sealing Solutions. Net sales by customer segment 2011 12. Two-wheelers and Electrical 3% 11. Trucks 4% 10. Vehicle service market 10% 1. Industrial distribution 29% 9. Cars and light trucks 12% 8. Off-highway 4% 2. General industry 11% 7. Railway 4% 6. Aerospace 5% 3. Heavy industrial machinery 6% 4. Energy 6% 5. Special industrial machinery 6% 24 Administration Report • SKF’s business Geographic distributions 2011 of net sales, average number of employees and property, plant and equipment (percent) Net sales Average number of employees Property, plant and equipment 40 38 38 29 26 25 19 12 11 8 8 9 6 6 7 5 6 3 3 1 0 North America Latin America Western Europe Sweden Eastern Europe Middle East Asia / Pacific and Africa Customer segments 2011 Industrial distribution Aerospace Vehicle service market Sales through authorized industrial Bearings, structural components Spare-part kits for cars, light trucks and distributors. and seals to the aerospace markets two-wheelers. with producers of both aero engines Trucks General industry and airframes. Medium and heavy trucks above 6 tons, Fluid power, industrial gearboxes Railway buses and trailers. and material handling. Axleboxes and sensorized bearing Heavy industrial machinery solutions for the railway industry, Two-wheelers and electrical Metalworking, mining, pulp & paper. freight cars, locomotives, multiple Motorcycles, scooters and roller skates. units and high-speed ­vehicles. E-powertrains, household appliances, power Energy tools and electric motors. Renewable energy (wind, solar and ocean) Off-highway and traditional energy (oil & gas, hydrocarbon Construction, farm & forestry, lift processing, traditional electric power truck drives. generation). Cars and light trucks Special industrial machinery Hub units for wheel-ends, steering and Food & beverage, machine tools, suspension applications. marine, medical & health care, printing & packaging, and textile. Administration Report • SKF’s business 25 SKF’s customer segments 2011 Customer segments in order by size, divided into Industrial and Automotive. 1. Industrial distribution, 29% of net sales SKF reaches customers in most industries in the global industrial developed by SKF, based on the same methodology as the SKF Docuaftermarket through its authorized distributors, which connect SKF mented Solutions Program (DSP), helping distributors identify and to over one million customers. They represent the largest network of measure the value they deliver to customers. The SKF Certified Mainauthorized distributors in the bearing industry. Over the years the tenance Partners programme helps qualified distributors provide network has also expanded with specialized distributors serving speadded value to customers by offering entry-level maintenance and cific customer needs and industry segments. SKF’s distributors add reliability services. SKF Certified Rebuilders undergo specialized value in the overall supply chain. By their proximity to customers in all training in motor repair with an emphasis on conformance to exact industries, they are well placed to work closely with both OEMs and SKF specifications and standards, root cause failure analysis, bearing end-users. SKF’s distributors are knowledgeable in inventory maninstallation, lubrication and condition monitoring. They are audited agement, helping customers reduce transactional costs and working and re-certified regularly, and repairs are carried out using SKF’s capital, for example by taking care of spare part optimization and products and tools. This is to offer customers a higher quality and making logistics more efficient. Coupled with their product and applistandard of performed work. cation knowledge, this helps customers make the right choice for their In 2011, SKF focused on assuring that authorized distributors business. understand and accept the principles and requirements defined in the SKF works continuously with the authorized network in order to SKF Code of Conduct. Given the crucial role in satisfying customer increase knowledge levels that can benefit the customer. This is done needs, it is essential that SKF’s authorized distributors act in accordthrough activities such as conventions, workshops and online training, ance with these requirements, and the Group actively supports and the latter being for example the SKF Distributor College where users facilitates this. SKF Code of Conduct for distributors was launched in can attend various product and industry training schemes online. 2009, and it covers areas such as responsibility towards customers The “More with SKF” programme was developed to strengthen all and employees, business ethics, the environment, health and safety, stages in the supply and value chains, from SKF and its distributors all and communication. SKF continued to focus on joint customer visits, the way to customers. The SKF Distributor Value Programme is a tool on-site product and service training and launching new offers such as the upgraded SKF Explorer self-aligning roller bearings. Participants at the Distributor Development Conference in Beijing, China, testing SKF Thermal Camera TKTI 20, which has an infrared detector. Thermal imaging is used by many industries as a predictive maintenance technique. 26 Administration Report • SKF’s customer segments 2. General industry, 11% of net sales Fluid power (compressors, pumps and industrial fans) In the fluid power industries, SKF’s knowledge is found in applications A large petrochemical factory in Western Europe switched such as compressors, pumps and industrial fans. to SKF’s special hybrid cryogenic pump bearings to improve The compressor market is seeing technological changes and is pump performance. Reliability was essential to the custurning to magnetic bearings for the centrifugal compressor market, tomer because these pumps were used to pump -100 °C and new rolling bearing and seal technology for the screw compressor liquid ethylene through start-stop cycles around the clock. market. SKF is supporting these technological changes. After nearly two years in service, SKF’s cryogenic pump The pump market is driven primarily by market development in the solution bearings were still performing well, with no signs oil and gas, hydrocarbon processing, mining, and water industries. of damage. The customer achieved an almost 400% return The total cost of ownership associated with energy use and mainten­ on investment for each installation of the SKF cryogenic ance plays an increasing role, because of environmental standards, pump bearing solution after the first year. requirements of high operational efficiency of assets and legislation. SKF released a series of new solutions in 2010 for special pumps such as bearings for deep sub-sea pumps and cryogenic pumps for handling liquified gases. These solutions provide customers with outstanding performance and reliability in extremely demanding and remote environments, as in the case of sub-sea oil reserves and in handling of liquified gases. Industrial gearboxes Material handling (conveyor, cranes in processing industry, Gearboxes in critical positions, especially in heavy industry, must container terminals, elevators and escalators) operate reliably under harsh, demanding conditions. In these applicaMarket development in the conveyor industry is driven to a large tions there is a limited possibility of improving the lubricating and/or extent by increased demand for mining and mineral output to meet contaminated condition without costly investment. SKF launched the Asian infrastructure development and power supply needs. The bulk new SKF Explorer upgrade for self-aligning roller bearings in 2011, conveyor industry uses large amounts of energy to move material in response to market demand for both high performance and robust over many kilometers of conveyor systems. Around 6,000 bearings products. By combining the attributes of the existing SKF Explorer are needed to support one kilometer of conveyor transport and the bearings with the latest improved wear resistance technology, the friction between belt and idler rollers accounts for a large part of the new SKF Explorer upgrade enables customers to increase the service total energy use. SKF energy efficient (E2) deep groove ball bearing life and the power output of their equipment. for idle rollers features higher energy efficiency performance and reduces idle roller friction. A Chinese mining company replaced less efficient solutions with the SKF energy efficient (E2) deep groove ball bearing and it is estimated that with SKF’s solution, the customer can cut up to 4,000 tonnes of CO2 emissions in a typical 6.3 km conveyor installation over a five-year period. Administration Report • SKF’s customer segments 27 3. Heavy industrial machinery, 6% of net sales With increasing urbanization and an expanding middle class in the appliances, cars and tissue products. Heavy industries are all highly growth economies, the outlook for heavy industries is positive. While capital intensive, therefore it is very important that assets are both urbanization drives demand for commodities like steel, cement and productive and reliable. copper, growing wealth increases the desire for things like household SKF supplies China’s biggest steel company, Baosteel, with sealed and relubrication-free roll units, SKF ConRo, for their continuous casters. SKF ConRo improves the reliability of casting lines, cuts grease consumption and can significantly reduce roll line operating costs. Metalworking SKF is a major supplier of bearings, seals and lubrication systems to customers solve structural problems by using field measurements the metalworking industry and has developed its service business from operating machinery as input for numerical simulations. It helps over the last decade to help customers increase productivity and customers reduce their maintenance costs and can reduce vibration reliability. and energy use. SKF DryLube Bearings were launched in 2011. These bearings are designed for extended life in high temperature environments. In addition, they can help cut maintenance costs and reduce environ­ mental impact due to the fact that no relubrication is needed. SKF signed a three-year strategic partnership agreement worth SEK 335 million in 2011, with Sandvik Mining and Mining Construction. SKF will handle their inventories of SKF’s proSKF provides the industry with products and services for predictive ducts, which will enable Sandvik to reduce capital costs and maintenance and reliability, including power transmission products. be more responsive to their customers’ needs. The key area A recently launched predictive maintenance tool is the SKF Idler in the partnership is a new, global logistics model, delivering Sound Monitor. It uses acoustic measurements to allow maintenance reduced stock-keeping, fixed lead times, high availability workers to safely detect faults in conveyor systems early. This helps and an automated electronic order-processing solution. to avoid costly damage and repairs. Another recent innovation is the SKF Engineering Simulation Service, a consultancy service that helps The Argex plant in Antwerp, Belgium has been mining raw clay since 1965. The clay is mixed, prepared, chopped and then baked in a two-part rotary kiln that produces expanded clay granules. The Argex kiln is the largest of its kind in Europe and is supported by eight support roller units, each containing two bearings. Argex was looking for a better, more modern solution and chose SKF. The bearings were supplied with a superior lubrication system that reduces friction and helps to lower costs. SKF was also asked to supply new support rollers equipped with an SKF automatic lubrication system, shafts, housings and base plates. SKF provided a more reliable solution and reduced the unit’s energy consumption by up to 10%. 28 Administration Report • SKF’s customer segments Pulp and paper SKF has a long history of involvement with – and product development for – the pulp and paper industry. Traditionally, a leading supplier of Examples of two contracts signed in 2011 to support cus­ bearings and associated products for both machinery builders and tomers in improving their maintenance programmes. pulp and paper producers, SKF has developed into a major player in One of the customers was Grigiðkës Joint Stock Co. in the service and lubrication system business. Lithuania, where SKF was contracted to carry out a main­ SKF’s experience, knowledge and technologies help customers tenance strategy review, implement an enterprise asset maximize their productivity and reliability. management system and help implement best practices for their predictive maintenance and lubrication programmes. The other contract was with a Brasilian cellulose mill where SKF will implement its Integrated Maintenance Solution programme in order to improve reliability and reduce costs through predictive maintenance and lubrication. 4. Energy, 6% of net sales Renewable energy With the world’s population continually increasing, access to energy is turbines and wave energy converters around the world. With the one of the greatest challenges to be solved and the energy industry is power generating applications being submerged or floating on the often subject to government regulations and incentives. SKF primarily ocean surface, SKF’s solutions are answering the technological chalsupplies solutions and services for wind turbines, related to the main lenges as well as equipment’s reliability and durability requirements. shaft, generator and gearbox applications. Globalization of the wind In the rapidly expanding solar energy industry, SKF’s solutions are energy industry is continuing at a rapid rate, with installations of wind commonly found in applications for solar tracking in photovoltaics, farms accelerating in new emerging markets and off-shore on mature concentrating photovoltaics and concentrating solar power. SKF markets. As wind energy is a relatively new power source, growth in offers integrated solutions for solar tracking where equipment is subthe aftermarket sector is developing, and SKF is strengthening its jected to harsh temperatures, sand and heavy wind conditions. SKF’s position in this important market. SKF was selected as a supplier to solar solutions provide improved reliability, reduced maintenance the new Vestas V-112 wind turbine, the largest turbine from the leadwhile maximizing the solar field up-time. ing manufacturer in the wind energy market. With ocean energy still at an early phase of development, SKF’s product and service knowledge can be found in prototype tidal stream SolFocus is a leading manufacturer of concentrating photovoltaic (CPV) solar energy systems. SolFocus selected SKF’s solar linear actuator for their CPV systems based on its high performance and robust design, critical features when it comes to utility-grade solar systems that will operate in the field for more than 25 years. With a fully integrated motor, gearbox and electronics, SKF’s solar linear actuator is able to operate reliably in harsh outdoor conditions with virtually no need for main­ten­ ance and contributes directly to reduced installation time and cost. Administration Report • SKF’s customer segments 29 Oil & gas SKF supports customers at every stage – from drilling, production demands in the industry, SKF offers a range of solutions and services rigs, sub-sea and floating platforms to refinery and pipeline operato help customers eliminate equipment root cause failure, thereby tors. To meet the rising demand in health, safety and environmental increasing reliability and enhancing operational performance. To ensure future supply from oil and gas reserves, oil companies are finding ways to extend their production. SKF provides product and service solutions to support customers in this work. An ex­ample is the Åsgard gas field sub-sea compressor in the Norwegian Sea, where SKF has been awarded a contract to equip the compression trains with magnetic bearings and a remote control mechanism. The compressor bearings will operate 200-300 meters deep on the sea bed. The solution will give the customer a virtually maintenance-free operation and high reliability under extreme conditions. © Statoil 5. Special industrial machinery, 6% of net sales Food & beverage The food and beverage industry is often one of the largest manufacIn 2011, SKF launched a complete assortment of relubricationturing sectors in an economy. Average consumer spending on food free products – the SKF food line Y-bearing units. The bearing unit and non-alcoholic beverages is 25% of income, which makes the features sealing technology that prevents the ingress of water and industry less cyclical than manufacturing in general. cleaning fluids in the bearing when the production equipment is Key drivers of the industry are higher line-efficiency, energy savcleaned using high-pressure washing. ings, reducing waste, water and lubricant use, as well as operator and food safety. A beverage producer installed the SKF food line Y-bearing unit and achieved annual savings of around EUR 15,000 in labour and grease costs, as no relubrication is needed. SKF’s solution also enhances food safety, as it eliminates the risk of grease leakage. 30 Administration Report • SKF’s customer segments Machine tools Marine Achieving higher productivity and reducing the total cost of ownership SKF’s expertise and knowledge in the marine industry centres on the for end-users, remains a focus in the industry. Machine tool manuindustry’s needs to reduce operating and maintenance costs, reduce facturers are demanding more customized technology solutions for health and safety concerns and increase the availability of equipment. greater speed and precision, as well as intelligent, easier-to-operate SKF offers specialized application engineering services and a range machines. Another trend gaining momentum is the drive to increase of solutions for ship propulsion and transmission. SKF also has a team energy efficiency through friction reduction, applying energy-saving of engineers servicing the complete marine value chain with a wide technology and weight reduction. This is supported by major Eurorange of asset management services and condition monitoring prodpean machine tool manufacturers aiming at setting an industry ucts that have delivered significant savings for customers. standard for environmental performances. Lubrication has a critical role in the shipping industry, especially SKF has enhanced its super-precision bearing range for the indusin improving the performance and service life of the machinery and try. The hybrid super-precision bearings with ceramic balls provide preventing rust and corrosion. SKF’s cylinder lubrication unit, which higher energy efficiency performance through lower friction and less is widely used on large 2-stroke diesel engines, helps to reduce the heat, due to their lower weight. This can mean up to 100% higher consumption of cylinder lubricant by up to 30%. speed and longer bearing and grease life. Another solution that enables higher process availability in production operations is SKF LubriLean minimal quantity lubrication system that eliminates the need for wet machining when performing cutting operations. Depending on machining conditions, this in turn removes the need for coolant recycling and at the same time reduces energy use by up to 92% compared to wet machining. Medical & health care The medical industry evolves around the increase in an ageing popula­­ tion, the growing population in emerging countries and more flexible, automated equipment. SKF offers solutions for imaging systems equipment used in medical applications, where control of movement and lifting are the fundamental functions. SKF supplies telescopic pillars and actuators, for lifting and positioning operation tables and platforms that support patients. These products comply with strict safety standards and medical norms. Other offers are bearings for rotation or measuring movements; rail guide equipment for linear motion; and ball screws, commonly used in driving applications. SKF works closely with OEM customers to continuously improve equipment design for better patient comfort and more confident diagnosis. An example is SKF’s application in Siemens Healthcare medical technology with a mobile actuation solution, a patient shuttle system, which is used in state-of-the-art equipment for treating cancer with particle therapy technology. Administration Report • SKF’s customer segments 31 In 2011, SKF secured good positioning with strategic players such as Airbus and AgustaWestland and increased its business in China by 20% compared to 2010. SKF delivered the first prototypes of aeroengine, airframe and elastomeric bearings, rods, brackets and seals for the new AgustaWestland 4.5 ton AW169 helicopter. 6. Aerospace, 5% of net sales The aerospace market has almost doubled every decade over the space industry, including manufacturers of engines, gearboxes and last 40 years. The demand for aircraft and helicopters is expected other modules for fixed wing aircraft and helicopters, as well as to be supported by ageing fleets, technology changes/upgrades and providing services to maintenance, repair and overhaul suppliers enhanced mission capability requirements. SKF services the aeroand airlines. 7. Railway, 4% of net sales SKF’s railway business is today expanding its portfolio further to way bearings offers customers a more economical solution with include other SKF technology platforms. Typical mechatronic solushorter lead times, compared to replenishing with new bearings, tions in railways are sensors to detect operational parameters and and it reduces the overall environmental impact. condition monitoring to increase reliability through condition-based maintenance instead of mileageor time-based maintenance schemes, which are the current standard in the railway industry. In return this means lower maintenance costs for train operators withOne of many new contracts for SKF is the order from China out safety being compromised. An example is the Metro in Barcelona, Railway Materials Commerce Corporation for bearings for Spain, that started to use the solution in 2011. 160 km/h passenger coaches to be used throughout China. SKF expanded its global network of railway remanufacturing units in 2011, by adding a facility in Pinerolo, Italy. Remanufacturing rail8. Off-highway, 4% of net sales Market demand for bio-fuel and greater food supply drive the need for unit. It is a versatile bearing that can withstand the tough environenhanced farm productivity. Infrastructure construction is continually ment harvesters, balers and combines are exposed to. expanding, driving demand for earth moving and other construction To solve a problem with persistent bearing failures in its axial comequipment. bines, a manufacturer carried out an extensive 500-hour field test of To improve ergonomics and mitigate the risk of hydraulic fluid leakthese Y-bearing units. The results were successful and the hours age, manufacturers of construction, agriculture and forestry equipequate to some four years in operation, compared to the conventional ment are moving towards electromechanical actuation for applicabearing’s life of one to three years. The increased service life and tions previously controlled hydraulically or manually. Legislation relubrication-free design of SKF’s agricultural Y-bearing units enable concerning fuel consumption is driving a transition to electric, hybrid farmers to reduce time and money spent on repairs and relubrication, and more effective traditional drive trains for equipment. and the manufacturer to solve costly warranty issues. One example of a solution that delivers significant service life improvement to agriculture machinery is SKF’s agricultural Y-bearing 32 Administration Report • SKF’s customer segments SKF’s cooperation with Scuderia Ferrari Formula One team spans some 60 years – the longest partnership in the history of Formula One – and the agreement was renewed in 2011. It comprises supplying advanced bearing and sealing solutions, and engineering ­services. 9. Cars and light trucks, 12% of net sales The passenger car market increased slightly worldwide during 2011, to own cars. In Germany, SKF strengthened its deliveries to the preby nearly 3.0% compared with last year, and around 76.5 million mium car segment by supplying advanced wheel hub bearing units to vehicles were manufactured. The vast majority of cars delivered BMW for their 5, 6 and 7 series and Mercedes-Benz for their Aand during the year used conventional internal combustion engine (ICE) B-class models. technology. Many new solutions were developed for these types of In 2011, SKF joined a consortium of companies, including Volvo cars during the year, including the SKF’s double clutch bearing set Cars, Volvo Powertrain, Torotrak and Flybrid Systems, and started a and clutch support angular contact ball bearing. Double clutch transproject with the purpose of developing the next-generation flywheel missions reduce CO2 emissions and provide a smoother gearshift that technology for KERS (Kinetic Energy Recovery System) applications. translates to a more comfortable ride for car passengers. SKF worked with translating the specifications of the system into an OEMs increased their efforts to develop and market hybrid and industrialized cost-effective design, evaluating high volume manufacelectric cars to consumers in 2011. To respond to this growth, SKF turing. has developed new solutions in the powertrain area, including the SKF has received a significant order in the USA, for wheel hub bearSKF eDrive ball bearing and an upgrade of the SKF Rotor Positioning ings for Ford US’s best-selling model, the F150 pick-up. SKF will supSensor-Bearing Unit. These new products increase the reliability ply wheel hub bearing solutions with an advanced 4x4 integration and mileage of hybrid and electric vehicles’ motor. system and high performance seals. SKF supplied the front suspenSKF’s business in fast growing markets continued to expand in sion bearings for the Chevrolet Volt – an electric car with an extended 2011. In China, the number of new orders grew significantly. New range. In March 2011, SKF received the “2010 Supplier of the Year” contracts were awarded by local OEMs such as Beijing Automotive award from General Motors, based on supplying bonded piston and and Shanghai Automotive for wheel end and suspension applications. engine seals. SKF has been supplying bonded piston seals to GM Korea New orders for bonded piston seals were received from Geely Autoand GM China since 2009. motive. Mazda Japan ordered bonded piston seals for the SkyActiveThe 2011 NASCAR season has marked SKF’s 14th year in this drive six speed automatic transmission. sport as a sponsor and technical partner. Starting in 2012, a new In Europe, SKF supplied the Bolloré Group in France with several partnership with the Penske Racing team will allow SKF to test prodsolutions including sensor-bearings and deep groove ball bearings, ucts under the harshest conditions in the NASCAR and IndyCar series. using ceramic balls, for their electric vehicles. These vehicles will be used in a new car sharing scheme called Autolib in the Paris area. The project is expected to reduce CO2 emissions by 22,000 tons a year while improving traffic congestion, as fewer Paris residents will need Administration Report • SKF’s customer segments 33 10. Vehicle service market (VSM), 10% of net sales The VSM segment sells spare parts for cars, trucks and two-wheelSKF has a strong, solid global presence in this market and even ers. SKF’s core technical areas are wheel end, engine, driveline and though each geographical market has its own characteristics, the suspension components. success factors are significantly shared: highest quality products, A majority of the business consists of kits key service components solid OE business, professional logistics, and a long-term focus on bundled together with the accessories and information needed to installer loyalty through service, training and marketing. SKF is well carry out a perfect repair. All in one box – identified, tested and positioned in the fast growing markets. As an example, the distributor assembled by SKF. It is a time-saver for mechanics and a safer choice network in China is constantly expanding, which led to more than 50% for car owners. The products are sold to mechanics through SKF’s growth in sales over 2011. network of independent distributors, as well as via OEM customers SKF celebrated its 20th anniversary of SKF’s timing belt kits in and franchised dealers into their service units. 2011, and the 100 millionth timing belt kit produced in the factory at The main factors driving the overall market are: car population St. Cyr, France. growth, car population age, road conditions, product longevity, comThe product portfolio was expanded, especially in the wheel-end ponent value – and most of these factors are pointing in a very posiand engine areas, with 900 new kits launched over the year, making tive direction for the aftermarket sector. the total number of kits available globally in excess of 19,000 units. 11. Trucks, 4% of net sales The medium and heavy truck market (above 6 tons) increased in and rear axle of their new truck series. The hub units will be manu­ 2011, by 12% year-on-year, and around 2.8 million vehicles were factured in SKF’s new factory at Jinan, Shandong Province. For SAIC manufactured globally. Iveco, a contract was signed to supply truck hub units for their light Fuel economy and low total cost of ownership are key factors in the truck axle. SAIC Fiat Hongyan placed an order with SKF for seals and truck segment. In 2011, several new products were launched to meet bearings for their truck engine. In Europe, a contract was signed with new demands from fleet operators. By reducing friction by up to 30% Volvo Bus to supply actuators for bus doors. This new mechatronic or more, SKF Energy Efficient tapered roller bearings for a truck’s final solution reduces the need for maintenance and repair, and brings drive reduce fuel consumption and CO2 emissions. A truck’s final drive reductions of CO2 emissions compared to the current pneumatic is one of the most complicated parts in a truck and offers significant solution. SKF continued to deliver tapered roller bearings for wheel potential for improvement. ends and valve stem seals for engines, as well as the SKF Gear BearSKF continued to supply customers in rapidly expanding markets ing Unit, to Daimler for its heavy duty engine platform. The customwith both new and existing products. In China, the SKF Split Truck ized tapered gear bearing unit is designed to accommodate heavy Hub Unit developed for regional demand will be delivered to CNHTC loads and by significantly reducing friction, fuel consumption and CO2 (China National Heavy Duty Truck Group Co. Ltd.) for use in the front emissions are lowered. In Brazil, SKF signed a three-year agreement with Scania involving the supply of a number of different types of bearings for truck hub bearing units and transmissions. The agreement is worth around SEK 150 million with deliveries over three years from SKF’s factory at Cajamar, Brazil. Photo: Scania 34 Administration Report • SKF’s customer segments The SKF StopGo, a pioneering stop-start system for motorcycles and scooters, was launched in 2011. Benefits include reduction of CO2 emissions and greater fuel efficiency of up to 10%. 12. Two-wheelers and Electrical, 3% of net sales Two-wheelers Electrical The two-wheeler market rose by 8% in 2011, year-on-year, and Customers in this segment include manufacturers of household around 60 million vehicles (excluding bicycles) were manufactured appliances, electric motors for use in consumer goods, power tools globally. The two-wheeler is often the main means of transportation and skates. Saving energy is also an important criterion for customers for people and goods in some regions of the world and therefore the in this segment. loads on the vehicle are sometimes high. Robust products and fuel efficiency are key drivers for this segment. SKF entered a new segment during the year for bicycles after being awarded a contract by FOX Racing Shox for shock absorber seals for their mountain bike forks. In Europe, a new order was received from Arçelik for SKF has worked with major motorcycle companies during the supplying SKF Drum Support Unit for some of their future year, supporting them with engineering knowledge and know-how. washing machines. Arçelik is Turkey’s largest home appliance This collaboration has meant a long-term partnership and technical OEM, manufacturing washing machines, tumble dryers, sponsorship with Ducati Corse and Betamotor. refriger­ators and ovens. These new washing machines will Honda continued to award contracts to SKF in various markets be launch­ed under three brands: Beko, Blomberg and Arçelik. worldwide. New orders included deliveries of crankshaft bearings, By receiving a pre-moulded unit from SKF, Arçelik will avoid steering column bearings and valve stem seals. SKF also started unnecessary assembly time, material and equipment. An to deliver bearings for sensor solutions for the electric engine that estimated volume for the first year is 100,000 pieces and powers the Brammo motorcycles for off-road competitions. Brammo, delivery will start in early 2012. a US company, won one race in the National French championship during the year, thereby beating motorcycles run on conventional internal combustion engine (ICE) motors for the first time in history. Administration Report • SKF’s customer segments 35 SKF’s divisions 2011 Industrial Division With manufacturing and operational sites and sales offices across the Net sales in 2011 amounted to SEK 23,924 million (20,050), a rise globe, the Industrial Division works closely with OEM customers to of 19.3%. Sales including intra-Group sales totaled SEK 34,458 million develop new solutions based on the five technology platforms – bear(29,836). The operating profit was SEK 4,421 million (3,558), with ings and units, seals, mechatronics, services and lubrication systems an operating margin of 12.8% (11.9). The operating profit includes – to bring increasing value to customers. In addition to the products expenses for restructuring activities and other one-off items of around and solutions already available, a series of new market offers was also SEK 60 million (80). The increase in net sales was attributable to introduced to the industrial markets during the year, see pages 20-23. organic growth of 12.5%, structure 14.4% and currency effects of -7.6%. Many of these solutions strongly focus on helping customers increase their energy efficiency, as industries play an essential role in global greenhouse gas emission reductions and resource-use efficiency. Mått 34 x 30 mm Mått 23 x 30 mm Typ 90/90 Typ 80/80 Sales, SEKm* Operating profit, SEKm* Additions to property, Registered number plant and equipment, of employees* SEKm* Net sales Sales incl. intra-Group sales 1,389 34,458 4,421 5,000 1,500 25,000 20,264 40,000 20,018 28,805 29,836 4,000 3,558 20,000 17,906 23,924 30,000 975 19,951 879 20,050 1,000 3,000 15,000 20,000 2,000 1,640 10,000 500 10,000 1,000 5,000 0 0 0 0 2009 2010 2011 2009 2010 2011 2009 2010 2011 2009 2010 2011 * Previously published figures have been reclassified to conform to Group structure 2011. Net sales by geographic area Net sales by customer segment Western Europe 54% Special industrial machinery 17% Energy 13% North America 23% Off-highway 10% General industry 18% Railway 9% Heavy industrial machinery 10% Asia/Pacific 23% Aerospace 13% Other 10% 36 Administration Report • SKF’s divisions Interview with Henrik Lange – President, Industrial Division (as of 1 January 2012 – President, SKF Industrial Market, Strategic Industries) What was most important for you in 2011? What are your priorities over the next few years? For me the most important thing in 2011 was creating more value We will continue to work closely with our customers, delivering higher for our customers. Especially pleasing was delivering higher energyperforming and more optimized solutions, coupled with enhanced efficient solutions, products and innovations that helped our customenvironmental performance. We will do this by driving home our coners meet their production requirements and market demands. cept of life cycle asset thinking in our customer relationships. We want An example is the SKF agricultural Y-bearing unit, which has an to take full advantage of our know-how to support our customers, increased service life feature – four years compared with one to three whether it’s making their operations more efficient and reliable, or years in conventional bearings. For OEMs, this means significant warhelping make their next product innovation materialize. ranty cost reduction and for end-users it enhances reliability. The We will also continue to build up our presence in Asia to meet relubrication-free design can also mean saving up to 200 kg of grease market demand. Besides expanding our geographic presence, we over the service life of a machine. will continue to look for acquisitions. We also intensified our presence in Asia to support the rising Sustainable profitable growth is essential for underpinning our demand for industrial bearings with a new medium-size bearing continued success. We need to focus on flexibility and cost manage­factory in Dalian, China, and we set up SKF’s first product development via the Business Excellence initiative. We have seen great sucment office in the region. cess with our Manufacturing Excellence work that began a couple of Importantly for us, integrating our acquisition of Lincoln with SKF years ago and it is now time to bring our knowledge of this to other Lubrication Systems began and has been very successful. We estabbusiness processes. lished a joint management structure and have high expectations of continued growth in the future. What will change with the new organization? How will customers notice the difference? What are the main opportunities in your business Our approach in recent years has been to support the total life cycle going forward? asset management needs of the different industries we serve. By Growth remains strong in Asia, in segments such as machine tools, combining our manufacturing, marketing, sales and engineering to aerospace, railways, the wind-power aftermarket and lubrication sysboth OEMs and end-users per industry, we will improve our ability to tems, and I see these areas as opportunities for us. We are also seeing provide greater value to our customers with solutions based on SKF’s opportunities for SKF in oil and gas, specifically with our magnetic five technology platforms. bearing solutions. Our opportunities will also be driven by our life cycle asset approach to deliver more value to customers via productivity optimization, total cost of ownership reduction, and energy-­ efficient products and solutions. Administration Report • SKF’s divisions 37 Service Division The Service Division serves the global industrial aftermarket providincorporating all SKF’s technology platforms. The Service Division is ing products and knowledge-based services to increase customers’ also responsible for all SKF’s sales in certain markets. plant asset efficiency. Solutions are based on SKF’s knowledge of Net sales in 2011 amounted to SEK 23,024 million (21,403), a rise bearings, seals, lubrication systems, mechatronics and services, and of 7.6%. Sales including intra-Group sales totalled SEK 23,387 million customers are served by SKF and its network of over 7,000 author(21,746). The operating profit was SEK 3,656 million (2,976), with an ized distributors. The division has five condition monitoring centres, operating margin of 15.6% (13.7). The increase in net sales was who design and produce world-leading hardware and software. The attributable to organic growth of 14.6%, structure 1.0% and currency expanding network of SKF Solution Factories will be the future infraeffects of -8.0%. structure for delivering complete, integrated solutions and services Mått 34 x 30 mm Mått 23 x 30 mm Typ 90/90 Typ 80/80 Sales, SEKm* Operating profit, SEKm* Additions to property, Registered number plant and equipment, of employees* SEKm* Net sales Sales incl. intra-Group sales 23,024 23,387 102 5,741 6,093 21,403 21,746 4,000 3,656 100 6,000 5,672 19,531 24,000 19,182 87 2,976 2,511 18,000 3,000 75 61 4,000 12,000 2,000 50 2,000 6,000 1,000 25 0 0 0 0 2009 2010 2011 2009 2010 2011 2009 2010 2011 2009 2010 2011 * Previously published figures have been reclassified to conform to Group structure 2011. Net sales by geographic area Net sales by customer segment Middle East /Africa 8% Service and serviceNorth America 13% related products 18% Asia/Pacific 33% Bearings and units, power Western Europe 25% transmission products, seals, lubrication systems, Latin America 12% linear motion and Eastern Europe 9% actuation systems 82% 38 Administration Report • SKF’s divisions Interview with Vartan Vartanian – President, Service Division (as of 1 January 2012 – President, SKF Industrial Market, Regional Sales and Service) What was most important for you in 2011? What are your main opportunities going forward? In 2011, focus continued to be on our customers. We met with existI would say that the platforms themselves offer great opportunities. ing customers and partners through major events like SKF Distributor Services is a strong growth platform that has continued to expand in Conventions and Asset Management Conferences. We also put all economic cycles. It is a robust platform that we will continue to emphasis on establishing SKF as a partner to new customers in invest in and grow and we have specific projects to help achieve this emerging industries. goal. We have migrated into areas of sustainability where we can SKF Asset Management Conferences are scheduled to run on each significantly contribute to energy savings at our customers. Take, for continent with the whole objective being for customers to share how example, the problem of misalignment, which is a major cause of they can improve the utilization and reliability of their assets. We can energy loss. With our new range of alignment products, launched last clearly show the value we deliver through the SKF Documented Soluyear, we are able to help our customers eliminate this problem. With tions Program (DSP). Many customers attend year after year because our sealed spherical bearings we are helping eliminate lubricant leakit is a reliable forum where they can learn from each other. We are ing into the environment. These have been successful offers to indusvery proud to say that we generated SEK 3.0 billion in documented tries from mining to metalworking. The food and beverage industry is savings for our customers in 2011. another area where we contribute to both energy savings and reduced Distributor conventions are very important as our distributors environmental impact. With the use of our dry lubrication systems ­connect us to over one million customers globally. As our conduit to and dry lubricants, we have been able to save enormous amounts of customers it is thus extremely important to get together, from time water and reduce the utilization of oil mixed with water. to time, to discuss our programmes and charter the way forward to ensure that we continue to offer enhanced value. To back this up we What are your priorities over the next few years? have “More with SKF” programmes to develop our distributors’ busiOur main priority is to continue to generate value solutions based on nesses and support them in growing sustainably. One example is customer requirement. We will do this by focusing on sharing and SKF Distributor Value Program (DVP) that calculates the value our replicating as well as creating new solutions. We will enhance the distributors deliver to their customers. Another example is our SKF infrastructure to deliver value throughout SKF’s organization, SKF’s Distributor College, which is our knowledge sharing and educational distributors, certified partners and lubrication system houses. We scheme, and which reached a milestone in early 2011 in issuing its want to be easy to deal with and simplify complex problems for our 100,000th certificate. customers. One of SKF’s real competitive advantages is its networks of local sales units and distributors who can provide tailored solutions in parWhat will change with the new organization? allel to meet our customers’ challenges. We also have a global network How will customers notice the difference? of SKF Solution Factories, where all of SKF’s offerings are combined to The new organization will be even more knowledgeable about cuscreate an environment where our customers come with their chaltomers’ business and industry. We will have better opportunities of lenges and we can find solutions in a one-stop process. The Solution offering industry-specific supply chain solutions. The sales units will Factories are equipped with knowledge-based engineers, technicians pool all their support resources to offer continually consistent service and specialists, as well as repair and remanufacturing operations. and support. Administration Report • SKF’s divisions 39 Automotive Division The Automotive Division serves manufacturers of cars, light trucks, engine, steering and driveline applications. For the vehicle service heavy trucks, trailers, buses, two-wheelers and the vehicle service market, the division provides complete repair kits, including a range market, supporting them in bringing innovative and sustainable of drive shafts and constant velocity joints. solutions to global markets. In addition, the division provides energyNet sales in 2011 amounted to SEK 17,771 million (18,231), a fall saving solutions for home appliances, power tools and electric motors. of 2.5%. Sales including intra-Group sales totalled SEK 21,453 million Within the Automotive Division, SKF develops and manufactures (21,995). The operating profit was SEK 1,362 million (1,855), with an bearings, seals and related products and services. Products include operating margin of 6.3% (8.4). The decrease in net sales was attribwheel hub bearing units, tapered roller bearings, small deep groove utable to organic growth of 6.1%, structure -0.9% and currency ball bearings, seals, and mechanical and electrical products for effects of -7.7%. Mått 34 x 30 mm Mått 23 x 30 mm Typ 90/90 Sales, SEKm* Typ Operating 80/80 SEKm* profit, Additions to property, Registered number plant and equipment, of employees* SEKm* Net sales Sales incl. intra-Group sales 1,855 14,474 14,451 21,995 13,480 21,453 25,000 2,000 800 733 15,000 19,107 18,231 1,362 17,771 1,500 592 16,051 20,000 578 600 1,000 10,000 15,000 500 400 10,000 -808 0 5,000 200 5,000 -500 0 -1,000 0 0 2009 2010 2011 2009 2010 2011 2009 2010 2011 2009 2010 2011 * Previously published figures have been reclassified to conform to Group structure 2011. Net sales by geographic area Net sales by customer segment Eastern Europe 2% Other 9% North America 19% Two-wheelers 4% Asia/Pacific 18% Vehicle service market 28% Cars 43% Latin America 11% Western Europe 50% Trucks 16% 40 Administration Report • SKF’s divisions Interview with Tryggve Sthen – President, Automotive Division (as of 1 January 2012 – President, SKF Automotive) What was most important for you in 2011? What are the main opportunities in your business The first thing that comes to mind is the significant growth in the rapidly going forward? expanding Asian markets, and let me mention one example: We As mentioned before, the demand for energy-efficient solutions and received an order from China National Heavy Duty Truck Company from rapidly expanding markets is driving development. Quick eco(CNHTC) for a specially developed hub unit to be fitted on the front and nomic development can be harmful to the environment in a region, and rear axle of their new SITRAK truck. We are setting up a manufacturing can have a negative impact on people’s quality of life. Air pollution is a site close to the customer’s facilities in Jinan, China, and the contract growing concern in many major cities in developing countries, and one is worth around SEK 5 billion, with deliveries stretching over a period reason why we see an accelerating demand for products to minimize of seven years. To further prepare for growing business in the region, the environmental impact of transportation for people and goods. One we strengthened our development resources in India and China. example of how we contribute to improving living conditions in these Another important trend that is continuing is something we see in urban areas is the SKF StopGo, which is a stop-start system for twomany markets and segments worldwide, namely the rising demand wheelers. This new solution will save fuel and reduce emissions for for energy-saving solutions and the reduction of CO2 emissions to fight both new and existing two-wheelers, as it can also be mounted on an global warming. We are working hard to develop new products that existing two-wheeler. The SKF StopGo is also for the aftermarket and will help our customers handle this increasing demand from consumwill be very important on markets with a lot of two-wheelers and ers for conventional cars as well as hybrid and electric cars. The new congested traffic, for example India and Indonesia. SKF Low Weight Hub Bearing Unit will be used mainly for premium cars, electric vehicles and light commercial vehicles. By significantly What are your priorities over the next few years? reducing the weight of the wheel end, fuel consumption and CO2 I see four areas of high priority – the vehicle service market definitely emissions are reduced. being one. Following the growth of the OEM market for cars, trucks and two-wheelers in different parts of the world, the aftermarket is set for How are you meeting the needs of the rapidly expanding growth in a number of countries. We can see this is already happening – markets? e.g. in China – and 2011 was a year of expansion. We have increased the During the year, we started to build two new factories, in Jinan, China number of distributors and look forward to more business opportunities. and Mysore, India. In Mysore, we will be able to increase our service to Second, we need to continue to take advantage of the market growth sealing solution customers in India and the South-East Asia region, in rapidly expanding regions. We are currently in these regions with and benefit from the positive long-term economic trend. We plan to technical centres for developing regional-specific solutions. offer our full range of seals manufactured in Mysore to serve a wide Third, we will continue developing energy-efficient solutions for range of automotive and industrial applications. electrical vehicles, hybrid vehicles and conventional vehicles for all the In addition, we are also increasing our manufacturing capacity at regions we work with. existing facilities. We have decided to expand our bearing production Fourth and finally, we will also continue to invest in growth and to be for car hub units in Shanghai, allowing us to take advantage of the close to our customers by developing global and local partnerships. growth in demand in China for passenger cars. And in Cajamar, Brazil, we increased capacity by an extension to the factory, adding new production lines to serve the domestic Brazilian market. We now have half of our manufacturing capacity in fast-growing regions. Administration Report • SKF’s divisions 41 Interview with Patrick Tong President, PEER Group The company operates as a stand-alone business, acting independently on the market under its brand name PEER, and provides solutions aligned to customer requirements for normal performance applications. Sales under the PEER brand account for around 1.5% of the SKF Group’s net sales. How much did your sales grow in 2011? What were your major achievements in 2011? Sales for the PEER operations in 2011 rose by 18% measured Our strength is in application specific know-how for certain industries in local currencies and compared with 2010. and we utilized it to launch a number of new products. In 2011, many customers from the agricultural industry adopted our newly launched Are you today selling on a more global basis? maintenance-free unit TILLXTREME that offers an eco-friendly soluWhile sales are still mostly to North America, we are today serving a tion with longer service life at greater output efficiency of up to 25 greater number of global customers through new sales units established extra acres per day. in Italy and Germany in 2011, in addition to its existing operations in Another achievement was that PEER’s factory in Xinchang and its China, the UK and Brazil. Sales in Asia and Europe are relatively small service and warehouse operation in Chicago, were audited in 2011 but they are increasing, and as a share of our total sales they grew and approved as part of the SKF Group’s ISO 14001 and OHSAS more than 40% in 2011 over 2010. 18001 global certification. What does PEER manufacture? We mainly manufactures deep groove ball bearings, agricultural bearings, mounted units and tapered roller bearings at our two factories in Xinchang and Changshan in China. PEER helps the SKF Group strengthen its presence in segments such as agriculture, heating, ventilation, air conditioning and mechanical power transmission. 42 Administration Report • Peer Group Interview with Anne-Lie Lind Director, SKF Logistics Services How would you define logistics? What were your major achievements in 2011? Logistics for SKF is the management of the flow of components and One achievement was to expand our logistics footprint to Latin goods in the most effective and efficient way, from our suppliers to America, and as part of this we inaugurated a distribution centre in SKF and from SKF to our customers. It involves integrating inform­ Uruguay, which will give customers a wider assortment and shorter ation, transportation, material handling, inventory management, lead times. Another achievement was to develop our transportation warehousing, packaging and security. network in the USA. We established a door-to-door concept with benefits to customers such as shorter lead times, cost reductions, How does SKF Logistics Services deliver value slightly reduced CO2 emissions and better track and trace giving full to SKF customers? visibility to the final address and thereby reducing transportation time. We reach over 50,000 customer sites with short lead times through our global transportation network and global warehouses. In many Could you tell us about something important regions we can deliver the next day. that will happen in 2012? A North-East Asia distribution centre will be established in Shanghai. How does SKF Logistics Services work to reduce This new distribution centre, will improve service levels to customers environmental impact? in the region. The building will be LEED-certified. We are continually striving for better energy consumption, reduced waste and lower emissions. We focus on sustainability, both at our warehouses and with transportation, for instance by introducing solar panels in warehouses and using biogas trucks in certain regions. SKF started to conform to the Authorized Economic Operator (AEO) certification in 2011 with the aim that all European countries where SKF Logistics Services is active should become AEOs. Sweden, France and Belgium received certification during the year. Receiving the certification recognizes that SKF Logistics Services is seen as a safe, secure business partner in international transportation and logistics. SKF received a “Best Service Provider” award in 2011 from the Belgian Shippers Council Organization of Traffic Management (OTM). The award honours companies that base cooperation on trust, flexibility and creativity. Important values are relationships and partnerships with customers and suppliers, and a strong focus on employees. As SKF has the critical mass to distribute goods worldwide, it also helps other companies to optimize their integrated logistics solutions, giving them a competitive edge in terms of costs, services and flexibility. SKF is able to offer global air, sea and road transportation, international distribution centres and local warehouses, packaging and To further improve SKF’s logistics structure, a new distribution centre was opened in Montevideo, Uruguay. It will improve support and service to cusinventory management. SKF has been providing third party logistics tomers and distributors in the region, while helping to reduce both operating services for more than ten years. costs and capital tied up in inventory. This centre joins the global network As with all the Group’s operations, SKF Logistics Services has a of regional distribution centres, which SKF has in North America, Europe clear focus on reducing energy use and related carbon emissions that and Asia. result from their activities, see page 59. Administration Report • SKF Logistics Services 43 Interview with Bo-Inge Stensson Senior Vice President, Group Purchasing Why is there such a major focus on purchasing today? What are your four sourcing offices’ main objectives The annual sourcing volume is around SEK 30 billion, which is around and where are they located? half of SKF’s net sales. This means that the impact from purchasing and They manage the sourcing and supply operation for supporting our supply is crucial. SKF’s factories need to be close to their customers to manufacturing facilities around the world. We have one sourcing provide optimal service and therefore SKF needs local and regional sup­ office in Shanghai covering China and one in Pune, focusing on the plier bases that are competitive in terms of quality, cost, and delivery. Indian supplier market. The European sourcing office is based in Gothenburg and covers Europe, the Middle East and Africa. The What does sourcing volume consist of? Chicago sourcing office covers North, Central and South America. It consists of steel raw material in terms of bars, wires and tubes and components based on steel as hot rolled, forged and turned rings, How can purchasing and supply chain management balls, rollers, sheet metal cages and shields. It also consists of com­ ­contribute to delivering more value for SKF’s customers? ponents of aluminum, brass, zinc, iron, polymer, plastics and ceramics. By reducing total sourcing costs, securing supplies from our approved We also purchase electronic and electrical components, factory shop supplier base and developing global suppliers who are fully aligned supplies and services, heat and surface treatments, grease, oil, with SKF’s demands. Continually developing demand-driven supply energy and capital equipment. chains with our suppliers and constantly evolving with them is important for reducing total costs, reducing capital employed and cutting How do you manage sourcing operations around the world? lead times in the supply chain. A key focus area is the SKF Responsible We have a central purchasing organization that manage all SKF’s spend­ Sourcing Programme, which ensures that we source from approved ing and the entire supplier network. The central organization coord­ suppliers meeting our EHS standards and the SKF Code of Conduct. inates with SKF’s four sourcing offices in different parts of the world to leverage SKF’s purchasing power and the supplier base. This structure ensures also that local and regional requirements are fulfilled. Steel tubes Steel wire Steel bars 44 Administration Report • Group Purchasing Purchasing and supply chain management Commodity pricing hardened during the first six months of 2011 for as well as supplier requirements being defined in the SKF Quality SKF’s sourced materials, but a softening trend was seen in the latter Standard for Suppliers. By adhering to this standard, suppliers conpart of the year, mainly driven by declining growth in the world econfirm the adoption of SKF Code of Conduct, Environment, Health and omy. However, raw material costs for SKF at the end of 2011 were on Safety and the Zero Defects concepts. a higher level than the average level for 2010. Knowledge about how Major suppliers are also expected to develop management systems the global commodity markets work, taking into account fundamentals, according to international standards ISO14001 (Environment) and sentiment, and the global economy, is key for timing when to enter new OHSAS 18001 (Occupational Health and Safety). Since 2006, major contracts, securing supply and thus minimizing the supply chain risk. suppliers are also required to issue their own code of conduct in line Supply chain management is becoming more important, as with SKF’s. the world becomes more connected. By working with dual sourcing SKF has a number of tools and procedures to support progress schemes, mapping supply chains and understanding where the in this area, these are: bottlenecks are, SKF reduces supply chain risks. The key enablers • The Supplier Quality Audit system, to ensure that the code of conare to work with SKF’s approved supplier bases and the close collabor­ duct and environmental, health and safety aspects are regularly ation between the sourcing offices. evaluated at on-site audits for major suppliers, along with other SKF achieved significant cost savings during the year by working critical aspects. in cross-functional teams with SKF product development and manu• A specific, detailed supplier Code of Conduct auditing procedure, facturing, reviewing product specifications and product design, and in which various SKF staff from the purchasing organization have involving suppliers at an early stage. SKF also achieved significant been trained. Around 100 specific supplier code of conduct audits savings in sourcing of capital equipment, by working with new sup­ have been completed over the last two years. pliers and through equipment standardization. These savings play • Specific requirements related to energy management and carbon an important role in helping to offset high raw material prices and emissions defined for energy intensive suppliers – described on surcharges. Another successful activity was the launch of a “Zero page 60. Defect” scheme with suppliers. • A risk assessment process which allows targeted auditing of higher The work continued to focus on developing a local supplier base in risk suppliers from SKF’s complete supplier base (larger as well as China and India. Today more than 80% of all suppliers are local in both smaller suppliers). The process ranks the risk of environmental or countries. human rights issues based on variables such as location, organizaSKF’s focus on establishing strategic suppliers resulted in a stra­ tion, size and manufacturing/supply processes. tegic partnership agreement with one of its major Asian steel supplier, • A strong governance structure and process, established to assure CITIC Pacific Steel, in China. that all the above is effectively developed and deployed, and that Personnel training and development are other important areas. appropriate measures are taken when suppliers’ code of conduct “SKF Purchasing and Supply Chain round tables” have been successdeviations occur. fully held in China and India. SKF invites other companies to share their best practices and benchmark leading supply chain practices in At the end of 2011, 126 of 158 major suppliers had issued their own purchasing and supply chain management. code of conduct in line with the SKF Code of Conduct and 122 were To strengthen the relationship with top suppliers, SKF invited 100 ISO 14001 certified. Since 2009 3,150 supplier risk assessments of them to SKF’s global supplier award day in March to share SKF’s have been carried out. Based on these assessments more than 60 strategy and targets. On the day SKF presented “Best Supplier” audits were completed during 2011. In total 12 suppliers with signifiawards for quality, cost, delivery, innovation and management, cant deviations have been found within the period of 2009-2011, for including social and environmental responsibility. 9 of those the deviations are closed while actions for closing deviations To assure a responsible sourcing and supply chain, SKF has taken a are ongoing for three suppliers. number of steps in recent years to ensure that suppliers are fully For the fifth consecutive year SKF’s Responsible Sourcing Program aware of the SKF Code of Conduct. SKF Code of Conduct for Suppliers was top ranked by DOW Jones Sustainability Index “Standards for and Sub-contractors is part of SKF’s general conditions of purchase Suppliers”. Polymer and plastics Hot rolled rings Brass components Administration Report • Group Purchasing 45 In 2011, SKF’s second bearing factory in Dalian, China was inaugurated. The factory produces industrial, medium size bearings and will help to significantly reduce lead times and create closer interaction with key customers. At the end of the year, SKF had 13 factories in China. Capacity and technology investments Acquisitions and divestments In 2011, SKF inaugurated its second bearing factory in Dalian, China. SKF completed two agreements in line with its strategy to divest nonThe factory produces medium size bearings, which complements the core component manufacturing: range of large size bearings produced at the existing factory opened in On 1 February 2011, the forging business OMVP, in Villar Perosa, 2006. SKF had 13 factories in China at the end of 2011. Italy was sold to the German-based company Neumayer Tekfor SKF also announced the construction of two new factories, one in ­Holding GmbH. OMVP has about 550 employees and net sales of Jinan, China, which will support the rapid growth of SKF’s business in around EUR 100 million, mainly to SKF. China and Asia. The factory will be fully operational by the first half of At the beginning of Q2, the cage factory in Gothenburg was sold to 2012, initially employing about 500 people and primarily manufacthe Japanese component manufacturer Nakanishi Metal Works Co., turing tapered roller bearings and truck hub bearing units. This Ltd. The factory has 130 employees and will continue to supply SKF. investment of around SEK 590 million. The other factory will be in Additionally two other minor divestments were completed during Mysore, India, built for sealing solution customers in India and the 2011 as well as one minor acquisition. South-East Asia region. There will be a full range of seals manufactured in Mysore to serve a wide range of automotive and industrial More details about acquisition and divestments can be found in applications. The factory will start deliveries in 2012. These new Consolidated financial statements, Note 3 and 4. factories, as with all new SKF facilities, are built to the LEED standard. SKF also decided to expand its bearing production for car hub units Lincoln in Shanghai, to take advantage of the growth in demand in China for The integration of Lincoln, which was acquired at the end of 2010, passenger cars. And in Cajamar, Brazil, SKF increased capacity by an focused on capturing business growth and generating synergies. extension to the factory, adding new production lines to serve the A key focus is on further developing SKF and Lincoln’s distributor domestic Brazilian market. network to expand its business through a wider portfolio of SKF and SKF inaugurated its Global Technical Centre (GTCI) in Bengaluru, Lincoln branded products. This has already resulted in strong growth India at the end of 2011. The opening of the GTCI further reinforces in the lubrication business. Work to combine the R&D activities was SKF’s strategy both to bring technology development closer to its cusstarted and the joint R&D efforts have already led to a number of tomers and to fully utilize its global presence and resources to develop patents being filed for new solutions. On the personnel side, corpor­ product innovations across its five technology platforms bearings, ate culture and value training has been carried out to introduce the seals, mechatronics, lubrication systems and services. The new GTCI new employees to SKF. will incorporate the existing Global Testing Centre, opened in 2009 Lincoln complements SKF’s existing lubrication business of geoand the Automotive Development Centre, opened in 2004, both of graphical sales coverage, technology and manufacturing presence. which are located in Bengaluru. SKF has invested around SEK 75 million in GTCI. It will employ around 400 engineers in product engineering and development, as well as in laboratories for testing metallurgy, chemistry and bearing performance analysis. GTCI will have a strong focus on serving customers in India and South-East Asia, as well as global projects for SKF. The GTCI has also been built in accordance with the LEED standard. 46 Administration Report • Investments, aquisitions and divestments • Lincoln Shares and shareholders SKF’s shares as of 31 December 2011 SKF’s A and B shares have been quoted on the NASDAQ OMX Stockholm AB since 1914. The total number of shares traded in 2011 was 735,202,267. SKF’s ADRs are traded on the OTC market. A shares, unrestricted 42,949,482 B shares, unrestricted 412,401,586 Total 455,351,068 An A share gives the entitlement to one vote and a B share to one-tenth of a vote. It was decided at AB SKF’s Annual General Meeting on 18 April 2002 to insert a clause in the Articles of Association which would allow owners of A shares to convert these to B shares. 1,966,122 A-shares were converted to B shares in 2011. A-shares are constituting 9.4% of total number of shares, to be compared to 9.8% in December 2011 and 43.3% in December 2001. Price trend of SKF’s shares B share A share Number of A shares traded, thousands SEK OMX Stockholm_PI (normalized against the B share) Number of B shares traded, thousands 200 180 160 140 120 200,000 100 150,000 80 100,000 60 50,000 40 Source: 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Macrobond Basic earnings Shareholders’ equity Cash flow after operating investmensts, per share, SEK before financial items per share, SEK Basic earnings per Equity per share, SEK Cash flow after investments, share, SEK before financing per share, SEK 12.63 2006-12-01 2007-01-01 2007-05-01 2007-03-01 2007-04-01 2007-02-01 2007-07-01 2007-08-01 2007-09-01 2007-06-01 2007-11-01 2007-12-01 2008-01-01 2007-10-01 2008-03-01 2008-04-01 2008-05-01 2008-02-01 2008-07-01 2008-08-01 2008-09-01 2008-06-01 2008-11-01 2008-12-01 2009-01-01 2008-10-01 2009-03-01 2009-04-01 2009-02-01 2009-05-01 2009-08-01 2009-06-01 2009-07-01 2009-09-01 2009-10-01 2009-12-01 2010-01-01 2010-02-01 2009-11-01 2010-04-01 2010-05-01 2010-06-01 2010-03-01 2010-08-01 2010-09-01 2010-10-01 2010-07-01 2010-12-01 2011-01-01 2011-02-01 2010-11-01 2011-04-01 2011-05-01 2011-06-01 2011-03-01 2011-08-01 2011-07-01 2011-10-01 2011-12-01 2012-01-01 2011-11-01 2011-09-01 2012-02-01 15 13.29 50 47 12 11.28 42 38 8.45 9 2006-12-01 2007-06-01 2007-07-01 102007-08-01 2007-09-01 2007-10-01 2007-11-01 2007-12-01 2007-04-01 2007-03-01 2007-05-01 2007-01-01 2007-02-01 2008-01-01 2008-02-01 2009-06-01 2009-07-01 2009-08-01 2009-09-01 2008-12-01 2008-03-01 2008-04-01 2008-05-01 2008-06-01 2008-07-01 2008-08-01 2008-09-01 2008-10-01 2008-11-01 2009-01-01 2009-02-01 2009-03-01 2009-04-01 2009-05-01 2009-10-01 2009-12-01 2010-01-01 2010-02-01 2009-11-01 2010-07-01 2010-08-01 2010-09-01 2010-10-01 2010-11-01 2011-01-01 2011-02-01 2011-03-01 2011-04-01 2011-05-01 2011-06-01 2011-07-01 2011-08-01 2011-09-01 2010-12-01 2010-03-01 2010-04-01 2010-05-01 2010-06-01 2011-10-01 2011-11-01 2011-12-01 2012-01-01 2012-02-01 0 25 6 5 3.61 3 -6.23 0 0 0 09 10 11 09 10 11 09 10 11 Administration Report • Shares and shareholders 47 28x25 Per-share data (definitions, see page 158) Swedish kronor/share unless otherwise stated 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 2005 Earnings per share 13.29 11.28 3.61 10.14 10.09 9.48 7.73 Dividend per A and B share 5.50 1) 5.00 3.50 3.50 5.00 4.50 4.00 Total dividends, SEKm 2,5041) 2,277 1,594 1,594 2,277 2,049 1,821 1,366 Redemption per share – – – – 5.00 10.00 – Total redemption, SEKm – – – 2,277 4,554 – 2,846 Purchase price of B shares at year-end on NASDAQ OMX Stockholm 145.60 191.60 123.60 77.25 104.79 113.22 99.80 Equity per share 47 42 38 41 40 42 38 Yield in percent (B) 3.81) 2.6 2.8 4.5 4.8 4.0 4.0 Yield in percent (B), incl. share redemption – – – – 9.5 12.8 – P/E ratio, B (share price/earnings per share) 11.0 17.0 34.2 7.6 10.4 11.9 12.9 Cash flow, after investments and before financing, per share 8.45 -6.23 12.63 0.14 4.67 4.74 5.25 1) According to the Board’s proposal for the year 2011. The ten largest shareholders In percent of In percent of A shares B shares Number of shares Number of votes voting rights share capital Foundation Asset Management 21,000,000 37,850,000 58,850,000 24,785,000 29.4 12.9 Swedbank Robur Funds 2,157,666 17,822,338 19,980,004 3,939,899 4.7 4.4 Alecta 2,192,404 17,602,200 19,794,604 3,952,624 4.7 4.3 AMF Pension 0 16,960,000 16,960,000 1,696,000 2.0 3.7 Nordea Investment Funds 0 10,631,505 10,631,505 1,063,150 1.3 2.3 SEB Investment Management 187,842 7,313,512 7,501,354 919,193 1.1 1.6 Folksam 0 7,417,283 7,417,283 741,728 0.9 1.6 First Swedish National Pension Fund 0 7,308,727 7,308,727 730,872 0.9 1.6 Handelsbanken Funds 24,495 6,463,154 6,487,649 670,810 0.8 1.4 Second Swedish National Pension Fund 0 4,804,775 4,804,775 480,477 0.6 1.1 25,562,407 134,173,494 159,735,901 38,979,753 46.4 34.9 Source: Euroclear Sweden AB’s public share register as of 31 December 2011. Foundation Asset Management Sweden AB (FAM) is the only shareholder with a shareholding representing at least 10% of the voting rights in SKF. As of 31 December 2011, about 36% of the share capital was owned by foreign investors, about 55% by Swedish companies, institutions and mutual funds and about 9% by private Swedish investors. Most of the shares owned by foreign investors are registered through trustees, so that the actual shareholders are not officially registered. Distribution of shareholding Number of Number Shareholding shareholders % of shares % 1 – 1,000 55,994 81.8 18,836,623 4.14 1,001 – 10,000 11,140 16.3 30,803,042 6.76 10,001 – 100,000 1,001 1.5 28,161,811 6.18 100,001 – 272 0.4 377,549,592 82.92 68,407 100.0 455,351,068 100.00 Source: Euroclear Sweden AB (Securities Register Centre) as of 31 December 2011. 48 Administration Report • Shares and shareholders Changes in share capital 1982–2011 Amount paid Share capital Number of Quoted value SEKm SEKm shares in millions per share, SEK 1982 Bonus issue 1:4 – 1,350 27.0 50.00 1989 Split 4:1 – 1,350 108.0 12.50 1990 Conversion of debentures 62 1,412 113.0 12.50 1997 Conversion of bonds 11 1,423 113.8 12.50 2005 Split 5:1 and redemption – 1,138 455.3 2.50 2007 Split 2:1 and redemption – 1,138 455.3 2.50 2008 Split 2:1 and redemption – 1,138 455.3 2.50 Share savings fund for employees SKF Allemansfond, a national security savings fund for SKF employees in Sweden was started in 1984. On 31 December 2011, the SKF Allemansfond had 3,504 members. 32.1% of the fund was invested in SKF’s shares. Assets amounted to SEK 134 million. Geographic ownership Source: SIS Ownership Data Corp. Sweden Sweden Sweden Europe excl. Sweden Europe excl. Sweden Europe excl. Sweden USA USA USA Rest of the world Rest of the world Rest of the world 2011 2010 2009 There are currently more than 40 analysts who analyze and follow SKF and give recommendations on the shares. Names and companies can be found at www.skf.com. Go to “Investors”, then “The shares” and then “Analysts”. Additional information AB SKF Stock Fund in the USA There are no regulations under Swedish law or under the Articles of SKF USA Inc. is offering a majority of its employees a possibility to Association limiting the transferability of SKF shares. Furthermore, defer pre-tax earnings into a Defined Contribution Pension Plan. The to the best of SKF’s knowledge, there exist no agreements between employees can direct the contributions and the matching contributions shareholders limiting the right to transfer SKF shares (e.g. by pre­emption by the Company to different mutual funds. Through 31 December or first refusal clauses). No limitations exist limiting the number of 2010, deferrals could be invested in an AB SKF Stock Fund. Effective votes which each shareholder may cast at a shareholders’ meeting. 1 January 2011, deferrals and transfers into this fund are no longer There are no existing agreements between SKF and any Board permitted, although employees could maintain balances existing at member or employee, which allow them to receive compensation in 1 January 2011. The employees have no direct voting rights based on case of resignation, dismissal without cause, or termination of employ­ the shares held in the fund. The fund held 688,148 SKF B shares at ment as a consequence of a public takeover bid on the shares in AB SKF. the end of 2011. Administration Report • Shares and shareholders 49 Financial objectives and strategy SKF’s overall financial objective is to create value for its shareholders. Over time, the return on shareholders’ investment should exceed the risk-free interest rate by around five percentage points. This is the basis for SKF’s financial objectives and SKF’s financial performance management model. Financial targets SKF’s long-term financial targets were announced in October 2010. The targets are: • an operating margin level of 15% • annual sales growth in local currencies of 8% • a return on capital employed of 27%. Strategy SKF’s business strategy for achieving long-term profitable growth and attaining financial targets includes: • keeping a clear and dedicated customer focus • strengthening the product portfolio through greater investment in R&D and through acquisitions • developing new products, solutions and services based on innovative technology, which helps to achieve a better environmental performance • creating and capturing more value by applying the SKF platform and segment approach • focusing on rapidly expanding segments and regions • using Business Excellence to improve efficiency in the business and to reduce capital tied up • attracting, retaining and developing the right people • developing and protecting the SKF brand. Operating margin Changes in sales Return on capital in local currency employed Aquisitions /divestments Organic growth % % 14.5 % Y-o-Y 13.8 15 12.9 20 30 24.9 12.2 16.3 24.0 24.0 23.6 14.2 25 15 13.2 10 20 5.7 10 15 7.1 9.1 5 10 5 -19.0 5 0 0 0 07 08 09 10 11 07 08 09 10 11 07 08 09 10 11 50 Administration Report • Financial objectives and strategy Financial performance management model Repurchase of the company’s own shares SKF’s financial performance management model is a simplified, ecoThe Board proposes that the Annual General Meeting should resolve nomic value-added model, called Total Value Added (TVA), promoting to authorize the Board, until the next Annual General Meeting, to a greater operating profit, capital efficiency and profitable growth. decide upon the repurchase of the company’s own shares. The intenTVA is the operating profit, less the pre-tax cost of capital in the tion of this proposal is to be able to adapt the capital structure of the country where business is conducted. The pre-tax cost of capital is company to its capital needs in order thereby to contribute to based on a weighted cost of capital with a risk premium of 5% above increased shareholder value. According to the proposal, the author­ the risk-free interest rate for the equity part and on actual borrowing ization will involve Class A shares as well as Class B shares. The max­ cost. The TVA performance for the Group correlates well with the imum number of shares to be repurchased will be such that the comshare price trend over a longer period of time. Variable salary pany then holds a maximum of 5% of all shares issued by the company. schemes are primarily based on this model. The shares may be repurchased by operations on the NASDAQ OMX Stockholm AB. The proposal is subject to a resolution by the Annual Financial position and dividend policy General Meeting in April 2012. The capital structure target is a gearing of around 50%, corresponding The Annual General Meeting in April 2011 resolved to authorize to an equity/assets ratio of around 35% or a net debt/equity ratio of the Board, until the next Annual General Meeting, to decide on the around 80%. This underpins the Group’s financial flexibility and its ability repurchase of the company’s own shares. In 2011, no repurchases to continue investing in its business, while maintaining a strong credit were made and the company owns no SKF shares. rating. On 31 December 2011, the gearing was 48.9% (48.6), the equity/ assets ratio 37.8% (36.6) and the net debt/equity ratio 72.5% (80.5). Credit rating On 31 December 2011, the Group had an A minus (A-) rating with stable outlook for long-term credit from Standard and Poor’s and an Gearing: Loans plus net provisions for post-employment benefits, as a percentage of the sum of loans, net provisions for postA3 rating with stable outlook from Moody’s Investors Service. SKF employment benefits and equity, all at year-end. intends to keep a strong credit rating, which is reflected in its capital Equity/assets ratio: Equity as a percentage of total assets at structure targets. year-end. Net debt/equity: Total short-term financial assets excluding Financing derivatives minus loans and provisions for post-employment SKF’s policy is to have long-term financing of its operations. As of 31 benefits, as a percentage of equity, all at year-end. December 2011, the average maturity of SKF’s loans was 4.0 years. SKF has two notes issued on the European bond market, one with an SKF’s dividend and distribution policy is based on the principle that outstanding amount of EUR 396 million and a due date of 2013 and the total dividend should be adapted to the trend for earnings and another note of EUR 500 million due 2018. Furthermore, SKF has cash flow, while taking into account the Group’s development potential issued one note of EUR 100 million on the Swedish market with a due and financial position. The Board of Directors’ view is that the ordinary date in 2015. dividend should amount to around one half of SKF’s average net profit According to the conditions of the notes, the notes’ interest rate calculated over a business cycle. may increase by 5% in case of a change of control of the company in If the financial position of the SKF Group exceeds the targets stated combination with a rating downgrade to a non-investment grade as a above, an additional distribution to the ordinary dividend could be consequence of this. Change of control meaning any party/concerted made in the form of a higher dividend, a redemption scheme or a re­­ parties acquiring more than 50% of SKF’s share capital or SKF’s purchase of the company’s own shares. On the other hand, in periods shares carrying more than 50% of the voting rights. of more uncertainty a lower dividend ratio could be appropriate. Since SKF has relatively standardized loan documentation similar conditions also apply to other loan agreement. Dividend In addition to the loans mentioned above SKF also has four loans, Based on the strong performance, cash generation capacity and outtwo with due date in 2014, EUR 30 million and EUR 100 million and look, the Board has decided to propose to the Annual General Meeting two with due date in 2016 and 2017 of EUR 100 million and SEK an increase in the dividend by 10%, giving a dividend of SEK 5.50 (5.00) 1,000 million. per share. This proposal is subject to a resolution by the Annual General Meeting in April 2012. See page 137, Proposed distribution of surplus. Administration Report • Financial objectives and strategy 51 Financial risks Interest rate risk SKF’s operations are exposed to various types of financial risk. The Liquidity and borrowing are managed at Group level. By matching the Group’s financial policy defines the main risks as currency, interest duration of investments and borrowings, the interest rate exposure of rate, credit and liquidity risks and defines responsibility and authority the Group can be reduced. to manage them. The policy states that the objective is to eliminate or minimize risk and to contribute to a better return through active risk Credit risk management. The responsibility for risk management and treasury The Group policy states that only well-established financial instituoperations are largely centralized to the SKF Treasury Centre, the tions will be approved as counterparties. Exposure per counterpart Group’s internal bank. is continuously monitored. Currency risk Liquidity risk SKF is subject to both transaction and translation exposure. The In addition to its own liquidity, AB SKF had committed credit facilities Group’s principal commercial flows of foreign currencies pertain to of SEK 3,000 million with a due date in 2017 and EUR 500 million exports from Europe to North America and Asia as well as intrawith a due date in 2014. European business. SKF hedges 75% of the estimated net USD expos­ ure for three to twelve months. At year-end, the hedging with derivatives conformed to the Group policy. Translation exposure on Group More details about risk management and hedging activities can be accounts is hedged to some extent by borrowing in foreign currencies. found in Consolidated financial statements, Note 28. Sensitivity analysis Costs This analysis shows how changes of a number of factors will affect the Group’s operating profit for a year. Calculations are based on year-end figures as well as on the assumption that Cost split 2011, operating expenses SEK 56,624 m everything else is equal. • The annual cost of raw materials and components is around SEK 17 billion of which steel-based products account for the majority. An increase/decrease of 1% in the cost of raw 3% Depreciation and amortization materials and components reduces/increases the operating 27% Other profit by around SEK 170 million. Steel scrap is a major 37% Material: 12% raw material (example: bars, tubes and rings) ingredient in making bearing steel. A 10% increase/decrease 63% components (example: forged and turned rings) of market scrap prices increase/decrease SKF’s operating 25% other (shop supplies profit by SEK 140 million, which is already included in the and traded products etc.) figure for raw materials and components that impacts the 33% Employees operating profit. • An increase of 1% to wages and salaries (including social security charges) reduces the operating profit by around SEK 170 million. • A decrease/increase of 1% in interest rates has2-Spalt a positive/ negative effect on the profit before tax of around SEK 70 million, based on the current position. The Group hadUSD net interest bearing liabilities of SEK 15,604 million onCAD 31 Net currency flows 2011 (SEKm) December 2011. SEK Other Exchange rates USD 5,720 Translation effects: A weakening/strengthening of 5% of the USD-related currencies 3,024 SEK versus all major currencies has a positive/negative effect EUR -3,501 of the translation of profits in SEK of around SEK 400 million. Other 510 1) Most of the profit is made outside Sweden, meaning the Group SEK -5,753 is exposed to translational risks, from all major currencies. -6,000 -4,500 -3,000 -1,500 0 1,500 3,000 4,500 6,000 Transaction effects: A strengthening/weakening of 5% of the USD versus the SEK has a positive/negative net currency 1) Other is a sum comprising 10 different currencies. flow effect on the profit before tax of around SEK 300 million, excluding effects from hedging transactions. With regard to commercial flows, the Group is primarily exposed to the USD and USD-related currencies against SEK and EUR. 52 Administration Report • Sensitivity analysis Internal control and risk management regarding financial International, as well as other internally determined fraud risk parareporting meters. The fraud risk assessment is mainly used for determining the The Group’s systems for internal control and risk management in legal units to be audited. relation to the preparation of the Consolidated Financial Statements During 2011, SKF launched a new anti-corruption programme. are described in the Corporate Governance Report under the heading This programme includes a new Group Policy for Anti-Corruption and “Internal control and risk management regarding financial reporting”, Anti-Fraud, which applies to any company within the SKF Group and pages 152-153. its relationships with other parties. It also includes an interactive video based learning tool. The training is compulsory for all SKF Risks and uncertainties in the business employees with a company email address. The completion of this The company operates in many different industrial and automotive training will be followed up using SKF’s recently launched competency segments, as well as in many geographical segments with dissimilar management system. business cycles. A general economic downturn at a global level, or in A new web-based e-learning about fraud awareness is currently one of the world’s leading economies, could reduce the demand for the being developed and is expected to be launched globally in 2012. The Group’s products, solutions and services for a period of time. In add­ previous version was launched in 2008 and covered different types of ition, terrorism and other hostilities, as well as disturbances in worldfraud, fraud risk management and SKF’s whistle-blowing procedures. wide financial markets, could have a negative effect on the demand for The new training will cover the same scope as the previous training the Group’s products and services. There are also political and regulabut is more comprehensive and will be hosted on SKF’s Learning Mantory risks associated with the wide geographical presence. Regulatory agement System to provide improved follow-up. The training is manrequirements, taxes, tariffs and other trade barriers, price or datory for all financial managers and local management. exchange controls or other governmental policies could limit the SKF The Group takes all allegations and complaints submitted seriously. Group’s operations. These risks are also applicable for the Parent Assessments and investigations are carried out immediately. For company as it is dependent on the financial position and development more significant cases, external auditors are assigned to the investiof the subsidiaries. A general decline in the demand for the products gation. No case of fraud was discovered in 2011. and services provided by the Group could mean lower dividend income The SKF Code of Conduct was issued in 2002 and was updated and for the parent company, as well as a need for write-down of the values re-launched in 2007 in a new publication called the SKF Commitment. in the shares in subsidiaries. Due to the wide spread of markets, geoAvailable in eighteen languages, the SKF Commitment covers SKF’s graphically as well as operationally in which the subsidiaries operate, Vision, Mission, Drivers, Values and Code of Conduct. It was distribu­ the risk that the financial position for the parent company will be negted to all employees and discussion workshops with presentations and atively affected is assessed as small. workgroup exercises are organized locally. In November 2011, SKF and other companies in the bearing indusIn 2004, SKF introduced internal auditing of compliance with the try became part of an investigation by the European Commission Code of Conduct at its units. The audit was integrated into the ISO regarding a possible violation of EU antitrust rules. Given the nature 14001/OHSAS 18001 audit process, and units were inspected at biof these investigations, the outcome may affect the Group’s results annual intervals by corporate audit teams. The audit procedure was and cash flow with an amount that may be material. It is however too improved in 2008 by introducing a non-financial risk assessment. early to assess whether and when such an effect may occur and hence This incorporates human rights principles, ethics, environmental can be accounted for. issues plus health and safety risks. The objective is to vary the audit frequency according to risk, putting more focus on high risk (such as SKF’s policies and the SKF Code of Conduct newly acquired units), and less on long-established units that have SKF applies the principles of sound corporate governance by mainshown a good performance. The nominal audit frequency remains taining an efficient organizational structure with clear areas of biannually, but may vary from annually to once every three years, responsibility, transparent financial reporting and good corporate depending on the assessed risk. See page 64 for a summary of the ­citizenship. The corporate governance principles applied by SKF are Code of Conduct compliance audits completed in 2011. based on Swedish law, in particular the Swedish Companies Act, Besides the SKF Code of Conduct, the SKF Group Antitrust Policy, and the regulatory system of the NASDAQ OMX Stockholm. SKF the SKF Group Anti-Corruption and Anti-Fraud Policy and the SKF Corporate Governance Report can be found on pages 144-153. Group Policy on the Use of Gifts and other Favours to Promote BusiGood internal controls are necessary for achieving business targets ness Contacts and Relationships, are in place to promote free and fair and meeting the expectations of shareholders, customers, suppliers trade as well as to endorse honesty and integrity in business relations. and other external parties. It is also necessary for safeguarding the All policies are governed by the legal department. Group’s assets and ensuring that all information used for business decisions is of the highest possible quality. Counterfeit products Building on the work completed to assure SOX compliance, SKF SKF supported authorities in more than 230 legal actions during introduced the SKF Internal Control Standard (SICS) in 2008, applic­ 2011 against suspected counterfeit bearing dealers and manufac­ able to all companies, divisions, business areas, departments and turers around the world. In all of the cases counterfeit products were functions in the Group. The objective of this standard is to ensure that involved. Counterfeit products of all types pose a risk to people and a basic, consistent system of internal control is maintained throughthe global economy. SKF focuses on protecting customers, to prevent out the Group. SICS is based on the COSO framework. unexpected down-time, bodily harm to machinery operators and Adherence to the standard is monitored by SKF’s Board of Direcfinancial damage. The threat to society by fake products is now tors’ Audit Committee, Group Audit and the finance organizations of universally recognized and continuous support to law enforcement, the companies, divisions and the Group. Periodic audits are carried customs and other authorities makes up the majority of SKF’s antiout to ensure that internal control is maintained at the required level. counterfeit work. As a consequence of this, in addition to supporting Fraud risk assessments are carried out annually by Group Audit. law enforcement, SKF also works intensively to increase awareness These are based on the corruption index issued by Transparency about counterfeits in the market and the need to use safe sources. Administration Report 53 AB SKF’s Board’s proposal for principles of remuneration for Group Management Introduction Performance Shares The Board of Directors of AB SKF has decided to submit the following Since 2008 SKF’s Annual General Meeting has resolved each year principles of remuneration for SKF’s Group Management to the upon a performance share programme for senior managers and key Annual General Meeting 2012. Group Management is defined as the employees (SKF’s Performance Share Programmes 2008 2011). President and the other members of the management team. The The Board of Directors proposes that a decision be taken at the principles apply in relation to members of Group Management Annual General Meeting on SKF’s Performance Share Programme appointed after the adoption of the principles, and, in other cases, to 2012. The terms and conditions of the proposed SKF’s Performance the extent permitted under existing agreements. Share Programme 2012 are in essence the same as the terms The objective of the principles is to ensure that the SKF Group can and conditions of SKF’s previous performance share programmes, attract and retain the best people in order to support the SKF Group’s covered by the principles of remuneration for Group Management mission and business strategy. Remuneration for Group Management decided at the Annual General Meetings 2008 2011. shall be based on market competitive conditions and at the same time It is proposed that the programme covers a maximum of 310 senior support the shareholders’ best interests. managers and key employees in the SKF Group, including Group The total remuneration package for a Group Management member ­Management, with the opportunity of being allotted, free of charge, consists primarily of the following components: fixed salary, variable SKF B shares. salary, performance shares, pension benefits, conditions for notice of The number of shares that may be allotted must be related to the termination and severance pay, and other benefits such as a company degree of achievement of the TVA target level, as defined by the Board car. The components shall create a well balanced remuneration of Directors, for the financial year 2012, and the TVA development for reflecting individual performance and responsibility as well as the the financial year 2014 compared to the financial year 2012. Under SKF Group’s overall performance. the programme, no more than 1,000,000 B shares may be allotted. Based on the TVA for the financial year 2012, the participants of Fixed salary the programme may be preliminarily allotted a number of shares per The fixed salary of a Group Management member shall be at a market person, however, not exceeding the following number of shares per competitive level. It will be based on competence, responsibility and person within the various key groups: performance. The SKF Group uses an internationally well-recognized CEO and President 10,000 shares evaluation system, International Position Evaluation (IPE), in order to Business area Presidents and evaluate the scope and responsibility of the position. Market benchExecutive Vice President 5,000 shares marks are conducted on a regular basis. The performance of Group Other members of Group Management 3,500 shares Management members is continuously monitored and used as a basis Managers of large business units and for annual reviews of fixed salaries. other senior managers 1,250 1,800 shares Following the expiry of the financial year 2014 a comparison is made Variable salary between TVA for the financial year 2012 and TVA for the financial year The variable salary of a Group Management member runs according 2014. The development in TVA between the two financial years is set to a performance-based programme. The purpose of the programme out in percentage. Final allotment of shares is established by the preis to motivate and compensate value-creating achievements in order liminary number of allotted shares being multiplied with the percentto support operational and financial targets. age development in TVA. If the development is positive the particiThe performance-based programme is primarily based on the pants will thus receive an increased number of shares in final short-term financial performance of the SKF Group established allotment compared to the number preliminary allotted, whereas if according to the SKF financial performance management model called the development is negative the participants will receive a decreased Total Value Added (TVA). TVA is a simplified, economic value-added number of shares in final allotment compared to the number prelimimodel. This model promotes greater operating profit, capital effinary allotted. Final allotment may, however, never exceed 200% of the ciency and profitable growth. The TVA profit is the operating profit, preliminarily allotted number of shares per person. The participants less the pre-tax cost of capital in the country in which the business is in the programme may thus in final allotment receive not more than the conducted. The TVA result development for the SKF Group correlates following number of shares per person within the various key groups: well with the trend of the share price over a longer period of time. CEO and President 20,000 shares The maximum variable salary according to the programme is Business area Presidents and capped at a certain percentage of the fixed annual salary. The perExecutive Vice President 10,000 shares centage is linked to the position of the individual and varies between Other members of Group Management 7,000 shares 40% and 70% for Group Management members. Managers of large business units and If the financial performance of the SKF Group is not in line with the other senior managers 2,500 3,600 shares requirements of the variable salary programme, no variable salary will be paid. The maximum variable salary will not exceed 70% of the The participants shall not provide any consideration for their rights accumulated annual fixed salary of Group Management members. under the programme. 54 Administration Report • AB SKF’s Board’s proposal for principles of remuneration for Group Management Assuming maximum allocation under SKF’s Performance Share Preparation of matters relating to remuneration for Programme 2012 and a share price of SEK 140, the cost, including Group Management social security costs, is estimated at around SEK 168 million. On the The Board of Directors of AB SKF has established a Remuneration basis of a share price of SEK 180, the cost, including social security Committee. The Committee consists of a maximum of four Board costs, is estimated at around SEK 216 million. In addition, administramembers. The Remuneration Committee prepares all matters relattive costs are estimated at around SEK 2 million. ing to the principles of remuneration for Group Management, as well as the employment conditions of the President. Other benefits The principles of remuneration for Group Management are preThe SKF Group provides other benefits to Group Management memsented to the Board of Directors that submits a proposal for such bers in accordance with local practice. The accumulated value of other principles to the Annual General Meeting for approval. The Board of benefits shall, in relation to the value of the total remuneration, be Directors must approve the employment conditions of the President. limited and shall, as a principle, correspond to what is customary on the relevant market. Information about remuneration decided upon but not Other benefits can for instance be a company car, medical insurance due for payment and home service. The structure of Group Management remuneration decided upon prior to the approval of these principles for remuneration but not due Pension for payment is substantially in line with these principles. However, in The SKF Group strives to establish pension plans based on defined relation hereto the following should be noted: contribution models, which means that a premium is paid amounting • The Annual General Meetings 2008 2011 resolved on SKF’s Perto a certain percentage of the employee’s annual salary. The commitformance Share Programmes 2008 2011, with in essence the ment in these cases is limited to the payment of an agreed premium to same terms and conditions as of the proposed SKF’s Performance an insurance company offering pension insurance. Share Programme 2012. A Group Management member is normally covered by, in addition Allotment of shares under SKF’s Performance Share Programme to the basic pension (for Swedish members usually the ITP pension 2008 was made in the beginning of 2011. No allotment of shares plan), a supplementary defined contribution pension plan. By offering has been or will be made under SKF´s Performance Share Prothis supplementary defined contribution plan, it is ensured that Group gramme 2009 due to non-fulfillment of the TVA target for the Management members are entitled to earn pension benefits based on financial year 2009. Any allotment of shares under SKF’s Perforthe fixed annual salary above the level of the basic pension. It is promance Share Programme 2010 and 2011, respectively, will be posed that the normal retirement age for Group Management memmade during 2013 and 2014, respectively. bers is increased from 62 to 65 years. • The pension conditions of the President are described on page 120 in the Annual Report. Notice of termination and severance pay • Certain members of Group Management have defined benefit penA Group Management member may terminate his/her employment by sion solutions. giving six months’ notice. In the event of termination of employment • If the retirement age is increased to 65 years as proposed by the at the request of the company, employment shall cease immediately. Board, certain members of Group Management will still have a The Group Management member shall however receive a severance retirement age of 62 years based on already existing agreements. payment related to the number of years’ service, provided that it shall • Certain members of Group Management are, in the event of termin­ always be maximized to two years’ fixed salary. ation of employment at the request of the company, entitled to receive a severance payment which is not related to the number of The Board of Directors’ right to deviate from the principles years’ service, but amounting to a maximum of two years’ salary. of remuneration In certain cases, the Board of Directors may deviate from the principles Principles of remuneration for Group Management 2011 and of remuneration decided by the Annual General Meeting. remuneration of Group Management 2011, see Consolidated Financial Statements Note 25. Nomination of Board members and notice of General Meeting In addition to specially-appointed members and deputies, the company’s Notice to attend an Annual General Meeting and notice to attend Board of Directors shall comprise a minimum of five and a maximum an Extra General Meeting where an issue relating to a change in the of ten members, with a maximum of five deputies. The Annual General Articles of Association will be dealt with, shall be issued no earlier than Meeting shall, inter alia, determine the number of Board members six weeks and no later than four weeks prior to the General Meeting. and deputy Board members, and preside over the elections of Board Notice to attend another kind of Extra General Meeting shall be issued members and deputy Board members. no earlier than six weeks and no later than three weeks prior to the General Meeting. Administration Report • Nomination of Board members and notice of General Meeting 55 Report on the business Environmental Care Environmental Care focuses on the Group’s responsibility to continually strive to reduce the negative impact on the environment from its own operations and those of its suppliers. BeyondZero combines this with the strategy to improve customers’ environmental performance through products and solutions that reduce environmental impact. A company like SKF can have an important impact on the environment. environmental life cycle management. This is something the Group Everything from the raw materials selected, how these are utilized has invested in and built up over the last ten years through numerous and processed, the energy used by SKF’s products when running in life cycle assessments and focused applied research and development customers installations, to the way in which products are disposed in this area. of when they come to the end of their useful life. In 2011, SKF invested SEK 65 million (121) on internal and external To SKF this means that every stage in the value chain presents environmental improvements. the possibility to reduce environmental impact. Doing so not only addresses SKF’s responsibility towards society and future gener­ SKF EHS Policy, legal and regulatory compliance ations, it also enhances the businesses ability to do more with less SKF’s EHS Policy describes the company’s commitment to both shortand so creates sustained competitive advantage. and long-term contributions in protecting the environment, as well as The BeyondZero strategy reflects this. It requires action to reduce providing a safe working environment for employees. the impacts resulting from SKF’s operations and those of suppliers The policy requires SKF’s units to take these vital issues into con­ (reducing the negatives) while at the same time providing customers sideration during all business activities and decision-making. It with innovative solutions that deliver reductions in the impact of their defines a minimum requirement that all locally applicable laws and products (increasing the positives). More details of SKF’s BeyondZero regulations must be upheld in relation to environmental, health and customer solutions can be found in the Business Care section on page safety matters. The policy also commits the organization to continual 19 in this report. This Environmental Care section of the report will improvement – meaning the legal requirements are the base from focus on strategies and activities aimed at reducing the environmental which actual performance must be improved. impact of SKF’s operations and those of the Group’s suppliers. Environmental care starts “in our own backyard”. In 1989 the Group • Environmental permits increased its focus on operations by issuing the Environmental, Health Operations requiring permits exist in all countries where SKF has and Safety Policy (EHS policy). The Group became the first interna­ manufacturing. In Sweden, on 31 December 2011, SKF held permits tional bearing manufacturer to receive global certification according to covering 9.2 % of the Group’s overall production volume for its oper­ the ISO 14001 Environmental Management System in 1998. Since ations at Gothenburg, Katrineholm and Hofors. The permits relate to then, SKF has been building on these foundations by continually taking production of bearings, bearing housings and couplings. SKF Mekan steps which address environmental impacts at different stages of the in Katrineholm received a new environmental permit in 2011. Part product life cycle, and the entire value chain of the business. The of the Gothenburg facilities where divested during the year and sub­ steps taken and planned are informed by a solid understanding of se­quently removed from the existing permit. 56 Administration Report • Environmental Care • Landfills Many SKF factories have disposed of various types of waste at approved landfill sites. Because of stricter laws and regulations – some with a retroactive effect – relating to landfill disposal, a few SKF companies are currently involved in cleaning up old landfills, most of which have not been used for many years. Relevant provisions have been made to cover these costs. • Spill incidents SKF received no significant directives from the environmental author­ ities in 2011. However, SKF has communicated with the local environ­ mental authorities in Gothenburg, Sweden, regarding three incidents. SKF in Falconer have also communicated one incident to the local environmental authorities in New York state (US). All of SKF’s major facilities are designed and constructed according to the stringent green building standard, LEED, (the US Green Building Council’s ISO 14001 Environmental Management System Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design standard). The purpose of having global certification is that all SKF’s manufac­ It is important for SKF to incorporate energy efficiency, water efficiency and turing sites, technical and engineering centres, as well as logistics waste management at the early stage of a building’s design and construction. centres, are required to maintain and uphold high performance Other benefits include better indoor environmental quality, which in turn improves the employees’ performance and comfort. standards regardless of geographical locations or social and economic conditions in the country. The SKF Group-wide certificate consisted of 103 sites in 30 coun­ tries at the end of 2011. New companies that were added to the Group’s ISO 14001 certificate in 2011 were: Changshan (China), Xinchang (China), Ahmedabad (India), Moscow (Russia), Istanbul environmental performance. Therefore in 2010 SKF’s Group Manage­ (Turkey) Waukegan (US) Monroe (US), and Livingston (UK). ment defined that all major constructions (over 1,000 m2) undertaken The Grafton site in the US was removed from the certificate due for, or by, the Group, must be designed and constructed in accordance to divestment. with the US Green Building Council’s (USGBC®) “Leadership in Energy Recently acquired companies are given a time frame for imple­ and Environmental Design” (LEED) or similar standard. menting the management system, working towards inclusion in the During 2011, SKF has run eleven construction projects around the Group’s certification scope. The schedule for recently acquired com­ world and these are at various levels of completion. All of these projects panies’ inclusion plan can be found at www.skf.com. Environmental are following the LEED standard and the levels achieved will be due diligence investigations are carried out to determine whether a announced by the Group upon completion. clean-up is required before any acquisition or divestment. Potential Because LEED is a generic standard, inevitably it does not cover all liabilities identified by a preliminary (Phase I) investigation may be the environmental issues specifically related to typical SKF manufac­ subject to a further (Phase II) investigation. turing processes. As the environmental impact of these processes can be significant, the company is also developing an SKF-specific category, LEED and Sustainable Factory Rating referred to as the “Sustainable Factory Rating” (SFR), which will follow SKF requires that, irrespective of the location, all new facilities must the format and general approach outlined in LEED, but will address be designed and constructed to world-class standards in terms of specific SKF process-related aspects. Biomass plant in St. Cyr In December 2011, a new biomass boiler was inaugurated at SKF’s production facility in St. Cyr, France. This new plant provides building and process heat and gives a 35% reduction to the factory’s CO2 emissions. Administration Report • Environmental Care 57 The SFR has been applied on a pilot basis on two new factories The results of these concerted efforts at all SKF facilities in terms being built in 2011 (planned to be inaugurated in 2012). The results of energy efficiency can be seen in the graph below. The Group’s abso­ have been positive, and the system will be further developed by using lute annual energy requirements have been reduced by 12% during a it on the major projects planned for 2012. period between 2002 and 2010 when SKF’s business (net sales) grew by around 45%. Climate change Despite this impressive performance in terms of energy efficiency, Once again in 2011, SKF continued its clear focus on climate change the Group’s commitment to achieving absolute reductions in carbon mitigation, a focus which was first applied back in 2002 and which has emissions resulting from the energy used in the factories, has become been further sharpened and increased in the intervening years. In increasingly challenging to maintain. Despite increased sourcing of 2012, the Group will take further, more aggressive steps aimed at green and low carbon energy in those markets where this is available, maximizing the contribution SKF makes to the global efforts to reduce SKF’s rapid organic expansion in manufacturing capacity in countries greenhouse gas emissions. SKF’s motivation for this continued and where green energy is not readily available and where most electricity increasing commitment can be summarized in three points. is generated from coal, has overshadowed energy and carbon savings. • Climate change presents a critical long-term challenge to humanity Because of these challenges, and in order to maintain the Group’s and the natural environment. Failure to address it will have cata­ commitment to absolute carbon reductions, it was necessary for SKF strophic long-term consequences for both. to purchase verified emission reduction (VER) certificates in 2010 and • Energy prices are likely to increase, not only as a result of resource 2011. The impact of these purchases are shown in the graph below. constraints, but also due to carbon pricing. SKF’s ability to run its Taking the purchase of VERs into account, the 2011 total emissions activities in an exceptionally energyand carbon-efficient way will were 424,000 tonnes, a 6% reduction compared to 2010, meaning increasingly bring competitive advantage. that the Group target of 5% absolute reduction has been achieved. • SKF is uniquely positioned to significantly contribute to climate Over the last six years, the 5% absolute reduction target has acted change mitigation through the products and solutions it provides and as a strong catalyst for change at SKF. As the results show, having in so doing create considerable value for customers and investors. such a tough and uncompromising target has led to a greater focus on energy and carbon, which in turn has driven investments, priorities Continued commitment to action on climate change and the development of relevant skills at the company. However, this As with other aspects of the Group’s environmental impact, when target cannot be sustained over the long-term, mainly because the acting to reduce global carbon emissions, SKF followed the principle of greater production activities in high carbon regions will mean that in “starting in our own back yard”. The direct ownership and manage­ future, the major contribution to its achievement can only come from ment of SKF’s facilities gives the company absolute responsibility and buying offsets. This risks taking the focus away from energy use – the direct power to minimize the carbon emissions associated with which is the most important direct contribution which SKF can make direct energy use. Therefore, in 2002 the Group set up energy and to climate change mitigation at its own manufacturing operations. carbon reporting systems for its own facilities and defined clear Therefore the Group has decided to focus directly on energy use targets to reduce these emissions by 2007. within its operations with extremely aggressive targets which will Having already achieved these first targets in 2005, 2006 saw the address both energy use per output and total energy use. launch of a broader, more aggressive strategy and targets, requiring With these targets, SKF will assure an even higher pressure and an absolute reduction in carbon emissions resulting from direct focus on improving energy performance irrespective of the external energy use in SKF facilities of 5% per year – irrespective of volume economic climate. development. This new target has been delivered year after year by a The targets will be announced within the second quarter of 2012. strategy focused on reducing energy intensity in the factories and the carbon intensity of the energy used. Result for 2011 scope 1rate Accident 2 carbon andfor the SKF dioxide Group emissions Energy use (metric tonnes) Result Energy use GWh Target Net sales SEKm Purchased offsets GWh SEKm 00,000 Tonnes of CO2 2,500 70,000 60,000 560,000 2,000 50,000 520,000 1,500 40,000 480,000 40 K 80 K 1,000 30,000 20,000 440,000 500 10,000 400,000 0 0 06 07 08 09 10 11 02 03 04 05 06 07 08 09 10 11 Format 100x33 42x33 mm 80 02 03 04 05 06 07 08 09 10 11 80 58 Administration Report • Environmental Care 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 % of shipped weight per transport mode Q4 2010 % of carbon emission per transport mode Q4 2010 to Q3 2011 to Q3 2011 0.3% 2.4% 1.5% • Road 22.6% • Road 35.1% • Ocean • Ocean • Express • Express • Air 16.4% • Air 63.1% 58.6% Between 2006 and 2010 the Group also included other indirect Transportation emissions resulting from its operations. The company defined targets SKF Logistics Services reports on emissions resulting from global air and started external and internal reporting of the carbon emissions freight, sea freight and the express and road transportation networks resulting from business travel, outbound logistics, and some aspects within the European Union. Road transportation in markets outside of component and material supply. Europe has not yet been included due to the difficulties of obtaining reliable data from logistics providers in these locations. The reporting Business travel period is from Q4 2010 to Q3 2011 due to complexities in gathering The total CO2 emissions from air travel in 2011 amounted to 19,870 data. The monitoring includes emissions of carbon dioxide (CO2), (18,680) tonnes, which is a small increase compared to 2010. Business carbon monoxide (CO), nitrogen dioxide (NO2), sulphur dioxide (SO2), travel is a necessary activity for a multinational organization like SKF, particles (PM) and hydrocarbons (HC). and one that inevitably results in CO2 emissions. The global nature of During the period from Q4 2010 to Q3 2011 the CO2 emissions the Group means that air travel accounts for by far the largest CO2 from SKF Logistics Services transportations within the scope emissions in business travel. described was 57,800 tonnes while the shipped weight was 532,795 In 2008, SKF started to monitor CO2 emissions from its European tonnes. The shipped weight in 2010 was 401,270 tonnes and CO2 and US air travel. Data from other regions has not yet been included emission was 46,300 tonnes. because multiple travel agencies are used in these regions, making One important performance indicator for SKF Logistic Services is reliable data collection very difficult. SKF is a global company and CO2 per tonne-kilometre. This is a relative indicator that shows CO2 meeting in person is often an important contributing factor in estab­ emissions in grams relative to shipped weight (tonnes) and distance lishing effective global collaboration. However, the need for travel is (kilometre). SKF’s target is to reduce this indicator by 5% each year. In always questioned and when alternative (electronic) ways of meeting 2011, CO2 per tonne-kilometre was reduced by 11% compared to pre­ are appropriate they are used. SKF makes extensive use of web and vious year. This large reduction in CO2 per tonne-kilometre is mainly video conferencing systems. In 2011 over 68,000 (43,000) web associated with increased use of sea freight, this being by far the most meetings were held. The video conferencing facilities installed in many efficient way of shipping goods over far distances relative to weight of SKF’s offices were used 7,220 hours (6,251). and emissions. All transport modes increased overall. New standard of efficient energy use at SKF in Steyr SKF Austria’s energy project at Steyr has reduced CO2 emissions connected to energy use by the equivalent of 800 tonnes per year. This is a long-term project and further improvement will be made over the next five years. A number of installations were included in the project: • A new 1,000 kW heat pump has been installed to optimize heating and cooling recovery. This collects excess heat from several central systems. The heat is used for heating the internal air and shower water. • Essential parts of the heating distribution system have been replaced including hydraulic circuits with valves, actuators and pumps. • The entire site’s energy flow is more transparent and well-monitored using EMC (Energy monitoring and controlling), which is the basis for effectively reducing energy use. • Ventilation fans with frequency converters in Central Hall 2. There is a demand-oriented air flow control in the production hall. • Water from the nearby River Enns flowing through the heat-venting system results in a soft air-conditioning effect. This means that during summer, a better (cooler) working environment can be achieved with very little energy required. • From 2011, Steyr has sourced 100% low-carbon energy from hydropower. Also, all employees will receive information and training about the efficient use of energy, to support this project sustainably. Administration Report • Environmental Care 59 Energy conservation in Airasca, Italy Approximate Annual savings CO2 (metric tonnes) At SKF’s factory in Airasca, a significant Compressed air pressure reduction 90 energy conservation programme has been Cut air leakages and sustain improvements 37 carried out. The project group assessed Install high efficiency motors in the factory’s air handling units 14 where the best improvements could be Install high efficiency motors in fluid media pumping stations 36 made, these include: Adapt grinding water and plant layout to real needs 44 Simplify and optimize washing fluids plant 20 Install low energy lighting system in specific channels 1 New drying process 59 Modify lighting equipment specific channel layout 7 Total 308 As with all the Group’s operations, SKF Logistics Services has a clear Another example is the request concerning suppliers’ truck fleets focus on reducing energy use and related carbon emissions that result being renewed to achieve improved Euro class engines resulting in from their activities. One specific example of actions is that all truck less emissions. transportation from the factory in Gothenburg to the harbour are now made using trucks running exclusively on biogas and biodiesel. This has Clean Shipping reduced the CO2 emissions related to this task by 70%. The Clean Shipping index takes into account the major part of environ­ In 2011 the work to increase the fill rate in European road network mental effects connected to shipping, such as emissions to air and continued to bring positive results. The truck fill rate rose from 77% water, use of chemicals etc. The index ranks vessels or shipping comin 2010 to 81% in 2011 and this improved the CO2 emission factor for panies according to the most relevant issue, decided by the user. road transport by 10%. The following activities have contributed to The index supports SKF Logistics Services as a cargo owner, to find the result: shipping companies with the best performance regarding CO2 • Improved planning and loading of trucks emissions. • Constantly optimizing the routing of trucks • Increased attention to “the 10 tonne rule”, e.g. a truck will not Outsourced components and raw materials depart with less than 10 tonnes loaded onboard SKF continued to emphasize the importance of energy use and related • Implemented incentives, which motivate shipping units to optimize CO2 emissions to the Group’s suppliers during 2011. SKF focuses on the fill rate of all departing trucks. major energy-intensive suppliers who are required to report energy In addition, SKF Logistics Services has increased the environmental and carbon data and provide information about energy management demands on suppliers by including some parameters in the commercial at their sites. This information is then used as part of the supplier percontracts. formance evaluation. For more information about SKF’s standard for An example is fuel consumption. Stating the agreed fuel consumption suppliers see section about sourcing and supply chain on page 45. in the contracts, which in turn regulates the fuel cost, has proved effective. It gives suppliers incentives to apply eco-driving and invest Other important environmental aspects in modern equipment to minimize fuel consumption. This was introAs well as CO2 emissions, SKF measures, reports and manages other duced in 2010, but is reviewed annually. Reduced fuel consumption environmental aspects which are material to the Group. A brief overview of 1 litre per 100 km means a 1.6% reduction in CO2 emissions. of these aspects is provided in the following paragraphs. For specific Solar array at SKF USA’s head office in Lansdale SKF USA’s LEED certified facility in Lansdale has finished installing on-site solar power generation. It has been about a year since the site was awarded platinum certification by the US Green Building Council. The solar array is expected to provide around 30% of the total power requirement of the site or around 500,000 kWh per year. The solar array system, with 1,468 installed solar panels, became fully operational in April 2011. 60 Administration Report • Environmental Care Award winning washing method without use of chemicals SKF in Germany has developed flood washing a washing method In addition to eliminating chemical use the method brings benefits eliminating most of the chemicals traditionally found in industrial such as: washing processes. The innovation was recognized externally • Low temperature water – requiring little or no heating. and awarded with “Environmental Idea of the Year 2011” by • No steam – requiring no extra exhaust system. Deutsches Institut für Ideenund Innovationsmanagement. • Low water pressure – 2.2 kW pumps for the flood washers It works by pumping rainwater at a low pressure in a recircu­l­ ­compared to 7.5 kW for spray nozzle washers. ation system to flood polluted parts of a perforated box. The system uses up to 200 cubic metres of water per hour, which is collected from the 2,500 square metre roof. year-on-year data and explanations to possible restatements, please In 2011 SKF has been working towards eliminating the use of equiprefer to the Notes – environmental performance on pages 138-140 ment containing polychlorinated biphenyl’s (PCB) at all manufacturing and for a more detailed explanation of SKF’s approach to each issue, sites. PCB has been eliminated at all sites except for Lutsk, Ukraine. please refer to “Sustainability in SKF – Policies and practices”, which can A systematic replacement program of transformers containing PCB in be found at skf.com, choose Investors and Reports. Lutsk started in 2011. At the end of the year most of the transformers were replaced, the rest will be replaced during 2012. Material consumption SKF uses various materials such as metal, rubber, solvents, hydraulic Ozone depleting substances oil and grease. The use of metal as raw material for 2011 decreased SKF has been monitoring its consumption of ozone depleting subby 4% to 523,000 tonnes compared to 2010 (547,000). stances (ODS) for many years by referring to the Montreal Protocol. The Group is continually working to improve resource efficiency. Consumption has steadily fallen over the years, supported by a The company invests in research into advanced manufacturing number of local phase-out projects. Overall, the most harmful ODSs ­technology that minimizes the amount of material to be removed have either been substituted with less harmful ones or the usage has to produce finished products. At the same time, SKF’s designers, been totally eliminated due to process changes in manufacturing. ­process engineers and purchasing staff are constantly working towards minimizing material waste throughout the value chain. REACH The EU Regulation on the Registration, Evaluation, Authorization and Chemical use Restrictions of Chemical substances (REACH) was adopted by the Solvents, referred to as volatile organic compounds (VOCs), form European Parliament and Council of Ministers in December 2006. vapours which can be damaging to health and the environment. SKF The provisions of this regulation came into force in June 2007. introduced a VOC reduction target of 25% over a five-year period, comSKF is predominately a downstream user (as opposed to a propared to 2002’s level and in relation to production volumes. This target ducer) of chemicals as defined in the regulation and is complying by was successfully achieved in 2007 with a drop of 29% compared to communicating both up and down the supply chain. This is to ensure 2002’s level, while the production volume rose by more than 30%. that chemicals used in SKF’s products and manufacturing are regisA new, tougher target was therefore set where SKF aims to achieve a tered and safe to use. A designated steering group was formed to 50% reduction in absolute terms by 2012, compared to 2007’s level. communicate REACH demands inside and outside the company. Substantial progress has been made since 2007. The use of VOC’s This includes supplier contacts to verify compliance regarding use in 2011 was just below 850 tonnes. of chemical substances, and customer contacts to ensure compliance of SKF’s products and activities. Metal as raw material Use of Volatile Organic Compound, as raw Metal('000 material (’000 tonnes) tonnes) Use ofVOC (tonne) volatile organic compounds, VOC (tonnes) 1,900 1,600 800 2,000 625 602 572 547 1,400 523 600 1,500 1,100 1,150 387 400 1,000 850 200 500 0 0 06 07 08 09 10 11 06 07 08 09 10 11 Administration Report • Environmental Care 61 42x33 mm 42x33 mm Innovative water treatment in Ahmedabad The SKF factory in Ahmedabad, India is designed and built to achieve • Process water: All water from process media is recycled using world-class environmental performance. Like other recently built SKF vacuum distillation, ensuring zero discharge. facilities, it has been built according to LEED standard. • Domestic water: A sewage treatment plant ensures 100% In an area where water is scarce like Ahmedabad, water use can r­ ecyc­ling. A softening plant, active coal process and ultraviolet have a significant impact on the local environment and community. treatment, guarantees recycling of all water and satisfies both Therefore, SKF has deployed state-of-the-art technology at this process and drinking water requirements. ­facility to minimize water use, take full advantage of rainwater and • Use of high efficiency and LEED compliant water fixtures: usage ­re-use almost all the process water. The systems include: efficiency. • Rain water harvesting: 350,000 litres can be collected during the • Irrigation water: Use of native plant species has reduced the monsoon season. plant species’ water requirement. Automated sprinklers further improve efficiency. Water use and discharge As the majority of SKF’s factories are located in industrial zones, water, for its grinding swarf by 2012. The 2011 recycling percentage of to a large extent, is supplied by municipalities. Thus, SKF monitors grinding swarf Group-wide was 68%. total water consumption at operating units and not according to water Some SKF units have taken the initiative to donate money from withdrawal by source. Water consumption by the Group in 2011 was waste recycling to support local charities. 5.58 million cubic metres, compared with 5.65 million cubic metres in 2010 (restated from last year). Packaging materials SKF has established specific targets for reducing water consumption SKF has very strict specifications and requirements concerning applicable to sites located in areas of water scarcity. One example is packaging materials and the packaging process. As defined in its SKF Sealing Solutions’ factory in Salt Lake City, Utah, USA, an area of Packaging Standard instruction S9, all packaging materials must extreme water scarcity, where the water use has been reduced by 50% comply with environmental and waste disposal legislation such as between the years 2007-2011, while production has increased by 20%. EU Directive 94/62/EC, as well as with local laws and requirements. One important feature of SKF’s global environmental management Specifications and requirements about the type of packaging system is to ensure that all operating SKF units are compliant to local ­materials and related products are also defined in the standard. rules and legislation. This includes waste water handling. Many units SKF’s Group Standard Pallet (GSP) box – pallet base, lid and collar have also introduced closed-loop water consumption or installed – is the most common shipping container used by SKF, both internally waste water treatment facilities, such as in the case from Ahmedabad and externally. These pallets have a lifetime of 7-10 years, and are in India above. used and reused in all inbound and outbound shipments. SKF Logistics Services provides component suppliers with GSPs Waste management/recycling and the same transport packaging is used when products are finally All SKF units are aiming to minimize waste and increase recycling, shipped to customers. Reusing the same transport packaging elimi­ for both environmental and cost reasons. All scrap metal from SKF’s nates waste. For each pallet there is a returnable deposit which is operations is recycled, totalling 103,000 tonnes in 2011. refunded when the pallet boxes are returned to SKF Logistic Services. A common waste product from SKF’s manufacturing process is grinding swarf. SKF aims at achieving at least an 80% recycling rate Water consumption Metal as raw material Water (million (million usecubic cubic metres) metres) ('000swarf Grinding recycling rate (%) tonnes) * Restatement from last year 10 80 70 68 65 67 64 67 7.6 8 7.1 7.0 6.9 5.7* 60 5.6 6 40 4 2 20 0 0 06 07 08 09 10 11 06 07 08 09 10 11 Administration Report • Environmental Care 62 42x33 mm 42x33 mm Report on the business Employee Care Employee Care assures a safe working environment and promotes the health, education and wellbeing of SKF’s employees. SKF’s leadership has been established over many years through Zero Accidents and OHSAS 18001 the commitment, knowledge and passion of the Group’s employees SKF launched the Zero Accidents target in 2000 with the commitment around the world. The companys’ ability to attract, retain and develop to strive for eliminating all workplace accidents at SKF. The belief that its employees is therefore absolutely critical for maintaining this accidents are preventable and that an accident-free work environment ­leadership. When SKF’s personnel can understand that the company is achievable, has resulted in substantial progress over the years. cares about and for them, then it stands to reason that people will 120 out of 218 SKF units worldwide achieved no recorded accidents care about SKF and its long-term future. This is the essence of for a minimum of four consecutive quarters at the end of 2011. employee care. 2011’s accident rate was 1.05, significantly lower in comparison to The fundamental requirements for SKF are to assure a safe 13.78 in 1994 when SKF started monitoring it. ­working environment where employee’s rights on principles such as Accident rate for the SKF Group equality, fairness and freedom of association are protected. Over the years various tools and processes such as the SKF Code of Conduct Accident rate for the SKF Group compliance audits, the SKF Code of Conduct whistle-blower process and works councils, have been implemented across the Group to ensure that this commitment is observed. 2.0 1.72 1.53 1.54 Over and above these basic demands, the SKF Code of Conduct 1.29 1.5 1.18 also requires that the Group must strive to provide employees with 1.05 opportunities to train for job enrichment and greater responsibility. 1.0 The principles of employee care were well demonstrated during the 0.5 economic downturn which occurred in 2009. During this period SKF took particular care to minimize the number and impact of job losses 0 06 07 08 09 10 11 that resulted from the restructuring required. Working with employee representatives and governments, it was possible to utilize flexible working agreements, short-time working and other schemes – The accident rate for the Group is calculated using the formula: thereby keeping the number of employees asked to leave the Group Accident rate = R x 200,000 / H, where R = number of recordable accidents and to a minimum. H = total hours worked at the site/company 42x33 mm 80 80 Administration Report • Employee Care 63 All new employees are subject to health and safety training. risk assessment tool was introduced in 2008 with the purpose of R ­ egular hazard and risk assessments of working environments are helping prioritize the selection of units to be audited. In 2011 audits also a mandatory part of OHSAS 18001 certification. At the end of were conducted at 29 units, of which fifteen were in Europe, eleven in 2011, the certificate covered 103 sites in 30 countries. Asia, one in the US, and two in Latin America. The audits showed nine It is with the deepest regret that SKF must advise that two fatal non-compliances with the Code of Conduct; six of these were also accidents occurred during 2011. One of the incidents happened in legal non-compliances. Three of the legal non-compliances were China when one SKF employee was involved in a road traffic accident related to working hours, two to gender and age discrimination, and while returning from a customer activity. The second incident occurred in one to mandatory payment for marriage leave. The three other nonthe heat treatment department at SKF’s factory in Hanover, PA, (USA). compliances were related to freedom of association, and a lack of employee training and development plans. Corrective actions were Human rights and labour standards taken in all cases. Upholding and protecting human rights principles and labour stand­ A strictly confidential whistle-blowing process is also available for ards are of the utmost importance to SKF. Formulating business eth­ all employees to report behaviour or action breaching the Code of ics into official documents enables systematic compliance assessment Conduct, by sending an email to the company’s whistle-blower ­ and risk identification. Consequently, SKF published the SKF Code of contact person. This is addressed for the attention of the Senior Vice Conduct in 2002, covering its responsibilities towards its stakehold­ President, People and Business Excellence. Immediate action is taken ers, and the policy is applicable to all operations worldwide. The policy accordingly by SKF on all complaints received. has also been used as a reference to establish other documents such Issues relating to significant changes at SKF, such as acquiring or as the SKF Code of Conduct for Suppliers and Sub-contractors, and divesting operations, are always discussed and resolved in an open the SKF Code of Conduct for Distributors, demanding similar high and constructive atmosphere with union leaders locally and at the levels of commitment from business partners. For more information World and European Works Councils. SKF signed an International about the SKF Code of Conduct and adherence to international Framework Agreement on labour standards and human rights with its principles and charters, please refer to the document “Sustainability World Works Council in 2003. There is an active and positive coopera­ in SKF – Policies and Practices” found on www.skf.com. tion between company management and the union leadership to A code of conduct audit system was established in 2004 with the ensure a high standard of adherence. As part of the due diligence aim of ensuring that SKF units globally have sound monitoring sys­ process for major acquisitions, SKF evaluates various people issues tems in place for complying with this policy. Audits are performed such as human rights and labour rights. The precise approach must annually on a sample of units throughout the Group. A non-financial be adapted to the specific conditions of each acquisition. Growing with SKF SKF is an employer that puts people SKF has a reputation as a company that SKF shows commitment – to employ­ first. Internal initiatives such as the looks for continual improvement. After ees, society and the environment. It’s a Competence Development Program four years at SKF, it’s clear to me that if people-oriented company committed and other educational opportunities I am ambitious and take responsibility to innovation, knowledge engineering are a great platform to build a suc­ for my own development, there are and ultimately, customer satisfaction. cessful career. Here in China, SKF has many possibilities available. In other words, it’s a great place to a bright future – and I want to continue build a career if you’re ambitious and Christian Tovar, Colombia to be part of the team that contributes really care about what you do. to this. Paula Bonaglia, Argentina Holly Chen, China 64 Administration Report • Employee Care In addition to the survey tool above, SKF also collects employee data SKF in Busan, Korea, recognized externally annually in terms of retention rate, diversity (units with women in for accident prevention local management), independent trade unions, freedom of association SKF received first prize in the Industrial Safety best and health and safety committees. The data is compiled from all manu­ practice contest sponsored by the Federation of Korean facturing sites, technical and research centres, as well as logistics Trade Union & Korea Safety Agency in December 2011. centres, and is aggregated at Group and regional levels. The award was given to SKF for continuous efforts to The percentage of employees in full-time employment was 97% in identify and implement improvements which prevent 2011, while the retention rate of employees was 94%. At the end of accidents. 2011, 30% of the Board of Directors and 21% of SKF’s Group Manage­ The annual national contest was created to share best ment positions were held by women. Locally, 76% of SKF units have at practices regarding safety culture and performance. In least one woman in local management. Total number of female man­ total, six companies were nominated to the final stage. agers in local management throughout SKF was 17% (the proportion of female employees in the Group was 21%). SKF has 66 country managers globally and they represent 49 nationalities. Cultural diversity is valued by the company as it recruits, Working environment develops and promotes the best local resources for managing its local SKF carries out an annual employee survey called the Working Climate and global business units. Cultural diversity is also endorsed when Analysis (WCA) globally, with the aim of continuously improving the employees are offered international assignments or training abroad. working environment. WCA measures employees’ feedback on the Job openings at SKF worldwide are posted on the intranet. Employ­ company’s performance in relation to the company’s values and key ees are entitled to a fair and open application to the positions. focus areas, such as business, sustainability and knowledge sharing. SKF’s salary scheme is based on a fair and equal calculation and the The tool also provides an indication in terms of trust, cooperation, ratio of male to female salaries is available at the local units, but not personal development and continuous improvement in the teams aggregated at Group level. or departments. Follow-up discussions are subsequently held by For more data on social performance and year-on-year data please managers with their teams, with the purpose of identifying and read the notes on social performance on page 140-141. ­implementing improvement plans. In 2011, the response rate for the WCA was 85.3% (85.8%). A slight Health and fitness increase in the average overall result was found compared to 2010. SKF aims at not only providing a safe working environment for its employ­ The results are presented in 14 different focus areas and in all areas ees, but also deems it to be important to promote health and fitness. there were a small increase from last year. SKF’s global reach has an obvious positive affect on team­ I’ve always had access to outstanding training and coaching work and the cooperative dynamic. In my projects I interact opportunities. These have helped me live up to the com­ with customers from Italy, France, Germany and the USA. pany’s expectations and my own. For example, the Indi­ I also have colleagues from France, Sweden, Poland, Italy, vidu­al Development Plan the company offers has allowed India, China, Turkey and the Netherlands. What this does me to discuss my career and my experiences with SKF is create a feeling of togetherness. People of different cul­ Management. Also, I took part in an international program tures and backgrounds come together at SKF and I believe called “Business Factory” aimed at developing our offer this spirit of international cooperation is one of the main on new markets. These programs, along with many others reasons behind SKF’s success – I know it is one of the main I’ve undertaken, have allowed me to constantly develop, reasons why I enjoy going to work every day! manage people effectively and lead change. Salahi Basaran, Netherlands Laure Le Calve, France Administration Report • Employee Care 65 26% of SKF’s manufacturing sites, technical and research centres To meet the goal of making learning affordable to all SKF organiza­ as well as logistics centres, have HIV/Aids programmes. Previous tions, which is particularly challenging in some of the fast growing Sustainability Reports and the company website have reported vari­ markets, the aim is to have more programmes based on concepts ous HIV/Aids programmes set up by SKF, in countries such as South owned or leased by SKF, which can easily be replicated with local Africa and Indonesia. internal or external resources as trainers. The establishment of SKF A variety of other Employee Care programmes are offered in various College campuses in USA, Argentina, China and India, in addition to countries including free access to third party counselling, childcare the campus in Sweden, is enabling SKF’s global curriculum to be services, access to fitness facilities, household services, and regular locally adapted, and provided in local languages by local trainers. This health-checks by professional medical staff. In many countries, paid reduces the need for travelling long distances, being away from work volunteer work is also included as part of the Employee Care pro­ and family, as well as the high cost of hiring foreign trainers. gramme where employees are either given one paid-day to work on As part of the talent management initiatives, the Global Leadership Community Care projects or the Community Care programme is incor­ Programme, a long-term development process for future leaders, has porated into company activities. See the Community Care section for been redesigned and relaunched to ensure that its content reflects further information about SKF’s Community Care programmes. current business needs. The objective of all the talent management programmes is to develop future leaders for the SKF Group and to Learning and development enhance global leadership performance. All SKF employees are entitled to an Individual Development Plan (IDP), which is reviewed annually through discussions with their man­ Human Resources Transformation project agers. Each individual’s skills profile is assessed according to the job During 2011 SKF steadily moved forward with the Human Resources profile in the review discussion. Training plans for the employee’s skills (HR) Transformation programme, which started in 2010. improvement and further development are subsequently listed in the A new IT tool (the SKF People Portal) has enabled the Group to roll IDP and is supported by a common system. out new performance management and competence management Corresponding to the Group’s strategic goals, an assortment of processes. People management is a critical issue and these processes development programmes focusing on professional skills (e.g. sales and will help SKF managers to continue doing an excellent job. New marketing, engineering, products and platforms, demand chain, manu­ recruitment and talent management processes have also been devel­ facturing), leadership skills, personal skills (e.g. negotiation skills, com­ oped and are being introduced country by country. This work is critical munication skills, time management), and other strategic areas such as because having the right people with the right skills, where and when Six Sigma, quality, legal and finance, are made available to employees. they are needed, is vital to the Group’s success going forward. The Utilizing different technological tools and methods – web conferen­ International Assignment process was extensively upgraded during cing, e-learning, classroom setting, group work, projects, and coaching 2011, to meet the current and future needs of the SKF Group. – SKF’s learning and development programmes aim at enhancing the The HR Transformation programme will continue in 2012 aimed at quality in learning for employees. Managers’ involvement and support establishing one SKF HR agenda that runs throughout the Group and through coaching is important for employees to achieve sustained which is enabled by common processes, a consolidated, common IT personal, professional and behavioural development. platform and a new way of working in the HR function which allows greater focus on key strategic issues. Sommerkinder – family support in Schweinfurt SKF in Schweinfurt, Germany has initiated a childcare scheme, with external partners, for the local summer holidays called “Sommerkinder” (summer kids). During the kindergartens’ and schools’ summer holiday, many of our employees are faced with a difficult organizational challenge: “How do we ensure that our children are well looked after during the holiday season as well?” Since 2008, “Sommerkinder” has been the solution to this issue in Schweinfurt. Children from the ages of 3-12 can have four weeks of day care during the summer holidays and spend their days close to SKF’s premises if their parents have to work. SKF pays 50% of the costs of this day care. 66 Administration Report • Employee Care Report on the business Community Care Community Care defines the Group’s activities which make positive contributions to the communities in which it operates. The SKF Social Policy The SKF Social Policy was issued in 2006 with the aim of promoting various local charities, as well as for sports, cultural or educational employees’ involvement in commendable local social projects. Since events. More than SEK 6 million was donated to help underprivileged 2008, every country management team has been asked to prepare people or victims of natural disasters. The remaining share was of and submit an annual Community Care plan. As a basis for the Com­ ­in-kind giving and volunteered working hours. munity Care plan, local management must assess and define the sup­ With this policy, SKF employees around the word are fully emport that best caters for the local society’s needs and contributes to powered to engage with their local communities through various socially the community’s development. 26 countries submitted Community beneficial activities and approaches. The commitment demonstrated Care reports in 2011. Out of a total quantifiable contribution of SEK by SKF’s employees taking up this challenge is impressive. Over 200 20 million, SEK 12 million was made up of financial sponsorship to activities are ongoing around SKF’s world. The number and diverse Japan – SKF people volunteer after the earthquake and tsunami in Ayukawa The fishing village of Ayukawa lost all its fishing enterprises and essential infrastructure as ­a result of the devastating earthquake and tsunami in the spring of 2011. 80% of its houses and buildings were wiped out by the wave and the population was severely hit. Nine months after the devastation, SKF volunteers went to Ayukawa with people from the volunteer organization NADIA, to help clean up the mess from the tsunami. It was quite a physical job and there the devastating effects of the tsunami on this area could be understood. What was seen of the Ishinomaki area was simply beyond belief, according to the participants. Even though heavily reported in the media, the magnitude and nature of the damage still made it very difficult to grasp the full sequence of events. The need to clean up and rebuild is still there, and will remain for many years to come. Administration Report • Community Care 67 Update on the SKF Forest project in Fuxin county, China This five-year SKF project, started in 2010, is committed to creating and sharing sustain­a ble forestry management in line with the Forest Stewardship Council’s (FSC) ten principles on sustainable forestry, to meet the social, economic, eco­ logical, cultural and spiritual needs of present and future generations. It was con­cluded in the joint inspection report that the 2010 and 2011 projects have been successful and the sites are now in good conditions. • 2010 – 260.7 hectares of forest were planted and the survival rate was verified at 90.6% after testing in 2011. • 2011 – 106.7 hectares were planted and the survival rate was verified at 98.3% in 2011. The project invested money and energy in creating knowledge of forest planting and management, including technical implementation, site verification, and weather monitoring. In addition, the project creates around 50 job opportunities during planting season in the two nearby villages that allow the villagers to increase their income and learn modern techinques in forest management. range of community care programmes truly shows how great the Education and vocational training demand is from the local society, but also the high motivation which SKF appreciates the importance of knowledge and aspires to be the SKF employees have to contribute to a positive change. A few examples knowledge engineering company and subsequently a competitive can be found in this report, for further examples please see previous leader in the industry. Equally significant is knowledge or education in reports or go to skf.com . eradicating poverty. As a result, SKF has been actively involved over the years in providing local communities with access to education and Natural disasters training through scholarships, vocational training, mentorship or In March 2011, Japan was hit by one of the most severe natural sponsoring events. One example is the SKF Hope Schools in China – ­disasters in the country’s history. A magnitude 9 earthquake was a joint activity between all SKF facilities in China. The Hope School ­followed by a devastating tsunami. Over 15,000 people lost their lives project started in 2006 and is meant to create opportunities for less and several thousand are still missing. Many SKF employees were fortunate children, or children living in remote villages, to gain access worried about our Japanese colleagues and thankfully the Japanese to education. management team quickly confirmed that all employees and their Another example that started in 2006and which evolved and devel­ families were safe. oped in 2011, is the Communidade at SKF in Cajamar, Brazil. SKF SKF Japan was in close contact with local government to offer Communidade (SKF Community) was established to provide an SKF’s help to the communities affected. However, because of the opportunity to underprivileged children from the Cajamar region for limited capacity for storing donations in the affected areas, it was mental, social and physical development. SKF Communidade takes decided that the best way SKF could provide help to the locals was place every two months at the SKF Sports Club at the factory. Children through financial donations to aid organizations. from poor communities are invited to the club (and transportation is arranged for them) where they can have fun and learn through creative activities. SKF partners the Four Kings wheelchair rugby team SKF Polska SA started to support the Four Kings wheelchair rugby team in 2010. The Four Kings are a team of more than 20 professional wheelchair rugby players. The dynamic, spectacular sport of rugby is their life and it brings joy, fellowship and quality of life in general. Initially, SKF supported the Four Kings with products and technical expertise. Then, in collaboration with other partners, SKF organized the Mazovia Cup – one of the major wheelchair rugby tournaments in Poland. This two-day high-adrenaline event brought a lot of publicity to disabled sport in the local media. SKF supported the event financially, and helped with the organization, promotional arrangements and finding more partners and sponsors for the team. The Mazovia Cup tournament was just the starting point for promoting the Four Kings and supporting the disabled community. SKF introduced the Four Kings at Poland’s biggest automotive trade fair, where visitors took part in staged rugby matches. The three-day trade fair attracted around 25 thousand visitors. 68 Administration Report • Community Care Cuyamaca Outdoor School in San Diego, California The Cuyamaca (Quee-a-maka) Outdoor School has proved that when children have an opportunity to learn in a natural environment, they gain confidence, improve their social skills, and do better when they return to the classroom. Sixth grade students from schools around San Diego County attend a five-day programme that transforms modern school lessons in science, physics, and astronomy into real world activities. On 16 September 2011, 60 employees from SKF Reliability Systems Condition Monitoring Centre San Diego visited the Cuyamaca Outdoor School to help assist with their revegetation project. The SKF volunteers arrived with their own rakes and ­shovels to help with: • planting trees • watering seedlings • building mesh baskets for future plantings (the mesh baskets protect the roots of newly planted seedlings from animals, such as gophers) • pulling weeds and cleaned up the school’s greenhouse. • pulling non-native plants to prepare for future plantings. This sustainability event was one of those opportunities where SKF was able to support both the community and the environment. In Austria, the Basky Project, (short for Basar SKF City) is trying to countries. Through Meet the World, more teams get the opportunity integrate young adults with a minimum 30% disability (physical, psy­ to come to the Gothia Cup in Gothenburg to play in the greatest youth chological and/or mental) into society, through vocational training. football tournament in the world, with all expenses covered. For more about Basky and other examples of SKF Community Care To learn more about SKF’s Meet the World or the Gothia Cup, programmes in other countries, including India, China, Pakistan, Peru please go to: www.skf.com. the Philippines, and Turkey, please see previous years’ Sustainability A number of SKF organizations are supporting different sport Reports or go to: www.skf.com. ­programmes, especially for those that are physically challenged. SKF in Italy has chosen to support the wheelchair team of HB Torino, and Youth and sports also a wheelchair tennis tournament in Torino. SKF Polska SA on the In 2011, SKF signed a contract renewing its partnership in the Gothia other hand has partnered up with Four Kings wheel chair rugby team. Cup an annual event in Gothenburg for over 30,000 young people. (highlighted below) SKF has been sponsoring the event since 2006 and it is the largest football tournament in the world for boys and girls between the ages Helping to tackle challenges faced by local communities of 11 and 19. HIV and AIDS remains a major challenge in Kenya as it is one of the In many countries there are big differences between the wealthy greatest public health concerns, with around 1.4 million Kenyans and the less privileged. SKF tries to help make things more equal, and living with HIV and AIDS. HIV/AIDS is more than a health issue as it one of the areas where this is truly possible is football. This is the rea­ also impedes a country’s long-term economic and social development. son why SKF started the Meet the World tournaments. Before 2011’s In addition to various programmes offered to local employees – as a Gothia Cup, 19 Meet the World tournaments were held in 18 different member of the Swedish Workplace HIV/AIDS Programme (SWHAP) – Administration Report • Community Care 69 SKF Kenya also formed an association called Neighbours Against Aids Previous prize winners include Al Gore, Gro Harlem Brundtland, (NAA) with other companies in the region. The primary objective of the Forest Stewardship Council and KRAV, the Abahuzamugambi the initiative is to stop the spread of the disease and offer support to Coffee Cooperative from Rwanda and the Toyota engineers, Takeshi those infected and affected. For the first three years after its inception Uchiyamada, Takehisa Yaegashi and Yuichi Fujii, (who developed the in 2002, NAA focused on building HIV/ AIDS awareness among world’s first commercial hybrid vehicle, the Toyota Prius), Ken Sherman employees and their families. The activity gradually broadened to and Randal Arauz, in recognition of their respective work in protecting support local communities, for example, with a feeding programme the ocean and its wildlife. Please visit www.gothenburgaward.com for for forty families in the slums near the SKF office. Medical camps in more information. the less fortunate parts of Nairobi are also helped. In several other countries, such as Canada, the UK and Italy, SKF Shell Eco-marathon has set up paid voluntary schemes for local employees to volunteer in The Shell Eco-marathon is an annual educational project organized local Community Care activities. SKF also organizes food, clothes and by Shell together with other partners such as SKF. The competition book donations and many SKF employees take part in fundraising to aims at promoting higher energy efficiency through innovation and support local charitable and health organizations. In the US for exam­ creativity. Participating teams from different schools and universities ple, many SKF units volunteered for various events such as the Breast ­compete across the world in designing, building and racing to go the Cancer Walk (Hebron), Relay for Life (Flowery Branch, Franklin, furthest distance using the least amount of energy. SKF has been Hobart, Seneca, Gainesville), STEP Foundation (Seneca), Red Cross sponsoring this globally known race for many years, by supporting Blood Drive (Falconer, San Diego), the SKF United Way Campaign competing teams from technical schools and universities with SKF (Flowery Branch, Hanover, Falconer, Elgin, St.Louis) and many more. products and technical services. The event fully reflects the company’s Collectively, SKF factories and offices in the US raised over SEK 1.9 commitment to growth and sustainability while respecting the envir­ million in 2011. onment. In Malaysia, SKF has chosen to support the charitable organization In 2011, the American race took place on 14-17 April in Houston Pusat Hemodialisis Mawar by donating funds for a dialysis machine. at Discovery Green. The European event was held in Lausitzring, The local SKF units always have the empowerment to decide what a ­Germany. Being a partner, SKF Germany provided technical support local community needs most. The different needs in all parts of the to competing teams in the choice and construction of vehicle bearings, world are reflected by the nature of the community care programmes. as well as delivering components and parts such as bearings and grease. SKF Germany took over the partnership from SKF France in Sponsorship 2009. SKF France was a partner from the very beginning in 1985. The Göteborg Award for Sustainable Development The Asian edition of the Shell Eco-marathon started in 2010 and SKF is one of the sponsors of the Göteborg Award for Sustainable 2011 was the first year for SKF Asia as an official partner. The Asian Development. The SEK 1 million award is given annually to individuals race was held at Sepang International Circuit in Kuala Lumpur, or organizations for their significant contribution to sustainable devel­ Malaysia on 6-9 July. opment. The 2011 award went to Kofi Annan and Sue Edwards, for their great contribution to sustainable food production in Africa. SKF in Venezuela is working with Casa Hogar San José – a safe home away from home for children whose parents are in prison Casa Hogar is a non-profit organization founded in 1981. The foundation is managed by a group of nuns and is home to 26 children, whose parent(s) are in prison. With no governmental support, the foundation relies on the local community and private donations to satisfy the children’s basic needs. SKF started by collecting food, clothes and medicine to donate to the Casa. Now, people from SKF’s small Vene­ zuelan organization spend time with the children and do volunteer work twice a year at the house. SKF is also sponsoring a psychology programme for the children. Every month a psychologist spends 20 hours at the house, helping them to sort out their issues, some­ times together with other family members included in an integrated programme. 70 Administration Report • Community Care The SKF Forest in Indonesia The SKF Forest in Indonesia located in Mount Gede Pangrango, about 150 kms south of Jakarta. From 2008 to 2011, SKF Indonesia has planted 1,200 endemic trees in the area. Together with the local community and the Green Initiative Foundation, the plants are maintained until they have grown four meters on average. Reforestation of this land helps to absorb rainwater before it flows into Jakarta and thus prevents flooding. Switzerland Solar Impulse SKF contributes to Solar Impulse, the first aircraft designed to fly and successfully completed the first complete day-night-day cycle in day and night without fuel or pollution, demonstrating the immense the summer of 2010. With this milestone achieved, a second airplane potential of renewable energy. The Solar Impulse project’s objective is will be built, with the objective to circle the world in five legs of five to have an airplane take off and fly autonomously, around the world, days and nights each in 2013. propelled uniquely by solar energy. SKF joined the project as a spe­ cialized partner, contributing to developing this unique airplane with Gothenburg International Science festival products and engineering knowledge in the areas of bearing techno­ SKF has been a proud sponsor of this event since 1996. The aim of the logy, analytical modelling and virtual testing. event is to stimulate positive attitudes towards science and its role in The aircraft’s construction calls for advanced technologies and society by bringing science to the general public. It is also to provide a research in composite structures, light materials, and energy storage. meeting place for the research community. The festival is truly an In the first phase of the project, SKF is providing customized hybrid excellent meeting place for the general interests or enthusiasts in deep groove ball bearings for the aircraft’s main propeller drive. The natural science and technology held at various venues, from muse­ prototype is designed to demonstrate the possibility of a night flight ums, libraries to shopping centres and city parks. Shell Eco-marathon Asia 94 teams from 12 countries took part in the Shell Eco-marathon race at Sepang International Circuit at Kuala Lumpur on 6-9 July 2011. SKF is a partner of many of the teams, sup­ porting them with technical advice, engineering solutions and of course supplying products like bearings and lubricants. Administration Report • Community Care 71 SKF – the knowledge engineering company SKF has been a leading technology provider for more than and its corporate culture. SKF’s offer has evolved over many 100 years and is increasing its investment to maintain this years from primarily being based on different types of bearings, leadership. SKF’s fundamental strength is its ability to continu­ to include products and services from all five technology plat­ ously develop technology, products and services that enhance forms including advanced unitized modules, integrating the competitive advantages for its customers while giving the right knowledge and capabilities of SKF’s platforms. A key driver of return on investment for its shareholders. This is achieved by SKF’s technology development today is an increased focus on both investing in core technology areas and by combining the developing products and services which improve efficiency and knowledge across the SKF technology platforms – Bearings reduce energy losses, thereby helping to reduce the environ­ and Units, Seals, Mechatronics, Services and Lubrication mental impact both in its operations and for its customers. Systems – to develop value propositions for the different SKF is also increasingly supporting its cust­omers throughout industries and customers around the world. It is also built on their whole asset life cycle management process. the foundation of a commitment to develop SKF’s employees SKF’s vision is “To equip the world with SKF knowledge”. To take all the knowledge gained over the years to develop and deliver products, services and solutions which enable customers today to develop their businesses successfully and profitably. SKF knowledge can be defined as the combination of the following three dimensions: 1 The geographic dimension SKF is a global company with a local presence. Wherever customers are located, local expertise, supported by global industrial specialists and technical experts, combine their skills to make a specific offer for customers, which meets their local needs. The global experts draw upon knowledge and successes from similar industries worldwide. 2 The customer dimension SKF’s customers can be found in most industries. Each customer and ­segment has different technical and commercial challenges. Working in so many different industries enables SKF to both develop specific products and services for each industry and also to take knowledge from one industry and apply it to another industry. 3 The­technology dimension SKF’s five technology platforms are Bearings and Units, Seals, Mechatronics, Services and Lubrication Systems. SKF’s specialist teams in each platform work closely together with the segments and sales organization to provide advanced integrated solutions for meeting customers’ needs to develop new products, improving production efficiency and improving competitiveness and profitability. Using all three dimensions to build customer value is what SKF calls “The power of knowledge engineering”. 72 Administration Report • SKF – the knowledge engineering company Customers SKF supplies products to industrial original equipment manufacturers the full range of SKF’s expertise with workshop facilities, providing (OEMs) that produce many different types of industrial products such customized service to end-user customers. In this way, many SKF as pumps, fans, compressors, motors, gearboxes, machine tools, bearing services and integrated value-adding solutions – such as paper machines, steel mills, printing presses and windmills, to name remanufacturing and customization, application engineering, spindle a few. SKF serves the aerospace industry, including manufacturers repair, lubrication applications, mechanical services including mount­ of engines, gearboxes and other modules for fixed wing aircraft and ing, alignment and balancing, remote monitoring centre and training helicopters, as well as supplying to maintenance, repair and overhaul are close at hand for customers. suppliers and airlines. SKF also supplies the railway industry, which In close collaboration with authorized distributors, SKF Logistics’ includes manufacturers of trains, high-speed trains, passenger operations ensure that SKF’s customers also get the right products carriages, freight carriages, railway component and system suppliers at the right time, while minimizing capital tied up in stock. and repair workshops. Another customer group is OEMs of products made in higher vol­ Together with the largest network of authorized distributors in the umes. These customers include manufacturers of cars, trucks, twobearing industry, SKF provides a unique service organization. With wheelers, automotive components, household appliances and small around 7,000 industrial distributors, SKF is close to its customers electric motors. Since the lead time for developing a new generation worldwide. SKF works actively with its distributors to help customers of these products is normally fairly long, SKF is often involved in the improve the uptime and efficiency of their production processes. One development process years before production starts. Many of SKF’s example is SKF’s asset management support tools that make it possi­ products for these segments are specifically designed for each cus­ ble to recommend the right maintenance strategy, work process and tomer and each application. optimal level of spare parts. Understanding the critical machines and The vehicle aftermarket is served by SKF mainly based on a repair failure modes allow SKF to recommend the right condition monitoring kit concept. SKF provides mechanics with appropriate repair kits to solutions for customers. help speed up and facilitate repair work, and which contain all the Through its SKF Solution Factories SKF offers an infrastructure for necessary components for making the repair. More than 19,000 delivering complete, integrated solutions incorporating all technology different kits are currently available and some examples include wheel platforms. Customers can fully utilize SKF’s knowledge by combining bearings, timing belts, water pumps and constant velocity joints. SKF’s engineers SKF’s technology can be found throughout the world in diverse applications, from energy wind farms, offshore oil rigs, aircraft flight control systems, steel and paper mills, and high-speed trains to washing machines and millions of motorcycles, trucks and cars. SKF’s engineers are constantly creating new solutions for customer problems. Solutions that improve efficiency, productivity and reduce environmental impact. I am focusing on providing solutions to the offshore upstream oil and gas sector in the North Sea and abroad. At one of the major production platforms, failing motor bearings used to cause gas compressors to break down as often as every third month. Each time, that meant 25% lost production for several days. We provided our proactive reliability maintenance services and after through analysis of the vibration signatures and the damaged bearings, we found a long-term solution. SKF’s NoWear bearings along with a new sealing arrangement made all the difference, allowing the compressors to run six times longer than before. For every breakdown that can be avoided, the plat­ form operator saves tens of million dollars. On top of that, these improvements also reduce health, safety and envir­ onmental risks. Jim Marnoch Business Director, SKF in Aberdeen, Scotland Administration Report • SKF – the knowledge engineering company 73 To further strengthen SKF’s network of R&D centres and laboratories, the Global Technical Centre India (GTCI) in Bengaluru was inaugurated in December 2011. The aim of the centre is to assume a global developmental and regional role, bringing innovation and technical knowledge closer to SKF’s customers in India and South-East Asia. GTCI will also support global projects for the SKF Group. Technology research and development Relationship with the academic community SKF’s continued commitment to technology development is important SKF continued strengthening its relationship with the academic for maintaining and strengthening the company’s technological leader­ community by collaborating with renowned universities as a strategic ship. During 2011, SKF recorded 620 (469) invention disclosures and measure in maintaining technological leadership. successfully applied for 325 (251) first filings of patent applications. In April 2011, the SKF University Technology Centre for sustain­ SKF has a strong global network of R&D centres and laboratories, ability and environment was established with Chalmers University, as well as established collaborations with major universities and Gothenburg, confirming this as a core strategic area for the Group; the research institutes and established a number of new centres and focus being on research and development in the areas of technology, collaborations in 2011. manufacturing, business processes and business strategy. R&D expenditure was SEK 1,481 million (1,184), corresponding to In December 2011, the SKF University Technology Centre for 2.2% (1.9) of annual sales, excluding developing IT solutions. In 2011, condition monitoring and asset management was established with SEK 27 million (30) was capitalized development expenditure. SKF’s the Technology University, Luleå, Sweden. R&D investments rose by around 30% (5), in local currency, in 2011 In 2009, a centre for research for steel was established at compared with 2010. The Group is increasing its activities in the R&D Cambridge, England. In 2010, a centre for tribology at Imperial College, arena with a greater focus on new products and services which have London, and a centre for research for polymer materials at Tsinghua, a positive impact on the environment. In addition there has been China, were established. a greater concentration on strengthening core technologies, launching new products, increasing R&D activities in rapidly developing regions Technology clusters and further strengthening the links with universities and technical SKF’s research projects are organized and run by technology clusters. colleges. These are groups of technical experts from throughout the Group, who translate innovation strategies in their respective fields into clear Global Technical Centres in Asia technology programs, from which product and service solutions are The SKF Global Technical Centre India (GTCI) was inaugurated in developed for specific customer segments and applications. The Bengaluru, in December 2011. The opening of GTCI is part of SKF’s cluster experts facilitate and support continuous development of technology strategy to develop a global product development and innovative ideas all the way to implementation and market introduc­ engineering organization. The new Global Technical Centre will incorp­ tion. Encouraging an innovative culture is vital to SKF and every year orate the existing Global Testing Centre, opened in 2009 and the a number of internal projects are selected and awarded for their Automotive Development Centre, opened in 2004, both of which are exceptional contribution to business, innovation and sustainability. located in Bengaluru. The opening of the centre further reinforces SKF’s strategy to open Global Technical Centres near its customers Technology in motor racing to focus on product innovations on all five SKF technology platforms. Pursuing the excellence in the technology, SKF is active in the motor­ The expertise of the centres in Asia range from technology and sport industry and invests in the advanced development, which will product/process development to engineering and testing, thus ful­ generate additional value to the industrial and automotive markets. filling customers’ needs in these expanding markets. 74 Administration Report • SKF – the knowledge engineering company In 2011, the technical partnership with the Scuderia Ferrari team Modelling and simulation was renewed, it represents the longest technical cooperation ever in Modelling and simulation of rolling bearing products requires detailed, F1 history. SKF provides several components in this field for the most accurate information on the role of different materials and associated demanding engineering applications, such as low friction sealing physical properties, and how contacting surfaces react during rolling materials, hybrid bearings and solutions for the Kinetic Energy contact conditions. The development of such models has focused on Recovery System (KERS). different size regimes, typically from the sub-micron level up to fullscale components. SKF’s core areas of technical expertise include: SKF has the most comprehensive and powerful sets of modelling Materials and heat treatment and simulation packages in the bearing industry, ranging from easySKF is at the forefront of understanding the interaction and exploit­ to-use tools based on the SKF General Catalogue formulas, to the ation of steel and heat treatment combinations to meet the evermost sophisticated calculation and simulation systems. The com­ increasing demand for load carrying capacity and energy efficiency. pany’s strategy is to develop a wide range of software packages to Through its heat treatment processes, SKF achieves excellent steel satisfy a large number of customer requirements, from fairly simple properties by controlling the microstructure and the residual stresses design checks and moderately complex investigations to the most in steel. The continuous strive for optimizing the interaction between advanced simulations for bearing and machine design. material and heat treatment is now focused on making heat treatment SKF combines the ability to model generic mechanical systems equipment smaller and more energy efficient, while still attaining the using shafts, gears, housings, etc. with a precise bearing model for material properties required for different applications. New computerin-depth analysis of the system behaviour in a virtual environment. based techniques are used to understand deformation behaviour and This SKF program is the result of several years of specific research response of hardened steels under extreme load conditions. Technol­ and development. For dynamic calculations, SKF has programs to ogy development within non-metallic materials, such as polymers and study and optimize the complex behaviour of noise and vibrationceramics, is also important. SKF focuses strongly on their friction and critical bearing applications (e.g. electric motors, gearboxes), providing weight reduction properties, enabling them to support market trends an in-depth understanding of, and advice on, the dynamic behaviour and maintain the sustainable strengths of SKF’s products. of an application. For the most precise simulations of the detailed In 2011 SKF signed a strategic partnership agreement with CITIC dynamics inside the bearing, SKF software can be seen as a virtual Pacific Special Steel Co., Ltd with the ambition of creating financial test rig, performing detailed studies of forces, moments etc. under synergy and sustainable development for both parties. virtually any load condition. In November 2011, SKF received the American Society for Testing The SKF Spindle Simulator is advanced simulation software for and Materials (ASTM International) award, for the numerous, out­ analyzing spindle applications. This program takes account of the standing contributions to the Association’s conferences. effect of the operating speed and temperature on the bearing shaft SKF’s lightweight hub bearing unit is a new wheel end solution of and housing fits, as well as the bearing preload. In addition, at each the flanged hub bearing design, which contributes to significant weight point in the spindle’s duty cycle, it analyzes the effect of the external reduction, thereby reducing fuel consumption and CO2 emissions. By loads on the shaft and the bearings and delivers precise information combining steel, which provides the expected roller bearing perform­ about each contact for each rolling element on each bearing. The ance, with aluminum, as the flanged structural component, the overall program supports the analysis of spindles and contains detailed weight can be reduced by up to 30% compared to the standard unit. models of super-precision bearings. Seals SKF focuses on developing new elastomeric materials and optimized seal-lip tribology to enhance sealing functions, using advanced mod­ elling of the seals. The new generation of materials uses new types of fillers to provide low friction. Magnetic encoders within the seals, combined with sensors, enable the transmission of information to the controlling systems. New insights into rubber ageing, rubber friction and wear have been obtained, combining novel experimental methods with advanced simulations Mechatronics This is the integration of mechanical and electronic engineering with associated proprietary control strategies for application in SKF’s products and processes. Monitoring operating conditions as close to the contact area as possible gives greater accuracy for studying the performance of a system. In addition to temperature, speed, direction of rotation and vibration, loads can be monitored via sensors inte­ grated into SKF bearings. Responding to the customers’ need for reducing installation costs and time and to increase the life of components, SKF develops prod­ ucts that make use of wireless technologies more efficiently. In January 2012, SKF launched the SKF Bearing Calculator in the App Store for iPhones and iPads. Customers can run basic analysis of a bearing from anywhere, based on the calculations according to the SKF General Catalogue. Administration Report • SKF – the knowledge engineering company 75 The SKF Interactive Engineering Catalogue is an easy-to-use Life cycle management research online tool for bearing selection and calculation, for public use at An increasing share of SKF’s research projects primarily target www.skf.com, containing bearing designations, dimensions and improving life cycle environmental performance of the customer’s drawings of bearing units, bearing housings, plain bearings and applications. This means considering the environmental conse­ seals. A module for frictional moment of energy-efficient bearing quences of a product or manufacturing process, no matter where designs has also been published. This calculation model considers in the product’s life cycle these consequences occur. the geometrical optimization made in the bearings to reduce friction, To support this positive development and foster the use of as well as surface topography improvements and the use of lowimproved environmental performance technologies, SKF is conduct­ friction lubricants of energy-efficient bearings. ing research in the area of life cycle management. The aim is to con­ stantly improve the knowledge of the environmental performance of Tribology and lubrication SKF’s products and manufacturing processes, and to put that know­ The interaction between lubricants and bearing steel is an essential ledge into practice by adapting day-to-day business methods and factor and is critical when bearings operate with marginal lubrication. tools. The chemical composition and mechanical properties of the reaction Conventional methods for environmental assessment, such as life­ layer formed by the interaction between the lubricant and the bearing cycle assessment and environmental risk assessment are applied to steel strongly influences the performance of bearings. capture the complex and holistic nature of environmental impacts. Therefore, understanding the composition and mechanics of reac­ However, in the life cycle management research conducted by SKF, tion layers is very important for SKF. Understanding, predicting and in collaboration with renowned universities and at industrial expertise controlling the working conditions help reduce bearing friction and centres, these methods are further developed to suit industrial needs wear, and prolong service life. better. Manufacturing Intelligent inspection technologies SKF is constantly developing its manufacturing processes to optimize SKF’s commitment towards zero waste and zero defects has led to investments in equipment and working capital per unit produced, developing advanced technologies for inspecting products and com­ resulting in enhanced quality and improved customer service. The use ponents. By adding intelligence into the inspection loop, SKF can today of Six Sigma methodology plays an important role in strengthening use the information generated to better control and verify the manu­ SKF’s manufacturing efficiency. All initiatives for continuously improv­ facturing processes. This can be used by applying non-destructive ing manufacturing are brought together by Business Excellence for testing technologies like vision systems, eddy current, ultrasonic and Manufacturing, which ensures consistent implementation throughout other technologies built on magnetic properties of heat-treated steel. the Group. Combining it with the use of artificial intelligence it is possible to detect the material defects and improve process control, as well as defining Manufacturing R&D and predicting product properties. To support the manufacturing strategy, R&D focuses on developing and implementing new technology to increase reliability and flexibility, Near net shape forming reduce costs and improve environmental performance. Near net shape forming is a cluster of technologies from forging, Some examples include: pressing, to rolling of rings and rolling elements that aim at forming • Improved product performance by an advanced selection of steel a component to almost the final shape. This process enables the and heat treatment combination. In recent years considerable reduction of allowances in all operations, giving greater performance investment and implementations have been made in heat treatment in SKF’s manufacturing channels. Reduced allowances also have a equipment at many of SKF’s factories. significant impact on the environment – reducing the manufacturing • Improved material utilization in all manufacturing process steps cycle time will reduce energy consumption and waste. resulting in reduced waste, manufacturing variations and allow­ To achieve the full benefit, SKF is also exploring new ways of ances. manufacturing bearings and components. This could involve new • Intelligent machining and integrating sensors and measuring equip­ unconventional technologies or combinations thereof, as well as ment into machines for more consistent and reliable manufacturing combinations of materials for taking advantage of properties from processes. each material. • Advanced intelligent technologies for vision systems and measuring enabling tighter control of manufacturing processes. • New processes for improving sustainability, employing important, enhanced, energy utilization while reducing the use of process media. • New methods for business excellence in manufacturing resulting in improved equipment utilization and a stronger culture of active involvement of SKF’s employees. 76 Administration Report • SKF – the knowledge engineering company SKF’s markets Bearings market The global bearing market is generally seen as the worldwide sales of local manufacturers. Some of the largest include: Wafangdian of rolling bearings, comprising ball and roller bearing assemblies (ZWZ), Luoyang (LYC), Harbin (HRB), Zhejiang Tianma (TMB), of various designs including mounted bearing units. SKF estimates Wanxiang Qianchao, and C&U. that the global rolling bearing market increased in local currency The Indian bearing market has been growing at the same pace between5 and 10% in 2011 over the previous year, to between as the Chinese market and now accounts for about 5% of the world SEK 310 and 320 billion. bearing market. The players in that market include international The automotive original equipment bearing markets, including manufacturers and several local manufacturers such as NEI, NRB, twoand three-wheelers, accounted for slightly more than 30% of ABC and TATA. world demand. The industrial original equipment bearing markets Europe accounts for less than 25% of the world market total with accounted for almost 40% of world demand and included manufactur­ Germany alone accounting for almost 10%. The Americas now repre­ ers of light and heavy industrial machines and equipment as well as sent less than 25% of global demand, of which the USA, Canada and aerospace, off-highway and railway vehicles. Sales through distribut­ Mexico together account for about 80%. In South America, Brazil is ors (industrial distribution and the independent vehicle aftermarket) the major market and makes up more than 60% of regional demand. make up around 30% of world bearing demand, of which around 25% SKF is the world leader on the market for bearings and other major is related to the vehicle service market and around 75% to the indus­­ international companies here include: the Schaeffler Group, Timken, trial market. NSK, NTN, and JTEKT. Asia currently accounts for almost 50% of the world bearing Radial deep groove ball bearings are the most common rolling market, compared with less than 30% ten years ago. China has been bearing type, accounting for almost 30% of world bearing demand. growing rapidly over the last few years supported by the expansion of Other major ball bearing types include angular contact ball bearings, its domestic railway infrastructure and a robust demand in renewable self-aligning ball bearings, thrust ball bearings and automotive wheel energy and now accounts for more than 25% of the world bearing hub bearing units accounting for more than 10% of total world bearing total. Japan’s share of the world bearing market has been declining, market. Roller bearings account for less than half of world bearing and domestic Japanese bearing demand now accounts for less than market. 15% of the world total. Other Asian markets with bearing production Roller bearings are named after the roller shape, such as cylindrical and showing significant growth in recent years include India, Thailand, roller bearings, needle roller bearings, tapered roller bearings and Indonesia, Malaysia and the Republic of Korea. spherical roller bearings. All of these are available for loads acting The Chinese bearing market, which is the largest and fastest grow­ across the shaft (radial bearings) and for loads that are parallel with ing of the emerging markets, is very fragmented with the main inter­ the shaft (thrust bearings). There are also bearings that contain both national bearing companies accounting for about one third of the balls and rollers simultaneously. The largest roller bearing family is the market while the other two thirds of the market consists of a host tapered roller bearing, with almost 20% of the world bearing market. Needle Spherical Tapered Cylindrical roller bearing roller bearing roller bearing roller bearing Angular contact ball bearing Wheel hub Deep groove Thrust Self-aligning bearing ball bearing ball bearing ball bearing Administration Report • SKF’s markets 77 Actuation and motion control market This market includes a wide variety of different products in which mechanical components and systems, electric drives and intelligent controls are combined to provide different types of controlled motion. SKF estimates that the global markets for actuation and motion con­ trol increased by 15% in 2011 over the previous year in local curren­ cies, to around SEK 70 billion worldwide. More than half of the market is in Asia, one third in Europe and the remainder in the Americas. The market consists of many suppliers with different backgrounds and offers: from producers of basic mechanical components to specialists in motors, software or controls. The company’s largest competitors include LINAK, in the actuator business and THK, in the linear motion area. There is a clear indus­ trial trend towards a higher use of mechatronic solutions driven by in­­creasingly stringent demands on reliability, flexibility, cost of owner­ ship, energy efficiency and environmental impact. SKF is active in developing and offering a comprehensive range of mechatronic components, modules and sub-systems for many indus­ trial and consumer applications, which provide extensive customer benefits. SKF’s main focus segments in this market include the medi­ cal industry, factory automation, semi-conductors and the oil and gas industry. SKF is very active in the oil and gas segment and involved in developing products and solutions for sub-sea applications, which are considered tomorrow’s new technological frontier of this industry. SKF is a leading supplier for heavy duty actuation systems (systems with a high utilization rate), roller screws and magnetic system solu­ tions, including magnetic bearings, controllers, motor drives and high-speed motors. SKF also supplies linear guides, ball screws and complete systems, such as by-wire systems for aerospace, off-high­ Actuators for linear motion way and automotive applications. International standards SKF has actively contributed as part of the ISO ISO (International Organization for Standardization) Technical Committee since its start in 1949 to set ANSI (American National Standards Institute) the standards for the bearing industry. Most of DIN (Deutsches Institut für Normung) the standards projects on rolling bearings were CEN (European Committee for Standardization) initiated by SKF engineers. SKF is involved in BSI (British Standards Institute) many standardization bodies: SIS (Swedish Standards Institute) 78 Administration Report • SKF’s markets Polymer seals market SKF is a leading player in the global polymer seals market. After the Fluid power seals are used in both mobile and stationary fluid economic downturn in 2009 the market recovered in 2010 to reach power applications, for example in off-highway, mining, and heavy around SEK 70 billion. During 2011 market growth continued, though industry. The off-highway applications, where SKF has a strong pos­ at a slower rate during the second half, to reach an estimated SEK 75 ition, represent the largest part of the market. About 80% of the fluid billion. In local currencies market growth was estimated at around power seals are made for reciprocating motion. SKF has the capability 15% for 2011. to produce fluid power and fluid handling polymer seals using both, There are different ways of segmenting the polymer seals market. machining and moulding technologies. Machined seals, where SKF It can be classified by type of motion into rotating, reciprocating or has a world leading position, can be produced in a variety of profiles static seals. It can also be classified into rubber seals, PTFE seals, etc. and within very short time frames. depending on the main material used for sealing solutions. A third way Asia represents about 50% of the automotive OEM seals market of segmenting the market is to look at the customer groups: automo­ while the rest is split between Europe and the Americas. Key appli­ tive, industrial or aerospace seals. SKF is a significant player in all cations in the automotive seals market that SKF focuses on with the three customer groups. latest technology solutions include powertrain, both in engines and Asia represents about 40% of the industrial seals market. The transmissions, wheel ends and chassis. Transmission seals represent remainder is almost equally split between the Americas and Europe. the largest part of the market, with its bonded piston and shaft seal Even though a slowdown of the growth rate could be seen in China product lines. For engine applications, valve stem seals and engine and India in 2011, they are still rapidly expanding markets and are shaft seals are key product groups where SKF has a strong presence. expected to grow faster than Europe and the Americas in years to SKF also has a strong position for seals that are integrated into wheel come. A local presence for supplying the Asian market is critical. SKF hub bearing units for cars, as well as seals for the heavy truck industry. has a good presence in the Asian markets with seals manufacturing, SKF offers seals, elastomeric bearings, elastomeric isolators and testing and engineering facilities in China, India and South Korea. SKF damping solutions mainly for helicopters. SKF also offers standard is continuously investing to further strengthen its Asian presence, radial lip shaft seals for rotor systems, gearboxes, transmissions, including a new seals factory in Mysore, India, which will start prod­ and auxiliary power units including landing gear wheels seals and uction in the first half of 2012. actuator seals. Industrial seals can be categorized into power transmission seals The German Freudenberg Group with its automotive focused and fluid system seals, with the latter comprising fluid power seals and Japanese affiliate NOK (Nippon Oil Seal Co) is the largest supplier on fluid handling seals. With its established presence in the bearing the world polymer seals market across all segments. Trelleborg and industry, SKF has a strong track record with polymer seals for the Parker Hannifin are important players on the industrial seals market, power transmission industry and is today a leading player on this and Federal Mogul, Dana, ElringKlinger and Bruss are significant market offering high-end, technology driven solutions. Most power suppliers of automotive seals. For precision elastomeric devices, Lord transmission seals are made for rotating applications, with radial and and Paulstra (part of the Hutchinson Group) are the largest suppliers. axial shaft seals being the main product groups. Wear sleeves, which Overall, SKF is among the top global players with a strong offer in are used to repair a worn shaft without dismantling the shaft, is also most applications across each segment. a key product group where SKF has a strong position. Transmission Radial shaft seal with Radial shaft seal with Metal-cased radial Piston seal shaft seal rubber sealing lip PTFE sealing lip shaft seal Bonded piston seal Compact piston seal Fork seal SKF ROTOSTAT sealing High pressure valve module with sensor stem seal Administration Report • SKF’s markets 79 Lubrication systems market SKF estimates that the global lubrication market, consisting of auto­ 50% of global demand, while vehicles – agricultural, mobile mining matic lubrication systems equipment, design and installation and and construction, trucks and trailers – and industrial machines, such lubrication tools and equipment, was worth around SEK 30 billion in as machine tools and printing machines, each account for around 25% 2011, compared to 2010, up with more than 25% measured in local of the market. currencies. By region, European markets account for about 40%, North and Automatic or centralized lubrication systems provide precise Latin America together make up about 25%, and Asia and the rest of amounts of lubricants – oil or grease – to moving parts, notably bear­ the world account for 35%. ings, to minimize friction and wear. These systems are increasingly SKF has a strong presence in both the grease and the oil-based seen as mission-critical products aimed at improving the productivity, lubrication systems market globally. The remainder of the market is reliability, energy efficiency, environmental compliance and mainten­ highly fragmented with few truly international suppliers and a large ance of vehicles and industrial machinery. amount of small to mid-sized competitors. SKF’s competitors include Automatic lubrication systems include pumps, reservoirs, valves, Baier & Köppel (BEKA, Germany), Groeneveld Group (Netherlands), pipes, metering system connectors and controllers. Design and instal­ Bijur Delimon (USA), Graco (USA), Dropsa (Italy) and Woerner lation services play a significant role. (Germany). Large industrial processing equipment in the cement, mining and mineral processing, steel and paper industries accounts for almost Lincoln’s new 18-Volt Lithium Ion PowerLuber grease gun The Lincoln 653 pump is part of the Centro-Matic automatic was built for the maintenance professional. The innovative grease lubrication system. It can support applications ranging design includes an illuminated display centre that measfrom just a few lubrication points to as many as 36 large ures grease dispensed, cartridge level, charge level and injectors and many more if smaller injectors are used. The more. pump can dispense lubricant to bearings as far as 70 metres away from the pump. It’s ideal for both mobile off-road and industrial applications. The new oil-based system SKF microdosage for lubrication of high-speed spindles. The system supplies up to four lubrication points with minimal quantities of oil. 80 Administration Report • SKF’s markets Accurately aligned shafts can help prevent machinery breakdowns and reduce unplanned downtime. SKF has developed a range of shaft alignment tools that are suitable for a majority of alignment tasks. Asset efficiency market Asset efficiency product and service solutions is a rapidly expanding the end-user. SKF plays a role in the entire life cycle process to help business sector, driven by increasing global competition among capitallower the total costs. intensive industries. Asset efficiency consists of products and services SKF is a global leader in this rapidly expanding market. By combining that enable customers to increase the availability and reliability of plant its extensive knowledge of industrial machinery and sustainability assets, reduce environmental impact and improve health and safety. demands in economic, technical and environmental terms with its Typically, this involves using condition-monitoring technologies like local service presence, SKF can deliver effective implementation of vibration, thermography and oil analysis to name a few. monitoring instrumentation and software solutions to customers Rapidly expanding markets continue to outpace and now account worldwide. The largest competitor in the market is the GE Energy for almost 50% of the global market. Of this Asia contributes almost unit Bently-Nevada. 30% and Latin America around 20% with North America, Europe and the Middle East together accounting for the remainder. The com­ pounded annual growth rate (CAGR) is nearly double in Asia and other rapidly expanding markets to that of the US and Europe. Developing infrastructure, along with the fast growing energy sector, is driving demand for asset efficiency products and services. Demand in North America and Europe is driven primarily by upgrading existing facilities and growth in the renewable sector. The aging workforces in North America and Europe, along with cor­ porate downsizing in recent years, has resulted in fewer skilled per­ sonnel available on the market place for conducting asset efficiency programmes. This has driven increasing use of outsourced service contracts from SKF along with deployment of remote monitoring solutions supported by Software as a Service (SaaS). This leverages skills, improves consistency and reduces start-up and operation costs of asset reliability programmes. Increasing regulatory requirements driven by health, safety and environmental concerns are requiring customers to inspect and mon­ itor a greater portion of their plant assets with increasing frequency. In most cases this includes traceable documentation. This is resulting in the greater use of mobile inspection and wireless devices. SKF’s new TKSA 60 and TKSA 80 shaft alignment tools are designed All of the market factors above are leading to a greater emphasis on to help users with managing alignment processes for rotating machines, life cycle costing and management of key plant assets. This is defined which consequently help prevent reduced production caused by machine as a more integrated approach from the design, manufacture and misalignment and promotes reduced energy consumption and increased delivery from the OEM to the installation, use and maintenance from operating life. Administration Report • SKF’s markets 81 Financial statements Content 83 Consolidated financial statements 118 Note 24. Related parties 84 Consolidated income statements and consolidated 118 Note 25. Remuneration to Key Management statements of comprehensive income 122 Note 26. Fees to the auditors 85 Comments on the consolidated income statements 123 Note 27. Average number of employees 86 Consolidated balance sheets 123 Note 28. Financial risk management 87 Comments on the consolidated balance sheets 126 Note 29. Events after balance sheet date 88 Consolidated statements of cash flow 89 Comments on the consolidated statements of cash flow 127 Financial statements of the Parent Company 90 Consolidated statements of changes in equity and comments 127 Parent Company income statements and statements of comprehensive income 91 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 128 Parent Company balance sheets 91 Note 1. Accounting policies 129 Parent Company statements of cash flow 99 Note 2. Segment information 130 Parent Company statements of changes in equity 100 Note 3. Acquisitions 102 Note 4. Divestments of businesses and assets held for sale 131 Notes to the financial statements of the Parent Company 102 Note 5. Research and development 131 Note 1. Accounting policies 102 Note 6. Expenses by nature 131 Note 2. Financial income and financial expenses 103 Note 7. Other operating income and expenses 132 Note 3. Untaxed reserves 103 Note 8. Financial income and financial expenses 132 Note 4. Taxes 104 Note 9. Taxes 132 Note 5. Property, plant and equipment 105 Note 10. Intangible assets 133 Note 6. Investments in subsidiaries and ­associated companies 107 Note 11. Property, plant and equipment 135 Note 7. Investments in equity securities 108 Note 12. Jointly controlled and associated companies 135 Note 8. Provisions for post-employment benefits 109 Note 13. Inventories 136 Note 9. Loans 109 Note 14. Financial assets 136 Note 10. Salaries, wages, other remunerations, average 111 Note 15. Other short-term assets number of employees and men and women in 111 Note 16. Share capital Management and Board 112 Note 17. Earnings per share 136 Note 11. Related parties 112 Note 18. Provisions for post-employment benefits 136 Note 12. Events after balance sheet date 116 Note 19. Other provisions 137 Proposed distribution of surplus 116 Note 20. Financial liabilities 117 Note 21. Leases 138 Notes – Environmental and social performance 117 Note 22. Other short-term liabilities 142 Auditors’ report 117 Note 23. Assets pledged and contingent liabilities Consolidated income statements Years ended 31 December SEKm Note 2011 2010 Net sales 2 66,216 61,029 Cost of goods sold 5, 6 -47,644 -44,216 Gross profit 18,572 16,813 Selling expenses 6 -8,435 -7,729 Administrative expenses 6 -545 -493 Other operating income 7 860 527 Other operating expenses 7 -824 -666 Loss (-)/profit (+) from jointly controlled and associated companies 12 -16 0 Operating profit 9,612 8,452 Financial income 8 368 391 Financial expenses 8 -1,048 -1,294 Profit before taxes 8,932 7,549 Taxes 9 -2,708 -2,253 Net profit 6,224 5,296 Net profit attributable to: Owners of AB SKF 6,051 5,138 Non-controlling interests 173 158 Basic earnings per share (SEK) 17 13.29 11.28 Diluted earnings per share (SEK) 17 13.29 11.28 Consolidated statements of comprehensive income Years ended 31 December SEKm Note 2011 2010 Net profit 6,224 5,296 Other comprehensive income Currency translation adjustments -96 -1,660 Available-for-sale assets Change in fair value 14 -260 169 Cash-flow hedges Change in fair value 28 -68 30 Release of cash flow hedges 28 -127 -12 Actuarial gains and losses, net 18 -1,336 -616 Income taxes related to components of other comprehensive income 9 472 56 Other comprehensive income, net of tax -1,415 -2,033 Total comprehensive income 4,809 3,263 Total comprehensive income attributable to: Owners of AB SKF 4,720 3,131 Non-controlling interests 89 132 84 Consolidated income statements and consolidated statements of comprehensive income Amounts in parentheses refer to comparable figures for 2010. Exchange rates for the full year 2011, including translation effects and flows from transactions, had a negative effect on operating profit General of around SEK 1,200 m (-400). Cost of goods sold, selling and adminLincoln, which was acquired 28 December 2010, is included in the istrative expenses amounted to SEK 56,624 m (52,438). The costs Group’s Consolidated Income statement and statement of comprewere divided into 33% (35) employee benefit expense including social hensive income as from 1 January 2011. charges, 37% (34) raw material and components consumed, 27% (27) other purchased services, utilities and goods and 3% (4) depreciation, Net sales amortization and impairments. Other operating income and other Net sales amounted to SEK 66,216 m (61,029). The 8.5% increase in operating expenses include items such as foreign exchange gains and net sales compared to 2010 was attributable to volume by 9.6%, to losses arising on operating assets and liabilities, gains and losses on price and mix 1) by 1.9%, to structure by 4.8% and to currency effects sales of property, plant and equipment and businesses as well as by -7.8%. The structural increase in sales is primarily related to ­L incoln. rental revenues. For further details, see Note 7. Qualifying hedging activities affected net sales by SEK 119 m (10). Profit before taxes Operating profit Profit before taxes amounted to SEK 8,932 m (7,549). Financial income Operating profit amounted to SEK 9,612 m (8,452) resulting in an and expenses, net, amounted to SEK -680 m (-903). The comparable operating margin of 14.5% (13.8). Non-recurring items impacting figure for 2010 includes a write-down of SEK 225 m related to the operating profit for the full-year amounted to around SEK 100 m Ovako vendor note. Interest costs net on post-employment benefits (190) of which around SEK 40 m were related to impairment of assets have affected the financial net negatively by SEK 247 m (-267). and had no impact on cash flow. The remaining costs were related to various restructuring activities. Net profit Net profit amounted to SEK 6,224 m (5,296). The actual tax rate was 30.3% (29.8). Values by quarter SEKm Quarter 1 Quarter 2 Quarter 3 Quarter 4 Full year 2011 Net sales 16,702 16,712 16,545 16,257 66,216 Operating profit 2,504 2,623 2,479 2,006 9,612 Profit before taxes 2,318 2,446 2,345 1,823 8,932 Basic earnings per share (SEK) 3.44 3.76 3.52 2.57 13.29 1) Mix refers to volume shifts between various customer segments and products with different price levels. Net sales Net sales Profit before taxes Profit before taxes 66,216 66,216 8,932 8,932 61,029 61,029 80,000 10,000 56,227 7,549 80,000 10,000 56,227 7,549 60,000 60,000 7,500 7,500 40,000 40,000 5,000 5,000 2,297 2,297 20,000 20,000 2,500 2,500 0 0 0 0 09 10 11 09 10 11 09 10 11 09 10 11 Comments on the consolidated income statements 85 Consolidated balance sheets As of 31 December Restated SEKm Note 2011 2010 1) ASSETS Non-current assets Goodwill 10 5,992 5,931 Other intangible assets 10 4,165 4,263 Property, plant and equipment 11 13,076 12,922 Long-term financial assets 14 1,401 1,257 Deferred tax assets 9 1,299 1,151 Investments in jointly controlled and associated companies 12 11 87 Other long-term assets 18 82 67 26,026 25,678 Current assets Inventories 13 14,191 12,879 Trade receivables 14 10,713 9,859 Tax receivables 326 261 Other short-term assets 15 2,781 2,190 Assets held for sale 4 – 388 Other short-term financial assets 14 512 751 Cash and cash equivalents 14 4,825 2,395 33,348 28,723 Total assets 59,374 54,401 EQUIT Y AND LIABILITIES Share capital 16 1,138 1,138 Share premium 564 564 Available-for-sale reserve 174 434 Hedging reserve -82 61 Translation reserve -1,170 -1,127 Retained earnings 20,812 17,865 Equity attributable to owners of AB SKF 21,436 18,935 Equity attributable to non-controlling interests 1,019 959 22,455 19,894 Non-current liabilities Long-term financial liabilities 20 12,500 10,850 Provisions for post-employment benefits 18 8,634 7,093 Deferred tax provisions 9 938 1,309 Other long-term provisions 19 1,477 1,560 Other long-term liabilities 125 62 23,674 20,874 Current liabilities Trade payables 20 4,698 4,476 Tax payables 815 842 Short-term provisions 19 359 602 Other short-term financial liabilities 20 1,113 1,325 Other short-term liabilities 22 6,260 6,082 Liabilities related to assets held for sale 4 – 306 13,245 13,633 Total equity and liabilities 59,374 54,401 1) Restated for finalized Lincoln PPA, see Note 1. 86 Consolidated balance sheets ofofannual annualnet netsales sales Equity/Assets, Equity/Assets,%%1)1) 2525 20.9 21.1 21.4 5050 20.9 21.1 21.4 37.8 35.8 36.6 37.8 2020 4040 35.8 36.6 1515 3030 1010 2020 55 1010 00 00 0909 1010 1111 0909 1010 1111 Amounts in parentheses refer to comparable figures for 2010. During 2011, equity increased by SEK 2,561 m (-1,796). In 2011 SEK 2,277m (1,594) was distributed as ordinary dividend to the shareCash Cashflow flowafter after Assets and liabilities holders of AB SKF. For further details, see Note 16. investments, investments,before before Inventories amounted to SEK 14,191 m (12,879) which as a percentage financing Netfinancing sales sales The target for the Group is 18%. Net(21.1). Profitbefore Profit beforetaxes taxes of annual sales is 21.4% Financing Additions Additionstotoproperty, property, Trade receivables amounted to SEK 10,713 m (9,859) which as a At year end, total interest-bearing andequipment plantand plant loans amounted to SEK 12,851 m equipment 66,216 8,932 percentage of annual net sales is 16.2% (16.2). The average days of (11,796). Post-employment benefits, net amounted to SEK 8,599 m 1,839 8,932 80,000 80,000 61,029 66,216 10,000 56,227 7,549 10,000 61,029 outstanding trade receivables were 60 days (58). The target for the 5,752 (7,047). Financial assets totalled SEK 6,738 m (4,403) of which SEK 1,6517,549 1,839 1,975 56,227 5,752 60,000The Group’s equity/assets ratio was 37.8% (36.6 ) Group is 5760,000 days. 5,337 m (3,146) 1,975 consisted of current financial assets. Changes in net 1,651 1) 7,500 7,500 6,000 6,000 3,848 2,000 2,000 and gearing was 48.9% (48.6). The target is to operate around 35% 3,848 interest bearing liabilities are disclosed in the Group’s Consolidated 40,000 40,000 4,000 4,000 5,000 5,000 and 50% respectively. The net debt/equity ratio was 72.5% (80.5). statement of cash 1,500 flow. 1,500 2,297 Provisions for post-employment 2,000 2,000 -2,838 benefits increased some SEK 2,297 20,000 20,000 2,500 2,500 1,300 m due to actuarial -2,838 gains and losses, see Note 18. 1,000 1,000 00 0 0 0909 1010 1111 00 -2,000 0909 -2,000 1010 1111 500 500 09 1010 1111 09 -4,000 -4,000 00 0909 1010 1111 Inventories, Inventories,%% ofofannual annualnet netsales sales Equity/Assets, Equity/Assets, Paid Paiddividend dividend%per %1)per 1) AAand andBBshare, share,SEK SEK 2525 20.9 21.1 21.4 5050 20.9 21.1 21.4 37.8 5.50 2020 35.8 36.6 5.00 37.8 5.50 40 640 6 35.8 36.6 5.00 1515 530 30 5 3.50 44 3.50 1010 2020 33 55 1010 22 00 00 1 1 0909 1010 1111 0909 1010 1111 00 1010 1111 1212 Cash Cashflow flowafter after investments, investments,before before Gearing,%% Gearing, Net Netdebt debt/equity, /equity,%% financing financing Additions Additionstotoproperty, property, plant plantand andequipment equipment 6060 48.6 48.9 5,752 49.3 48.9 100 100 80.5 48.6 80.5 1,975 1,83972.5 5,752 49.3 5050 8080 68.9 4040 1,975 68.9 1,839 72.5 6,000 6,000 3,848 6060 2,000 2,000 1,651 3030 3,848 1,651 4,000 4,000 4040 2020 1,500 1,500 -2,838 2,000 1010 2,000 2020 00 -2,838 1,000 1,000 0 0 00 0909 09 1010 10 1111 11 0909 1010 1111 09 10 11 500 500 -2,000 -2,000 -4,000 -4,000 00 0909 1010 1111 Comments on the consolidated balance sheets 87 Consolidated statements of cash flow Years ended 31 December SEKm Note 2011 2010 Operating activities Operating profit 9,612 8,452 Adjustments for Depreciation, amortization and impairment 6 1,790 1,992 Net gain (-)/loss on sales of property, plant and equipment and equity securities -24 -5 Other non-cash items 251 -696 Income taxes paid -2,858 -1,722 Contributions to and payments under post-employment defined benefit plans -486 -466 Jointly controlled and associated companies 2 -2 Changes in working capital Inventories -1,270 -1,438 Trade receivables -892 -1,315 Trade payables 219 809 Other operating assets and liabilities, net -452 728 Interest received 93 160 Interest paid -442 -357 Other financial items 43 -589 Net cash flow from operating activities 5,586 5,551 Investing activities Additions to intangible assets 10 -89 -46 Additions to property, plant and equipment 11 -1,839 -1,651 Sales of property, plant and equipment 75 95 Acquisitions of non-controlling interests and businesses, net of cash and cash equivalents acquired 3 -6 -6,799 Sales of businesses net of cash 4 125 12 Investments in equity securities -4 Net cash flow used in investing activities -1,738 -8,389 Net cash flow after investments before financing 3,848 -2,838 Financing activities Proceeds from mediumand long-term loans 5,495 4,654 Repayment of mediumand long-term loans -4,632 -2,321 Change in short-term loans 10 -52 Other, including payment of finance lease liabilities -8 -11 Cash dividends to AB SKF’s shareholders -2,277 -1,594 Cash dividends to non-controlling shareholders -30 -28 Investments in financial and other assets -218 -788 Sales of financial and other assets 240 996 Net cash flow used in financing activities -1,420 856 Increase(+)/decrease(-) in cash and cash equivalents 2,428 -1,982 Cash and cash equivalents at 1 January 2,395 4,430 Cash effect excluding acquired/sold businesses 2,477 -2,265 Cash effect from acquired/sold businesses 3, 4 -49 283 Translation effect 2 -53 Cash and cash equivalents at 31 December 4,825 2,395 88 Consolidated statements of cash flow 40,000 5,000 2,297 20,000 2,500 0 0 09 10 11 09 10 11 Amounts in parentheses refer to comparable figures for 2010 Net cash flow used in investing activities The Group’s capital expenditures for property, plant and equipment General amounted to SEK 1,839 m (1,651), whereof approximately SEK 65 m The Consolidated statements of cash flows have been adjusted for (121) was spent on internal and external environmental improvements. exchange rates arising upon the translation of foreign subsidiaries’ In 2011 the Group’s cash outflow for acquisitions of business and balance sheets to SEK, as these do not represent cash flows. non-controlling interests was SEK 6 m. In 2010 the cash outflows were SEK 6,799 m mainly attributable to the acquisition of Lincoln Cash flow after investments before financing see Note 3. Cash flow after investments before financing, which is the primary cash flow measurement used in the Group, amounted to SEK 3,848 m Cash flow from financing activities Inventories, % s (-2,838). Profit before taxes Interest-bearing loans totalled SEK 12,851 m (11,796) at year end. of annual net sales Equity/Assets, % 1) During the year, the SKF Group arranged new long term ­financing Net cash flow from operating activities of EUR 500 m and SEK 1,000 m. Loans amounting to EUR 400 m, 66,216 8,932 EUR 50Profit m andbefore Gross Net cashsales taxes 61,029 flow, defined as operating10,000 profit plus depreciation, SEK 556 m were repaid during the year. 21.1 21.4 7,549 20.9 25 ­amortization and impairment, amounted to SEK 11,402 m (10,444). 50 Post-employment benefits, net, amounted to SEK 8,599 m (7,047). 36.6 37.8 35.8 7,500 66,216 The gross 20 cash flow was 17.2% (17.1) of annual net sales. The increase Interest40 payments amounted to SEK 442 m (357) and interest 8,932 61,029 80,000 10,000 56,227 7,549 was mainly 15 caused by an improvement5,000 in operating profit. received to SEK 93 m (160). 30 Other non-cash items include certain expenses for which cash flow 60,000 2,297 The change in cash and cash equivalents was SEK 2,430 m 7,500 10 2,500items being operating 20 has not yet occurred. The most significant (-2,035). In 2011, changes in exchange rates affected cash and cash 40,000 5 on post-employment defined benefits plans and provisions. expenses 5,000 10 by SEK 2 m (-53) mainly attributable to USD and EUR. equivalents 2,297 0 10 11 0 09 10 11 0 20,000 2,500 09 10 11 09 10 11 0 2011 0 2011 09 10 11 ­C losing Cash 09 Businesses 10 11 Other nonTranslation Opening Change in net interest-bearing liabilities (SEKm) ­b alance change ­acquired/sold cash changes effect ­b alance Loans Cash flow after 1) 12,851 873 – -52 234 11,796 investments, Post-employment before benefits, net 2) 8,599 -486 – 1,969 69 7,047 financing Other financial assets, other3) -1,021 22Additions to –property, -64 34 -1,013 Cash and cash equivalents -4,825 49 -2,477plant and equipment – -2 -2,395 Net interest-bearing liabilities 15,604 -2,068 49 1,853 335 15,435 ries, % 5,752 Equity/Assets, % 1) 1,975 1,839 al net sales 3,848 1,651 6,000 2010 2,000 2010 % Inventories, 4,000 ­ losing C Cash Businesses Other nonTranslation Opening Change in net interest-bearing liabilities (SEKm) ­b alance 1,500 change ­acquired cash changes ­effect ­b alance of annual net sales Equity/Assets, % 1) -2,838 2,000 21.1 21.4 Loans 1) 50 11,796 2,281 1,000 – 54 -1,289 10,750 0 Post-employment benefits, net 2) 36.6 37.8 7,047 -466 163 1,127 -770 6,993 40 35.8 09 10 11 Other financial assets, other3) -2,000 -1,013 208 500 -2 217 76 -1,512 25 Cash 20.9 and cash equivalents 21.1 21.4 30 -2,395 50 2,265 -283 – 53 -4,430 -4,000 0 36.6 37.8 Net20interest-bearing liabilities 20 15,435 35.8 40 4,288 09 -122 11 10 1,398 -1,930 11,801 15 10 30 1) Excludes derivatives, see Note 20. 2) 10 non-cash changes includes actuarial gains Other 0 and losses as well as expenses on defined 20 benefits plans. 10 11 09and cash 10 equivalent, 11 3) Other 5 financial assets exclude equity securities, cash derivatives and include other long-term assets less defined benefit assets. 10 0 0 09 10 11 09 10 11 w after ents, before g Cash flow after Additions to property, Paid dividend per investments, before plant and equipment A and B share, SEK financing Additions to property, 1,975 1,839 plant and equipment The Board of Directors’ 5.50 3,848 2,000 1,651 6 5.00 ­proposed distribution of 5 ­surplus for the year 2011, 5,752 1,975 1,839 1,500 4 3.50 which is subject to approval at -2,838 3,848 1,651 6,000 2,000 1,000 3 the Annual General Meeting 4,000 10 11 1,500 2 in April 2012, includes an 500 -2,838 2,000 1 ordinary dividend of SEK 5.50 1,000 0 0 0 per share, see Note 16. 09 10 11 09 10 11 10 11 12 -2,000 500 -4,000 0 09 10 11 Gearing, % Net debt /equity, % Comments on the consolidated statements of cash flow 89 60 49.3 48.6 48.9 100 80.5 50 8.9 72.5 80 Consolidated statements of changes in equity Equity attributable to owners of AB SKF AvailableNon-­ Share Share for-sale Hedging Translation Retained controlling SEKm ­c apital ­premium ­reserve ­reserve reserve earnings Subtotal interests Total Opening balance 1/1/2010 1,138 564 265 47 669 14,728 17,411 869 18,280 Net profit – – – – – 5,138 5,138 158 5,296 Components of other comprehensive income Currency translation adjustments – – – – -1,634 – -1,634 -26 -1,660 Change in fair value of available-for-sale assets and cash flow hedges – – 169 30 – – 199 – 199 Release of cash flow hedges – – – -12 – – -12 – -12 Actuarial gains and losses – – – – – -616 -616 – -616 Income taxes related to components of other comprehensive income – – – -4 -169 229 56 – 56 Cost for Performance Share Programmes, net 1) – – – – – 8 8 – 8 Dividends – – – – – -1,594 -1,594 -28 -1,622 Acquisition of non-controlling interests – – – – 7 -28 -21 -14 -35 Closing balance 31/12/2010 1,138 564 434 61 -1,127 17,865 18,935 959 19,894 Net profit – – – – – 6,051 6,051 173 6,224 Components of other comprehensive income Currency translation adjustments – – – – -16 – -16 -80 -96 Change in fair value of available-for-sale assets and cash flow hedges – – -260 -68 – – -328 – -328 Release of cash flow hedges – – – -127 – – -127 – -127 Actuarial gains and losses – – – – – -1,332 -1,332 -4 -1,336 Income taxes related to components of other comprehensive income – – – 52 -27 446 471 1 472 Cost for Performance Share Programmes, net 1) – – – – – 59 59 – 59 Dividends – – – – – -2,277 -2,277 -30 -2,307 Closing balance 31/12/2011 1,138 564 174 -82 -1,170 20,812 21,436 1,019 22,455 1) See Note 25 for details. Available-for-sale reserve Translation reserve The available-for-sale reserve accumulates changes in the fair value Exchange differences relating to the translation from the functional of available-for-sale assets, with the exception of impairment losses currencies of the SKF Group’s foreign subsidiaries into SEK are which are recognized directly in the income statement. See Note 1 for ­accumulated in the translation reserve. Upon the sale of a foreign the accounting principles and Note 14 for details on available-for-sale operation, the accumulated translation amounts are recycled to the assets. income statement and included in the gain or loss on the disposal. Additionally, gains and losses on hedging instruments meeting the Hedging reserve criteria for hedges of net investments in foreign operations, are The hedging reserve accumulates activity related to cash flow hedges, recognized in the translation reserve net of tax. See Note 28 for both changes in fair value as well as amounts released to the income details. statement. See Note 1 for accounting principles and Note 28 for details on the activity during the year. 90 Consolidated statements of changes in equity Notes to the consolidated financial statements Amounts in SEKm unless otherwise stated. Amounts in parentheses refer to comparable figures for 2010. 1 Accounting policies Critical accounting policies the date control is obtained. The cost of acquisition is the sum of the purchase price and the fair value of the previously held equity interest. Basis of presentation Any excess of the cost of acquisition over fair values of net identifiable The consolidated financial statements of the SKF Group are prepared assets of the acquired business is recognized as goodwill. If such fair in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) values exceed the cost of acquisition, this excess is credited to the as adopted by the European Union (EU). Furthermore, the Group is income statement in the period of acquisition. Acquisition related in compliance with the Swedish Financial Reporting Board’s RFR 1, costs are expensed as incurred, rather than included in the cost of Supplementary Accounting Rules for Groups, as well as their interthe acquisition. pretations (UFR). This purchase price allocation, PPA (the process of allocating the The annual report of the Parent company, AB SKF, has been signed acquisition cost to the net identifiable assets acquired and goodwill), by the Board of Directors on 26 January 2012. The income statement is required by IFRS to be completed within twelve months of the and balance sheet, and the consolidated income statement and conacquisition date. Once the PPA has been reviewed and approved by solidated ­balance sheet are subject to adoption at the Annual General management, goodwill is allocated to the cash generating units Meeting on 25 April 2012. (“CGUs”) expected to benefit from the synergies of the acquisition. The consolidated financial statements are prepared on the historical Goodwill is not amortized, but is tested for impairment annually and cost basis except as disclosed in the accounting policies below. whenever there is an indication of impairment. Basis of consolidation Investments in jointly controlled and associated companies The consolidated financial statements include the Parent company, Companies in which the Group has a significant influence, are referred AB SKF, and each of those companies in which it directly or indirectly, to as associated companies. Significant influence is the power to parexercises control. Control is defined as the power to govern the financial ticipate in the financial and operating policy decisions of the investee and operating policies of a company in order to obtain benefit from and is usually achieved when the Group owns 20-50% of the voting its activities. Such control is usually achieved with an ownership rights. Investments in associated companies are reported in accord­representing more than 50% of the voting rights. AB SKF and its ance with the equity method. ­subsidiaries are referred to as “the SKF Group” or “the Group”. Investments, where the Group as a venturer and together with Consolidated equity includes the Parent company’s equity and other venturers, jointly control the investment through a contractual the part of the equity in subsidiaries arising after the ­subsidiary’s arrangement between the venturers, are defined as jointly controlled acquisition. entities. Such investments are accounted for using the equity method. Non-controlling interests are shown as a separate category Under the equity method, the carrying value of the investment is within equity with a specification of their share of net profit and total equal to the Group’s share of equity in the company, determined in comprehensive income. accordance with the accounting policies of the Group, as well as any Intercompany accounts, transactions and unrealized profits have goodwill or other fair value adjustments arising upon acquisition less been eliminated in the consolidated financial statements. any impairment. The Group’s share in the result of these companies is based on their pre-tax profit/loss and taxes, respectively. Business combinations and goodwill All business combinations are accounted for in accordance with the Classification purchase method. At the date of acquisition, the acquired assets, The assets and liabilities classified as current are expected to be assumed liabilities and contingent liabilities (net identifiable assets) recovered or settled within twelve months from the balance sheet are measured at fair value, which requires the use of estimates. date. All assets and liabilities expected to be recovered or settled later Acquired land, buildings and equipment are either appraised by are classified as non-current. No other liabilities than loans, financial independent valuers, or internally appraised with reference to leases and certain derivative instruments are expected to be settled observable market data. Financial assets and liabilities (including later than five years from the balance sheet date. post-employment benefits), as well as inventories, are valued using references to available market information. The fair values of Segment information ­significant intangible assets are derived either with the assistance The Group has three reportable operating segments, Industrial of independent valuation experts, or developed internally using ­Division, Service Division and Automotive Division. appropriate valuation techniques generally based on forecasted Operating segments are identified based on the internal structure future cash flows. of the Group’s business activities whose operating results are reguIn a business combination achieved in stages, where control is larly reviewed by the chief operating decision maker (CODM) in order obtained, any previously held equity interest is remeasured at its to allocate resources and to assess performance. The Group’s internal acquisition-date fair value and the gain or loss is recognized in the reporting and consequently information to the CODM is structured income statement. The acquired entity is fully consolidated as from into the Industrial Division, the Service Division and the Automotive Notes Group 91 1 Accounting policies (cont.) Division and Other operations, each being customer segments Translation of foreign financial statements ­representing groups of related industrial and automotive products. AB SKF’s functional currency is the Swedish kronor (SEK), which is The industrial market is characterized by a large diversity of also the Group’s reporting currency. ­customers. However, there are two distinct customers groups within All foreign subsidiaries report in their functional currency being the the industrial market, original equipment manufacturing (OEM) currency of the primary economic environment in which the subsidiary ­customers and aftermarket customers. The Industrial and Service operates. Upon consolidation, all balance sheet items are translated to Divisions serve this industrial market, where the Industrial Division is SEK based on the year-end exchange rates. Income statement items primarily responsible for sales to the OEM customers while Service are translated at average exchange rates. The accumulated exchange Division is primarily responsible for the aftermarket customers. differences arising from these translations are recognized via other The Automotive Division is responsible for all sales to the auto­ comprehensive income to the translation reserve in equity. Such motive market. This includes the OEM customers being car and truck translation ­differences are reclassified into the income statement and similar vehicle manufacturers. It also includes the aftermarket upon the disposal of the foreign operation. customers providing complete repair kits for the vehicle service ­market. Translation of items denominated in foreign currency The measurement principles for the Group’s segments are based Transactions in foreign currencies during the year have been transon the IFRS principles adopted in the consolidated financial statelated at the exchange rate prevailing at the respective transaction ments. Sales and other transactions between segments are based on date. market conditions. Assets and liabilities denominated in a foreign currency, primarily Segment assets include all operating assets used and controlled by receivables and payables and loans, have been translated at the a segment and consist principally of property, plant and equipment, exchange rates prevailing at the balance sheet date. Exchange gains intangibles, external trade receivables, inventories, other receivables, and losses related to trade receivables and payables and other operprepayments and accrued income. ating receivables and payables are included in other operating income Segment liabilities include all operating liabilities used and and other operating expenses. The exchange gains and losses relating ­controlled by a segment and consist principally of external trade to other financial assets and liabilities are included in financial income ­pay­a bles, other provisions, accrued expenses and deferred income. and financial expenses. Segment profit represents the business result generated by the capital employed of the division and includes some centrally Revenue allocated corporate expenses. Revenue consists of sales of products or services in the normal course Reconciling items to Group amounts are mainly related to consoliof business. Service revenues are defined as business activities, billed dation eliminations, unallocated items, and some timing differences. to a customer, that do not include physical products or where the Unallocated items include all tax items and items of a financial, inter­supply of any product is subsidiary to the fulfillment of the contract. est-bearing nature, including post-employment benefit assets and Sales are recorded net of allowances for volume rebates and sales provisions. Unallocated items also include exchange differences on returns. Accruals for such allowances are recorded at the time of trade receivables and payables and items related to certain central ­revenue recognition. corporate activities, including research and development. Additionally Revenue is recognized when the significant risks and rewards of timing differences exist related to profit allocation linked to intraownership have been transferred to the buyer. Revenue from the sale Group sales. of goods and services is generally recognized when (1) an arrangement Asymmetrical allocations affecting the ­segments relate primarily to with a customer exists, (2) delivery has occurred or services have post-employment benefits where non-financial expenses are allocated been rendered, (3) the price is fixed or determinable and (4) ­collection to the segments although the related provision is not. Additionally of the amount due is reasonably assured. inter-segment receivables and payables relating to sales between Contracts and customer purchase orders are generally used to segments, are not allocated to the segments as such items are sold ­determine the existence of such an arrangement. Shipping documents to and settled directly with SKF Treasury Centre, the Group’s internal and customer acceptance are used, when applicable, to verify delivery. bank, thereby becoming financial in nature. Exchange rates The following exchange rates have been used when translating the financial statements of foreign subsidiaries operating in the countries shown below into SEK: Average rates Year-end rates Country Unit Currency 2011 2010 2011 2010 China 1 CNY 1.00 1.07 1.10 1.03 EMU-countries 1 EUR 9.02 9.54 8.95 9.00 India 100 INR 13.88 15.78 12.98 15.14 Japan 100 JPY 8.11 8.26 8.92 8.34 United Kingdom 1 GBP 10.36 11.15 10.67 10.53 USA 1 USD 6.45 7.23 6.92 6.80 92 Notes Group Whether the price is fixed or determinable is assessed based on • Customer relationships normally 10-15 years; the payment terms associated with the transaction. Collectibility is • Capitalized development expenditures normally 3-7 years; assessed based primarily on the creditworthiness of the customer • Other intangible assets normally from 3-5 years, with the exception as determined by credit limit control and approval procedures, of certain acquired intangible assets which have a useful life of up to as well as the customer’s payment history. Approval procedures 18 years; include approval of new customers by management. • Those intangible assets where there is no foreseeable limit to the Revenues from service and/or maintenance contracts where the period over which the asset is expected to generate net cash flows, service is delivered to the customer at a fixed price is accounted for are considered to have indefinite useful lives, and no amortization is on a straight-line basis over the duration of the contract or under made. However these assets are tested for impairment annually the percentage-of completion method based on the ratio of actual and whenever there is an indication that the carrying value may not costs incurred to total estimated costs expected to be incurred. Any be recoverable. ­anticipated losses on contracts are recognized in full in the period Amortization is included in cost of goods sold, selling or administrative in which losses become probable and estimable. expenses depending on where the assets have been used. Property, plant and equipment (PPE) Internally developed intangibles Machinery and supply systems, land, buildings, tools, office equipThe Group’s most significant internally developed intangibles are ment and vehicles are stated in the balance sheet at cost, less any related to product development and software for internal use. accumulated depreciation and impairment losses. Borrowing costs ­Development expenditures are capitalized when in management’s are included in the cost of property plant and equipment for which judgment it is probable that they will result in future economic construction commenced on or after 1 January 2009, if a substan­benefits for the Group and the expenditures during the development tial period of time is required to get the asset ready for its intended phase can be reliably measured. The Group applies stringent criteria use. The Group considers a period in excess of one year to be a subbefore a development project results in the recording of an asset, stantial period of time. which include the ability to complete the project, evidence of technical A component approach to depreciation is applied. This means feasibility and market existence, intention and ability to use or sell the that where items of PPE are comprised of different components asset. In evaluating product development projects, management having a cost significant in relation to the total cost of the items, ­considers the existence of a customer order as significant evidence of such components are depreciated separately. Depreciation is protechnological and economic feasibility. In evaluating internal use softvided on a straight-line basis and is calculated based on cost. The ware, management considers new functionality and /or increased rates of depreciation are based on the estimated useful lives of the standard of performance to be strong evidence that future economic assets, which are subject to annual review. These useful lives are benefits will be achieved. based upon estimates of the periods during which the assets will All other research expenditures as well as development expendigenerate revenue and are based to a large extent on historical tures not meeting the capitalization criteria are charged to cost of experience of usage and technological development. The useful goods sold in the income statement when incurred. lives are: • 33 years for buildings and installations; Leases • 10-20 years for machinery and supply systems; A lease agreement that, according to the management’s judgment, • 10 years for control systems within machinery and transfers substantially all the benefits and risks of ownership to the supply systems; Group, is accounted for as a finance lease. Finance leases are initially • 4-5 years for tools, office equipment and vehicles. recorded as property, plant and equipment at an amount equal to the Depreciation is included in cost of goods sold, selling or administrapresent value of the minimum lease payments during the lease term tive expenses depending on where the assets have been used. and as a finance lease obligation. Finance leases are depreciated in a manner consistent with the Group’s useful lives for owned property, Assets classified as held for sale plant and equipment. Lease payments are apportioned between the Assets and disposal groups are classified as held for sale when finance charge and the reduction in the outstanding finance lease they are available for immediate sale in their present condition and ­obligation. The finance charge is allocated to periods during the management is committed to the sale. The sale must be highly lease term as to produce a constant periodic rate of interest on the ­probable such that it is expected to be completed within one year. remaining balance of the liability for each period. Assets and disposal groups classified as held for sale are valued Other leases are accounted for as operating leases, where rental at the lower of carrying amount and fair value less cost to sell. expenses are recognized in the income statement, on a straight-line Property, plant and equipment classified as held for sale are not basis, over the lease term. depreciated as they will be recovered principally through a sales transaction rather than through continuing use. Inventories Inventories are stated at the lower of cost (first-in, first-out basis) Intangible assets other than goodwill or market value (net realizable value). Raw materials and purchased Intangible assets other than goodwill are stated at initial cost less finished goods are valued at purchase cost. Work in process and any accumulated amortization and impairment losses. Amortization manu­factured finished goods are valued at production cost. Producis made on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives, tion cost includes direct production cost such as material and labour, which are subject to annual review. The useful lives are based to a as well as manufacturing overhead as appropriate. large extent on historical experience, the expected application, as Adjustments to the cost of inventory may be necessary when the well as other individual characteristics of the asset. The useful cost exceeds net realizable value. Net realizable value is defined as lives are: selling price less costs to complete and costs to sell. The estimates • Patents and similar rights up to 11 years; used in determining net realizable value are a source of estimation • Software normally 4 years; Notes Group 93 1 Accounting policies (cont.) uncertainty. As future selling prices and selling costs are not known • Available-for-sale at the time of assessment, management’s best estimates are used Debt securities are categorized as available-for-sale, except if held by based on current price and cost levels. Adjustments to net realizable SKF Treasury Centre and strategic investments in equity securities. value also include estimates of technical and commercial obsolescence Changes in the fair value of these financial ­instruments are recognized on an individual subsidiary basis. Commercial obsolescence is assessed in other comprehensive income, except for impairment losses which by the rate of turnover as a risk indicator. are recognized in the income statement. Reversals of impairment losses are recognized in the income statement for debt securities Long-term employee benefits but in other comprehensive income for equity securities. When the Employee benefits, which are both earned and paid out during investments are derecognised, the cumulative gain or loss recognized employment, and are expected to be settled more than twelve months in the available-for-sale reserve is released and recognized in the after they are earned yet before employment ends, are long-term income statement. The fair values of quoted equity securities and debt employee benefits. These include part-time retirements programmes, securities held are based on the current bid price for the securities. anniversary bonuses, long-stay and jubilee payments. All such pro­ Equity securities without a quoted price are held at cost because their grammes are calculated using the projected unit credit method and fair value cannot be measured reliably. appropriate assumptions, as described under post-employment ­benefits, except that all actuarial gains and losses are recognized • Loans and receivables immediately in the income statement. Financial assets categorized as loans and receivables are non-­ derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments that Financial assets and financial liabilities are not quoted in an active market. Loans and receivables include General trade receivables, loans granted, funds held with banks and deposits A financial instrument is any contract that gives rise to a financial comprising principally of funds held with landlords and other service asset of one entity and a financial liability or equity instrument of providers, for which substantially all initial investment is expected to another entity. Financial assets include, in particular, cash and be recovered. cash equivalents, trade receivables and other originated loans and Loans and receivables are measured at amortized cost using receivables, equity securities and derivative assets. Financial ­liabilities the effective interest method. Impairment losses are recognized if generally substantiate claims for repayment in cash or another financial manage­ment believes that sufficient objective evidence exists indicatasset. In particular, this includes bonds, trade ­payables, liabilities to ing that the asset may not be recovered. On occurrence of default, banks, finance lease payables and derivative ­liabilities. loans and receivables are derecognised. For disclosure purposes, fair values have been calculated using valuation techniques, mainly Recognition discounted cash flow analyses based on observable market data. Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognized on the Group’s balance sheets when the Group becomes a party to the contractual • Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss provisions of the instrument. Settlement day recognition is applied for This ­c ategory has two sub-categories: financial assets held for trading regular way purchases and sales of financial assets. Derivatives are and those designated at fair value through profit or loss at inception. recognized at trade date. Financial instruments are initially recorded The fair value of assets in these sub-categories is based on quoted at fair value, which is normally equal to cost. Transaction costs are market prices or measured using valuation techniques, mainly disincluded in the initial measurement of financial assets and liabilities counted cash flow analyses based on observable market data. that are not subsequently measured at fair value through the income Financial ­instruments are designated at fair value through profit or statement. In general, financial assets and financial liabilities are loss when the Group manages such investments and makes purchase ­offset and the net amount presented in the balance sheet when the and sale decisions based on their fair value. Derivatives are categorized Group currently has a right to set off the recognized amounts and as held for trading unless subject to hedge accounting. intends to settle on a net basis. • Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss Classification and Measurement Derivatives with a negative fair value that are not subject to hedge Subsequent measurement depends on the classification of the accounting are classified as held for trading and reported at fair value ­instrument, as determined by management. through profit and loss. Measurements used are cost, amortized cost and fair value. All valuation techniques applied to determine fair value, either for valuation • Other financial liabilities or disclosure purposes, are accepted in the market and take into Financial liabilities, excluding derivatives, are measured at amortized account parameters that the market would consider in its pricing of cost using the effective interest method. The carrying amount of similar instruments. Where discounted cash flow techniques are used, ­liabilities that are hedged items, for which fair value hedge accounting the future cash flows are determined (if not stated explicit in the conis applied, are adjusted for gains or losses attributable to the hedged tract) based on the best assessment by management and discounted risks. For disclosure purposes, fair values of financial liabilities have using the market interest rate for similar instruments. been calculated using valuation techniques, mainly discounted cash Fair value of foreign exchange contracts is determined based on the flow analyses based on observable market data. listed price on the balance sheet date. The fair value of interest rate swaps is determined by applying discounted cash flow techniques. Fair value hierarchy For receivables and liabilities with variable interest rates and current Financial instruments at fair value are classified in a hierarchy that receivables and liabilities (such as trade receivables and payables) the shows the significance of the inputs used in the measurements. carrying amount is considered to correspond to fair value. Level 1 includes financial instruments with a quoted price in an active 94 Notes Group market. Level 2 includes financial instruments with inputs based on Fair value hedges observable data other than quoted prices in an active market. Level 3 Hedge accounting is applied to derivative financial instru­ments which includes financial instruments with inputs that are not based on are effective in hedging the exposure to changes in fair value in foreign observable market data. borrowing. The currency and interest risk exposure is hedged by cross-currency interest rate swaps. Changes in the fair value of these Derecognition derivative financial instruments designated as hedging instruments Financial assets are derecognized when the contractual rights to the and meeting the criteria for fair value hedges are recognized in the cash flow have expired or been transferred together with substantially income statement under financial items. The carrying amount of the all risks and rewards. Financial liabilities are derecognized when they hedged item is adjusted for the gain or loss attributable to the hedged are extinguished. risk. The gain or loss is recognized in the income statement under financial items. Allowance for doubtful accounts Management maintains an allowance for doubtful accounts for Hedges of net investments in foreign operations expected losses on trade receivables resulting from the inability of Hedge accounting is applied to financial instruments which are customers to make required payments. When evaluating the need for ­effective in offsetting the exposure to translation differences arising an allowance, management considers the aging of accounts receivable when the net assets of ­foreign operations are translated into the balances, historical write-off experience, customer creditworthiness ­Parent company’s functional currency. Any gain or loss on the and changes in customer­­payment terms. ­hedging instrument meeting the criteria for hedges of net investments is ­recognized in the foreign currency translation reserve Cash and cash equivalents via other ­comprehensive income. Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash in hand, bank deposits, debt securities and other liquid investments that have a maturity of three Financial income and financial expenses months or less at the time of acquisition. Financial income consists of interest income on funds invested, dividend income and gains on the disposal of financial assets availableHedge accounting for-sale. Financial expenses consists of interest expense on financial General liabilities, the discounting effect of provisions and impairment losses The Group applies hedges aimed at reducing risks related to the volarecognized on financial assets. Foreign exchange gains on loans and tility of balance sheet items and future cash flows, which otherwise receivables and other financial liabilities are recognized in financial would affect the income statement. A distinction is made between income while the foreign exchange losses are recognized in financial cash flow hedges, fair value hedges and hedges of net investment in expense. foreign operations based on the nature of the hedged item. Hedge accounting is used to reflect the outcome of the hedges in the financial Share-based compensation statements. Derivative instruments which provide effective economic The share-based compensation programmes of the Group are mainly hedges, but which either do not qualify for hedge accounting under equity-settled. The instruments granted are shares and the fair value IAS 39 or are otherwise not designated for hedge accounting by the is the market value at grant date reduced by the present value of Group, are accounted for as trading instruments. Changes in the fair future dividends which the employees will not receive until the shares value of these economic hedges are immediately recognized in the are delivered. The dividend compensation amount is recognized as income statement as financial income or expense or in the operating employee benefit expense separately from the share-based compenresult depending on the nature of the hedged item. sation expense. The estimated cost for these programmes, which is based on the Cash flow hedges fair value of the instruments at grant date and the number of instruHedge accounting is applied to derivative financial instruments, which ments expected to vest, is recognized both in equity and as an operatare effective in offsetting the variability in the cash flows from foreing expense over the vesting period. The cost for the ­programmes is casted net sales and forecasted electricity consumption. Forward adjusted annually by the expectations of vesting and for the forfeiexchange contracts are used as hedge instruments for forecasted net tures of the participants’ rights that no longer satisfy the programme sales and electricity derivatives for forecasted electricity consump­conditions. tion. Changes in the fair value of the derivative financial instruments To fulfill AB SKF’s obligations under the Performance Share Prodesignated as hedge instruments that meet the criteria for hedging gramme 2008 which was settled 2011, SKF International AB entered future cash flows are recognized in the hedging reserve in equity via into an equity swap agreement with a financial institution. The agreeother comprehensive income. ment includes the possibility to get delivery of SKF shares from the In the same period during which the forecasted net sales and financial institution to the participants of the program. As the financial ­electricity consumption affects the income statement, the cumulative institution’s acquisition of SKF B shares is equivalent to, from an gain or loss recognized in the hedging reserve is recycled to the accounting perspective only, a repurchase of treasury shares in income statement and included in net sales and cost of goods sold, accordance with IAS 32, the difference between the fair value at grant respectively. When a hedge relationship is terminated, but the hedged date and the share price is recorded as a decrease in equity. transaction is still expected to occur, the cumulative gain or loss at A provision for social costs to be paid by the employer in connection that point remains in the hedging reserve, and is recognized in the with share-based compensation programmes is calculated based on income statement when the committed or forecasted transaction is the fair value of the SKF B-share at each reporting date and expensed recognized in the income statement. However, if the hedged trans­ over the vesting period. action is no longer expected to occur, the cumulative gain or loss A minor part of the remuneration granted to the Board of Directors reported in the hedging reserve in equity is transferred via other of the Parent company is a cash-settled share-based compensation. comprehensive income to the income statement as net sales or cost The liability and expense incurred is recognized over the period when of goods sold depending on the nature of the hedged item. the services are rendered. At each balance sheet date, and ultimately Notes Group 95 1 Accounting policies (cont.) at settlement date, the fair value of the liability is remeasured with Impairment of intangible assets and property, any changes in fair value recognized in the income statement for the plant and equipment period. Assets with definite useful lives Intangible assets with definite useful lives and property, plant and Earnings per share equipment are tested for impairment whenever events or changes in Basic earnings per share is calculated by dividing the net profit or loss circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable. attributable to shareholders of the Parent company by the weighted The determination is usually performed at the cash generating unit average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the period. (CGU) level but could also be at the individual asset level. Factors that Diluted earnings per share is calculated using the weighted average are considered important are: number of shares outstanding during the period adjusted for all • Underperformance relative to historical and forecasted operating potentially dilutive ordinary shares. Performance shares are considresults; ered dilutive if vesting conditions are fulfilled on the balance sheet • Significant negative industry or economic trends; date. • Significant changes relative to the asset including plans to dis­ continue or restructure the operation to which the asset belongs. Income taxes When there is an indication that the carrying value may not be General recoverable based on the above indicators, the profitability of the Taxes include current taxes on profits, deferred taxes and other taxes CGU to which the asset belongs is analyzed to further confirm the such as taxes on capital, actual or potential withholding on current nature and extent of the indication. When an indication is confirmed, and expected transfers of income from Group companies and tax an impairment loss is recognized to the extent that the carrying adjustments relating to prior years. Income taxes are recognized in amount of the affected CGU exceeds its recoverable amount. the income statement, except to the extent that they relate to items directly taken to other comprehensive income or to equity, in which Intangible assets with indefinite useful lives case they are recognized in other comprehensive income or directly Goodwill and other intangible assets with indefinite useful lives, once in equity. allocated to a CGU, are tested annually for impairment and whenever Significant management judgment is required in determining there is an indication that the asset may be impaired. The impairment ­current tax liabilities and assets as well as deferred tax provisions and test is carried out at the lowest level of CGU or groups of CGUs at assets. The process involves estimating the current tax together with which these assets are monitored for internal management purposes. assessing temporary differences arising from differing treatment of In most cases this is the acquisition level but over time as full integraitems for tax and accounting purposes. In particular, management tion is reached, can become the product level or sub-segment level. assesses the likelihood that deferred tax assets will be recoverable An impairment loss is recognized if the carrying amount exceeds from future taxable income. the recoverable amount. Any impairment loss would first reduce the carrying value of goodwill, and then other intangible assets and propCurrent taxes erty, plant and equipment based on their relative carrying values. All the companies within the Group compute current income taxes in accordance with the tax rules and regulations of the countries where Calculation of recoverable amount the income is taxable. Provisions have been made in the financial The recoverable amount is the greater of the estimated fair value less statements for estimated taxes on earnings of subsidiaries expected costs to sell and value in use. to be remitted in the following year, but not for taxes, which may arise In assessing value in use, a discounted cash flow model (DCF) is on distribution of the remaining unrestricted earnings of foreign used. This assessment contains a key source of estimation uncer­subsidiaries as they can be distributed free of tax or as the Group does tainty because the estimates and assumptions used in the DCF model not intend to internally distribute them in the foreseeable future. encompass uncertainty about future events and market conditions. The actual outcomes may be significantly different. However, estiDeferred taxes mates and assumptions have been reviewed by management and are The Group applies the required balance sheet approach for measuring consistent with internal forecasts and business outlook. deferred taxes, where deferred tax assets and provisions are recorded The DCF model involves the forecasting of future operating cash based on enacted tax rates for the expected future tax consequences flows and includes estimates of revenues, production costs and workof existing differences between accounting and tax reporting bases of ing capital requirements, as well as a number of assumptions, the assets and liabilities, as well as for tax loss and tax credit carry-forwards. most significant being the revenue growth rates and the discount rate. Such tax loss and tax credit carry-forwards can be used to ­offset These forecasts of future operating cash flows are built up from the future income. Deferred tax assets are recorded to the extent that it is following time frames: probable in management’s opinion that sufficient future taxable income • business and strategic plans for a three-year period representing will be ­available to allow the recognition of such benefits. management’s best estimates of future revenues and operating expenses using historical trends, general market conditions, indusOther taxes try trends and forecasts and other currently available information; Other taxes refer to taxes other than income taxes, which should not • extrapolated for another seven years using growth rates determined be included elsewhere in the income statement. on an individual CGU basis, reflecting a combination of product, industry and country growth factors; 96 Notes Group • after which a terminal value is calculated based on the Gordon Growth Warranty provisions involve estimates of the outcome of warranty model, which includes a terminal growth factor representing the claims resulting from defective products, which include estimates for real growth rate and inflation expected in the country in which the potential liability for damages caused by such defects to the Group’s assets operate. customers or to the customers of these customers and potential Forecasts of future operating cash flows are adjusted to present value ­liability for consequential damage. Assumptions are required for by an appropriate discount rate derived from the Group’s cost of capital, determining both the likelihood of favorable outcomes of warranty taking into account the country risk premium where applicable, and disputes and the cost incurred when replacing the defective products the systematic risk of the CGU at the date of evaluation. Management and compensating customers for damage caused by the Group’s determines the discount rate to be used based on the risk inherent in ­products. Warranty provisions are estimated with consideration of the related activity’s current business model and industry comparisons. historical claims statistics, expected costs to remedy and the average If the calculated recoverable amount is less then the carrying amount time lag between faults occurring and claims against the company. of the CGU an impairment is recognized. The impairment loss would then first reduces the carrying value of goodwill, and then other intanPost-employment benefits gible assets and property, plant and equipment based on their relative The post-employment provisions and assets arise from defined benecarrying values. fit obligations in plans which are either unfunded or funded. For the unfunded plans, benefits paid out under these plans come from the Provisions all-purpose assets of the company sponsoring the plan. The related In general, a provision is recognized when there is a present obligation provisions carried in the balance sheet represent the present value of as a result of a past event, it is probable that an outflow of resources the defined benefit obligation adjusted for unrecognized past service will be required to settle the obligation and a reliable estimate can be costs. made of the amount of the obligation. The amount recognized as proFor funded defined benefit plans, the assets of the plans are held in visions is the best estimate of the expenditure required to settle the trusts legally separate from the Group. The related balance sheet present obligation at the balance sheet date. As the estimates may provision or asset represents the deficit or excess of the fair value of involve uncertainty about future events outside the control of the plan assets over the present value of the defined benefit obligation, Group, the actual outcomes may be significantly different. taking into account any unrecognized past service cost. However, an When an obligation does not meet the criteria for recognition it may asset is recognized only to the extent that it represents a future ecobe considered a contingent liability and disclosed. Contingent liabilities nomic benefit which is actually available to the Group, for example in represent possible obligations whose existence will be confirmed only the form of reductions in future contributions or refunds from the by the occurrence or non-occurrence of one or more uncertain future plan. When such excess is not available it is not recognized, but is events not wholly within the control of the Group. They also include ­disclosed in the notes. existing obligations where it is not probable that an outflow of The projected unit credit method is used to determine the present resources is required, or the outflow cannot be reliably quantified. value of all defined benefit obligations and the related current service cost and where applicable, past service cost. Valuations are carried Restructuring provisions including termination benefits out quarterly for the most significant plans and annually for other Restructuring provisions for programmes that materially change the plans. External actuarial experts are used for these valuations. manner in which the business unit operates are recognized when a Estimating the obligations and costs involves the use of assumpdetailed formal plan has been established and a public announcement tions. Such assumptions vary according to the economic conditions of of the plan has occurred, creating a valid expectation that the plan will the country in which the plan is located and are adjusted to reflect be carried out. Restructuring provisions often include termination market conditions at valuation point. However, the actual costs benefits, which can be either voluntary or involuntary. Termination and obligations that in fact arise under the plans may be materially benefits are recognized in accordance with the above, except where ­different from the estimates based on the assumptions due to there is a service requirement in connection with the benefits, in ­changing market and economic conditions. which case the cost is allocated over the service period. The most sensitive assumptions are related to the discount rate, Restructuring provisions involve estimates of the timing and cost of expected return on assets, future compensation increases and health the planned future activities. The most significant estimates involve care cost rates. The selection of the discount rate is based on rates of the costs necessary to settle employee severance or other employee return on high-quality AA corporate bond indexes that have maturity separation obligations, as well as the costs involved in contract candates matching the duration of the obligations. In countries where cellations and other exit costs. Such estimates are based on historical there is no deep market for such bonds government bonds are used. experience and the expected future cash outflows, based on the The expected return on assets is based on the market expectations ­current status of negotiations with the affected parties and/or their (at the beginning of each period) for returns over the entire life of the representatives. related obligation. In developing the long term rate of return, management considers the historical returns and the future expected Provisions for claims return based on current market developments for each asset class as Provisions for claims include provisions for litigations and warranty. well as the target allocations of the portfolio. The salary growth Provisions for litigation are estimates of the future cash flows assumptions reflect the non-current actual experience, the near term ­necessary to settle the obligations. Such estimates are based on the outlook and assumed inflation. Health care cost trend rates are develnature of the litigation, the legal processes and potential level of damoped based on historical cost data, the near term ­outlook, and an ages in the jurisdiction in which the litigation has been brought, the assessment of likely non-current trends. progress of the cases, the opinions and view of internal and external Actuarial gains and losses arise from changes in actuarial assumplegal counsel and other advisers regarding the outcome of the case tions and experience adjustments, being differences between actuarand experience with similar cases. ial assumptions and what has actually occurred. They are recognized Notes Group 97 1 Accounting policies (cont.) immediately in other comprehensive income and are never reclassiRestatement due to finalisation of Lincoln acquisition fied to the income statement. For all defined benefit plans the cost charged to the income stateIn 2011 the purchase price allocation for Lincoln, which was acquired ment consists of current service cost, interest cost, expected return December 2010, was completed, see Note 3. Restatements have on plan assets (only funded plans), past service cost, curtailments and been made to the Consolidated balance sheet as well as to Industrial settlements. The past service cost for changes in benefits is recognized Division’s assets and liabilities, net as shown in the table below. when such benefits vest, or amortized over the periods until vesting Related notes have also been restated. occurs. Final valuations resulted in reclassifications between intangibles, Interest cost and the expected return on assets to the extent that deferred taxes and goodwill for SEK 379 m. Additionally deferred tax it covers that plan’s interest cost, is classified as financial expense. assets and ­provisions for deferred taxes were netted of SEK 544 m. Other expense items as well as any remaining expected return on As previously assets and all defined contribution expenses are allocated to the 2010 (SEKm) reported As restated ­operations based on the employee’s function as manufacturing, SKF Group ­selling or administrative. Goodwill 6,309 5,931 The defined benefit accounting described above is applied only Other intangible assets 4,164 4,263 in the consolidated accounts. Subsidiaries, as well as the Parent Deferred tax assets 1,695 1,151 ­company, continue to use the local statutory pension calculations to Provisions for deferred taxes 2,132 1,309 determine pension costs, provisions and assets in the stand-alone statutory reporting. Some post-employment benefits are also provided by defined Industrial Division ­contribution schemes, where the Group has no obligation to pay Assets and liabilities, net 23,496 23,217 ­benefits after payment of an agreed-upon contribution to the third party responsible for the plan. Such contributions are recognized as expense when incurred. New accounting principles A portion of the ITP pensions arrangements in Sweden is financed New accounting principles 2011 through insurance premiums to Alecta. This arrangement is con­ IASB issued several new or amended accounting standards effective sidered to be a multi-employer plan where defined benefit accounting starting 1 January 2011. None of these had a material impact on the is required. Alecta is currently unable to provide the information SKF Group’s financial statements. needed to do such accounting. As a result, such insurance premiums paid are currently accounted for as a defined contribution expense. Issued but not yet effective The following have been issued from the IASB and are effective as from 1 January 2012, and are not expected to have any material Critical accounting estimates and judgements effect on the Group’s financial statements when applied. The preparation of financial statements requires management to • IFRS 7 amendment “Disclosures for Transfer Transactions of make estimates and judgements that affect reported assets, liabilities, Financial Assets” requires disclosures of transfer transactions ­revenues and expenses. These estimates can be based on historical including the possible effects of any remaining risks, as well as the experiences, other internal/external sources, and/or assumptions existence of disproportionate transactions occurring near the end that management believes are reasonable under the circumstances. of a reporting period. These estimates also form the basis for making judgements about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent The following have been issued from the IASB and are effective for from other sources. Actual outcomes may differ from management’s annual periods after 2012 as noted. The effect upon the Group’s estimates which could have a significant impact on the Group’s financial ­financial statements has not yet been determined. statements. * IFRS 10 “Consolidated Financial Statements” reaffirms the conManagement believes that the following are the most key judgements, cept of control as the determining factor in whether an entity should assumptions and other estimation uncertainties used in the preparation be included within the consolidated financial statements (2013). of the financial statements, where a different opinion or estimate could * IFRS 12 “Disclosures of Interest in Other Entities” standardizes lead to significant changes to the reported results. The key judgements disclosure requirements for all forms of interests in other entities, and estimates used in these areas are described fully in their individual including joint arrangements, associates, special purpose vehicles and accounting policy descriptions within Note 1: other off balance sheet vehicles (2013). • Judgements on the realizability of deferred tax assets, see Note 9. * IFRS 13 “Fair value measurement” provides a precise definition of • The estimates and key assumptions used in the calculation of value fair value and a single source of fair value measurement and disclosure in use for impairment testing of goodwill and other intangibles with requirements (2013). indefinite lives, see Note 10. * IAS 19 “Employee Benefits” amendment requires the immediate • The estimates used in the determination of net realizable value of recognition of actuarial gains and losses. Additionally, it aligns the inventory, see Note 13 expected return on plan assets to the discount rate and adds more • Discount rate on post-employment benefits, see Note 18. disclosures for defined benefit plans. The Group already recognises 98 Notes Group actuarial gains and losses immediately in other comprehensive approach to determine whether a financial asset is measured at cost income as now required by the amendment, but is currently investior fair value. For financial liabilities, classification and measurement gating the effect of the other changes (2013). have been moved from IAS 39 to IFRS 9. The main difference is “Fair * Amendments to IAS 1 “Presentation of Financial Statements” Value for Financial Liabilities” which requires that if an entity chooses require companies to present together items within other compreto measure a liability at fair value the portion of the change in its fair hensive income that may be reclassified to the income statement value due to changes in the entity’s own credit risk will be presented in (2013). other comprehensive income rather than within the income statement * IFRS 9 “Financial instruments Classification and Measurement”, (2015). simplifies accounting for financial assets by requiring a single * Indicates that these have not yet been endorsed by the EU. 2 Segment information SKF has more than 130 manufacturing sites in 32 countries and is The Automotive Division serves manufacturers of cars, light trucks, represented in over 130 countries through its own sales companies heavy trucks, trailers, buses, two-wheelers and the vehicle service and over 15,000 distributor locations. The Group does business market, supporting them in bringing innovative and sustainable solumainly through three divisions: Industrial Division, Service Division tions to global markets. In addition, the division provides energysaving and Automotive Division. The divisions are each focusing on specific solutions for home appliances, power tools and electric motors. Within customer segments representing groups of related industrial and the Automotive Division, SKF develops and manufactures bearings, automotive products worldwide, see Note 1. seals and related products and services. Products include wheel hub With manufacturing and operational sites and sales offices across bearing units, tapered roller bearings, small deep groove ball bearings, the globe, the Industrial Division works closely with OEM customers to seals, and mechanical and electrical products for engine, steering and develop new solutions based on the five technology platforms – beardriveline applications. For the vehicle service market, the division ings and units, seals, mechatronics, services and lubrication systems ­provides complete repair kits, including a range of drive shafts and – to bring increasing value to customers. Many of the solutions constant velocity joints. strongly focus on helping customers increase their energy efficiency, Other operations include businesses managed outside of the three as industries play an essential role in global greenhouse gas emission divisions, primarily PEER, SKF Logistics Services and other minor reductions and resource-use efficiency. operations, as well as divested businesses. PEER mainly manufactures The Service Division serves the global industrial aftermarket prodeep groove ball bearings, agricultural bearings, mounted units and viding products and knowledge-based services to increase customers’ tapered roller bearings to customers mainly located in North America. plant asset efficiency. Solutions are based on SKF’s knowledge of SKF Logistic Services provides warehousing, transportation, packaging bearings, seals, lubrication systems, mechatronics and services, and and inventory management based on seamless information and customers are served by SKF and its network of over 7,000 author­communication technology for the SKF Group worldwide. ized distributors. The division has five condition monitoring centres, Previously published amounts have been reclassified to conform to who design and produce world-leading hardware and software. the current Group structure in 2011. The Service Division is also responsible for all SKF’s sales in certain markets. Sales including Contribution to Net sales intra-Group sales Profit before tax SEKm 2011 2010 2011 2010 2011 2010 Industrial Division 23,924 20,050 34,458 29,836 4,421 3,558 Service Division 23,024 21,403 23,387 21,746 3,656 2,976 Automotive Division 17,771 18,231 21,453 21,995 1,362 1,855 Other operations 1,497 1,345 4,293 3,853 313 341 Subtotal operating segments 66,216 61,029 83,591 77,430 9,752 8,730 Eliminations of intra Group sales – – -17,375 -16,401 – – Timing differences related to intra-Group sales and other timing differences – – – – -342 -32 Eliminations and unallocated items, net – – – – 202 -246 Financial net – – – – -680 -903 66,216 61,029 66,216 61,029 8,932 7,549 Notes Group 99 2 Segment information (cont.) Additions to property, Depreciation and plant and equipment and amortization Impairments ­intangible assets SEKm 2011 2010 2011 2010 2011 2010 Industrial Division 1,005 908 39 121 920 1,028 Service Division 95 117 2 30 87 105 Automotive Division 577 693 -1 47 781 593 Other operations 54 52 4 – 79 57 Eliminations and unallocated items 15 24 – – 61 -86 1,746 1,794 44 198 1,928 1,697 Assets Liabilities SEKm 2011 2010 2011 2010 Industrial Division 28,354 27,8161) 4,749 4,599 Service Division 7,469 6,874 1,837 1,857 Automotive Division 11,734 11,622 3,221 3,586 Other operations 1,764 1,559 648 592 Subtotal operating segments 49,321 47,871 10,455 10,634 Financial and tax items 8,363 5,8151) 24,000 21,419 1) Other unallocated items 1,690 715 2,464 2,454 59,374 54,401 36,919 34,507 Net sales by Geographic disclosure customer location Non-current assets SEKm 2011 2010 2011 2010 Sweden 2,152 1,900 1,431 1,402 Europe excl. Sweden 28,183 26,109 10,024 10,429 1) North America 12,738 10,783 6,628 6,7041) Asia-Pacific 17,241 16,412 4,519 4,052 1) Other 5,902 5,825 796 782 Eliminations – – -107 -145 66,216 61,029 23,291 23,224 1) Restated for finalised Lincoln PPA, see Note 1. Net sales are allocated according to the location of the respective Non-current assets exclude financial assets, deferred tax assets and ­customer. Of the Group’s total net sales by customer location, 16.9% post-employment benefit assets.­Non-current assets are allocated (15.7) were located in the USA, 13.6% (12.8) in Germany, and 11.7% according to the location of the subsidiaries. Of the Group’s total non(12.9) in China. current assets as defined above, 28.2% (28.6) were located in the USA, 18.2% (18.8) in Germany, 11.2% (8.5) in China, 8.7% (9.0) in France and 6.6% (7.3) in Italy. 3 Acquisitions Restated SEKm 2011 2010 Total fair value of net assets acquired Non-current assets, excluding goodwill 60 3,600 Current assets 106 1,389 Non-current liabilities – -1,109 Current liabilities -67 -344 Remaining non-controlling interests – 35 Fair value net assets acquired 99 3,571 Book value of previously owned equity interest -69 – Loss on remeasurement of previously owned equity interest 19 – Excess of net assets over acquisition cost -19 – Goodwill 40 3,511 Total acquisition cost 70 7,082 Less: Cash and cash equivalents acquired -24 -283 Consideration payable on acquisition prior to IFRS 3 revised -40 – Cash outflow 6 6,799 100 Notes Group In 2011, the Group had total cash outflows of SEK 6 m for acquisitions Their results have been included in the Group’s income statement as of businesses. Additionally an earnout payable was adjusted against from 1 January 2011. goodwill for SEK 40 m related to an acquisition made prior to 2009. The allocation of the acquisition cost to the identifiable assets In April, the Group acquired the remaining 50% of the International acquired and liabilities assumed (net assets) was finalized in 2011 Component Supply (ICS) for SEK 6 m, net of cash acquired. The as shown below. The Groups consolidated balance sheet and related Group´s initial 50% investments in ICS was made in 2001. ICS is notes for 2010 were restated for these final PPA adjustments, see located in Brazil and manufactures forged and turned steel rings for Note 1 for this restatement. bearings and is part of the Automotive Division. The table above Originally shows the fair value of net assets acquired in ICS. At the time of acquip ­ ublished Final PPA SEKm in 2010 ­adjustments Final PPA sition, the Group’s initial equity interest of 50% was remeasured to fair value resulting in a loss of SEK 19 m which is included in other operatFair value of net assets acquired ing expenses. Additionally, since the fair value of the net assets Trademarks 1,020 -13 1,007 acquired exceeded the acquisition costs, the difference of SEK 19 m Customer relationships 1,836 -47 1,789 was recorded in other operating income. Other intangibles 287 159 446 In 2010, the Group had total cash outflows of SEK 6,799 m for Plant, property and equipment 358 – 358 the acquisition of Lincoln and the minority interest in Berger Vogel, Trade receivables 441 – 441 both relating to the Industrial Division. The remaining 49% interest in Inventory 648 – 648 Berger Vogel, Italy was acquired in August 2010 for SEK 35 m, which Other assets 300 – 300 was charged directly to equity. The Group’s original investment was Deferred tax provisions, net -1,225 279 -946 made in 2004. The acquisition of Lincoln in 2010 is described below. Post-employment benefits -163 – -163 Other liabilities -344 – -344 Acquisition of Lincoln 3,158 378 3,536 On 28 December 2010 the Group acquired 100% of the shares of Goodwill 3,889 -378 3,511 ­L incoln Holdings Enterprises, Inc (Lincoln) from Harbour Group. Total acquisition cost 7,047 0 7,047 ­L incoln is a leader in the design, manufacture and supply of highly engineered lubrication systems, tools and equipment, and is headLess: quartered in St. Louis, Missouri, USA. Cash and cash equivalents acquired -283 – -283 Lincoln’s three main product lines are automated ­lubrication Cash outflow 6,764 – 6,764 ­systems, hose reels, and grease guns, with focus on grease-based systems. Sales are mainly generated from automated lubrication The acquisition was paid using existing cash and credit facilities. ­systems and related products. Major end markets include industrial, Acquisition related costs of SEK 100 m were expensed, of which SEK energy, off-highway, mining, agriculture, and steel. The company has 80 m was included as Other operating expense and SEK 20 m was a global footprint with around 50% ot its sales generated in North included as Selling expense in the Group’s income statement. The acquiAmerica, 25% in Europe and 20% in Asia Pacific. The company has sition of Lincoln included all Lincoln, Alemite and Reelcraft entities around 2,000 employees with manufacturing operations in the and brands. Consequently the opening balances include a valuation USA, Asia and Europe. of trademarks of SEK 1,007 m, which the Group considers to have an Lincoln is part of lubrication systems within SKF’s ­Industrial Diviindefinite life, as it is intended to continue to promote these brands sion. The acquisition of Lincoln is in line with SKF’s strategy and builds in the foreseeable future. Values were allocated to other significant on a series of acquisitions made in the ­lubrication systems sector over intangibles which included customer relationships to be amortized the last six years. Lincoln is highly complementary to SKF’s existing over an expected life of 15 years. lubrication systems business, with limited product and geographical None of the goodwill is deductible for tax purposes. The goodwill overlap. The acquisition furthers SKF’s strategy including: arises due to Lincoln’s expected ability to continuously renew its improving the lubrication systems platform through Lincoln’s ­technology resulting in improved sales opportunities as well as their ­complementary product portfolio ability to deliver strong financial performance on a consistent basis. increasing the geographical sales coverage in North America and Asia. expanding the business to the automotive aftermarket in the USA expanding the manufacturing operations through Lincoln’s strong US and Asian manufacturing footprint. Lincoln is included in the Group’s balance sheet at 31 December 2010, with no impact on the Group’s income statement for the year 2010. Notes Group 101 4 Divestments of businesses and assets held for sale Divestments of businesses Assets held for sale SEKm 2011 2010 2011 2010 Assets Property, plant and equipment 266 – – 184 Inventory 157 – – 143 Trade receivables and other assets 154 – – 61 577 – – 388 Liabilities Provisions for post-employment benefits 87 – – 89 Trade payables 159 – – 145 Other provisions and liabilities 93 – – 72 339 – – 306 Net assets disposed of 238 – Profit -14 – Total consideration 224 – Less: Cash and cash equivalents divested -73 – Consideration receivable, net -26 – Total cash inflow 125 – During 2011, SKF sold its Automotive Division’s forgings business in factory in Gothenburg to the Japanese component manufacturer OMVP, in Villar Perosa, Italy to the German based company Neumayer Nakanishi Metal Works CO., Ltd Tekfor Holding GmbH. SKF also sold the Industrial Division’s cage Assets held for sale for 2010 included the Automotive Division’s forging businesses in Villar Perosa, Italy and Tudela, Spain. 5 Research and development Research and development expenditures totaled SEK 1,481 m (1,184). the Group produces prototypes of various products on behalf of a third Additionally, the Group entered into external research ­contracts where party. Expenses under such contracts were SEK 28 m (3). 6 Expenses by nature SEKm 2011 2010 Employee benefit expenses including social charges 18,716 18,155 Raw material and components consumed, including shop supplies 22,374 19,373 Change in work in process and finished goods -1,271 -1,259 Depreciation, amortization, and impairments 1,790 1,992 Other expenses, primarily purchased services, utilities and goods 15,015 14,177 Total operating expenses 56,624 52,438 Depreciation, amortization and impairments 2011 were accounted for as (SEKm) Depreciation Amortization Impairments Total Cost of goods sold 1,431 66 44 1,541 Selling expenses 66 182 – 248 Administrative expenses 1 – – 1 1,498 248 44 1,790 Depreciation, amortization and 2010 impairments were accounted for as (SEKm) Depreciation Amortization Impairments Total Cost of goods sold 1,562 59 72 1,693 Selling expenses 81 88 126 295 Administrative expenses 1 3 – 4 1,644 150 198 1,992 102 Notes Group 7 Other operating income and expenses SEKm 2011 2010 Other operating income Exchange gain on trade receivables/payables 666 423 Profit from sale of property, plant and equipment 65 31 Profit from sale of businesses 10 – Other 119 73 860 527 Other operating expenses Exchange loss on trade receivables/payables -737 -512 Loss from sale of property, plant and equipment -4 -14 Loss from sale of businesses -34 – Acquisitionrelated expenses (Lincoln) – -80 Other -49 -60 -824 -666 8 Financial income and financial expenses Financial net specified by nature (SEKm) 2011 2010 Interest income 219 218 Interest expense -545 -368 Net gains/losses: Interest on post-employment benefits, net -247 -267 Exchange differences 9 -178 Dividend income 3 4 Other financial income & expense -119 -312 Financial net -680 -903 Reflected as: Financial income 368 391 Financial expenses -1,048 -1,294 Financial net -680 -903 Other financial income and expense includes impairment of financial relates mainly to the impairment of SEK 225 m on the Ovako vendor receivables of SEK 34 m. In 2010 other financial income and expense note. 2011 2010 Interest Interest Net gains/­ Interest Interest Net gains/­ Financial net specified by category of financial instruments (SEKm) ­income ­e xpense losses ­income ­e xpense losses Financial assets/liabilities at fair value through profit or loss Designated upon initial recognition 20 – – 11 – 12 Derivatives held for trading 13 -17 -261 27 -15 -907 Derivatives held for hedge accounting 164 -122 -22 100 -81 -358 Financial assets classified as loans and receivables 22 – 444 80 – 419 Financial assets classified as available-for-sale – – 3 – – 4 Other financial liabilities, primarily loans – -406 -185 – -272 431 Other non-financial liabilities – – -333 – – -354 219 -545 -354 218 -368 -753 See Note 1 for a description of the categories of financial instruments. Net gains/losses are mainly exchange differences and changes in For a specification of the underlying financial assets and financial fair value for all the categories except for other non-financial liabilities, ­liabilities to these categories see Note 14 and Note 20 respectively. which includes primarily net interest costs on post-employment Derivatives classified as held for trading are mainly used for economic ­benefits and the interest caused by the discounting of provisions. hedging, which ­mitigate the effect of certain items in the categories For 2011 net gain/losses for loans and receivables includes an loans and ­receivables and other financial liabilities. impairment of SEK 34 m (225). Notes Group 103 9 Taxes 2011 2010 Other Other Income­ ­comprehensive Income­ ­comprehensive Tax expense (SEKm) statement income Total taxes statement ­income Total taxes Current taxes -2,724 – -2,724 -1,904 -163 -2,067 Deferred taxes 66 472 538 -298 219 -79 Other taxes -50 – -50 -51 – -51 -2,708 472 -2,236 -2,253 56 -2,197 Taxes charged to other comprehensive income includes SEK 447 m cash flow hedges and SEK -27 m (-169) related to net investment (229) related to actuarial gains and losses, SEK 52 m (-4) related to hedges. 2011 2010 Deferred Deferred Deferred Deferred Gross deferred taxes per type (SEKm) tax assets tax provisions tax assets tax provisions Intangibles and other assets -70 1,140 -83 1,123 1) Property, plant and equipment -66 1,148 -63 1,151 Inventories -447 469 -392 502 Trade receivables -44 45 -37 49 Provisions for post-employment benefits -2,008 21 -1,523 16 Other accruals and liabilities -615 30 -753 30 Tax loss carry-forwards -333 – -257 – Other -69 438 -26 421 Gross deferred taxes -3,652 3,291 -3,134 3,292 Net deferred taxes presented in the Consolidated balance sheet -1,299 938 -1,151 1,309 1) Restated for finalised Lincoln PPA, se Note 1. Unrecognized deferred tax assets SKF Group had total unrecognized deferred tax assets of SEK 239 m The change in the balance of unrecognized deferred tax assets that (249), whereof SEK 49 m (113) related to tax loss carry-forwards, reduced current tax expense was SEK 20 m (11) relating to the use of SEK 155 m (73) related to tax credits and SEK 35 m (62) related to tax loss carry-forwards. The change in the balance of unrecognized other deductible temporary differences. These were not recognized deferred tax assets that impacted deferred tax expense was SEK 61 m due to the uncertainty of future profit streams. Unrecognized (4) which resulted from a revised judgement on the realizability of deferred tax assets of SEK 16 m are related to tax losses which will certain tax assets in future years. expire during the period 2012 to 2016. The remaining unrecognized assets will expire after 2017 and/or may be carried forward indefinitely. Reconciliation of the statutory tax in Sweden to the actual tax (SEKm) 2011 2010 Tax calculated using statutory tax rate in Sweden -2,349 -1,985 Difference between statutory tax rate in Sweden and foreign subsidiaries -265 -212 Other taxes -50 -51 Tax credits and similar items 87 97 Non-deductible/non-taxable differences -126 -74 Tax loss carry-forwards 62 -62 Current tax referring to previous years -40 -14 Other -27 48 Actual tax -2,708 -2,253 The corporate statutory income tax rate in Sweden was 26.3% (26.3). The actual tax rate on profit before taxes was 30.3% (29.8). There were no material changes in tax rates impacting deferred taxes in 2011 or 2010. Gross value of tax loss carry-forwards 2012 61 At 31 December 2011, certain subsidiaries had tax loss carry-forwards amounting to SEK 1,571 m 2013 156 (1,632), which are available for offset against taxable future profits. Such tax loss carry-forwards 2014 191 expire as follows: 2015 111 2016 93 2017 and thereafter 959 104 Notes Group 10 Intangible assets 2011­ 2011 Closing Businesses ImpairTranslation Opening SEKm ­b alance Additions ­acquired/sold Disposals ments Other ­effects ­b alance Acquisition cost Goodwill 6,369 – -38 – – – 59 6,348 1) Patents, tradenames and similar rights 1,534 5 – -6 – – 8 1,5271) Software 462 4 – -2 – – 4 456 Customer relationships 2,562 – – -21 – – -21 2,6041) Leaseholds 80 47 – – – -4 7 30 Capitalized development 276 27 – -12 – – -1 262 Other intangible assets 656 6 – -24 – – 63 611 1) 11,939 89 -38 -65 – -4 119 11,838 SEKm 2011­ 2011 Accumulated amortization Closing Businesses ImpairTranslation Opening and impairments ­b alance Depreciation ­acquired/sold Disposals ments Other ­effects ­b alance Goodwill 377 – -78 – 40 – -2 417 Patents, tradenames and similar rights 236 18 – -5 – -1 -1 225 Software 454 7 – – – – – 447 Customer relationships 488 170 – -20 – 1 5 332 Leaseholds 8 3 – – – -12 – 17 Capitalized development 95 10 – -11 – – – 96 Other intangible assets 124 40 – -28 – – 2 110 1,782 248 -78 -64 40 -12 4 1,644 Net book value 10,157 -159 40 -1 -40 8 115 10,194 2010­ 2010 Closing Businesses ImpairTranslation Opening SEKm ­ alance b Additions ­acquired 1) Disposals ments Other ­effects ­b alance Acquisition cost Goodwill 6,348 – 3,511 – – – -215 3,052 Patents, tradenames and similar rights 1,527 – 1,025 – – – -56 558 Software 456 3 – -37 – 2 -9 497 Customer relationships 2,604 – 1,789 -2 – – -88 905 Leaseholds 30 – – – – 3 -1 28 Capitalized development 262 30 – – – – -37 269 Other intangible assets 611 13 428 – – -4 2 172 11,838 46 6,753 -39 – 1 -404 5,481 2010­ 2010 Closing Businesses ImpairTranslation Opening SEKm ­b alance Depreciation ­acquired Disposals ments Other ­effects ­b alance Accumulated amortization and impairments Goodwill 417 – – – 131 – -7 293 Patents, tradenames and similar rights 225 33 – – – – -22 214 Software 447 15 – -36 – – -10 478 Customer relationships 332 66 – -2 19 – -20 269 Leaseholds 17 4 – – – – -1 14 Capitalized development 96 16 – – – – -10 90 Other intangible assets 110 16 – – – – -15 109 1,644 150 – -38 150 – -85 1,467 Net book value 10,194 -104 6,753 -1 -150 1 -319 4,014 1) Restated for finalised Lincoln PPA, se Note 1. Notes Group 105 10 Intangible assets (cont.) In 2011, additions to capitalized software and development included Impairment losses in 2010 totalled SEK 150 m. The most significant SEK 27 m (28) that was internally generated. was SEK 75 m related to the impairment of goodwill in certain of Impairment losses related to intangible assets for 2011 totalled Industrial Division’s mechatronics operations which experienced SEK 40 m and were related to the impairment of goodwill in the ­sign­ificantly decreased volumes and revenues. The remaining Industrial Division´s Linear Motion operations, which experienced ­impairments in 2010 were individually insignificant and related decreasing volumes and margins. The impairment was based on a ­primarily to goodwill in the Service Division´s operations in Europe value in use model using a discount rate of 10% (10). and the Industrial Division’s spindles business in North America which experienced shrinking order-books and increased risks on some certain contracts. Cash generating units (CGUs) containing significant goodwill and other intangible assets with indefinite useful lives Tradename Goodwill SEKm 2011 2010 2011 2010 Lincoln (acquired 2010) 1,025 1,007 1) 3,559 3,511 1) PEER Group (acquired 2008) 173 169 241 237 S2M Group (acquired 2007) – – 267 269 ABBA Group (acquired 2007) – – 296 251 SNFA Group (acquired 2006) – – 350 352 SKF Sealing Solutions NA (acquired 1990) – – 368 252 Other CGUs – – 911 1,059 Total 1,198 1,176 5,992 5,931 1) Restated for finalised Lincoln PPA, se Note 1 The goodwill and tradenames included in the above specific CGUs are and the growth rates, being both the terminal growth factor and the individual intangible assets with indefinite lives that are material to revenue growth rates. The average revenue growth rate used for the the SKF Group, whereas the “Other CGUs” are considered individually first two time frames covering a ten-year period was 3% for Lincoln, insignificant. The recoverable amount for the “Other CGUs” are 14% (14) for PEER, 16% (17) for S2M, 7% (9) for ABBA, 7% (8) for SNFA ­c alculated using the same DCF model and assumptions as described and 2% (4) for SKF Sealing Solutions. The terminal growth factors in Note 1. The values assigned to the key assumptions and other used to calculate the terminal value were 3% (3) for ABBA and 2,5% para­meters of the calculation are determined on an individual CGU (2,5) for the remaining CGU’s. The pre-tax discount rate was 12% for basis. Lincoln, 13% (13) for PEER, 12% (11) for S2M, 9% (9) for ABBA, 12% The tradenames within Lincoln and PEER are considered to have (11) for SNFA and 13% (13) for SKF ­Sealing Solutions. indefinite useful lives as the SKF Group anticipates continuing to ­promote these brands in the foreseeable future. Sensitivity analyses A number of sensitivity analyses were performed to evaluate if any Lincoln, PEER Group, S2M Group, ABBA Group, reasonably possible adverse changes in assumptions would lead to SNFA Group and SKF Sealing Solutions NA impairment. The analyses focused around decreasing the revenue The recoverable amounts for these CGUs have been determined based growth rates and increasing the discount rates by 1 percentage point. on the value in use model. As discussed in Note 1, the most significant No impairments were indicated. assumptions used in determining value in use are the discount rates 106 Notes Group 11 Property, plant and equipment 2011­ 2011 Closing Businesses ImpairTranslation Opening SEKm ­b alance Additions ­acquired/sold Disposals ments Other ­effects ­b alance Acquisition cost Buildings 6,120 156 -18 -83 – 83 84 5,898 Land and land improvements 804 2 -3 -5 – -1 -122 933 Machinery and supply systems 22,300 419 -113 -814 – 419 -179 22,568 Machine toolings and factory fittings 3,120 164 62 -255 – 95 7 3,047 Construction in process including advances 1,981 1,098 – -5 – -736 14 1,610 34,325 1,839 -72 -1,162 – -140 -196 34,056 2011­ 2011 Closing Businesses ImpairTranslation Opening SEKm ­b alance Depreciation ­acquired/sold Disposals ments Other ­effects ­b alance Accumulated depreciation and impairments Buildings 2,973 191 -8 -79 – -34 -14 2,917 Land improvements 177 4 – -2 – 2 -1 174 Machinery and supply systems 15,702 1,047 -37 -808 4 -11 -124 15,631 Machine toolings and factory fittings 2,397 256 – -235 – -58 22 2,412 21,249 1,498 -45 -1,124 4 -101 -117 21,134 Net book value 13,076 341 -27 -38 -4 -39 -79 12,922 2010­ 2010 Closing Businesses ImpairTranslation Opening SEKm ­b alance Additions ­acquired Disposals ments Other 1) ­effects ­b alance Acquisition cost Buildings 5,898 153 66 -57 – 104 -572 6,204 Land and land improvements 933 1 146 -14 – 16 -76 860 Machinery and supply systems 22,568 552 124 -1,017 – 40 -2,369 25,238 Machine toolings and factory fittings 3,047 136 15 -182 – -55 -294 3,427 Construction in process including advances 1,610 809 7 -3 – -976 -111 1,884 34,056 1,651 358 -1,273 – -871 -3,422 37,613 2010­ 2010 Closing Businesses ImpairTranslation Opening SEKm ­b alance Depreciation ­acquired Disposals ments Other 1) ­effects ­b alance Accumulated depreciation and impairments Buildings 2,917 182 – -49 – -22 -326 3,132 Land improvements 174 11 – -11 – – -24 198 Machinery and supply systems 15,631 1,194 – -996 46 -530 -1,730 17,647 Machine toolings and factory fittings 2,412 257 – -168 2 -135 -247 2,703 21,134 1,644 – -1,224 48 -687 -2,327 23,680 Net book value 12,922 7 358 -49 -48 -184 -1,095 13,933 1) Property, plant and equipment classified as held for sale is reflected under “Other”, see Note 4. Impairment losses for 2010 on property, plant and equipment amounted to SEK 48 m and were primarily related to the Automotive Division’s forging business in Villar Perosa, Italy, which was classified as held for sale in 2010. See Note 4. Notes Group 107 11 Property, plant and equipment (cont.) Leased property, plant and equipment consisted of the following (SEKm) 2011 2010 Acquisition value Buildings 86 86 Land and land improvements 14 14 Machinery, machine toolings, factory fittings and supply systems 2 4 102 104 Accumulated depreciation Buildings 15 12 Machine toolings and factory fittings 1 2 16 14 Net book value 86 90 12 Jointly controlled and associated companies Investments in jointly controlled and associated companies (SEKm) 2011 2010 Investments in jointly controlled companies – 60 Investments in associated companies 11 27 11 87 Income from jointly controlled and associated companies (before taxes) (SEKm) 2011 2010 Jointly controlled companies -1 3 Associated companies -15 -3 -16 0 In 2011, SKF purchased the remaining 50% of the jointly controlled company International Component Supply Ltd in Brazil, refer to Note 3. Investments in associated companies include primarily CoLinx in the USA, AEC Japan Co. Ltd and Endorsia.com International AB. Aggregated financial statements of jointly controlled and associated companies (SEKm) 2011 2010 Non-current assets 68 180 Current assets 100 193 Total assets 168 373 Equity 84 231 Non-current liabilities 24 25 Current liabilities 60 117 Total equity and liabilities 168 373 Net sales 808 1,135 Profit before taxes 8 14 108 Notes Group 13 Inventories SEKm 2011 2010 Raw materials and supplies 3,892 3,794 Work in process 1,748 1,615 Finished goods 8,551 7,470 14,191 12,879 Inventory values are stated net of a provision for net realizable value r­ ealizable provisions during the year was SEK 151 m (181). Reversals of SEK 1,072 m (1,147). The amount charged to expense for net of net ­realizable provisions during the year were SEK 25 m (33). 14 Financial assets Past due, net of allowance Trade receivables by due date (SEKm) Carrying amount Not yet due 1-30 days 31-60 days 61-90 days > 91 days 2011 10,713 9,033 1,114 268 110 188 2010 9,859 8,665 846 197 65 86 The average days outstanding of trade receivables in 2011 were been transferred in such a way that the financial assets qualify for 60 days (58). The Group’s target is 57 days. Trade receivables as a derecognition. percentage of annual net sales totalled 16.2% (16.2). Trade receivables The table below shows the development of allowance accounts for included receivables sold with recourse amounting to SEK 120 m credit losses on trade receivables. (146). The risk of customer default for these receivables has not Specification of reserve for doubtful accounts (SEKm) 2011 2010 Allowances as of 1 January 263 266 Additions 65 56 Reversals -34 -47 Changes through the income statement 31 9 Allowances used to cover write-offs -17 -5 Currency translation adjustments -5 -7 Allowances as of 31 December 272 263 Notes Group 109 14 Financial assets (cont.) 2011 Financial assets per category Fair value through profit or loss Derivatives Loans and AvailableAt initial for hedge Of which SEKm receivables for-sale ­recognition Trading ­accounting Total current Loans and receivables 209 – – – – 209 35 Equity securities – 415 – – – 415 – Marketable securities – – – 392 – 392 – Debt securities – 18 73 – – 91 73 Trade receivables 10,713 – – – – 10,713 10,713 Deposits 283 – – – – 283 283 Cash and cash equivalent 2,183 – 2,642 – – 4,825 4,825 Derivatives (see Note 28) – – – 128 395 523 121 Carrying amount 13,388 433 2,715 520 395 17,451 16,050 Fair Value 13,385 433 2,715 520 395 2010 Financial assets per category Fair value through profit or loss Derivatives Loans and AvailableAt initial for hedge Of which SEKm receivables for-sale ­recognition Trading ­accounting Total current Loans and receivables 180 – – – – 180 32 Equity securities – 670 – – – 670 – Marketable securities – – – 341 – 341 – Debt securities – 18 135 – – 153 135 Trade receivables 9,859 – – – – 9,859 9,859 Deposits 320 – – – – 320 320 Cash and cash equivalent 1,847 – 548 – – 2,395 2,395 Derivatives (see Note 28) – – – 245 99 344 264 Carrying amount 12,206 688 683 586 99 14,262 13,005 Fair Value 12,203 688 683 586 99 14,259 Financial assets recorded at fair value, which includes the columns quoted price in an active market. Level 2 includes financial assets with Available-for-sale, Fair value through profit or loss, and Derivatives inputs based on observable data other than quoted prices in an active for hedge accounting in the above table, are disclosed below according market. Level 3 includes inputs that are not based on observable market to the hierarchy that shows the significance of the inputs used in the data. Amounts for equity securities include SEK 30 m (25) valued at fair value measurements. Level 1 includes financial assets with a cost and consequently not included in the specification below. Fair value hierarchy for financial assets at fair value (SEKm) Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 2011 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 2010 Fair value through profit or loss Trading securities 345 – 120 465 358 – 118 476 Cash and cash equivalents 2,642 – – 2,642 548 – – 548 Trading derivatives – 128 – 128 – 245 – 245 Available-for-sale Equity securities 385 – – 385 645 – – 645 Debt securities 18 – – 18 18 – – 18 Derivatives used for hedge accounting – 395 – 395 – 99 – 99 Total 3,390 523 120 4,033 1,569 344 118 2,031 Total comprehensive income Profit/loss Other ­ related to ­a ssets Reconciliation of financial Closing Financial ­comprehenTranslation Opening included in assets in Level 3 (SEKm) b ­ alance net sive income Withdrawals effect ­b alance closing b ­ alance Fair value through profit or loss Trading securities 2011 120 8 – -8 2 118 8 Trading securities 2010 118 5 – -9 -17 139 5 110 Notes Group 15 Other short-term assets SEKm 2011 2010 Advances to suppliers 189 145 Prepaid expenses 473 397 Accrued income 258 136 Other current receivables 1,861 1,512 2,781 2,190 16 Share capital Number of shares authorized and outstanding Share capital A Shares B Shares Total 1) (SEKm) Opening balance 1/1/2010 45,421,004 409,930,064 455,351,068 1,138 Conversion of A shares to B shares -505,400 505,400 – – Closing balance 31/12/2010 44,915,604 410,435,464 455,351,068 1,138 Conversion of A shares to B shares -1,966,122 1,966,122 – – Closing balance 31/12/2011 42,949,482 412,401,586 455,351,068 1,138 1) Quota value for all shares is SEK 2.50 An A share has one vote and a B share has one-tenth of one vote. Dividend payments At the Annual General Meeting on 18 April 2002, it was decided to The Board has decided to propose to the Annual General Meeting a insert a share conversion clause in the Articles of Association which dividend of SEK 5.50 (5.00) per share to be paid to the shareholders allows owners of A shares to convert those to B shares. Since the on 4 May 2012. The proposed dividend for 2012 is payable to all decision was taken, 183,987,265 A shares have been converted to shareholders on the Euroclear Sweden AB’s public share register as of B shares. 30 April 2012. The total proposed dividend to be paid is SEK 2,504 m (2,277). Dividend policy The dividend is subject to approval by shareholders at the Annual The SKF Group’s dividend and distribution policy is based on the General Meeting and has not been included as a liability in these principle that the total dividend should be adapted to the trend for financial statements. earnings and cash flow while taking account of the Group’s developOn 6 May 2011, a dividend of SEK 5.00 (3.50) per share was paid ment potential and financial position. The Board of Director’s view is to shareholders. that the ordinary dividend should amount to around one half of the SKF Group’s average net profit calculated over a business cycle. If the financial position of the SKF Group exceeds the target for ­c apital structure, which is described in Note 28, an additional ­d istribution to the ­ordinary dividend could be made in the form of a higher dividend, a redemption scheme or as a repurchase of the company’s own share. On the other hand, in periods of more uncertainty a lower dividend ratio could be appropriate. Notes Group 111 17 Earnings per share 2011 2010 Net profit attributable to owners of AB SKF (SEKm) 6,051 5,138 Weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding 455,351,068 455,351,068 Basic earnings per share (SEK) 13.29 11.28 Dilutive shares from Performance Share Programmes – – Weighted average diluted number of shares 455,351,068 455,351,068 Diluted earnings per share (SEK) 13.29 11.28 No allotment of performance shares will be made under SKF’s Weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding used in ­Performance Share Programme 2009 due to non-fulfilment of the the basic earnings per share calculation 2010 does not consider the TVA (Total Value Added) target. Consequently there is no effect on equity swap agreement entered into in relation to SKF’s Performance earnings per share from that programme. Share Programme 2008, see Note 1 under “Share-based compensaFuture allotment of performance shares covered by SKF’s Pertion”. If considered, the weighted average number of ordinary shares formance Share Programmes 2010 and 2011 requires that all the outstanding would have been reduced by 9,750 shares, which would conditions of the programmes are met. As of 31 of December 2011 have no material effect on basic earnings per share. The equity swap conditions have not been met and therefore the performance shares agreement would have no effect on weighted average diluted number are not currently considered dilutive, but may become dilutive in of shares, nor the diluted earnings per share calculation. future periods. Refer to Note 25 for more information regarding SKF’s performance share programmes. TVA is described on page 51 under “Financial ­performance management model”. 18 Provisions for post-employment benefits 2011 2010 Amount recognized in the consolidated balance sheet (SEKm) Pensions Other Total Pensions Other Total Present value of unfunded defined benefit obligations 968 1,663 2,631 966 1,762 2,728 Present value of funded defined benefit obligations 14,604 186 14,790 13,520 165 13,685 Less: Fair value of plan assets -8,747 -75 -8,822 -9,189 -79 -9,268 Deficit 6,825 1,774 8,599 5,297 1,848 7,145 Unrecognized past service cost – – – 0 -9 -9 Net post-employment benefit liabilities 6,825 1,774 8,599 5,297 1,839 7,136 Reflected as Other long-term assets -35 – -35 -46 – -46 Liabilities related to assets as held for sale – – – – 89 89 Provisions for post-employment benefits 6,860 1,774 8,634 5,343 1,750 7,093 Net post-employment benefit liabilities 6,825 1,774 8,599 5,297 1,839 7,136 Post-employment pension benefits Other post-employment benefits The Group sponsors defined benefit pension plans in a number of The majority of other post-employment benefits relate to post-retirecompanies, where the employees are eligible for retirement benefits ment health care plans and retirement and termination ­indemnities. based on pensionable remuneration and length of service. The most The US subsidiary sponsors a post-retirement health care plan significant plans are in Sweden, Germany, the UK and the USA. The covering most salaried and hourly employees. The plan ­provides Swedish plan supplements a statutory pension where benefits are health care and life insurance benefits for eligible retired employees. established by national organizations. Plans in Germany, the UK and The company is entitled to receive a subsidy under the US Medicare the USA are designed to supplement these countries’ social security Program Part D, for plan prescriptions drug costs for certain plan pensions. ­participants. At 31 December 2011, this reimbursement right totalled SEK 30 m (31). 112 Notes Group The subsidiaries in Italy sponsor termination indemnities, TFR, subsidiaries pay a contribution to an external social security fund as which are paid out immediately upon termination. As prescribed by defined by the employee. Italian law, the TFR obligation related to benefits and services up to The subsidiaries in France sponsor a retirement indemnity plan in 31 December 2006 remains a defined benefit plan and as such is accordance with French National Employer/Employee agreements reflected in the Group’s balance sheet. Benefits on employee’s service where a lump sum is paid to employees upon retirement. from 1 January 2007 are a defined contribution plan where the Italian Components of total post-employment benefit expense (SEKm) 2011 2010 Defined benefit expense Current service cost 370 371 Interest cost 765 787 Expected return on assets -523 -598 Curtailments -6 0 Other 10 8 Post-employment defined benefit expense 616 568 Post-employment defined contribution expense 342 329 Total post-employment benefit expense 958 897 Whereof Amounts charged to operating profit 711 630 Amounts charged to financial expense 247 267 Total post-employment benefit expense 958 897 Geographical distribution of total defined benefit obligations (SEKm) 2011 2010 Europe 9,797 9,530 Americas 7,398 6,660 Rest of the world 226 223 17,421 16,413 Geographical distribution of total plan assets (SEKm) Europe 4,649 4,888 Americas 4,068 4,249 Rest of the world 105 131 8,822 9,268 Specification of total plan assets (SEKm) Government bonds 2,360 2,067 Corporate bonds 2,362 2,090 Equity instruments 2,989 3,832 Real estate 824 850 Other, primarily cash and other financial receivables 287 429 8,822 9,268 The SKF Group strives to balance risk in the investments of plan The fair value of real estate in the specification of plan assets above assets, by aiming for a range of 30-50% equity instruments with the includes SEK 85 m (80) related to buildings in the USA and Switzerland remainder in lower risk/fixed income investments such as ­corporate where the Group is the lessee under operating lease arrangements. and government bonds. Lease expenses for the Group under these leases was SEK 9 m (10). Notes Group 113 18 Provisions for post-employment benefits (cont.) Changes in the present value of the defined 2011 2010 benefit obligation (SEKm) Pensions Other Total Pensions Other Total Opening balance 1 January 14,486 1,927 16,413 14,429 2,112 16,541 Interest cost 690 75 765 705 82 787 Current service cost 341 29 370 341 30 371 Settlements and curtailments -25 – -25 – – – Actuarial gains (-)/losses 680 -18 662 728 22 750 Contributions by plan participants 34 14 48 32 12 44 Benefits paid -774 -133 -907 -773 -161 -934 Business acquired/sold – -90 -90 1) 326 16 342 Other (including reclassifications) -8 34 26 29 12 41 Translation differences 148 11 159 -1,331 -198 -1,529 Closing balance 31 December 15,572 1,849 17,421 14,486 1,927 16,413 1) Relates to OMVP classified as held for sale in 2010, see Note 4. 2011 2010 Changes in the fair value of plan assets (SEKm) Pensions Other Total Pensions Other Total Opening balance 1 January 9,189 79 9,268 9,466 86 9,552 Expected return on assets 520 3 523 595 3 598 Settlements -17 – -17 – – – Actuarial gains/losses (-) -645 -9 -654 138 1 139 Contributions by employer 122 2 124 86 1 87 Contributions by plan participants 24 – 24 22 – 22 Benefits paid -520 – -520 -532 -1 -533 Business acquired/sold – – – 179 – 179 Other (including reclassifications) -16 – -16 -17 – -17 Translation differences 90 – 90 -748 -11 -759 Closing balance 31 December 8,747 75 8,822 9,189 79 9,268 Actual return on plan assets -131 737 Accumulated actuarial gains and losses and therefore premiums paid to Alecta are accounted for as defined The balance of accumulated actuarial gains and losses recorded in contribution expense. Fees for the year paid covering such arrangements retained earnings, including social charges, was an accumulated loss were immaterial for both 2011 and 2010. of SEK 4,023 m (2,687). Alecta’s profit in the form of the collective consolidation level amounted to 113 % (146). The collective consolidation level ­comprises Expected cash outflows the fair value of Alecta’s assets as a percentage of the insurance comCash outflows for 2012 are expected to be SEK 725 m, which include mitments calculated in accordance with Alecta’s ­insurance calculation contri­butions to funded plans as well as payments made directly by principles and assumptions which are not in conformity with IAS 19. the companies under unfunded plans and partially funded plans. Sensitivity analysis Multi-employer plans An increase of 1 percentage point in the discount rate would decrease SKF Group has commitments for retirement pensions and family the total defined benefit obligation by approximately SEK 1,600 m. ­pensions for office personnel in Sweden which are secured through A decrease by 1 percentage point in the discount rate would increase an insurance policy with Alecta. This is a defined benefit plan covering the total defined benefit obligation by approximately SEK 1,900 m. several employers, a so-called multi-employer plan. Alecta is currently unable to provide defined benefit accounting for such participants, 114 Notes Group Principal weighted-average assumptions at end of year 2011 2010 Discount rate Europe 4.6 4.8 Americas 4.5 5.3 Rest of the world 4.7 4.9 Expected return on plan assets Europe 4.7 5.0 Americas 7.0 7.4 Rest of the world 7.0 6.2 Rate of salary increase Europe 3.0 3.4 Americas 4.7 5.0 Rest of the world 5.7 7.3 Medical cost trend rate USA 8.50 8.75 A one percentage point increase in the assumed medical care cost trend rate Effect on the aggregate current service cost and interest cost 4 4 Effect on the defined benefit obligation 66 63 A one percentage point decrease in the assumed medical care cost trend rate Effect on the aggregate current service cost and interest cost -3 -4 Effect on the defined benefit obligation -58 -56 The assumed medical care cost trend rate at the end of 2011 was 8.50%, and is projected to decline by 0.25% per year, to an ultimate rate of 4.50% in 2027. Historical information (SEKm) 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 Total present value of defined benefit obligations 17,421 16,413 16,541 15,840 14,099 Fair value of plan assets -8,822 -9,268 -9,552 -9,515 -10,697 Deficit 8,599 7,145 6,989 6,325 3,402 Experience adjustments on plan liabilities, losses/gains(-) -93 131 -41 94 171 Experience adjustments on plan assets, losses (-)/gains 654 -139 358 -2,492 -11 Experience adjustments are a portion of the actuarial gains and losses that arise because of differences between the actuarial assumptions made at the beginning of the period and actual experience during the period. Notes Group 115 19 Other provisions 2011 Reversal 2011 Closing Provisions Utilized unutilized Translation Opening SEKm ­b alance for the year amounts amounts Other effect balance Restructuring 148 15 -243 -46 -9 – 431 Environmental 91 4 -7 – 6 1 87 Claims 649 96 -143 -65 16 2 743 Long-term employee benefits 474 111 -72 -4 49 -11 401 Other 474 57 -78 -9 4 – 500 1,836 283 -543 -124 66 -8 2,162 Restructuring activities include, among other things, plant closures Long-term employee benefits primarily include jubilee bonuses and and relocations, as well as significant changes in organizational part-time retirement programmes which are provided to employees ­structure which are expected to be resolved within 18 months. in certain countries and are expected to be settled before employment Environmental provisions and provisions for claims cover obligations ends. The increase in Long-term employee benefits for 2011 refers not settled at year-end. mainly to Jubilee provisions in Italy. Other provisions primarily include insurance and anti-dumping duties. 20 Financial liabilities 2011 2010 Carrying Carrying SEKm Maturity Amount Fair Value Amount Fair Value Long term financial liabilities EUR 500 m (Outstanding EUR 396 m) 2013 3,640 3,739 3,681 3,796 EUR 150 m (Outstanding EUR 50 m) 2013 – – 450 450 EUR 130 m 2014 1,163 1,169 1,170 1,176 EUR 400 m 2014 – – 3,601 3,602 EUR 100 m 2015 916 916 895 895 EUR 100 m 2016 895 895 900 900 SEK 1,000 m 2017 1,000 1,001 – – EUR 500 m 2018 4,762 4,762 – – Other long-term loans 2012-2016 119 121 152 153 Derivatives held for trading 5 5 1 1 Subtotal long term financial liabilities 12,500 12,608 10,850 10,973 Short term financial liabilities SEK 1,500 m (Outstanding SEK 556 m) 2011 – – 556 557 Medium-term loans > 3 months 16 15 26 25 Trade payables 2012 4,698 4,698 4,476 4,476 Short-term loans =< 3 months 341 341 366 366 Derivatives held for trading 729 729 137 137 Derivatives held for hedge accounting 27 27 240 240 Subtotal short term financial liabilities 5,811 5,810 5,801 5,801 18,311 18,418 16,651 16,774 Only derivatives are classified in the category “Fair value through been swapped into floating 3 months’ EUR interest rates. These profit or loss” and fall into Level 2 of the fair value hierarchy for both bonds, which are subject to fair value hedging, are further described 2011 and 2010, see Note 1 for a description of the fair value hierarchy. in Note 28. The remaining financial liabilities are classified in the category “Other EUR 130 m loan has been hedged with a cross-currency interest financial liabilities”. rate swap. The fixed EUR interest rates have been swapped into The EUR 100 m loan with maturity 2016 can be repaid at any time. floating 3 months’ SEK interest rates. For the rest of bonds and loans, the maturities stated in the table The two EUR 100 m loans, EUR 230 m out of the EUR 396 m bond above are based on the earliest date on which they can be required to loan and the EUR 500 m bond have been designated as hedge instrube repaid. ments in net investment hedges of foreign operations, see Note 28. EUR 166 m out of the outstanding EUR 396 m bond have been The fair value of these EUR loans and bond amounted to SEK 8,715 m. hedged with cross-currency interest rate swaps. The fixed EUR interDerivatives are further described in Note 28. Methods used for est rates have been swapped into floating 3 months’ SEK interest establishing fair value are described in Note 1. Rates for the loans rates. EUR 500m bond and one of the EUR 100m loans have been are disclosed in Note 9 of the Parent company. hedged with interest rate swaps. The fixed EUR interest rates have 116 Notes Group 21 Leasing 2011 2010 Finance Operating Finance Operating Future minimum lease payments at 31 December (SEKm) Leases Leases Leases Leases Within one year 8 449 9 384 Later than one year but within five years 29 980 29 859 Later than five years 37 495 43 478 Total 74 1,924 81 1,721 Less: Interest -12 -11 Present value of minimum lease payments under finance leases 62 70 Less: Current portion -6 -6 Non-current portion 56 64 Net rental expense primarily related to operating leases was SEK USA, ­Sweden, Germany and Belgium. Contingent rentals, sub-lease 533 m (551). The most significant operating leases involve the use of revenues and future minimum lease payments for finance leases were buildings, other office locations as well as machines primarily in the not ­significant in any of the years presented. 22 Other short-term liabilities SEKm 2011 2010 Accrued salaries 1,175 1,376 Vacation pay 674 576 Social charges 528 437 Other current liabilities 1,755 1,681 Accrued expenses and deferred income 2,128 2,012 6,260 6,082 23 Assets pledged and contingent liabilities Assets that have been pledged to secure loans and other obligations (SEKm) 2011 2010 Mortgages on real estate 10 28 Chattel mortgages 46 46 56 74 Mortgages are stated at the nominal value of the mortgage deeds. The pledged assets secured loans and other obligations of SEK 6 m (11) at 31 December. Contingent liabilities at nominal values (SEKm) 2011 2010 Guarantees 26 40 Other contingent liabilities 15 21 41 61 Notes Group 117 24 Related parties 2011 2010 Jointly Jointly Associated controlled Associated controlled The SKF Group’s transactions with related parties (SEKm) ­companies ­companies ­companies ­companies Sales of goods and services 34 3 31 – Purchases of goods and services 116 143 115 438 Receivables as of 31 December 3 – 5 – Liabilities as of 31 December 4 – 2 1 In 2007 Knut och Alice Wallenbergs Stiftelse transferred its shares in SKF Group has had no indication that FAM has obtained its owner­ the Parent company to Foundation Asset Management Sweden AB ship interest in the Group for other than investment purposes. No (“FAM”). ­significant transactions have been identified between the parties FAM’s mission is to create, through co-ordination and in an efficient with the exception of dividend paid during the year to FAM. At the way, good and sustainable return for Knut och Alice Wallenbergs end of 2011 FAM is the major shareholder of the Parent company, ­Stiftelse, Marianne och Marcus Wallenbergs Stiftelse and Stiftelsen holding 29.4 % (28.6) of the voting rights and 12.9 % (12.0) of the Marcus och Amalia Wallenbergs Minnesfond (the “Foundations”). ­ share capital. Aim of the Foundations is to support research and education through Other related party transactions include remuneration to key contributions, primarily to Swedish universities. management as specified in Note 25. For a list of subsidiaries, see Note 6 to the financial statements of the Parent company. 25 Remuneration to Key Management Salaries and other remunerations for SKF Board of Directors, President and Group Management evaluation system, International Position Evaluation (IPE), in order to evaluate the scope and responsibility of the position. Market benchPrinciples of remuneration for Group Management marks are conducted on a regular basis. The performance of Group In April 2011, the Annual General Meeting adopted the Board’s proposal Management members is continuously monitored and used as a basis for principles of remuneration for Group Management, which are for annual reviews of fixed salaries. summarized below. Group Management is defined as the President and the other Variable salary ­members of the management team. The principles apply in relation to The variable salary of a Group Management member runs according members of Group Management appointed after the adoption of the to a performance-based programme. The purpose of the programme principles, and, in other cases, to the extent permitted under existing is to motivate and compensate value-creating achievements in order agreements. to support operational and financial targets. The objective of the principles is to ensure that the SKF Group can The performance-based programme is primarily based on the attract and retain the best people in order to support the SKF Group’s short-term financial performance of the SKF Group established mission and business strategy. Remuneration for Group Management according to the SKF management model Total Value Added (TVA). shall be based on market competitive conditions and at the same time TVA is a simplified economic value-added model. This model promotes support the shareholders’ best interests. greater operating profit, capital efficiency and profitable growth. TVA The total remuneration package for a Group Management member is the operating profit, less the pre-tax cost of capital in the country in consists primarily of the following components: fixed salary, variable which the business is conducted. The TVA result development for the salary, performance shares, pension benefits, conditions for notice of SKF Group correlates well with the trend of the share price over a termination and severance pay, and other benefits such as a company longer period of time. car. The components shall create a well balanced remuneration The maximum variable salary according to the programme is reflecting individual performance and responsibility as well as the capped at a certain percentage of the fixed annual salary. The perSKF Group’s overall performance. centage is linked to the position of the individual and varies between 40% and 70% for Group Management members. Fixed salary If the financial performance of the SKF Group is not in line with the The fixed salary of a Group Management member shall be at a market requirements of the variable salary programme, no variable salary competitive level. It will be based on competence, responsibility and will be paid. The maximum variable salary will not exceed 70% of the performance. The SKF Group uses an internationally well-recognized accumulated annual fixed salary of Group Management members. 118 Notes Group Performance Shares Pension The Annual General Meeting 2011 decided on the introduction of SKF’s The SKF Group strives to establish pension plans based on defined Performance Share Programme 2011. The terms and conditions of contribution models, which means that a premium is paid amounting SKF’s Performance Share Programme 2011 are in essence the same to a certain percentage of the employee’s annual salary. The commitas the terms and conditions of SKF’s Performance Share Programmes ment in these cases is limited to the payment of an agreed premium 2008, 2009 and 2010, included in the principles of remuneration for to an insurance company offering pension insurance. Group Management decided at the Annual General Meetings 2008, A Group Management member is normally covered by, in addition 2009 and 2010 and summarized in the Consolidated Financial Stateto the basic pension (for Swedish members usually the ITP pension ments Note 25 of the Annual Report 2010. The programme covers plan), a supplementary defined contribution pension plan. By offering a maximum of 310 senior managers and key employees in the SKF this supplementary defined contribution plan, it is ensured that Group Group, including Group Management, with the opportunity of being Management members are entitled to earn pension benefits based on allotted, free of charge, SKF B shares. the fixed annual salary above the level of the basic pension. The normal The number of shares that may be allotted must be related to the retirement age for Group Management members is 62 years. degree of achievement of the TVA target level, as defined by the Board of Directors, for the financial year 2011, and the TVA development for Notice of termination and severance pay the financial year 2013 compared to the financial year 2011. Under A Group Management member may terminate his/her employment the programme, no more than 1,000,000 B shares may be allotted. by giving six months’ notice. In the event of termination of employment Based on the TVA for the financial year 2011, the participants of at the request of the company, employment shall cease immediately. the programme may be preliminarily allotted a number of shares per The Group Management member shall however receive a severance person, however, not exceeding the following number of shares per payment related to the number of years’ service, provided that it shall person within the various key groups: always be maximized to two years’ fixed salary. • CEO and President – 10,000 shares • Division Presidents and Executive Vice President – 5,000 shares The Board of Directors’ right to deviate from the principles of remuneration • Other members of Group Management – 3,500 shares In certain cases, the Board of Directors may deviate from the principles • Managers of large business units and other senior managers – of remuneration decided by the Annual General Meeting. 1,250 1,800 shares Preparation of matters relating to remuneration for Group Management Following the expiry of the financial year 2013 a comparison is made The Board of Directors of AB SKF has established a Remuneration between TVA for the financial year 2011 and TVA for the financial year Committee. The Committee consists of a maximum four Board 2013. The development in TVA between the two financial years is set ­members. The Remuneration Committee prepares all matters relating out in percentage. Final allotment of shares is established by the preto the principles of remuneration for Group Management, as well as liminary number of allotted shares being multiplied with the percentthe employment conditions of the President. age development in TVA. If the development is positive the participants The principles for remuneration of Group Management are presented will thus receive an increased number of shares in final allotment to the Board of Directors that submits a proposal for such principles compared to the number preliminary allotted, whereas if the developto the Annual General Meeting for approval. The Board of Directors ment is negative the participants will receive a decreased number of must approve the employment conditions of the President. shares in final allotment compared to the number preliminary allotted. Final allotment may, however, never exceed 200% of the preliminarily Board of Directors allotted number of shares per person. The participants in the proThe Chairman of the Board and the Board members are remunerated gramme may thus in final allotment receive not more than the following in accordance with the decision taken at the Annual General Meeting. number of shares per person within the various key groups: At the Annual General Meeting of AB SKF held in 2011 it was decided • CEO and President – 20,000 shares that the Board be entitled to a fixed allotment of SEK 4,500,000 to be • Division Presidents and Executive Vice President – 10,000 shares distributed with SEK 1,200,000 to the Chairman of the Board and • Other members of Group Management – 7,000 shares with SEK 412,500 to each of the other Board members elected by the • Managers of large business units and other senior managers – Annual General Meeting and not employed by the company. 2,500 3,600 shares It was further decided that the Board be entitled to a variable The participants shall not provide any consideration for their rights ­allotment, calculated as below. The Chairman is entitled to a variable under the programme. allotment corresponding to the value of the number of SKF B shares, the value of which after the Annual General Meeting 2011 shall Other benefits amount to SEK 400,000. Each other Board member is entitled to a The SKF Group provides other benefits to Group Management ­members variable allotment corresponding to the value of the number of SKF B in accordance with local practice. The accumulated value of other shares, the value of which after the Annual General Meeting 2011 shall benefits shall, in relation to the value of the total remuneration, be amount to SEK 137,500. When deciding upon the variable allotment, limited and shall, as a principle, correspond to what is customary on (i) the number of shares shall be determined by dividing the amount of the relevant market. SEK 400,000 and SEK 137,500, respectively, with the average latest Other benefits can for instance be a company car, medical insurance payment rate of an SKF B share according to the quotations on the and home service. NASDAQ OMX Stockholm AB during the five trading days immediately following the day on which the share is traded without any right to receive dividend for 2011 and (ii) the value of an SKF B share shall be Notes Group 119 25 Remuneration to Key Management (cont.) determined at the average latest payment rate according to the In addition thereto, AB SKF shall pay a yearly premium corresponding ­quotations on the NASDAQ OMX Stockholm AB during the five trading to 35% of the difference between Tom Johnstone’s fixed annual salary days after publication of the company’s press release for the financial and the amount on which Tom Johnstone’s defined benefit pension is year 2011. calculated as described above. This part of Tom Johnstone’s pension is Finally, it was decided that an allotment of SEK 765,000 for coma defined contribution pension. The 2011 cost for Tom Johnstone’s mittee work shall be divided with SEK 175,000 to the Chairman of total pension benefits was recorded in the amount of SEK 5,419,364. the Audit Committee, with SEK 125,000 to each of the other members of the Audit Committee, with SEK 100,000 to the Chairman of Group Management the Remuneration Committee and with SEK 80,000 to each of the SKF’s Group Management, consisting of 14 people at the end of the other members of the Remuneration Committee. year, received in 2011 (exclusive of the President) salary and other remunerations amounting to a total of SEK 63,451,771, of which SEK President and Chief Executive Officer 44,796,839 was fixed annual salary, SEK 15,998,613 was short-term Tom Johnstone, President and Chief Executive Officer of AB SKF variable salary related to 2010 performance and SEK 2,656,319 was received from the company in year 2011 as salary and other remurelated to SKF´s Performance Share Programme 2008. The fixed nerations a total of SEK 11,103,301 which includes SEK 593,739 ­s alary is for the managers that have joined or left Group Management related to SKF´s Performance Share Programme 2008. Additionally, during the year, accounted in relation to the period that each individual Tom Johnstone was entitled to short-term variable salary of SEK has been a member of Group Management. 5,250,000 related to 2010 performance. The short-term variable The variable salary for Group Management was according to a salary was, however, not paid out in cash to Tom Johnstone but short-term performance-based programme primarily based on the ­converted into additional pension contribution. Tom Johnstone’s fixed financial performance of the SKF Group established according to the annual salary 2012 will remain unchanged and will amount to Group’s financial performance management model which is a simplified SEK 10,000,000. economic value-added model called Total Value Added (TVA), see The variable salary in 2011 was according to a short-term page 51. ­performance-based programme primarily based on the financial Group Management was in the beginning of 2011 allotted 16,421 performance of the SKF Group established according to the Group’s SKF B shares under SKF’s Performance Share Programme 2008. financial performance management model which is a simplified SKF’s Performance Share Programmes are further described on economic value-added model called Total Value Added (TVA), see pages 119 and 121. page 51. In the event of termination of employment at the request of the Tom Johnstone was in the beginning of 2011 allotted 3,330 SKF B company of a person in Group Management, that person will receive shares under SKF’s Performance Share Programme 2008. SKF’s a severance payment amounting to a maximum of two years’ salary. Performance Share Programmes are further described on pages 119 During 2003, the Board decided to introduce a defined contribution and 121. supplementary pension plan for Group Management of the Swedish In the event of termination at the request of AB SKF, Tom Johnstone companies within the SKF Group. Since 2005 the retirement age is will receive severance payments amounting to maximum two years’ 62 years. The President is not covered by this pension plan. The plan salary. entitles senior managers covered to receive an additional pension over Tom Johnstone’s retirement age is 60 years. Tom Johnstone is and above the pension covered by the ITP-plan. The contributions paid entitled to a lifelong defined benefit pension amounting to 40% of for senior managers covered by the defined contribution plan are based SEK 3,575,812 corresponding to SEK 1,430,325 per year. The on each individual’s pensionable salary (i.e. normally the fixed monthly amount SEK 3,575,812 shall be adjusted in accordance with the salary excluding holiday pay, converted to yearly salary) exceeding Income Base amount (defined in accordance with Chapter 1 § 6 of the 30 Income Base amounts. Some members of Group Management Act (1998:674) on income-based retirement pension) but not more employed before 2005 have defined benefit pension entitlements than 5% for each year. The defined benefit pension is gradually earned relating to previous pension plans. Group Management members according to the principles generally applied within the company. are never covered by both defined benefit pension and defined The pension is thereafter not conditioned upon future employment. ­contribution pension for the same part of their pension ­entitlements. 120 Notes Group Fixed salary and other Short-term variable RemuneraGross ­ enefits 1) / fixed Board b salary / variable Board Performance Share tion for com­pension ­remuneration remuneration ­P rogrammes mittee work costs 2) Amounts Amounts Amounts Amounts paid in 2011 Amounts paid in 2011 Amounts Amounts paid Amounts paid in expensed related to expensed related to expensed and expensed expensed Amounts in SEK 2011 3) in 2011 3) 2010 3) in 2011 3) prior years 3) in 2011 3) in 2011 3) in 2011 3) Board of directors of AB SKF Leif Östling 1,050,000 1,200,000 541,312 273,427 – – 225,000 – Ulla Litzén 368,750 412,500 202,992 91,747 – – 125,000 – Winnie Fok 368,750 412,500 202,992 91,747 – – – – Lena Treschow Torell 368,750 412,500 202,992 91,747 – – – – Peter Grafoner 368,750 412,500 202,992 91,747 – – 80,000 – Lars Wedenborn 368,750 412,500 202,992 91,747 – – 255,000 – Joe Loughrey 368,750 412,500 202,992 91,747 – – – – Jouko Karvinen 368,750 412,500 202,992 91,747 – – 80,000 – Baba Kalyani 206,250 412,500 – 118,675 – – – – Former Board member Hans-Olov Olsson 162,500 – 202,992 -26,928 – – – – CEO4) 10,509,562 12,062,892 5,250,0005) 4,549,998 593,739 1,657,339 – 5,419,364 Group Management 4), 6) 44,796,839 46,658,167 15,998,613 11,307,669 2,656,319 8,194,759 – 22,775,432 whereof AB SKF 36,566,785 38,374,392 13,451,686 8,371,646 2,300,253 6,742,913 – 20,976,285 Total 59,306,401 63,221,059 23,413,861 16,865,070 3,250,058 9,852,098 765,000 28,194,796 whereof AB SKF 51,076,347 54,937,284 20,866,934 13,929,047 2,893,992 8,400,252 765,000 26,395,649 1) Other benefits include housing, car and similar items. 2) Represents premiums paid under defined contribution plans as well as gross expenses under defined benefit plans. 3) Amounts paid represent the cash outflow and are amounts received by the individual during a specific calendar year. These amounts include remuneration for services rendered during given calendar year such as salary, but can also include remuneration for services rendered in a prior year where payment occurs subsequent to that year, for example the variable salary programmes. Amounts expensed refer primarily to the costs for the Group for services rendered during a specific calendar year by the individual, but can also include adjustments or reversals related to prior years. Consequently, differences between amounts paid and amounts expensed can arise as timing of the expense can be occurring in a different calendar year than the cash outflow to the individual. The most significant difference relates to the variable salary, variable Board remuneration and Performance Share Programmes, but also include difference related to accrued vacations and accumulated leave. However, no differences exist related to remuneration for committee work. 4) Total pension obligations related to Group Management (including CEO) and former CEO were SEK 81 m. 5) The short-term variable salary was not paid out in cash to the CEO but converted into a pension contribution. 6) Exclusive of CEO. Includes managers who have joined or left the Group Management during the year accounted in relation to the period that each individual has been a member of Group Management and includes only remuneration in their capacity as member of Group Management. SKF’s Performance Share Programmes Allotment of shares under SKF’s Performance Share Programme Since 2008 AB SKF’s Annual General Meeting has resolved each year 2008 was made in the beginning of 2011. In total 116,790 SKF B upon a performance share programme. All of the programmes cover shares were allotted pursuant to the terms of the programme, based each a maximum of 310 senior managers and key employees in the on the degree of achievement of TVA target level for the financial year SKF Group, including Group Management, with the opportunity of 2008, and TVA growth of 33.3% (the financial year 2010 compared to being allotted, free of charge, SKF B shares. The number of shares the financial year 2008). No allotment of shares will be made under that may be allotted must be related to the degree of achievement of SKF’s Performance Share Programme 2009 due to non-fulfillment of the Total Value Added (TVA) target level, as defined by the Board, for the TVA target for the financial year 2009. If all the conditions included the financial year at start of the respective programme, and the TVA in SKF’s Performance Share Programmes 2010 and 2011, respectively, development for the financial year at the end of the three year calculaare met, allotment of shares shall be made following the expiry of the tion period compared to the financial year at start of the programme three year calculation period, i.e. during 2013 for SKF’s Performance (i.e. 2011 compared to 2009 for SKF’s Performance Share Programme Share Programme 2010, and during 2014 for SKF’s Performance 2009, 2012 compared to 2010 for SKF’s Performance Share ProShare Programme 2011. gramme 2010, and 2013 compared to 2011 for SKF’s Performance For further details of SKF’s Performance Share Programmes, see Share Programme 2011). page 119. Under each of the programmes, no more than 1,000,000 B shares may be allotted. The participants shall not provide any consideration Costs for SKF’s Performance Share Programmes for their rights under the programmes and shall receive compensation SKF’s Performance Share Programmes are equity settled programmes in cash equal to the dividend paid out during the three year calculation and the Group accounts for them in accordance with IFRS 2. period. Allotment of shares normally requires that the persons covered The expenses for SKF’s Performance Share Programmes are by each of the programmes are employed in the SKF Group during the ­recognized both directly in equity and as an operating expense over entire calculation period. the vesting period 2009-2011, 2010-2012 and 2011-2013, respecNotes Group 121 25 Remuneration to Key Management (cont.) tively. The expenses are based both on the fair value of the SKF B Cash-settled share-based compensation share at grant date and the number of shares expected to vest on As part of their remuneration, the Board of Directors of AB SKF was 31 December of each year. The fair value of the SKF B share at grant granted by the Annual General Meeting 2011 a variable allotment, date was determined as SEK 80 for SKF’s Performance Share Procalculated as below. The variable allotment is corresponding to the gramme 2009, SEK 141 for SKF’s Performance Share Programme value of the number of SKF B shares, the value of which after the 2010, and SEK 177.6 for SKF’s Performance Share Programme Annual General Meeting 2011 shall amount to in total SEK 2011. Amounts expensed in 2011 were SEK 57 m excluding social 1,500,000. When deciding upon the variable allotment, (i) the number charges, relating to programmes 2008, 2010 and 2011. In 2009 of shares shall be determined by dividing the amount of SEK no costs were taken for any programmes. 1,500,000 with the average latest payment rate of an SKF B share To fulfil AB SKF’s obligations under the Performance Share Proaccording to the quotations on the NASDAQ OMX Stockholm AB durgramme 2008, which was settled in 2011, SKF International AB ing the five trading days immediately following the day on which the entered into an equity swap agreement with a financial institution. share is traded without any right to receive dividend for 2011 and (ii) The agreement included the possibility to get delivery of SKF shares the value of an SKF B share shall be determined at the average latest from the financial institution to the participants of the programme. payment rate according to the quotations on the NASDAQ OMX A provision amounting to SEK 9 m (10), covering all programmes, Stockholm AB during the five trading days after publication of the was recorded for social charges payable by the employer when the company’s press release for the financial year 2011. shares are allocated. The social charges were calculated for the Also the Annual General Meeting in 2010 granted the Board a varinumber of shares expected to vest and were based on the price of able allotment as part of their remuneration. This allotment correthe SKF B share on 31 December 2011, SEK 145.60. sponded to 12,800 SKF B shares. The compensation was based on the average latest price paid for the SKF B share on NASDAQ OMX Stockholm AB during the five trading days following the publication of the press release for the financial year 2010. Men and women in Board of Directors and Group Management 2011 2010 Number of Whereof Number of Whereof The Group persons men persons men Board of Directors of the Parent company incl. CEO 12 75% 12 75% Group Management incl. CEO 14 79% 13 77% Parent Company Board of Directors of the Parent company incl. CEO 12 75% 12 75% Group Management incl. CEO 11 73% 11 73% 26 Fees to the auditors Fees to SKF Group statutory auditors were split as follows (SEKm) 2011 2010 Audit fees 36 35 Audit related fees 1 2 Tax fees 4 3 Other fees to auditors 1 1 42 41 The Parent Company’s share (SEKm) Audit fees 3 3 Audit related fees – 1 Tax fees – – Other fees to auditors 1 – 4 4 Auditing assignments involve examination of the annual report and All other tasks are defined as Audit related fees, Tax fees or other fees financial accounting and the administration by the Board and the to auditors. At the Annual ­General Meeting of Shareholders in 2009, President, other tasks related to the duties of a company auditor and KPMG AB was elected auditor for AB SKF until the Annual General consultation or other services that may result from observations Meeting of Shareholders in 2013. noted during such examination or implementation of such other tasks. 122 Notes Group 27 Average number of employees 2011 2010 Number of Whereof Number of Whereof employees men employees men Parent Company in Sweden 249 56% 223 56% Subsidiaries in Sweden 2,684 81% 2,813 82% Subsidiaries abroad 39,953 79% 37,170 78% 42,886 79% 40,206 79% 2011 2010 Geographic specification of average number Number of Whereof Number of Whereof of employees in subsidiaries abroad employees men employees men France 3,548 82% 3,552 78% Italy 3,418 76% 4,131 77% Germany 5,235 87% 5,153 87% Other Western Europe excluding Sweden 3,982 81% 3,580 83% Central and Eastern Europe 4,023 65% 3,662 64% USA 5,142 75% 4,091 74% Canada 231 75% 200 77% Latin America 3,393 82% 2,772 80% Asia 10,727 80% 9,759 80% Middle East and Africa 254 74% 270 75% 39,953 79% 37,170 79% 28 Financial risk management The Group’s overall financial objective is to create value for its shareThe SKF Group’s operations are exposed to various types of financial holders. Over time, the return on the shareholders’ investment in the risks; market risks (being currency risk, interest rate risk and other SKF share should exceed the risk-free interest rate by around five price risks), liquidity risks and credit risks, each being discussed below. percentage points. This is the basis for the Group’s financial objectives The Group’s risk management incorporates a financial policy that and the financial performance management model. establishes guidelines and definitions of currency, interest rate, credit The SKF Group defines its managed capital as the capital employed. and liquidity risks and establishes responsibility and authority for the One of the Group’s long term financial targets is to achieve a return on management of these risks. The policy states that the objective is to capital employed of 27%. eliminate or minimize risk and to contribute to a better return through The capital structure target of the Group is the active management of risks. The management of the risks and the – a gearing of around 50%, which corresponds to responsibility for all treasury operations are largely centralized at SKF – an equity/assets ratio of around 35% or Treasury Centre, the Group’s internal bank. – a net debt/equity of around 80% The policy sets forth the financial risk mandates and the financial instruments authorized for use in the management of financial risks. Key figures1) 2011 2010 Financial derivative instruments are used primarily to manage the Total equity, SEKm 22,455 19,894 Group’s exposure to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates Gearing, % 48.9 48.6 and interest rates. The Group also uses financial derivative instruments Equity/assets ratio, % 37.8 36.62) for trading purposes, limited according to Group policy. Net debt/equity, % 72.5 80.5 Return on capital employed, % 23.6 24.0 Market risk – Currency risk 1) The Group is exposed to changes in exchange rates in the future flows Definition of these key figures is available on page 158. 2) Figure restated for finalized Lincoln PPA, see Note 1. of payments related to firm commitments and forecasted transactions and to loans and investments in foreign currencies, i.e. transaction The purpose of the targeted and current capital structure is to keep exposure. The Group’s accounts are also affected by translating the an appropriate balance between equity and debt financing. This will results and net assets of foreign subsidiaries into SEK, i.e. translation ensure financial flexibility and enable the Group to continue investing exposure. in its business while maintaining a strong credit rating. The Group’s policy and structure of debt financing are presented below. Notes Group 123 28 Financial risk management (cont.) Transaction exposure Market risk – Interest rate risk Transaction exposure mainly arises as a result of intra-Group trans­ The Group defines interest rate risk as the risk of negative fluctuations actions between the Group’s manufacturing companies and the in the Group’s cash flow caused by changes in the interest rates. Group’s sales companies, situated in other countries and selling the At year-end, total interest bearing financial liabilities amounted to SEK products to end-customers normally in local currency on their local 21,486 m (18,889) and total interest bearing financial assets amounted market. The Group’s principal commercial flows of foreign currencies to SEK 5,881 m (3,454). Liquidity management and ­borrowing is conpertain to exports from Europe to North America and Asia and to flows centrated to SKF Treasury Centre. By matching the duration of investof currencies within Europe. Currency rates and payment ­conditions ments and borrowings, the interest rate exposure of the Group can be to be applied to the internal trade between SKF companies are set by reduced. The objective of the SKF Group is to have a relatively short SKF Treasury Centre. Currency exposure and risk is primarily, and interest duration on the interest bearing assets and liabilities. to a large extent, reduced by netting internal transactions. In some To manage the interest rate risk and currency risk in the borrowing, countries, transaction exposure may arise from sales to external custhe SKF Group uses cross-currency interest rate swaps, where fixed tomers in a currency different from the local currency. The currency EUR interest rates are swapped into floating SEK interest rates and flows between SKF companies managed by SKF Treasury Centre were floating EUR interest rates are swapped into floating SEK interest reduced through netting from SEK 55,616 m (53,383) to SEK 5,753 m rates. The Group also has interest rate swaps where fixed SEK interest (5,338). This amount represented the Group’s main transaction rates are swapped into floating SEK interest rates. ­exposure excluding hedges. At 31 December 2011, given the prevailing net amount of interest The Group’s policy has been to hedge the currency flows from 3 to bearing financial liabilities an unfavorable change of the interest rates 12 months on average. Hedge accounting as defined by IAS 39 has for the year by 1% would have reduced pre-tax profit for the year, been limited to USD only. including the effect of derivatives, by SEK 74 m (106). For details on Net currency flows (SEKm) 2011 2010 interest rates of individual loans, see note 9 of the Parent company’s USD 5,720 5,587 financial statements. USD related 1) 3,024 3,345 EUR -3,501 -3,702 Market risk – Price risks Other2) 510 108 Market risks also include other price risks, where the relevant risk SEK -5,753 -5,338 variables for the Group are stock exchange prices or indexes. 1) As of 31 December, the Group held investments in equity securities AUD, CAD, NZD, SGD, THB and ZAR 2) Other is comprised of 10 different currencies with quoted stock prices, amounting to SEK 385 m (645), which are categorized as available for sale. If the market share prices had been For the commercial foreign exchange exposure, the SKF Group is 10% higher/lower at 31 December, equity would have increased/ ­primarily exposed to USD and USD related currencies against EUR decreased by SEK 39 m (65). and SEK, as shown in the table above. Based on the assumption that the net currency flows in USD and USD related currencies will be the Liquidity risk same for 2012 as in 2011, a sensitivity analysis shows that a 10% Liquidity risk, also referred to as funding risk, is defined as the risk stronger SEK against the USD and related currencies would have a that the Group will encounter difficulties in raising funds to meet negative effect on profit before taxes of approximately SEK 588 m ­commitments. (661), including the effects of hedging transactions. The effects of Group policy states that, in addition to current loan financing, the fluctuations upon the translation of subsidiaries’ financial statements Group should have a payment capacity in the form of available liquidity into the Group’s presentation ­currency are not considered. At year and/or long-term committed credit facilities. In addition to its own end, the outstanding USD hedges covered approximately 75% of liquidity, the Group had committed credit facilities of EUR 500 m ­estimated net USD flows for 5 months (6). ­syndicated by 10 banks at 31 December 2011 that will expire in 2014, The sensitivity analysis based on the outstanding positions at and committed credit facilities of SEK 3,000 m that will expire in 2017. 31 December shows that profit before taxes for the year would have A good rating is important in the management of liquidity risks. decreased and increased by SEK 12 m (10) if SEK had strengthened The long-term rating of the Group by Standard & Poor’s and Moody’s and weakened, respectively, by 10% against all other currencies. Investor Service is Aand A3 respectively. The corresponding effect on the hedge reserve in equity would have The table below show the Group’s contractually agreed and undisbeen an increase of SEK 149 m (81) and a decrease of SEK 149 m counted interest payments and repayments of the non-derivative (81), respectively. financial liabilities and derivatives with payment outflows. Translation exposure Translation exposure is defined as the Group’s exposure to currency risk arising when translating the results and net assets of foreign ­subsidiaries to SEK. To reduce the translation exposure, the Group has hedged some of its net investment in foreign subsidiaries, for details see page 126 and note 20. 124 Notes Group All instruments held at 31 December 2011 and for which payments Hedge accounting were already contractually agreed were included. Planning data for Fair Value Hedges future, new liabilities was not included. Amounts in foreign currency To hedge the fair value risk of fixed-interest liabilities, the SKF Group were translated at closing rate. The variable interest payments arisused cross-currency interest rate swaps (receive fixed EUR interest, ing from the financial instruments were calculated using the last pay SEK variable interest) for an amount of EUR 166 m (266) and interest rates fixed before 31 December 2011. Financial liabilities interest rate swaps (receive fixed EUR interest, pay EUR variable were assigned to the earliest possible time period when they can be interest) for an amount of EUR 600 m (0). Fixed-interest bonds required to be repaid. denominated in EUR were designated as hedged items. The changes 2011 Cash flows in the fair values of the hedged items resulting from changes in the 2017 and EUR swap curve were offset against the changes in the value of the SEKm 2012 2013 2014-2016 thereafter interest rate swaps. For the cross-currency interest rate swaps, the Loans -809 -4,062 -3,543 -6,047 aim of this hedging was to transform the EUR fixed-income bonds into Trade payables -4,698 – – – variable SEK interest debt, thus hedging the fair value of the financial Derivatives liabilities. For the interest rate swaps, the aim of this hedging is to Outflows -37,988 -413 -661 – transform the EUR fixed-income bonds into variable EUR interest Inflows 37,618 480 946 – debt, thus hedging the fair value of the financial liabilities related to Total -5,877 -3,995 -3,258 -6,047 interest risk. For those bonds the risk related to currency is hedged using a net investment hedge, see page 126. 2010 Cash flows The effectiveness of the hedging relationship is prospectively tested 2016 and using the critical terms match method. An effectiveness test is carried SEKm 2011 2012 2013-2015 t­ hereafter out retrospectively at each balance sheet date using the dollar-offset Loans -1,243 -313 -9,271 -1,879 method. The dollar-offset method compares past changes in the fair Trade payables -4,476 – – – value of the hedged item expressed in currency units with past changes Derivatives in the fair values of the used derivatives expressed in currency units. Outflows -31,891 -147 -163 – The changes in the fair value of the two transactions are calculated on Inflows 31,995 153 164 – the basis of the outstanding cash flows at the beginning and end of the Total -5,615 -307 -9,270 -1,879 test period adjusted for accrued interest. All hedging relationships were effective within the range of the ratios of the two past changes in value Credit risk (between 80 and 125%). When the effectiveness was being measured, Credit risk is defined as the Group’s exposure to losses in the event the change in the credit spread was not taken into account for calculatthat one party to a financial instrument fails to discharge an obligation. ing the change in the fair value of the hedged item. The SKF Group is exposed to credit risk from its operating activities As the list of the fair values of derivatives shows (see table in the and certain financing activities. Derivatives section), the Group had designated interest rate derivaThe maximum exposure to credit risk for the Group amounted to tives with a net amount of SEK 382 m (-163) as fair value hedges as SEK 17,036 m (13,592) as of the balance sheet date. The exposure is of 31 December 2011. represented by total financial assets that are carried on the balance The following table shows the changes in the fair value of the sheet with the exception of equity securities. No granting of signifihedges recorded in interest expense during the year. cant financial guarantees increasing the credit risk and no significant ­collateral agreements reducing the maximum exposure to credit risk Financial Financial existed as of the balance sheet date. ­e xpense ­e xpense SEKm 2011 2010 Financial liabilities (hedged items) 318 23 Credit risk (SEKm) 2011 2010 Cross-currency interest-rate swaps Trade receivables 10,713 9,859 (hedging instruments) -327 -21 Other receivables 975 994 Difference (inefficiency) -9 2 Derivatives 523 344 Cash and cash equivalent 4,825 2,395 Cash flow hedges Total 17,036 13,592 During 2011, forward exchange contracts were the derivative ­financial instruments used by the Group to hedge its foreign currency At operational level, the outstanding trade receivables are continurate exposure. ously monitored locally in each area. The Group’s concentration of Cash flow hedge accounting was applied to hedges of highly probable credit risk related to trade receivables is mitigated primarily due of its forecasted USD sales and the associated foreign currency risks arising many geographically and industrially diverse customers. Trade from changes in USD rates. In the 2011 financial year, losses totaling receivables are subject to credit limit control and approval procedures SEK 43 m (loss of 4) resulting from the change in the fair values of in all subsidiaries. currency derivatives used as cash flow hedges were taken to other With regard to financing activities, the Group’s policy states that comprehensive income. These changes ­constitute the effective portion only well-established financial institutions are approved as counterof the hedging relationship. During the year gains of SEK 119 m (gain parties. The major part of these financial institutions has signed an of 10) were transferred via other comprehensive income to net sales. ISDA agreement (International Swaps and Derivatives Association, There was no material ­ineffectiveness of these hedges recorded as of Inc.). Transactions are made within fixed ­limits and credit exposure the balance sheet date. per counterparty is continuously monitored. Notes Group 125 28 Financial risk management (cont.) Cash flow hedge accounting was also applied to hedges of forecasted A list of the fair values of derivatives is shown in the table in the electricity consumption. Electricity derivatives were used by the ­derivatives section below. ­factories in Sweden to reduce their exposure to changes in electricity prices. In the 2011 financial year, losses totaling SEK 25 m (gains of Hedges of net investments 34) resulting from the change in fair value of the electricity derivatives During 2011, net investments in foreign operations totalling EUR were taken to other comprehensive income. These changes constitute 1,142 m (884) were hedged by the Group against changes in the EUR/ the effective portion of the hedging relationship. During the year a SEK exchange rate. EUR loans for an amount of EUR 930 m, a cross gain of SEK 8 m (gain of 2) was transferred via other comprehensive currency swap to buy EUR for an amount of EUR 112 m to closing rate income to cost of goods sold. The ineffective part of the hedges and a forward contract to buy EUR for an amount of EUR 100 m were amounted to a loss of SEK 4 m (loss of 3) which was recorded in cost designated as hedge instruments, see Note 20. The result of the hedges of goods sold. totaled SEK 106 m (641) before tax in 2011 and was recognized as a The following table shows the contractual maturities of the outtranslation difference in other comprehensive income. No amount standing cash flow hedge instruments. The gain/loss of these hedge has been recycled from other comprehensive income to the income instruments will be recognized in profit or loss in the same period durstatement in 2011 or in 2010. ing which the forecasted hedged items affect profit or loss, see Note 1. Derivatives 2012 The table below shows the fair values of the various derivatives carried Nominal value Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 2013-2014 Total as of 31 December reflected as assets in Note 14 and liabilities in Note Currency derivatives, 20. A distinction is made depending on whether these are part of an USDm1) 162 151 6 6 – 325 effective hedging relationship as set out in IAS 39 (fair value hedge, net Electricity derivatives, investment hedge, cash flow hedge) or not. Other derivatives can also SEKm 12 11 10 12 22 67 be embedded (i.e. a component of a hybrid instrument that contains a non-derivative host contract). 1) The hedging effect of the majority of the USD contracts will be recognized in profit or loss 3 months after maturity. For the outstanding USD hedge contracts the average rate was 6.6520. Derivative assets and liabilities, net (SEKm) Category 2011 2010 Interest rate and currency swaps Fair value hedges Hedge accounting 382 -163 Net investment hedges Hedge accounting 25 – Economic hedges Trading -245 3 Currency forwards/currency options Cash flow hedges Hedge accounting -46 -2 Net investment hedges Hedge accounting 19 – Economic hedges Trading -364 105 Electricity derivatives Cash flow hedges Hedge accounting -12 24 Embedded derivatives Trading 3 -1 -238 -34 29 Events after balance sheet date As from 1 January 2012 SKF formed two new business areas, managing the total life cycle of the customers’ assets and will deliver Industrial Market, Strategic Industries and the Industrial Market, a full range of products, services and solutions to both OEMs and end Regional Sales and Service. They will replace the former Industrial users within different industries. Division and Service Division. Both business areas will focus on 126 Notes Group Parent Company income statements Years ended December 31 SEKm Note 2011 2010 Net sales 2,018 1,683 Cost of services provided 5, 8, 11 -2,018 -1,683 Gross profit – – Administrative expenses 5, 8, 11 -205 -213 Other operating income 3 – Other operating expenses -19 -14 Operating loss -221 -227 Income from participations in group companies 2 3,852 3,562 Financial income 2 404 295 Financial expenses 2 -867 -502 Profit after financial items 3,168 3,128 Change in untaxed reserves 3 -123 -178 Profit before tax 3,045 2,950 Taxes 4 -255 -274 Net profit 2,790 2,676 Parent Company statements of comprehensive income Years ended December 31 SEKm Note 2011 2010 Net profit 2,790 2,676 Other comprehensive income Change in fair value of available-for-sale assets 7 -260 169 Other comprehensive income -260 169 Total comprehensive income 2,530 2,845 Parent Company income statements 127 Parent Company balance sheets As of December 31 SEKm Not 2011 2010 ASSETS Non-current assets Property, plant and equipment 5 3 4 Investments in subsidiaries 6 22,634 22,257 Long-term receivables from subsidiaries 11,952 10,591 Investments in associated companies 6 1 15 Investments in equity securities 7 385 645 Deferred tax assets 4 23 25 34,998 33,537 Current assets Short-term receivables 1 – Short-term receivables from subsidiaries 2,154 2,616 Tax receivables 13 – Other short-term receivables 81 132 Prepaid expenses 5 4 Cash and cash equivalents 2 – 2,256 2,752 Total assets 37,254 36,289 EQUIT Y, PROVISIONS AND LIABILITIES Equity Restricted equity Share capital (455,351,068 shares, quota value SEK 2.50 per share) 1,138 1,138 Statutory reserve 918 918 2,056 2,056 Unrestricted equity Fair value reserve 165 425 Retained earnings 6,769 6,333 Net profit 2,790 2,676 9,724 9,434 11,780 11,490 Untaxed reserves 3 1,540 1,417 Provisions Provisions for post-employment benefits 8 193 162 Other provisions 1 3 194 165 Non-current liabilities Long-term loans 9 11,945 10,581 Long-term liabilities to subsidiaries 140 – 12,085 10,581 Current liabilities Short-term loans 9 – 556 Trade payables 14 17 Short-term liabilities to subsidiaries 11,329 11,792 Tax payables – 42 Other short-term liabilities 30 29 Accrued expenses and deferred income 282 200 11,655 12,636 Total shareholders’ equity, provisions and liabilities 37,254 36,289 Assets pledged – – Contingent liabilities 5 5 128 Parent Company balance sheets Parent Company statements of cash flow Years ended December 31 SEKm 2011 2010 Operating activities Operating loss -221 -227 Adjustments for Depreciation and amortization 1 1 Net gain(-) on sales of property, plant and equipment – -2 Net gain(-) on sales of equity securities – 4 Income taxes paid -306 -418 Payments under post-employment defined benefit plans -25 -21 Exercise of Performance Share Programmes -20 – Changes in working capital Trade payables -3 – Other operating assets and liabilities, net 429 3,207 Interest received 401 292 Interest paid -836 -470 Other financial items -28 -29 Net cash flow from operating activities -608 2,337 Investment activities Additions to property, plant and equipment – 1 Sales of property, plant and equipment – 8 Dividends received from subsidiaries 2,389 1,945 Sales of shares in subsidiaries 18 18 Investments in subsidiaries -395 -5,089 Net cash flow used in investing activities 2,012 -3,117 Net cash flow after investments before financing 1,404 -780 Financing activities Proceeds from mediumand long-term loans 5,443 4,642 Repayment of mediumand long-term loans -4,568 -2,268 Cash dividends to AB SKF’s shareholders -2,277 -1,594 Net cash flow used in financing activities -1,402 780 Increase(+)/decrease(-) in cash and cash equivalents 2 – Cash and cash equivalents at January 1 – – Cash and cash equivalents at December 31 2 – 2011 2011 Closing Exchange Change Opening Change in net interest-bearing liabilities (SEKm) balance rate effect in items balance Loans, longand short-term 11,945 -67 875 11,137 Provisions for post-employment benefits 193 – 31 162 Liabilities to subsidiaries, longand short-term 11,263 – -408 11,671 Receivables from subsidiaries, longand short-term -12,075 67 -845 -11,297 Cash and cash equivalents -2 – -2 – Net interest-bearing liabilities 11,324 – -349 11,673 2010 2010 Closing Exchange Change Opening Change in net interest-bearing liabilities (SEKm) balance rate effect in items balance Loans, longand shortterm 11,137 -1,200 2,374 9,963 Provisions for post-employment benefits 162 – 18 144 Liabilities to subsidiaries, longand short-term 11,671 – 4,058 7,613 Receivables from subsidiaries, longand short-term -11,297 1,224 -2,392 -10,129 Cash and cash equivalents – – – – Net interest-bearing liabilities 11,673 24 4,058 7,591 Parent Company statements of cash flow 129 Parent Company statements of changes in equity Restricted equity Unrestricted equity Share Statutory Fair value Retained SEKm capital 1) reserve reserve earnings Total Opening balance 1/1/2010 1,138 918 256 7,896 10,208 Net profit – – – 2,676 2,676 Components of other comprehensive income Change in fair value of available-for-sale assets – – 169 – 169 Cost under Performance Share Programmes 2) – – – 31 31 Dividend – – – -1,594 -1,594 Closing balance 31/12/2010 1,138 918 425 9,009 11,490 Net profit – – – 2,790 2,790 Components of other comprehensive income Change in fair value of available-for-sale assets – – -260 – -260 Cost under Performance Share Programmes 2) – – – 57 57 Exercise of Performance Share Programmes 2) – – – -20 -20 Dividend – – – -2,277 -2,277 Closing balance 31/12/2011 1,138 918 165 9,559 11,780 1) The distribution of share capital between share types is shown in Note 16 to the Consolidated financial statements. 2) See Note 25 to Consolidated financial statements for information about Performance Share Programmes. Restricted equity includes share capital and statutory reserves which are not available for dividend payments. Unrestricted equity includes retained earnings which can be distributed to shareholders. It also includes the fair value reserve which ­accumulates the changes in fair value of available-for-sale assets. 130 Parent Company statements of changes in equity Notes to the financial statements of the Parent Company Amounts in SEKm unless otherwise stated. Amounts in parentheses refer to comparable figures for 2010. 1 Accounting policies Basis of presentation Untaxed reserves The financial statements of the Parent company are prepared in The tax legislation in Sweden allows companies to make provisions accordance with the “Annual Accounts Act” and The Swedish Financial to untaxed reserves. Hereby, the companies may, with certain limits, Reporting Board recommendation RFR 2, “Accounting for Legal allocate and retain profits in the balance sheet instead of immediate ­Entities” as well as their interpretation (UFR). taxation. The untaxed reserves are taken into taxation at the time In accordance with RFR 2, IFRS is applied to the greatest extent of their dissolution. In the event that the business shows losses, the possible under Swedish legislation, but full compliance is not possible. untaxed reserves may be dissolved in order to cover the losses The areas in which the Parent company’s accounting policies differ without any taxation. from the Group’s are described below. For a description of the Group’s accounting policies, see Note 1 to the Consolidated financial statements. Restatements due to withdrawal of UFR2 During the year 2011, the Swedish Financial Reporting Board withPost-employment benefits drew UFR2 “Group contributions and Capital injections”. Accounting is With regard to pensions, the Group applies IAS 19, “Employee now done in accordance with the RFR2. Both received and paid group ­Benefits”, where as the Parent company continues to apply FAR’s contributions are now accounted for in a manner similar to dividends Recommen­dation RedR 4, ”Accounting of Pension Liabilities and received and paid from group companies in the Income statement. ­Pension Costs”. Previously they were shown directly in equity. The Income statements, Balance sheets and Statement of equity for 2010 have been restated Investments in subsidiaries accordingly. Investments in subsidiaries are recorded at acquisition cost, reduced by any impairment. 2 Financial income and financial expenses SEKm 2011 2010 Income from participations in Group companies Dividends from Group companies 2,389 1, 945 Received group contribution 1,612 1,645 Paid group contribution -9 -8 Other financial income from investments in subsidiaries – 4 Impairment of investments in subsidiaries -140 -24 3,852 3,562 Interest income and similar items Interest income from subsidaries 401 292 Other financial income 3 3 404 295 Financial expenses Interest expenses to subsidiaries -434 -182 Interest expenses to external parties -402 -288 Other financial expense -31 -32 -867 -502 Other income from investments in subsidiaries consists of Group-internal profits in connection with sales of shares in subsidiaries and ­liquidation surpluses. Notes Parent Company 131 3 Untaxed reserves Change in untaxed reserves (SEKm) 2011 2010 Change in tax allocation reserves -123 -179 Change in accelerated depreciation reserve – 1 -123 -178 Untaxed reserves (SEKm) Accelerated depreciation reserve 1 1 Tax allocation reserves 1,539 1,416 1,540 1,417 4 Taxes Taxes on profit before taxes (SEKm) 2011 2010 Current taxes -252 -276 Deferred taxes -3 2 -255 -274 Net deferred taxes per type (SEKm) 2011 2010 Provisions for post-employment benefits 20 23 Other 3 2 Deferred tax assets 23 25 Reconciliation of the statutory tax in Sweden and the current tax (SEKm) 2011 2010 Tax calculated using the statutory tax rate in Sweden -801 -776 Non-taxable dividends and other financial income 629 512 Other non-deductible and non taxable profit items, net -83 -10 Actual tax -255 -274 The corporate statutory income tax rate in Sweden was 26.3% in 2011 and 2010. 5 Property, plant and equipment 2011 2010 Closing Opening SEKm balance Additions Disposals balance Acquisition cost Buildings 4 – – 4 Machine toolings and factory fittings 13 – – 13 17 – – 17 2011 2010 Closing Opening SEKm balance Depreciation Disposals balance Accumulated depreciation Buildings 1 – – 1 Machine toolings and factory fittings 13 1 – 12 14 1 – 13 Net book value 3 -1 – 4 132 Notes Parent Company 6 Investments in subsidiaries and associated companies Significant investments in subsidiaries are specified below. Investments in associated companies were SEK 1m (15) and include a 50% holding in AEC Japan Co. Ltd and a 30% holding in Endorsia.com International AB. Disposals Disposals Investments in subsidiaries held by the and capital and capital Parent company on December 31 (SEKm) 2011 Additions Impairm. repayments 2010 Additions Impairm. repayments 2010 Investments in subsidiaries 22,634 535 -140 -18 22,257 5,089 -25 -18 17,211 2011 2010 Registration No. of Holding Book No. of Holding Book Name and location number shares in percent value shares in percent value Manufacturing companies SKF USA Inc., USA – 1,000 100 2,234 1,000 100 2,234 SKF Österreich AG, Austria – 200 100 176 200 100 176 SKF Española S.A.,Spain – 3,650,000 100 383 3,650,000 100 383 SKF Polska S.A, Poland – 3,701,466 100 156 3,701,466 90.6 156 SKF Bearings Bulgaria EAD, Bulgaria – 24,664,309 100 183 24,664,309 100 183 SKF Ukraine, Ukraine – 821,379,918 99.8 176 821,379,918 99.8 113 SKF do Brasil Limitada, Brazil – 243,461,248 99.9 540 243,461,248 99.9 538 SKF Argentina S.A., Argentina – 890,144 2.4 3 890,144 2.4 3 SKF India Ltd., India – 246,390,480 46.7 94 246,390,480 46.7 94 SKF Couplings Systems AB, Hofors, Sweden 556019-4150 7,500 100 259 7,500 100 259 SKF Sealing Solutions AB, Landskrona, Sweden 556133-3625 – – – 10,000 100 18 SKF Sealing Solutions Korea Co., Ltd., Republic of Korea – 153,200 51.0 15 153,200 51.0 15 PT. SKF Indonesia, Indonesia – 76,380 85.8 35 76,380 85.8 35 SKF de Mexico S.A. de C.V., Mexico – 108,224,966 32.3 65 108,224,966 32.3 65 SKF Technologies (India) Private Limited, India – 826,500,101 82.7 243 626,500,101 78.3 187 Sales companies SKF Danmark A/S, Denmark – 5 100 7 5 100 7 SKF Norge A/S, Norway – 50,000 100 0 50,000 100 0 Oy SKF Ab, Finland – 48,100 100 12 48,100 100 12 SKF Logistics Services Belgium NV/SA, Belgium – 29,907,952 99.9 28 29,907,952 99.9 6,236 SKF Portugal, Portugal – 61,601 95.0 4 61,601 95.0 4 SKF Ložiska, a.s., Czech Republic – 430 100 10 430 100 10 SKF Budaors, Hungary – 20 100 0 20 100 0 SKF Canada Limited, Canada – 100,000 76.9 0 100,000 76.9 0 SKF del Peru S.A., Peru – 2,564,903 99.9 0 2,564,903 99.9 0 SKF Chilena S.A.I.C., Chile – 88,192 100 0 88,192 100 0 SKF Venezolana S.A., Venezuela – 194,832 100 35 194,832 100 35 SKF Asia Pacific Pte Ltd., Singapore – 1,000,000 100 0 1,000,000 100 0 PT. Skefindo Primatama, Indonesia – 5 5.0 1 5 5.0 1 SKF Pakistan private Ltd, Pakistan – 1,781,295 100 2 1,781,295 100 2 SKF New Zealand Ltd, New Zealand – 375,000 100 0 375,000 100 0 SKF Lubrication Comp. Center, Linköping, Sweden 556124-6082 1 000 100 8 1,000 100 8 SKF Eurotrade AB, Göteborg, Sweden 556206-7610 83,500 100 12 83,500 100 12 SKF Multitec AB, Helsingborg, Sweden 556236-4595 29,500 100 5 29,500 100 5 Monitoring Control Center MCC AB, Kiruna, Sweden 556644-8295 3,375 67.5 1 3,375 67.5 1 SKF Condition Monitoring Center (Luleå) AB, Luleå, Sweden 556236-9263 5,000 100 10 5,000 100 10 Carried forward 4,697 10,802 Notes Parent Company 133 6 Investments in subsidiaries and associated companies (cont.) 2011 2010 Registration No. of Holding Book No. of Holding Book Name and location number shares in percent value shares in percent value Carried forward – 4,697 10,802 Other companies Bearing Holdings UK, United Kingdom – 6,965,000 100 120 6,965,000 100 120 SKF Holding B.V., The Netherlands – 60,002 100 5,042 60,002 100 5,042 SKF Belgium NV/SA, Belgium – 650,506 99.9 9,802 650,505 99.9 3,593 SKF Verwaltungs AG, Switzerland – 500 100 502 500 100 502 SKF Holding Mexicana, S.A. de C.V., Mexico – 2,268,763 98 104 2,268,763 98.0 104 SKF China Company Ltd. Shanghai, China – 133,400 100 1,135 133,400 100 935 SKF Korea LTD, Republic of Korea – 128,667 100 74 128,667 100 74 SKF Treasury Centre Asia Pacific Pte Ltd., Singapore – 61,500,000 100 467 61,500,000 100 468 SKF South Africa Pty.Ltd, South Africa – 1,422,480 100 43 1,422,480 100 43 SKF Australia (Manufacturing) Pty. Ltd., Australia – 96,500 100 0 96,500 100 0 SKF Thailand Ltd, Thailand – 1,847,000 92.4 37 1,847,000 92.4 37 SKF Uruguay S.A., Uruguay 209,989,200 100 73 – – – SKF International AB, Göteborg, Sweden 556036-8671 20,000 100 320 20,000 100 320 Återförsäkringsaktiebolaget SKF, Göteborg, Sweden 516401-7658 30,000 100 125 30,000 100 125 SKF Förvaltning AB, Göteborg, Sweden 556350-4140 124,500 99.6 40 124,500 99.9 40 Bagaregården 16:7 KB, Göteborg, Sweden 916622-8529 – – 531) 99.9 52 1) 22 634 22,257 1) The Parent company’s share of the equity in the limited partnership company is disclosed as the nominal value. Investments in major SKF subsidiaries held by other subsidiaries Owned by Name and location (Holding in percent) 2011 subsidiary in: SKF GmbH, Schweinfurt, Germany 100 The Netherlands SKF Industrie S.p.A, Airas, Italy 100 The Netherlands SKF France S.A., Montigny-le-Bretonneux, France 100 France Transrol S.A.S, Chambery, France 99.9 France SKF (U.K.) Ltd., Luton, United Kingdom 100 United Kingdom SKF China Ltd., Hong Kong, China 100 China SKF India Ltd., Mumbai, India 0.4 Sweden SKF India Ltd., Mumbai, India 6.5 United Kingdom RFT S.p.A., Turin, Italy 100 Italy SKF Lubrication Systems Germany AG, Berlin, Germany 100 Germany SKF Aerospace France, Saint-Vallier-sur-Rhône, France 100 France SKF Argentina S.A., Buenos Aires, Argentina 97.5 Switzerland SKF de Mexico, Puebla, Pue, Mexico 67.6 Mexico SKF Canada Ltd., Scarborough, Canada 23.1 The Netherlands SKF Sealing Solutions GmbH, Leverkusen-Opladen, Germany 100 Germany SKF Malaysia Sdn.Bhd., Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia 100 China SKF Linearsysteme GmbH, Schweinfurt, Germany 100 Germany SKF Japan Ltd., Tokyo, Japan 100 The Netherlands SKF B.V., Nieuwegein, The Netherlands 100 The Netherlands SKF Sverige AB, Göteborg, Sweden 100 Sweden SKF Mekan AB, Katrineholm, Sweden 100 Sweden Economos Austria GmbH, Judenburg, Austria 100 Austria SKF Aeroengine France, Valenciennes, France 100 France Lincoln Holdings Enterprises Inc., USA 100 USA SKF Taiwan Co, Ltd., Taipei, Taiwan 100 The Netherlands ABBA Taipei, Taipei, Taiwan 99.3 Taiwan SKF Wazhou Bearings , Dalian, China 51.0 China Nankou SKF Bearings, Peking, China 51.0 China SKF SS Wuhu Co. Ltd., Wuhu, China 100 China 134 Notes Parent Company 7 Investments in equity securities Nominal 2011 2010 Holding Number value in local­ Book value, Book value, Name and location in percent of shares Currency currency, millions SEKm SEKm Wafangdian Bearing Company Limited, China 19.7 79,300,000 CNY 33 356 586 NN, Inc., USA 4.5 700,000 USD 2 29 59 385 645 8 Provisions for post-employment benefits All white collar workers of the Company are covered by the ITP-­ limited group of managers. This DC-scheme replaced the previous plan according to collective agreements. Additionally the Company supplementary defined benefit plan which from 2003 is closed for sponsors a complementary defined contribution, (DC) scheme for a new participants. Amount recognised in the balance sheet (SEKm) 2011 2010 Present value of funded pension obligations 180 169 Less: Fair value of plan assets -157 -156 Net obligation 23 13 Present value of unfunded pension obligations 170 149 Net provisions for post-employment benefits 193 162 SEK 193 m (162) of the net provision relates to “Tryggande-lagen”. Change in provision for the year (SEKm) 2011 2010 Opening balance January 1 162 144 Pension cost excluding interest expense 52 41 Interest expense 5 5 Return on plan assets -1 -7 Pension payments -25 -21 Closing balance December 31 193 162 Components of expense (SEKm) Pension cost excluding interest expense 52 41 Interest expense 5 5 Return on plan assets -1 -7 Defined benefit expense 56 39 Defined contribution expense 43 39 Total expense 99 78 The calculation of defined benefit pension obligations have been made The discount rate for the ITP-plan is 4.0% (4.0%) and for the other in accordance with regulations stipulated by the Swedish Financial ­defined benefit plan it is 3.5% (3.6%). Expected cash outflows for 2012 Supervisory Authority, FFFS 2007:24 and FFFS 2007:31. are SEK 21 m. Notes Parent Company 135 9 Loans 2011 2010 Carrying Fair Carrying Fair SEKm Maturity Interest rate amount value amount value Bonds SEK 485 m 2011 – – 111 112 EUR 500 m (Outstanding EUR 396 m) 2013 4.25 3,542 3,739 3,565 3,796 EUR 100 m 2015 2.95 895 916 895 895 SEK1,000 m 2017 3.42 1,000 1,001 – – EUR 500 m 2018 3.88 4,450 4,762 – – Long-term loans SEK 1,015 m (Outstanding SEK 445 m) 2011 – – 445 445 EUR 150 m (Outstanding EUR 50 m) 2013 1.30 – – 450 450 EUR 130 m 2014 4.22 1,163 1,169 1,170 1,176 EUR 400 m 2014 – – 3,601 3,602 EUR 100 m 2016 1.71 895 895 900 900 11,945 12,482 11,137 11,376 The current portion of bonds is included in short-term loans. Fair value has been calculated by discounting future cash flows at the market ­interest rate for each maturity. 10 Salaries, wages, other remunerations, average number of employees and men and women in Management and Board See Note 25 to the Consolidated financial statements for information on financial statements for the average number of employees and remuneration to the Board and president as well as men and women to Note 26 to the Consolidated financial statements for fees to the in management and the board. Refer to Note 27 to the Consolidated auditors. SEKm 2011 2010 Salaries, wages and other remuneration 299 259 Social charges (whereof post-employment benefit expense) 172 (99) 177 (78) 11 Related parties Information regarding sales to and costs invoiced from subsidiaries to subsidiaries are presented in the balance sheet. For related is included in the reported cost of services provided and amounted to party transactions involving key management, see Note 25 to the SEK 1,528 m (1,288). Financial income from and financial expense to Consolidated financial statements. subsidiaries is presented in Note 2. Assets ­and liabilities attributable 12 Events after balance sheet date The Group has in 2012 introduced a new Transfer Pricing Policy and model has changed and will shift from being a service provider to will during a phase out period centralize the majority of the ownership being an entrepreneur with the right to the residual profit, taking of intellectual property to AB SKF. This means that AB SKF’s business costs for R&D and other management services. 136 Notes Parent Company Proposed distribution of surplus Fair value reserve SEK 164,939,950 Retained earnings SEK 6,767,952,001 Net profit for the year SEK 2,790,310,570 Total surplus SEK 9,723,202,521 The Board of Directors and the President recommend to the shareholders, a dividend of SEK 5.50 per share 1) SEK 2,504,430,8742) to be carried forward: Fair value reserve SEK 164,939,950 Retained earnings SEK 7,053,831,697 SEK 9,723,202,521 1) Suggested record day for right to dividend, April 30, 2012. 2) Board Members’ statement: The members of the Board are of the opinion that the proposed dividend is justifiable considering the demands on Company and Group equity imposed by the type, scope and risks of the business and with regards to the Company’s and the Group’s financial strength, liquidity and overall position. The results of operations and the financial position of the Parent Company, AB SKF, and the Group for the year 2011 are given in the income statements and in the balance sheets together with related notes. The Board of Directors and the President certify that the annual financial report has been prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in Sweden and that the consolidated accounts have been prepared in accordance with the international set of accounting standards referred to in Regulation (EC) No 1606/2002 of the European Parliament and of the Council of July 19, 2002 on the application of international accounting standards, and give a true and fair view of the position and profit or loss of the Company and the Group, and that the management report for the Company and for the Group gives a fair review of the development and performance of the business, position and profit or loss of the Company and the Group, and describes the principal risks and uncertainties that the Company and the companies in the Group face. Stockholm, January 26, 2012 Leif Östling (Chairman) Peter Grafoner (Board member) Lennart Larsson (Board member) Ulla Litzén (Board member) Lars Wedenborn (Board member) Kennet Carlsson (Board member) Tom Johnstone (President and CEO, Board member) Joe Loughrey (Board member) Jeanette Stenborg (Deputy board member) Winnie Fok (Board member) Jouko Karvinen (Board member) Martin Björkman (Deputy board member) Lena Treschow Torell (Board member) Baba Kalyani (Board member) Our auditors’ report for this Annual Report and the consolidated Annual Report was issued February 29, 2012. KPMG AB Thomas Thiel Authorized public accountant Proposed distribution of surplus 137 Notes – Environmental and social performance Environmental data In these notes, quantitative information and data about SKF’s units are included when they are at the same site as manufacturing or environmental performance is provided. For qualitative information logistics. Separate sales offices are excluded due to their minor enviand examples of how SKF works to improve environmental ronmental impact. Joint ventures performance please see Administration Report, Environmental are included where SKF has management control. Care, pages 56-62. For more detailed data please refer to the Information is reported at a local operating unit level, aggregated Environmental data performance spreadsheet available on skf.com, to site, country/division, and Group level. Data verification is performed choose Investors and Reports. at each level before submitting to external auditors for verification. Scope and data collection: All environmental data reported in The reporting of greenhouse gas emissions is done in accordance with the SKF Annual Report – Environmental Care and in notes to envithe Greenhouse Gas Reporting (GHG) protocol published by the World ronmental data was compiled either quarterly or annually using a Business Council for Sustainable Development and the World web-based reporting tool. It covers all the Group’s manufacturing Resource Institute. sites, technical and engineering centres and logistics centres. Sales 1 Carbon dioxide emissions (tonnes) from Scope 1 and 2 Emissions generated directly by SKF units – Scope 1 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 LPG 4,234 3,608 2,671 3,770 3,907 4,176 Fuel oil 5,082 6,364 5,182 5,543 6,369 11,495 Natural gas 54,656 57,921 55,554 64,726 67,139 66,664 Total 63,972 67,893 63,407 74,039 77,415 82,336 Emissions generated by energy suppliers to SKF – Scope 2 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 Electricity 406,147 382,517 318,563 394,228 433,408 435,312 Heating energy 33,898 42,075 34,376 37,309 41,902 45,983 Total 440,045 424,592 352,940 431,537 475,310 481,294 Result for scope 1 and 2 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 Result before purchase of VER, tonnes* 504,017 492,485 416,347 505,576 552,725 563,630 Result after purchase of VER’s** 424,017 452,485 * 2006 to 2011 figures adjusted for acquisitions in accordance with the GHG protocol. ** Voluntary Emission Reduction (VER) certificates which had been grid. Fifty-eight wind turbines have been constructed, with a total produced according to the Voluntary Carbon Standard (VCS). For the installed capacity of 49.3 MW. 2011 period, these VERs have been produced by the Changtu Wind In total, the Changtu Wind Power Project provides approximately Power Project located in Liaoning Province, China (a province in which 101,420 MWh of electricity per year and delivers an estimated SKF has several large manufacturing sites). This project uses wind 115,689 tonnes of emissions reductions per year (of which SKF has energy to generate clean electricity for the North-East China power purchased 80,000 tonnes) as well as providing local employment. Note 2a-2d: Transport data SKF Logistics Services downstream (from SKF to customer) transnot yet been included due to the difficulties of obtaining reliable portation of goods. The reporting scope includes global air and sea data from logistics providers in these locations. The reporting period freight and the express and road transportation networks within the was Q4 2010 to Q3 2011. It lags one quarter due complexity of data European Union. Road transportation in markets outside Europe has compilation. 138 Notes – Environmental and social performance 2a Shipped weight and CO2 emission per year (Q4 2010 to Q3 2011) Tonnes 2011 2010 2009 Shipped weight 532,795 401,270 289,000 CO2 emissions 57,800 46,300* 41,000 *Restatement from last year. The general assumptions for calculation of CO2 emissions from sea freight were changed during the year, figures are adjusted from 48,000 tonnes. 2b Fill rate 2011 2010 2009 81% 77% 72% The fill rate indictor covers SKF Logistics Services’ own shipments by truck in the DTS network (Daily Transportation System Network). 2c Shipped weight per transport mode per year (Q4 2010 to Q3 2011) 2011 2010 Shipped weight per transport mode Road 63% 67% Sea 35% 31% Express <0.5% <0.5% Air 1.5% 2% 2d Proportion of CO2 emission per transport mode per year (Q4 2010 to Q3 2011) 2011 2010 Shipped weight per transport mode Road 16% 18% Sea 23% 23% Express 2% 2% Air 59% 57% 3 Material use Tonnes 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 Metal as raw material in total 523,237 546,934 387,348 572,210 625,289 602,454 Metal as raw material from external suppliers 410,487 412,068 297,950 431,781 431,076 361,953 Rubber as raw material in total 5,519 5,050 3,945 5,221 5,043 4,791 Rubber as raw material from external suppliers 4,354 3,915 2,961 3,757 2,621 2,265 Coal* 1,124 783 488 237 441 1,180 *Coal is used by SKF as an alloying element in steel production, not as fuel. 4 Chemical use 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 Alcohols, tonnes 1,542 1,514 1,293 1,569 1,395 1,283 Solvents, tonnes 847 1,144 1,075 1,435 1,596 1,888 Hydraulic Oil, tonnes 2,515 2,501 1,932 3,039 3,209 3,016 Grease, tonnes 1,515 1,416 1,175 1,639 1,728 1,804 PCB, Sites with 1 1 1 1 2 1 Other oils, tonnes 3,856 3,114 3,160 4,130 8,103 8,910 Lubrication Oils, tonnes 986 880 649 887 – – Cutting Oils, tonnes 2,442 2,656 1,971 9,478 – – ODS-Class I Manufacturing, kilogram 0 0 0 0 0 19 ODS-Class II Manufacturing, kilogram 0 15 1 88 121 191 ODS-Class III Manufacturing, kilogram 138 119 24 – – – ODS-Class I Non-Manufacturing, kilogram 0 30 30 – – – ODS-Class II Non-Manufacturing, kilogram 124 107 253 – – – ODS-Class III Non-Manufacturing, kilogram 294 477 281 – – – Notes Environmental and social performance 139 5 Water use and discharge 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 Water consumption (1,000 N cubic metre) 5,584 5,652* 6,898 7,622 6,956 7,084 * Restatement from last year: Due to a reporting error from one site, the water consumption figure for 2010 must be restated. The corrected figure is 5,652 million cubic metres. 6 Residual products and recycling 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 Turning Chips, tonnes 54,536 64,782 51,085 83,444 92,919 90,713 Turning Chips Recycled, % 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% Other metal scrap, tonnes 6,090 7,487 7,670 18,413 76,599 73,522 Other metal scrap recycled, % 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% Grinding swarf, tonnes 23,221 20,899 15,740 24,324 25,125 23,427 Grinding Swarf Recycled, % 68% 67% 70% 64% 67% 65% Used oils, tonnes 3,899 4,275 3,880 5,742 5,510 4,869 Used oils recycled, % 95% 94% 96% 97% 93% 76% Paper and carton, tonnes 4,171 4,084 3,390% 4,194 4,223 3,946 Paper and carton recycled, % 96% 98% 96% 97% 97% 98% Waste sent to landfi ll, tonnes 10,938 10,722 7,740 10,046 16,194 13,250 Social data In this section the quantitative data of SKFs Social performance is Scope: The SKF Group Employee Data published in the Employee presented. Qualitative information and examples on SKF’s social Care section (and below in note 7-11) is collected annually, compiled performance can be found in the Administration Report under the and aggregated from local operating unit levels. All figures in the Employee Care and Community Care sections, pages 63-71. For employee data reflects the current state on the 31 of December each more information, please also visit skf.com, choose Investors and year. Figures are not adjusted for acquisitions and divestments. Data Reports. verification is performed at each level before submitting Employee to external retention rate by region, % auditors for verification. 7 Employee retention rate by region, % % Percent 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 90 91 94 97 97 100 88 Asia 88 91 94 86 87 91 80 Africa 90 94 95 88 86 90 60 North America 91 95 96 91 90 91 Latin America 94 93 96 95 94 96 40 Eastern and Central Europe 97 96 95 90 95 96 20 Western Europe 97 96 96 96 96 97 0 Group 94 95 95 93 94 95 ia ric a ica ica ra l op e As Af er er nt pe ur Am Am Ce uro n E & E r rth tin n te No La er es st W Ea 06 07 08 09 10 11 42x33 mm 80 80 140 Notes – Environmental and social performance Trade uninon 8 Units by region with independent trade union, % % 100 Percent 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 100 88 Asia 54 52 65 60 61 61 80 63 Africa 0 0 0 0 0 0 54 60 North America 30 28 30 28 35 35 Latin America 100 100 100 100 100 80 40 30 Eastern and Central Europe 63* 100 100 100 100 100 20 Western Europe 88 88 90 88 88 84 0 0 Group 65 66 71 67 70 68 ia a l As ric ica ica ra pe Af er er nt pe uro A m A m Ce Euro n E *Two new units (SKF Solution Factories) was included which not yet have put this in place. HIV/Aids rt h tin n & te r No La er es a st W E 9 Units by region with HIV/Aids programme, % % 100 42x33 mm Percent 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 100 80 Asia 14 16 20 25 17 6 80 06 07 08 80 09 10 11 Africa 100 100 100 100 100 100 60 48 North America 48 48 52 45 46 12 40 33 Latin America 33 33 33 40 20 20 22 14 Eastern and Central Europe 0 0 0 0 0 0 20 Western Europe 22 20 20 20 16 10 0 0 ia a l Group 26 26 28 27 24 11 As ric ica ica ra pe Af er er nt pe uro Am A m Ce Euro n E h & r rt tin n te No La er es st W Ea 10 Local site management with at least one female, by region, % Percent 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006* Asia 54 56 50 60 67 – 42x33 mm Africa 100 100 100 100 100 – 80 06 07 08 80 09 10 11 North America 85 70 70 72 77 – Latin America 67 67 67 60 60 – Eastern and Central Europe 88 100 100 100 100 – Western Europe 82 78 86 80 80 – Group 76 72 76 75 77 68 *2006 data per region is not available. % female among total No of level A&B managers (year over year) 11 Total percentage of females in site management, by region, % % Percent 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 20 18 16 17 16 16 Asia 9 8 8 9 9 9 16 14 Africa 33 50 20 20 24 15 12 North America 18 16 16 15 18 15 8 Latin America 17 13 11 9 7 10 Eastern and Central Europe 38 46 46 46 35 24 4 Western Europe 18 17 19 18 17 14 0 Group* 17 16 18 16 16 14 06 07 08 09 10 11 *The proportion of females in the Group’s total workforce is 21%. 12 Accident rate for the Group 42x33 mm 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 80 Accident rate 1.05 1.18 1.29 1.54 1.53 1.72 80 The accident rate for the Group is ­calculated using the formula: Health and safety data was also collected quarterly using the web-based reporting tool Accident rate = R x 200,000 / H, where described previously. SKF adopts the US Occupational Safety and Health Administration’s R = number of recordable accidents and (OSHA) standard for ­defining recordable accidents and its formula for calculating accident rates. H = total hours worked at the site/company Notes – Environmental and social performance 141 Auditor’s report To the Annual General Meeting of the shareholders of AB SKF (publ). Corporate identity number 556007-3495 We have been engaged by the annual general meeting of AB SKF (publ) to conduct audit regarding the financial year 2011. Further we have been engaged by the board of AB SKF (publ) to conduct a review of the environmental and social performance in SKF Annual Report 2011 – Financial, environmental and social performance. We have conducted the audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing and generally accepted auditing standards in Sweden. We have conducted the review in accordance with RevR6 Assurance of sustainability reports published by Far. Both engagements are reported to the annual general meeting of AB SKF (publ) through this report. Report on the annual accounts and Report on other legal and regulatory Review Report on the environmental ­consolidated accounts requirements and social performance We have audited the annual accounts and In addition to our audit of the annual accounts We have reviewed the environmental and consolidated accounts of AB SKF (publ) for and consolidated accounts, we have examined social performance in SKF Annual Report the year 2011 with exception of the environthe proposed appropriations of the company’s 2011 – Financial, environmental and social mental and social performance in SKF Annual profit or loss and the administration of the performance. The environmental and social Report 2011 – Financial, environmental and Board of Directors and the Managing Director performance is constituted by the sustainasocial performance. The environmental and of AB SKF (publ) for the year 2011. bility information on business care (page 45), social performance is primarily constituted environmental care, employee care and by information listed under the heading ­community care found on pages 56 –71, “Review Report on the environmental and ­Notes – Environmental and social performance social performance”. The annual accounts on pages 138 –141 in the annual accounts and and consolidated accounts of the company consolidated accounts as well as documents are included in the printed version of this on SKF’s website in “Topics related to Annual document on pages 9 –141. Report 2011” marked with *. Responsibilities of the Board of Directors and the Managing Director The Board of Directors and the Managing The Board of Directors is responsible for the The Board of Directors and the Group Director are responsible for the preparation proposal for appropriations of the company’s ­Management are responsible for the ongoing and fair presentation of these annual accounts profit or loss, and the Board of Directors and activities regarding environment, health and and consolidated accounts in accordance with the Managing Director are responsible for safety, social responsibility and sustainable International Financial Reporting Standards, administration under the Companies Act. development and for the preparation and as adopted by the EU, and the Annual Accounts presentation of the environmental and social Act, and for such internal control as the Board performance in accordance with the applicable of Directors and the Managing Director detercriteria. mine is necessary to enable the preparation of annual accounts and consolidated accounts that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. Auditor’s responsibility Our responsibility is to express an opinion Our responsibility is to express an opinion Our responsibility is to, with limited assurance, on these annual accounts and consolidated with reasonable assurance on the proposed express an opinion on the environmental and accounts based on our audit. We conducted appropriations of the company’s profit or loss social performance. We have performed our our audit in accordance with International and on the administration based on our audit. review in accordance with RevR 6 Assurance Standards on Auditing and generally accepWe conducted the audit in accordance with of sustainability reports issued by Far (the ted auditing standards in Sweden. Those generally accepted auditing standards in institute for the accountancy profession in standards require that we comply with ethiSweden. Sweden). A review consists of making inquical requirements and plan and perform the As a basis for our opinion on the Board of ries, primarily of persons responsible for audit to obtain reasonable assurance about Directors’ proposed appropriations of the ­preparing the environmental and social perwhether the annual accounts and consolidated company’s profit or loss, we examined the formance, and applying analytical and other accounts are free from material misstatement. Board of Directors’ reasoned statement and review procedures. A review is substantially 142 Auditors’ report Auditor’s responsibility, cont. An audit involves performing procedures a selection of supporting evidence in order to less in scope than an audit conducted in to obtain audit evidence about the amounts be able to assess whether the proposal is in accordance with International Standards on and disclosures in the annual accounts and accordance with the Companies Act. Auditing and other generally accepted auditconsolidated accounts. The procedures As a basis for our opinion concerning dising standards in Sweden. The procedures selected depend on the auditor’s judgecharge from liability, in addition to our audit performed consequently do not enable us to ment, including the assessment of the risks of the annual accounts and consolidated obtain an assurance that would make us of material misstatement of the annual accounts, we examined significant decisions, aware of all significant matters that might be accounts and consolidated accounts, actions taken and circumstances of the comidentified in an audit. Accordingly, we do not whether due to fraud or error. In making pany in order to determine whether any express an audit opinion. those risk assessments, the auditor considmember of the Board of Directors or the Our assurance does not comprise the ers internal control relevant to the compaManaging Director is liable to the company. assumptions used by SKF or whether or not ny’s preparation and fair presentation of the We also examined whether any member of it is possible for SKF to reach certain future annual accounts and consolidated accounts the Board of Directors or the Managing targets described in the report (e.g. goals, in order to design audit procedures that are Director has, in any other way, acted in conexpectations and ambitions). appropriate in the circumstances, but not travention of the Companies Act, the Annual The criteria on which our review is based on for the purpose of expressing an opinion on Accounts Act or the Articles of Association. are the parts of the “Sustainability Reporting the effectiveness of the company’s internal We believe that the audit evidence we have Guidelines, G3” published by the Global control. An audit also includes evaluating obtained is sufficient and appropriate to proReporting Initiative (GRI), which are applicable the appropriateness of accounting policies vide a basis for our opinion. to the environmental and social performance, used and the reasonableness of accounting as well as the accounting and calculation prinestimates made by the Board of Directors ciples that SKF have developed. We consider and the Managing Director, as well as evalthese criteria suitable for the preparation of uating the overall presentation of the the environmental and social performance. annual accounts and consolidated accounts. Our review has, based on an assessment of We believe that the audit evidence we materiality and risk, among other things have obtained is sufficient and appropriate included a large number of review activities, to provide a basis for our audit opinion. which are briefly expressed on SKF’s website in “Topics related to Annual Report 2011” in the document “Review activities 2011”. Opinions In our opinion, the annual accounts have We recommend to the annual meeting of Based on our review, nothing has come to been prepared in accordance with the Annual shareholders that the profit dealt with in our attention that causes us to believe that Accounts Act and present fairly, in all mateaccordance with the proposal in the statutory the environmental and social performance rial respects, the financial position of the administration report and that the members in SKF Annual Report 2011 and on SKF’s parent company as of 31 December 2011 of the Board of Directors and the Managing website in “Topics related to Annual Report and of its financial performance and its cash Director be discharged from liability for the 2011” marked with * has not, in all material flows for the year then ended in accordance financial year. respects, been prepared in accordance with with the Annual Accounts Act, and the consothe above stated criteria. lidated accounts have been prepared in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act and present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of the group as of 31 December 2011 and of their financial performance and cash flows in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards, as adopted by the EU, and the Annual Accounts Act. The statutory administration report is consistent with the other parts of the annual accounts and consolidated accounts. Our opinion does not include the information listed in the “Review Report on the environmental and social performance”. We therefore recommend that the annual meeting of shareholders adopt the income statement and balance sheet for the parent company and the group. Göteborg, February 29, 2012 KPMG AB Thomas Thiel Authorized Public Accountant Auditors’ report 143 Corporate Governance Report 144 Content 146 Introduction 146 Nomination Committee 147 General information about how the company is managed 147 The Board of Directors 152 President and Chief Executive Officer 152 The auditor of the company 152 Financial reporting 152 Internal control and risk management regarding financial reporting 153 Auditor’s report of the Corporate Governance Report 145 Corporate Governance Report Introduction Code. SKF applies the Code, and this Corporate Governance Report SKF applies the principles of sound corporate governance as an has been prepared in accordance with the Code and the Swedish instrument for increased competitiveness and to promote capital Annual Accounts Act. Furthermore, SKF has provided information on market confidence in SKF. Among other things, this means that the the company’s website in line with the Code requirements. The Annual company maintains an efficient organizational structure with clear General Meeting in 2011 was also held in accordance with the Code areas of responsibility, that the financial reporting is transparent and rules. The auditor of the company has reviewed this Corporate that the company in all respects maintains good corporate citizenship. ­Governance Report. The corporate governance principles applied by SKF are based on Swedish law, in particular the Swedish Companies Act and the Swedish Nomination Committee Annual Accounts Act, and the regulatory system of NASDAQ OMX At the Annual General Meeting of AB SKF held in the spring 2011, it Stockholm AB (Stockholm Stock Exchange). was resolved that the company shall have a Nomination Committee Information under the Annual Accounts Act Chapter 6, § 6, sections formed by one representative of each of the four major shareholders 3-6, are found at the following pages of the Administration Report for with regard to the number of votes held as well as the Chairman of the the Group: Board. When constituting the Nomination Committee, the sharehold• Annual Accounts Act Chapter 6, § 6, section 3; see page 48 ings per the last banking day in August 2011 would determine which • Annual Accounts Act Chapter 6, § 6, section 4; see page 49 shareholders are the largest with regard to the number of votes held. • Annual Accounts Act Chapter 6, § 6, section 5; see page 55 The names of the four shareholder representatives were to be pub• Annual Accounts Act Chapter 6, § 6, section 6; see page 51 lished as soon as they had been elected, however not later than six months before the Annual General Meeting 2012. The Nomination Swedish Code of Corporate Governance Committee shall remain in office until a new Nomination Committee The Swedish Code of Corporate Governance (the “Code”) was originally has been appointed. introduced on 1 July 2005. A revision of the Code came into force on In a press release on 19 September 2011, it was announced that 1 July 2008 and applied until 31 January 2010. In December 2009 the a Nomination Committee consisting of the following representatives Swedish Corporate Governance Board presented yet another revision of the shareholders, besides the Chairman of the Board, had been of the Code. The new revised Code came into force on 1 February appointed in preparation of the Annual General Meeting 2012: 2010. The Code is available at the website of the Swedish Corporate • Claes Dahlbäck, Foundation Asset Management Governance Board, www.corporategovernanceboard.se. • Ramsay Brufer, Alecta It is considered good stock exchange practice for Swedish compa• Marianne Nilsson, Swedbank Robur Funds nies whose shares are traded on a regulated market to apply the • Hans Sterte, Skandia Liv Governance structure Nomination Shareholders through External Committee shareholders’ meeting auditors Renumeration Board of Directors Audit Committee Committee President and CEO Internal Group Management audit Group Divisions staff units 146 Corporate Governance Report The Nomination Committee is to furnish proposals in the following Business Excellence, Group Demand Chain, Group Purchasing and matters to be presented to, and resolved by, the Annual General Group Communications and Government Relations. See pages Meeting in 2012: 154-155 in the Annual Report 2011. • proposal for Chairman of the Annual General Meeting Each division has operational responsibility for its business. Policies • proposal for Board of Directors and instructions are in place to ensure that matters of certain impor• proposal for Chairman of the Board of Directors tance are referred to the President and/or the Board of Directors. • proposal for fee to the Board of Directors • proposal for fee to the Auditor The Board of Directors • proposal for a Nomination Committee ahead of the Annual General Composition and remuneration of the Board Meeting of 2013 The Board shall, in addition to specially appointed members and deputies, according to the Articles of Association of SKF, comprise a miniThe proposals of the Nomination Committee are at the latest to be mum of five and a maximum of ten Board members, with a maximum published in connection with the notice to the Annual General Meeting of five deputies. The Board members are elected each year at the 2012. Annual General Meeting for the period up to the end of the next Annual General Meeting. General information about how the company is managed Ten Board members, including the Chairman, were elected at AB The shareholders’ meeting is the company’s highest decision-making SKF’s Annual General Meeting held in the spring of 2011. In addition, body. The Annual General Meeting of shareholders shall be held within the employees have appointed two Board members and two deputy six months after the end of the financial year. At the Annual General Board members. No Board member, except for the President, is Meeting the shareholders exercise their voting rights for e.g. the comincluded in the management of the company. position of the Board of Directors, adoption of principles of remuneraInformation on the remuneration of the Board members decided tion for Group Management and election of external auditors. SKF has upon by the Annual General Meeting 2011 can be found in the Annual issued A and B shares. An A share entitles the shareholder to one vote Report 2011, Consolidated Financial Statements, Note 25. It should and a B share to one-tenth of a vote. be noted that the Annual General Meeting decided, in accordance with The Board of Directors has a responsibility for the company’s the proposal of the Nomination Committee, that a part of the remuorganization and for the oversight of the management of the companeration to the Board members is to be received as a variable allotny’s affairs. The Chairman of the Board of Directors shall direct the ment corresponding to the value of a certain number of SKF B shares work of the Board and monitor that the Board of Directors fulfils its after the publication of the press release for the financial year 2011. obligations. The Board annually adopts written rules of procedure for The variable allotments will be paid out in April 2012. This is a deviaits internal work and written instructions. For more details on the tion from Rule 9.8 in the Code, which states, inter alia: “The vesting rules of procedures and the written instructions, see below under the period or the period from the commencement of an agreement to the heading “Activities of the Board of Directors”. date for acquisition of shares is to be no less than three years.” By The President of the company, who is also the Chief Executive Instruction 1-2010 the Rules’ scope of application has been extended Officer, is appointed by the Board of Directors and handles the day-toto include also synthetic options and other types of incentive proday management of the company’s business in accordance with the grammes that do not involve the acquisition of shares. The Nomination guidelines and instructions from the Board. The approval of the Board Committee has informed the company that it is of the opinion that is, for example, required in relation to investments and acquisitions the proposal presented for decision by the Annual General Meeting is above certain amounts, as well as for the appointment of certain appropriate particularly considering that the Nomination Committee ­senior managers. The President is supported by Group Management. has told the Board of Directors that it is an appropriate principle that SKF’s operations are organized into three divisions: Industrial each Board member elected by the Annual General Meeting during a ­Division, Service Division and Automotive Division. Further, there are period of three years should invest an amount equal to the annual seven Group staff units: Group Finance and IT, Group Technology board allotment after tax in shares in SKF, and keep these shares as Development, Group Legal and Sustainability, Group People and long as the relevant person is a Board member of SKF. Corporate Governance Report 147 Members of the Board of Directors as of 31 December 2011 Leif Östling Tom Johnstone Chairman, Board member since 2005 Board member since 2003 Born 1945 Born 1955 Education and job experience: Master of Engineering (Chalmers President and Chief Executive Officer of AB SKF. University of Technology, Gothenburg), Bachelor of Economics For more details, see page 152. (School of Business, Economics and Law, University of Gothenburg), and President and CEO of Scania AB since 1994. Other assignments: Board member of ISS A/S, Scania AB and the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise, and Chairman of the Association of Swedish Engineering Industries. Shareholding (own and/or held by related parties): 20,000 SKF B Ulla Litzén Winnie Fok Board member since 1998 Board member since 2004 Born 1956 Born 1956 Education and job experience: Master of Science in Economics Education and job experience: Bachelor of Commerce (University (Stockholm School of Economics), MBA (Massachusetts Institute of New South Wales, Australia) and Senior Advisor of Investor AB of Technology), Managing Director and member of the Management and of Husqvarna AB. Group of Investor AB 1996-2001, and President of W Capital Other assignments: Board member of Volvo Car Corporation, ­Management AB (wholly owned by the Wallenberg Foundations) G4S plc and Kemira Oyj. 2001-2005. Shareholding (own and/or held by related parties): 4,600 SKF A Other assignments: Board member of Atlas Copco AB, Boliden AB, Alfa Laval AB, Husqvarna AB and NCC AB. Shareholding (own and/or held by related parties): 34,000 SKF B 148 Corporate Governance Report Lena Treschow Torell Lars Wedenborn Board member since 2007 Board member since 2008 Born 1946 Born 1958 Education and job experience: Ph.D. (University of Gothenburg). ­ Education and job experience: Master of Science in Economics Professor at University of Uppsala and then at Chalmers University (University of Uppsala). Deputy Managing Director and CFO of of Technology, Gothenburg. Vice President at Chalmers University of Alfred Berg 1991-2000, Executive Vice President and CFO of Technology, Gothenburg, 1995-1998, and Research Director of the Investor AB 2000-2007, and presently CEO of FAM (Foundation Joint Research Centre, European Commission in Brussels 1998-2001. Asset Management) owned by the Wallenberg Foundations. ­P resident of the Royal Swedish Academy of Engineering Sciences (IVA) Other assignments: Chairman of NASDAQ OMX Nordic Ltd., and 2001-2008 and 2009-2011 Chairman of the Academy. board member of NASDAQ OMX Group USA, The Grand Hotel and Other assignments: Vice Chairman of Micronic Laser Systems AB and FAM (Foundation Asset Management). AB ÅF. Board member of SAAB AB, Investor AB and Chalmers University Shareholding (own and/or held by related parties): 10,000 SKF A, of Technology Foundation. Chairman of European Council of Applied 1,500 SKF B ­S ciences, Technologies and Engineering, and Chairman of MISTRA, the Foundation for Strategic Environmental Research. Shareholding (own and/or held by related parties): 0 Peter Grafoner Joe Loughrey Board member since 2008 Board member since 2009 Born 1949 Born 1949 Education and job experience: Doctor’s degree in Engineering Education and job experience: Bachelor of Science degree in (University of Dortmund). Brown Boveri & Cie, several managerial Economics and African Studies (University of Notre Dame). Several and executive positions within AEG, Chairman of the Management managerial and executive positions within Cummins over 35 years, Board of Mannesmann VDO AG 1996-2000 and vice Chairman of the last as vice Chairman of the Cummins Inc. Board 2008-2009, the Management Board of Linde AG during 2000-2001. President and Chief Operating Officer of Cummins Inc. 2005-2008 Other assignments: Board member of Symrise AG and Chairman and President of Cummins Engine Business 1999-2005. of VTI Technologies Oy and President of the Board of Scania Other assignments: Board member of Hillenbrand, Inc., the Vanguard Schweiz AG. Group, Oxfam America, The V Foundation for Cancer Research and Shareholding (own and/or held by related parties): 0 the Lumina Foundation for Education. Chairman of Conexus Indiana, Chairman of the Advisory Council of the College of Arts and Letters and member of the Kellogg Institute of International Studies ­A dvisory Board at the University of Notre Dame. Shareholding (own and/or held by related parties): 7,500 SKF B Corporate Governance Report 149 Employee representatives Jouko Karvinen Lennart Larsson Board member since 2010 Board member since 2004 Born 1957 Born 1948 Education and job experience: Master of Science (Tampere University of Education and job experience: Employed in the SKF Group since 1965. Technology). Employed by ABB Group Limited from 1987 and served in Other assignments: Chairman Unionen, SKF, Gothenburg. ­s everal international positions; head of the Automation Technology Products Shareholding (own and/or held by related parties): 8 SKF B Division, and member of the ABB Executive Committee from 2000-2002. President and CEO of Philips Medical Systems, USA, 2002-2006, and appointed to the Board of Management of Royal Philips Electronics in the Netherlands in 2006. CEO of Stora Enso Oyj since March 2007. Other assignments: Board member of Nokia Oyj, of the Finnish Forest Industries Federation and of Confederation of European Paper Industries (CEPI), member of the Business Co-Operation Council and Co-Chairman of the Forest Industry Task Force, EU-Russia Industrialists’ Round Table (IRT). Shareholding (own and/or held by related parties): 0 Kennet Carlsson Board member since 2008 and deputy board member 2001-2008 Born 1962 Education and job experience: Employed in the SKF Group since 1979. Other assignments: Chairman Metalworkers’ Union, SKF, Gothenburg and SKF World Union Council, Gothenburg. Shareholding (own and/or held by related parties): 100 SKF A Baba Kalyani Board member since 2011 Born 1949 Education and job experience: Master of Science (Massachusetts Institute of Technology, USA) and a Bachelor of Mechanical Engineering (Birla Institute of Technology, India). Managing Director of Bharat Forge Ltd since 1993 and before that several senior positions in Bharat Forge Ltd since 1972. Other assignments: Chairman of the Kalyani Group, Bharat Forge Ltd, and of a number of other companies in the Kalyani Group. Board member of a number of companies in the Kalyani Group and of Hikal Limited, member of the World Economic Forum, and Founder Chairman of Pratham Pune ­Education Foundation. Shareholding (own and/or held by related parties): 0 150 Corporate Governance Report Independence requirements The Board of Directors has been considered to comply with the requirements regarding independence of the Code. The table below shows the Board member’s independence according to the requirements of the Code in relation to (i) the company and (ii) major shareholders. Independence ­in Independence in Name of the Board relation to the relation to the major members elected by the company/senior shareholders of Annual General Meeting management the company Leif Östling • • Ulla Litzén • • Tom Johnstone • Winnie Fok • • Lena Treschow Torell • • Peter Grafoner • • Lars Wedenborn • Jeanette Stenborg Joe Loughrey • • Deputy board member since 2005 Jouko Karvinen • • Born 1967 Education and job experience: Employed in the SKF Group since 1987. Baba Kalyani • • Other assignments: Board member Unionen, SKF, Gothenburg. Shareholding (own and/or held by related parties): 0 Activities of the Board of Directors The Board held eight meetings in 2011. The Board members were present at the Board meetings as follows: Presence/total Name of the Board member number of meetings Leif Östling 8/8 Ulla Litzén 8/8 Tom Johnstone 8/8 Winnie Fok 6/8 Hans-Olov Olsson (resigned in April 2011) 3/8 Lena Treschow Torell 8/8 Peter Grafoner 8/8 Lars Wedenborn 8/8 Joe Loughrey 7/8 Jouko Karvinen 8/8 Baba Kalyani (elected in April 2011) 4/8 Lennart Larsson 8/8 Martin Björkman Kennet Carlsson 8/8 Deputy board member since 2011 Jeanette Stenborg 8/8 Born 1970 Marie Petersson (resigned in June 2011) 3/8 Education and job experience: Employed in the SKF Group since 1989. Martin Björkman (elected in June 2011) 3/8 Other assignments: Board member Metalworkers’ Union, SKF, Gothenburg. Shareholding (own and/or held by related parties): 0 The Board adopts written rules of procedure annually for its internal work. These rules prescribe i.a. • the number of Board meetings and when they are to be held • the items normally included in the Board agenda • the presentation to the Board of reports from the external auditors. Auditor Thomas Thiel, The Board has also issued written instructions on: Authorized Public Accountant • when and how information required for the Board’s assessment of KPMG AB the company’s and the Group’s financial position shall be collected and reported to the Board • the allocation of the tasks between the Board and the President. Issues dealt with by the Board in 2011 include i.a. market outlook, financial reporting, capital structure, acquisitions and divestments of companies, the strategic direction and business plan of the Group and management issues. Corporate Governance Report 151 Remuneration Committee the SKF Group, the latest as Executive Vice President of AB SKF and The Board of AB SKF has in accordance with the principles in the Code President of Automotive Division. established a Remuneration Committee consisting of the Chairman of Other assignments: Board member of Investor AB and Husqvarna AB. the Board, Leif Östling, and the Board members Peter Grafoner, Lars Shareholdings (own and/or held by related parties) in the company: Wedenborn and Jouko Karvinen. 137,325 SKF B The Remuneration Committee prepares matters related to the Material shareholdings or other holdings (own and/or held by related principles of remuneration for Group Management and employment parties) in companies with which the company has important business conditions for the President. The principles of remuneration for Group relationships: 1,000 ABB Ltd, 3,500 Volvo B, 600 Electrolux B, 4,800 Management shall be submitted to the Board, which shall submit a Husqvarna B and 990 Husqvarna A. proposal for such remuneration principles to the Annual General Meeting for approval. The employment conditions for the President The auditor of the company shall be approved by the Board. The task of the auditor is to review, on behalf of the shareholders, the The Remuneration Committee continuously monitors and evaluAnnual Report and the accounting and also to review the Board’s and ates the SKF Group’s remuneration package for Group Management. the President’s management of the company. Not later than two weeks prior to the Annual General Meeting the The Annual General Meeting elects the auditor for a period of four Board submits on the company’s website, in accordance with the years. At AB SKF’s Annual General Meeting in the spring 2009, KPMG ­principles in the Code, a report on the results of the Remuneration was re-elected as auditor for the time up to the closing of the Annual Committee’s evaluation. General Meeting in 2013. KPMG was present at the Annual General The Remuneration Committee held four meetings in 2011. The Meeting. Thomas Thiel is the auditor in charge. Thomas Thiel is also members of the committee were present at the meetings as follows: the auditor in charge at a number of other listed companies, such as Ratos and Swedish Match. Presence/total Name of the Board member number of meetings The auditor shall according to a resolution of the Annual General Meeting be remunerated in accordance with approved invoice. Leif Östling 4/4 SKF has a procedure in place whereby all matters that are intended Hans-Olov Olsson (resigned in April 2011) 2/4 to be handled by the elected auditors are evaluated in relation to the Peter Grafoner 3/4 independence requirements and are approved or, as the case may be, Lars Wedenborn (elected in April 2011) 2/4 rejected, according to rules adopted by the Audit Committee. KPMG Jouko Karvinen 4/4 applies a similar procedure and issues annually, in addition thereto, Audit Committee a written statement to the Board stating that the audit firm is The Board of AB SKF has in accordance with the principles of the ­independent in relation to SKF. Swedish Companies Act and the Code appointed an Audit Committee. KPMG has during the last two years only to a limited extent been The Audit Committee consists of Lars Wedenborn, as Chairman, the involved in matters besides the auditing for 2010-2011. These Chairman of the Board, Leif Östling, and the Board member Ulla Litzén. ­matters have primarily concerned tax advice and attestation services. The tasks of the Audit Committee include i.a. preparations in relation The total fees for KPMG’s services besides auditing in 2011 amount to to the nomination of external auditors, review of the scope of the SEK 5 million, and they amounted to SEK 4 million in 2010. external audit, evaluation of the performance of the external auditors, review and control of the financial reporting, and of the internal control, Financial reporting internal audit and risk management regarding the financial reporting. The Board of Directors is responsible for documenting how the The Audit Committee held five meetings in 2011. The members of quality of the financial reporting is secured and how the company the committee were present at the meetings as follows: communicates with its auditor. The Audit Committee assists the Board of Directors by preparatory Presence/total work to secure the quality of the company’s financial reporting. This Name of the Board member number of meetings is, for example, achieved through the Audit Committee’s review of the Leif Östling 5/5 financial information and the company’s internal financial controls. Ulla Litzén 5/5 The Board of Directors had one meeting with the auditor in 2011 Lars Wedenborn 5/5 and has been provided with the audit and its result. Within the scope of its work, which includes reviewing the extent of the external audit Assessment and evaluating the performance of the external auditors, the Audit The Board members assess the quality of the work of the Board Committee met with the auditors in connection with three Audit through the completion of a questionnaire. The result is then discussed ­Committee meetings. In addition to that, the auditors gave both the at a Board meeting. The Nomination Committee has been provided Audit Committee and the Board of Directors information in writing with the result of the assessment. regarding matters including the planning and implementation of the audit and an assessment of the risk position of the company. President and Chief Executive Officer Tom Johnstone Internal control and risk management Board member of AB SKF’s Board since 2003 regarding financial reporting Born 1955 SKF applies the Internal Control – Integrated Framework launched in Education and job experience: Master of Arts degree (the University of 1992 by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Glasgow), Honorary Doctor’s degree in Business Administration (the Commission (COSO). SKF applies a subset of the CobiT standard for IT University of South Carolina, USA), and Honorary Doctor’s degree in security. The COSO consists of five interrelated components, where a Science (Cranfield University, UK). Several management posts within number of objectives have to be met in each component: 152 Corporate Governance Report financial reporting. Accounting and reporting instructions are updated when necessary and reassessed at least once a year. These instrucMonitoring tions have been made available to all relevant employees together with training programmes and the frequent communication of any Information and Communication changes in accounting and/or reporting requirements. Financial process and control documentation, documentation of Control Activities the COSO components of monitoring, information and communication, financial risk assessment, control environment, as well as test and Risk Assessment review protocols, are stored in a special IT system. This enables the online real-time follow-up and monitoring of SKF’s financial internal control system. Control Environment The COSO internal control framework was implemented in 2005. This work consisted primarily of adapting the process and control descriptions to a common framework, as required by COSO, and putting in place a comprehensive system for management testing of The control environment component is the foundation for the other the controls. Following SKF’s deregistration from the U.S. Securities components. Through its policies, instructions and organizational & Exchange Commission (SEC) in 2007, it was decided that SKF should structure SKF has documented the division of responsibility throughfurther develop the financial internal control system. Based on the out the SKF organization. This is reflected in the fact that policies SOX 404 experience the internal control system was updated and SKF and instructions, where applicable, are developed on the basis of has now established the modified system as a Group standard, also internationally accepted standards and/or best practice. Policies covering those companies that were excluded from the SOX 404 and instructions are reassessed annually. project. SKF has implemented a risk-based annual testing programme SKF is a process-oriented company and includes integrated risk of critical controls. The test programme is reassessed annually and assessment with the business processes such as business planning. from 2009 it also covers companies previously excluded from the Separate functions or cross functional boards monitor all major SOX 404 project. risk areas. SKF has an internal audit function whose main responsibility is to In the area of control activities, SKF has previously documented ensure adherence to the internal control framework by carrying out in detail, all the critical finance processes and controls for the parent annual tests. The internal audit function reports to the Group’s Chief company and all main subsidiary companies, covering more than 70% Financial Officer and regularly submits reports to the Audit Committee of the Group’s net sales and total assets. In 2008 SKF implemented of the Board of Directors. The Board of Directors receives regular these requirements as a Group standard also for smaller subsidiary financial reports and the Group’s financial position and development companies. The documentation standards require an extensive risk are discussed at every meeting. The Audit Committee of the Board of assessment at Group and subsidiary company level in the area of Directors reviews all interim and annual financial reports before they financial reporting. For all material risks that are identified, action is are released to the public. taken to eliminate the risk or reduce it to an acceptable level. The financial process and control documentation is reviewed annually. SKF has information and communication systems and procedures Stockholm, 26 January 2012 in place in order to ensure the completeness and correctness of the The Board of Directors Auditor’s report of the Corporate Governance Report To the annual meeting of the shareholders in AB SKF, corporate identity number 556007-3495 It is the board of directors who is responsible for the Corporate different and substantially less in scope than an audit conducted in Governance Report for the year 2011 on pages 146-153 and that accordance with International Standards on Auditing and generally it has been prepared in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act. accepted auditing standards in Sweden. We have read the Corporate Governance Report and based on that In our opinion, the Corporate Governance Report has been prepared reading and our knowledge of the company and the group we believe and its statutory content is consistent with the annual accounts and that we have a sufficient basis for our opinions. This means that our the consolidated accounts. statutory examination of the Corporate Governance Report is Gothenburg, 29 February 2012 KPMG AB Thomas Thiel Authorized Public Accountant Corporate Governance Report 153 Group Management as of 31 December 2011 Tom Johnstone Tore Bertilsson Henrik Lange Vartan Vartanian Tryggve Sthen Alan Begg Carina Bergfelt Tom Johnstone* Henrik Lange* Tryggve Sthen* President and Chief Executive Officer President, Industrial Division President, Automotive Division Born 1955 Born 1961 Born 1952 Master of Arts degree, the University of ­Glasgow, Bachelor of Science in Economics, School Master of Science (M.S.E.E.) in Technical Physics Honorary Doctor’s degree in ­Business Administration, of Business, Economics and Law, University and Electrotechnology, Institute of Technology at the University of South Carolina, USA and of Gothenburg Linköping University Honorary Doctor’s degree in Science, the Cranfield Employed since 2003 and 1988-2000 Employed since 2003 University, UK Previous positions within SKF: Senior Vice Board member: Green Cargo Employed since 1977 President, Group Business Development and Shareholding in SKF: 1,665 Previous positions within SKF: Executive Vice several other positions As of 1 January 2012 President AB SKF and President, Automotive Board member: Association of Swedish President, SKF Automotive Division and several other positions ­Engineering Industries, GU School of ­E xecutive Board member: Investor AB and Husqvarna AB Education and Partnertech AB Alan Begg Shareholding in SKF: 137,325 Shareholding in SKF: 5,165 Senior Vice President, Group Technology As of 1 January 2012 Development Tore Bertilsson* President, SKF Industrial Market, Strategic Industries Born 1954 Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Masters degree and PhD, University of ­C ambridge Born 1951 Vartan Vartanian* Employed since 2007 Bachelor of Science in Economics, School of President, Service Division Fellow of Royal Academy of Engineering, UK Business, Economics and Law, University of Born 1953 Board member: NV Bekaert SA Gothenburg Bachelor of Applied Sciences-Mechanical Shareholding in SKF: 1,165 Employed since 1989 Engineering, University of Toronto Previous positions within SKF: Group ­Treasury Employed since 1990 Carina Bergfelt Director Previous positions within SKF: Area Director, General Counsel and Senior Vice President, Group Board member: Gamla Livförsäkringsbolaget SEB Europe and several other positions Legal and Sustainability Trygg Liv, Ågrenska AB, AB Ludvig Svensson and Board member: Endorsia.com International AB Born 1960 PRI Pensionsgaranti Shareholding in SKF: 11,881 Master of Law, Lund University Shareholding in SKF: 16,665 Employed since 1990 As of 1 January 2012 Previous positions within SKF: Legal Counsel, President, SKF Industrial Market, Regional Sales Secretary to the Board since 1996 and Service Board member: The Association of Exchange-listed Companies Shareholding in SKF: 2,165 *Member of Group Executive Committee 154 Group Management Eva Hansdotter Poul Jeppesen Magnus Johansson Rakesh Makhija Manfred Neubert Bo-Inge Stensson Ingalill Östman Eva Hansdotter Elektroautomatik i Sverige AB and Haldex AB Ingalill Östman Senior Vice President, Group People and Shareholding in SKF: 416 Senior Vice President, Group Communications and ­Business Excellence Government Relations As of 1 January 2012 Born 1962 Born 1956 Director, Vehicle Service Market Bachelor of Science in Information Systems, Master of Science in Mechanical Engineering, Luleå University of Gothenburg University of Technology Rakesh Makhija Employed since 1987 Employed since 2008 President, Asia Previous positions within SKF: Human Resources Board member: SOIC AB, FKG and International Born 1951 Director, Industrial Division and several other Council of Swedish Industry (NIR) Bachelor of Technology in Chemical positions Shareholding in SKF: 3,165 Engineering, Indian Institute of Technology, Member of SNS Board of Trustees New Delhi, India Shareholding in SKF: 2,165 Employed since 2002 Previous positions within SKF: Managing Director, Poul Jeppesen SKF India Ltd. President, North America Board member: Wafangdian Bearing Co, Ltd Born 1953 Shareholding in SKF: 423 Engineering, Aalborg Technical College and Business Administration, Silkeborg Business School Manfred Neubert Employed since 1982 President, SKF GmbH Board Member: NAM (National American Manu­ Born 1953 facturers), MAPI (Manufacturing ­A lliances), ABMA, Master of Economics, Business Administration American Bearing ­Manufacturers Association, Employed since 2004 Family Answers (Charity Organization) Advisory Board member: WEHACO Hannover Previous positions within SKF: President, SKF Council member: VDA, VDMA, VBM/BAYME As of 1 January 2012 Actuation System and several other positions (Employers association German Metal Industry) Lars Wilsby Shareholding in SKF: 416 Shareholding in SKF: 1,965 Senior Vice ­P resident, Group Business ­Transformation Magnus Johansson Bo-Inge Stensson Born 1962 Senior Vice President, Group Demand Chain Senior Vice President, Group Purchasing Master of Science Industrial Engineering and Born 1955 Born 1961 Management, Chalmers University of ­Technology, Education: Bachelor of Science in Behaviourism, Master of Science Industrial and Mechanical Gothenburg; MBA, INSEAD, Fontainebleau, France University of Gothenburg ­Engineering, Institute of Technology at Employed since 2005 Employed since 2004 and 1981-2002 Linköping University Previous positions within SKF: Director, Vehicle Previous positions within SKF: President, SKF Employed since 2006 Service Market and Director, Business Development China Co Ltd. and several other ­positions Previous positions within SKF: Senior Vice Automotive Division Board member: West Sweden Chamber of Commerce, President, Group Demand Chain Shareholding in SKF: 1,600 Shareholding in SKF: 1,765 Group Management 155 Glossary Accident rate Elastomer setting body composed of representatives The accident rate for the Group is calculated Synthetic rubber. from various national standards organizausing the formula: tions. The organization promulgates worldAccident rate = R x 200,000/H, where Employee retention rate wide proprietary industrial and commercial R= number of recordable accidents 1 (R)/(registered number of employees as ­s tandards. H = total hours worked of 31 Dec newly hired during the year + R) This formula is provided by the US Occupational R = number of employees that left during Landfill Safety and Health Administration (OSHA). the year. Designated area for disposal of waste. Ball bearings versus roller bearings Energy intensity Large size bearings The main difference in the performance of The total energy used in all forms in the manu­ The range includes standard bearings as well these two bearing types is that ball bearings facturing facilities divided by an accounting as bearings tailored for specific applications. have lower friction than roller bearings, while measure of manufacturing output. Bearings with an outside diameter of more roller bearings have a higher load-carrying than 420 mm are considered as large. The capacity. Friction bearings are available both in metric and inch A force that counteracts movement between dimensions. BeyondZero contact surfaces. Friction is by nature complex BeyondZero is a strategy launched in 2005, and is calculated by means of an empirical Leadership in Energy & Environmental defining SKF’s commitment to realizing the factor. Friction consumes energy and generates Design (LEED) vision of achieving a net positive contribution heat in rotating machinery. An internationally recognized green building to the environment. This commitment is certification system, providing third-party leading SKF in developing and providing new Gigawatt hour (GWh) verification that a building or community was environmentally-sound, energy-efficient One million kilowatt hours (kWh). Measure designed and built using strategies intended products and services, as well as introducing of electrical energy quantity. to improve performance in metrics such as effective energy conservation programmes energy savings, water efficiency, CO2 emissions in its operations. GHG protocol reduction, improved indoor environmental The GHG Protocol Corporate Standard proquality, and stewardship of resources and By-wire technology vides standards and guidance for companies sensitivity to their impacts. In by-wire systems, the direct mechanical and other organizations preparing a GHG control is replaced by electronic control. (greenhouse gas) emissions inventory. Life cycle analysis Through the use of standardized approaches Systematic analysis of all environmental Carbon dioxide and principles, it provides a clear and transimpacts of a product during its entire life A common gas with the chemical formula parent reporting mechanism. cycle, i.e. from raw material to end-of-life CO2. This gas is generated in various product recovery or disposal. pro­cesses in nature and in combustion of Hub bearing unit most fuels. CO2 contributes to the global Easy-to-mount, compact bearing unit for Linear products greenhouse effect. passenger car wheels. It is based on a doubleA common name for components, units and row angular contact ball bearing and has systems for linear movement. They include Carbon intensity integrated seals. It can be equipped with a linear bearings, profile rail guides, linear ball The amount of CO2 released during the sensor suitable for anti-lock braking aystems bearing slides and so on. ­conversion of the total energy used. (ABS), traction control and so on. Lubricant Condition monitoring Integrated Maintenance Solution (IMS) Grease, oil or other substance to facilitate the By regularly measuring vibration levels in An IMS contract is an expanded troublemotion of surfaces relative to each other, e.g bearings and machines, maintenance factors free operation programme which consists in a bearing. impacting on bearing service life and machine of services such as training, installation operation can be controlled. Condition moni­ supervision, root cause failure analysis OHSAS 18001 toring instrumentation and software enable and the condition monitoring of rotating Occupational Health and Safety Assessment the early detection of bearing and machinery machinery. Series management system targets at problems, making it possible for technicians ­controlling occupational health and safety to take the necessary steps in order to address ISO risks as well as to improve performance in a problem before it results in breakdowns. The International Organization for Standardthe area. It is compatible with ISO 14001 ization (ISO) is an international standard(Environmental Management System). 156 Glossary Six Sigma waste reducing method­ologies. The Sigma on variation and quality – SKF Six Sigma is a found­ations for SKF Six Sigma improvethe result is better quality faster. continuous improvement ments are that they are fact based and programme within SKF sustainable and contribute to the Six Sigma for Growth that targets waste and business objectives. A customer focused approach and defects in all business targets improvements in the growth processes. SKF Six Sigma Design for Six Sigma (DfSS) areas such as marketing, sales and projects are run by extensively trained A methodology which focuses on developing distribution. Black Belts and Green Belts, where Black new products and services to the market Belts are required to run two projects a with optimal ­performance levels. Transactional Six Sigma year and Green Belts one project a year. Focuses on people processes such as Within the SKF Six Sigma programme Lean Six Sigma service, sales and human resources. are a number of tools and methodologies A methodology which combines tools from ranging from ­t raditional DMAIC and both Lean Manufacturing and Six Sigma. Design for Six Sigma to Lean and other Lean focuses on speed and waste, Six Original equipment manufacturer (OEM) SKF Care federal law. Remediation funding is provided by Custo­mers who buy bearings to use in their Sustainability is one of SKF’s five business those who contributed to the contamination. own products, such as manufacturers of cars, drivers, alongside Profitability, Quality, household appliances, gearboxes and so on. ­Innovation and Speed. SKF’s approach to Super-precision bearings sustaining financial and operational excelSKF’s comprehensive assortment of superREACH lence centres on the SKF Care concept, which precision bearings is designed for machine The REACH Regulation came into force on consists of Business Care, Environmental tool spindles and other applications that 1 June 2007, intended for the Registration, Care, Employee Care, and Community Care. require a high level of running accuracy at Evaluation, Authorization and Restriction of high to extremely high speeds. Each bearing Chemical substances. Information about the SKF Internal Control Standard (SICS) type incorporates unique features to make it chemical substances used or imported shall A financial internal control framework, based suitable for specific operating conditions. be registered in a central database run by on the Committee of Sponsoring Organizathe European Chemical Agency (ECHA). tions of the Treadway Commission (COSO), Transaction effects developed by SKF for ensuring that a basic, Companies involved in international trade Remediation consistent system of financial internal control risk that currency exchange rates may Clean-up and restoration of a contaminated site. is maintained throughout the SKF Group. change and thereby effect the value of the transactional currency flows. Residual product SKF Solution Factory Other product than the main product from a The SKF Solution Factory combine the full Translation effects production process. It may or may not have a range of SKF’s expertise within technology The risk that a company’s equities, assets, net value. Residual products without a positive platforms with workshop facilities, providing liabilities or income will change as a result of net value are wastes. customized service and solutions to customthe translation of foreign currency into SEK. ers. This brings many SKF bearing services Self-aligning ball bearing and integrated value-adding solutions close Tribology This bearing type, invented in 1907 by SKF’s to the customers – such as remanufacturing Tribology is the science and technology of founder Sven Wingquist, solved one of the and customization, application engineering, interacting surfaces in relative motion. It largest industrial problems of the time – spindle repair, lubrication applications, includes the study and application of the the continual production stoppages caused mechanical services including mounting, principles of friction, lubrication and wear. by bearing failure. As the alignment of the alignment and balancing, remote monitoring shafts was not accurate enough for the rigid centre and training. Working Climate Analysis (WCA) ball bearings that were normally used, the An annual survey distributed to all employees bearings failed due to misalignment. The Superfund site with the aim of obtaining their feedback on double-row, self-aligning ball bearings Old landfill or plant site in the United States SKF’s performance in relation to the company’s accommodated the misalignment without with soil or groundwater contamination, ­subject values and key focus areas. reducing service life, thereby solving the to a remediation programme according to a problem. Glossary 157 SKF Business Excellence SKF Business Excellence was launched from the manufacturing area into other in 2010. It is about delivering value to processes and operations within the SKF customers in the most effective and Group. Business Excellence is more than efficient way possible, through utilizing just about results – it actively challenges the knowledge of employees, partners the organization to consider whether it is and the company’s technology. Business achieving the right results in the best way Excellence builds on many of the initia­tives possible. SKF Manufacturing Excellence started by the SKF Group over a number focuses on reducing waste and eliminating of years, the most recent was SKF non-value adding activities. The heart of ­Manufacturing Excellence. With Business the system is the people in the production Excellence SKF is expanding the experience process. Definitions Key figures The majority of the subsidiaries within the Group report the results of 7. Return on equity their operations and financial position twelve times a year. Most of the Profit/loss after taxes as a percentage of twelve months rolling key figures presented in the Annual Report have been calculated using average of equity. average values based on these reports. Consequently, the calculation of these key figures using the year-end values presented may give 8. Operating margin slightly different results. Operating profit/loss, as a percentage of net sales. 1. Portion of risk-bearing capital 9. Turnover of total assets Equity and provisions for deferred taxes, as a percentage of total Net sales in relation to twelve months rolling average of total assets. assets at year end. 10. Basic earnings/loss per share in SEK 2. Equity/assets ratio Profit/loss after taxes less non-controlling interests divided by the Equity as a percentage of total assets at year-end. ordinary number of shares. 3. Gearing 11. Yield Loans plus net provisions for post-employment benefits, as a Dividend as a percentage of share price at year end. percentage of the sum of loans, net provisions for post-employment benefits and equity, all at year-end. 12. P/E ratio Share price at year end divided by basic earnings per share. 4. Net debt/equity Total short-term financial assets excluding derivatives minus loans 13. Registered number of employees and provisions for post-employment benefits, as a percentage of Total number of employees included in SKF’s payroll at the equity, all at year-end. year-end. 5. Return on total assets 14. Average number of employees Operating profit/loss plus interest income, as a percentage of twelve Total number of working hours of all employees, divided by months rolling average of total assets. the normal total working time over the year. 6. Return on capital employed 15. Equity per share Operating profit/loss plus interest income, as a percentage of twelve Equity excluding non-controlling interests divided by the ordinary months rolling average of total assets less the average of non-interest number of shares. ­bearing liabilities. 158 Glossary • Definitions SKF’s platforms The platform and segment approach is SKF-specific and based on combining strong technology focus from the ­platforms and strong customer focus from the segments. SKF has defined about 40 customer segments in which it operates. Examples of these segments include the cars and light trucks, wind power, r­ ailway, machine tool, medical, food and beverage, and the pulp and paper i­ndustries. Based on a strong understanding of current and future customer needs and challenges, SKF utilizes the capabilities of all or some of its platforms to develop tailor-made offers for each of its customer segments. In this way, SKF can offer its customers specific products and solutions with improved performance, reduced energy use and reduced total cost, while giving SKF greater added value and better price quality. Bearings and units Lubrication systems The broad range of bearing types produced globally by SKF offers SKF offers products, solutions and vast support within areas such customers an assortment of high-quality, high-performance, low­as industrial lubricants, lubrication consultancy, lubricator equipment, friction, standard and customized solutions to critical and standard lubrication assessment, lubricant analysis, lubricant recommendations applications. Units are product combinations integrated into and automatic lubrication systems. solutions with unique performance, used in specific applications requiring a compact design, combined performance and light weight. Mechatronics The mechatronics platform enhances customer value by combining Seals SKF’s strong mechanical experience and electronic technology. The SKF provides innovative solutions in elastomers or engineered ­platform covers systems for precision multi-axis positioning, intelligent plastics to meet the needs of various industries for static, rotating, monitoring and by-wire applications, as well as components such as reciprocating and bearing seals. ball and roller screws, actuators, rail guides and sensor modules. A number of mechanical and electronic products are combined into Services modules and sub-systems addressing unique needs where SKF has The service platform delivers value by addressing the entire life cycle specialist industrial-specific expertise. of a particular asset. The design phase is covered by different aspects of engineering consultancy and R&D services. The operation stage, which is the main part of the asset’s life cycle, is covered by a variety of solutions including services and service-related products focusing on maintenance strategy, predictive maintenance, maintenance and logistic services. The last part of the life cycle is covered by services and service-related ­products focusing on upgrades, refurbishment, bearing dismounting and mounting, alignment, balancing and ­post-maintenance testing. A wide range of training is available for customers, onand off-site, around the globe. SKF’s platforms 159 SKF solutions for continuous casters – an example of “The Power of Knowledge Engineering” During operation, the continuous casting lines used for making steel slabs are under constant strain. Extreme temperatures, high loads and low speeds can cause frequent and costly shutdowns for maintenance and increase grease consumption. SKF provides solutions from all its five technology platforms to help caster customers ­reduce costs and their environmental impact. Telescopic electromechanical actuators for mould adjustment SKF ConRo roll line units SKF electromechanical actuators are a flexible and reliable actuator SKF ConRo are robust, self-contained, modular roll line units solution to adjust the mould to the desired slab width. The actuator's that include bearings, seals, housings, grease and roll bodies. telescopic design enables a longer stroke for the same retracted SKF ConRo features a number of innovative components that improve length, so that a wider product range can be manufactured using the the service life and reliability of the casting line. Most importantly, existing casting line. The robust and corrosion-free design delivers the relubrication-free sealed bearings require no maintenance while high reliability and longer service life. Due to the high efficiency, users the roll is in operation. A patented sealing system protects bearings of SKF electromechanical actuators also experience reduced energy from process water and contaminants, thus providing longer bearing use for mould adjustments as well as reduced maintenance costs. service life and reduced costs. SKF ConRo can reduce operating costs by up to 50% per roll line. SKF offers three variants of SKF ConRo – Top, Compact and Low – for the different slab caster segments. SKF DryLube Bearings and SKF SNL housings for roll out tables By filling the empty space inside a bearing with an engineered graphite mixture, SKF provides an efficient alternative to the use of grease in extremely hot steelmaking environments. Almost any SKF bearing type can be supplied as an SKF DryLube Bearing, providing an extremely high temperature limit of 350 °C. SKF DryLube Bearings do not require relubrication, eliminating the cost and environmental consequences of conventional greasing programmes. In addition to saving costs, SKF DryLube Bearings improve worker safety by ­reducing the risk of fires and slippery floors caused by spilt grease. SKF SNL housings have a bore diameter and roundness designed and manufactured to precisely match those of the bearing. By carrying the bearing loads, SKF SNL housings contribute to excellent bearing performance and extend bearing service life. SKF Caster Analyst System SKF ConRo Compact SKF DryLube Bearings and SNL Housings 160 SKF’s platforms SKF Caster Analyst System for roll lines SKF sealed self-aligning bearing system and automatic This system, consisting of a specialized on-line monitoring unit lubrication system for roll lines for advanced and reliable data collection, enables operators to The SKF sealed, self-aligning bearing system for continuous casters ­measure critical temperature and load data during production. consists of a sealed spherical roller bearing and a sealed CARB toroidal The SKF Caster Analyst System simplifies troubleshooting leading roller bearing, both manufactured to the SKF Explorer performance class. to increased output and enhanced product quality. The SKF Caster This combination offers a very high load-carrying capacity resulting in Analyst System contributes to optimizing equipment reliability, improved reliability and increased bearing system service life. This ­helping mills avoid unplanned stops and catastrophic failures by ­pre-lubricated and sealed SKF self-aligning ­bearing system significantly ­identifying potential problems such as uneven load distribution reduces grease consumption and costs. or inadequate cooling practices. The SKF Maxilube pumping centre for the SKF DuoFlex lubrication ­system provides the external seals with the appropriate quantity of SKF LGHB 2 high temperature bearing grease that forms an additional barrier against contamination. Using this combination of SKF solutions, compared to a system with open bearings, a typical two-strand slab SKF sealed self-aligning bearing system ­c aster can save more than 20 tonnes of grease per year. Telescopic actuators SKF ConRo Top SKF ConRo Low SKF’s platforms 161 Awards SKF’s products, solutions and services are highly esteemed. The following is a list of some of the awards received by the Group in 2011: 2011 Supplier Excellence Award, NOV National Oilwell Varco, USA Achievement Award, Honda Motorcycle & Scooter India Pvt. Ltd., India Acoplamentos (the best-known company for couplings), Rede Brasileira de Manutenção, Brazil Asian Force Award, Asia Fortune Forum, China Award for Support and Sponsorship, ELT International, South Africa Best Employer 2011, Delegation of the European Union in Ukraine, Ukraine Best Environmental Idea 2011, Deutschen Instituts für Ideenund Innovationsmanagement GmbH Frankfurt, Germany Best Performance in warranty improvement, Maruti Suzuki India Ltd., Índia Best Place to Work, Você SA Exame Magazine, Brazil Best Service Provider, The Belgian Shippers’ Council Organization of Traffic Management, Belgium SKF was awarded Marca Brazil – Best Bearing Best Supplier Award, Lucas TVS Ltd., India by the O Mecanico Magazine in Brazil. Consultoria em Gestão de Manutenção (the best-known company for Asset management services), Rede Brasileira de Manutenção, Brazil CSR Excellence Award, Shanghai Association of Enterprises with Serviços de Análise de Vibração (the best-known company for Foreign Investment, China vibration analysis), Rede Brasileira de Manutenção, Brazil Equipamentos de Análise de Vibração (the best-known company Serviço de Lubrificação (the best-known company for lubrication for Analysis tools), Rede Brasileira de Manutenção,Brazil services), Rede Brasileira de Manutenção, Brazil Excellence Award for exceptional contribution, Hindalco, India Setor de Manutenção, Reparo e Operação (the best-known Excellence in Service Division-Customer Service Operations, company), Rede Brasileira de Manutenção, Brazil Ford, South Africa Supplier Award 2011 – Best support Marketing Program, Astra Excellence in Quality Award, NAPA, USA Honda Motor-Parts Centre, Indonesia Excellent Contribution Award, Yeong Chin Machinery Industries Co., Supplier Award, Brammer, UK Ltd., Taiwan Supplier Award, Hung Sen propeller Co., Ltd, Taiwan Excellence prize, Economic Observer, China Supplier Award 2011, VW, South America Fabricante de Rolamentos (the best-known company for Industrial Supplier of the month – September 2011, Astra Honda bearings), Rede Brasileira de Manutenção, Brazil Motor-Parts Centre, Indonesia Good Cost Performance 2010/2011, Astra Daihatsu Motor, Supplier of the Year 2011, Autoasi-chain, Finland Indonesia Supplier of the Year 2010, GM, South Korea Hampton Clean Business of the Year, Hampton Clean City Supplier of the Year 2010, Groupauto International, Europe Commission (HCCC), USA Supplier of the Year (Silver) Award for overall excellence, IMPOvation Award 2011, IMPO, USA Maruti Suzuki India Ltd., India Leading Global Supplier, ARC Advisory Group, Global The European Medal, Business Centre Club, Poland Pesquisa Nacional de Preferência de Marca de Produtos Industriais, The Great Supporter to the Education for Future Engineers, Revista NEI, Brazil National Taiwan University of Technology & Science, Taiwan Marca Brasil-Best Bearing, O Mecanico Magazine, Brazil Top Absolute Marca Brasil, Trio International Distinction, Brazil Prêmio Fiat Qualitas, Fiat, Brazil Visão Agro 2011 destaque – Rolamentos Industriais (the best Rolta Corporate Awards, Dun & Bradstreet, India industrial bearing supplier), Visão Agro, Brazil 162 Awards SKF’s financial website SKF’s financial website – www.skf.com/investors – contains detailed and updated financial information, as well as information about SKF’s objectives and strategies, corporate governance, Group-related news, etc. The website also has a subscription service for receiving press releases and reports by email. A selection of headlines and functions on the website is shown below. About SKF Targets and performance Strategy Financial risk management Quarterly reporting Sustainability Sensitivity analysis Quarterly information Acquisition and divestment Production sites Reports Financial reports Annual reports since 1907 Financial data Tables Graphs Current Statistics share price SKF’s shares Largest shareholder Share price Total return Financial Dividend performance and targets Corporate Governance Group News Annual General Meeting Board of directors Board committees Group management Frequently visited pages SKF’s financial website 163 SKF’s global campaign 2011 This campaign has been used globally to demonstrate the real Power of Knowledge Engineering, through SKF’s engineers, as they show how they help create new solutions for customer problems. Solutions that improve efficiency, productivity and reduce environmental impact. Reduce CO2 emissions with exact stops and starts The automotive industry is constantly finding ways of reducing CO2 emissions, and developing more energyefficient vehicles. One is the stop-start functionality, where the engine automatically stops at traffic lights, queues or stop signs and is instantly re-started at green light. SKF engineer Susanne Blokland and her SKF team have made a key contribution to this technology; the SKF Rotor Positioning Bearing. A magnetic field from this bearing provides the engine control system with the rotor’s exact angular position, thus enabling The automotive industry is constantly finding ways of reducing CO2 emissions, and developing more energy the engine to be conveniently re-started. efficient vehicles. One is the stop-start functionality, where the engine automatically stops at traffic lights, The bottom line is significantly reduced CO2 queues or stop signs and is instantly re-started at emissions. Up to 30 percent in heavy city green light. SKF engineer Susanne Blokland and her SKF team traffic. And fuel consumption may be cut have made a key contribution to this technology; the SKF Rotor Positioning Bearing. A magnetic field from proportionally. this bearing provides the engine control system with the It’s another great example of knowledge rotor’s exact angular position, thus enabling the engine to be conveniently re-started. The bottom line is significantly engineering at work. Find out more at reduced CO2 emissions. Up to 30 percent in heavy city traffic. And fuel consumption may be cut proportionally. www.skf.com/poke It’s another great example of knowledge engineering at work. Find out more at www.skf.com/poke The Power of Knowledge Engineering The Power of Knowledge Engineering Stop-start functionality SKF Rotor Positioning Susanne Blokland, SKF Bearing 164 SKF’s global campaign 2011 Reduce downtime with Produce smart phones faster remanufactured bearings with high speed bearings In high speed rail, there is no room for quick fixes. On the contrary. The pressure on railways to work more efficiently, safely and productively while reducing costs is higher than ever. SKF service manager Stewart McLellan and SKF remanufacturing teams around the world offer a solution. They can have wheelset bearings correctly disassembled, washed, inspected, measured, greased and reassembled with new components. The bearings can also be upgraded to a higher standard. After this, the bearings are quickly returned to the customer, and the vehicle is right back on track. The bottom line? Minimized downtime, optimized assets, and reduced environmental impact. It’s another great example of knowledge engineering at work. Find out more at www.skf.com/poke The Power of Knowledge Engineering Ever wonder how producers of extremely advanced consumer electronics, like smart phones, manage to keep launching new generations of these products at such a ferocious tempo with consistently high quality? SKF product manager Satyen Bohidar and SKF’s sales team have part of the answer – SKF-SNFA high-speed super precision bearings. They allow the machine tools used for manufacturing key components of these products to run flawlessly and precisely at up to 60.000 rpm 365 days a year. The result? Smart products are brought to the Wheelset maintenance SKF Remanufacturing Stewart McLellan market even faster. It’s another great example of knowledge engineering at work. Find out more at www.skf.com/poke The Power of Knowledge Engineering Milling spindle running SKF-SNFA high-speed Satyen Bohidar, at 40.000 rpm bearings SKF Product Manager Visit us at www.skf.com In high speed rail, there is no room for quick fixes. On the contrary. The Ever wonder how producers of extremely advanced consumer electr­o­n­ics, ­pressure on railways to work more efficiently, safely and productively like smart phones, manage to keep launching new generations of these while reducing costs is higher than ever. ­products at such a ferocious tempo with ­consistently high quality? SKF service manager Stewart McLellan and SKF remanufacturing SKF product manager Satyen Bohidar and SKF’s sales team have part teams around the world offer a solution. They can have wheelset of the answer – SKF-SNFA high-speed super precision bearings. They bearings correctly disassembled, washed, inspected, measured, allow the machine tools used for manufacturing key components of greased and reassembled with new components. The bearings can these products to run flawlessly and precisely at up to 60,000 rpm also be upgraded to a higher standard. After this, the bearings are 365 days a year. quickly returned to the customer, and the vehicle is right back on track. The result? Smart products are brought to the market even faster. The bottom line? Minimized downtime, optimized assets, and reduced ­environmental impact. Cut CO2 by cutting Secure your operations weight by a third with proactive maintenance Imagine the conditions in the North Sea. They take their toll on all types of equipment. Bearings are no exception. At one of the major production platforms, failing motor In today’s automotive industry, every gram of CO2 emission bearings used to cause gas compressors to break down counts. That’s why reducing vehicle weight is so important. as often as every third month. Each time, that meant But that’s easier said than done for drive line components, 25% lost production for several days. where demands on performance and durability are high. Jim Marnoch and his team provided SKF ProActive SKF product development engineer Paolo Re and his Reliability Maintenance services. After thorough analysis SKF team have a solution; the SKF Low Weight Hub of the vibration signatures and the damaged bearings, Bearing Unit. By minimizing the use of steel and replacing they found a long term solution. SKF NoWear bearings it with light alloy, weight is cut by almost one third without along with a new sealing arrangement made all the compromising performance or bearing life. This innovative difference, allowing the compressors to run 6 times hub bearing unit suits premium cars equally well as light longer than before. trucks and electric vehicles. The bottom line is reduced At today’s high oil prices, for every breakdown that emissions and fuel consumption. This solution may also can be avoided, the platform operator saves tens of help automotive manufacturers avoid CO2 fees. million dollars. On top of that, these improvements also It’s another great example of knowledge engineering reduce health, safety and environmental risks. It’s at work. Find out more at www.skf.com/poke another great example of knowledge engineering at work. Find out more at www.skf.com/poke The Power of Knowledge Engineering The Power of Knowledge Engineering Gas Export Compressor SKF ProActive Reliability Jim Marnoch, SKF Wheel end solution SKF Low Weight Hub Paolo Re, SKF Maintenance Bearing Unit ® NOWEAR is a registered trademark of the SKF Group. In today’s automotive industry, every gram of CO2 emission counts. Imagine the conditions in the North Sea. They take their toll on all types That’s why reducing vehicle weight is so important. But that’s easier of equipment. Bearings are no exception. At one of the major production said than done for drive line components, where demands on per­form­ platforms, failing motor bearings used to cause gas compressors to ance and durability are high. break down as often as every third month. Each time, that meant 25% SKF product development engineer Paolo Re and his SKF team have lost ­production for several days. a ­solution; the SKF Low Weight Hub Bearing Unit. By minimizing the use Jim Marnoch and his team provided SKF ProActive Reliability Mainten­ of steel and replacing it with light alloy, weight is cut by almost one third ance services. After thorough analysis of the vibration signatures and without compromising performance or bearing life. This innovative hub the damaged bearings, they found a long term solution. SKF NoWear bearing unit suits premium cars equally well as light trucks and electric bearings along with a new sealing arrangement made all the difference, vehicles. The bottom line is reduced emissions and fuel con­sump­t ion. allowing the compressors to run 6 times longer than before. This solution may also help automotive manufacturers avoid CO2 fees. At today’s high oil prices, for every breakdown that can be avoided, the platform operator saves tens of million dollars. On top of that, these ­improvements also reduce health, safety and environmental risks. SKF’s global campaign 2011 165 Seven-year review of the SKF Group SEKm unless otherwise stated 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 2005 Income statements Net sales 66,216 61,029 56,227 63,361 58,559 53,101 49,285 Operating expenses -56,624 -52,438 -52,939 -55,618 -51,036 -47,110 -44,215 Other operating income and expenses, net 36 -139 -74 -34 19 -22 85 Profit (+)/loss (-) from jointly controlled and associated companies -16 0 -11 1 -3 738 172 Operating profit 9,612 8,452 3,203 7,710 7,539 6,707 5,327 Financial income and expense, net -680 -903 -906 -842 -401 -320 -74 Profit before taxes 8,932 7,549 2,297 6,868 7,138 6,387 5,253 Taxes -2,708 -2,253 -592 -2,127 -2,371 -1,955 -1,646 Net profit 6,224 5,296 1,705 4,741 4,767 4,432 3,607 Attributable to: Owners of AB SKF 6,051 5,138 1,642 4,616 4,595 4,317 3,521 Non-controlling interests 173 158 63 125 172 115 86 Balance sheets Intangible assets 10,157 10,1941) 4,014 4,654 3,516 2,586 1,583 Deferred tax assets 1,299 1,1511) 1,665 1,342 886 745 738 Property, plant and equipment 13,076 12,922 13,933 14,556 11,960 11,388 11,119 Non-current financial and other assets 1,494 1,411 1,502 1,366 2,643 2,032 2,531 Inventories 14,191 12,879 11,771 15,204 11,563 9,939 9,931 Current financial assets 16,050 13,005 14,540 15,668 14,169 17,848 13,020 Other current assets 3,107 2,839 3,590 3,310 2,365 2,100 1,571 Total assets 59,374 54,4011) 51,015 56,100 47,102 46,638 40,493 Equity 22,455 19,894 18,280 19,689 19,009 19,706 17,961 Provisions for post employment benefits 8,634 7,093 7,020 6,356 4,600 5,145 5,562 Deferred tax provisions 938 1,309 1) 754 1,210 1,652 1,130 862 Other provisions 1,836 2,162 2,849 2,339 2,067 1,919 2,210 Financial liabilities 18,311 16,651 14,994 18,549 13,015 12,754 8,215 Other liabilities 7,200 7,292 7,118 7,957 6,759 5,984 5,683 Total equity and liabilities 59,374 54,4011) 51,015 56,100 47,102 46,638 40,493 Key figures 2) (in percentages unless otherwise stated) Return on total assets 17.2 16.9 1) 6.5 16.1 17.1 16.1 14.8 Return on capital employed 23.6 24.0 9.1 24.0 24.9 23.0 21.9 Return on equity 29.7 28.4 9.0 26.3 24.6 23.5 20.6 Operating margin 14.5 13.8 5.7 12.2 12.9 12.6 10.8 Turnover of total assets, times 1.16 1.19 1) 1.04 1.25 1.25 1.22 1.31 Portion of risk-bearing capital 39.4 39.0 1) 37.3 37.3 44.0 44.7 46.5 Gearing 48.9 48.6 49.3 50.1 36.9 38.6 34.5 Equity/assets 37.8 36.61) 35.8 35.1 40.5 42.3 44.4 Investments and employees Additions to property, plant and equipment 1,839 1,651 1,975 2,531 1,907 1,933 1,623 Research and development expenses 1,481 1,184 1,217 1,175 900 875 837 Patents – number of first filings 325 251 218 179 186 175 176 Average number of employees 42,886 40,206 38,530 43,201 41,645 39,780 37,454 Number of employees registered at 31 December 46,039 44,742 41,172 44,799 42,888 41,090 38,748 1) Restated for finalized Lincoln PPA, see Note 1. 2) See page 158 for definitions of key figures. 166 Seven-year review of the SKF Group Three-year review of the SKF divisions/segments1) SEKm unless otherwise stated 2011 2010 2009 Industrial Division Net sales 23,924 20,050 19,951 Sales incl. intra-Group sales 34,458 29,836 28,805 Operating profit 4,421 3,558 1,640 Operating margin2) 12.8% 11.9% 5.7% Assets and liabilities, net 23,605 23,2173) 15,986 Registered number of employees 20,264 20,018 17,906 Service Division Net sales 23,024 21,403 19,182 Sales incl. intra-Group sales 23,387 21,746 19,531 Operating profit 3,656 2,976 2,511 Operating margin2) 15.6% 13.7% 12.9% Assets and liabilities, net 5,632 5,017 4,724 Registered number of employees 6,093 5,741 5,672 Automotive Division Net sales 17,771 18,231 16,051 Sales incl. intra-Group sales 21,453 21,995 19,107 Operating profit 1,362 1,855 -808 Operating margin2) 6.3% 8.4% -4.2% Assets and liabilities, net 8,513 8,036 8,081 Registered number of employees 14,451 14,474 13,480 1) Previously published amounts have been restated to conform to the current Group structure in 2011. The structural changes include business units being moved between the divisions and between other operations/Group activities and divisions. 2) Operating margin is calculated on sales including intra-Group sales. 3) Restated for finalized Lincoln PPA, see Note 1. Per-share data1) Swedish kronor/share unless otherwise stated 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 2005 Earnings per share 13.29 11.28 3.61 10.14 10.09 9.48 7.73 Dividend per A and B share 5.502) 5.00 3.50 3.50 5.00 4.50 4.00 Total dividends, SEKm 2,5042) 2,277 1,594 1,594 2,277 2,049 1,821 1,366 Redemption per share – – – – 5.00 10.00 – Total redemption, SEKm – – – 2,277 4,554 – 2,846 Purchase price of B shares at year-end on the NASDAQ OMX Stockholm 145.60 191.60 123.60 77.25 104.79 113.22 99.80 Equity per share 47 42 38 41 40 42 38 Yield in percent (B) 3.82) 2.6 2.8 4.5 4.8 4.0 4.0 Yield in percent (B), including share redemption 9.5 12.8 P/E ratio, B (share price/earnings per share) 11.0 17.0 34.2 7.6 10.4 11.9 12.9 Cash flow after investments, before financing per share 8.45 -6.23 12.63 0.14 4.67 4.74 5.25 1) See page 158 for definitions. 2) According to the Board’s proposal for the year 2011. Three-year review of the SKF divisions/segments • Per-share data 167 General information Annual General Meeting shareholder is recorded in the shareholders’ Reports can also be ordered from: The Annual General Meeting will be held at register by Thursday, 19 April 2012. This SKF Investor Relations SKF Kristinedal, Byfogdegatan 4, Göteborg, means that the share­holder should give Helena Karlsson Sweden, at 14.30 on Wednesday, 25 April notice of his/her wish to be included in the SE-415 50 Göteborg 2012. The Annual General Meeting is the shareholders’ register to the trustee well Sweden ­primary forum at which shareholders have a in advance before that date. Telephone: +46 31 337 21 42 possibility to communicate directly with Group fax: +46 31 337 17 22 Management and the Board of Directors. Payment of dividend email: skf.ir@skf.com For the right to participate in the meeting, The Board of Directors proposes a dividend shareholders must be recorded in the of SEK 5.50 per share for 2011. 30 April Contact persons: ­share­holders’ register kept by Euroclear 2012 is proposed as the record date for Ingalill Östman Sweden AB by Thursday, 19 April 2012, and shareholders to be entitled to receive Senior Vice President, Group Communications must notify the company at the latest by ­d ividends for 2011. Subject to resolution by email: ingalill.ostman@skf.com Thursday, 19 April 2012 via the internet, the Annual General Meeting, it is expected www.skf.com, or by letter to that Euroclear will distribute the dividend on Marita Björk Friday, 4 May 2012. Head of Investor Relations AB SKF email: marita.bjork@skf.com c/o Computershare AB Financial information and reporting www.skf.com (Investors) Box 610 AB SKF will publish the following financial SE-182 16 Danderyd SKF Group Headquarters reports in 2012: Sweden SE-415 50 Göteborg or by telephone +46 31 337 25 50 Year-end report 2011 26 January Sweden (between 09.00 and 16.00) Annual Report 2011 13 March Telephone: +46 31 337 10 00 First-quarter report 2012 19 April www.skf.com When notifying the company, preferably in Half-year report 2012 18 July Company reg.no 556007-3495 writing, this should include details of name, Nine-month report 2012 18 October address, telephone number, registered Rob Jenkinson shareholding and advisors, if any. Where repThe reports are available in Swedish and Director, Corporate Sustainability resentation is being made by proxy, the origiEnglish. The financial reports are published SKF (UK) Limited nal of the proxy form shall be sent to the on SKF’s website, www.skf.com, choose Invest­ Sundon Park Road company before the Annual General Meeting. ors and click on Reports. A subscription service Luton LU3 3BL Shareholders whose shares are registered for press releases and interim reports is United Kingdom in the name of a trustee must have the shares available on the website under Investors, Telephone: +44 1582 49 63 17 registered temporarily in their own name in choose Subscribe. E-mail: rob.jenkinson@skf.com order to take part in the meeting. Any such The annual report is sent to those sharere-registration for the purpose of establishing holders who have notified the company that voting rights shall take place so that the they wish to receive a copy. Cautionary statement This report contains forward-looking statements that are based on the current expectations of the management of SKF. Although management believes that the expectations reflected in such forward-looking statements are reasonable, no assurance can be given that such expectations will prove to have been correct. Accordingly, results could differ materially from those implied in the forward-looking statements as a result of, among other factors, changes in economic, market and competitive conditions, changes in the ­r egulatory environment and other government actions, fluctuations in exchange rates and other factors mentioned in the Administration Report in this Annual Report. 168 General Information The following topics related to SKF Annual Report 2011 – Financial, environmental and social performance are to be found at www.skf.com, choose Investors and Reports. • Articles of Association • SKF Code of Conduct • The SKF Environmental, Health and Safety (EHS) Policy • Carbon dioxide emission data* • Environmental performance data* • Zero Accidents awards* • Productions sites as of 31 December 2011 • The compliance table to GRI G3 Guidelines (GRI Index Table)* • Review activities 2011* • Sustainability in SKF – Policies and practices* * Documents included in the review performed by KPMG on environmental and social performance. The SKF employees in the pictures included in this report are: Cover and page 10: From left: Sinisa Brajkovic, Nikolett Orosz, Johan Gavin and football players from the Bulgarian team at Gothia Cup 2011. Page 2-3 From left: Na Kabin, Dugan Mastellaro, Kleverson Dalmazo, Carlos Rogerio Dias Lemos, and Paula Bonaglia. Page 46 Liu Hang ® SKF, @PTITUDE, BeyondZero, BAKER, CARB, DUOFLEX, DURATEMP, LINCOLN, LUBRILEAN, MICROLOG, MULTILOG, NOWEAR, PEER, ROTOSTAT, SKF RELIABILITY SYSTEMS, SNFA and SPEEDI-SLEEVE are registered trademarks of the SKF Group. ® TILLXTREME is a registered trademark of PEER. TM SKF EXPLORER and X-TRACKER are trademarks of the SKF Group. © SKF Group 2012 The contents of this publication are the copyright of the publisher and may not be reproduced (even extracts) unless prior written permission is granted. Every care has been taken to ensure the accuracy of the information contained in this publication but no liability can be accepted for any loss or damage whether direct, indirect or consequential arising out of the use of the information contained herein. The report is originally written in English and translated to Swedish. SKF Annual Report including Sustainability Report 2010 was published on 11 March 2011. PUB GCR/R1 12692 EN · March 2012 Production: AB SKF and Admarco Photo: SKF Group, Anna Hult, Lasse Burell, Scanpix and Getty Images. Certain images used under license from Shutterstock.com. Paper: Arctic Silk+, FSC-certified Printing: Billes, FSC-certified Aktiebolaget SKF • SE-415 50 Gothenburg, Sweden • Telephone +46 31 337 10 00 • www.skf.com Key data 2011 2010 Net sales, SEKm 66,216 61,029 Operating profit, SEKm 9,612 8,452 Operating margin, % 14.5 13.8 Profit before taxes, SEKm 8,932 7,549 Basic earnings per share, SEK 13.29 11.28 Dividend per share, SEK 5.501) 5.00 Cash flow, after investments and before financing, SEKm 3,848 -2,838 Return on capital employed, % 23.6 24.0 Equity/assets ratio, % 37.8 36.6 Additions to tangible assets, SEKm 1,839 1,651 Registered number of employees, 31 December 46,039 44,742 Average number of employees 42,886 40,206 Number of shares 31 December 2011: 455,351,068, of which 42,949,482 A shares and 412,401,586 B shares. 1) Dividend according to the Board’s proposed distribution of surplus.
