United Nations Global Compact Communication on progress 2012 The Quality Connection Contents Declaration of support 3 The LEONI Group 5 Human rights 6 Labour standards 8 Environmental protection 10 Anti-corruption 12 Results and key figures 14 Declaration of support | UN Global Compact 3 Declaration of support As a company operating globally, LEONI has made it its miswhy we have certified our principal production facilities in sion to ensure observance of human rights and recognised accordance with the ISO 14001 environmental standard why we labour standards at our 93 facilities in 31 countries. This form launched our Green Technology Initiative in 2009, with which of responsibility was already taken on in 2003 with publication we are advancing towards being the leading manufacturer of of the LEONI Social Charter, continued in 2007 with the LEONI cables for environmentally friendly technologies. Code of Ethics and taken further forward in 2011 by joining the Corruption prevention is managed as a key compliance field in UN Global Compact. our Compliance Management System. LEONI thereby ensures The obligation under the German Corporate Governance anti-corruption conduct in accordance with the principles of the Code, the LEONI Social Charter and the LEONI Code of Ethics UN Global Compact. constitutes a solid basis for all of LEONI’s activity and commitThis first LEONI Global Compact Communication on Progress ment to fulfil the ten principles of the UN Global Compact. documents our key steps towards upholding the 10 principles Sustainability has especially high priority for LEONI. It means of the UN Global Compact through to signing it and details our both a long-term business outlook and integration of ecological measures and results since joining in August 2011. and social aspects in our management systems. We regard this LEONI is committed to ongoing support of the ten principles as a contribution both to safeguarding our Company‘s future of the UN Global Compact and to continual improvement in and towards sustainable growth of business and society. That is applying those principles. why we submitted the questionnaire on the Carbon Disclosure Project for the years 2005 and 2006 for the first time in 2007; Nuremberg, July 2012 LEONI AG The Management Board Dr Klaus Probst Dieter Bellé Uwe H.Lamann 4 The LEONI Group | UN Global Compact 5 The LEONI Group Leading cable systems manufacturer with a global footprint LEONI operates worldwide, providing wires, optical fibers, Geared to global trends cables and cable systems as well as related services for the The Company intends in the future to benefit more from automotive sector and other industries. The group of comglobal trends. These present the Company with major chalpanies market-listed in the German MDAX index employs lenges because they frequently entail greater consumption of more than 63,000 people in 31 countries and generated resources and environmental harm. At the same time, howconsolidated sales of EUR 3.7 billion in 2011. ever, they provide major opportunities. LEONI is therefore, with its products and services, preparing for the change involving Established 95 years ago, the Company now ranks among the demography, ecology, mobility, globalisation, industrialisation world’s largest and most successful cable manufacturers. In and urbanisation. Especially with respect to environmental proaddition to tailor-made cable solutions, the Group is increastection, LEONI aims to become the most innovative cable supingly offering its customers complete systems with perfectly plier for the ‘green technology’ market. harmonised components – from the cable itself through to the required connectors and fixings. Ongoing growth of the ComTradition and progress since the 16th century pany as a provider of development work and systems is a sigA small wire factory in the Franconia region of Bavaria laid the nificant trend in this respect. foundation for today’s global player LEONI back in 1569. At that time, Frenchman Anthoni Fournier began with a handful of Experience in and presence on the markets of the future staff in Nuremberg to produce finest gold and silver threads, LEONI focuses its business on the core markets of Automotive, known as Lyonese wares, for precious woven products. His sons Industry & Healthcare, Communication & Infrastructure, Elecopened further production facilities in the region. From these trical Appliances as well as Conductors & Copper Solutions. Its beginnings, Leonische Werke Roth-Nürnberg AG emerged customers include well-known companies such as ABB, BMW, in 1917. Then as now the ability to change as well as a keen Bosch, Continental, Deutsche Telekom, EADS, Ericsson, Fiat, GM, sense for trends in the market and for customer requirements IBM, Jaguar/Land Rover, Johnson Controls, MAN, Mercedesare among the key characteristics of the Company, which was Benz, Meyer Werft, Philips, PSA Peugeot Citroen, Renault/Nisrenamed LEONI AG in 1999. Long-standing values simultanesan, Shell, Siemens, Solarworld, Volvo and VW. The Company ously serve as a guide for acting in a predictable and responsialready leads the world market as a supplier of single-core ble manner. automotive cables; in the wiring systems market it occupies first place in Europe and is fourth worldwide. In addition, LEONI is among the leading manufacturers across Europe in all of its other business areas. More information is to be found at www.leoni.com 6 Human rights Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of international human rights within their sphere of influence; and Principle 2: make sure they are not complicit in human rights abuses. LEONI supports and respects the protection of inter­ nationally recognised human rights within its sphere of influence and ensures that it is not complicit in human rights abuses. Human rights | UN Global Compact 7 LEONI Social Charter and LEONI Code of Ethics Courses on LEONI Code of Ethics compliance LEONI was one of the first companies in the world to draft The mandatory training courses that we have been holding for a Social Charter in April 2003. It applies directly to all LEONI management worldwide for several years, and which currently Group companies worldwide. Ensuring employee and human involve about 150 managers, were switched to the “Compliance rights as well as assuming social responsibility have always Basics and LEONI Code of Ethics” e-learning module starting in been integral elements of corporate policy. LEONI’s European 2011. In 2012, these courses will be offered in further languages Works Council and the International Metalworkers’ Federation in addition to German and English, and they will be extended (IMF) are co-signatories to this Charter. to more than 10,000 employees. This will involve all LEONI staff In the LEONI Social Charter, the Group commits to respecting with e-mail access. We will be using a training platform with internationally recognised human rights and to support their worldwide accessibility for this purpose. The courses make our observance. We also encourage our business partners to conmanagers and staff more aware on the topic of human rights. sider this declaration in their own business policy. We regard this as a beneficial basis for reciprocal business relationships. Health, safety and environmental policy In March 2007, LEONI also introduced its own “Code of Ethics”. Acting sustainably safeguards our Company’s future. Specific It is binding on all employees of the LEONI Group worldwide principles for action are embedded in our health, safety and and has been made accessible to every staff member. environmental policy to ensure the health and safety of everyThe Code of Ethics describes in unequivocal terms the values one who works for or with LEONI. These include avoiding injury and the demands placed on the kind of personally responsible to or illness of our employees by preventive detection of risks and honest conduct that has always guided LEONI as a busiand effective averting of threat. Acting in a safety aware manness enterprise. The crux of the Code of Ethics is that LEONI ner is part of every employee’s job. Adhering to all legal obligaemployees act in accordance with the corporate rules and the tions on safety at work and other requirements is the basis for statutory regulations of the legal system that applies to them. our activity and the applicable national standards are minimum Every LEONI employee must, when newly recruited, have a correquirements in this respect. LEONI undertakes to observe all responding clause in their service contract by which he or she pertinent laws and directives on safety at work as well as interundertakes to observe the LEONI Code of Ethics. nal rules of conduct. The LEONI Social Charter and the LEONI Code of Ethics are published on www.leoni.com. 8 Labour standards Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. LEONI is committed with worldwide effect to providing a working environment for its employees that is free of discrimination in both employment and occupation, and in which there is freedom of association. The right to collective bargaining is effectively recognised. LEONI strictly rejects child and all forms of forced labour. These principles are embedded in LEONI’s Social Charter. Labour standards | UN Global Compact 9 Measures Diversity Part of the annual Control Self-Assessment of managers perDue to our Group’s operations in 31 countries, our workforce taining to LEONI’s Social Charter involves confirming at all of includes people from many nations, cultures and ways of life. the Group’s 93 locations that all employees are of at least the With plants in Brazil, Egypt, India and South Korea, among other minimum age under local law and are at least 15 years old. This places, virtually all of the world’s religions, including Christianensures that child labour is never used at LEONI. ity, Islam, Hinduism and Buddhism, are represented. To promote Furthermore, breaches of these principles require „Human acceptance of this diversity, training courses on the General Resource Reporting“ and can also be reported directly to our Equal Treatment Act are regularly held at LEONI. Chief Compliance Officer via our internal compliance process. The Company joined the Diversity Charter in 2010. This is a In addition, the Internal Audit department checks this on a ranproject to create a prejudice-free work environment initiated dom basis as a separate control factor of our Internal Control by Minister of State Dr Maria Böhmer, the German federal govSystem (ICS). ernment’s officer for migration, refugees and integration. Commitment to the standards of the Diversity Charter establishes Supply chain management an open-minded business culture based on inclusiveness and In order to apply the principles of the UN Global Compact in mutual respect. Different talents in the workforce are to be receveryday work, it is of great importance to LEONI that social ognised and deployed in a targeted way. LEONI intends thereby responsibility is also taken into account in the context of supto contribute to establishing a climate of acceptance and ply relationships. This applies not only within LEONI, but also mutual trust in society and to raise appreciation of embraced to suppliers’ operations and for the Company in general. In the diversity. selection of suppliers, we have in our Wiring Systems Division This diversity is also reflected in the international nature of therefore ever since 2006 checked candidates according to the our management on the first four levels at LEONI, which comprinciples of the UN Global Compact using a supplier self-audit. prise 21 nationalities. More than 40 percent of these positions The supplier will receive approval to supply only if either the are thus held by non-Germans. Social Charter and the Code of Ethics or the principles of the UN Global Compact are accepted. Social commitment In addition to our Social Charter, which suppliers already had LEONI commits itself with donations for and sponsorship of to accept in the past as part of our General Terms and Condivarious social projects, where we give priority to sustainabitions, the principles of the UN Global Compact have also been lity and a regional approach. In 2011, for example, we supporadopted in our T&Cs. Here we draw express attention to the fact ted the ‘Healthy Food for School Children’ and ‘City for Childthat, in the event of any serious or repeated breach of the prinren’ projects in Nuremberg. Overall, we promoted numerous ciples as detailed in the T&Cs, LEONI is entitled to terminate the social projects and establishments in those countries where supply relationship without notice. we are represented with larger facilities. In 2011, we supported children’s aid organisations, sports clubs, crèches and orphanages, among other good causes, with a total of about EUR 275,000. The single biggest donation, of EUR 100,000, went to SOS-Kinderdörfer (China and Serbia), an organisation for children in need. Note item “Social responsibility” in our T&Cs: http://www.leoni.com/AGB.179.0.html 10 Environmental protection Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. LEONI supports protection of the environment with a precautionary approach and has several ongoing initiatives to promote greater awareness of responsibility for the environment. We therefore encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. LEONI regards environmental protection as a primary corporate objective. Our environmental management is geared to keeping the impact of all our processes on nature as minor as possible. The principles of our environmental policy also play a role in the selection of our suppliers. Environmental protection | UN Global Compact 11 Initiatives relative to sales. In the future, too, LEONI shall use the project’s GREEN TECHNOLOGY LEONI has made it its task to become findings to further reduce its CO2 emissions. the most innovative supplier of cables for ‘green applications’. Aggravating shortage of resources and mounting harm to the Saving resources environment make it necessary to develop processes, products LEONI endeavours everywhere to reduce energy consumption and applications that are sustainable, energy-saving and enviand thereby CO2 emissions. Both divisions run environmental ronmentally compatible. We encapsulate our endeavours to management systems and multifaceted environmental protecimprove both our value chain from an ecological aspect and, tion activities, which are adapted to the respective requirein a targeted way, to supply products for use in proven enviments of their activities. In our Wire & Cable Solutions Divironmental technologies in our ‘green technology’ plan. This sion an energy manager has, since 2011, been ensuring more encompasses all products, system solutions and services that energy-efficient processes and is planning the use of recuperaenable us to operate with more energy efficiency and to be tive energy for our production. The ‘Factory of the Future’, a easier on resources, thereby reducing emissions and pollution production facility with energetically optimised production, is of the environment. In so doing, we rate our activities according being planned our Roth facility. In so doing, attention is being to the following three criteria of product, process and applicapaid to both more efficient processes and energetically sensible tion: methods like heat recovery. ■■ Product: CO2-REDUCTION Due to our work towards CO2 reduction, Increasing the proportion of low-emission, environmentally LEONI’s CO2 emissions have dropped by 14 % compared with compatible raw materials in our cable products as well as rai2010. This is reflected in the CO2 emissions relative to every milsing the ability to recycle the processed materials and compolion euros in sales. We have set ourselves the target of reducing nents; one example being our halogen-free LEONI EcoSense CO2 emissions by 3 % annually. cable. Direct CO2 emissions group-wide [ tons per 1 mill. € in sales ] 60 ■■ Process: 40 Optimising resource efficiency in our manufacturing proces20 ses by deploying energy-efficient machinery. Certifying more 0 2009 2010 2011 facilities in our global production network to the ISO 14001 environmental standard. Energy consumption There was a year-on-year reduction in energy consumed in ■■ Application: 2011, yielding a saving of 14.75 %. Expanding our range of products and solutions that are used Energy consumption group-wide [ MWh per 1 mill. € in sales ] directly in green markets and technologies or serve as input 150 products or components for green applications, e.g. wires, 100 cables and conductors for the solar and wind power indust50 ries. 0 2009 2010 2011 CARBON DISCLOSURE PROJECT LEONI participated in the Carbon Disclosure Project for the fourth time in 2011. On behalf RECYCLING The EU End-of-Life Vehicle Directive (“Directive of institutional investors, the initiative surveys the world’s lar2000/53/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council on gest, market-listed companies on the amount of their CO2 emisend-of-life vehicles”, dated 18 September 2000) defines the sions, among other things. The trend in this respect shows that objective, among others, of broadening the recycling and the LEONI is well on its way towards improving its CO2 readings. reusability of waste. LEONI has, above all due to the use of copIn the ranking of comparable companies participating in the per as a main element of its products, an ideal starting position Carbon Disclosure Project, LEONI was again at the top end relain this respect. Copper is a 100 % recyclable material. tive to the number of employees and advanced to the middle 12 Anti-corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. LEONI’s rules of conduct, which are laid down in the LEONI Code of Ethics, clearly reflect the anti-corruption mindset. There are clear rules concerning both the giving and receiving of gifts as well as control systems that proactively monitor observance of these rules. Furthermore, we pursued all reported suspect cases and did not find any breaches in the process. Anti-corruption | UN Global Compact 13 LEONI Code of Ethics – Prevention of corruption reporting system provides for reporting of the compliance risks The LEONI Code of Ethics stipulates that no employee anywhere across all levels of the Company. The avoidance process comin the world may offer or demand any benefit relating to preferprises various e-learning modules, among them the module ential treatment involving a business partner. on the compliance field of prevention of corruption, various For the past several years there have been training courses explicit statements of undertaking and the Control Self-Assesson this topic for all 150 managers on LEONI’s first four management process of the respective managers, the integrated comment levels, which from 2011 were switched to the “Anti-corpliance status reporting as well as the internal whistleblower ruption” e-learning module. In 2013 this course will additionsystem. Staff were informed worldwide in this regard that any ally be expanded to all pertinent staff worldwide and offered in compliance breaches can and should be reported directly to the more languages. This will concern approximately 3,500 LEONI Chief Compliance Officer. employees. We will be using a training platform with worldwide As a matter of principle, LEONI uses function separation to accessibility for this purpose. This course has further sharpened rule out any accounting manipulation. A strict double verificaour managers’ awareness concerning the prevention of corruption principle provides corruption-relevant processes with addition. tional safeguard. Automated compliance audits by means of Control SelfAssessments and a statement of undertaking to be submitted DETECTION The detection process comprises the areas of by each manager on an annual basis provide the prevention of ‘internal audits’ by the Internal Audit department, ‘compliance corruption with a further safeguard. field-related audits’ and ‘clarification of deviations’ by the respective compliance field managers as well as external audits. Compliance management system The Internal Audit department uses the Control Self-AssessLEONI has developed its own compliance system that comprises ments as a template for compliance and ICS audits. External the key compliance fields. This also includes the compliance audits comprise structured, regular spot checks, which are carfield of ‘anti-corruption’, which is overseen by a compliance ried out either alone or in close collaboration with companies field manager. The compliance programme breaks down by the specialising in compliance matters and internal control systems, three processes of avoidance, detection and response. such as accounting and law firms that operate internationally. AVOIDANCE The avoidance process is based on the risk RESPONSE In the event of a compliance breach, either the policy stipulated by the Management Board and the statement Chief Compliance Officer or the responsible compliance field of our Management Board on compliance with the following manager will notify the Management Board. The Management key points: Board will decide on the suitable and appropriate measures and designate the person responsible for their immediate ■■ Neither corruption nor breaches of competition law, export implementation. Responses can involve, for example, repeated control, the LEONI Social Charter or the LEONI Code of Ethics training courses, ad hoc audits by either internal or external are tolerated in the LEONI Group. auditors and/or sanctions available under employment law for ■■ We use neither bribes nor cartel agreements to win a conthe responsible staff members. Both the Management Board tract. and the Corporate Compliance Committee continuously review ■■ Every staff member and every manager is obliged to apply all the compliance system for possible ways of improving it. In necessary measures within the Company to refrain from and addition, the information and notices provided by staff and avoid infringements of the law. operational managers also result in ongoing improvement of the whole compliance programme. Compliance within the risk management system at LEONI is controlled and monitored at corporate level by the Corporate Compliance Committee, which meets regularly with the participation of Management Board members. The risk management The LEONI Code of Ethics is See also “Courses on LEONI Code of Ethics published on www.leoni.com compliance” under item 3 “Human rights”. 14 Results and key figures LEONI guidelines and systems Results & key figures Principles 1 – 2: Human rights ■■ The obligation to uphold internationally recognised human ■■ Every LEONI employee is, upon being recruited, handed or rights is laid down in the LEONI Code of Ethics and the given access to the LEONI Code of Ethics. LEONI Social Charter. ■■ 2800 staff and managers worldwide have completed an ■■ The e-learning module on the LEONI Code of Ethics sube-learning course on the topic of “Compliance Basics and ject area contributes to sharpening the awareness among LEONI Code of Ethics”. By the end of 2012, a total of more management and staff of human rights. than 11,000 of our managers and staff are to have completed this course. The course will be repeated annually. ■■ Embedded in the health, safety and environmental policy are principles for action that ensure the health and safety of everyone who works for or with LEONI. Principles 3 – 6: Labour standards ■■ Courses are held at LEONI on the General Equal Treatment ■■ The 2800 staff and managers who have so far compleAct to ensure a working environment that is free of discrited the “Compliance Basics and LEONI Code of Ethics” mination. e-learning module were hereby also taught the principles of the LEONI Social Charter that concern labour standards. ■■ The right of association as well as equal opportunity and This course is to be expanded to a total of 11,000 staff and equal treatment are assured in LEONI’s Social Charter. managers by the end of 2012 and will be repeated annually. ■■ Through this participation in the Diversity Charter LEONI ■■ Furthermore, people on the first four management levels ensures diversity and mutual respect. will complete this course when they join the Company, also outside the annual schedule. ■■ In the selection of suppliers, a Control Self-Assessment ensures that suppliers accept the principles of the UN Global Compact or alternatively the LEONI Social Charter and the LEONI Code of Ethics. ■■ Our principles on observing labour standards are also embedded in our T&Cs. Results and key figures | UN Global Compact 15 LEONI guidelines and systems Results & key figures Principles 7 – 9: Environmental protection ■■ LEONI condenses its efforts towards saving resources and ■■ Our sales of products and solutions for green technology sustainability in the product, process and application areas grew by about 33 % in 2011, to € 223.1 million. under the term ‘green technology’. ■■ Sales of products that are made in environmentally certi■■ Through the progressing certification of our plants we guafied facilities or using energy-efficient plant and machinery rantee that they adhere to the ISO 14001 environmental increased by 38 % to € 2,972.4 million. standard. ■■ In our Wire & Cable Solutions Division 43 % of the facili■■ Via renewed participation in the Carbon Disclosure Project ties are certified to the ISO 14001 environmental standard, we both record CO2 emissions and gain knowledge on ways while the figure in the Wiring Systems Division is 36 %. to reduce them. ■■ LEONI participates in the “Our Cars” http://www.unsereautos.de/ initiative and thus in projects to recycle them, such as the EU End-of-Life Vehicle Directive, for example. Principle 10: Anti-corruption ■■ The LEONI Code of Ethics stipulates clear and binding rules ■■ People on the first four management levels, i.e. approx. 150 on combating corruption. managers, have already completed the ‘anti-corruption’ e-learning module. ■■ Through function separation LEONI ensures that situations at risk of involving corruption are avoided. ■■ Our guide on prevention of corruption, the LEONI Code of Ethics, has been made available to all managers and staff ■■ Alongside other tools for controlling compliance, an e-learworldwide and has also been translated into 19 languages. ning module on ‘anti-corruption’ is incorporated in the Compliance Management System. ■■ In 2011, Deloitte & Touche audited LEONI’s compliance management system (CMS) according to the new ‘IDW PS 980 Principles of proper auditing of compliance manage ment systems’ auditing standard. See also 2011 Annual Report LEONI AG, page 97. LEONI AG Marienstrasse 7 90402 Nuremberg Germany Telephone +49 (0)911-2023-0 Telefax +49 (0)911-2023-455 E-mail info@leoni.com www.leoni.com
