CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Communication On Progress Fiscal Year 2010 2011 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2011 1 Communication On Progress Characteristics Of The Report Part I contains KRETZ Part II states our Part III introduces the S.A.’s Chairman’s vision on Corporate CSR Company Policy continuous Social Responsibility and the programs endorsement and (CSR) and outlines implemented, while support statement aspects of the it outlines the handsto the United strategy devised for on activities carried Nations Global the organization. out during this Compact Principles, period, showing their a description of the relationship with company profile, the Global Compact its products and Principles and the its outreach in the Global Reporting world. Initiatives (GRI) indicators in each case. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2011 2 Table of contents Part I President’s Letter  5 Company Profile  8 Our History  8 Our People  10 Our Design  10 Our Products 11 Our Markets  11 Products12 Kretz in the World  20 Awards 21 Part II Commitment23 ¿How do we understand CSR in Kretz? 23 CSR as Company Philosophy  24 Our Vision  24 Our Mission  24 Our Values  24 CSR Through Our Products and Processes  26 Part III Kretz CSR Policy  29 Kretz CSR Programs  30 Activities Carried Out  31 Kretz Culture  32 Decent Work  34 Integrated Management System  36 Intensive Knowledge  38 Sustainable Company  40 Values Chain  43 Service Excellence  45 Company, State and Community  47 Impact Matrix  51 GRI Indicators with No Direct Association to CSR Programs  52 Summary of Indicators  56 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2011 3 Corporate Social Responsibility Report PART I COMMUNICATION COMMUN CO COMMUN MUN NIC ICATIO ICATION TIO NO ON GR ROG REES N PPROGRESS ESS 201 2011 01 11 President’s Letter Eng. Daniel Kretz President Kretz s.a. This document is Kretz’s fourth Communication on Progress to the United Nations Global Compact. The period reported corresponds to the business year 2010-2011. Already established as the Company Social Balance, it allows us to systematically assess our activities according to social, environmental, work and transparency parameters. During this period, we strived to provide content to our CSR Policy and Programs through activities which were aligned to the Global Compact principles, following a territorial strategy that strengthens education and knowledge. Together with the people who make up this company, I feel we have taken significant steps forward in our development as a company that is immersed in its sphere of influence. Such is the case with the creation, in conjunction with the National University of Rosario, of the Center for the Companies-University Connection V+ (Centro de Vinculación Universidad-Empresas V+) and the career on Specialization in the Management of Innovation and Technological Connection GTEC (Especialización en Gestión de la Innovación y la Vinculación Tecnológica GTEC), offered at the this center and of which we are members of the Advisory Board. Both initiatives aim at strengthening the articulation between the productive actors of the region and the techno-scientific system. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2011 5 President’s Letter The release of our first cash register NUMA was another significant event, with which we entered the world of fiscal controllers and we drastically widened our influence towards stakeholders such as customers and suppliers. The development of this new line of products implies a quantitative and qualitative leap in terms of company profile and outreach, which in the future will allow us to integrate the world of weighing and the fiscal world, and thus, to develop solutions of a higher added value. The fiscal project comprises different stages, NUMA being the first. The equipment is currently being commercialized in Argentina and other Latin American countries. The following stages guarantee the expansion of our products and related services offer. The Kaizen teamwork philosophy for continuous improvement is still spreading throughout the company. Two clear examples are the second series of the KRETZ QUALITY Award, which ended up with a greater participation of teams and a variety of subjects, and the CSR Kaizen team which continues to be annually renewed. As to this new report, its greater innovation corresponds is the format change which aims at aligning it with the Global Compact criteria. In particular, we have added some indicators that were not previously reported for being considered inherent to a socially responsible way of working. We have modified its structure so that we can more clearly present the activities carried out in each of the CSR Programs and the results achieved through GRI (Global Reporting Initiatives) indicators. We have also prepared a summary of all the GRI indicators, which refers the reader to the report page where they are detailed. In the products section, we now highlight the actions which have a social and environmental impact. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2011 6 President’s Letter Since we joined the Global Compact in 2007, the eight current CSR Programs have been consolidating through ongoing activities. Therefore, we have decided to keep the matrix of the impact they generate in our sphere of influence. Our corporate philosophy, based on the values of integrity and leadership, translates into responsibility for products quality, people’s development, protection of the environment full compliance with standards and progress of our community. Finally, we are honored to communicate that the town of Pueblo Esther, where our industrial plant is located, has adhered to the Global Compact. This fact is significant, as it is the second town in Argentina to adhere to the commitment. It strengthens our link with the town and it encourages us to inspire other social actors. Daniel Kretz President KRETZ s.a. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2011 7 Company Profile KRETZ S.A. is a limited liability company established under the laws of the Argentine Republic. With 48 years of experience designing innovative technological solutions for the industry and commerce, KRETZ has positioned itself as the leading company in the development and commercialization of electronic scales. Our increasing presence in Latin America and our search for new markets stimulate our development of new products and the constant evolution and progress of our company. From the beginning, we have preserved the same values of integrity and leadership in KRETZ. That is the root of our philosophy, supported by enthusiasm in teamwork, devotion for excellence, commitment with the customer, respect for the environment and passion for the development of new solutions. Totem situated at the entrance The company has become one of the leading companies in the Argentine of the Industrial plant technological industry and a prominent exporter in the country. Our History Our company was born in 1963, out of the initiative developed by Engineer Carlos Kretz. In 1969, the company obtains the representation of Hewlett Packard for its measuring and electro-medical instruments. The year 1981 is a milestone in the history of the company, due to the development of the first device for electronic weighing, the sector in which the Carlos Kretz, 1963 company would consolidate its industrial profile. In 1985, the first commercial scale is launched to the market and by 1996 the company reaches a prominent position in the Argentine market of electronic scales. Our capacity to grow and adapt ourselves has allowed us to maintain this leadership up to the present and achieve clear perspectives of expansion towards other segments in the technology industry. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2011 8 Company Profile In 2003, there is a generational change in the company management, which since then has been in charge of the founder’s son, Engineer Daniel Kretz. In 2004, the industrial plant in Pueblo Esther is inaugurated. Located in a strategically situated 5-hectares site on the highway connecting the cities of Rosario and Buenos Aires, the 4,000m2 intelligent plant has been specifically conceived to merge harmoniously with the surrounding landscape. In 2005, with the development of a management software which integrates all KRETZ equipment, the user is able to set up the network remotely and get consolidated reports in real time. In 2006, the first price-verifier information kiosk is released. In November 2007, the company joined the Global Agreement of Unites Nations with the aim of adopting a comprehensive model to guide the business development and spread an ethical commitment. Title page of Progress Report 2008 A year later, the first Progress Report (Comunicación de Progreso, CoP) is sent to the United Nations, comprising the most important practical initiatives and actions adopted by then. This document, identified as Progress Report 2008, had the aim of organizing and systematizing future presentations. During the years 2009 and 2010, the company produces the progress reports corresponding to the periods matching the company fiscal years. At the beginning of 2011, the new fiscal product of the company, a cash register, is introduced to the market. This document, the fourth annual progress report with the updates of fiscal year 2010-2011, is established as the company Social Balance. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2011 9 Company Profile Our People In KRETZ, we believe that excellence is only achieved through continuous training and teamwork. To accomplish this, it is crucial to create an atmosphere of harmony in the work environment, a space where the channels of communication remain open and where creativity, cooperation and responsibility guide each of our actions. Commitment to people and the company is at the core of our values. All the members of the KRETZ team know the role they play to perfection and contribute their individual effort to achieve collective goals. The relationship with our customers is governed by the same principles. We are committed to helping them run their business by offering a courteous and friendly service and ongoing assistance. Our commitment to product quality is reflected in the ISO 9001 certification. Worker from the Operations However, KRETZ’s interest extends beyond this field, in order to show its concern department about the environment, which is reflected in the ISO 14001 certification for Environmental Management, as well as in the creation of a decent and harmonious work environment, certified by the OHSAS 18001 (Occupational Health and Safety Advisory Services). Our Design Our mission is to help our customers run and manage their business. To achieve this, we rely on a team of professionals in the area of Research and Development that permanently work to satisfy your concerns and needs. Kretz philosophy of design is based on a human conception of technology, in the search for a design oriented to enhance every person’s quality of life, including the concepts of inclusive design and sustainable design, as well as structural synthesis, simplicity, harmony and rationality. Worker from the Engineering department COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2011 10 Company Profile Our Products Our constant search for innovation, functionality and adaptability has allowed us to develop a range of products and solutions that meets the diverse needs of our different customers. Our products range from scales, fiscal controllers and custom-designed solutions for supermarkets to a wide industrial line. All KRETZ products also have an efficient after-sales service, which is also ISO 9001:2008 certified. Our Markets The company regularly operates in the following countries: Worker from the Engineering department • Bolivia • Colombia • Costa Rica • Chile • Ecuador • Guatemala • México • Panamá • Paraguay • Perú • Dominican Republic • Uruguay • Venezuela COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2011 11 Products Supermarket Series REPORT REPORT NX The Report model is a scale for The Report NX line represents a registering Weight, Price and new generation of KRETZ scales, Amount due, which features a designed to satisfy the needs of robust thermal printer. It is ideal the most demanding markets as to for stores with weighing and weighing, labeling and information labeling, as well as information management. It has a greater management needs. It allows the capacity for loading products user to optimize the management (PLU), as well as high-contrast LCD of business operations in self-service displays, and it enables the design stores, retail stores, supermarkets, of labels that include images and hypermarkets and general retailing. nutrition facts table. Its two versions, low display and pole display, can be easily adapted PLURA to the space needs of the different The Plura price verifier is designed stores. The Report technology to meet the demand of self-service features network management of and other retail stores, for real-time up to 99 scales. Its interconnection information related to products. It does not require any additional has a laser bar code scanner and a interfaces or network cards, as all stereophonic sound-reproduction the necessary hardware is built-in in system. each unit. PLURA MM The network is managed through This version of Plura features a the iTegra management software, Truecolor screen that allows video especially developed by Kretz. reproduction with stereophonic sound, apart from displaying Depending on the model, information about prices, communication is established promotions and offers. There is a through the RS 232/485 protocol, Wi-Fi version which provides total TCP/IP or Wi-Fi, which gives great flexibility for the arrangement of flexibility and helps to adapt the consultation points. to the customer’s technology requirements. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2011 12 Products iTegra SOFTWARE Report, Report NX, “Advanced” Software developed by KRETZ in Programmable Indicator, Plura and multi-platform JAVA language Numa). It offers the possibility to (it can be used with Windows, control access to the system by MAC OS and Linux, among other means of user access code and operating systems). It allows password. It can be adapted to data management of all KRETZ the management software of each networked equipment. Example: store. COMMITMENT UPDATE The electronics of the Report Nx and Plura lines was redesigned on the basis of superficial assembly plates, with the aim of conforming to the 2002/95/CE directive on Restriction of Hazardous Substances (RoHS) in electrical and electronic equipment. This directive seeks to restrict the use of substances which are hazardous to the environment such as lead, mercury, cadmium, chrome, PBB and PBDE. Commercial Series NOVEL DATA NOVEL The Novel Data and Novel Data Com It is a PPI (Spanish acronym for models are scales for registering Weight, Price, Amount) scale, ideal Weight, Price and Amount due, and for use in baker’s, grocer’s and can store up to 1,000 memories butcher’s shops and in self-service (Price Look Up or PLU). They meet stores, among others. the most usual needs such as retail selling and pre-packaging DELTA operations. They can be connected It is a PPI (Weight, Price, Amount) to KRETZ printers to generate scale which provides excellent receipts or bar code labels. The features and has been designed for NOVEL DATA COM model uses the various applications in greengrocer’s, ABM-Quick management software, butcher’s and baker’s shops, and developed by KRETZ, to operate self-service stores, among others. from the PC. For counter-top use, it is very easy to operate, it is highly accurate and improves business performance. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2011 13 Products CENIT features such as communication to It is a PPI (Weight, Price, Amount) computer, cash register, POS and scale, but with hanging scales printer, which make it a suitable physical features. Ideal for stores product for points of sales. with reduced counter space or for greengrocer’s, butcher’s and DIXIE fishmonger’s shops. Hanging scale, ideal for those stores with no counter space and SINGLE for street selling. Widely used This model displays weight only in greengrocer’s, butcher’s and and was developed to measure fishmonger’s shops. It is a heavy-duty the weight of incoming goods. It scale with electronic components is mainly used in gastronomy, post that are not damaged by aggressive offices, ice-cream parlors, hardware materials (for example: fluids and stores, offices and warehouses. dust). It provides an shockproof and overloading protection system. ELITE This model is aimed at the same COMET sector as the Single model; however, The Comet model is a counting its distinctive versions and features scale. This model is very versatile were developed to satisfy the and it is frequently used in hardware specific demands of each type of stores, grocer’s, and to control the customer. Also, it can be connected entry of goods. Ideal for counterto a PC or cash register. top use. STYLO PIVOT This model has been designed for It is used in similar industrial sectors those customers that need to track such as the Comet model, as it also the entry and exit of products by allows the user to control the entry weight. Ideal for use in ice-cream and counting of parts. Unlike the parlors, gastronomy, hardware previous model, it has a greater stores, post offices, etc. Fully weighing capacity, as well as a manufactured in stainless steel, it tower display for the customer and comes in two versions, one with a another one on the base for the front and rear display on a tower operator. The tare feature allows the and the other with a front and user to subtract the incidence of the rear display on the base. It has packaging weight in the sample. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2011 14 Products GALA INDICATOR 5640 It is a scale for people. Ideal for Weight indicator used to implement use in pharmacies, gymnasiums electronic scales or conversion kits. and hospitals where precision and It provides an ABS cabinet with strength are essential. It includes an adjustable tilt and base for table, wall easy-to-read adjustable-tilt display. or column mount. It has zero, tare and print keys and indicators. The VET maximum capacity and minimum Designed for use in veterinary division are programmable. It has clinics, the Vet model is ideal to an RS-232 serial communication control the weight of animals and port outlet. pets. It provides a large platform and a digital weight indicator to be INDICATOR 5660 mounted on the counter or wall. Weight indicator with watertight stainless steel cabinet. It has zero, DIXIE R tare and print keys and indicators. Designed to provide solutions for Its maximum capacity and minimum the meat industry. Ideal to meet division are programmable. It shows the weighing needs of hanging the number of weighments and carcasses. It comes with two accumulated total weight. It has an displays, one for the operator, RS-232 serial communication port the other one for the customer, a outlet. reinforced hook, tare function, and zero and tare indicators. “ADVANCED” PROGRAMMABLE INDICATOR RAIL MOUNTED SCALE It has a 6-digit weight display and a This model is a solution for 10-character alphanumeric display. industries which need to control It allows the user to manage up weight during operation. Ideal to 5,000 memories (PLU) and 99 to be used in meat-processing operators. It has an RS-232/ RSindustries, as it helps to determine 485 serial communication port weight reductions in the deboning compatible with Kretz scales and an and freezing process. Excellent for outlet for Mara and Koala printers. weighing carcasses. Designed to endure hostile environments. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2011 15 Products MINI MASTER | MASTER It has an RS-232 serial Counter-top scale featuring an communication port outlet for indicator with adjustable viewing connecting to KRETZ computers or angle mounted on a tower. It has printers. The stainless steel platform zero, tare and printing keys and is 520 x 440 mm. We offer an zero, tare and movement indicators. optional bag holder. TRANSPARENT BUSINESSES The nonautomatic weighing instruments for commercial use are governed by Law 19511 of 1972, and the 2003 Decree 788 and Resolutions 48 and 49 of Legal Metrology; and they must comply with the metrological and technical regulations of the SCyNEI No. 2307 Resolution. All weighing equipment commercialized in Argentina by KRETZ is approved by the National Office of Legal Metrology. Furthermore, the company quality system is audited annually by the National Institute for Industrial Technology (Instituto Nacional de Tecnología Industrial, INTI). All this ensures users and consumers have weighing instruments that guarantee transparent commercial transactions and, thus, avoid any possible corrupt practices. Printers Series MARA labels to connect to Novel and Alphanumeric thermal printer with Novel Data scales. bar code to connect to scales. KOALA PC MARA PC Alphanumeric thermal receipts Alphanumeric thermal printer with printer for continuous paper. To bar code to connect to computers. connect to Novel, Novel Data and Cenit. PANDA Matrix printer for self-adhesive COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2011 16 Products Fiscal Series NUMA This model marks the beginning of the customer with blue LEDs of KRETZ offer to the fiscal world. great visibility. The equipment was designed to It has a robust keyboard with enter the highest segment in the individual keys as well as a matrix fiscal controllers market. Developed printer. entirely in the company following international standards, this first As an innovation, the equipment cash register is added to the offer has ultraviolet LEDS for detecting of KRETZ solutions to the business. counterfeit banknotes. It allows the user to manage up Furthermore, its self-threading to 100 departments and 35,000 paper system and its easy-to-open memories (PLU). It has 20 direct lid make roll replacement easy. keys associated to departments and memories, and it can issue total or NUMA is commercialized with partial reports daily or periodically. a metallic compartment for the money and the iTegra management It has an electronic identification software. system with Chip Cards, a graphic LCD display and another one for CARE FOR THE ENVIRONMENT The electronics of the new Numa series was designed with superficial mounting technology, in compliance with standard 2002/95/ CE concerning the Restriction of Hazardous Substances (RoHS) in electrical and electronic devices. Such restriction seeks to limit the use of substances which are hazardous to the environment such as lead, mercury, cadmium, chrome, PBB and PBDE. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2011 17 Products LAW ENFORCEMENT In Argentina, the use of approved fiscal controllers allows users to have a fast and intuitive way of performing commercial transactions pursuant to Tax Procedure Act No. 11683 (T.O. 1998). NUMA was approved by the Federal Administration of Public Revenue (Asociación Federal de Ingresos Públicos, AFIP) pursuant to Standard RG 259, according to General Resolution No. 2992/2010. Analytical and Laboratory Series With the aim of complementing This wide line of products is aimed and widening the range of at highly segmented markets such products offered, and thanks to the as pharmaceutical and medical knowledge of the market and the laboratories, food quality assurance, good reputation the company has agro-industry and industrial in the weighing sector, KRETZ S.A. processes in general, among others. has gained the representation of analytical and laboratory scales of the SHIMADZU CORPORATION from Japan. SAFETY All the products are certified by the Argentine Standards and Certification Institute (Instituto Argentino de Normalización y Certificación, IRAM) pursuant to Resolution No. 92/98 which states that all low-voltage electrical equipment commercialized in Argentina has to comply with essential safety requirements. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2011 18 Products FUTURE GENERATIONS The packaging of all KRETZ products is carried out with 100% recyclable material. In this way, the positive impact we intend to exert with our products at the commercial level, offering innovative solutions to our customers, combines with our care for the environment. From the design of our products and packaging to the choice of the materials used and the productive processes performed, we always intend to preserve the environment, which translates into an improvement of our quality of life and that of the future generations. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2011 19 Kretz In The World Countries where Kretz has operations INDUSTRIAL PLANT > Located on the Buenos AiresRosario Highway > 13 acre parcel with 92% forested area > 40,900 sq. ft. smart energy-efficient building > Waste-recycling program SANTA FE PROVINCE > 75% suppliers from the Province of Santa Fe > Participation in the Rosario Strategic Planning ARGENTINA > 1000 active customers > 45% market share > National network of distributors > Products approved by the Argentine state LATIN AMERICA > Growth rate of 315% > USD 33,000 value per exported ton > Leading exporter of Scales and Cash Registers in Argentina WORLD > Adherence to the United Nations Global Compact > ISO 9001 / ISO 14001 / OHSAS 18001 certifications > SAP/R3 Management System > International accounting audit (HORWATH) COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2011 20 Awards KRETZ S.A. has received the following awards, which encourage us to constantly seek new challenges. • “Honorable Mention to Competitiveness 2004”, granted by Fundación Mediterránea. • “Smoke-Free Company” recognition, granted by the Municipality of Rosario. • “Santa Fe Exports 2007” (Santa Fe Exporta 2007) award, granted by the Province of Santa Fe Administration. • Índice 2007 Award for “Technological Company of the Year ”. • Índice 2008 Award to the “Small and Medium-Sized Business of the Year (PYME del Año)” (both granted by the PuntoBiz specialist magazine, through the vote of companies from Rosario and the Central Region of the Country). • Company chosen by the UNDP (United Nations Development Program) as case study for the first edition of the publication entitled Contributions for Human Development (Aportes para el Desarrollo Humano) in Argentina. • 2011 FePI Recognition (Advertising Festival of the Interior) for “KRETZ Website” in the Interactive sector. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2011 21 Corporate Social Responsibility Report PART II COM COMMUNICATION OMMUN MUNICA ICATIO TION ON PROG N ON PPROGRESS ROGRESS 20 2011 011 011 1 Commitment How do we understand CSR at Kretz? In KRETZ, we believe that our Corporate Social Responsibility is part of a new conception of the company and society, promoted by the spread of good practices. The company is not seen as an isolated actor, but rather as being part of networks of cooperation and competence, trust and social capital with their sphere of influence. Thus, the company becomes a social change agent operating under the belief that the value of an action is not measured exclusively by its material results, but by its adherence to key principles such as social justice and human dignity. Furthermore, in KRETZ we believe that CSR responds to another concept regarding the development of societies. The development dilemma is precisely being able to make the economic efficiency, social equity and environmental balance merge into the right strategies and policies and complement one another. But this is only possible if we add a fourth dimension, Ethics. No development is possible unless it is based on the ethical conception that competitiveness is only valid if achieved with social and environmental responsibility. Thus, CSR is a constituent element of the company activity and not a collateral action. It is embedded in all its operation system to also assure that the customer understands it as a distinctive feature at the time of buying a product. We understand that this interpretation is clearly compatible with the Global Compact principles. Moreover, we are nurtured by these principles and they guide our actions. Thus, for some years, KRETZ has been carrying out a series of actions aimed at improving its relationships with all the stakeholders: employees, customers, suppliers, shareholders, users, the community where the company interacts, its institutions and governments. Those actions have developed into a Corporate Social Responsibility Policy, which arises from the company philosophy itself and enriches each one of the parties. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2011 23 Commitment CSR as company philosophy At KRETZ, we believe that the CSR is a way of building a company. The United Nations Global Compact principles guide our deepest strategies. We always aim our efforts towards the search of technological solutions. Over the past years, we have defined ourselves as an organization whose main mission is to help people run and manage their businesses. This means the human being should be considered as an axis around which all decisions are made. In that respect, we develop our work philosophy, which involves a way of understanding the design of our products, of organizing ourselves, of managing the company, and with the same logic, of planning the future. Guided by our company conception, we try to focus on the people interacting with the environment, the community surrounding them and the place they belong to. Thus, we can commit ourselves to sustainable actions which will improve the quality of life in our sphere of influence. Because CSR is not marketing or welfarism, it is a company philosophy. Our Vision “To be recognized internationally for designing innovative technological solutions, supported by the excellence of our people”. Our Mission “To help our customers run and manage their businesses”. Our Values KRETZ intends to foster an enjoyable working environment, openness in the face of change and, above all, commitment to the company, its goals and its people. Furthermore, we seek to maintain open communication channels to enhance this environment and to facilitate the flow of relevant information. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2011 24 Commitment The company strength is based on two cornerstones: Integrity and Leadership. From these core values derive the values or principles that rule our life: Integrity • Behaving ethically and responsibly • Encouraging and exercising solidarity and cooperation • Establishing new internal and external relations on the basis of trust, honesty and respect • Keeping our promises • Recognizing other people’s initiatives and achievements Leadership • Feeling involved with the company and its people • Committing to the company’s goals and objectives • Feeling the company as our own • Contributing our individual effort to achieve collective goals This model has been designed to meet the company’s specific needs, to increase its value and outcomes. It is also a key aspect for individual development, since it directs the efforts of employees toward the expected work performance. However, it also applies to all stakeholders: employees and their families, customers, suppliers, shareholders, users, the community where the company interacts, its representative institutions and administration, and the governments. This universe constitutes our “sphere of influence”. Logically, this influence prevails among the parties who are directly linked to the company operations, the workplace and the market, then, in the supply chain, weakening in our interaction with the community and its institutions and in our participation in public policies. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2011 25 Commitment Environment Community Shareholders Customers Employees and Families Suppliers Users and Consumers Society Environment CSR Through Our Products and Processes KRETZ CSR culture is evident from the first stages of our product design to the interaction experienced by the users and the impact the products have on the environment. Through our own design philosophy we have established a concept that guides the research and development of all the new products ad solutions. Our design philosophy is supported by a concept that helps to communicate the company spirit and be coherent in all the line of products. The leading idea is inspired by the human genome, which we consider the most representative and innovative scientific revolution of our times and marks the beginning of a new era, a new paradigm. Using it as inspiration for design, we seek to exceed the coldness inherent in the technological universe, providing a human element to our new line of products. Combining functionality and aesthetics, each product responds to an organic conception of technology, where the objects that surround us act as a projection COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2011 26 Commitment of the human body. Another of KRETZ main policies is the standardization of processes to ensure a constant level of customer satisfaction. To such aim, we are committed to management, quality, care for the environment and occupational safety to guarantee the sustainability of the organization and its stakeholders. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2011 27 Corporate Social Responsibility Report PART III COMMUN COMMUNICATION COMMUNICA C TIO ON ON ROG O PPROGRESS GR RESSS 2 2011 011 0 11 Kretz Csr Policy The KRETZ CSR Policy is based on three main cornerstones: • Quality, as the basis of the company competitiveness. • Knowledge, as the basis of ongoing innovation. • Commitment, as the basis of ethics, integrity and leadership. We believe that the combination of these three dimensions is the basis of our company responsibility: responsibility towards customers and consumers by providing them with quality products; responsibility towards progress by adding value through constant innovation; and responsibility towards stakeholders by performing our activity on the basis of values. Therefore, the goals of our CSR policy are: • To consolidate dependable relations within the company and between the company and stakeholders. • To encourage actions which include a wide scope of social, institutional and environmental goals (supplementary to the company financial goals) as key components of a comprehensive company model. • To promote education and innovation as key cornerstones to develop as a “knowledge-intensive” company. • To contribute to society’s overall cultural change, through the promotion and dissemination of technological and organizational excellence. In November 2007, KRETZ endorsed the United Nations Global Compact, a voluntary network of organizations, agencies, trade unions and nongovernmental organizations which embrace the 10 universal principles. These principles are based on the United Nations Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the International Labor Organization’s Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work, and the Rio Declaration on Environment and Development of the United Nations Environment Program, with the enrichment of the initiative participants themselves. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2011 29 CSR Programs in Kretz By endorsing the United Nations Global Compact, the company’s CSR Policy is mainstreamed and structured according to its principles, and it is materialized through 8 (eight) Programs which cover all the areas of operation of the company. The following chart outlines the company’s CSR programs and their link to the Global Compact Principles. GLOBAL COMPACT PRINCIPLES 1 KRETZ PROGRAMS 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 1 KRETZ CULTURE 1 2 DECENT EMPLOYMENT 3 INTEGRATED MANAGEMENT SYSTEM 1 4 INTENSIVE KNOWLEDGE AIN 5 SUSTAINABLE COMPANY 6 VALUES CHAIN 7 SERVICE EXCELLENCE 8 COMPANY, STATE AND COMMUNITY, Kretz Culture Sustainable Company Decent Employment Values Chain Integrated Management System M Service Excellence Intensive Knowledge K Company, State, Community COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2011 30 Activities Performed AThe following are the activities performed in each of the different programs. In each case, there is a description of the object of the program, the principles of the Global Compact with which it contributes, the starting date, the interest groups involved, the concrete actions performed during this period and the possible impacts that they can exert. Afterwards, the results obtained are shown through GRI (Global Reporting Initiatives) indicators. References EC: economic aspects EN: environment LA: labor practices HR: human rights SO: society PR: product responsibility The impact matrix generated by the 8 (eight) CSR Programs in our sphere of influence is presented. Finally, there is a presentation of those GRI indicators which do not have a direct association with the CSR Programs and a summary of all the indicators. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2011 31 Activities Performed K R E T Z C U LT U R E This program seeks to consolidate values and improve the social environment in the company. Its aim is to enjoy work and promote interaction. The KAIZEN philosophy was adopted as an instrument to favor integration and awareness of the importance of each person’s role in the organization. Thus, we align to principles 1, 2 and 10 of the Global Compact. Starting date: 2004 2011 CSR Kaizen Interest groups involved: shareholders, employees, suppliers, customers, employee’s family members and local community. Actions: In August, on the occasion of friendship day, we organized an afternoon snack with all the people who make up the company and we exchanged presents as part of the “invisible friend” game. The aim of the event was to devote time to reflect upon the other person by exploring their preferences or inquiring about Workers from the Administration and Finance department them, situation which enables us to know each other better. Family Day was celebrated on 6th. November, when all the people related to the company and their families spent an enjoyable recreational day at the industrial plant. This enables people to know the company, the workplace and the other people’s families better. A musical band made up of employees played some music and there were recreational activities and games for the little ones. 232 people attended this party. Quality Award 2010 In December, we celebrated the 47th birthday of the company. We organized a costume party and a snack. We invited suppliers and external counselors. In the month of November 2010, we closed the second series of the KRETZ Quality Award. In the company, we have adopted a work methodology based on the KAIZEN philosophy (KAI= change, ZEN= good), which we understand as ongoing improvement through teamwork. The aim of the award it to give COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2011 32 Activities Performed relevance and spread the KAIZEN philosophy. In this opportunity there were 4 teams made up of 5 people and an instructor each. The members came from different areas, one of the teams was made up of employees from the KRETZ offices in Guadalajara, Mexico. Each group presented their improvement proposal, related either to quality or cost reduction, which they elaborated throughout the year, always during the working hours. A jury chooses the best proposal, which is granted the award and implemented, although generally, all of them end up being put into practice. Furthermore, the KAIZEN philosophy proposes that once the work is Family Day 2010 finished and the aim is achieved, the group can be dissolved. In March 2011, the CSR KAIZEN, made up of 12 people, was renewed. We believe that, as the CSR is not a company department with a manager and a budget, but rather a conception transversal to the organization, the ideal work methodology for its management is the KAIZEN philosophy. The teams are renewed annually and they are made up of people from different areas in the company. Thus, it is easier to transfer and handle concerns and Family Day 2010 initiatives that arise from the members of the organization. Furthermore, this allows every person to participate at a given time, which in the long run will make the company behave as a single KAIZEN and all the people will be able to live according to the CSR expectations. Possible Impacts: • Integration of families to the work field. • Comprehensive understanding of the organization’s operation. End-of-Year Party 2010 • Spread of the Global Compact principles LEVEL OF RELEVANT GRI INDICATORS KRETZ INTERNAL INDICATOR 10th July 11th July INTERNAL ACCEPTANCE LA6 Percentage of the total 9,50% 6,59% workforce represented by formal joint management-worker health and safety committees that help monitor and advise on occupational health and safety programs. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2011 33 Activities Performed DECENT EMPLOYMENT Starting date: 2004 Interest groups involved: shareholders, staff, suppliers and customers. Decent Employment is a program aimed at promoting working conditions within the company that create a decent and stimulating work environment, promote access to information and freedom of association, and guarantee worker’s health and safety. At KRETZ we are convinced that quality in the workplace translates into quality at the level of products as well as all the organization. Maternity Leave With this program, we endorse principles 1, 3, 4, 5 and 6 of the Global Compact. Actions: Pursuant to Provincial Law 12,913, a Health, Hygiene and Working Safety Committee was formed. Furthermore, we count on ongoing counseling on this matter, as we seek to preserve our workers’ health. Immunization Campaign With the same objective in mind, we have decided to hire a catering service that looks into the key features of good nutrition: complete, varied, sufficient and balanced. All aspects of foods are controlled to ensure they provide the necessary nutrients and are low in fat, cholesterol and sodium. Nutrition at work is a shared responsibility. Our duty is to encourage a change of bad eating habits and to offer easy access to healthy food. In June 2011, we conducted another flu immunization campaign. We continue to grant extended maternity and paternity leaves. The company offers transport service to the industrial plant in Pueblo Esther for all the staff. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2011 34 Activities Performed Possible Impacts: • Improvement in people’s health • Reduced absentism LEVEL OF RELEVANT GRI INDICATORS KRETZ INTERNAL INDICATOR 10th July 11th July INTERNAL ACCEPTANCE LA4 Percentage of employees covered Employees under agreement over the by collective bargaining agreement. total number of employees 42,11% 43,33% LA8 Current education, training, Work garments and uniforms orientation, prevention and risk-control $ 52.873 $ 13.501 programs to assist the staff, their families or members of the community Staff transportation regarding serious diseases $ 416.353 $ 348.331 Implementation of ergonomic elements $ 7.343 0 Food provision to staff $ 308.000 $ 390.393 LA5 Minimum notice period regarding Minimum notice period(s) regarding operational changes, including whether operational changes, including whether they are specified in the collective they are specified in the collective 2 months 2 months bargaining agreements. bargaining agreements. LA7 Work-related injuries and illnesses, Lost days lost days and absenteeism and total 8 58 number of work-related fatal victims, by region Minor accidents 2 2 Serious accidents 0 0 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2011 35 Activities Performed I N T E G R AT E D M A N A G E M E N T S Y S T E M M Starting date: 2004 Interest groups involved: senior management, employees, external counselors, official regulatory and control agencies, suppliers, customers. It is a program that seeks to create the necessary conditions for continuous improvement in the productive, managerial, organizational and relational processes within the company. Thus, the company complies mainly with principles 4 to 10 of the Global Compact. Arrangement of workstations Actions: The SILOG (Systematization and Logics) project, which defines the procedure for the development of new products, was carried out as part of an improvement in the area of technology. It proposes the participation of all areas of the company and the organization of a specific KAIZEN. The project outlines the different developmental stages, decision-making and documentation, as well as the cost and time controls and the scope of the project. Mural with Certifications Once the SILOG is finished, it will be used as a model to replicate it in the remaining areas of the company. We have started a plan to integrate the Integrated Management System (Sistema Integrado de Gestión, SIG) to the computer system that links all the company activities (SAP). We have started a systematic review and organization of all the SIG documentation. The ISO 9001, ISO 14001 and OHSAS 18001 certifications were maintained, and audits and metrologic quality controls were carried out by the INTI while electrical safety controls were carried out by the IRAM. The internal training and audits plan continued to be carried out as usual. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2011 36 Activities Performed INTEGRATED MANAGEMENT SYSTEM – COMMITMENTS UNDERTAKEN Standard or legal Certification Authority Subject Detail instrument ISO 9001:2000 Bureau Veritas Quality Management It grants national and international System recognition by reducing complaints and claims through process standardization and continuous improvement. International ISO 14001:2004 Bureau Veritas Environmental It optimizes processes and identifies any Management System potential environmental impact through preventive decision-making and the integration of staff in a common project of environmental care. It facilitates proper waste management. OSHAS 18001:2007 Bureau Veritas Occupational Health It minimizes risk for employees, facilities and Safety Management and others. System Provides greater compliance control with legal requirements. GLOBAL COMPACT United Nations Corporate Social It generates and spreads an ethical Responsibility and commitment ensuring legal compliance Commitment to Fight for all stakeholders worldwide. Against Corruption RN 92/98 IRAM Electrical Safety by It includes all the company products. Trademark Every product undergoes an electrical safety obligatory control and can only be National sold if they are approved. DN 788/03 INTI Product Certification All the weighing equipment must undergo a series of metrology tests stipulated by the Industry and Commerce Department. Possible Impacts: • Quality improvement of the production processes, which results in the quality improvement of the final product • Commitment to people’s health and safety LEVEL OF RELEVANT GRI INDICATORS KRETZ INTERNAL INDICATOR 10th July 11th July INTERNAL ACCEPTANCE LA 12Percentage of employees who are periodically assessed in terms of perfor0 100% mance and professional development. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2011 37 Activities Performed INTENSIVE KNOWLEDGE K Training sessions at Industrial Plant Starting date: 2005 Interest groups involved: senior management, employees, and educational institutions. Training gives our staff the opportunity of acquiring higher knowledge, abilities and skills, which improve their performance and allow them to be successful at work and in life. This program aims at consolidating a company based on knowledge and innovation as a competitive variable, and it allows us to comply with principles 1 and 9 of the Global Compact. Actions: In October and November 2012, we offered training on defensive driving techniques for people who move around by car and for our transport service drivers. There were two training levels: basic and advanced. All the staff were given performance evaluations. We continued offering induction training on Culture, Safety and Hygiene at Work, Integrated Management System and 5S. We also continued offering training for SIG internal auditors. Besides, we granted 90-day special leaves to two women employees. In one of the cases, the leave was granted for the employee to pursue postgraduate studies abroad, in the other, for the employee to get her first degree. To guarantee the correct use of the defibrillator located at the Pueblo Esther plant, we offered further training on its use. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2011 38 Activities Performed Lastly, we started a round of English-immersion lunches to reinforce the command of this language. Possible Impacts: • Reduced absenteeism • Reduced staff turnover • Improvement of the person’s knowledge • Reduced accident rate • People’s change of attitudes and behavior • Increased professional development and employability LEVEL OF RELEVANT GRI INDICATORS KRETZ INTERNAL INDICATOR 10th July 11th July INTERNAL ACCEPTANCE LA 10 Average hours of training per Average hours of training per year year and per person 14,12 19 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2011 39 Activities Performed S U S TA I N A B L E C O M PA N Y Starting date: 2004 This program aims at promoting a culture of environmental responsibility, fostering education and awareness, as well as managing the impact on the environment and life cycle of products since their design. We seek to meet the needs of our customers without compromising the Waste classification welfare of future generations. Thus, we align to principles 7, 8 and 9 of the Global Compact. Actions: This year’s greatest challenge is to start exploring the possibility of using nonpolluting alternative energy sources. Therefore, in January 2011 we started working on the construction of a 1,000 Watts air generator. We set up a 12-people KAIZEN work team and the project keeps moving forward. Wind Power Project On the other hand, we continue with the recycling of waste (classification and recycling of aluminum, stainless steel, carbon steel, copper, plastics, paper and cardboard) and the recycling of batteries, the hazardous waste destruction campaign and the sterilization of pathogenic waste. Our paper-use reduction policy is still valid through the digitalization of documents. Besides, within the company’s forestation plan which was started in 2004, we Visitors Planting Treess planted 64 new trees of different species. We also planted yerba mate and tea which a customer from Misiones gave us as a present. Possible Impacts: • Foster environmental awareness • Energy saving • Reduction of environmental pollution Irrigation of Industrial Plant Park COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2011 40 Activities Performed LEVEL OF RELEVANT GRI INDICATORS KRETZ INTERNAL INDICATOR 10th July 11th July INTERNAL ACCEPTANCE EN1 Materials used by weight or Aluminium volume (Kg). 37103 30717 Cardboard 30651 27069 Plastic 38732 35117 Electronics 63417 56651 EN2 Percentage of recycled materials Cardboard used as supplies. 735 572 Plastic 60 85 Metals 109 0 Hazardous waste 2 8 Batteries 11 5 EN3 Direct energy consumption from Direct energy consumption from primary primary source. source. S/D S/D EN4 Indirect energy consumption from Indirect energy consumption from primary source. primary source. S/D S/D EN5 Energy saved due to Electric power improvements in conservation and 0 0 efficiency. EN8 Total water withdrawal, by Total water withdrawal 900m / 900m / sources. year(Approx) year(Approx) EN11 Location and size of land Location and size of land owned, leased, owned, leased, operated, or adjacent to operated, or adjacent to protected protected areas as well to other areas of areas as well to other areas of high S/D S/D high biodiversity value. biodiversity value. EN12 Description of significant impacts Description of significant impacts of of activities, products and services on activities, products and services on biodiversity in both protected areas and biodiversity in both protected areas and S/D S/D in other areas of high biodiversity value in other areas of high biodiversity value EN14 Percentage of forestation 92% 92% EN16 Total direct and indirect Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas greenhouse gas emissions, by weight. emissions, by weight. S/D S/D COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2011 41 Activities Performed EN17 Other indirect greenhouse gas Other indirect greenhouse gas emissions, by weight. emissions, by weight. S/D S/D EN19 Emissions of substances that Emissions of substances that damage the damage the ozone layer, by weight. ozone layer, by weight. S/D S/D EN20 NOx, SOx and other significant NO, SO and other significant emissions emissions that affect the air, by type and that affect the air, by type and weight. S/D S/D weight. EN21 Total wastewater discharge, by Total wastewater discharge, by nature nature and destination. and destination. S/D S/D EN22 Urban solid waste (Kg per year) 7200 Kg/year 7200 Kg/year EN23 Total number and volume of the Total number and volume of the most most significant spills. significant spills. S/D S/D EN26 Initiatives to mitigate Initiatives to mitigate environmental environmental impact of products and impact of products and services, and S/D S/D services, and degree of reduction of that degree of reduction of that impact. impact. EN27 Percentage of products sold, Percentage of products sold, and and its packaging materials which are its packaging materials which are S/D S/D recovered at the end of their shelf-life, recovered at the end of their shelf-life, by product categories. by products categories. EN28 Monetary value of significant Monetary value of significant fines and fines and total number of non-monetary total number of non-monetary sanctions sanctions due to infringements of due to infringements of environmental 0 0 environmental laws and regulations. laws and regulations. EN30 Total environmental protection Green spaces expenditure and investments, by type. $ 4.905 $ 4.580,61 Waste classification $ 1.315 $ 428,33 Waste collection $ 519 $ 669,24 Hazardous waste destruction $ 243 $ 120,91 Chemical and bacteriological analysis of the water $0 $ 57,50 Sterilization of pathogenic waste $ 318 $ 132,38 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2011 42 Activities Performed VALUES CHAIN Starting date: 2005 Interest groups involved: Senior management, suppliers, customers, shareholders. Sharing our values with the people who come into contact with our business is something we consider of vital importance. The program is intended to spread the CSR values and the Global Compact principles across the company’s supply chain. Adoratrices School Visit Thus, this program promotes the 10 principles of the Global Compact. Actions: In this period, we organized meetings, visits and audits to suppliers. Taking into account different aspects, we assess the commitment, responsibility and likelihood that the suppliers, or prospective suppliers, assume in relation to their activities. Visit of the Provincial Electricity Supply Company (EPE) The auditor inquires into the commitment the supplier assumes towards the protection of the environment and the actions taken, in case the activities performed exert a high environmental impact. We apply an industrial plant Admission Policy for suppliers and contractors, which states that each company which needs to send staff members to perform services inside KRETZ should submit, among other things, AFIP Form 931 (Integrated System of Retirement and Pensions), two days in advance, with the appropriate proof of payment and pay statement. This implies a clear Children’s Library commitment to fight against unregistered employment. As regards recreational activities, soccer matches were held in our plant’s soccer field with other nearby institutions. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2011 43 Activities Performed In August we opened the children’s library with the motto “a child who reads Day on Mum/Dad’s Work is an adult who thinks”, and we gave the children a small collection of classic tales which will serve as the basis for their home library. Employees’ children aged between 5 and 12 years old participated in the contest “Dad/Mum’s work”. They were required to draw a picture and the finalists were to visit the plant together with their parents, school peers and teachers. For this visit, a supermarket was simulated, where the children were able to use the equipment operated in real stores. The spreading of the Global Compact principles among the stakeholders also forms part of this program. We give institutional presents and the last submitted progress report to all the guests we receive. We received visits from schools, institutions and universities with different levels of education and personal interests. We conducted guided tours of the plant, oriented and adapted depending on the circumstances. We have started a plan aimed at encouraging the students who come to visit us plant a tree. Possible Impacts: • Increased dissemination of the Global Compact • Environmental awareness • Human rights policy shared with suppliers • People’s change of attitudes and behavior • Children being encouraged to read Internal Integration Day, World Cup 2010. LEVEL OF RELEVANT GRI INDICATORS KRETZ INTERNAL INDICATOR 10th July Jul-11 INTERNAL ACCEPTANCE HR2 Percentage of important suppliers Visits to suppliers and contractors that have undergone 45 visits and 3 95 visits and 25 screening on human rights and actions audits audits taken COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2011 44 Activities Performed SERVICE EXCELLENCE Starting date: 2007 Initiators and people accountable for service excellence: Eemployees, customers, consumers and suppliers. Service excellence is one of our main commitments, and this program is intended to establish criteria and actions that foster excellence in customer Food International Fair (FIAR) 2011, Rosario, Argentina and consumer service. Thus, we adhere to the 10 principles of the Global Compact. Actions: During this period, KRETZ participated in different national and international fairs with the aim of enhancing its contact with customers and consumers. En August 2010, we exhibited our products at the International Food and Launching of NUMA, April 2011, Beverages Exhibition (Salón Internacional de Alimentación en Latinoamérica, Rosario, Argentina SIAL) held in Buenos Aires. In April 2011, we participated in Rosario Food International Fair (Feria Internacional de la Alimentación Rosario, FIAR), which gathered about 25,000 attendees. In this series, we were accompanied by Chef Donato de Santis, who made a demonstration of our networked products. Within the framework of this fair, we also launched our cash register NUMA, which increases our portfolio of customers. One hundred and fifty people attended the event, including customers, suppliers, authorities, employees and institutional contacts. The ANTAD Fair 2011, Guadalajara, Mexico fair was also attended by distributors from Paraguay, Uruguay, Bolivia, Peru, Ecuador, Costa Rica, Mexico, Guatemala and Colombia. We increased our participation in International fairs, such as EXPOCRUZ (Bolivia) from 16th to 26th September 2010, the Bogota International Fair (Colombia) from 3rd to 10th October 2010, the Paraguayan Supermarket Fair (Paraguay) on 20th and 21st October 2010, Santa Fe Expone (Uruguay) from 10th to 19th December 2010, ANTAD (Mexico) in March 2011, EXPO COCHABAMBA (Bolivia) on 5th and 6th May 2011, and the First Cheese and Dairy Products Donato de Santis Event, FIAR 2011, Festival (Mexico) on 6th, 7th and 8th May. Rosario, Argentina COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2011 45 Activities Performed Considering the proximity of our customers in our sphere of influence, we developed an after-sales service which includes a large network of technical services throughout the country, as well as another significant number in the countries where we operate. We also implemented a telephone technical support service, 7/24, called “The Tireless” to give advice on the installation and operation of KRETZ products. We continue with the training plan for official technical services and distributors SIAL ASU Fair 2010, Buenos Aires, Argentina on our products offer. Possible Impacts: • Customer satisfaction • Recognition of our products in the international market. LEVEL OF RELEVANT GRI INDICATORS KRETZ INTERNAL INDICATOR 10th July 11th July INTERNAL ACCEPTANCE PR5 Practices related to customer Customer satisfaction average weighted satisfaction, including the results of index S/D 9,3 sobre 10 surveys measuring customer satisfaction. Market research investment $ 14.000,00 $ 0,00 Decrease in delivery time Decrease of 10% 0 PR7 Total number of incidents of nonTotal number of incidents of noncompliance with regulations concerning compliance with regulations and marketing communications, including voluntary codes concerning marketing advertising, promotion, and sponsorship communications, including advertising, by type of outcome of those incidents. promotion, and sponsorship by type of outcome. 0 1 PR8 Total number of substantiated Total number of substantiated complaints regarding breaches of complaints, regarding breaches of customer privacy and disclosure of customer privacy and losses of customer customer personal data. data. 0 0 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2011 46 Activities Performed C O M P A N Y, S T A T E A N D C O M M U N I T Y Inauguration of Connections Center V+ Starting date: 2004 Interest groups involved: Shareholders, employees, suppliers, customers, institutions, governments and community. It is a program that seeks to promote a good relationship with the community and to encourage voluntary work, action and social initiatives. It is designed to build partnerships with institutions and governments to foster development. The promotion of intergenerational solidarity is one of the key elements used to face the challenge of having an increasing ratio of population. Thus, we intend to adhere to the 10 principles of the Global Compact. Actions: When, at KRETZ, we decided to strengthen the bonds with the academic world, especially the National University of Rosario (Universidad Nacional de Rosario, UNR), the creation of a connection center was the most desired project. On 22nd March 2011, this dream came true with the opening of the Center for the Companies-University Connection V+. It is a space open to the academic world and to all the companies, especially those within the region, which operates in the building given by the company to the University in July 2010. The aim of the Center V+ is to promote and encourage relations and activities that: • drive innovations or the acquisition of new knowledge, • help to build skills in companies and develop competencies in people, • complement scientific learning with learning based on experience. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2011 47 Activities Performed Mister Bernardo Kosacoff, Ex-Director of the Economic Commission for Latin America (Comisión Económica Para América Latina, CEPAL), was in charge of the formal start of activities and offered a lecture on the “Economic Development and Perspectives of the Argentine Economy”. On July 23rd 2010, together with the leading authorities of the University, our plant in Pueblo Esther witnessed the launching and start of the course on Specialization in the Management of Innovation and Technological Connection GTEC. The GTEC Centro-Este program is the result of a Consortium made up by the University of Entre Rios (Universidad Nacional de Entre Ríos, UNER), the National University of the Northeast of the Province of Buenos Aires (Universidad Visit of International Customers to Industrial Plant Nacional del Noroeste de la Provincia de Buenos Aires, UNNOBA), the National University of Rosario (UNR) and the National University of Technology (Universidad Tecnológica Nacional, UTN) together with their Regional Schools in Rosario, San Nicolás and Venado Tuerto. Other companies, institutions and local governments of the provinces of Santa Fe, Entre Ríos and Buenos Aires also adhere to the program. At present, classes corresponding to the career of GTEC are held at the Center V+. GTEC Postgraduate Conference at As part of this initiative, in August 2010, the International Seminar on Industrial Plant Biotechnology (Seminario Internacional de Biotecnología) was held, within the framework of the Argentine Association of Producers using Direct Sowing Methods (Asociación Argentina de Productores en Siembra Directa, AAPRESID) Congress 2010. All the students of this career attended as special guests. Following the chat at the conference, a private meeting was held with Germán Spangenberg, Director of the Institute of Sustainable Production of Victoria’s Crops (Instituto de Producción sustentable de Cultivos de Victoria) (Australia). In June 2011, we visited the Regional Center of the National Institute for Agricultural Technology (Instituto Nacional de Tecnología Agropecuaria, INTA), Pergamino and the industrial plant of the Rizobacter company. We have planned a visit to INDEAR’s plant, as well as to Rosario Stock Exchange COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2011 48 Activities Performed laboratory facilities for September. GTEC students are engaged in all these activities; two of them being part of KRETZ, as well as authorities and people who belong to our sphere of influence. The aim is to achieve a wider and deeper vision of our productive and territorial reality. In August 2010, we participated in the solidarity crusade “Helping Makes us Great”, an initiative organized for Children’s Day with the children attending Martin Jacobo Thompson School No. 45, located on the Charihue island, opposite Rosario. That school was rebuilt after experiencing important floods. A fellow worker’s daughter raised the idea, and we could collect 7 cubic meters of non-perishable food, clothes and shoes in excellent condition. Donation of scales to San José School, Rosario. In April 2011, we donated a scale to the “Gastronomy Workshop” offered at San José School. This Workshop is aimed at low-income youngsters, some of them being street children. In June 2011, we agreed to work together with the “Red Solidaria Rosario” (Solidarity Network of Rosario), an independent organization in charge of meeting the needs of the homeless. We organized a fundraising campaign and went out together to distribute instant soup, cookies, hot coffee, mate cocido, and chocolate. Donation of scales to Fundación Dulce de Leche, Rosario. In July 2011, we organized a “Football Pool” with the matches played during the 43rd series of the Copa América ARGENTINA 2011. All the money collected was given to a female fellow worker whose 2-year-old son had to undergo an operation of high complexity. Another activity performed in July was the donation of a scale to the “Fundación Dulce de Leche”, which is in charge of assisting and helping children with overweight problems. This organization is located in the city of Orán, in the province of Salta. Also, in March 2011, a framework agreement was signed with the Faculty of Exact Sciences, Engineering and Land Surveying at the National University of Rosario for new internships. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2011 49 Activities Performed A similar agreement was signed with the Universidad del Centro Educativo Latinoamericano after the inclusion of an intern for the Administration and Finances department. Through the voluntary work of people from KRETZ, who recovered an abandoned piece of land in the center of Pueblo Esther where the industrial plant is located, it was possible to open the Escuela de Arte y Oficios (School of Arts and Crafts) in 2009. Today, this school has become a true training and cultural center with activities planned for all the days and times of the week. Arts and Crafts School In particular, it offers courses on electric welding, electricity, bricklaying, painting, turnery and leather goods, which were attended by 118 students who left with a graduate diploma. There are also workshops on plastic arts, dressmaking, drama, homemade cooking, and female aesthetics. More than 100 students have attended these workshops. It’s worth noting that the school institutionally depends on the commune of Pueblo Esther. Possible Impacts: • Promoting solidarity, voluntary work • Fostering education • Career development • Crafts training for the community COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2011 50 Impact Matrix Performance Of Culture Of The The Organization Organization M Impact On The Organization K External Impact On Stakeholders In order to link the commitments made to the programs implemented and the business relevance of the Global Compact principles, we have developed this matrix, which combines, on the one hand, the impact of the actions exerted both on the organization and on the stakeholders, and on the other hand, the impact exerted on the performance or culture of the organization and/or stakeholders. Thus, the matrix developed reflects every CSR program regarding how each of them contributes to make ongoing performance improvements within the company and between the company and its value chain, and how each program contributes to the promotion of values and a new concept of business ethics in the community. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2011 51 GRI Indicators with No Direct Association to CSR Programs RELEVANT GRI LEVEL OF INTERNAL KRETZ INTERNAL INDICATOR 10th july 11th july INDICATORS ACCEPTANCE Direct economic value generated and distributed, including incomes, operating costs, payments to employees, donations EC1 S/D S/D and other investments in the community, retained earnings and payments to capital suppliers and governments. Financial consequences and other risks EC2 and opportunities for the organization’s S/D S/D activities due to climate change. Coverage of obligations of the EC3 organization due to social benefit S/D S/D programs. Significant financial aid received from the EC4 government. S/D 1738221,46 Procedures for local hiring and proportion of senior managers from the local EC7 S/D 0 community in places where significant operations are carried out. Development and impact of investments in infrastructures and services rendered 2 years of operation of EC8 mainly for public benefit through S/D the School of Crafts from commercial commitments, pro bono or in P. Esther kind. Types of information on products and services required by the applicable PR3 procedures and regulations, and S/D S/D percentage of products and services subject to those information requirements. Programs of compliance with laws or adherence to standards and voluntary codes mentioned in marketing PR6 S/D S/D communications, including advertising, other promotional activities and sponsorships. Nature, scope and effectiveness of programs and practices for evaluating SO1 and managing impacts of operations on S/D S/D communities, including entry, operation and exit from the company. Description of significant impacts of activities, products and services on EN12 biodiversity in protected areas and in other S/D S/D areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas. Percentage and total number of significant investment agreements, including human HR1 S/D 0 rights clauses or which have been analyzed in terms of human rights. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2011 52 GRI Indicators with No Direct Association to CSR Programs Company activities in which freedom of association and participation in collective HR5 bargaining may be exposed to important S/D 0 risks and measures adopted to support those rights. Identified activities that pose a potential HR6 risk for child labor exploitation, and S/D 0 measures adopted to eradicate them. Operations identified as posing a high risk of leading to episodes of forced or nonHR7 S/D 0 consented labor, and measures adopted to help eradicate them. Percentage of employees trained on antiSO3 corruption policies and procedures in the S/D 0 organization. Actions taken in response to corruption SO4 incidents. S/D S/D Total number of events registering non-compliance of regulations and voluntary codes related to marketing PR7 0 0 communications, including advertising, promotion and sponsorship, by type of result. Total number of substantiated complaints, PR8 regarding breaches of customer privacy 0 0 and losses of customer data. Total number of incidents of discrimination HR4 and actions taken. 0 0 Total number of incidents of noncompliance with regulations and voluntary PR4 codes concerning product and service 0 0 information and labeling, by type of outcome. Late submission of tax returns SO8 (fines in pesos). 200 400 Participation in chambers of commerce. SO5 10 7 Monetary value of any significant fines for non-compliance with regulations PR9 0 0 concerning the provision and use of products and services. Percentage and total number of business SO2 units analyzed with respect to risks of S/D 0 corruption. Total value of financial and in-kind contributions made to political parties, SO6 0 0 politicians and related institutions, by country. Percentage of locally-based suppliers EC6 compared to internationally-based 88% 77,72% suppliers. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2011 53 GRI Indicators with No Direct Association to CSR Programs Rate of employee turnover. LA2 0,48 0,48 Percentage of women Management per position. 50% 50,00% Administration and Finance 45% 33,33% Trade 11% 15,38% Purchase 17% 20,00% Quality 25% 0,00% LA13 Manufacturing 8% 13,79% After-sales Service 0,00% 0,00% R&D 8% 8% IT 50% 50,00% Maintenance 0,00% 0,00% Ratio men-women Management wages. 1,22 1,22 Administration and Finance 1,40 1,7 Trade 1,23 2,8 Purchase 0,86 1,24 Quality 0,80 S/D LA14 Manufacture 0 S/D After-sales Service 0 S/D R&D 1,31 S/D TI 0,79 0,82 Maintenance 0 S/D COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2011 54 GRI Indicators with No Direct Association to CSR Programs Average range of ratios of standard entry Average: 1,85 Average: 1,98 EC5 level wage for direct staff members. Minimum : 1,43 Minimum: 1,39 Maximum:2,10 Maximum:2,56 Total workforce by employment type, employment contract and region. 97 90 LA1 Total By employment type and employment workforce by contract. 43/54 39/51 employment Bargaining employees / Non-bargaining type, employment employees contract and region. and by Region 95/2/0 87/2/2 Rosario + P Esther / Rest of the country / Mexico. Legal actions identified by antiSO7 competitive, anti-monopolistic behavior, 0 0 and monopolic practices. Percentage of employees trained on antiSO3 corruption policies and procedures in the 0 0 organization. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2011 55 Summary Of Indicators Economic Performance Direct economic value generated and distributed, including incomes, operating costs, payments to employees, donations and other investments EC1 52 in the community, retained earnings and payments to capital suppliers and governments. Financial consequences and other risks and opportunities for the EC2 organization’s activities due to climate change. 52 Coverage of the organization’s liabilities for social benefit programs. EC3 52 Significant financial aid received from governments. EC4 52 Range of ratios of standard entry-level wage compared to local minimum EC5 wage at places where significant operations are being carried out. 55 Policy, practices and proportion of spending corresponding to local EC6 suppliers in places where significant operations are carried out. 53 Procedures for local hiring and proportion of senior managers from the EC7 local community in places where significant operations are carried out. 52 Development and impact of investments in infrastructures and services EC8 rendered mainly for public benefit through commercial commitments, pro 52 bono or in kind. Environmental Performance Materials used, by weight and volume. EN1 41 Percentage of recycled materials used as supplies. EN2 41 Direct energy consumption from primary source. EN3 41 Indirect Energy consumption from primary source. EN4 41 Energy saved due to improvements in conservation and efficiency. EN5 41 Total water withdrawal, by source. EN8 41 Location and size of land owned, leased, exploited or adjacent either to EN11 protected areas or areas of high value due to its biodiversity. 41 Description of significant impacts of activities, products and services on EN12 biodiversity in protected areas and in other areas of high biodiversity value 41 outside protected areas. Strategies, current actions and future plans for managing impacts on EN14 biodiversity. 41 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions, by weight. EN16 41 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2011 56 Summary Of Indicators Other indirect greenhouse gas emissions, by weight. EN17 42 Emissions of substances that damage the ozone layer, by weight. EN19 42 NOx, SOx emissions and other significant emissions that affect the air, by EN20 type and weight. 42 Total water discharge, by quality and destination. EN21 42 Total weight of waste, by type and disposal method. 42 EN22 Total number and volume of significant spills. EN23 42 Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of products and services, and EN26 extent of impact mitigation. 42 Percentage of products sold and their packaging materials that are EN27 recovered, by category. 42 Monetary value of any significant fines and total number of non-monetary EN28 sanctions for non-compliance of environmental laws and regulations. 42 Total environmental expenditures and investments, by type. EN30 42 Responsibility for Products Performance Type of information on products and services required by the procedures, PR3 and percentage of significant products and services subject to those 52 information requirements. Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and PR4 voluntary codes concerning product and service information and labeling, 53 by type of outcome. Information requirements. Practices related to customer satisfaction, including the results of customer PR5 satisfaction surveys. 46 Programs of compliance with laws or adherence to standards and PR6 voluntary codes mentioned in marketing communications, including 52 advertising, other promotional activities and sponsorships. Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations concerning PR7 marketing communications, including advertising, promotion, and 46 sponsorship by type of outcome of those incidents. Total number of substantiated complaints regarding breaches of customer PR8 privacy and losses of customer data. 46 ; 53 Cost of those significant fines due to non-compliance with the norm PR9 in relation to the provision and use of the organization’s products and 53 services. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2011 57 Summary Of Indicators Human Rights Performance Percentage and total number of significant investment agreements, HR1 including human rights clauses or which have been analyzed in terms of 52 human rights. Percentage of important suppliers and contractors that have undergone HR2 screening on human rights and actions taken. 44 Total number of incidents of discrimination and actions taken. HR4 53 Operations in which the right to freedom of association and to celebrate HR5 collective bargaining agreements represents a significant risk, and actions 53 to support those rights. Operations in which there is a significant risk of child labor incidents, and HR6 measures to help eradicate it. 53 Operations in which there is a significant risk of forced or compulsory work HR7 incidents, and measures to help eradicate this form of work. 53 Labor practices and ethics performance within the workplace Total workforce by employment type, employment contract, and region. LA1 55 Total number and rate of employee turnover by age group, gender, and LA2 region. 54 Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements. LA4 35 Minimum notice period(s) regarding operational changes, including LA5 whether they are specified in the collective bargaining agreements. 35 Percentage of total workforce represented by formal joint managementLA6 worker health and safety committees that help monitor and advise on 33 occupational health and safety programs. Rates of work-related injuries and illnesses, lost days and absenteeism and LA7 total number of work-related fatal victims, by region. 35 Current education, training, orientation, prevention and risk-control LA8 programs to assist the staff, their families or members of the community 35 regarding serious diseases. Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade unions. LA9 S/D Average hours of training per year per employee by employee category. LA10 39 Percentage of employees who are periodically assessed in terms of LA12 performance and professional development. 37 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per LA13 category according to gender, age group, minority group membership, and 54 other indicators of diversity. Ratio of basic salary of men to women by employee category. LA14 54 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2011 58 Summary Of Indicators Social performance Nature, scope and effectiveness of programs and practices for evaluating SO1 and managing impacts of operations on communities, including admission, 52 operation and exit from the company. Percentage and total number of business units analyzed with respect to SO2 risks of corruption. 53 Percentage of employees trained on anti-corruption policies and SO3 procedures in the organization. 53 ; 55 Actions taken in response to corruption incidents. SO4 53 Public policy positions and participation in public policy development and SO5 lobbying. 53 Total value of financial an in-kind contributions to political parties, SO6 politicians, and related institutions by country. 53 Total number of legal actions for anti-competitive behavior and monopoly SO7 practices, and their outcomes. 55 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary SO8 sanctions for non-compliance with laws and regulations. 53 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2011 59 IPAI0312
