CS GARMENT, INC. UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS (COP) 2011  HUMAN RIGHTS 1. Business should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. SA8000 Certification CS Garment, Inc. has very strong respect for human rights. It has put its heart and resources in making sure that all its policies and programs are aligned with the principles of UN Global Compact. Aside from the UN Global Compact and Code of Conduct, CSGI add more value to its social advocacy by submitting itself to an internal social audit called SA8000. On 27 December 2011, CS Garment, Inc. passed the Social Accountability 8000 (SA8000:2008) Certification audit conducted by TUV Rheinland. CSGI SA8000 Management System is the company’s commitment to manufacture and deliver high quality products in accordance with the recognized set of standards based on the concept of environmental and social accountability. To have legal compliance with all applicable national and international laws, CSGI adheres on the Code of Conduct affirmed by International Labor Organization, Universal Declaration of Human Rights and UN Convention on the Right of a Child. The Company is responsible for the full implementation of SA8000 Policy by ensuring that it is clearly understood by all concerned persons in the organization. The company shall communicate to all interested parties with matters relating to SA8000 through Policy Implementation and Development, Management Review, Employees Committee and Open Communication. This Policy shall provide the company with a system of continuous enhancement. SA8000 internal and external assessment will be periodically conducted to strengthen the company’s endeavor in the worlds of garment industry with SA8000 and to inspire other institutions to consider the best social impact of our corporate activities and policies. Social Accountability (SA) 8000 Requirement includes the following: 1. Prohibition of Child Labour 2. Prohibition of Forced and Compulsory Labour 3. Health and Safety in the Workplace 4. Respect the Right of Freedom of Association and Right to Collective Bargaining 5. No Discrimination (in hiring, remuneration, training, promotion, termination, retirement, etc.) CS GARMENT, INC. UN Global Compact COP 2011 6. No Disciplinary Practices (use of corporal punishment, mental or physical coercion or verbal abuse) 7. Working Hours in compliance with applicable laws and industry standards 8. Compensation at least equal to legal or industry minimum level 9. Management Systems (SA8000 Policy, Representatives, Management Review, etc) Regular Management Review Top management of CS Garment, Inc. periodically reviews the adequacy, suitability, and continuing effectiveness of the company’s policy, procedures and performance results vis-a-vis the requirements of the standard and other requirements to which the company subscribes. System amendments and improvements are implemented where appropriate. The worker representative also participates in this review. It is our concern in our management to create exciting organizations that are substantially different than the other garment industries of which we compete in order to attract and retain the best and brightest. • Management Review is conducted so that we can, at all times, accurately reflect where the organization is within its business environment. During the Management Review, we will know what went wrong in the past and what action we’ve taken in order to correct and prevent it in the future. • ISO surveillance audit helps us to have continuous improvement of our processes and procedures. Audits will detect whether or not our actions are aligned to our vision and mission by checking if the quality procedures are being followed and practiced. • By fostering an open and honest relationship with our staff, a responsive, flexible workforce is in place. We have an open door communication that gives everyone chances to report important concerns to the management. Non conformities to our Quality Policy and SA8000 Policy are prevented through joint effort of the management and the workers. • Effective cross-training and education programs have been put in place. This allows the company to respond rapidly to workflow peaks and valleys and its changes. Training, teaching and coaching efforts have broadened our focus from job-specific development to one where overall process knowledge, interpersonal and technological skills, leadership development, methodology practices, management skills, and succession planning are provided. PROMOTION OF SAFETY AND HEALTH IN THE WORKPLACE WITH CONVICTION Breastfeeding Policy Company recognizes the importance of breastfeeding for both mother and baby, and hereby supports and promotes breastfeeding. CS Garment, Inc. has provided a lactation room to enable breastfeeding mothers to balance breastfeeding or breastmilk expression of their new born baby with their work. Facility includes clean, private area with table and comfortable chair, handwashing facilities, safe container for milk and refrigerator. A lactation station provides safe and healthy working conditions for women workers taking into account their maternal functions, thus promoting the constitutional provision of providing facilities and opportunities to enhance their potential in the service of the nation. A recently passed law, Republic Act 10028 or Page 2 of 11 CS GARMENT, INC. UN Global Compact COP 2011 the Expanded Breastfeeding Promotion Act of 2009 which amended RA 7600 or the “Rooming-in and Breastfeeding Act of 1992, adopts a national policy to encourage, protect and support the practice of breastfeeding. The positive effects for the working breastfeeding mother are equally rewarding. New Policy on Hepatitis B As part of the company’s effort to promote decent work in the workplace, CS Garment, Inc. has established on 01 June 2011 a Policy and Program on Hepatitis B which aims to protect its human resources against the risk of transmission of Hepatitis B and to eliminate discrimination from hiring, job assignment or promotion of those employees and job applicants who are infected. The Department of Labor and Employment issued a Department Advisory No. 5 stating all private workplaces to implement a rights-based policy and program on Hepatitis B that incorporates human rights standards and principles. Bonafide employees with Hepatitis B are monitored and treated with confidentiality. Awareness program is provided to all employees to protect them from getting the disease. Any case of employee afflicted with the disease is reported to the Municipal Health Officer of the town. The Clinic personnel regularly initiate medical attention to safeguard health and safety of all employees. Magna Carta of Women CS Garment, Inc. has always been in compliance with the rule of the Labor Department especially Section 21 (B) of the implementing Rules and Regulations of Republic Act 9710, otherwise known as “Magna Carta of Women”. Any female employee who has undergone surgery caused by gynecological disorders shall be given a leave entitlement of two (2) months with full pay based on her gross monthly compensation. These gynecological disorders, refers to disorders that requires surgical procedures such as, but not limited to, dilatation and curettage and those involving female reproductive organs such as the vagina, cervix, uterus, fallopian tubes, ovaries, breast, adnexa and pelvic floor, as certified by a competent physician. This also includes gynecological surgeries like hysterectomy, ovariectomy and mastectomy. Any female employee, regardless of age and civil status, shall be entitled to this special leave, provided she has complied with the set requirements of law. Maternal Care Company has Family Welfare Program where pregnant employees are taken care of. 100% of the pregnant employees gave birth to healthy babies. Even if they are pregnant, they are given equal opportunity for work, training, promotion etc. Risk assessment is also conducted to identify potential hazard and risks exposure of pregnant employees within and outside company premises. Corrective and preventive actions such as minimization of long work hours and heavy work loads, counseling by company doctor and/or nurse and use of precautionary signages are observed to avoid risk to expectant mothers. Page 3 of 11 CS GARMENT, INC. UN Global Compact COP 2011 Paternal Leave The company takes care not only for female but also for male employees when it comes to family matter. Male employees whose spouse/partners gave birth are allowed seven (7) days paid leaves when their wife gives birth as mandated by law. We allow leave extensions to take care of the spouse and newly born child. Tetanus Toxoid Vaccine On 17 December 2011, employees in all ages were provided with Tetanus Toxoid Injection. The vaccine will free them from tetanus infection or other related diseases. The Provincial Health Office of General Emilio Aguinaldo Memorial Hospital in Trece Martirez City provided 250 vials for the employees. They will monitor the next tetanus toxoid injection to ensure that complete vaccine will be given to concerned employees. Free Fasting Blood Sugar (FBS) Screening On 23 November 2011, the Company’s doctor conducted free FBS screening test to around 41 employees. The test will help determine who among the employees have high sugar levels in their blood and has potential for diabetes. Employees tested with high sugar levels are oriented by the company doctor and advised to have proper diet and medication (if needed) to prevent worsening their condition. Free Bone Density Test On 29 January 2011, bone density test was conducted to around 101 employees for early detection of risk of osteoporosis (particularly for women). The results revealed that female employees have higher risk of osteoporosis, than male employees. Continuous advocacy of Family Welfare Program in the Workplace Since 1995 up to present, CS Garment, Inc. has implemented the family welfare program in the workplace. The initiative has earned several appreciation and recognition from government and non-government agencies and became the benchmark of other companies. The welfare program is a living proof that any individual can make a difference in the lives of their family only if they plan the birth spacing of the children. It does not prevent anybody from having many children, it only encourage a person to really make sure husbands and wives are ready for the coming of the child to provide him/her with a bright future. The program also teaches our employees to be responsible parents giving quality time to their children. The Clinic staff continue to provide information and education regarding the family planning and family welfare program. Contraceptives like pills and condoms are freely given to employees who preferred to have it. Employees practicing family planning/welfare program are more productive, healthy and with happy outlook in life. They can balance their worklife because they know that the company is their partner in making it work. The company physician and nurse are regularly monitoring the acceptors of the program to ensure that they are in good health and condition. Livelihood Training Program Planning for the future of the employees and their family is one of the priority concerns of CS Garment, Inc. The Vice President herself initiated the need for livelihood program for the employees to provide them with other income-generating activity to help uplift the quality of life of the employees and family members. In Page 4 of 11 CS GARMENT, INC. UN Global Compact COP 2011 collaboration with the Technical Education Skills Development Authority (TESDA), a long-time partner government agency, CS Garment, Inc. plan to schedule a livelihood training in Chocolate making, Siomai preparation, Beef tapa preservation and Tocino preservation in the first quarter of 2012. The program is a positive means to make a difference in our employees lives. 2. Business should make sure they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Progressive Management Handling issues in the workplace is a responsibility of all levels of management. Ideal way to handle complaints is to prevent things from happening especially the one that give rise to the problem or issue. Company allows the involvement of employees to cooperate and partake in problem-solving and not to become part of the problem. Regular meetings are conducted where important concerns and details are noted for management action. Labor management committee members also played a part in the discussion to further determine issues related to employee welfare, safety and health, new government mandate and others. Humane treatment to employees is an important tool of CS Garment, Inc. to ensure harmony and cooperation in the workplace. Management team is aware that the employees are not only gifted with reasons and intelligence but at the same time, they are endowed with feelings. We, in CS Garment, Inc. upholds harmonious industrial relations and promotes true care and concern for each other. This is evident in the company’s record for the past 20 years having zero incident or zero case of complaints of maltreatment, fights or exchange of blows amongst its employees, middlemanagement and the top management. Committee on Decorum and Investigation (C O D I) In response to Rep. Act 7877known as Anti-Sexual Harassment Act of 1005, the Company organized a Committee On Decorum and Investigation (CODI) which focuses on Sexual Harassment and Violence against Women. It recognizes the value of women in our society especially their role in nation-building and guarantees full respect for human rights of every individual. The committee is created to maintain sound work environment free of sexual harassment and all forms of sexual intimidation and exploitation. In keeping with these commitment, the top management in cooperation of those in the supervisory level, committee members and rank and file employees are bound to help in the prevention of sexual harassment and any form of intimidations and exploitations. CODI function is to receive complaints, conduct further investigation and submit corresponding recommendations for submission to Advisory Board subject for appropriate action. Retaliation Clause is written in the policy wherein any person whom a complaint of sexual harassment is filed cannot discipline or change the work assignment of the complainant or intentionally pressure or threaten the same otherwise the violator will commit the retaliatory acts under Article 248 (f) of the Labor Code. No complaint or record on file regarding violation of this article 7877 from year 2008-2010. Page 5 of 11 CS GARMENT, INC. UN Global Compact COP 2011  LABOUR STANDARDS 3. Business should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. SA8000 Workers Representative The Company respects the right of all personnel to form, join, and organize responsible and matured employee organization of their choice. Representatives of workers and any personnel engaged in organizing workers are not subjected to discrimination, harassment, intimidation, or retaliation for reason of their being a member of an organization. SA8000 Workers Representative is elected from among the workers to participate in workplace dialogue and management review. Labor-Management Council In the absence of trade union, our company have a Labor-Management Council (LMC) which enhances more the harmonious relationship between labor and management. We can proudly say that the company’s LMC has been very cooperative and understanding through the years especially during the times of global financial crisis up to present. Every two years, the employees are conducting the voting of Committee Members. Every section and department had their own representative to thresh-out the need of each and every employees. A committee fund was provided to help their colleagues in simple financial needs. Aside from company benefits, any team member in financial need can borrow money in the committee fund provided they have to pay it in six (6) months period without interest. The presence of LMC encourage a collaborative behavior among various levels of the organization. The philosophy is that greater cooperation between labor and management on matters of mutual interest and concern will create a more satisfying and productive workplace. Suggestion Box Suggestion or complaint box provides a confidential means for all employees to report non conformance with company policy or standards to the management and/or workers representative. This device is also used as a way to address employee concerns, if open communication is not possible/available in certain conditions and for any other reason. 4. Elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour. Working Hours The company complies with applicable laws and industry standards on working hours and public holidays. Normal work hours is eight (8) hours per day, and one (1) day off/rest every week. All overtime work are voluntary, and not exceeding 12 hours per week. Workers are requested to sign an overtime requisition form to signify their willingness to extend extra working hours with pay especially if there is an urgent need in the production. Page 6 of 11 CS GARMENT, INC. UN Global Compact COP 2011 Regular Review of Personnel Policy Manual A committee composed of Personnel Manager and Department Heads are annually reviewing the Company Policy Manual. Every new rule is discussed thoroughly to verify if it is in accordance with national law. The committee members are very particular with the compliance to the labor law, the content of the personnel policy manual is 100% compliant to the mandate of the government and the rules of the company itself. Personnel Policy Manual defines the hours of work and rest days. Computation of basic pay, overtime, holiday pay etc. together with all the benefits and compensation were also checked and reviewed if correct. New Wage Orders were verified if already implemented to all, across the board. The new policy announced by the government are discussed by the committee also for immediate implementation. 5. Effective abolition of child labor. Strict and Fair Hiring Procedure Even in placing advertisements, we made sure that 18 years above are posted. We hired only those 18 years and above and those who have finished secondary high school to do non-hazardous production work. HR Staff required for original birth certificates for age verification. As a general policy, young looking applicants are subject for further verification. Submitted copies of school diplomas are sent to their respective schools to check if they really graduated secondary school and to know the correct age. Enclosed with our verification letter is a blank form and a return envelope with ready stamps so that school officials can promptly send their response. Random background check was conducted and out of 30 applicants, we have 8 young girls who were refused admittance and request to apply after they reach their 18 years old. Rigid interview is conducted by HR staff for suspected young workers Accepting On-the Job trainees from various Vocational Schools and University were also screened properly. A written letter from the university Dean or Superintendent must clearly indicate the age of the students who will undergo the practical training in the company and the training hours are also required so that the studenttrainees will be placed in a job that are non-hazardous in nature. Remediation of Children To align our Administrative & Personnel Policies with SA8000, we have revised Policy #001 “Recruitment and Hiring” to include the “Remediation of Children” clause. The new policy is aimed as corrective action in case a “child” which fits the definition of child labor is found working in the company. If this happens, the parents/guardian will be called to discuss the rights of the child for education and to find ways to let him be in school. If in case there is a member of the child’s family that is willing, able, and qualified to work, he/she can be considered as replacement for the child. If the child reaches the age of 18 and he/she still likes to work in the company, he/she will be given priority for employment. Child –friendly firm CS Garment, Inc. received three recognition as Child-friendly Firm. The company was cited as Child-friendly firm due to various programs for the benefits of the children not only of its employees but also the children in the community. We have Page 7 of 11 CS GARMENT, INC. UN Global Compact COP 2011 joined advocacy like child-labor free company, we have donated various good and items for the children and also sponsored programs benefiting the street children in the community. In every calamity disasters in the country, we in CS Garment, Inc. are very much concerned not only to the adults but moreso on the children that have been affected by this devastating calamity happening in the Philippines. Some of the child-friendly activities are through the collaborative efforts of CSGI employees, management and the GO’s and NGO’s. Proud to say that around 30 new companies have consulted CS Garment, Inc. because they like to set-up and start Child-friendly program to their respective companies. The child-friendly programs we have cooperated, has helped thousands of children inside and outside our community. Informative Materials cum Awareness Tools Informative materials regarding prohibition in the use of child-labor are posted at designated areas of the factory. (eg. posters from ILO that child must be taken care of and has the right to play). Posting of promotional materials visible to all confirms company commitment to combat child-labor. The materials are visible not only to employees but also to the stakeholders and visitors who frequents the office. 6. Elimination of discrimination in employment and occupation. Provision of Equal Employment Opportunities (EEO) CS Garment, Inc. has aligned its policies with SA8000 not to engage in, or support discrimination in hiring, remuneration, training, promotion, termination, etc. Hiring was done on the basis of their skills and ability to do the job rather than their personal characteristics such as sexual orientation, religion, gender, nationality, ethnic origin, political belief etc. This rule on discrimination is written in our Personnel Policy Manual # 001 under Recruitment and Hiring. Preference is given to the present most qualified personnel for the vacant position either through promotion or lateral transfer rather than hiring new applicants. Consideration is also given to old employees and those who just recuperated from serious illness (e.g. cancer). Company also hires physically challenged individual. They are given opportunity to work in the factory. We have gained their loyalty and it can be justified by their length of service with CSGI.  ENVIRONMENT 7. Business should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. Accreditation of Safety Officer The company sent again employees to undergo Basic Occupational Safety and Health (BOSH) program, a course requirement for safety practitioner mandated by Rules No. 1030 as amended by the Department of Labor and Employment (DOLE) Department Order No. 16 of Occupational Safety and Health Standard, Art. 162, Labor Code of the Philippines (PD 442) designed to provide the knowledge and skills to implement Occupational Safety and Health Program and activities to promote healthy workplace. Page 8 of 11 CS GARMENT, INC. UN Global Compact COP 2011 The program aims to critically evaluate the level of occupational safety and health standard compliance to legal requirements and determine the loss control effectiveness of company’s safety activities. It tackles management training on safety and health, accident/incident investigation, emergency preparedness, accident analysis, health control and services, hazard identification, job safety among others. The company promotes and supports government objective in preventing accidents in the workplace and in developing the skills of the safety practitioners. This includes compliance to government reports on safety and health requirements. Although the company has its Safety Officers already, it continuously sends to training additional safety practitioners to strengthen more its objective to promote safety and health at work. For the record, in the company’s 20 years in operations, there were no major accident that happened in the workplace. Preventive Maintenance Checking of building facilities in preparation for any calamities (e.g. Typhoon, etc.). Discussion was made to get ready with the natural calamities that may occur at any time in the country. We are in the process of having an earthquake drill middle of this year. Annual Work Environment Measurement Last December 2010, company has requested for the Occupational Safety and Health Center (OSHC) to conduct Work Environment Measurement (WEM) . Technical services done were concentrated in the work floor Industrial Hygiene Services -dust, noise, illumination and general ventilation. The objective of this activity is to see to it that the work area is accident free. It also identifies strategic risk in the company. It ensures that workplace is free from harm against dust, noise and illumination. This initiative forms part of company’s health and safety program. Next WEM is scheduled on 1st quarter of 2011, due to availability schedule of OSHC personnel. 8. Business should undertake initiatives to promote environmental responsibility. Coastal Cleaning and Coral Reef reforestation CS Garment, Inc. actively participated in the yearly celebration of the International Coastal Cleaning and Coral Reef-Reforestation activity held in separate locations of the municipalities of Rosario. The activity was chaired by the local municipality, supported by the Philippine Economic Zone Authority (PEZA) in collaboration with the Department of Energy and Natural Resources (DENR). Last 22 September 2011, several locators of the Philippine Ecozone including CS Garment, Inc. participated in the Coastal Cleaning activity. CS Garment, Inc. was able to sponsor a coral reef to be lodge down the sea of Rosario, to become shelter for the marine life. In this humble way, the company supported the environment-friendly program of the government. Tree-Planting Activity The activity of International Coastal Cleaning and Coral Reef Reforestation often goes hand in hand with the Tree-Planting Activity. Both were projects of the PEZA Page 9 of 11 CS GARMENT, INC. UN Global Compact COP 2011 and DENR to promote care and protection for the environment. Last 24 September 2011, tree-planting activity was held at the municipality of General Trias where 1,000 mahogany trees were successfully planted. The collective effort of the locators in the ecozone including CS Garment, Inc. made the nationwide tree-planting activity a big achievement. 9. Business should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Waste Management During the Eco-Industrial Expo held inside the Cavite Ecozone last 30 June 2011, CS Garment, Inc. had disposed 644 pieces of busted fluorescent lamp (BFL) thru an accredited Hazardous Industrial Waste Transporter and Treater bearing the TR ID No.04-21-0026 by the Department of Environment and Natural resources – Environmental Management Bureau (DENREMB). The company is not trusting any fly-by night transporters or treaters in disposing its toxic substance like busted fluorescent lamp (BFL), lead batteries etc. CS Garment, Inc. chose Sardido Industries, Inc. accredited by DENR. Their treatment process for BFL is based on international treatment standard. They do not encapsulate BFL or entombed hazardous substance because the process are dangerous and unfriendly to environment. Mercury is categorized as highly “toxic” so it has to be properly handled, stored and disposed. Compliance to material testing on OekoTex Standard 100 Dealing with European buyers, entails a lot of compliance to their requirements. One of this is the Oeko-Tex Standard 100, world’s eco label for textiles. Materials and accessories used in our shirts have been tested to the defined criteria of Oeko-Tex 100. It provides a guarantee that product poses no perceivable health risk to endconsumers or any human beings. We make sure that all our suppliers are delivering to us materials that pass Oeko-Tex standards. The idea of Oeko-Tex Standard means creating a quality product that is universally valid as this quarantees the consumers or buyers that the products or materials used are ecologically harmless. Using materials and accessories like fabrics, threads, buttons, interlinings and others that are tested and considered as environment-friendly proved the company’s initiative to address environment-related issues. This is also our chance to raise awareness to other companies within the supply chain to meet the ecological standards required to compete globally. Increase in customers demand by 80% in 2008-2010, we intend to continue giving satisfaction to our customers by providing them not only quality but user-friendly and environment-friendly products. Energy savings, User-friendly machinery, tools and equipment Company’s machinery, tools and equipment are user–friendly. Sewing machine work height can be adjusted at elbow height to reduce backpains (can be set at 750 mm to 900 mm measured to top of table). It can be operated with automatic thread trimming and light foot lifting. Special machines like buttonhole, button attach, and embroidery are easy to operate since they are all automated. This makes any sewing operation faster. It also applies to the automatic spreading machine with fabric slicer, that is programmable to the required length of the markers. These state-of the art machinery Page 10 of 11 CS GARMENT, INC. UN Global Compact COP 2011 makes it easier for the operator or worker to do their work. It reduces fatigue to the employees and they can still attend to family and household chores. All machine has safety devices like emergency stop button switches, machine houring, and safety guards which protect moving and powered machine components. It has protection from accident contact, safety signs and markings. We had a noise test that passed the pressure level that is minimal below 85 decibel. Steam boilers has no emission because the company is using portable electric boiler. Machine has its pulley guards, eye protectors and automatic control switches that protects the user from harm or danger. Machine lubrication is non-flammable, combustible and not hazardous. There were no record of major accident involving machinery/ equipment in previous years up to present.  ANTICORRUPTION 10. Business should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Integrity Initiative On 05 December 2011, the President and CEO of CS Garment, Inc., Mr. Claus Sudhoff, has signed an Integrity Pledge, a commitment to ethical business practices and good corporate governance. Said program was spearheaded by the European Chamber of Commerce of the Philippines This Integrity Initiative stated that corruption has been one of the obstacles to economic growth and prosperity in the Philippines and has been eroding the moral character of this society. The pledge acknowledged the company’s responsibility to lead by example in the fight against corruption and to operate own business ethically and with integrity. Our President & CEO believes that while the government has its own initiative in reducing corruption, the advocacy to totally eradicate the fraud practice will not be a success without collective commitment from every individual as well as intervention from business environment. The Pledge stated the prohibition of bribery in any form in all activities. It ensures that any charitable contributions, business gifts, and sponsorships are transparent and will not be a purpose of influencing others into improper exercise of their functions, duties and judgment. The pledge also promotes integrity pacts to other businesses and with government agencies in following the right procedures of government laws. The participation of Mr. Sudhoff, as President and CEO of CS Garment Inc. in the Integrity Initiative is a way to create key measures and control activities intended to ensure transparency, integrity and ethical business practice amongst the garment sector. The company aims at becoming a big player in cultivating a culture of integrity not only in the country but also in the global world. Page 11 of 11
