Oriental Resorts For touristic development Table of Contents Message from the Chairman 3 Company Proﬁle 4 Touriistic Real State 5 Commercial Real State 7 residintial Real State 9 Egyptian Revolution and its Impact on CSR 11 Introduction 12 Activities Undertaken in 2011 13 Enviroment 14 Labor 15 Supply Chain 18 Local Community 19 Message from the Chairman This COP is of a very special nature. A revolution took place in Egypt in January 2011 and succeeded in overthrowing Hosni Mubarak after 30 years in power. After the revolution, a number of strikes took place in various companies where employees felt they were treated in an unfair manner. However, Oriental Resorts did not face any of these issues at all. The beneﬁt of adopting CSR and the principles of the UN Global Compact were put to the test and came out with great success. Our belief in the notion that responsible business is good business is as strong as it could be. Chairman Hussein Sabbour 3 Company Proﬁle Oriental Resorts was founded in 1996 by some of impeccable track records in development and Egypt’s most respected and biggest companies in delivery AL-AHLY Real Estate Development Comthe ﬁelds of real estate, ﬁnance and industry. pany, a leader in the Egyptian real estate sector From the very inception Oriental Resorts has had that has become one of the biggest companies in a clear vision and determined goal, as written in Egypt. Projects developed by the company its Mission Statement: include the Arkadia Mall, Saridar oﬃces and clinics and a number of Residential compounds. To play a major role in the evolution of Egyptian The National Bank Of Egypt, the largest bank in tourism and create diverse and unique projects, that Egypt. cater to every need and oﬀer a wide variety of Oriental Weavers, one of the biggest industrial experiences making the visit to Egypt unforgettable. groups in Egypt. Hussein Sabbour, who holds more than 40 years The successes Oriental Resorts has enjoyed to of experience as a consultant engineer and is date can be directly linked to the combined experrenowned for lending his skills and experience to tise of the founders, who between them share a projects like Sadat City, The Underground and the wealth of experience, industry knowledge and Semiramis Intercontinental. 4 Touristic Real Estate 5 Oriental Resort Hotel A Feel of Natural Beauty Oriental Resort is an elegant 5-star hotel that is Sensational Dining International gourmet specialsituated in Nabq Bay, 6 kilometers North of ties are served all around the hotel in the amazSharm El Sheikh International Airport and 18 ing mélange of restaurants & entertainment kilometers from Naama Bay. outlet Corporate Division Fully equipped meeting Embraced by the spectacular desert and the & conference facilities that oﬀer comprehensive endless blue of the Red Sea, Oriental Resort functions for business or corporate gatherings oﬀers a unique location where visitors can enjoy ensuring achievement of optimum results. exploring the coral reefs, aquatic life and protected parks. Sports lovers will revel in the rich variety of activities including diving, snorkeSun, Sea & Sand... Unlimited leisure & recrealing and water sports. tional pursuits are available to meet every guests Nabq Bay was declared a protected area in 1992 desire. and Nabq ranks among the ﬁnest destinations for The grounds of Oriental Resort sport a fully its great biological and natural diversity. equipped health club, a private sandy beach Feel at Home Our 380 spacious & luxurious rooms, including a variety of water sports as well as a presidential and royal suites are beautifully large pool, a water slide, 2 squash courts, 2 ﬂooddecorated, each with a private balcony and the light tennis courts, an amphitheater, a children’s latest modern amenities for your ultimate comfort. pool & playground and a kid’s club. 6 Commercial Real Estate 7 La Strada is the entertainment centre of Nabq. Nabq has developed into a diverse resort town, life; not only the place to shop, but also to mix, quickly becoming the ﬁrst choice of tourists mingle, dine, hear music and enjoy the attractive coming to Sharm El Sheikh. With its luxurious outdoor areas. resorts and vast sandy beaches overlooking Tiran Island, Nabq has 20,000+ hotel rooms, making it La Strada is located in the centre of Nabq and a the fastest growing resort town on the Red Sea. short walk from all the major resorts of the area. Oriental Resorts for Touristic Development has With its unique architecture emphasizing convenicreated La Strada to cater to people of all ages. ence and entertainment, its large variety of shops, An open-air aﬀair with spacious walkways featurrestaurants and coﬀee shops, La Strada has ing shops, restaurants and a sizzling night become the favorite of residents and visitors alike. 8 Residential Real Estate 9 Sharm Residence Sharm Residence is a Residential complex 61 separate villas, 22 semi-attached villas and consisting of separate villas, semi attached villas 114 studios. and studios. The development of the project started in 2005 Sharm Residence has developed in a community and soon became one of the most sought after of local and international residents that enjoy residential complexes in Sharm El Sheikh. the sports and beach and pool facilities of the The complex consists of 197 units, divided over . nearby Oriental Resort Hotel 10 Egyptian Revolution and its Impact on CSR 11 Introduction The details that follow will show Oriental Resorts dedication to the UNGC principles during a very special year for Egypt. Challenges of CSR Implementation in Egypt after 2011 Revolution 1 The misunderstanding of the correct meaning of CSR concept. As most companies in Egypt take CSR in terms of donating and acting in a charity way without understanding the correct deﬁnition of CSR which imposes on companies the commitment to contribute to economic development, improvement of life quality of labor and workforce in addition to the local community and society. 2 The greater diﬃculty of reducing poverty impact through building a very strong infrastructure, strong economy and good use of unemployed workforce which presents a high percentage of Egypt’s wealth. Additionally, it is necessary to concentrate more on long term projects and actions that serve better the community instead of implementing only short term initiatives that will create short term eﬀects. 3 The transparency and real ﬁghting of corruption which became nowadays very important, therefore, companies are required to tailor its polices and systems for providing more opportunities for active participations in all work processes. 4 The necessity of maintaining and opening communication channels with NGOs and removing all barriers that form obstacles towards the development projects that aim to improve and support overall country development in all life aspects. 12 Activities Undertaken in 2011 13 Environment Using LED Lamps Instead of Normal implemented as well in the new ongoing project Lightening for less electricity consumption and more energy saving. Oriental Resorts is already undertaking a huge project still currently under construction. Lastrada 2, the second phase and the extension Future Planned Projects in Environment to the already working Lastrada Mall in Nabq Bay, Sharm El Sheikh. Due to the current revolution circumstances on As previously stated in 2010 COP Report, LED Egypt’s development, and the negative impact on lamps lighting is planned to be placed in the new diﬀerent companies in all sectors, Oriental Resorts ongoing projects instead of using the normal has pending new plans to be implemented in the lighting systems, for the purpose of saving more ﬁeld of environment and energy saving that once energy and diﬀerent oﬀers were received and the company’s ﬁnancial status enables such initiastudied and the implementation will start and tive Future planned initiatives are: take place once the lighting stage is reached. • Waste Recycling Unit • Sensor Automatic Water Tabs In addition to the current implemented activities Solar Energy Heating for Swimming Pools that are still in progress such as: • Zero Carbon Rooms Already implemented in new Oriental Resort • Waste separation hotel swimming pools and is planned to be • Solar Energy for swimming pools heating 14 Labor Customer Satisfaction Awareness Raising Session CSR Training Oriental Resorts has contracted a specialized CSR training for company’s employees in both consultancy ﬁrm for conducting a Customer Satisfaction Training, as an additional awareness head oﬃce and Sharm El Sheikh branch was raising session to be provided to company’s conducted by a professional CSR trainer and also employees to improve their work and communithe GC Oﬃcer for ECRC, the UN GC focal point in cation skills. Egypt, for engraving CSR concept and appreciaCustomer Satisfaction Training was a one day tion for each employee. The training included an training session provided to employees during 2011 to three diﬀerent locations: Oriental introduction to CSR and UN Global Compact, Resorts head oﬃce based in Cairo, Sharm El with clariﬁcation and explanation of the beneﬁts Sheikh branch oﬃce (including Oriental Resort that are gained and could be increased by particiHotel heads) in addition to a sister company that pating in the UN Global Compact and the imporoperates in the ﬁeld of tourism development as well. The three sessions were given during 2011 tance of role of companies in keeping its labor in June, July and November and testimonials rights and serving the surrounding community received from participants showed great appreciation and usefulness of training topics. 15 Labor CSR Oﬃcer Improvement among all workers. Therefore, a Committee of The company has provided the CSR Oﬃcer with a Trustees was developed for hotel staﬀ and chance to participate in the ﬁrst COP Writing Workrelated rules of procedure was issued and shop to be conducted in Egypt, for improving and announced in order to achieve more work stabildeveloping the COPs writing skills. ity and loyalty of workers towards the compa Additionally, it should be noted, that the CSR and their work place and to have a means of Oﬃcer was provided as well by the end of 2010 voicing opinions to management. with a two-day training program in sustainability reporting and how to reach excellence in sustainHealth Care and Medical Insurance ability reporting, given by a professional trainer and international expert with a wide experience Last year, Oriental Resorts has improved the in corporate sustainability. As mentioned above, medical insurance system provided to the this initiative was imitated to all company’s employees by fully covering one family member employees with the appropriate training for each employee to proﬁt from the medical programs as previously decided and not to be insurance services that provides 100% free of limited only to the CSR Oﬃcer. charge examinations and medicine. This year, Oriental resorts have widened the service to Committee of Trustees include an additional second family member for Oriental Resorts believe in the very highly imporeach employee as a way for providing more tance of creating a better work environment beneﬁts to employees and their families. 16 Labor Literacy Classes for Illiterate Workers Temporary Workers An agreement was done and already in progress Top Management decision was taken by the with Life Makers Association, a non-proﬁtable company’s BOD that no layoﬀs will be done for any hotel worker with fully paid vacation that organization that aims to help the community in was already done for hotel temporary employdiﬀerent life aspects, to gather illiterate agriculees in turns in spite of the decrease in revenues. ture workers in Oriental Resort hotel as well as other workers from many other hotels and Anti Corruption provide them with literacy classes for free and trainers will be transported to Sharm El Sheikh It is planned that by no more than mid 2012, location in order to make it more easy for workOriental Resorts will provide employees with ers to attend and overcome any diﬃculties they the appropriate Anti-Corruption Awareness Raising Session for stressing the importance of might have to be more encouraged in participatanti-corruption concept and clarifying the diﬀering. This initiative was taken by the company ent forms of business corruption and the ways due to its understanding and appreciation for of overcoming and ﬁghting them, to be added as the highly importance of developing workers’ an additional initiative to the developed antiskills and life values. corruption internal policy of last year. 17 Supply Chain Marketing of CSR Engagement • Developing of CSR materials and info that will be added to Oriental Resorts Website is currently in progress with company’s website developer as a new way of communicating company’s engagement to CSR and spreading more widely the concept among more clients. •Work is on-going for producing new printed materials on company’s involvement in CSR, i.e., ﬂyers, brochures, etc. 18 Local Community 19 Workshops Mall in South Sinai Food Wrapping Activity Voluntary Work In 2010, as stated in our previous COP, Oriental In the ﬁrst quarter of the current year 2011, Resorts has approved and started the implemenOriental Resorts has started an initiative for tation of designing and building a set of diﬀerent participating with its workforce eﬀorts towards workshops to be donated to the locals from serving the community, by announcing among victims of South Sinai ﬂoods in early 2010 at no its owned hotel workers the voluntary work of cost, as way of company’s understanding to its participating in Food Bank Initiative in cooperaduty towards the local community. Currently, tion with Resala NGO of food wrapping and delivand after one year, Oriental Resorts is proud to ery to poor people and daily labor aﬀected by announce the completion of its huge project for the slow economy. serving the local community. Oriental Resorts clariﬁed for all hotel workers that this voluntary work is completely of their choice and that there is no obligation to do it. 20
