CUBE ENGINEERING GmbH Breitscheidstr. 6 34119 Kassel Germany www.cube–engineering.com COP2012 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS CUBE Engineering GmbH has joined the UN Global Compact initiative support the company in monitoring its activities and further progress in in 2009. Through its participation the company underlines its core phicorporate responsibility actions throughout the upcoming years. losophy to contribute to a more sustainable and social world by providing consulting for renewable energy all over the world. As a globally acting company, CUBE is confronted with several challenges in terms of complying with internationally recognized principles such as those outlined in the UN Global Compact. Therefore, the company values the participation in the Global Compact as an important opportunity to receive strategic guidance on how to put the 10 principles into action. This Communication on Progress (COP) outlines the steps CUBE Engineering has taken since the last report to Global Compact to comply Dipl. Ing. Stefan Chun with the 10 principles. In addition, it sets out some indicators which will General Manager of Kassel, November 2012 CUBE Engineering GmbH CUBE COP Statement v2012_1 Page 1 / 4 CUBE ENGINEERING GmbH Breitscheidstr. 6 34119 Kassel Germany www.cube–engineering.com (1) Actions responding to specific principles Principle 1&2: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights and make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. With the set up of a new consulting service CUBE focuses also on the social impact of wind farms all over the world. One important point in the guideline is to find out if the project development is according to the human rights. A request for a project development which would have had creates a conflict with local cultural heritage has been rejected. Principle 3-6: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor; the effective abolition of child labor; and the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Principle 7-9: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. The company is consuming electricity only from Renewable Energy since beginning of 2011. All commuting employees have been encouraged to use bike and train instead of cars. A financial intensive is announced for everybody who changes to a more environment friendly transportation system. The guideline for the use of rental cars has been changed, to demand the use of cars with lower CO2 emission from the project engineers. Also it is not allowed to drive more than 120km/h with rented cars. Hybrid cars are preferred. CUBE COP Statement v2012_1 Page 2 / 4 CUBE ENGINEERING GmbH Breitscheidstr. 6 34119 Kassel Germany www.cube–engineering.com CUBE supports the establishing of cooperatives which are working in the Renewable Energy sector by offering free consulting. Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. CUBE pointed out all the consultants who are working in tendering processes to keep distance from corruption and denounce any corruptive action to the management. CUBE COP Statement v2012_1 Page 3 / 4 CUBE ENGINEERING GmbH Breitscheidstr. 6 34119 Kassel Germany www.cube–engineering.com (2) Measurement of current and expected outcomes The following table summarizes some indicators through which CUBE´s performance on implementing the 10 Global Compact principles will be measured and monitored in the future. The effectiveness of the indicators will be tested throughout the reporting year (2011) and lead to the set up of specific measurable goals with respect to each of the principles for the upcoming years. Principle CUBE’s specific INDICATOR 2011 2012 2013 Number of countries and projects for which a human rights specific due diligence assessment 1 2 1 has been carried out and preventive actions taken Number of project partners and clients which have been reviewed according to a human rights – 2 1 3 specific due diligence in order to avoid possible complicity 6 Share of female employees (in %) / number of international employees within CUBE 40 40 7 Number of Environmental Impact Assessments carried out 32 60 8 Number of initiatives undertaken to promote greater environmental responsibility 3 3 9 Number of Megawatt of wind power installed through the service and support of CUBE 1820 2035 10 Number of cases in which CUBE has rejected or uncovered and denounced corruptive action CUBE COP Statement v2012_1 Page 4 / 4
