Volvo car corporation gri report 2011 Volvo Car Corporation – GRI Report 2011 2 GRI report 2011 Volvo Car Corporation (Volvo Cars) has been reporting on environmental, health and safety aspects of its products and production since the year 2000. In 2003, we produced our first Sustainability Report in line with the international reporting guidelines from the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). By applying and living up to the GRI’s international guidelines for sustainability reporting, we aim to ensure transparent reporting based on content which is relevant to our stakeholders. Since 2007 we have published two reports each year: the ‘Corporate Report with Sustainability’, and this GRI report. The GRI report, which has a higher degree of detail when it comes to facts about our responsibility and sustainability, allows our stakeholders to more fully understand and evaluate our goals and progress. For 2011, we report at GRI level B (self-declared). GRI APPLICATION LEVEL 2002 In Accordance C C+ B B+ A A+ Mandatory Self Report Externally Assured Report Externally Assured Report Externally Assured Declared Third Party Checked Optional GRI Declared Volvo Car Corporation – GRI Report 2011 3 CONTENT SUSTAINABILITY DATA 4–5 GRI INDEX 6–9 COMPANY PROFILE 10–16 MANAGEMENT APPROACH 17–25 General sustainability and economics 17–19 Labour practices and decent working conditions 20–22 Human rights 22–24 Society 24 Product responsibility 25 PERFORMANCE INDICATORS 26–36 Economic performance 26 Environmental performance 26–31 Social performance 31–36 CONTact Erica Wikman Director Sustainability Communication Volvo Car Corporation Dept. 50202 SE-405 31 Gothenburg Telephone: +46 (0)31-59 00 00 Email: ewikman@volvocars.com www.volvocars.com/sustainability Volvo Car Corporation – GRI Report 2011 4 SUSTAINABILITY DATA 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 Trend1 Comments GRI indicator CREATING VALUE Employee Engagement Index (%)2 76 – – – – n/a A Total Sales (retail deliveries) 449,255 373,525 334,808 374,297 458,323 (+) B ASSUMING SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Product Responsibility C Safety test results Share of independent tests where Volvo Cars received the highest rank (%) 89 88 80 70 69 (+) PR1 Occupational Health and Safety D Health Sick leave per available hours (%) 4.4 4.5 4.7 5.0 5.5 (+) LA7 Occupational injuries Number of injuries resulting in at least one day of sick leave per 200 000 worked hours 0.7 0.6 0.5 0.9 1.5 (–) LA8 Diversity and Equal opportunity E Gender balance Share of women in leading positions (%)3 21.0 19.6 18.7 18.5 18.0 (+) LA13, LA14 Gender balance LA13, LA14 Ratio of basic salary of women to men 0.970 0.790 0.994 0.974 n/a (+) (bluecollar; average for eight salary grade levels “SGD” “SGK”)4 Ratio of basic salary of women to men 0.990 1.010 1.034 1.027 n/a (–) (whitecollar; average for five salary grade levels “41-42” “49-50”)4 Employment Total workforce 21,512 19,494 19,650 22,732 24,384 (+) LA1 Rate of employee turnover5 2.3 3.3 12.8 9.2 9.1 (+) LA2 PROMOTING ECOLOGICAL SUSTAINABILITY Emissions from product F Fuel efficiency Fleet average CO2 in EU (g/km) 151 157 173 182 190 (+) EN26 Energy use in car production G EN3, EN4 Total energy consumption in car production (MWh) 854,936 861,121 713,079 816,581 916,669 (+) Total energy consumption in car production (MWh/car)6 1.30 1.61 1.71 1.59 1.42 n/a Emissions from production Total carbon dioxide emissions (tonnes) 59,685 67,585 58,980 68,367 126,735 (+) EN16 Total carbon dioxide emissions (kg/car)6 114 190 158 151 311 n/a NOx emissions (tonnes) 80 85 71 90 101 (+) EN20 SOx emissions (tonnes) <1 <1 <1 <1 1 (=) EN20 VOC emissions (tonnes) 828 738 527 712 740 (–) EN20 VOC emissions (kg/car) 1.78 1.98 1.80 2.01 1.66 (+) Hazardous waste (tonnes) 11,439 9,087 5,594 9,320 11,395 (–) EN22 1) T  rend indicates our progress in relation to Volvo Cars’ goals and vision. A plus sign (+) indicates that the company is moving in the right direction toward our goals, a minus sign (–) indicates that actions need to be taken for the company to develop towards our desired direction. (=) no change compared to previous year, n/a not available. 2) Since 2011, new metric replacing Employee Satisfaction. 3) Since 2011, only Sweden, Belgium and China. 4) Since 2011, new salary grades. 5) Since 2010, only Sweden and Belgium. 6) Only production in Torslanda, Sweden and Ghent, Belgium, since 2011. Volvo Car Corporation – GRI Report 2011 5 Comments on Sustainability Facts A. Employee Engagement E. Diversity Volvo Cars measures employee engagement once a year using a measure called the Diversity issues have a high priority at Volvo Cars. Regarding the gender balance in Engagement Index (EI). The EI goal for 2011 was set to 85, and the global result was senior positions, the proportion of women in leadership positions reached 21 percent 76. Engagement is measured by aspects such as “energy” and “clarity”. The results by the end of 2011. The company’s new diversity plans were implemented in 2010 and from 2011 show that 22 percent of all employees are fully engaged, while 1 in 3 include a series of activities to accelerate progress towards increased diversity and to employees are disengaged. The long-term EI goal for 2020 is set to 95. In previous utilise the diversity within the company. See also GRI/’Management Approach: Labour years, an Employee Satisfaction Index (ESI) was used to measure employee satisfacPractices and Decent Working Conditions’, and LA13–LA14. tion, and the reason for the change is that we want to set goals and measure how we perform in relation to our aspired culture, which is characterised by engagement. See F. Fuel efficiency also GRI/ ‘Management Approach: Labour Practices and Decent Working Conditions’. Volvo Cars’ development of the powertrain to reduce carbon dioxide emissions has started to pay off. The average emission rate of the company’s car models in Europe B. Sales has fallen to 151 g CO2/km in 2011, compared to 157 g CO2/km in 2010. Volvo Cars Volvo Cars saw growth in all sales regions during 2011. Retail sales increased by 20.3 works hard to minimise the energy loss by developing efficient engines, transmissions percent to 449,255 units over full year 2010. China showed the largest increase, with and electrical systems. We seek perfection in aerodynamic shape while at the same 54.4 percent over 2010. North America grew by 22.5 percent, the Nordic region by time reducing weight and minimising mechanical losses. Electrification will play a major 13.3 percent, Europe by 13.1 percent and the Overseas region by 35.7 percent comrole in taking on the future carbon dioxide challenges, where the foreseen EU goal of pared to 2010. Market shares improved in all regions. Improved sales are driven mainly 95 g CO2/km by 2020 is one objective. Another key development in reaching these by strong demand for the 60-series: the Volvo S60 and V60 together with the XC60. goals is our new Scalable Product Architecture (SPA) in combination with the new, Sales of the low-carbon dioxide DRIVe models continue to boost sales in Europe. The internally developed engine range, known as VEA (Volvo Environmental Architecture). year 2020 global sales target is 800,000 and the growth plan for the Chinese market Volvo Cars’ customers can now choose between a total of seven models with carbon is vital to achieve this goal. dioxide emissions below 120 g/km – three of them below the 100 g/km mark. See also GRI/‘Management Approach: Environment’, and EN26. C. Product safety Volvo Cars’ vision and target for 2020 is that no one should be killed or injured in a G. Environment in production new Volvo car. To achieve this goal, Volvo Cars continues its long tradition of research Volvo Cars has an overall target to continuously reduce our total energy consumption, and its efforts to enhance security in and around the cars. Each year extensive indeand our aim is to be climate-neutral. All purchased electricity used by Volvo Cars in pendent safety testing is conducted and Volvo Cars is committed to be among the best Europe originates from renewable sources. Heating originates largely from waste heat in the class. In 2011, Volvo Cars received the highest rating in 81 of 91 tests carried and biofuel, via district heating. During 2011, the total energy consumption from direct out, which is equivalent to about 89 percent of the tests. See also GRI/’Management and indirect energy use was 854,936 MWh, which is slightly less than the previous Approach: Product Responsibility’, and PR1. year. The energy consumption per vehicle decreased by almost 20 percent from 1.61 MWh/vehicle in 2010 to 1.30 MWh in 2011. See also GRI/‘Management Approach: D. Employee health and safety Environment’, and EN3–EN4. The work environment policy is described in the Volvo Cars Work Environment Directive. One of Volvo Cars’ aims is to achieve world-class performance when it comes to the health and safety of its employees. Sick leave among Volvo Cars’ employees in Sweden and Belgium has been decreasing slowly but steadily over the past few years. In 2011, Volvo Cars recorded the all-time low figure of 4.4 percent sickness absenteeism. We also monitor work-related accidents carefully and follow up all injuries, working to achieve improvement and avoid future occurrences. In 2011, we reached a result of 0.7 LTCR (the number of injuries resulting in at least one day of sick leave per 200,000 hours worked). See also GRI/‘Management Approach: Labour Practices and Decent Working Conditions’, and LA7. Volvo Car Corporation – GRI Report 2011 6 GRI Index Key = indicator completely covered (according to definitions given in the GRI guidelines) = indicator partially covered (according to definitions given in the GRI guidelines) PROFILE 1. Strategy and analysis Indicator Description Coverage Page 1.1 Statement from the most senior decision-maker of the organisation. 10 1.2 Description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities. 10 2. Organisational profile Indicator Description Coverage Page 2.1 Name of the organisation. 11 2.2 Primary brands, products and/or services. 11 2.3 Operational structure of the organisation. 11 2.4 Location of organisation’s headquarters. 11 2.5 Number of countries where the organisation operates. 11 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form. 11 2.7 Markets served. 12 2.8 Scale of the reporting organisation. 12 2.9 Significant changes during the reporting period. 12 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period. 12 3. Report parameters Indicator Description Coverage Page 3.1 Reporting period. 12 3.2 Date of most recent previous report. 12 3.3 Reporting cycle. 12 3.4 Contact for questions regarding the report or its contents. 12 3.5 Process for defining report content. 12 3.6 Boundary of the report. 13 3.8 Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, leased facilities, outsourced operations, 13 and other entities 3.9 Data measurement techniques and the bases of calculations. 13 3.10 Explanation of the effect of any re-statements of information provided in earlier reports. 13 3.11 Significant changes from previous reporting periods. 13 3.13 Policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance for the report. 13 4. Governance, commitments, and engagement Indicator Description Coverage Page 4.1 Governance structure of the organisation. 13 4.2 Indicate whether the Chair of the highest governance body is also an executive officer. 13 4.3 Number of members of the highest governance body that are independent and/or 13 non-executive members. 4.4 Mechanisms by which shareholders and employees may make recommendations or 13 suggest direction to the highest governance body. 4.5 Linkage between compensation for members of the highest governance body, senior 14 managers, and executives, and the organisation’s performance. 4.6 Processes in place for the highest governance body to ensure conflicts of interest are 14 avoided. 4.7 Process for determining the qualifications and expertise of the members of the highest governance body for guiding the organisation’s strategy on economic, environmental, and 14 social topics. Volvo Car Corporation – GRI Report 2011 7 4.8 Internally developed statements of mission or values, codes of conduct, and principles 14 relevant to economic, environmental, and social performance. 4.9 Procedures of the highest governance body for overseeing the organisation’s identifica14 tion and management of economic, environmental, and social performance. 4.10 Processes for evaluating the highest governance body’s own performance, particularly 14 with respect to economic, environmental, and social performance. 4.11 Explanation of whether and how the precautionary approach or principle is addressed by 14 the organisation. 4.12 Externally developed economic, environmental, and social charters, principles, or other 14 initiatives to which the organisation subscribes or endorses. 4.13 Memberships in associations. 15 4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organisation. 15 4.15 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage. 15 4.16 Approaches to stakeholder engagement. 15 4.17 Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement, 16 and how the organisation has responded to those key topics and concerns. MANAGEMENT APPROACH Category Description Coverage Page General sustainability Management Approach with reference to economic performance, market presence and 17 and economic indirect economic impacts. Environmental Management Approach with reference to materials, energy, water, biodiversity, emissions, 18 effluents and waste, products and services, and compliance. Labour practices and decent work Management Approach with reference to employment, labour/management relations, oc20 cupational health and safety, training and education, and diversity and equal opportunity. Human rights Management Approach with reference to investment and procurement practices, nondiscrimination, freedom of association and collective bargaining, abolition of child labour, 22 prevention of forced and compulsory labour, complaints and grievance practices, security practices and indigenous rights. Society Management Approach with reference to community, corruption, public policy, 24 anti-competitive behaviour and compliance. Product responsibility Management Approach with reference to customer health and safety, product and service 25 labelling, marketing communications, customer privacy and compliance. Volvo Car Corporation – GRI Report 2011 8 PERFORMANCE INDICATORS Economic Category Indicator Description Coverage Page Economic performance EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed. 26 EC2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the organisation’s 26 activities due to climate change. Environment Category Indicator Description Coverage Page Materials EN1 Materials used by weight or volume. 26 EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials. 27 Energy EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary energy source. 27 EN4 Indirect energy consumption by primary source. 27 Water EN8 Total water withdrawal by source. 28 Biodiversity EN11 Location and size of land owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to, protected areas 28 and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas. Emissions, effluents, and waste EN16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight. 28 EN19 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances by weight 28 EN20 NOx, SOx, and other significant air emissions by type and weight. 28 EN22 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method. 29 EN23 Total number and volume of significant spills. 29 Products and services EN26 Initiatives to mitigate environmental impact of products and services. 29 EN27 Percentage of products sold and their packaging materials that are reclaimed by 31 category. Monetary Fines EN28 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for 31 non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations. Labour practices and decent work Category Indicator Description Coverage Page Employment LA1 Total workforce by employment type, employment contract, and region. 31 LA2 Total number and rate of employee turnover by age group, gender, and region. 31 Occupational health and safety LA7 Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and total number 31 of work-related fatalities by region. LA8 Education, training, counselling, prevention, and risk-control programmes in place to assist workforce members, their families, or community members regarding serious 32 diseases. Training LA10 Average hours of training per year per employee by employee category. 32 Diversity and equal opportunity LA13 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per category 32 according to gender and age group. LA14 Ratio of basic salary of men to women by employee category. 33 Human rights Category Indicator Description Coverage Page Human rights HR2 Percentage of significant suppliers and contractors that have undergone screening 33 on human rights and actions taken. HR3 Total hours of employee training on policies and procedures concerning aspects of 34 human rights. HR4 Total number of incidents of discrimination and actions taken. 34 Volvo Car Corporation – GRI Report 2011 9 Society Category Indicator Description Coverage Page Anti-corruption SO3 Percentage of employees trained in organisation’s anti-corruption policies and 34 procedures. SO4 Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption. 34 SO5 Public policy positions and participation in public policy development and lobbying. 34 SO7 Total number of legal actions for anti-competitive behaviour, anti-trust, and monopoly 34 practices and their outcomes. SO8 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for 34 non-compliance with laws and regulations. Product responsibility Category Indicator Description Coverage Page Customer health and safety PR1 Life cycle stages in which health and safety impacts of products and services are 35 assessed for improvement. Product and service labeling PR5 Practices related to customer satisfaction, including results of surveys measuring 36 customer satisfaction. PR6 Programs for adherence to laws, standards, and voluntary codes related to market36 ing communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship. PR7 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning marketing communications, including advertising, promotion, and spon36 sorship, by type of outcomes. Volvo Car Corporation – GRI Report 2011 10 company profile 1. Strategy and Analysis We believe that when you combine fuel efficiency, electrification and efficient manufacturing with intuitive, human-focused design and innovative safety systems and 1.1 Statement from the most senior decisionsolutions, the result is a luxury car brand for the future. We also believe in growth for our company, aiming for a global sales target of 800,000 cars in 2020. New maker of the organisation about the relevance of manufacturing plants in China, together with continued investment in our European sustainability to the organisation and its strategy operation, will help us achieve this. Aiming to be the Employer of Choice, we realise that none of this can be Moving towards sustainable mobility achieved without the support and commitment of our employees. With passion for Since mid-2011, Volvo Car Corporation has established a new corporate stratcars and customers, we want to move fast, aim high, challenge each other and at egy – Designed Around You. This is now the foundation for our business, products the same time show one other and our surrounding environment respect. and corporate culture. As a human-centric brand and company, our customers are central in everything we do. Consumers in general are becoming more responsible and more aware of the Stefan Jacoby choices they make; that they really make a difference when it comes to the environPresident & CEO ment and a sustainable society. The same goes for our employees; people want to work for a good cause, in a company that cares. Environmental care and social responsibility are natural priorities for us as a company with a global presence. Our 1.2 Description of key impacts, risks, and cars represent a thoughtful kind of luxury and the way we do business should reflect opportunities our commitment to the environment, where we take our responsibility by contributing to society, both globally and locally. Economic Our responsibility as a company stretches further than our own business and The year 2011 was the first whole year in which Volvo Cars was an independent employees. Our Company Code of Conduct is an important document underlycompany under the ownership of Zhejiang Geely Holding Group, after its acquisition ing our commitment to conduct business in a responsible and ethical way. This is from the Ford Motor Company on 2 August 2010. The acquisition strengthens the expected from all of us in order to reach our company’s objectives. Volvo Cars brand in existing European and North American markets and expands its Volvo Car Corporation supports the United Nation’s initiative the Global Compresence in China and other emerging markets. pact, which is a global business initiative on corporate responsibility. We have been Volvo Cars has a number of key events and challenges ahead. The financial a signatory since 2000 and we continue to support the Global Compact’s principles crisis is far from resolved, and as a result there is still some uncertainty in consumer on Human Rights, Labour Standards, Environment and Anti-Corruption. confidence and car demand. In the short to medium term Volvo Cars’ financial Volvo Car Corporation is a company in rapid transformation and we want to be results will be impacted by continued investments in product development, industrial part of developing a sustainable society. However, we will never achieve this without build-up in China and marketing to support the new product launches and new partnership, cooper-ation and political awareness of the challenges facing the brand direction. automotive industry. Economic risks to our business include fluctuations in raw materials and fuel We believe in electric mobility. And we believe this has to be achieved through prices and currency exchange rates. As an example, raw material prices directly cooperation between the automotive industry, governments, infrastructure providers, affect our production while fuel prices impact the sales of cars. As fossil fuel prices electric energy providers and scientific institutions. In China for example, the governincrease, the demand for our fuel-efficient and electrical car models also increases. ment has earmarked 15 billion US dollars to support its domestic vehicle industry’s As Volvo Cars’ production is still primarily in Sweden and Belgium while the US is research and development in the field of electrification. our biggest market, we are strongly affected by the instability of currencies. Important pioneering research into a new Scalable Product Architecture is under Following the challenges of the financial crisis, 2010 witnessed a turn-around development within the R&D, manufacturing and purchasing units at Volvo Car of the car market. Volvo Cars ended 2010 with global sales up by 11.2% over 2009 Corporation, along with new fuel-efficient four cylinder engines. figures. This trend continued in 2011, during which Volvo Cars saw growth in all We are also extremely dedicated to continue ¬being world leaders in automotive sales regions. Retail sales increased by 20.3% over full year 2010 to 449,255 units. safety systems, protecting the driver and passengers as well as pedestrians. China showed the largest increase with 54.4% over 2010. North America grew by Furthermore, we will continue building on our electrification strategy. Fleets 22.5%, the Nordic region by 13.3%, Europe by 13.1% and the Overseas region by of our all-electric Volvo C30 are now running in Europe and China with success35.7% compared to 2010. The year 2020 global sales target is 800,000 cars and ful results. To demonstrate our determination to be a leader in this area, we have the growth plan for the Chinese market is vital to achieve this goal. launched the Volvo V60 Plug-in Hybrid – the world’s first diesel-powered plug-in hybrid. Sustainable mobility European car manufacturers are facing difficult challenges; carbon dioxide Mobility is essential to economic development, and it also enhances the quality of a legislations requiring electrified cars are implemented without incentives that make person’s life. However, motor vehicles and other forms of transport have a significant these cars affordable for a growing number of consumers. In 2011, fewer than impact on the environment, particularly due to the role of carbon dioxide (CO2) emis50,000 battery powered vehicles were sold in Europe, equivalent to a market share sions in climate change. Sustainable mobility can be defined as the ability to meet of about 0.1 percent. the needs of society to move freely, gain access, communicate, trade and establish This figure suggests that the car market will continue to be dominated by relationships without sacrificing other essential human or ecological values today or traditional combustion engine models and we believe it is far too early to dismiss in the future. them. We are continuously improving efficiency. In fact, over the past two years Volvo At Volvo Cars, we take the view that mobility should not be achieved at the has reduced carbon dioxide emissions from our diesel and petrol model ranges by expense of the environment or other social values. We include safety in our defini13 percent. tion of sustainable mobility and our overriding objective is to develop cars that are Drive-E is our all-encompassing approach to sustainable driving. It’s the innovaboth safe and environmentally sound. Solutions are also required for improving air tive thinking behind a whole range of technologies that give you more power, more quality, primarily in cities, through a reduction of unhealthy emissions and by helping efficiency and greater driving enjoyment, while respecting the environment. Drive-E to reduce the traffic congestion that is the result of increased car usage. We have a stands for new, efficient and powerful engines, plug-in electric hybrids, high-output long tradition of developing systems and functions for our cars that have benefited batteries, Start/Stop technology, energy recovery systems and even sustainable society in general. The Lambda sensor (a three-way catalytic converter) and the manufacturing. Sustainable mobility is central to our philosophy of intelligent, three-point seat belt are Volvo Cars’ inventions that have become standard in cars thoughtful luxury, and it’s at the heart of every car we make. worldwide. Volvo Car Corporation – GRI Report 2011 11 Climate change During the year, Volvo Cars has recorded several milestones associated with ‘DRIVe 2. Organisational Profile Towards Zero’: our vision for developing cars entirely free from harmful exhaust 2.1 Name of the organisation emissions and environment-impacting CO2. Volvo Cars’ customers can now choose between a total of seven models with CO2 emissions below 120 g/km – three This report covers Volvo Car Corporation (Volvo Cars) and all of its wholly-owned of them below the 100 g/km mark. The average emission rate of the company’s subsidiaries. Volvo Cars was owned by the Ford Motor Company until 2 August car models in Europe has fallen to 151 g CO2/km in 2011, which represents the 2010, when it became an independent company under the ownership of Zhejiang biggest annual decline of all automotive industry companies in the EU. However, we Geely Holding Group. are aware that there is an enormous challenge ahead of us if we are to reach the EU goal of a maximum 95 g CO2/km by 2020. Efficiency and electrification are key to achieving this goal. The new Scalable Product Architecture (SPA) and the new 2.2 Primary brands, products and/or services engine range, known as VEA (Volvo Environmental Architecture) are two examples of how we are approaching this objective. Volvo Cars produces premium-segment car models in four versions: Sedans Limiting CO2 emissions and curbing climate change also encompass the (S40, S60 S80), Versatile estates (V50, V60, V70), Cross country vehicles environmental effects of our production facilities and logistics flows. Limiting climate (XC60, XC70, XC90) and Coupes and convertibles (C30, C70). change and making the best possible use of the Earth’s resources will require innovative cooperation between all stakeholders – locally and globally. Safety 2.3 Operational structure of the organisation Road accidents are a serious problem; as many as 50 million people are injured in road accidents annually and approximately 1.3 million die as a result of such Volvo Cars is an independent company that has been under the ownership of the accidents. For this reason, we have a strong commitment to continue strengthening Zhejiang Geely Group since 2 August 2010. The ‘Volvo’ name is owned by Volvo our work with safety and product responsibility. Trademark Holding AB, which is jointly owned by Volvo Cars and AB Volvo. Our cars The aim is to offer cars that are safe for all people in all imaginable traffic situaare marketed and sold by regional market companies and national sales companies tions. The key to success in this respect is to design safety systems that are smart through approximately 2,300 local dealers in about 100 countries. Most of the and that interact with one another. We base our research on a variety of parameters, dealerships are independent companies. including data obtained from actual road accidents, with the future aim of building Volvo Car Corporation head office, product development, marketing and admincars that do not crash. In the shorter perspective the aim is that by 2020 no one istration functions are mainly located in Gothenburg, Sweden. Since 2011, Volvo should be killed or injured in a new Volvo car. Achieving this will be challenging and Cars has had offices in Shanghai and Chengdu, China. The new Volvo Cars China part of the solution lies in successful communication between car technology and headquarters in Shanghai includes a Technology Centre and functions such as infrastructure. sales and marketing, manufacturing, purchasing, product development and all other For the past few years Volvo Cars, together with several partners, has parsupporting functions. ticipated in the ongoing road train project SARTRE – Safety Road Trains for the Volvo Cars manufactures in four countries in total. The company has own manuEnvironment. Some other highlights during the year include touring the world’s facturing and assembly plants in three countries: Sweden (Torslanda, Skövde, Floby motor shows with a Volvo C30 Electric that has undergone a frontal collision test and Olofström), Belgium (Ghent) and Malaysia (Kuala Lumpur). Volvo cars are also at 64 km/h (40 mph). The company is also taking the next step in active safety by manufactured at a production plant in China (Chongqing). developing a system that alerts and automatically brakes for animals on the road. The company also manufactures in Uddevalla, Sweden through Pininfarina The new system will be launched on the market in a few years’ time. Volvo Cars Sverige. Pininfarina Sverige in Uddevalla is owned jointly by Pininfarina S.p.A of Italy employees have also received an award from the NHTSA, the American traffic safety (60%) and Volvo Cars (40%). From 2013, Pininfarina Sverige will be fully owned by administration, for significant contributions to automotive safety. Volvo Cars. The process of establishing a manufacturing plant in Chengdu, 1,600 km west In-car environment of Shanghai, is ongoing, pending the approval of the Chinese authorities. Other important issues that Volvo Cars emphasises are the reduction of nickel and of allergens in the passenger cabin, and the use of chromium-free leathers. Nickel allergy is one of the most common causes of allergic contact dermatitis in the 2.4 Location of organisation’s headquarters industrialised world. Volvo Cars has a strict requirement that parts supplied for our car interiors fulfil our nickel standard. This means that for all interior components Volvo Cars’ head office, product development, marketing and administration funcwith metallic appearance in Volvo cars, such as interior door handles, gear levers, tions are located in Gothenburg, Sweden. Since 2011, Volvo Cars’ China headkeys, Volvo badges in the steering wheel and climate control buttons, nickel leakage quarters has been located in Shanghai, supporting the company’s China strategy. has been minimised. This Volvo standard applies to our entire car range. The parts containing nickel have been covered with nickel-free plating, and they have all been tested to ensure that any nickel release is below the strict Volvo level. There are no societal standards for in-car air, so Volvo Cars has created its own 2.5 Number of countries where the in-car air quality requirements that are used when developing new Volvo models. We organisation operates have worked for a long time, together with our suppliers, to reduce allergens, and to ensure that all textiles and leather are certified to Oeko-Tex Standard 100. Four Volvo Cars manufactures in four countries in total. The company has own models with nine different cabin interiors have interior air that is recommended by manufacturing and assembly plants in three countries: Sweden, Belgium and the Swedish Asthma and Allergy Association. All leather used in Volvo car interiors Malaysia. Volvo cars are also manufactured at a production plant in China, not has been tanned with a chromium-free process, using either natural or synthetic owned by Volvo Cars. tanning materials. In addition to benefiting those with a chrome allergy, it also reduces the environmental impact of the tanning process. 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form Human and labour rights Violations of human and labour rights entail a risk factor in Volvo Cars’ supply chain. Volvo Cars is an independent company under the ownership of the Zhejiang Geely We believe the best way to generate long-lasting improvement and thereby reduce Holding Group. The Volvo brand is owned jointly by Volvo Cars and AB Volvo through potential risk is by combining a clear Code of Conduct with continuous dialogue, Volvo Trademark Holding AB. training and audits. During 2010, we started to update our Code of Conduct and in 2011 it was communicated to employees, suppliers and other business partners. Volvo Car Corporation – GRI Report 2011 12 2.7 Markets served S80 • Central Television Business Channel (CCTV-2), China: Volvo S80 awarded the Our cars are sold in more than 100 countries. In 2011, retail sales increased by Technology Innovation Car of the Year. 20.3% to 449,255 units over full year 2010. In 2011 the US was Volvo Cars’ largest market, accounting for approximately 15% of total retail deliveries. Sweden was V60 second (approximately 13%), followed by China (approximately 10%). By taking the • Automobile Researchers’ & Journalists’ Conference (RJC), Japan: Volvo V60 third place in the market ranking China overtook the UK, which had been in third awarded the 2012 RJC Import Car of the Year. place the year before. XC60 • Auto India Best Brand Awards 2011, India: Volvo XC60 awarded Best Safety • Golden Steering, India: Volvo XC60 awarded Import SUV of the Year. 2.8 Scale of the reporting organisation • AUTOCAR Asean Car of the Year Awards 2011, Malaysia: Volvo XC60 awarded Small Luxury SUV category award. Volvo Cars employed a total of 21,512 people as of 31 December 2011. The company sold a total of 449,255 cars in 2011. XC90 • Northwest Automotive Press Association (NWAPA), United States: XC90 awarded Mudfest Best Luxury SUV. 2.9 Significant changes during the reporting period Being a standalone company from 2 August 2010, and with a new corporate 3. Report parameters strategy, it has been essential to realign parts of the organisation in order to properly 3.1 Reporting period support Volvo Cars’ ambitious growth strategy. Main departments like Marketing, Sales and Customer Service as well as Research and Development have undergone The report covers the period 1 January to 31 December 2011. important restructuring. Several new globally experienced members have been recruited to the Executive Management Team to secure the execution of the new business plan and profitable growth. 3.2 Date of most recent previous report The 2010 report was issued in May 2011 and is available at Volvo Cars’ website. 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period Selected awards per category and car models are presented below. Full details can 3.3 Reporting cycle be found at our webpage. Volvo Cars reports on an annual basis. Safety • 2012 Top Safety Pick award: No less than five Volvo models – the C30, S60, S80, XC60 and XC90 – earned a Top Safety Pick in the Insurance Institute for Highway Safety’s (IIHS) award 2012. 3.4 Contact for questions regarding the • US traffic safety administration NHTSA: Volvo Cars’ employees receive awards for report or its contents significant contributions to automotive safety. Erica Wikman, Director Sustainability Communication, by email ewikman@volvocars. Quality com or by telephone +46-(0)31-59 00 00. • J.D. Power study for the German market: Volvo Cars came first in the brand ranking for 2011. • The Middle East Motor Awards 2011: The Volvo S60 was crowned Car of the Year. 3.5 Process for defining report content Design/Environment We hold a continuous dialogue with stakeholders from groups such as academia, • Challenge Bibendum 2011: The Volvo V60 Plug-in Hybrid won the Challenge NGOs, government agencies, trade unions, fleet customers and suppliers regarding Bibendum 2011 Design Contest award in the category for vehicles with internal our responsibility as a company. These stakeholder groups regularly assist us in combustion engines. identifying priority areas through the dialogues held in various ways. • Challenge Bibendum 2011: The Volvo C30 Electric came in shared first place in The most recent materiality analysis with the aim of evaluating and defining the 130-kilometre rally and also won awards for handling, well to wheel CO2 emisthe sustainability report content was carried out in 2009 alongside a review of the sions and local emissions. Corporate Report 2008, by consulting key internal and external stakeholders. Those • Challenge Bibendum 2011: The Volvo V50 DRIVe came third in the 300-kilometre invited to comment were representatives from academia, NGOs, government agenrally with awards for fuel efficiency. The V60 Plug-in Hybrid came fifth among the cies, trade unions, fleet customers and suppliers. Our respondents were prominent 16 cars in the long rally and was awarded for its acceleration. opinion leaders in their own fields – people with considerable expertise in the areas of sustainability and the automotive industry. Models Participants were asked to identify issues and rank 33 aspects of sustainability S60 in terms of how important they thought these were for Volvo Cars’ success as a • Automobile Researchers’ & Journalists’ Conference (RJC), Japan: Volvo S60 company. Once processed, the opinions of these external respondents were set awarded the 2012 RJC Import Car of the Year out alongside Volvo Cars’ internal priorities. Climate change, safety, fuel efficiency, • Middle East Motor Awards (MEMA) 2011, Middle East: Volvo S60 awarded the alternative fuels, corporate governance, exhaust emissions and product development Middle East Car of the Year 2011. were given the highest priority, internally and externally. Sales, working conditions, • International Car of the Year (ICOTY), USA: Volvo S60 awarded the 2011 Internasupplier-related issues, and stakeholder engagement also received very high ranktional Sedan of the Year (USA). ings. The materiality analysis also revealed that our stakeholders do not consider any aspect of sustainability to be unimportant. Consequently, the overall conclusion is that sustainability as a whole matters greatly to Volvo Cars’ stakeholders. Volvo Car Corporation – GRI Report 2011 13 3.6 Boundary of the report 4. Governance, Commitments, This GRI report deals with Volvo Cars and all wholly owned operations throughout 2011. We report only direct environmental impacts, except in the case of CO2 and Engagements from energy production for which we also report indirect emissions from electricity 4.1 Governance structure of the organisation generation and district heating. Financial issues are addressed only briefly since we are an independent company under the ownership of Zhejiang Geely Holding and Needs and expectations regarding corporate behaviour vary with time. Thus, we not a listed company at the stock market. Definitions regarding boundaries for each need to take an operational approach to sustainability. A coordinator is responsiperformance indicator are given in respect to the indicator concerned. ble for sustainability strategies and communication and sustainability issues are integrated into our business plan. At the operational level, the appropriate officer or function (e.g. the Health and Safety Director or the Diversity Manager, etc.) is responsible for ensuring that relevant issues are discussed at the level at which 3.8 Basis for reporting on joint ventures, decisions on strategies, goals and actions can be taken. subsidiaries, leased facilities, outsourced operations, and other entities 4.2 Indicate whether the Chair of the highest The report deals with wholly-owned operations of Volvo Cars. These comprise ofgovernance body is also an executive officer fices mainly in Sweden, China and Belgium, research and development in Sweden, manufacturing in Sweden, Belgium, and Malaysia, as well as sales companies worldThe chair of our highest governance body, the Board of Directors, is not an executive wide. Definitions regarding boundaries for each performance indicator are given in officer within Volvo Cars. respect to the indicator concerned. 4.3 Number of members of the highest governance 3.9 Data measurement techniques and the body that are independent and/or non-executive bases of calculations members Definitions are provided for all performance indicators reported. Volvo Cars has since 2 August 2010 been an independent company under the ownership of the Zhejiang Geely Holding Group and is managed by a Board of Directors comprising independent Board members, owner representatives, Volvo 3.10 Explanation of the effect of any re-stateCars and the employee organisations. Meetings are held four times a year and ments of information provided in earlier reports the Board’s main task is to provide a forum for the company’s strategies, business orientation, product plan, major investment plans and budget. The information provided for the reporting years before 2009 was based on Volvo Cars under the ownership of Ford Motor Company. The content of last year’s report, Board of Volvo Cars, as per December 2011: 2010, was subject to the shift in ownership from the Ford Motor Company to ZheLi Shufu, Director and Chairman of the Board (male) jiang Geely Holding Group, which took place on 2 August 2010. The content in this Hans-Olov Olsson, Director and Vice Chairman of the Board (male) GRI report, covering the reporting year of 2011, is based solely on information under Stefan Jacoby, Director & CEO (male) the ownership of Zhejiang Geely Holding Group. Herbert Demel, Director – Independent* (male) Winnie Fok, Director – Independent (female) Lone Fønss Schrøder, Director – Independent* (female) 3.11 Significant changes from previous Håkan Samuelsson, Director – Independent* (male) Peter Zhang, Director – Independent* (male) reporting periods Employee representatives: No significant changes. Definitions are provided for all performance indicators Sören Carlsson, Swedish Union of Clerical and Technical Employees in Industry reported. (UNIONEN) (male) Glenn Bergström, Swedish Metalworkers’ Union (male) Marko Peltonen, Swedish Metalworkers’ Union (male) 3.13 Policy and current practice with regard Deputy employee representatives: to seeking external assurance for the report Björn Olsson, Swedish Metalworkers’ Union (male) Magnus Sundemo, The Swedish Association of Graduate Engineers (male) The Volvo Cars Corporate Report and the GRI report 2011 have not been verified by a third party. Although we regard third-party verification as an important step to*Independent means that the relevant Board member is not part of or a representawards transparency, we continue to seek an approach that suits Volvo Cars. For us, it tive of the owner organisation, nor a member of the executive/senior management is important that third-party verification should reinforce our legitimacy and preserve team of Volvo Cars (EMT) nor an employee representative. our owner’s integrity, while reflecting the values represented by our brand. 4.4 Mechanisms by which shareholders and employees may make recommendations or suggest direction to the highest governance body The relevant trade unions are represented on the Board of the Volvo Cars. This is one way in which we ensure that employee interests are communicated to the highest governance body. Volvo Car Corporation – GRI Report 2011 14 4.5 Linkage between compensation for members Magnus Sundemo is an alternate union representative on the Board (Akademikerna). of the highest governance body, senior managers, Björn Olsson is an alternate union representative on the Board (IF Metall). and executives and the organisation’s performance Executive compensation at Volvo Cars has four components: fixed salary, bonus, 4.8 Internally developed statements of mission or company car and other benefits (e.g. healthcare insurance and pension benefits). Volvo Cars applies global cash-based bonus programmes for all employees. For senvalues, codes of conduct, and principles relevant to ior managers and executives, Volvo Short Term Incentive is based both on company economic, environmental, and social performance and individual performance. One-third of the company performance is a health objective measured through the Global People Survey result and Communicative For information on our internally developed codes of conduct and principles, please Leadership Index. The individual performance takes into account behaviour accordsee the Management Approach section of this report, below. ing to the aspired company culture. 4.9 Procedures of the highest governance body 4.6 Processes in place for the highest governance for overseeing the organisation’s identification body to ensure conflicts of interest are avoided and management of economic, environmental, and Volvo Cars regulates the handling of conflicts of interest. The Volvo Cars’ Corporate social performance instruction ‘Report of financial or other interest’ stipulates that conflicts of interests must be reported to the Legal Department. The updated Code of Conduct comAs environment and safety are bound up with our company’s core values, these asmunicated to employees during 2012 includes guidelines on how to avoid conflicts pects of our products form part of our strategic direction and are discussed as such. of interest that potentially could occur in various situations. Working conditions, health and safety and diversity issues are addressed at our daily operational meetings and considered on a case-by-case basis. Processes for reviewing working conditions, as well as environmental, product safety and legal compliance issues, are part of our business management system. 4.7 Process for determining the qualifications and expertise of the members of the highest governance body for guiding the organisation’s strategy 4.10 Processes for evaluating the highest governon economic, environmental, and social topics ance body’s own performance, particularly with respect to economic, environmental and social Together, the 13 members of the Board of Volvo Cars form a global board with vast experience of the car industry and business development: performance Li Shufu is the Chairman of the board of Volvo Cars and the founder of Zhejiang Geely Holding. There is no stated process for evaluating the highest governance body’s work with Hans-Olov Olsson is the Vice Chairman of the Board of Volvo Cars and respect to environmental and social performance. However, managers are evaluated started his career at Volvo in 1966. From 2000–2005 Olsson was the Managing according to criteria including corporate governance and corporate citizenship. Director of Volvo Cars. He was responsible for the Ford Motor Company’s global marketing between 2005 and 2006. Stefan Jacoby is the President and CEO of Volvo Cars, and has previously had 4.11 Explanation of whether and how the several senior positions with Volkswagen and Mitsubishi, among others as Managing Director at Volkswagen in the US. precautionary approach or principle is addressed Dr. Herbert Demel is a member of the Volvo Cars’ Board of Directors and by the organisation started his career with Bosch in 1984. He has experience from working with companies such as Audi, Volkswagen and Fiat. Demel is the Executive Vice President of Having signed the UN Global Compact, Volvo Cars supports the precautionary Magna and President for Magna in China, South East Asia, India, Africa and South principle. Our decisions are made on the basis of the information available at each America. particular occasion. Nonetheless, inadequate or unreliable information is often a Lone Fønss Schrøder is a member of the Board of Directors of Volvo Cars strong indication that caution is advisable, both from a business perspective and in a and has been employed at the shipping company Möller-Maersk. Schroeder was broader, societal context. also Managing Director of Wallenius Lines from 2005–2010. She is currently also a Internally and in cooperation with stakeholders, we are pursuing a wide Board member of Handelsbanken and has been a board member of Vattenfall. range of actions that help us understand and manage the way our products Winnie Kin Wah Fok is a member of the Volvo Cars’ Board of Directors and interact with the environment. Our ‘Clean Compartment’ work is an example has extensive experience of the financial market. Fok has previously worked as an of efforts in line with the precautionary principle. This reduces health risks for advisor to Investor and is also a Board member of SKF and G4S. passengers with asthma or allergies by replacing interior trim with materials Håkan Samuelsson is a member of the Board and has a background as exceeding the requirements of current legislation. To give another example, our Managing Director for the truck producer MAN. He also has executive experience paint shops allow far lower solvent emissions than permitted by law. working at Scania and is also a Board member of Siemens. Dr. Peter Zhang is a member of Volvo Cars’ Board of Directors, and comes most recently from Geely Automotive Holdings, Ltd., where he was Vice President 4.12 Externally developed economic, environmenfrom 2007–2010. Zhang has a diverse background and over the past 10 years or so has worked for major multinational companies, such as the BP Group and Shell. tal and social charters, principles or other initiatives Sören Carlsson is a union representative on Volvo Cars’ Board (Swedish Union to which the organisation subscribes or which it of Clerical and Technical Employees in Industry). endorses Glenn Bergström is a union representative on Volvo Cars’ Board (IF Metall), and has been working with Volvo Cars since 1974. In 1999, Volvo Cars was one of the first companies to heed UN Secretary General Marko Peltonen is a union representative on Volvo Cars’ Board (IF Metall). Kofi Annan’s appeal to become a signatory to the principles of the UN Global He has been with Volvo since 1984. Compact. Volvo Cars also contributed to the formulation of the Global Compact’s Volvo Car Corporation – GRI Report 2011 15 tenth principle (on corruption) and was represented in New York by its CEO when We believe our stakeholder dialogues provide us with: the principle was formally adopted. Volvo Cars signed the UN Global Compact in • A better understanding of how stakeholders in a given region see sustainability June 2000. issues evolving over the next 15 years and how this may affect the automotive Our Code of Conduct stands as a general endorsement of the following human sector and Volvo Cars. rights frameworks and charters: • Opportunities to build new relationships between Volvo Cars and leading opinion •The eight core conventions of the UN agency the International Labour Organisamakers. The dialogue provides a comprehensive view of stakeholder perspectives tion: Child Labour (138 and 182), Forced Labour and Compulsory Labour (29 on sustainability issues. and 105), Equal Remuneration and Discrimination (100 and 111), Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining (87 and 98) Customers • The ten principles of the Global Compact Volvo Cars’ success is built on satisfied customers. When we plan our products and • The Universal Declaration of Human Rights services, we do this on the basis of careful analyses of different customers’ needs • UN Convention on the Rights of the Child and desires. During the development phase of a product, we perform tests on how • OECD guidelines for multinational companies the proposed solutions are perceived by our consumers. By combining the customer For several years, Volvo Cars’ Sustainability Reports and Volvo Cars’ ‘Corporate evaluations with our own tests, we work to find a final solution that is best for our Report with Sustainability’ have been inspired by the GRI Sustainability Reporting customers. When our cars have reached the market, we follow closely how they are Guidelines. received by media, through feedback from dealers, and, most importantly, by holding Volvo Cars has been contributing to the new ISO standard on social responsibila dialogue with our customers. ity by working with the Swedish ISO Committee’s industry group and by actively disseminating information on the standard. In this way, we have contributed to social Employees responsibility by helping develop guidelines for many players. The new ISO 26000 Good relations between managers and subordinates are fundamental to good standard was launched at the end of 2010. relations between the workforce and the company. Regular development meetings between employees and their immediate superiors should be used to develop personal development plans, which can then be monitored and evaluated. Every year Volvo Cars conducts an extensive, anonymous, survey among all employees to 4.13 Memberships in associations determine their attitudes and opinions on issues such as communication, individual development and the work environment. The results are compiled and reported at This refers primarily to memberships maintained at the organisational level. Volvo different levels. The results from a working group are discussed with the employees’ Cars is a member of the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise and the European immediate superior, who is also responsible for developing action plans in areas Automobile Manufacturers Association (ACEA). Volvo Cars also belongs to the Asrequiring improvement. Since 2011 the survey has included a focus on Employee sociation of Swedish Engineering Industries and BIL Sweden. Engagement, which is recorded as a key performance indicator in our scorecard. To ensure good relations between the company and its employees, we hold regular discussions with organisations representing the workforce. These discus4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the sions are conducted at both the local and central level. The Board includes three organisation employee representatives whose role is to ensure that their members’ interests and experiences are represented at the highest level. Engineering and economics Our most important stakeholders are our customers, employees, suppliers and undergraduates from universities are surveyed annually to measure their perception dealers, our owner (Zhejiang Geely Holding Group), and the communities in of Volvo Cars as a potential future employer. which we operate. Public agencies, non-governmental organisations (NGOs) and other interests that influence market structures are also important in this context. Dealers Volvo Cars maintains relationships with various stakeholders that influence or are The national sales companies (NSCs) represent the main interface between the influenced by our operations – from customers and employees to business partners dealer network and Volvo Cars. Dealers and sales companies exchange views and and the communities in which we operate. Each of these groups presents a special information on an ongoing basis, providing us with valuable information on the responsibility and our aim is to be, and to be perceived as, a responsible player in all dealers’ situation and the specific conditions of the local market. In many markets, of our relationships. the dealer network is also represented by a dealer/NSC forum where dealers may present their views to the NSC on key issues, such as dealer agreements and standards. Most issues are dealt with by the NSC, with headquarters being brought in if necessary. Headquarter functions are also indirectly involved in many issues, 4.15 Basis for identification and selection of such as standards. We participate in a syndicated study known as the Dealer stakeholders with whom to engage Satisfaction Survey, which reports independent information on dealers’ opinions regarding manufacturers and the support they provide. The results of this study may Volvo Cars believes in openness and transparency. Consequently, we deliberately not be disseminated outside the participating companies. choose not to engage with certain groups. However, certain stakeholder groups are prioritised based on the extent to which the company and its products influence Suppliers them or vice versa. We have approximately 400 major suppliers of direct materials. All of these are In addition to employees, customers, owners and suppliers, Volvo Cars has wellimportant to us and we are anxious to maintain good relations with them. At present, developed relations with trade unions, universities and research institutions, the memuch of our product development is carried out in cooperation with suppliers in joint dia, non-profit organisations and authorities in other segments of the public sphere. projects. Daily liaison is essential if we are to understand our suppliers’ expectations of us and vice versa. The negotiations preceding each new agreement with a supplier are also a major opportunity to exchange information and feedback. Another important interface involves our supplier open days, at which all suppliers 4.16 Approaches to stakeholder engagement can exchange information and establish contacts. Volvo Cars was founded in 1927 and some companies have been supplying us since then. We value long-standing Knowing what our most important stakeholders think and expect of their relarelationships and prefer to have one main supplier for each component area. tionships with Volvo Cars is the key to our progress as a company. Our aim is to establish open channels and hold regular meetings with all of our major stakeholdOwners ers. We believe in good relations and mutual understanding between all stakeholdSince 2 August 2010 Volvo Cars has been an independent company under the ers. For this reason, we participate in various networks, seminars and conferences ownership of the Zhejiang Geely Holding Group. Many interfaces exist between the to hear the views of others and to inform them about our work. We also encourage parties in terms of overall strategic issues and joint projects. Zhejiang Geely Holding interested parties to contact us, for example through our website or at citizen@ evaluates Volvo Cars’ performance in both financial and non-financial terms through volvocars.com the Board of Volvo Cars. Volvo Car Corporation – GRI Report 2011 16 Local community 4.17 Key topics and concerns that have been raised In communities where we are a major employer, we hold regular meetings with local representatives. We inform them of our plans and learn how the community seeks to through stakeholder engagement, and how the develop. We also assess opportunities for cooperation. organisation has responded to these Non-profit organisations & Authorities Our latest materiality analysis was performed in 2009, involving both internal and Volvo Cars is represented in a large number of groups and organisations pursuing external stakeholders. Internally and externally, the highest priority was given to or monitoring various issues at local, regional and national levels. For Volvo Cars, climate change-related issues such as fuel efficiency, alternative fuels and product sustainability reporting is a way of demonstrating transparency and engaging in development. Besides climate change, other highly important issues were safety dialogue with stakeholders. The reporting process provides an annual opportunity and corporate governance. Consequently, these areas are given high priority in our for discussion, evaluation and reflection, supporting our efforts to develop our sustainability work and communication. The materiality analysis also revealed that business sustainably. Volvo Cars maintains ongoing dialogue with authorities on our stakeholders do not consider any aspect of sustainability to be unimportant. various issues that might affect operations, such as the environment and safety, and The overall conclusion is that sustainability as a whole matters greatly to Volvo Cars’ has, for example, initiated long-term cooperation with the Swedish National Road stakeholders. Administration. Other important issues according to our most important stakeholders are listed below (in order of priority): Exhaust emissions Economic performance Working conditions – suppliers Stakeholder engagement Quality Materials use & waste Emissions from production Supply chain management Public affairs & lobbying Corruption and bribery Occupational health & safety Emerging markets development Labour/management relations Sales Workforce training and benefits Volvo Car Corporation – GRI Report 2011 17 Management Approach General Sustainability Some of the ways in which we identify key issues in our role as a local player are through our employee attitude survey, dialogues with the local community, and and Economics cooperation with local authorities. For Volvo Cars, sustainable development means seeking to establish a balance Our mission between the needs of the company, its customers and future generations. Though Our mission includes the aim of strengthening our commitment to safety and the Volvo Cars is a relatively small company, our brand is global and so is our influence. environment. As the responsibility of every manager and employee, sustainability is Consequently, our business objectives and sustainability commitments should feed based on our mission and on company-wide guidelines. Above all, it is a mindset into each other. whereby we as individuals consider the social and environmental consequences of Our behaviour in society has an influence on how our company and brand are our day-to-day decisions. perceived and, by extension, on demand for our cars. People have high expectations Our company mission requires us to act in an environmentally and socially of Volvo Cars in terms of environmentally and socially responsible behaviour. Comresponsible manner. Among other things, this means we must: petition is tough, not only for customers, but also for skills. We know that a good • be a reliable employer and business partner; reputation makes it easier to recruit and retain personnel. • take environmental and social issues into account in purchasing, production and We also know that an understanding of the long-term challenges facing society distribution; is a force for innovation and generates business opportunities. Our decision to • create employment; commit actively to sustainability is based on the conviction that this will reinforce • contribute knowledge; our competitiveness in both the short and long term. Ultimately, we realise that our • be honest, transparent and active within the communities in which we operate. stakeholders determine how well we live up to our responsibility. They determine our success by buying our products, working productively and doing business with us. Our organisation Needs and expectations regarding corporate behaviour vary with time. Thus, we Goals and performance need to take an operational approach to sustainability. In operational terms, business The Volvo Cars Scorecard, which presents our performance relating to our key planning forms the base on which we manage our activities. Issues of environment, performance indicators, is shown at the very beginning of our GRI Report as well as personnel, safety, purchasing, diversity, etc., are planned and monitored according to at www.volvocars.com/sustainability. In addition, each performance indicator shows the structures, policies and guidelines in our Business Management System. This our performance in each area of sustainability and responsibility. means that results are communicated to the employees concerned in the course of their ordinary work. The workforce as a whole is kept up-to-date on the company’s Our responsibility programmes through articles in our in-house magazine Agenda, the CEO’s newsletOne way of describing our responsibility is in terms of three important roles – those ters, and direct email communication with managers; managers in turn are responsiof a car-maker, a global company and a local player. ble for communicating with their teams. The overall situation is described annually in this report as well as the ‘Corporate Report with Sustainability’. Responsibility as a Car-maker Volvo Cars’ executive management team consists of 13 members representing As a car manufacturer, we provide personal transport solutions that benefit individual all sections of the value chain and certain support functions. A number of councils freedom and wellbeing, as well as contributing to socio-economic development. have been established at the overall company level to monitor and pursue issues However, Volvo Cars also contributes to negative mobility issues, such as congesrelated to sustainability. tion, noise and air pollution. It is our responsibility to do our best to minimise the At the operational level, the appropriate officer or function (e.g. the Health negative impact of our products through sustainable business strategies. and Safety Director or the Diversity Manager, etc.) is responsible for ensuring that relevant issues are discussed at the level at which decisions on strategies, goals and Responsibility as a global company actions can be taken. The reputation of the Volvo Cars brand is one of our greatest assets. It helps us Our decisions in the area of sustainability are supported by a number of attract expertise from around the world and source the best components to build company policies. Central among these are the policies on environment, safety and the highest quality cars. Our supply chain and dealer network provide us with global quality. Several of our policies are undergoing updates, or have been updated during coverage. As a result, our global responsibility extends to everything that we buy and the past few years, due to changes in the ownership structures. sell. Through systematic efforts, we seek to ensure that both we and our partners Based on the principles of the UN Global Compact and our Code of Conduct, live up to high standards – regardless of geographical location. our vision is that good working conditions shall prevail and that human rights shall Volvo Cars’ commitment to these issues can be seen in the stringent policies be respected throughout our value chain. Our suppliers’ compliance with guidelines in our supplier agreements with regard to environmental controls, the treatment of and principles represents part of our ongoing collaboration. During 2011, Volvo Cars staff and human rights. Volvo Cars was also one of the first companies to join the developed our first Code of Conduct as a standalone company. The code sets forth United Nation’s Global Compact, an international initiative on corporate standards the guiding principles of all employees, all suppliers that Volvo Cars does business for human rights, labour conditions, environmental protection and anti-corruption with, all dealers that sell the products of Volvo Cars as well as all other representameasures. tives that conduct business on behalf of the company. The Code of Conduct was approved by the Board of Directors on 22 February 2011 and is available on Responsibility as a local player www.volvocars.com/sustainability Our employees, the communities in which we operate and local authorities are our most important local stakeholders. As an employer, we have a responsibility to provide a safe and healthy work environment. We achieve this through systematic efforts on health and safety, by sharing knowledge and by carefully considering the social and environmental impact of purchasing, production and distribution. Local environmental impact is an issue that Volvo Cars takes very seriously. All of our production facilities are certified according to the ISO 14001 environmental management system. Examples of environmental measures at our production plants include on-going work to enhance energy efficiency and switching to electricity produced from renewable resources. Volvo Car Corporation – GRI Report 2011 18 Management Approach Example of issues addressed within Product Minimising energy loss Environmental There are a number of components within a vehicle that consume energy. At Volvo Cars we work hard to minimise energy loss by developing efficient engines, transGoals and performance missions and electrical systems. We seek perfection in aerodynamic shape while The Volvo Cars Scorecard, which presents our performance relating to our key at the same time reducing weight and minimising mechanical losses, creating a performance indicators, is shown at the very beginning of our GRI Report as well as well-balanced product that meets the customer’s expectations. at www.volvocars.com/sustainability Scalable Product Architecture (SPA) and Volvo Environmental Architecture (VEA) Strategy, policies and focus areas Electrification will play a major role in meeting future CO2 challenges, where Volvo Cars’ strategic environmental work is divided into three areas: Product, Operathe foreseen EU goal of 95 g CO2/km by 2020 is one objective. Key methods tion and Brand Communication, and applies to the whole company for the period up to achieve this include Volvo Cars’ new Scalable Product Architecture (SPA) in to 2020. Identified in the strategy are various focus areas, for which goals have been combination with the new, internally developed engine range known as VEA (Volvo defined in relation to other car-makers. The Volvo Cars Environmental Strategy will Environmental Architecture). be an integrated part of the overall Business Strategy. There is an annual process in place to update the Environmental Strategy according to business development and Updated Environmental Policy 2012 global challenges to achieve a competitive environmental performance. In March 2012, Volvo Cars adopted an updated environmental policy, which included For Volvo Cars the strategy is categorised into a number of focus areas, for the following statements: which the desired goals and key activities are defined. We shall endeavour to reduce the environmental impact from our products by: Operations: • Continually improving fuel efficiency of our vehicles • Zero environmental accidents • Developing alternative solutions for vehicle propulsion • Water conservation and water emission performance (water footprint) • Reducing carbon footprint by use of sustainable materials • Climate neutral operations and energy efficiency • Emissions to air We shall endeavour to reduce the environmental impact from our operations by: • Total waste management • Constantly seeking energy efficient processes • Sustainable transport solutions • Decreasing our complete footprint concerning water • Soil and ground water management (a new strategy area in 2011, previously • Minimising waste included in ‘Zero environmental accidents’) • Working towards sustainable transport solutions Products: Operational responsibilities • Energy consumption The Senior Vice President, SVP Manufacturing is the management representative • Emissions for environmental issues within the Executive Management Team. He is also the • Alternative fuels chairman of the Environmental Committee, a cross-functional committee that man• Interior environment ages the Environmental Strategy and environmental targets related to operations. • Materials & recycling Product-related issues are governed by the Product Board, headed by the Senior Vice President Research and Development and the Senior Vice President Example of actions within Operations during 2011 Product Strategy and Vehicle Line Management. The Attribute Managers at R&D Zero environmental accidents have the operative responsibility. • Project to improve and specify environmental control in early phases. At environmental committee level, common environmental issues covering product, operations and communication are handled, e.g. audits, educations and reports. Water conservation and water emission performance (Water Footprint) • Complete analysis of operational blue water footprint performed for all production Training and awareness sites. Volvo Cars strives to make environmental issues a natural part of all relevant training • Gap analysis regarding BAT (Best Available Technology) performed for EU producand educational initiatives within the company. For example, a specific part of the tion sites. competence development programme followed by all employees who are training to become production team leaders relates to environmental issues. The expert The sooner the better competence within specific environmental issues is continuously kept up to date. Volvo Cars has developed a process that even more clearly involves the environment At the manufacturing site at Torslanda, Volvo Cars has an exhibition about clean in the start-up phase of a project. In the very early phases of a project checklists will compartment that is open to the public. External communication about our work be used to secure environmental involvement throughout. Volvo Cars strives for conand our environmental performance from the product perspective is conducted tinuous improvements, which is also an important objective within the environmental continuously through press releases and other communication material available on area. our website. During 2011 Volvo Cars, together with other Original Equipment Manufacturers Total Waste Management and the Automotive Industry Action Group (AIAG), conducted suppliers’ training in • Implementation of a new waste management process at all sites. Supply Chain Responsibility in selected countries. Environment is one topic in this training. The training was carried out in India and Turkey during 2011 and training in Sustainable Transport Solutions Mexico and China is planned for the first quarter of 2012. Volvo Cars is attaching ever-greater importance to Logistics and Transport procDuring 2011 Volvo Cars also held training for our own employees on sustainesses. High volume, long distance transportation is particularly suitable for switching ability and responsibility in general, including information about the supply chain. to alternative transport modes other than traditional trucks. Truck transportation This training was carried out in Belgium, China, the Czech Republic and Sweden, has been optimised for many years, resulting in a high degree of full loads, a better and about 400 employees took part. loading factor (more parts per pallet/rack) and an increased proportion of balanced loads. Volvo Cars is continuously exploring better alternatives and means of Monitoring and follow-up cooperation, for example regarding train transport. Our goal is to use sustainable Environmental objectives and action plans transport solutions not only to connect our stamping facilities with our car plants, Environmental objectives and action plans for operations are continuously followed but even more to connect operations in the East with those in the West. This effort up and reported in the systematic target-setting process. There is a systematic conencompasses both sea and land transport. nection between the management and shop floor level, which stimulates a strong commitment from all employees. Volvo Car Corporation – GRI Report 2011 19 Input materials Environmental management, ISO 14001 & environmental audits Amongst other goals, it is our aim to unify the composition of our car models in Volvo Cars has been ISO 14001 certified since the early 1990s. As required in the 2012 in order to allow for comparison within our portfolio. ISO 14001 standard, Volvo Cars has implemented a Business Management System (BMS) where a description of how Volvo Cars manages and runs the business is Energy and resource efficiency documented. The environmental focus areas (see above) are an integral part of the Limiting CO2 emissions is a challenge for all stakeholders in the automotive busiISO 14001 system. There is an annual review process to ensure the BMS is fully up ness and for Volvo Cars, being a relatively small player, the challenge is intriguing. to date. Every year an external auditor performs audits at Volvo Cars to ensure that Being a global company, we offer products that meet global customers’ demands the standards are met and opportunities for improvement are identified. while being compliant with legal requirements in all markets. This is a great challenge since different countries and regions set up different regulations on energy/ Environmental management among suppliers fuel use and CO2 emissions. Planning our product range therefore involves a careful The total life cycle of our products – from design and production, through handling analysis of the need to meet future legal regulations, in combination with a thorough and use, to end-of-life recycling – must be taken into account to reduce the analysis of foreseen customer expectations on our products. This is a demanding environmental footprint of our products. All suppliers globally play a major role in the task as the automotive industry has very long lead-times, where many years pass design and production of our cars. As such, every link in the value chain must be between initial planning and the launch of a new product. At Volvo Cars, however, we aligned to truly ensure environmental care. Approximately 60% (by value) of each see this challenge as an opportunity to offer contemporary luxury and driving pleascar is procured from external sources. Volvo Cars has approximately 400 business ure with good conscience. Volvo Cars annually monitor and follow up the progress in partners producing components for the cars, and a further 3,300 delivering other regard to CO2 emissions from our products. products and services. During 2010 and 2011, Volvo Cars developed a new Code of Conduct. The Interior environment Code of Conduct was communicated during 2011 to direct material and indirect To ensure that the materials used inside the vehicles are not harmful to human material suppliers – via Volvo Cars Supplier Portal, the Volvo Cars Purchasing Terms health or the environment, as well as to avoid using asthma-inducing and allergenic & Conditions and Volvo Cars’ Environmental Web guide. substances in our car interiors, we perform careful measurements in the first few During the past year Volvo Cars has worked to establish the new supplier years of the vehicles’ life. We do not perform measurement of interior compartment portal for all suppliers, which has the aim of streamlining communication between after several years of vehicle use, because materials do not emit volatile substances Volvo Cars and its suppliers. The portal also contains information about Volvo Cars’ after this time. demands and expectations in a range of areas, including that of Environment. One Volvo Cars cooperate with the Swedish Asthma and Allergy association (AAF) of the environmental requirements for suppliers is that suppliers supplying goods and work continuously to improve the interior of the vehicles. We measure our to Volvo Cars are required to be third party certified according to the environmental performance against the World Health Organisation’s recommended levels to make management standard ISO 14001. An Environmental Self-Assessment must also sure that the interiors of the vehicles have an environment as good as the WHO be filled in by each supplier and sent to Volvo Cars upon request. We also commuguidelines for outside air quality. We fulfil the AAF demands by ensuring that incomnicate and follow up our expectations through the Volvo Cars Quality Award through ing air fulfils WHO Air Quality Guideline, relating to NO2, particulate matter, CO, Excellence (VQE), in which environmental management and performance is one benzene, ozone and SO2. aspect that is evaluated. Volvo Cars has during 2011 developed a pilot audit project with the help of the Compliance company’s new risk assessment model. The project will be launched in the first The Director of Environmental Protection monitors compliance by Volvo Cars’ plants quarter of 2012, and suppliers will be followed up on a range of areas, of which Enworldwide with applicable environmental legislation. vironment is one. The outcome of the pilot project will inform the future development of Volvo Cars Purchasing Departments’ strategic work with audit. Procedures related to monitoring and corrective and preventive actions In supplier agreements, Volvo Cars reserves the right to conduct an audit upon Volvo Cars has a programme for internal audits concerning the environment, the advance written notice to all units producing goods or services for Volvo Cars, at any operational management system and legal compliance as well as dangerous goods, time. The company also reserves the right to appoint an independent third party of to monitor our operations and thus find scope for improvement. our choice to conduct audits in order to evaluate compliance with Purchasing Terms & Conditions, the Environmental Web guide and our Code of Conduct. Volvo Car Corporation – GRI Report 2011 20 Management approach 4.4 Job adaptation and rehabilitation The company will work to counteract the exclusion of people from the labour Labour practices and decent market and to prevent employees being sick-listed on a long-term basis. Adopting working conditions a holistic approach to the way staff are recruited, introduced and trained to create a good work environment, produces workplaces which are characterised by care and involvement. This means that managers, employees and trade union representatives Goals and performance feel that they are responsible for helping to adapt jobs and implement rehabilitation The Volvo Cars Scorecard, which presents our performance relating to our key programmes at an early stage. Every unit is to have guidelines and support routines performance indicators, is shown at the very beginning of our GRI Report as well as in the form of handbooks and documentation. The line organisation is to draw up at www.volvocars.com/sustainability objectives and plans of action and managers are to follow up the rehabilitation of every individual. The training of key persons in this area takes place continuously. Policies Volvo Cars’ policies on labour practices and decent working conditions concern dis4.5 Company health care crimination and bullying in the workplace and the working environment; see below. Company health care is an important resource with unique expertise which must be utilised. Company health care must focus on adapting the work to human abilities Work Environment Directive and needs and work at company, group and individual level. There must be a holistic 1. Summary approach, with the emphasis on prevention and providing support when it comes to The Work Environment Directive describes the valid work environment policy within rehabilitation. Company health care and fitness programmes should include activithe company. ties to stimulate good health and make employees aware of the value of improving their physical and mental health through their own strength and training. 2. Purpose Volvo Cars is a company which, with the active support of its management, focuses 4.6 Future work environment on environmental issues with the aim of improving the work environment and health The company is to work towards long-term plans, follow developments in its spheres & safety. The aim is that any work the company does should be characterised by of operation and utilise new research and development findings when it comes to respect for human beings and by employee empowerment with the opportunity for the work environment. The company is to follow, and whenever necessary assist in, constant development. Employee empowerment is an active relationship in every the work that is done by the authorities on different types of laws and standards, situation. It involves taking responsibility for oneself and for the good of every memand be prepared to participate in general studies and analyses. When it comes to ber of staff. In order to do this, the employees need to be aware of the operating technological development, the automobile manufacturers are well in the forefront conditions, feel involved in their work and have clearly defined areas of responsibility but Volvo Cars’ strength and competitive edge is the knowledge that quality cars are and authority. This results in greater commitment, while helping to enhance quality, built by people with a real commitment, working in a good environment. Focusing productivity and profitability and guarantee the company’s survival and job opportunion the employees’ environment and development, as well as the relationship with ties. Volvo Cars’ products are renowned for their quality, safety and environmental the external environment, will make it possible to create real harmony and a secure concern, and in these areas we aim to be world-class. It is also the company’s aim to future at Volvo Cars. attain world-class when it comes to the health and safety of its employees. Harassment at work directive 3. Concerned 1. Summary The document applies to all employees within Volvo Cars, (including subsidiaries This document describes the directive ‘Harassment at work’. globally). 2. Purpose 4. Directive The purpose of this document is to ensure that all employees know that Volvo Cars 4.1 Responsibility will not tolerate any instance of harassment at work. The document also describes The responsibility of managers and other members of staff must be defined, the responsibility of managers and employees in this context and what to do if approved and known. Any delegation by managers to staff members must be harassment at work has occurred. documented. Every member of staff must assume personal responsibility for matters relating to health, the work environment and safety. Everyone is obliged to follow all 3. Concerned instructions and routines and to be on the alert for possible safety risks and ensure The document applies to all employees within Volvo Cars (including subsidiaries that they are eliminated. globally). 4.2 Quality assurance – internal control 4. Directive There must be effective systems for handling work environment issues in an active, 4.1 General satisfactory manner in line operations. In matters relating to the work environment, Volvo Cars will not tolerate any instance of abusive discrimination against anyone the company must be at the forefront when it comes to complying with the authoriwithin the company. According to the company work environment directive, its goal ties’ internal control requirements. Every employee must take into account internais ‘that all work within the company is to be characterised by respect for all humans tional guidelines and standards for the work environment and external environment and by cooperation with opportunities for continuous development’. in his/her work. All ‘medarbetare’ – a Swedish expression for active and constructive employees – must abide by the company philosophy, which states that abusive discrimination is 4.3 Work environment programmes not acceptable. Showing respect for our fellow humans and staying informed about Plans of action and objectives for the work environment must be approved by the relevant laws provides us with a framework for good ethics and proper moral standwork environment/industrial safety committees organised in the line organisation. ards in dealing with others. It is also important that all ‘medarbetare’ discuss abusive Processes, products and working methods which reduce the load on the individual discrimination and its consequences for the individual, the team and the organisaand the environment are to be given precedence over other alternatives. Special attion. This directive must be considered a governing document. tention is to be paid to the work climate, management issues, group interaction and psychosocial questions so that problems can be dealt with at an early stage. The 4.2 Responsibility focus should be on prevention so that suitable action can be taken at the earliest ‘The employer must plan and organise work in a manner which, as far as possible, opportunity. prevents the occurrence of abusive discrimination.’ It is also the responsibility of every employee to actively oppose all abusive discrimination at the workplace. Volvo Car Corporation – GRI Report 2011 21 4.3 Definitions that every citizen (and resident) is aware of, and follows, the laws, ordinances and According to the law, abusive discrimination is ‘recurring deplorable or negatively regulations that affect his/her own organisation. In a legal case, not being aware charged actions aimed at individual employees in an abusive manner, which may of an applicable regulation is not considered as an extenuating circumstance. The result in these individuals becoming ostracised from the workplace community’. employer bears the ultimate responsibility that the work environment will not pose These acts may have been carried out by employees or by employers themselves, or a risk of ill health or accidents to employees, and that the working environment is any of their representatives. generally good. This means protecting employees’ health by preventing the risk of The following are some examples of abusive discrimination: accidents, work-related ill health, etc. • slander or defamation of an employee or his or her family, The employer must create a suitable, structured working environment jointly with • deliberately withholding work-related information or providing misleading employees; including work adaptation and rehabilitation efforts. Safety officers funcinformation related to work, tion as representatives of the employees and must work to promote a satisfactory • deliberate sabotage or making work more difficult, work environment. • obviously insulting, ostracising, boycotting or disregarding the employee, Employees participate in work environment matters by, for example, reporting • persecution of various kinds, including threats and the instilling of fear, degradarisks, ill health, accidents and potential accidents. This can lead to remedial actions tion, sexual harassment, and provides feedback on measures. It is important that employers reach agreement • deliberate insults, exaggerated criticism, or negative treatment or attitudes (ridicule, with employees as to how joint action can be achieved on working environment anti-social behaviour, etc.), measures. This could entail workplace meetings and joint assessment of the work• monitoring the employee without his or her knowledge and with malicious intent, ing environment. • degrading ‘administrative punitive sanctions’ which are suddenly directed against The safety officer, a union representative, is involved in the planning and an individual employee without any basis in fact, explanation or attempt at jointly implementation of measures. This involves studying working conditions, planning solving a possible fundamental problem. The sanctions may, for instance, take the remedial actions and conducting an annual follow-up. The safety officer is a vital form of groundless withdrawal of use of office space or duties, unexplained project resource and an agent of change, and must take part in the initial stages of transfers or overtime demands, and obvious obstructions in the processing of such measures. applications for job training or leave of absence. Corporate health and safety comprises a professional resource within Volvo Cars to achieve legal compliance and meet Volvo Cars’ goals within this area, 4.4 Quality assurance – internal audit primarily concerning preventive measures. These may include investigations, risk The company must have established procedures within the organisation/unit, which assessments, proposals for remedial measures and personnel training. Each division will provide early warning of unsatisfactory working conditions and remedy these. In within Volvo Cars is required to employ a health and safety specialist to coordinate addition, there should be procedures for identifying problems in work organisation or and manage its health and safety efforts, including those of the Work Environment an unsatisfactory state of affairs in working together, which may give rise to abusive Committee. In addition, the company contracts an external health service company discrimination. with medical and technical professionals who assist with surveys, assessments and If there are signs of abusive discrimination corrective actions must be taken imadvice. mediately with subsequent follow-up. In connection with this, an investigation must be made into whether the way the work is organised may have contributed to the Organisation problem. Any employee who has been subjected to abusive discrimination must be The Work Environment Committee given immediate help and support. The employer must have special guidelines for The Work Environment Committee has 12 members and meets at least four times this situation. a year. It includes representatives of the company and employee organisations. Abusive discrimination must always be investigated. Responsibility for this rests The committee’s mission is to develop the company’s working environment policy with the manager or supervisor. The results of the investigation may lead to discipliand to ensure compliance. The committee also encourages the line organisations nary actions. In development chats and in daily work, special attention will be paid to to develop goals and action plans relating to the work environment, and works to the work climate, management issues, group coordination and psychosocial quesenhance cooperation within the company and the industry. tions. This policy will take into consideration and reflect EU guidelines and standards regarding abusive discrimination. The Safety Review Board The Safety Review Board (SRB) has full management authority to review and take 4.5 If abusive discrimination has occurred decisions on all aspects of health and safety within its purview. The intention is to To obtain help and support contact: standardise this forum as a management safety tool throughout Volvo Cars. As such, • the immediate supervisor/manager it complements the Work Environment Committee. The Safety Review Board meets • the human resources department once a month. The standing items on the agenda are: • a trade union organisation • review of serious incidents, • the company health service • review of safety Key Performance Indicators (KPI), • a person one particularly trusts • identification and sharing of best practice. • a public health doctor or nurse, psychologist or similar professional. Safety Review Board meetings are held at two levels: the unit/shop level and site/ All the above are ethically and morally sworn to secrecy. The company health plant level. Unit/shop meetings provide a preparatory forum for site/plant Safety services must be operated in accordance with scientific and well-tested experience. Review Board meetings. Their personnel are subject to the same secrecy requirements as the corresponding staff in the public health services. The Global Diversity Council The Global Diversity Council consists of eleven Diversity Champions and meets 4.6 Volvo Cars an attractive place to work! bi-monthly. A Diversity Champion has been appointed for each business area in the Volvo Cars is a company that views the different skills, experience, ages, gender, and company to better integrate diversity work into the company’s operations. Chaired nationalities of their people as an asset. By utilising these differences we can cope by the Diversity manager, the role of the council is to pursue diversity issues in the with the constant changes within and without the company. Volvo Cars represents company and support Volvo Cars’ diversity efforts, focusing on concrete actions. reliability, safety, respect for the individual, and the world in which we live. With a The steering group consists of the Diversity manager and representatives from the secure work environment we can live up to these standards. management team, who meet four times a year with the aim of securing continuous improvement of diversity work. Organisational responsibility The most senior position responsible for labour practices and decent working conditions is the Senior Vice President Human Resources. In Sweden the basic rule is Volvo Car Corporation – GRI Report 2011 22 Training and awareness who are enthusiastic about work and the employer’ while ‘Clarity’ stands for ‘EmployTo complete a task successfully, anyone undertaking that task must have the ees see the link between corporate goals and individual goals, and understand how necessary knowledge and experience. In addition to skill, an adequate knowledge they contribute’. of working environment issues is also required. The employer is responsible for The Net Promoter Score (NPS) has been used for several years. It measures the ensuring that those assigned these tasks have sufficient knowledge about the number of ambassadors within the organisation by asking the question ‘How likely is regulations that apply to the working environment and the physical, psychological it that you would recommend Volvo Cars to a friend as a place to work?’ In previous and social circumstances that may increase the risk of unhealthy consequences and years, the NPS has been reported as a global value, but in 2011 Volvo Cars has accidents. They should also be knowledgeable on measures for the prevention of chosen to report this value internally per department and at the same time make unhealthy situations and accidents and should strive to promote a satisfactory work the result transparent to the whole organisation. In addition to a quantitative answer, environment. each employee gets the opportunity to add a free text comment to motivate their Within Volvo Cars’ basic work environment, training and supplementary training answers. This gives us important information on how we can improve our internal is offered to safety representatives and first line managers. Middle managers are employer brand status. offered two days of working environment training and senior managers a half-day introduction. Key successes and shortcomings During 2010, Volvo Cars carried out a number of training courses for our Sick leave among Volvo Cars’ employees in Sweden and Belgium has been falling employees. Approximately 75 people participated in a training programme for new slowly but steadily over the past few years. In 2010 and 2011 we recorded the allmanagers, which included courses on diversity, discrimination law and psychosocial time low figure of 4.4% sickness absenteeism. work environment. All managers within Volvo Cars Manufacturing, Torslanda also We will also continue to monitor work-related accidents carefully and to follow attended courses on anti-harassment during the year. Also in 2010, Volvo Cars up all injuries, working to achieve improvement and avoid future occurrences. In launched a diversity training course for all managers, project leaders and communi2011, we reached a result of 0.7 LTCR (the number of injuries resulting in at least cators. The full diversity training concept was rolled out in 2011. one day of sick leave per 200,000 hours worked). Diversity issues have a high priority at Volvo Cars. There is a trend towards better Monitoring and follow up gender balance in leading positions, with the proportion of women in leadership poManagement system sitions increasing from 12% in 2002 to 21% by the end of 2011. The new diversity Volvo Cars has a management system for systematic work with, and follow-up of, plans were implemented in 2010 (valid for 2010–2012) and included a series of working environment issues. All workplaces are screened regularly by managers and activities to accelerate progress towards increased diversity and to utilise the diverSafety Officers and deviations are corrected. Risk assessments on different levels sity within the company. For example, an extensive training programme for managers and topics are standard procedures and used throughout the company. Injuries, started in 2010 and will continue during 2011 and early 2012. The diversity and illnesses and near misses are investigated and reported as soon as possible after inclusion index was implemented in the attitude survey 2010 and will give measures they occur. Serious and potentially serious incidents require immediate action, and on both diversity and inclusion. deeper investigation by the investigation tool 8D is mandatory. This investigation is conducted by the Safety Engineer. The Green Cross Management approach The Green Cross (GC) tool provides a visual means for following up workplace Human rights injuries. This is based on the instructions detailed in our ‘Work Environment Incident Reporting Investigation’ document. The tool consists of a cross, divided into 31 Goals and performance squares corresponding to the days in a month, and a map of the work area. Work The Volvo Cars Scorecard, which presents our performance relating to our key injuries per day are marked on the cross. Locations of work injuries and near misses performance indicators, is shown at the very beginning of our GRI Report as well as are marked on the map. at www.volvocars.com/sustainability The intention is to show at a glance the number of accidents and near misses Volvo Cars is aware of its social responsibility and strives always to combine at a unit. The tool can be used at all levels and departments within the unit. The business advantages with social and environmental responsibility. Respecting and overall purpose is to ensure that the risk of workplace injuries is minimised through honouring human rights are an important part of Volvo Cars and its operations. The investigations, preventive actions and reporting. The tool can be used by all units provisions and guidelines on human rights found in Volvo Cars’ Code of Conduct, within Volvo Cars. which guides the operations of Volvo Cars, are also expected to be followed by Volvo Unit managers decide where the tool is to be implemented within their units and Cars’ suppliers and dealers, as well as all other representatives that conduct busiare responsible for implementation and ensuring that the tool is used in accordance ness on behalf of the company. with the instructions. Managers at this level who have decided to use the Green During 2011, Volvo Cars developed our first Code of Conduct as a standalone Cross are responsible for keeping the tool updated and for following up measures company. The code sets forth the guiding principles of all Volvo Cars’ employees, all and results. The status of incident reports (number of incidents, number of open and suppliers the company does business with, all dealers that sell the products of Volvo closed investigations) is tracked at daily or weekly Green Cross meetings and/or Cars as well as all other representatives that conduct business on behalf of the once a month as a Key Performance Indicator. company. The Code of Conduct was approved by the Board on 22 February 2011 All open incident investigations must be kept available close to the map of the and is available on www.volvocars.com/sustainability. Volvo Cars also developed its work area. Investigations may not be removed and filed until they have been closed. Code of Conduct Handbook containing ethical guidelines for its employees, which Closed workplace injury/ near miss investigations must be managed in accordance was launched in February 2012. The new Volvo Cars Code of Conduct summawith the instructions. rises the company’s most fundamental values and rules that apply generally to our global operations. The Code of Conduct rests on international conventions for Global People Survey measures human rights and labour rights as well as international guidelines for multinational Diversity and harassment issues are followed up in accordance with our annual companies. employee survey, the Global People Survey (GPS). The GPS includes important More specifically the Code of Conduct is set out to comply with the following measurements and is used as a key indicator to track our progress towards reaching conventions, laws and guidelines: our aspired culture and key objectives, including being an Employer of Choice. • The eight core conventions of the UN agency the International Labour OrganisaIn previous years, the annual employee survey was called the Volvo Attitude tion: Child Labour (138 and 182), Forced Labour and Compulsory Labour (29 Survey, and the Employee Satisfaction Index (ESI) was used to measure employee and 105), Equal Remuneration and Discrimination (100 and 111), Freedom of satisfaction. In 2011, the survey was renamed the Global People Survey and Volvo Association and Collective Bargaining (87 and 98) Cars shifted from measuring satisfaction among the employees to focusing on • The ten principles of the Global Compact employee engagement. The reason for this shift from satisfaction to engagement • The Universal Declaration of Human Rights is that we want to set goals and measure how we perform in relation to our aspired • UN Convention on the Rights of the Child culture, which is characterised by engagement. Engagement is measured by • OECD guidelines for multinational companies aspects such as energy and clarity. ‘Energy’ stands for ‘Motivated, proud employees Volvo Car Corporation – GRI Report 2011 23 Diversity and equal opportunity In 2011 a total of 953 supplier visitors were registered on the supplier portal Volvo Cars recognises diversity and inclusion as crucial for success and is commitSustainability site. From 2003 to 2009 a number of Volvo Cars’ suppliers and busited to equal opportunity in employment. We believe in people and embrace differness partners underwent screening on human rights under a programme driven by ences and experiences. Our hiring policies and practices require that there be no Ford Motor Company. None of Volvo Cars’ suppliers or contractors were excluded or discrimination because of gender, ethnicity, religion or other belief, political opinion, subjected to performance conditions or other sanctions as a result of human rights disability, sexual orientation, age or other characteristics protected by applicable screening. During 2010 and 2011, Volvo Cars Purchasing Department has been law. One important principle in our commitment to having a diverse and inclusive developing a company-specific strategy for Volvo Cars’ continued activities with its workplace is the Company’s zero tolerance of harassment. Victimisation at work is supply chain relating to human rights. One base initiative that has been developed not permitted. All employees are required to treat each other with dignity, respect during 2011 is communicating the company’s demands and expectations in terms and courtesy. of human rights through the new supplier portal and through training of suppliers in selected countries. The training was conducted in collaboration with other automoFreedom of Association and Collective Bargaining tive OEMs and AIAG (Automotive Industry Action Group). During 2011 training was Volvo Cars recognises the right of all employees to form or join associations of carried out in India and Turkey, and training in Mexico and China is planned for the their own choosing concerning the relationship between the employer and the first quarter of 2012. employees, and to bargain collectively. The company does not tolerate disciplinary or Volvo Cars has also conducted manufacturing site assessments of new and curdiscriminatory actions from the employer against employees who choose to peacerent suppliers to review the suppliers’ manufacturing processes, including health and fully and lawfully organise or join an association. The company respects voluntary safety and risk management. These assessments were carried out by the Supplier organisation by, for example, allowing the collection of union dues on company Technical Assistance department within Purchasing. The company is also investigatpremises, posting of trade union notices, distribution of union documents, and proviing the possibilities of integrating working conditions into the assessment. sion of office space. Volvo Cars reserves the right to conduct an audit upon advance written notice to all units producing goods or services for Volvo Cars, at any time. The company Child Labour also reserves the right to appoint an independent third party of its choice to conduct Child labour is not accepted in any of Volvo Cars’ businesses. Volvo Cars does not audits in order to evaluate compliance with Purchasing Terms & Conditions, the accept the use of child labour by any supplier, dealer or subcontractor. In no event Company’s Social Responsibility web guide and our Code of Conduct. During will the company employ any person below the age of 15, unless this is part of a 2011 Volvo Cars has developed a pilot audit project based on the company’s new government-authorised job training or apprenticeship programme that would be country risk segmentation model. The project will be launched in the first half of clearly beneficial to those participating. 2012, and suppliers will be followed up on a range of areas, including human rights. The outcome of the pilot project will inform the future development of Volvo Cars Forced Labour Purchasing Department’s strategic work with audits. Forced labour is not accepted in any of Volvo Cars’ businesses. Volvo Cars shall not Another project which Volvo Cars has focused on during 2011 is developengage in or support the use of forced labour, nor shall any employee be required ing a strategic process for self-assessment of, for example, human rights, for the to deposit identity papers when commencing employment with the Company. Volvo company’s suppliers. Cars shall guarantee that all working conditions comply with all statutory requirements. Complaints and grievances practices Compensation Volvo Cars has a well established process to report a so-called ‘unusual event’ (a Wages and benefits shall always be fully comparable with legal or industry standsituation that appears to violate the company’s ethical guidelines) to ensure that ards. Information on wages and benefits shall be available to employees in accordincidents that violate the Code of Conduct are reported without fear of reprisal. ance with applicable law. All employees of Volvo Cars have a responsibility and are expected to report any non-compliance with the Code of Conduct to the appropriate representative within Health and Safety the company, i.e. Human Resources, Internal Control, Legal Department or Security Volvo Cars and its business partners shall provide and maintain a safe and healthy Department. On Volvo Cars’ Intranet there is an Incident Reporting Tool available work environment that meets or exceeds applicable standards and legal requirefor reporting of unusual events and non-compliance. Volvo Cars has a policy of ments. Safety should always be one of the most important factors in any decision. non-retaliation, which implies that retaliation is forbidden towards any employee who raises an issue in good faith, or who cooperates in a company investigation of an Working Hours issue. All employees have the right to report any non-compliance anonymously. Volvo Cars shall comply with national legislation on working hours. Suppliers are also able to contact Volvo Cars on sustainability and responsibility issues via email through the company’s Supplier Portal. During 2011 Volvo Cars Supply Chain started the process of developing an external ‘whistle-blowing’ function for employAbout 40% (by value) of the materials needed for each car are manufactured in our ees as well as for suppliers, dealers and other business partners. own facilities. The remaining 60% are purchased from external sources. Volvo Cars has approximately 400 business partners producing components for our cars, and a Responsibility and implementation further 3,300 delivering other products and services. Volvo Cars communicated its new Code of Conduct to all employees during 2011. During 2010 and 2011, Volvo Cars developed a new Code of Conduct for the The company also communicated the new Code of Conduct and the company’s recompany’s employees, suppliers and dealers. The Code of Conduct was communiquirement and expectations to its suppliers during the year. Volvo Cars is also a part cated during 2011 to suppliers – of both direct material and indirect material – via of a collaboration with other automakers to seek a common approach to working Volvo Supplier Portal, the Volvo Cars Purchasing Terms & Conditions and Volvo conditions and human rights in the automotive supply chain and the company did, Cars’ Social Responsibility Web guide. During the last year Volvo Cars has also for example, conduct training of its suppliers in India and Turkey during 2011. established a new supplier portal for all suppliers, with the aim of streamlining All personnel must know and comply with all company directives and legal communication between the company and its suppliers. The portal also contains requirements related to their work. However, governing law, labour contracts, and the information about Volvo Cars’ demands and expectations on suppliers in a range of application of special directives can vary around the world. For that reason separate areas. The demands and expectations within the area of human rights, for example, regulations may apply that are specific for a country or region. If local law or labour cover topics such as: contracts conflict with company directives, then local law and labour contracts take • Diversity and equal opportunity priority. When necessary and appropriate, Volvo Cars establishes and complies • Health and Safety with standards of our own, which may go beyond legal requirements. If national or • Child labour international law, industry standards and this code address the same subject, the • Forced labour stricter regulation shall apply. • Freedom of association and collective bargaining • Compensation • Working hours Volvo Car Corporation – GRI Report 2011 24 Organisational responsibility with various stakeholders, Volvo Cars does not differentiate between authorities and The Senior Vice President Purchasing is responsible for supporting and managing other type of organisations, but acts in the same way to establish access to politisocial responsibility and environmental issues related to the supply chain. The Senior cians, authorities and institutions. Vice President Human Resources is responsible for human rights issues concerning employees. Stakeholder dialogues Our most important stakeholders are our customers, employees, suppliers and dealTraining and awareness and monitoring and follow-up ers, our owner the (Zhejiang Geely Holding Group), and the communities in which A web-based compliance training programme was introduced in May 2011. The we operate. Public agencies, non-governmental organisations (NGOs) and other inprogramme included a training module on the topic ‘Combating bribery in Business’. terests that influence market structures are also important in this context. Volvo Cars This training, which was mandatory for all white-collar employees, aimed to give maintains relationships with various stakeholders that influence or are influenced by employees insight and practical examples regarding corruption prevention. By the our operations. Each of these groups presents a special responsibility and our aim is end of March 2012, more than 8,200 Volvo Car employees had completed the to be, and to be perceived as, a responsible player in all of our relationships. training. In addition to the web-based training, classroom training was provided to all We believe in dialogue with others and therefore participate in various networks, employees in China covering the various aspects of the Code of Conduct, including seminars and conferences to hear the views of others and to inform them about our a brief introduction to the Code of Conduct Handbook. work. We also encourage interested parties to contact us through, for example, our In 2011 and 2012, training was conducted in Corporate Social Responsibility, website at www.volvocars.com/sustainability or by email to citizen@volvocars.com. sustainability and the Global Compact for the entire Volvo Cars Purchasing department. The purpose of this training is to raise awareness of social responsibility and The main objectives of our stakeholder dialogues are to: human rights in general and more specifically in relation to Volvo Cars’ supply chain, • obtain a better understanding of how stakeholders in a given region see sustainas well as to increase employees’ risk awareness within the area. A total of 10 ability issues evolving over the next 15 years and how this may affect the automotraining sessions for the Purchasing Department have taken place in the followtive sector and Volvo Cars, ing locations : Gothenburg (7), Prague (audio/WebEx) (1), Ghent (audio/WebEx) • obtain external views on the future of different sustainability issues, (1) and Shanghai (January 2012) (1). In 2011, 400 employees in the Purchasing • build new relationships between Volvo Cars and leading opinion-makers. Department were trained, representing approximately 80% of the department’s staff. Material from the training has also been distributed to all staff in the PurchasVolvo Cars is represented in a large number of groups and organisations pursuing ing Department. Volvo Cars will continue to inform and train employees within the or monitoring various issues at local, regional and national levels. We also monitor department on our work procedures regarding human rights and supply chain in developments within the EU through our presence in Brussels. For Volvo Cars, accordance with set strategies. sustainability reporting is a way of demonstrating transparency and engaging in dialogue with stakeholders. The reporting process provides an annual opportunity for discussion, evaluation and reflection, supporting our efforts to develop our business Management approach sustainably. Society Organisational responsibility The most senior position responsible for policies and procedures related to corrupPreviously Volvo Cars followed Ford Motor Company’s Code of Conduct including its tion, anti-competitive behaviour and legal compliance is the Senior Vice President underlying policies. In February 2011 Volvo Cars’ Code of Conduct was introduced General Counsel. The most senior position responsible for public policy is the Senior and adopted by the Board of Directors. The Code of Conduct is a policy documents Vice President Public Affairs. that outlines what Volvo Cars stands for as a company. It also summarises the major company directives and instructions that apply generally to our global operations. Training and awareness A web-based compliance training programme was introduced during 2011. The Goals and performance programme included a module on the topic ‘Combating bribery in Business’. This The Volvo Cars Scorecard, which presents our performance relating to our key training, which was mandatory for all white-collar employees, gives employees performance indicators, is shown at the very beginning of our GRI Report as well as insight and practical examples regarding corruption prevention. In addition to the at www.volvocars.com/sustainability web-based training, classroom training courses were held for all employees in China covering the various aspects of the Code of Conduct, including a brief introduction Policies to the Code of Conduct Handbook. The anti-bribery training course was the first one Bribery and corruption in a series of three courses in the current compliance training programme which will In 2011, we implemented the Volvo Cars Code of Conduct, which includes the combe conducted during 2011–2012. The other two courses are on Competition Law pany’s policy regarding bribery and corruption and details the rules governing what and Volvo Cars’ Code of Conduct. The compliance training programme will continue gifts an employee may accept. The Code of Conduct, which also deals with antitrust after the first three courses, and employees will undergo annual training on issues laws and equal competition as well as community involvement and non-compliance, of corruption prevention, Code of Conduct and similar topics as needs are identified. is available to all employees both on the intranet and on www.volvocars.com/sustainability. The company’s ethical values are captured in one sentence: ‘integrity is Monitoring and follow-up never compromised’. The company’s Code of Conduct includes policies on bribery and corruption, and During 2011 the company worked on developing a more detailed and compublic policy. A web-based compliance training programme was introduced during prehensive Code of Conduct handbook for employees, with guidelines on what is 2011 and during the year all white-collar employees underwent training on bribery expected and required of all employees while they work for Volvo Cars. Parts of the prevention. The compliance training programme will continue and all employees handbook focus on integrity, especially with regard to relations with governments, will undergo annual training courses on issues such as bribery and corruption, antibusiness relations and the use of company information. The Volvo Cars Code of competitive behaviour and compliance. These courses also give details as of who Conduct handbook was launched to all employees of the company in February policy violations should be reported to. In addition, Volvo Cars has a well established 2012. process to report a so-called ‘unusual event’ to ensure that all incidents are reported without fear of reprisal. Suppliers are also able to contact Volvo Cars on sustainabilPublic policy ity and responsibility issues by email through the company’s Supplier Portal. Volvo Cars does not have a formal policy on public policy development or lobbying, During 2011 Volvo Cars started the process of developing an external ‘whistlebut its Code of Conduct, states that the name of the company shall not be used in blowing‘ function (for employees as well as for suppliers, dealers and other business political campaigns or for the benefit of a specific political interest. In our dialogues partners). Volvo Car Corporation – GRI Report 2011 25 Management Approach Research, training and awareness To fully understand what makes accidents happen in the first place, Volvo Cars Product responsibility conducts internal and external research projects like the EuroFOT, DRIVE C2X and SAFER. EuroFOT (Field Operational Tests) and DRIVE C2X are examples of projects Goals and performance conducted together with other actors from the automotive industry, while SAFER is The Volvo Cars Scorecard, which presents our performance relating to our key a project at Chalmers University of Technology. performance indicators, is shown at the very beginning of our GRI Report as well as In EuroFOT, about 100 Volvo V70 and XC70 cars are equipped with cameras at www.volvocars.com/sustainability and computers to monitor the driver’s behaviour in order to gain more knowledge Product responsibility is shared operationally between Research & Developabout how we react as human beings in complex traffic situations. DRIVE C2X ment and Quality. Company policies stipulate the company’s responsibility to ensure focuses on communication among vehicles (C2C) and between vehicles, a roadside adherence to procedures. Volvo Cars’ goal relating to product safety is that in 2020, and backend infrastructure system (C2I). no one will be killed or injured in a new Volvo. Volvo Cars’ cooperation with Chalmers University of Technology has the aim of sharing our own knowledge about car safety issues and creating a forum where we Quality can gain knowledge ourselves. The platform called SAFER is a place where different Quality is one of six focus areas for Volvo Cars, with the aim of becoming a top tier stakeholders can channel research issues relating to safety as well as obtain further luxury brand. A new Quality Policy for Volvo Cars has been decided, adherence to qualifications within safety research. People from Volvo Cars as well as students, rethis policy will assure that we continuously strive to provide our customers with searchers and teachers meet to discuss safety issues at an academic level. External premium products and services of the highest quality, ensuring sustainable success. competence development campaigns are also directed towards our dealers and we organise seminars and lectures on how we work with safety issues for journalists ‘Quality Transformation’ and governmental authorities. Volvo Cars is currently in the midst of a major change process for quality. The aim with ´Quality Transformation´ is to increase awareness of quality and to make this Monitoring and follow-up issue a general concern for everyone. The objective is as simple as difficult: Volvo The customer can monitor our cars’ safety performance in various ways. Three Cars shall deliver much higher quality, for its cars and at every stage of customer different independent rating programmes help provide the customer with safety service as well as for all internal deliveries. information – crash performance based on crash testing and executed by rating ‘Quality Transformation’ is the biggest quality-improvement program in the cominstitute, field ratings based on real-life accidents, for example provided by insurance pany’s history. It is a company-wide initiative to raise the quality of the company’s companies, and evaluations based on expert opinions. operational performance, both internally and externally. The quality department The Volvo way of working is to enhance and evolve traffic safety based on has established 14 high-priority areas which together cover most of the company’s knowledge and facts about the human being in real traffic situations and to underoperations; from product planning to aftermarket. stand how and why the different situations occur. Our own Traffic Accident Research team, established in 1970, has collected accident data from more than 40,000 acciSafety policy dents in Volvo cars in Sweden – valuable information that is applied when designing ‘Cars are driven by people’. The guiding principle behind everything we make at new Volvo cars. Performing accident reconstructions in our state-of-the-art crash Volvo, therefore, is and must remain: safety. This is our heritage and guiding principle laboratory gives us unique knowledge for further development. for the future. Close collaboration with the Swedish insurance company Volvia also helps Safety is one of the core values of Volvo Cars and one of the fundamentals in provide detailed information about incidents and the outcome of accidents with the corporate strategy ‘Designed Around You’. Our mission is to strengthen our Volvo cars in Sweden. One of the most important components of our successful commitment to and maintain leadership in safety by achieving top performance, in safety work is our continuous work process which starts and ends in the real traffic real life situations as well as in official safety ratings. environment. The safety policy states that we should provide our customers with the highest level of safety and maintain our leadership in safety in the car industry. Safety is one Knowledge based on holistic view of safety of Volvo Cars’ core values. We work hard to stay at the forefront of the industry by Our safety philosophy is characterised by a human-centric, holistic view. Safety taking an overall approach to safety, which has proven effective to the customer in offers are created in an intelligent and innovative way, enhancing people’s wellbeing real traffic situations. We consider numerous aspects of safety and develop them by helping to prevent collisions and reduce the consequences when collisions are continuously. We created intelligent and innovative solutions aimed at preventing acunavoidable. cidents and reducing the consequences when they nonetheless occur. Our strategy Road safety is a product of the road user, together with vehicle characteristics includes a comprehensive dialogue with several stakeholder groups in society. We and the traffic infrastructure such as roads, roundabouts, traffic lights and separating choose to cooperate with the best partners possible when it comes to academic roads for motor vehicles, cyclists and pedestrians. Our broad in-depth knowledge institutions and we maintain a very close dialogue with local authorities around the gained from both internal and external sources based on real traffic situations forms world. the foundation of our development. Many of the safety systems presented over the All cars, accessories and relevant services must not only meet, but exceed, our years build on know-how gained from the work carried out for over 40 years by customers’ expectations when it comes to safety. Our broad in-depth knowledge is Volvo Cars Accident Research Team by documenting, analysing and reconstructing the foundation of our development efforts and derives from real traffic situations. We traffic incidents and accidents involving Volvo cars in Sweden. gain our knowledge from both internal and external sources, and apply it to develop Our work to improve vehicle safety is carried out in five phases from normal advanced and intelligent systems. The objective is to warn drivers of potential acdriving to after collision. These five phases are Normal driving, Conflict, Avoidance, cidents and to take action when drivers are not able to. Our know-how also allows Crash and After collision and are shown in figure, page 35. us to effectively develop robust and protective designs. Organisational responsibility The Senior Vice President Marketing Sales and Service is the most senior position responsible for product and service labelling, marketing sales and service and for marketing communications. The most senior position responsible for customer privacy and legal compliance is the Senior Vice President General Counsel. Volvo Car Corporation – GRI Report 2011 26 Performance indicators Economic performance 2012. It is not easy to estimate the future effects and total financial impact on Volvo Cars as a consequence of the changing markets, but the company is prepared to take on the challenge of developing new, efficient techniques. Potential economic risks to our business operations, affecting profitability, include increased raw material EC1 Direct economic value generated and prices, rising oil prices and currency exchange fluctuations. distributed Limiting CO2 emissions and curbing climate change is a tough challenge, not least for the automotive industry and a company like Volvo Cars. However, we are deterVolvo Cars saw growth in all sales regions during 2011. Retail sales increased by mined to meet this challenge and we also expect other key players to contribute. 20.3% to 449 255 units over full year 2010. China showed the largest increase Although our environmental improvements and efforts to reduce climate impact fowith 54.4% over 2010. North America grew by 22.5%, the Nordic region by 13.3%, cus mainly on vehicle development, they also encompass the environmental effects Europe by 13.1% and the Overseas region by 35.7% compared to 2010. Market of our production facilities and logistics flows. Limiting climate change and making shares improved in all regions. Improved sales are mainly driven by strong demand the best possible use of the Earth’s resources will require innovative cooperation for the 60-series; the Volvo S60 and V60 together with the XC60 crossover. Sales between all stakeholders – nationally and internationally. Climate change therefore of the low-CO2 DRIVe models continue to boost sales in Europe. The year 2020 poses a major challenge but also a great opportunity for technical development. global sales target is 800 000 sales and the growth plan for the Chinese market is We have a long tradition of developing systems and functions for our cars that have vital to achieve this goal. benefited society in general. The Lambda sensor (a three-way catalytic converter) and the three-point seat belt are Volvo Cars inventions that have become standard EC1 Total sales, revenues and earnings before interest and tax in cars worldwide. 2011 Sustainable mobility can be defined as the ability to meet the needs of society Total sales (retail deliveries) 449,255 to move freely, gain access, communicate, trade and establish relationships without Revenue (BSEK) 125.5 Earnings before interest and taxes (MSEK) 1,636 sacrificing other essential human or ecological values today or in the future. At Volvo Cars we take the view that mobility should not be achieved at the expense of the Financial Reporting Structure environment or other social values. We include safety in our definition of sustainThe financial statements reflect Volvo Car Group defined as Volvo Car Corporation, able mobility and our overriding objective is to develop cars that are both safe and its parent company and all subsidiaries. This includes all national sales companies environmentally sound. including China, Volvo China Investment Co Ltd, and Volvo Cars Technology Shanghai. Minority interests, such as the manufacturing operations in China, are reflected according to the ownership stake in the business. Environmental performance Accounting principle Volvo Car Corporation has transitioned to IFRS accounting principles, with full EN1 Materials used by weight or volume implementation as of 2012. As a consequence, results are not fully comparable with the operating EBIT announced historically. In prior communication, the operating Our material usage is determined by the design requirements for each and every results excluded special items, adjustments according to IFRS such as capitalization part in our cars. We use the global Restricted Substance Management Standard requirements and purchase price adjustments. (RSMS) to prohibit substances toxic to human health or the environment. In addition to supplier reporting whereby the material content of all parts is detailed on a data For a more detailed financial report, please visit our webpage where the Financial sheet, dismantled parts are studied. Report 2011 can be downloaded. One of the overall goals in our work with product material is to reduce the total vehicle weight, partly because this lowers fuel consumption and gives a reduction of the overall CO2 emissions when the vehicle is in use. In this work, increased use of EC2 Financial implications and other risks and lightweight metals and composites materials is one approach. The long-term strategy for reducing material intensity within the operations is to opportunities for the organisation’s activities due increase the amount of sustainable material; in other words renewable and recycled to climate change content. A Volvo car, model S80, basically consists of the materials shown in tables Climate change is one of the greatest threats to our planet. It has an impact on EN1:1 and EN1:2. society and the natural environment. It is clear that anthropogenic emissions of greenhouse gases must be drastically reduced. Currently, some 24% of global anthropogenic greenhouse gas emissions come from transport. About half of these EN1:1 Composition of a Volvo S80 (kg) Total weight without fuel 1,661 are from road transport (according to the IEA and the OECD). To be environmentally Metals 1,258 sustainable, the vehicles of the future will have to be very efficient and capable of Thermoplastic resin 183 Thermosetting resin 33 running on renewable fuels. Elastomer 70 Responding to the challenges of climate change is fundamental to Volvo Cars. Glass pure 42 The question is given highest priority and is addressed at the senior governance Liquids 36 Other 39 level. Reducing energy consumption and the dependence on fossil fuels is critical to the company’s survival. For Volvo Cars, there are a number of different dimensions to the issue. InEN1:2 Composition of metals of a Volvo S80 (kg) creased awareness and concern among consumers about human-induced climate Al 167 change, combined with rising fuel prices, has led to greater consumer interest Mg 7 Fe 1,040 in more fuel-efficient vehicles. Another aspect is the increased demands from Cu 27 decision-makers, with the EU regulations limiting emissions from new cars to no Zn 2.5 more than 130 g CO2 per kilometre from 2015, with phase-in requirements from Pb 13 Volvo Car Corporation – GRI Report 2011 27 EN2 Percentage of recycled input materials EN3:1(2) Energy consumption in Volvo Cars’ Recycled input materials are divided into metallic and non-metallic materials. A wholly owned plants (direct and indirect MWh) 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 Volvo S80 consists of 16 kg recycled non-metallic materials (such as post-industrial Total energy consumption 854,936 861,121 71,3079 816,581 916,669 plastics in wheel arch liners, the engine cover and sound absorbers). Of which indirect energy consumption, electricity and district heating account for 455,687 486,781 429,204 497,458 571,080 EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary energy source EN3:2 Direct energy consumption in Volvo 1) Cars’ wholly owned plants by source (%) Energy source 2011 2010 2009 2008 In our direct energy consumption, we use energy in the form of natural gas, diesel Coal — — — — oil and petrol for direct production purposes. This energy is used to power machines, Natural gas 98 94 95 97 Oil/diesel/petrol 1 3 3 3 computers, lighting, tools, ovens and other equipment. Our indirect energy consumpRenewables (biomass) 1 — — — tion is through purchased electricity and district heating for our facilities. Renewables (non-biomass) — 1 — — Volvo Cars has an overall target to continuously reduce our total energy conOther/Unspecified — 2 2 — 1)  he Volvo Cars facilities included in the data are Volvo Cars Torslanda Plant (Gothenburg, Sweden), Volvo Cars Ghent T sumption by working systematically on the energy issue. Centrally, we have an expert Plant (Ghent, Belgium), Kuala Lumpur (Malaysia), Volvo Cars Skövde – Engines (Skövde, Sweden), Volvo Cars Floby (Floby, Sweden) and Volvo Cars Olofström – Body Components (Olofström, Sweden). working solely on Volvo Cars’ energy and climate change related issues. In addition, at each local site one person has been given responsibility for energy issues, coordinating all activities relating to energy use. An inventory of energy use has been performed at most Volvo Cars buildings and operational processes, as an important step towards reducing energy consumpEN4 Indirect energy consumption by primary tion. To reach this level, remedial programmes have been performed at several energy source sites and information campaigns have been held to educate employees on the importance of energy saving and efficiency. Check lists are to be used at team level, There are various ways of describing the primary energy source of the electricity clarifying when and how to turn the various pieces of equipment on and off. purchased in a given country during a certain period. The European electricity grid Our aim is to be climate-neutral, and we are getting closer to this goal every is interconnected and all electric power generated is delivered to the same network. year. All the electricity bought and used by Volvo Cars in Europe originates from cerTherefore, it is impossible to say where an individual kilowatt-hour is generated, tified hydropower. Heating at large originates from waste heat and biofuel, via district but by demanding certified renewable energy from electricity providers, Volvo Cars heating. The remaining usage consists of natural gas/liquefied petroleum gas (LPG) encourages the move towards greater renewable energy production. All the electricthat is mainly used for the painting furnaces. The transition from LPG and natural ity bought and used by Volvo Cars in Europe is certified hydropowered electricity. gas to biogas is planned to take place as soon as possible but at present there are In Malaysia, we assume that 100% of our electricity is generated from coal. These no suppliers that can deliver the quantities we need. assumptions provide a sufficiently accurate reflection of how the electricity we use During 2011, the total energy consumption from direct and indirect energy use is generated. decreased. Energy purchased for own consumption can mainly be linked to more In 2011, the company’s consumption of purchased electricity was higher than intensive vehicle production and Volvo Cars’ increased number of produced and sold the previous year. Considering our increased production, the energy consumption vehicles. The energy consumption per vehicle fell to 1.30 MWh/vehicle in 2011, has not increased proportionally. This shows that the energy-saving and efficiency compared to 1.61 MWh/vehicle in 2010. processes taking place at our facilities are yielding results. EN3:1(1) Energy consumption in Volvo Cars EN4:1 Indirect energy consumption. District heating wholly owned plants (MWh)1) by primary energy source (MWh)1) Primary energy source 2011 2010 2009 2008 MWh Waste heat 62,392 77,695 40,844 47,597 Biofuels 12,233 12,163 11,597 10,399 1,000,000 Fossil fuels + electricity 15,169 25,935 11,980 11,291 Total 89,794 115,793 64,421 69,287 800,000 1)  he Volvo Cars facilities included in the data are Volvo Cars Torslanda Plant (Gothenburg, Sweden) Volvo Cars Ghent T Plant (Ghent, Belgium), Kuala Lumpur (Malaysia), Volvo Cars Skövde – Engines (Skövde, Sweden), Volvo Cars Floby 600,000 (Floby, Sweden) and Volvo Cars Olofström – Body Components (Olofström, Sweden). 400,000 EN4:2 Indirect energy consumption. 200,000 Electricity by primary energy source (MWh)1) 0 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Nuclear power 0 0 0 0  Total energy (direct and indirect) Hydro power 424,128 366,886 361,986 422,777  Direct energy2) Wind power 1,409 — — —  Indirect energy3) Condensing coal-fired plants 5,093 4,122 2,797 5,394 Total 443,270 370,988 364,783 428,171 1) The Volvo Cars facilities included in the data are Volvo Cars Torslanda Plant (Gothenburg, Sweden), Volvo Cars Ghent 1) T  he Volvo Cars facilities included in the data are Volvo Cars Torslanda Plant (Gothenburg, Plant (Ghent, Belgium), Kuala Lumpur (Malaysia), Volvo Cars Skövde – Engines (Skövde, Sweden), Volvo Cars Floby Sweden), Volvo Cars Ghent Plant (Ghent, Belgium), Kuala Lumpur (Malaysia), Volvo Cars (Floby, Sweden) and Volvo Cars Olofström – Body Components (Olofström, Sweden). Skövde – Engines (Skövde, Sweden), Volvo Cars Floby (Floby, Sweden) and Volvo Cars Olofström – Body Components (Olofström, Sweden). 2) Energy purchased for own consumption 3) Purchased electricity and heating Volvo Car Corporation – GRI Report 2011 28 EN8 Total water withdrawal by source EN16:1 ESTIMATED DIRECT AND INDIRECT EMISSIONS OF CO2 IN CAR PRODUCTION1) Volvo Cars has long worked in a targeted manner to reduce the company’s emisIndirect emissions Indirect emissions of sions to water and is endeavouring to be the leader in the automotive industry. Since Direct emissions of CO2 from CO2 from district Total emissions Year of CO2 (tonne) electricity (tonne)2 heating (tonne) of CO2 (tonne) 2010, the environmental protection department has been working on adapting the 2011 55,958 633 3,094 59,685 Global Water Footprint method for the automotive industry, to gain a comprehensive 2010 58,912 2,968 5,705 67,585 picture of Volvo Cars’ impact on water. The Global Water Footprint method is used 2009 53,169 1,870 3,941 58,980 2008 60,618 3,883 3,866 68,367 to calculate Volvo Cars’ water footprint. Water management is divided into two areas: 2007 62,568 59,780 4,387 126,735 The grey water footprint, meaning the quality of the water released from plants; and 1) The  Volvo Cars facilities included in the data are Volvo Cars Torslanda Plant (Gothenburg, Sweden), Volvo Cars Ghent the blue water footprint, meaning the quantity of water used in production. Plant (Ghent, Belgium), Kuala Lumpur (Malaysia), Volvo Cars Skövde – Engines (Skövde, Sweden), Volvo Cars Floby (Floby, Sweden) and Volvo Cars Olofström – Body Components (Olofström, Sweden). 2) The primary energy source for electricity in Europe is hydropower, which is climate neutral, while the primary energy source in Malaysia is assumed to be coal (720 kg CO2/MWh). EN8 Water consumption in Volvo Cars manufacturing plants1) EN16:2 Emissions of HFCs1) 2011 2010 Emissions of HFCs (kg) CO2 equivalent (tonne) Water consumption (m3) 662,000 549,000 Water consumption m3/vehicle2) 1.5 1.5 2011 385 462 2010 431 517 1) Manufacturing plants are Volvo Cars Torslanda, Volvo Cars Ghent and Malaysia 2009 496 595 2) KPI water consumption/vehicle is based on the number of produced cars in manufacturing plants. 2008 588 705 2007 676 811 EN11 Location and size of land owned, leased, 1) Sweden only. managed in, or adjacent to protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected EN19 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances areas by weight Volvo Cars has manufacturing facilities in three countries on two continents. Volvo In the EU, we do not use CFCs in any application, although HCFCs are used to cars are also produced at Changan Ford Mazda Automobile Company Ltd., Ford some extent in air conditioning systems. However, these are also to be phased out Motor Company’s passenger-car joint venture in Chongqing, China. and we intend to successively introduce completely chlorine-free alternatives as Conservation International, an environmental organisation based in Washington systems are refilled. Since 2002, no new systems have been filled with HCFCs in DC, has developed a list of global ‘biodiversity hotspots’. One of our plants is located Sweden. The actual quantities of HCFCs in stock, converted to CFC-11 equivalents, in such an area: the Swedish motor Assemblies SDN BHD in Kuala Lumpur, Malayare shown in the table below. sia in the Sundaland Hotspot. This hotspot is quite large, extending over 1.5 million sq km. The other plants are located in the proximity of Natura 2000 areas. As with all our plants, the Malaysian operation is located at traditional industrial EN19 Stocks of ozone-depleting substances in EU HCFCs (kg) CFC equivalent (kg) sites in or in close proximity to urban areas. All of our plants have implemented envi2011 486 24 ronmental management systems in accordance with ISO 14001. In this process, all 2010 630 31 of our operations have been inspected in terms of their impact on the environment. 2009 703 35 Based on this, we have concluded that there are no individual substances or mate2008 718 36 2007 733 37 rial used in our processes or products that present a direct threat to any individual species or type of biota. EN20 NOx, SOx and other significant air emissions by type and weight EN11 Biodiversity Operational plant sites Plant size (m2) Volvo Cars Ghent Plant, Ghent, Belgium 237,008 NOx, SOx Swedish Motor Assemblies SDN BHD, Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia 25,541 Our plants produce emissions of sulphur oxides (SOx) and nitrogen oxides (NOx). Volvo Cars Torslanda Plant, Gothenburg, Sweden 372,542 Emissions of sulphur oxides have been reduced significantly over a long period, Volvo Cars Skövde – Engines, Skövde, Sweden 110,003 Volvo Cars Floby, Floby, Sweden 21,999 mainly as a result of our changeover from oil to district heating and gas. The Volvo Cars Olofström – Body Components, Olofström, Sweden 245,939 improvement is also due, in part, to the use of cleaner fuel oils at those locations where oil is still used for heating purposes. Emissions of nitrogen oxides are a function not of fuel quality but mainly of combustion temperature. High combustion EN16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas temperatures generally yield low emissions of CO and VOC, although the opposite is true of nitrogen oxides. (This is the situation in the paint shop in order to reduce emissions by weight the level of CO and VOC. All other combustions are at boiler houses and they are low-NOx combustions.) The NOx emissions are calculated based on the quantity Volvo Cars has an overall target to continuously reduce our total energy consumpof fuel. Spot tests are also performed. SOx emissions are calculated on the basis tion and our aim is to become climate-neutral. This is done by systematic work on of the sulphur content in the fuel. See Table EN20 for Emissions of SOx and NOx the energy issue; please see EN3 and EN4. 2007–2011. We report direct and indirect emissions of CO2. Indirect emissions are estimated based on our assumptions for the primary energy sources for the countries in which Volatile organic compounds (VOC) we operate, as described under EN4. During 2011, our total emissions of greenOur plants produce emissions of volatile hydrocarbons (VOC). Hydrocarbon emishouse gases decreased compared with the previous year. We continue to focus sions are caused mainly by painting operations. Since it was commissioned in on our energy management, conducting energy inventories, saving and efficiency 1991, the Torslanda paint shop has proved to be one of the very best in the world processes as described in EN3–4. Greenhouse gases also include CH4, N2O, HFCs, in terms of minimising the quantity of hydrocarbons emitted per unit of painted PFCs and SF6. Of these, Volvo Cars only emits minor quantities of HFCs – the bigsurface. In 2007 the European Union imposed a limit of 60 g/m² of painted surface gest source of HFCs being the cooling equipment. on hydrocarbon emissions from existing automotive paint shops. Our paint shop in Volvo Car Corporation – GRI Report 2011 29 Torslanda emits approximately 13 g of hydrocarbons per m² of painted surface, and EN23 Total numbers and volume of our Ghent paint shop approximately 21 g per m² of painted surface. We will continue our efforts to further reduce emissions. See Table EN20 for emissions of SOx, significant spills NOx, and VOC in 2007-2011. Calculations of VOC emissions are based mainly on Discharges of water consist of internally pre-treated process water, and wastewater the amount of solvents in materials used and on measurements of the degree of discharged from catering and restroom facilities to the domestic water systems in purification of the equipment. our plants. These discharges of water are not judged to be significant. The municipal wastewater treatment plants impose restrictions on the water they will accept for EN20 Emissions of SOx, NOx, and VOC (tonne) treatment, what contaminants the water may contain and their concentrations. The Emissions of SOx Emissions of NOx, Emissions of VOC wastewater arising from Volvo Cars does not have any negative effects on the mu2010 <1 80 820 nicipal wastewater treatment plants. All effluents from our Belgian plant are treated 2010 <1 85 738 2009 <1 71 527 within the plant itself, complying with the standards imposed on discharges by the 2008 <1 90 712 Belgian authorities. Process wastewater from our plant in Malaysia is treated there 2007 1 101 740 in the same way as in the Ghent plant. All plants must report serious environmental incidents to Volvo Cars’ Environmental Protection Department in Gothenburg. During 2011 no serious environEN22 Total weight of waste by type and mental incident was reported. To prevent environmental spillage and incidents, Volvo disposal method Cars is working continuously on risk assessments, environmental accident drills and reporting of ‘near misses’. The company has developed a risk analysis process in Volvo Cars work continuously and proactively to avoid waste and optimise waste order to prevent the occurrence of environmental risks. According to this process handling in early project phases, applying the following priorities: 1. Avoidance, 2. regular risk analyses are performed at all areas where environmentally hazardous Material recycling, 3. Energy recovery, 4. Landfill or destruction. activities are carried out (according to the definition in the Swedish Environmental Compared to 2010, total waste increased, mainly due to higher production Code). levels, an increase in re-building projects and because of the fact that the stamping Volvo Cars has a programme for internal audits concerning the environment, the plant in Gothenburg is now included in the statistics. We weigh and classify all waste operational management system and legal compliance as well as dangerous goods, in accordance with the EU’s EWC waste codes. Over 99% of Volvo Cars’ production to monitor our operations and thus find scope for improvement. waste originates in our plants in Sweden and Belgium. See tables EN22:1, EN22:2, EN22:3. Hazardous waste from Volvo Cars’ production plants includes: wastewater EN26 Initiatives to mitigate environmental sludge, oils, cutting fluids, paint sludge, adhesive residues and solvents. In 2011, impacts of products and services and extent there was renewed focus on recovering the energy from more of the company’s hazardous waste. of impact mitigation Climate change is one of the greatest threats facing our planet. It is clear that greenhouse gas emissions must be radically reduced. According to the reports of EN22:1 Waste materials by type1) (tonne) the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, 13.5% of global greenhouse gas Total waste Hazardous waste emissions are caused by transportation. Climate change and mitigating emissions 2011 230,167 11,439 represent a major challenge for the automotive industry. Volvo Cars follows three 2010 169,746 9,087 2009 123,186 5,594 main tracks for reducing the environmental impact of its products: Efficiency en2008 171,872 9,320 hancement, Renewable fuels, and Electrification. These three tracks will coexist and 2007 195,045 11,395 vary in significance over the coming decades, with the aim of gradually reducing fuel 1) Sweden and Belgium consumption and emissions to the levels required by the authorities, the customers EN22:2 Waste materials by type1) (%) and the environment. Waste materials by type 2011 2010 2009 Metals 88,7 94.5 94.7 Efficiency enhancement Hazardous waste 5 3 3.1 The average carbon dioxide emission in all new Volvo Cars’ vehicles sold in 2011 Other 2,7 0.2 0.1 declined by 33% compared to 1995 (EU15). The fleet average of g CO2/km Stone and Cement 0,7 0.002 0.002 Paper and cardboard 0,7 0.4 0.3 decreased from 157 in the previous year to 151 in 2011 (3.8%). Sludge 0,5 0.5 0.4 Wood 0,6 0.5 0.7 Plastics Construction waste 0,3 0,5 0.3 0.2 0.2 0.1 EN26 Fuel efficiency (EU15) 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 Domestic refuse 0,3 0.4 0.4 Reduction achieved in averElectronics2 0.02 0.02 age carbon dioxide emissions 1) Sweden and Belgium in all new Volvo Cars vehicles 2) Electronics included in Hazardous waste. sold during a year1) (%) 33 30 23 19 16 Fleet average (g CO2/km) 151 157 173 185 190 EN22:3 Methods of processing waste1) 1) Monitored  under the ACEA voluntary agreement to achieve a 25% reduction, industry wide, Materials recovery, % Energy recovery, % Landfill, % from 1995 level by 2008. Incl. Metals 2011 93 5.5 1.2 Incl. Metals 2010 94 5.5 0.5 Efficient diesels Incl. Metals 2009 93 6.5 0.5 Incl. Metals 2008 94 5.5 0.5 Volvo Cars thinks that the most effective way to cut the product range’s total carbon Excl. Metals 20112) 38 49 10 dioxide emissions in the short term is to reduce the fuel consumption of its diesel Excl. Metals 2010 25 68 7 and petrol engines. This is because cutting the emissions of many cars sold in large Excl. Metals 2009 24 68 8 Excl. Metals 2008 25 67 8 volumes will have a bigger total effect and bring favourable results more quickly than 1) 2) Production plants in Sweden and Belgium. The figures are provided by Volvo Cars’ waste disposal contractor. making huge cuts in a small number of cars. Volvo Cars has introduced a range of Excluding 0,3 respectively 3 percent of waste fluids treated in evaporator and other waste fractions. high-efficiency diesel models with very low CO2 emissions. In addition, really efficient diesel engines featuring start/stop technology will be introduced across the entire product range in the coming years. Volvo Car Corporation – GRI Report 2011 30 DRIVe Towards Zero to 50 kilometres, a high-efficiency hybrid with carbon dioxide emissions averaging Another initiative to reduce the environmental impact of our cars is ‘DRIVe Towards just 49 g/km, or a muscular fun-to-drive car. Zero’ – Volvo Cars’ vision for developing cars entirely free from harmful exhaust emissions and environment-impacting carbon dioxide. Volvo’s DRIVe cars consist Pure electric cars – C30 Electric of a series of extremely fuel-efficient diesel models. The C30, S40 and V50 are In 2011 Volvo Cars started production of the Volvo C30 Electric. The fleet of 250 currently the most efficient DRIVe models with fuel consumption (EU Combined) cars is leased to customers in selected European countries and they are also curdown to 3.8 l/100 km and CO2 emissions at 99 g/km. The Volvo S60 and V60 in rently operating in demonstration programmes in Sweden, Belgium and China. The DRIVe versions have CO2 emissions of just 114 g/km and 119 g/km respectively Volvo C30 Electric has a 20 kWh battery that is recharged from a regular household – corresponding to fuel consumption of 4.3 and 4.5 l/100 km respectively. The power socket. A full recharge takes about 7 hours and the operating range is up to low consumption and emission levels are the result of a number of technological 150 kilometres per full charge. improvements: • Friction between gearbox components has been reduced. Electric mobility partnership • The engine and gearbox software has been modified. In 2011 Volvo Cars and Siemens launched a strategic cooperation to jointly advance • The start/stop system cuts off the diesel engine when the car is still rolling (below the technical development of electric cars. The focus of this initiative is on the joint 5 km/h). development of electrical drive technology, power electronics and charging technol• All electrical systems have been optimised to create lower energy consumption. ogy as well as the integration of those systems into Volvo C30 Electric vehicles. Volvo Cars’ DRIVe Towards Zero also includes improvements to the petrol engines. By optimising the four-cylinder, 1.6-litre T3 engine (150 hp), which is available in the Other efforts taken Volvo S60 and V60, the engine experts have managed to bring fuel consumption Several other initiatives were taken to mitigate the environmental impacts of proddown to 5.8 l/100 km in the S60. This corresponds to CO2 emissions at 135 g/km. ucts. Some examples are highlighted below. VEA – Volvo Environmental Architecture, the new four-cylinder strategy Lightweight design Volvo Cars’ new engine range, known as VEA – Volvo Environmental Architecture – Volvo Cars aims to take the lead in lightweight automotive design with upcoming consists solely of four-cylinder engines which in certain configurations will benefit SPA models (Scalable Product Architecture) being 100–150 kg lighter than current from enhanced performance through electrification or other spearhead technology. models of the same size, which will result in a reduced requirement for material Volvo Cars will develop four-cylinder engines with higher performance than and lower fuel/energy consumption. One of the components is the flywheel. The today’s six-cylinder units, along with lower fuel consumption than the current genflywheel that Volvo Cars will use in its test car is made of carbon fibre. It weighs eration of four-cylinder engines. about 6 kg and has a diameter of 20 cm. The carbon fibre wheel spins in a vacuum Volvo Cars is also introducing a new 8-speed automatic gearbox, which gives to minimise frictional losses. the driver a refined drive and excellent fuel economy. SARTRE Renewable fuels – Volvo Cars’ Flexifuels The SARTRE project (Safe Road Trains for the Environment) is being driven by Sustainable mobility demands the development of cars that can run on fuels from seven European partners and is the only one of its kind to focus on the developrenewable sources. Europe’s bioethanol refuelling infrastructure is expanding, partly ment of technology that can be implemented on conventional highways in which as a result of constructive cooperation between the car industry and several EU platooned traffic operates in a mixed environment with other road users. countries. Volvo Cars’ track to increase the use of renewable fuels includes car SARTRE aims to encourage a step change in personal transport usage through models that are tailored to run on multiple fuels. Volvo Cars offers models that are the development of safe environmental road trains (platoons). Systems are being powered by petrol, diesel, ethanol and natural gas/biogas – Volvo Cars’ Flexifuel developed in prototype form that will facilitate the safe adoption of road trains on models (C30, S40, S60, S80, V50, V70, and V60), which is one of the car world’s unmodified public highways with full interaction with non-platoon vehicles. If sucbroadest ranges of Flexifuel models. What is more, on several European markets cessful, the benefits from SARTRE are expected to be significant. there are aftermarket-converted gas models that can run on up to five fuels – Environmental impact is reduced since the cars follow close behind each other natural gas, biogas, hythane (biomethane with low-blend hydrogen), E85 and petrol. and benefit from the lower air drag. The energy saving is expected to be as much as Biogas in particular offers excellent environmental properties. Within the next few 20% depending on vehicle spacing and geometry. The system will also enable road years, second-generation biofuels such as synthetic diesel will also be able to be capacity to be utilised more efficiently. The SARTRE project – with Volvo Cars as the used in Volvo’s cars. Filling up with E85 instead of petrol can reduce a car’s fossil only participating car manufacturer – began formally in September 2009 and will carbon dioxide emissions by up to 80%. run for a total of three years. It has successfully completed the first test demonstrations of a multiple vehicle platoon. Electrification On the electrification track, Volvo Cars has taken various initiatives. For example, the Reduction of material use company invests heavily in hybrid cars and has started producing pure electric cars. In 2011 Volvo Cars continued the development of the Advanced Engineering Woodfiber Door Module, which aims to reduce fossil-based material in favour of Hybrid cars renewable material. Volvo Cars aims to be the market leader in plug-in hybrid technology by continuing Further, Volvo Cars together with IVL (Swedish Environmental Research Institute) to focus heavily on advanced green technology. Between 2006 and 2014 Volvo and KTH (Royal Institute of Technology) started evaluating the plastic quality of max. Cars is investing a massive SEK 15 billion in research and development with the aim 10-year-old bumpers from scrapped cars. The objective is to assess the possibility of reducing the fuel consumption and environmental emissions of its cars. of reusing such plastic parts in new bumpers or any other products, thereby contribIn 2012, customers will be able to buy Volvo plug-in electrical hybrids (such as uting to the reduction of material use. the Volvo V60 Plug-in Hybrid); that is to say cars that can be recharged via a regular household electric socket. These cars have both a conventional combustion engine Harmful emissions from products, other than CO2 and an electric motor powered by a battery pack. They are propelled primarily by The percentage of sold Volvo cars that complied with Euro 5/ULEV in 2011 was energy from the battery, with the combustion engine taking over when the distance 94%. Euro 5 is the EU classification regulating harmful emissions from the product, travelled exceeds the capacity of the battery. For shorter distances in and around other than CO2 (for example NOx, SOx and particulate matter). ULEV stands for cities, it is likely that dedicated battery-powered cars may be in demand. Volvo is ‘Ultra-Low Emission Vehicle’, and is an environmental classification in force in Calitherefore moving forward in this area too. fornia that has set even higher demands for lower emissions than Euro 5 does. The Volvo V60 Plug-in Hybrid is the world’s first diesel-powered plug-in hybrid, giving owners an electric range of 30 miles (50 km) and over 120 miles per US gallon (1.9 l/100 km) in hybrid mode. It integrates the best properties from three EN26:2 Harmful emissions from products, other than CO2 2011 2010 different car types into an attractive sports wagon – by simply pressing a button the Share of Volvo cars sold complying with driver can choose which car he/she wants to drive: an electric car with a range of up Euro5/ULEV standards (%) 94 54 Volvo Car Corporation – GRI Report 2011 31 EN27 Percentage of products sold and their packLA2 Employee turnover aging materials that are reclaimed by category The net employee turnover at Volvo Cars in 2010 is presented in table LA2. For 2011 and 2010, data represent Sweden only. In compliance with EC Directive 2005/64, metals, oils, fluids, rubber and certain plastics corresponding to at least 95% of the weight of a Volvo can be recovered and 85% can be recycled. Volvo calculates the recyclability rate and the recoverabilLA2 Employee turnover1) ity rate of its cars according to the ISO 22628:2002 method. 20112 20102 2009 2008 2007 Metallic materials are reused, but the exact amount is not measured due to the Blue collar male 1.7 3.7 13.2 11.0 7.6 complexity of the process. Blue collar female 1.9 6.2 22.1 14.7 9.5 Total blue collar 1.8 4.2 14.8 11.7 8.0 White collar male 2.9 2.1 5.9 5.9 11.3 White collar female 2.9 2.2 8.9 7.3 8.5 EN28 Monetary value of significant fines and total Total white collar 2.9 2.1 9.1 6.2 10.7 number of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliTotal Volvo Cars 2.3 3.3 12.8 9.2 9.1 ance with environmental laws and regulations 1) Number of employees leaving the company divided by the number of employees employed at the end of the reporting period. 2) Since 2010, data represents only Sweden. Previous years represent Sweden and Belgium. In the past 18 years we have not been notified or found culpable of any breach of environmental standards or operating licences in any of our plants. All of our environmental activities are conducted in compliance with applicable legislation and permits. LA7 Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, absenteeism, and number of work-related fatalities Social performance Labour Practice and Decent Work Sick leave among Volvo Cars’ employees in Sweden and Belgium has been slowly but surely decreasing over the past few years as a result of our systematic Health and Safety efforts. From the second half of 2005, extra focus was placed on sick LA1 Total workforce leave and rehabilitation from a general perspective and in connection with the implementation of improved sick leave reporting and follow-up at Volvo Cars Sweden. We succeeded in our ambition and achieved all-time low sickness absenteeism of LA1:1 Breakdown of workforce 4.4% in 2011. 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 Sweden 14,550 12,917 13,928 16,573 17,616 Torslanda plant Göteborg – Other 3,258 7,805 2,873 6,532 2,974 7,686 4,178 8,052 — — LA7:1 Sick leave per hours worked (%) Skövde incl Floby 2,008 1,951 1,863 2,593 — 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 Olofström 1,479 1,561 1,405 1,747 — Sweden 3.6 3.7 3.8 4.3 4.9 Belgium (Ghent) 3,981 4,484 3,685 3,791 4,110 Volvo Cars total 4.4 4.5 4.7 5.0 5.5 Thailand 0 0 0 1 256 Malaysia 341 282 187 228 274 China 732 0 11 0 0 LA7:2 Number of incidents Market companies 1,908 1,811 1,841 2,139 2,128 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 Total* 21,512 19,494 19,650 22,732 24,384 Injuries1) 0.7 0.6 0.5 0.9 1.5 * Volvo cars are also produced in Chongqing (China) and Uddevalla (Sweden) and assembled in Bangkok (Thailand). At Serious injuries2) 15 6 6 8 4 these locations, only a few people are directly employed by Volvo Cars. 1)Defined as number of injuries resulting in at least one day of sick leave per 200,000 hours worked (equivalent to 100 man years) 2) Defined as total number of injuries leading to fractures, unconsciousness etc. LA1:2 Breakdown of employment type (Sweden and Belgium only) White collar1) Blue collar2) Full-time3) Part-time4) 2011 2010 2011 2010 2011 2010 2011 2010 Sweden 6,662 6,278 8,486 7,868 14,892 14,022 166 124 Torslanda plant 208 190 3,133 2,818 3,303 2,984 38 24 Göteborg – Other 5,725 5,418 1,721 1,687 7,400 7,056 46 49 Skövde incl Floby 363 328 1,894 1,760 2,201 2,066 56 22 Olofström 366 342 1,738 1,603 2,078 1,916 26 29 Belgium (Ghent) 234 602 4,339 4,813 4,431 5,268 142 147 Total 13,558 13,158 12,825 20,549 19,413 33,312 308 395 Identification of contract type and full-time/part-time status of employees are based on the definitions applied in the national laws of the country where they are based. 1) White  Collar employees are those whose employment is regulated by the collective agreements Teknikavtalet Unionen/ Sveriges Ingenjörer/Ledarna, which is agreed between Teknikarbetsgivarna and Unionen/Sveriges Ingenjörer/Ledarna. 2) Blue  collar employees are those whose employment is regulated by the collective agreement Teknikavtalet IF Metall, which is agreed between Teknikarbetsgivarna and IF Metall. 3) A ‘full-time employee’ is defined according to national legislation and practices regarding working hours (e.g. in Sweden, national legislation defines ‘full-time’ as a minimum of nine months per year and a minimum of 30 hours per week). 4)A ‘part-time employee’ is an employee whose weekly, monthly or annual working hours are less than ‘full time’ as defined above. Volvo Car Corporation – GRI Report 2011 32 LA8 Education, training, counselling, prevention and Two departments within Volvo Cars are responsible for training and competence development: the Competence Development & Learning Efficiency department and risk-control programmes in place to assist workforce the Leadership & Corporate Development department. members, their families, or community members regarding serious diseases LA13 Composition of governance bodies and Volvo Cars conducts company-wide injury prevention programmes. This means that breakdown of employees per category we, as an employer, are responsible for organising and conducting our operations in a manner designed to prevent accidents and work-related illnesses. All employVolvo Cars’ executive management team consists of 13 people: 12 men and one ees are responsible for reporting injuries and serious incidents to their immediate woman. The board of directors consists of 12 people: nine men and three women superior. We compile an annual report of all reported injuries and incidents, which (two male union member deputies not included). provides a vital basis for our preventive programmes. The company’s action plan for Diversity is important for Volvo Cars. The mix of different nationalities in the work environment activities places particular emphasis on reporting incidents which management team has increased and there is a strong focus on becoming a global might have resulted in personal injury. corporation with diversity at its core. There is a trend towards a better gender Our injury prevention programmes are conducted by working environment combalance in leading positions, with the proportion of women in leadership positions mittees which, together, cover all units and operations in Sweden, as well as our reaching 21% by the end of 2011. The number of people of foreign origin has production units in Belgium and Malaysia. The task of these committees is to survey increased from 17% to 21% during one year. and evaluate the risks present in the working environment, and to propose action to The 2010–2012 diversity plan includes a series of activities to accelerate minimise them. progress towards increased diversity and to utilise the diversity within the company. Over the years, we have worked systematically to reduce occupational risks, with For example, an extensive training programme for managers started in 2010 the focus on high-risk areas and personal behaviour. In the past ten years, there has that will continue during 2011 and early 2012. Moreover, a number of mentoring been a downward trend in the risk of sustaining a work-related injury or illness. A programmes have been run, as well as a shadowing programme for females, in comprehensive training programme for managers and safety officers is one of the cooperation with two external organisations. Women are also in focus in the Volvo means adopted to achieve this aim. Cars succession planning process, and career development discussions are held We have no specific policy or action plan for dealing with HIV infection or AIDS. to enable each unit to identify resources and actions needed to reach their specific Infected employees are subject to the company’s ordinary rules governing illness, targets. sick leave, sickness benefit and rehabilitation but when/if cases occur they are The diversity index has increased one step from 2010 to 2011 on an aggrehandled with the utmost discretion. Although this is subject to review, we do not, at gated level. The index is a part of the Global People Survey and measures every present, see a need for a separate policy on HIV and AIDS. team on composition by gender, age and foreign origin as well as manager inclusion and team inclusion. The diversity index is followed up in the Executive Management Team and also by the Board of Directors. The new desired work culture and the new LA10 Average hours of training per year corporate strategy will make us an even more diverse and inclusive corporation. See tables LA13:1–LA13:3 for more information on diversity at Volvo Cars related to age. per employee by employee category Every employee must have a personal development plan, which is developed in consultation with his or her immediate superior. The purpose of this is to ensure that LA13 PERCENTAGE OF WOMEN IN LEADING POSITIONS1) the employee’s development is in accordance with the organisation’s development 21.3 and needs. Development plans may lead to training or other forms of competence development. The overall learning vision for Volvo Cars is to make employees more active in driving their own development, while the company moves from being a 19.6 learning provider to being a learning enabler. Some of the tools for achieving this 18.7 18.5 18.5 are through offering blended learning solutions and resources that enable the employee’s self-directed learning. In 2011, Volvo Cars offered 585 different courses at 2,880 sessions, with a total of 83,214 participants. In total Volvo Cars conducted 499,284 hours of train2007 2008 2009 2010 20112 ing in 2011. Some of the areas and issues covered were: product-related issues 1)  eading position covers managers with direct reporting responsibilities, programme managers, project leaders and L specialist in leading positions. (engineering); IT, systems and tools; leadership and organisational development; 2) Data for 2011 represents China, Belgium and Sweden, while previous years’ data represents global numbers. process-related manufacturing; and safety, health and environment. During the year many new employees have had training in different tools and processes. The company also trained different target groups on safety issues for electrical vehicles, LA13:1 Age distribution, Volvo Cars in Sweden cultural issues and technical aspects of new development. The statistics on training – white and blue collar courses are related to traditional classroom training only, and do not include other 2011 15–19 20–24 25–29 30–34 35–39 40–44 45–49 50–54 55–59 60–64 65–69 Gothenburg 35 229 526 1,033 1,732 2,196 2,113 1,550 1,094 403 15 efforts conducted frequently, including competence development activities such as Olofström 18 100 59 91 187 390 462 327 303 166 4 mentoring, project work, job rotation and literature studies. The total time invested in Skövde 36 285 247 212 318 351 370 190 163 85 1 these activities is difficult to estimate. In 2011 the use of Volvo Cars’ internally developed e-learning increased, with several new e-learning courses. During the year 2,236 e-learning courses were completed. The aim of e-learning is to increase the accessibility of education for LA13:2 Age distribution, Volvo Cars in Gothenburg employees and facilitate the rapid implementation of new working methods and – white collar 2011 15–19 20–24 25–29 30–34 35–39 40–44 45–49 50–54 55–59 60–64 65–69 systems. Through public funding, the company also had the opportunity to allocate Gothenburg more resources to training and competence development of staff during the year. Male 0 10 156 354 741 893 827 749 540 253 14 Gothenburg The company hopes to continue to work with public funding in the future, in order to Female 0 10 71 194 319 344 312 155 93 35 1 be able to devote more resources to competence development and improve collaboration and cooperation with other companies and suppliers in the same market. Volvo Cars encourages employees who undergo further education outside of work by various incentive measures. For example, the company offers different financial benefits for employees studying in their free time. Volvo Car Corporation – GRI Report 2011 33 LA13:3 Age distribution, Volvo Cars in Gothenburg Human Rights – blue collar 2011 15–19 20–24 25–29 30–34 35–39 40–44 45–49 50–54 55–59 60–64 65–69 HR2 Percentage of significant suppliers and conGothenburg Male 22 176 237 349 503 746 753 554 376 95 0 tractors that have undergone screening on human Gothenburg Female 13 33 62 136 169 213 221 92 85 20 0 rights and actions taken About 40% (by value) of the materials needed for each car are manufactured in our LA14 Ratio of basic salary of men to women by own facilities. The remaining 60% are purchased from external sources. Volvo Cars has approximately 400 business partners producing components for our cars, and a employee category further 3,300 delivering other products and services. During 2010 and 2011, Volvo Cars developed a new Code of Conduct sets To ensure fair treatment of all employees, Volvo Cars implements a clear salary forth the guiding principles of to all employees of Volvo Cars, all business partners policy and a structured salary process. In connection with the annual salary review, Volvo Cars does business with, all dealers that sell the products of Volvo Cars, as Volvo Cars and the employee organisations represented at its facilities conduct an well as all other representatives that conduct business on behalf of the company. analysis of salaries to identify and adjust any discrepancies in the salary structure. The Code of Conduct has been communicated during 2011 to suppliers –of both Discriminatory salary inequalities between men and women are included among the direct material and indirect material – via Volvo Supplier Portal, the Volvo Cars Purfollow-up parameters. chasing Terms & Conditions and Volvo Cars’ Social Responsibility Web guide. During The salary comparisons in tables LA14 show that there is a weak tendency the last year Volvo Cars has also established a new supplier portal for all suppliers, towards lower salaries for women throughout all of the categories for white-collar with the aim of streamlining communication between the company and its suppliers. workers. The discrepancy is highest in the most senior position category. Volvo Cars The portal also contains information about Volvo Cars’ demands and expectations work continuously to eliminate salary discrimination by gender. For example, we have on suppliers in a range of areas. The demands and expectations within the area of a gender-neutral salary policy and in the annual salary review, there is a requirehuman rights, for example, cover topics such as: ment to allot at least the same proportion of salary increase to women as to men. • Diversity and equal opportunity The differences that do exist can be explained by the fact that women have a lower • Health and Safety average age within each salary group, and that women in general progress faster • Child labour between different salary groups and therefore have participated in fewer revisions • Forced labour within each group. Within the group of blue-collar workers, women and men have • Freedom of association and collective bargaining equal salary levels. • Compensation We are concerned by the fact that women do not attain senior positions to the • Working hours same extent as men, and this is a challenge for the future. However, even though the ratio is low, there is a trend towards a better gender balance in leading positions. In 2011 a total of 953 supplier visitors were registered on the supplier portal. The proportion of women in leadership positions reached 21% by the end of 2011. From 2003 to 2009 a number of Volvo Cars’ suppliers and business partners See also LA13 for further information on how we work to increase diversity within underwent screening on human rights under a programme driven by Ford Motor the company. Company. None of Volvo Cars’ suppliers or contractors were excluded or subjected to performance conditions or other sanctions as a result of human rights screening. During 2010 and 2011, Volvo Cars Purchasing Department has been developing LA14:1 Basic salary ratio between women and men by a company-specific strategy for the company’s continued activities with its supply employee category (white collar workers in Sweden)1) chain relating to human rights. One base initiative that has been developed during 2011 SG D SG E SG F SG G SG H SG I SG J SG K 2011 is communicating the company’s demands and expectations in terms of Ratio salary2) 0.97 0.98 0.99 0.96 0.98 0.98 0.96 0.91 human rights through the new supplier portal and through training of suppliers in Ratio age3) 0.94 1.00 0.93 0.91 0.91 0.96 0.92 0.88 selected countries. The training was conducted in collaboration with other automo% of pop4) 54% 34% 25% 21% 21% 25% 21% 15% 1) SG  D–SG K indicate salary grade according to increasing level of qualification. SG D–SG K mainly indicate managerial tive OEMs and AIAG (Automotive Industry Action Group). During 2011 training was positions according to increasing level of qualification. 2) Salary carried out in India and Turkey, and training in Mexico and China is planned for the ratio indicates women’s salary in relation to men’s in each SG group. 3) Age ratio indicates women’s age in relation to men’s in each SG group. 4) % of pop. indicates the proportion of women in relation to the total population in each SG group. first quarter of 2012. Volvo Cars has also conducted manufacturing site assessments of new and current suppliers to review the suppliers’ manufacturing processes, including health LA14:2 Basic salary ratio between women and men by and safety and risk management. These assessments have been carried out by the employee category (blue collar workers in Sweden)1) Supplier Technical Assistance department within Purchasing. The company is also 2011 41–42 43–44 45–46 47–48 49–50 investigating the possibilities of integrating working conditions into the assessment. Salary ratio2) 0.99 1.00 0.99 0.96 1.01 During 2011 Volvo Cars has also focused on developing a country risk segAge ratio3) 1.06 0.97 0.97 0.84 0.99 mentation model, in order to guide coming activities, such as selecting countries for % of pop4) 25,4% 26,2% 12,4% 3,4% 9,5% 1) ‘44–42’–‘49–50’ supplier training. The company also developed a pilot audit project with the help of indicate salary grade according to increasing level of qualification. 2) Salary ratio indicates women’s salary in relation to men’s in each SG group. its new country risk segmentation model. The project will be launched in the first 3) Age ratio indicates women’s age in relation to men’s in each SG group. 4) % of pop. indicates the proportion of women in relation to the total population in each SG group. half of 2012, and suppliers will be followed up on a range of areas, including human rights. The outcome of the pilot project will inform the future development of Volvo Cars Purchasing Department’s strategic work with audits. Category Definition Another project which Volvo Cars has focused on during 2011 is developSG D Administrative Service ing a strategic process for self-assessments of, for example, human rights for the SG E Administrative Assistant, Engineer entry position SG F Engineer experienced company’s suppliers. SG G Engineer senior, Supervisor production For more information on Volvo Cars’ work with suppliers, contractors and human SG H Group Manager, Qualified professional rights, please see Management Approach: Human Rights, Supply Chain section, SG I Group Manager, Appointed Specialist, Project Manager SG J Section Manager above. SG K Department Manager 41-42 Assembly line worker 43-44 Administrative service, Logistics 45-46 Skilled Worker 47-48 Highly Skilled Worker 49-50 Highly Skilled Worker Volvo Car Corporation – GRI Report 2011 34 HR3 Total hours of employee training on The Senior Vice President General Counsel at Volvo Cars is responsible for leading the company’s anti-corruption work. policies and procedures concerning aspects of human rights SO4 Actions taken in response to incidents of In 2011 and 2012, Volvo Cars conducted a total of 600 hours of training in Corporate Social Responsibility, sustainability and the Global Compact for the entire Volvo corruption Cars Purchasing department. The purpose of this training is to raise awareness of social responsibility and human rights in general and more specifically in relation to No incidents of corruption have been reported for 2011. Volvo Cars’ supply chain, as well as to increase employees’ risk awareness within the area. A total of 10 training sessions for the Purchasing Department have taken place in the following locations : Gothenburg (7), Prague (audio/WebEx) (1), Ghent SO5 Public policy positions and participation in (audio/WebEx) (1) and Shanghai (January 2012) (1). In 2011, 400 employees in the Purchasing Department were trained, representing approximately 80% of the public policy development and lobbying department’s staff. Material from the training has also been distributed to all staff in Volvo Cars is affected by political decisions that are made in all of the countries the department. Volvo Cars will continue to inform and train employees within the where it operates. Therefore, we work continuously to establish access to politicians, Purchasing Department on our work procedures regarding human rights and supply authorities and institutions through dialogue in order to obtain information regarding chain in accordance with set strategies. important legislation and regulation that impact Volvo Cars’ strategic decisions and plans. Through this dialogue, Volvo Cars ‘ goal is to share knowledge and experiences that we believe will drive societal developments in a favourable way. HR4 Total number of discrimination incidents and Volvo Cars does not have a formal policy on public policy development or lobactions taken bying, but its Code of Conduct, states that the name of the company shall not be used in political campaigns or for the benefit of a specific political interest. In our In 2011 HR Labour Affairs handled three cases of alleged discrimination that had dialogues with various stakeholders, Volvo Cars does not differentiate between been reported to them in Sweden. HR Labour Affairs has investigated all cases and authorities and other type of organisations, but acts in the same way to establish found that no discrimination has occurred. None of the cases is any longer subject access to politicians, authorities and institutions. to action. Data reported for this indicator are for Sweden only. Our work to impact political decisions and processes can be summarized in several ways: through our memberships in trade associations, through the proactive dialogue with authorities that we initiate ourselves, through our contacts with NGOs and other institutions as well as the issues that the company raises in the public Society debates. Volvo Cars has held public events in 2011 that focused on economic incentives from the government to encourage a greater number of electrical cars SO3 Percentage of employees trained in organisaon the market, creation of a long-term regulation on greenhouse gas emissions and insurance premiums discounts for cars with advanced safety technologies. tion’s anti-corruption policies and procedures The Executive Director of Government Affairs is responsible for public policy development & governmental relations. The Senior Vice President General Counsel Volvo Cars’ policy is not to engage in any act that could possibly be construed as is responsible for policies and procedures related to bribery and corruption. giving or taking a bribe or in any kind of corruption. We support the UN Global Compact and the 10th, anti-corruption, principle. In 2011, we implemented our first Code of Conduct as a standalone company, including, but not limited to, guidelines regarding bribery and corruption. In essence, the circumstances under which SO7 Total number of legal actions for employees can accept gifts from suppliers, dealers or other business partners are anti-competitive behaviour, anti-trust, and regulated by the Code of Conduct. The Code of Conduct was adopted by the Board of Directors in February 2011. monopoly practices and their outcomes In 2011 we also began development of our Code of Conduct Handbook, with detailed guidelines for employees on how to behave when confronted with Volvo Cars is committed to complying with competition and anti-trust laws, and dilemmas such as gifts or favours, entertainment and social events, relations with fair competition is vital to the company’s success. The company must compete suppliers, dealers and other customers as well as relations with governments and vigorously, aggressively and fairly and without any anticompetitive understandings other policy makers. The Code of Conduct handbook was launched to employees in or agreements with its competitors. Volvo Cars is also committed to complying February 2012. with competition laws that apply to dealers and other independent businesses that Volvo Cars’ Code of Conduct set out the guiding principles for all employees of deal with company products. Such competition laws protect the distributors’ right Volvo Cars, all business partners that the company does business with, all dealers to conduct their business independently. The Corporate directive ‘Compliance with that sell the products of Volvo Cars, as well as all other representatives that conduct Competition Laws’ is the company’s guiding policy for anti-competitive behaviour, business on behalf of the company. Volvo Cars expects all business partners to enanti-trust and monopoly practices. The corporate directive summarises the principles sure that the Code of Conduct is communicated to their employees and subcontracthat should guide employee conduct in relationships with competitors, customers tors. Volvo Cars also expects all of its business contacts and commercial partners and suppliers. to be governed by the same principles stipulated in the Code of Conduct or similar No legal actions for anti-competitive behaviour, anti-trust or monopoly practices ones. were initiated against Volvo Cars in 2011. To reach our goals it is not only important what we do, but also how we do it. Volvo Cars’ reputation and in the end our growth and profitability is affected by the way employees act within the company or in relation to external parties. It is imporSO8 Monetary value of significant fines and total tant that we always act with a high degree of ethics and integrity. A web-based compliance training programme was introduced in May 2011. The course, ‘Combating number of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliBribery in Business’, was the first compliance course since the ownership transition ance with laws and regulations from Ford and it was created specifically for Volvo Cars. The course dealt with the rules and guidelines concerning bribes, gifts and representation and was mandatory Volvo Cars has not identified any non-compliance with laws or regulations during for all white-collar employees. By the end of March 2012, more than 8,200 Volvo 2011. Car employees had completed the anti-bribery training. Volvo Car Corporation – GRI Report 2011 35 Product Responsibility Normal driving The driver is well informed and alert. Good lighting and visibility are important to help him or her to detect danger and avoid an accident. Comfortable seating and PR1 Life cycle stages in which health and safety ergonomic controls enable the driver to concentrate on driving. Examples of Volvo impacts of products and services are assessed for Technologies: Driver Alert Control, IDIS, BLIS, Hill Descent Control, Alcoguard and Active Bi-Xenon. improvement Conflict Volvo Cars’ models were awarded the highest ranking in 81 out of 91 independent Technology helps the driver to handle the difficult situation. If the unexpected car safety tests. The test results are presented in the PR1 tables. In addition, the happens, the car can help to warn the driver, be easy to manoeuvre and must have Volvo V60 won the ‘Best Large Family Car 2011’ in Euro NCAPs ‘Best in Class Cars effective brakes. Examples of Volvo Technologies: DSTC, RSC, Trailer Stability Assist, 2011’. Collision warning with auto brake/Collision warning, Emergency Brake Lights and Some highlights during the year regarding product safety include touring the Lane Departure Warning. world’s motor shows with a Volvo C30 Electric that has, like all other Volvo cars, undergone Volvo Cars’ stringent crash test procedure. The company is taking yet Avoidance another step in active safety by developing a system that alerts and automatically The car acts automatically to avoid a collision if the driver fails to react. Examples of brakes for animals on the road. The new system will be launched on the market Volvo Technologies: City Safety, Collision Warning with Auto Brake and Pedestrian in a few years’ time. Volvo Cars’ employees have also received an award from the Detection. NHTSA, the American traffic safety administration, for significant contributions to automotive safety. Crash The car’s safety systems help to reduce the crash energy in order to minimise the PR1 Safety tests effect on the occupants and other road users. Examples of Volvo Technologies: Pat2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 ented Front Structure, SIPS, WHIPS, ROPS, Child Safety and Pedestrian technology. Share of independent tests where Volvo Cars received the highest rank (%) 89 88 80 70 69 After collision The car automatically calls for assistance and facilitates the rescue work. Examples of Volvo Technologies: Volvo on Call. As many as 50 million people are injured every year in road accidents and approximately 1.3 million die as a result of these accidents. For this reason, safety is a core value to us and since the foundation of Volvo in 1927 we have worked continuously on enhancing safety, not only for the occupants of our cars to help reduce their risk of injury in case of an accident, but also for those in their vicinity. 1 The driver is kept informed of his/her driver status and Holistic view of safety – five phases to improve vehicle safety attention. 2 The driver can manage the situation. Our work to improve vehicle safety is carried out in five phases from normal driving to after collision. These five phases, shown right in figure to the right, are Normal driving, Conflict, Avoidance, Crash and After collision. 3 The driver is less capable of managing the situation. The vehicle can manage the situation. 4 Driver and vehicle are incapable of avoiding the collision. Preparation for collision, reduction of impact damage. NORMAL DRIVING CONFLICT AVOIDANCE MITIGATION AFTER COLLISION FIVE PHASES OF AN ACCIDENT 5 Offer of help and rescue. The chain of events in a traffic accident can be divided into five phases – from a normal driving situation to after the accident has happened. Based on these five phases, Volvo Cars develops new and improves existing safety solutions. PR1 Results of independent car safety tests 20111) Test body Test method C30 C70 S40 S60 S80 V50 V70 XC60 XC70 XC90 Euro NCAP (from CY2009) Combined 1 n/t n/t 1 n/t n/t 1 1 n/t n/t Euro NCAP Adult n/t n/t 1 n/t n/t n/t n/t n/t n/t 1 (before CY2009) Child n/t n/t 2 n/t n/t n/t n/t n/t n/t n/t Pedestrian n/t n/t 3 n/t n/t n/t n/t n/t n/t 2 Combined n/t n/t n/t 1 n/t n/t n/t 1 n/t n/t US NCAP Frontal crash test n/t n/t n/t 1 n/t n/t n/t 1 n/t n/t (from CY2011) Side crash test n/t n/t n/t 1 n/t n/t n/t 1 n/t n/t Rollover test n/t n/t n/t 1 n/t n/t n/t 2 n/t 2 US NCAP Frontal crash test n/t n/t 2 n/t n/t n/t n/t n/t n/t 1 (before CY2011 Side crash test n/t n/t 1 n/t n/t n/t n/t n/t n/t 1 Rollover test n/t n/t 2 n/t n/t n/t n/t n/t n/t 2 IIHS Top Safety Pick 1 n/t 1 1 n/t n/t 1 n/t 1 Frontal crash test 1 1 1 1 1 n/t n/t 1 n/t 1 Side impact crash test 1 1 2 1 1 n/t n/t 1 n/t 1 Rear/Whiplash 1 1 1 1 1 n/t n/t 1 n/t 1 Roof strength 1 n/t 2 1 1 n/t n/t 1 n/t 1 China NCAP Combined n/t n/t 1 n/t n/t n/t n/t n/t n/t n/t Australasian NCAP Combined 1 n/t 1 1 n/t n/t 1 1 n/t 1 Folksam Safe car choice 1 n/t 1 1 1 1 1 1 n/t 1 Injury and fatality data n/t n/t 1 n/t n/t 1 n/t n/t n/t n/t Whiplash 1 1 1 n/t 1 1 1 1 1 1 Thatcham Whiplash 1 1 1 n/t 1 1 1 1 1 1 1) Latest results of independent car safety tests on our models. The results are shown in the form of rankings, with ‘1’ denoting the highest ranking, ‘2’ the second highest, ‘3’ average rating, ‘n/t’ not tested by the independent test bodies, and ‘-‘ not achieved. Volvo Car Corporation – GRI Report 2011 36 PR5 Practices related to customer satisfaction, The purpose of the corporate instruction is to ensure that the company’s advertising and PR material is produced in accordance with applicable laws and regulations, including results of surveys measuring customer and in line with the company’s own applicable guidelines as issued from time to satisfaction time. The instruction is applicable to all marketing and PR representation of the company to the public or dealers concerning the characteristics, performance, The car is probably the consumer product that gets most attention from the media quality, benefits, prices, or services of Volvo Cars’ products. It also applies to dealer and the public. There are many newspaper columns and TV programmes about the advertising and merchandise funded entirely or partially by the company. It covers automotive industry and the discussion about cars tends to be lively and engaged. such material in whatever form it is produced, including but not limited to, advertiseBecause our success is built on satisfied customers, it is natural for Volvo Cars ments, TV commercials and interactive web material. to take advantage of this public and media interest to obtain valuable information. When we plan our products and services, we do this on the basis of careful analyses of different customers’ needs and desires. During the development phase of a PR7 Total number of incidents of non-compliance product, we perform tests about how the proposed solutions are perceived by our consumers. By combining the customer evaluations with our own tests, we work to with regulations and voluntary codes concerning find a final solution that is the best for our customers. marketing communications When our cars have reached the market, we follow closely how they are received by media, through feedback from dealers, and, most importantly, by holding a diaVolvo Cars continuously review their marketing communication according to the logue with our customers. Volvo Cars Corporate Marketing Instruction. The ambition of the company is to The new Volvo Cars’ company strategy has quality and customer satisfaction keep the incidents of non-compliance at a zero level by monitoring new laws and high on the agenda, and a number of key initiatives have been taken that will further regulations, reviewing marketing communication and educating employees working strengthen our position around the world. These initiatives include: with marketing communication. The responsibility for leading the work of conduct• Reinforced quality organisation ing marketing in a fair and honest manner and in accordance with regulations and • New quality policy voluntary codes is driven by the following different areas within the company: Legal, • Working procedures developed to attain a higher quality and customer focus Global Communications and Safety communication. Each market worldwide is • Refocused targets and management regarding quality and customer satisfaction responsible for its own marketing and for ensuring that the marketing initiatives are Some of these measures will be noticed by our customers rather quickly. Others carried out in accordance with the Volvo Cars Corporate Marketing Instruction. are more long-term. Regardless of the time scale, our aim is to maintain a worldThere has been no incident of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary class level of quality. codes concerning marketing communications during 2011. PR6 Programmes for adherence to laws, standards, and voluntary codes related to marketing communications Our in-house guidance states that all of Volvo Cars’ products and services shall be marketed and sold in a fair and honest manner. Marketing of products and services should always comply with national legislation and be conducted in an honest and fair manner in relation to the characteristics of the product or service. The Volvo Cars’ Corporate Marketing Instruction provides guidance on the preparation and documentation of company advertising and PR material, such as, but not limited to, press releases and launch material. The instruction reaffirms the commitment of the company that its advertising and PR material shall be accurate, truthful and in good taste. Volvo Car Corporation – GRI Report 2011
