Global Compact Communication on Progress Messe Frankfurt 2011/2012 On the title and in the body of this Communication on Progress (CoP) our new key visual will accompany you. The four colours stand for the fields of action of our CSR programme. The dynamics of the organic shapes reflect key figures from our activities. 3 Global Compact 2011 / 2012 Our Responsibility Preface from the Executive Board Sustainable thinking and action play a central role at Messe Frankfurt, especially considering that trade fairs are platforms for ideas, new concepts and innovative products. Together with our stakeholders, we act as catalysts to promote new developments through our dedication and convictions. At our events around the globe, we showcase solutions for a sustainable future, such as energy-efficient building technology at Light+Building, sustainably produced fashion at the Ethical Fashion Show and the GREENshowroom or electromobility at Automechanika. Messe Frankfurt has always attached great value to social responsibility. Sustainability and corporate social responsibility are thus not only key themes at our events but a firmly established element of our business strategy. We have joined the Global Compact and officially endorse the ten principles of this initiative in the areas of human rights, labour, the environment and anti-corruption. We are committed to upholding these principles and will continue to adhere to them in the future. In the reporting period, we have taken many small and large steps to expand our CSR activities. For example, we are currently building one of the world’s most sustainable conference centres, the new Kap Europa building, we continue to promote sustainability in the fashion industry through our cooperation with Esmod, the International University of Art for Fashion, and our catering services increasingly feature fair trade and regional products. The following pages tell you more about what we have achieved in the past year and what we have planned for the future. Sincerely yours, Wolfgang Marzin President and Chief Executive Officer (CEO), Messe Frankfurt GmbH 4 Global Compact 2011 / 2012 About Messe Frankfurt Global partner Organising trade fairs means more to us than just Leisure, Textiles & Textile Technologies, Mobility bringing people together. First and foremost, trade & Infrastructure and Media & Creation shape interfairs are about innovations, emotions, ideas, contacts national markets and trends. – and of course business. The face-to-face conversaMesse Frankfurt plays an important role in the city tions that take place during our events build a sense and the region. In addition to 923 jobs in Frankfurt, of community and enhance the cohesion of the the company secures 18,700 jobs indirectly in the industry as a whole. Personal relationships foster region and another 13,800 in Germany. Thanks to its trust. And this is the best foundation for doing outstanding profitability, Messe Frankfurt distributes business in the future. annual profits to its shareholders, the city of Frankfurt and the state of Hesse, while generating EUR 2.2 The Messe Frankfurt Group combines all disciplines billion in additional sales for local companies. of the trade fair business: ownership and operation of one of the largest exhibition grounds in the world; But our responsibility and influence do not end at our trade fair, convention and event organisation at our own doorstep. As the largest trade fair organiser in headquarters and around the world; and extensive the world with its own exhibition grounds, we are services including logistics, stand construction and present for our customers in more than 150 countries. catering, as well as training and further education We promote sustainability and responsible business opportunities at Akademie Messe Frankfurt. The wherever we operate in our global network of leading international industry events in the fields 28 subsidiaries, five branch offices, 52 international of Technology & Production, Consumer Goods & sales partners and 1,769 employees worldwide. Catalyst for sustainability In our core business of trade fairs, we fulfil our role the topic of water resource management. The as a catalyst for sustainability in close cooperation industries’ leading fairs ISH and Light+Building with industry communities. Many of our international point out energy efficiency and renewable energy. flagship fairs, both our own and guest events, have In September 2012, Messe Frankfurt will host areas of emphasis in energy efficiency, recycling, the 27th European Photovoltaic Solar Energy Conwater management, waste disposal or eco-textiles. ference and Exhibition (EU PVSEC). Special shows, conferences and other formats address sustainability at all our fairs throughout the The long-term cooperation between Messe Frankfurt world. and fair organiser UBM Live also takes sustainability goals into consideration. A joint sustainability For instance Messe Frankfurt Hong Kong in coopestatement includes an agreement to make events ration with the Chinese government organises sustainable in the comprehensive sense. Water Expo China + Water Membrane China on 5 Global Compact 2011 / 2012 Corporate Social Responsibility Our philosophy Messe Frankfurt has always set great store by the ecological and social factors. In this sense, sustaiprinciples of sustainability. The development of nability is a firmly established component of our Frankfurt into an international financial service hub business philosophy and culture and is reflected in would hardly be conceivable had it not been a our activities in all parts of the company around the thriving trade fair centre over the centuries, which globe. New regulations and activities are decided by gave also rise to the establishment of the Frankfurt a group-wide Advisory Committee. Adjusted to local stock exchange in 1585. parameters they are implemented decentrally, which demonstrates our strong local connection In other words, our commitment to corporate resnot just at our headquarters in Frankfurt but all over ponsibility and sustainability is not a new concept, the world. but is based on the close relationship forged in the course of more than 800 years of trade fair history Since 2012, the claim “simply sustainable” along between the city of Frankfurt and the state of Hesse, with a logo has been used to designate Messe which are also owners of the company today. Frankfurt’s diverse CSR activities. The logo is currently available in a German and an Englisch Sustainability today means responsible business version, and is planned to be translated into other practices, something that encompasses economic, languages for the international subsidiaries. 6 Global Compact 2011 / 2012 Fields of activity Credibility and lasting impact are the key criteria for In the area of Education / Science, Messe Frankfurt selecting and implementing CSR activities which is systematically involved in the region in the long ideally complement Messe Frankfurt’s portfolio. Our term. The company is proud to sponsor the Chair activities are divided into four fields. of International Economic Policy at Frankfurt University as part of its corporate citizenship. In the field of Environment / Sustainability, we have Furthermore, Akademie Messe Frankfurt serves implemented a number of ecological measures as a comprehensive professional development at our exhibition grounds, related for instance to network offering training and further qualification energy efficiency, materials management, logistics for employees, stakeholders and communities. and traffic. Messe Frankfurt’s Cultural Involvement includes Social Responsibility at Messe Frankfurt involves an targeted sponsorship of events and organisations, obligation to our employees, our stakeholders and awarding prizes for outstanding achievements society in general. Of emphasis here are the abovein architecture, design and music, and organising average working conditions at our sites around the the Luminale festival of lighting held in parallel globe and our support for social institutions in the to Light+Building. region. Activities worldwide In 2011/2012, Messe Frankfurt increasingly focused sponsors the Prix Ethical Fashion honouring the best on extending its CSR activities internationally. And sustainable fashion collection from an up-andwith great success: through their own initiatives, coming designer at the Dinard International Festival our subsidiaries and branch offices share our CSR of Young Fashion Designers. involvement throughout the world. Mesago Messe Frankfurt in Japan is involved in While Messe Frankfurt promotes a fair work climate social projects. Bottle caps are for example colleby joining the Charter of Diversity in Germany, cted and donated there as part of the Ecocap MoveMesse Frankfurt Hong Kong emphasises its commitment. The proceeds subsequently are used to ment in this area by being a member of the Equal finance lifesaving vaccines for children in developing Opportunities Commission (EOC). The aim is to countries. promote diversity and equal opportunities for everyone. Messe Frankfurt France shows its dedication to culture at the Ethical Fashion Show, where it 7 Global Compact 2011 / 2012 News 2011 / 2012 Kap Europa congress building We set ourselves the goal of creating one of the most standard. It will meet the highest standards for sustainable congress centres in the world. The sustainable construction and operation. On a total new Kap Europa centre is currently being built in the of four levels, Kap Europa will feature a large hall immediate vicinity of the exhibition grounds. for 1,000 people, a smaller room for 600 which can be subdivided, and 12 additional conference rooms. In fact, Kap Europa will be the first conference building to be certified according to the recognised Construction has already begun, and the building is DGNB (German Sustainable Building Council) expected to open for business in summer 2014. Fair trade Messe Frankfurt is pleased to serve exclusively fair trade coffee in its staff restaurants as of December 2011. By making this switch, we communicate our support for fair trade and increase awareness of this issue amongst our employees. Moreover, all employees help to reduce waste in the company: reusable porcelain coffee mugs have been available since late 2011 for coffee to go, instead of disposable cups. 8 Global Compact 2011 / 2012 Zero-emission cars in the fleet of vehicles Messe Frankfurt has added two zero-emission cars promotes the spread of innovative and environmento its fleet of vehicles. The environmentally friendly tal-friendly technologies. The two cars are used technology of the new battery-driven E-cell and the primarily on the exhibition grounds and within hydrogen-powered F-cell vehicles is another contrithe city of Frankfurt, making them ideal vehicles bution to sustainable business. Thus Messe Frankfurt for the needs of the company. Working conditions Training and continuing education for our emplonal development and continuing education, for yees is of great importance to Messe Frankfurt. instance at Messe Frankfurt Akademie in Frankfurt. 23 apprentices are currently being trained in FrankMoreover, comprehensive health management furt as office clerks, event managers, IT specialists services are also available including smoking and event technicians as part of our apprenticeship cessation programmes, sport courses and medical programmes and dual courses of study. To further services. One of our highly successful initiatives promote training and a successful career start for is Brainfood, a series of courses on nutrition. young people, Messe Frankfurt also takes part in an initiative to help youth find apprenticeships and Messe Frankfurt conducts regular employee suragrees to provide a long-term training position as veys, which are systematically evaluated and if part of this programme, which targets young people required targeted measures are taken in response. who would otherwise not find a trainee position on The most recent survey once again indicated their own. exceptionally high values for employee loyalty and satisfaction. We offer our employees above-average working conditions at all of our locations including professioAnti-corruption Messe Frankfurt works to prevent corruption A new interactive behavioural training programme amongst all group employees. There are unambifor preventing corruption increases awareness guous, mandatory rules for accepting gifts and and provides concrete information and recommenfavours. The objective is to avoid even the impresdations for behaviour. Information on this topic sion of conflicts of interest and illegal practices. is summarised on the intranet and is accessible to If illegal methods are suspected, employees may every employee. anonymously contact an external ombudsman. 9 Global Compact 2011 / 2012 Smart Grids In 2012, the world’s leading trade fair for lighting and building services technology, Light+Building, featured energy efficiency as top subject. An issue that is of vital importance for a sustainable future. The so-called ‚smart grid‘ is one solution in this context. In the special show „Buildings as power stations in the smart grid“ visitors could experience and learn about the future of building technologies. The exhibition showcased the central building block of the smart grid: the networked building as a power station that generates, uses, stores and distributes energy locally. Eco-fashion Messe Frankfurt and the International University of 30 international textile fairs every year. Messe Art for Fashion Esmod (École Supérieure des Arts Frankfurt already has two specialised events in et Techniques de la Mode) have entered into a sustainable fashion in its portfolio, the Ethical long-term partnership to jointly promote sustainFashion Show in Paris and the GREENshowroom ability in the fashion industry. The aim of the in Berlin. The Ethical Fashion Show presents more cooperation is to establish environmentally friendly than one hundred brands in this area, while the fashion produced in accordance with socially GREENshowroom highlights high-end fashion, responsible standards amongst designers, produaccessories and lifestyle products. cers and users. The issues of eco-fashion and sustainability will be successively integrated into Messe Frankfurt and Esmod look forward to develothe curriculum. ping a viable platform for fashion produced under environmentally friendly and socially responsible Messe Frankfurt has many years of experience and conditions and reinforcing the importance of an international network in the field of textiles eco-fashion in the long term. and sustainable fashion. We organise more than 10 Global Compact 2011 / 2012 The UN Global Compacts ten principles Human rights Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Labour Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Environment Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Anti-corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Messe Frankfurt GmbH Ludwig-Erhard-Anlage 1 60327 Frankfurt am Main, Germany Tel. +49 69 75 75-56 61 Fax +49 69 75 75-66 00 csr@messefrankfurt.com www.messefrankfurt.com V.i.S.d.P. Kai Hattendorf Editor Corinna Züge
