May, 11th 2012 Communication on Progress 2011 United Nations Global Compact V i v e n d i – C o m m u n i c a t i o n o n P r o g r e s s 2 0 1 1 SOMMAIRE  Vivendi at a glance p. 3  CEO’s Statement p. 6 I l  Implementation t ti off th i i l within the tten principles ithi ViVivendi di  Human Rights p. 7  Labour Standards p. 13 Focus / Human Rights g & Labour Standards / Supplierspp p. 15 p  Environment p. 16  Anti-corruption p. 18 A Appendix di p. 20  Vivendi Compliance Program 2 V i v e n d i – C o m m u n i c a t i o n o n P r o g r e s s 2 0 1 1 VIVENDI AT A GLANCE Vivendi is at the core of the universe of content, platforms, and interactive networks  Vivendi creates, publishes and distributes digital products and services. The Group relies on the strength of its inventors and designers, its engineers and its brands to offer to its customers digital content, platforms, and distribution networks of the highest g qquality. y It controls the entire value chain,, from pproduction to ppublishingg and distribution of content ((video ggames,, music, and audiovisual works). Businesses panorama No. 1 worldwide in No. 1 worldwide in No. 1 alternative No. 1 in telecoms in No. 1 alternative No. 1 in Pay tv in France video games recorded music telecoms operator in Morocco telecoms operator in France’ss leading publisher of France An independent Number one in most France The number one mobile Brazil premium and theme publisher of major countries, and Europe’s premier and fixed-line The best performing channels, France’s leader in online and console the largest catalog of mobile and fixed-line telecommunications high-speed operator in aggregation and distribution video games. musical works. alternative operator in Morocco, Brazil offering of Pay tv offers, and Europe’s telecommunications which also has a fixed-line telephony, telephony largest producer and operator. foothold in Burkina Faso, Internet, and Pay tv distributor of films.. Gabon, Mauritania and services and products. Mali. Vivendi owns zaOza (a subscription-based sharing website), Digitick (France’s leader in electronic ticketing), See Tickets (the numbertwo ticketing business in the UK), UK) and Wengo (the French leader in expert phone counseling) counseling). 3 V i v e n d i – C o m m u n i c a t i o n o n P r o g r e s s 2 0 1 1 Key figures (12.31.2011) 4 V i v e n d i – C o m m u n i c a t i o n o n P r o g r e s s 2 0 1 1 Key figures (12.31.2011) following 5 V i v e n d i – C o m m u n i c a t i o n o n P r o g r e s s 2 0 1 1 CEO’S CEO S STATEMENT Vivendi is proud of being a signatory of the United Nations Global Compact. The present document, our « Communication on progress » for 2011, allows us to present and explain our commitment in favour of the United Nations Global Compact’s ten principles. We demonstrate how the Group has fully integrated each of the four major issues – namely human rights, labour standards, environment and anti-corruption – within our strategy, our activities and our sustainable development policy. Vivendi’s contribution to sustainable development is a specific one: empowering present and future generations to satisfy their need to communicate, feed their curiosity, develop their talent and encourage intercultural dialogue. Vivendi is committed to promoting human rights through its content production and distribution activities and through its services offer. The Group’s business units play a major role in strengthening mutual understanding and social ties. By choosing to promote cultural diversity on the different continents where the Group operates, by investing massively in content and in networks, Vivendi’s ambition is to encourage its customers to engage and participate in cultural life, facilitating their communication through information and communication technologies, and fostering a spirit of openness between peoples and generations. Our three sustainable development specific issues defined as soon as 2003 (protection and empowerment of youth, promotion of cultural diversity, sharing knowledge) stem from human rights. They refer to international standards such as the United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child of 1989, the UNESCO Universal Declaration on Cultural Diversity of 2001, or, of course, the Universal Declaration of Human Rights of 1948. Indeed, its article 27 declares that the right of everyone freely to participate in the cultural life of the community and to enjoy the arts. I feel strongly that culture and intercultural dialogue must be recognized as pillars of sustainable development, and I commit myself to seeingg that Vivendi contributes actively to promote them. Paris, May, 11th 2012 Jean Jean-Bernard Bernard Lévy, CEO 6 V i v e n d i – C o m m u n i c a t i o n o n P r o g r e s s 2 0 1 1 IMPLEMENTATION OF THE GLOBAL COMPACT COMPACT’S S TEN PRINCIPLES WITHIN VIVENDI IN 2011  Vivendi ppursues an active dialogue g with its Hum man R Rights s Businesses should stakeholders and regularly brings together employees  Vivendi contributes, within its sphere of influence, to promote and representatives of civil society to discuss the key support and respect human rights and ensure its employee’s awareness on the topic. 1 topics of sustainable development and the promotion of the protection of human rights internationally proclaimed human  In 2003, Vivendi defined the protection of youth as  Vivendi must reconcile the development of content and service one of its specific issues in sustainable development. The rights within their offerings enabled by new technologies with the protection of group evaluates the impact of its product and service sphere of influence ; young audiences against harmful behaviors. offerings on young audiences in terms of opportunities or risks, and apprehends generational approaches of media and cultural practices.  Vivendi shares the vision of UNESCO, whose March 2007 Convention on the Protection and Promotion of the Diversity of  In 2003, the group defined the promotion of cultural diversity as one of its specific issues in sustainable p Cultural Expressions states that cultural diversityy is “a mainspring p g d l development andd contributes ib to promoting i theh variety i for the sustainable development for communities, peoples, and and diversity of its content in all forms of expression. nations.”  Vivendi Vi di commits it itself ti i t in it lf tto supportt andd participate i the h i th sharing  In 2003, 2003 Vivendi defined the sharing of knowledge as one of its specific issues in sustainable development. The of knowledge and access to new technologies (8th Millennium group contributes to producing pluralistic quality content Development Goal defined by United Nations). for a large and diverse audience, and to facilitating access to this content and to new technologies. 7 V i v e n d i – C o m m u n i c a t i o n o n P r o g r e s s 2 0 1 1  Vivendi’s Compliance Program formalizes the group’s and make sure that  Vivendi is committed to support and to implement the commitments, concerning human rights, on the form of rules of 2 they are not complicit in human rights fundamental principles of human rights and promotes them to conduct. Adherence to these rules of conduct is a condition for its suppliers and providers. belonging to Vivendi, and an annual progress report, based on these rules of conduct, is prepared by Vivendi’s General abuses abuses. Counsel’s office and presented to the Audit Committee. Examples to illustrate the implementation of Human rights’ principles: In 2011, Vivendi made changes to its extra-financial Our specific issues reporting process. Article 116 of the New Economic stem from human rights Regulations Act (NRE) of 2001 did not call for a specific societal chapter. Yet as early as 2007, Vivendi had organized  The protection and empowerment of youth are set the collection of societal information related to its three down in the United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child of 1989 (Art (Art. 17). 17) strategic issues (protection and empowerment of youth,  The promotion of cultural diversity relates to the Universal Declaration of Human Rights of 1948 promotion of cultural diversity, sharing of knowledge). (Art. 27), the UNESCO Universal Declaration on Cultural Diversity of 2001 (Art. 5), and the France’s “Grenelle II” Law specifies and strengthens the UNESCO Convention on the Protection and Promotion of the Diversity of Cultural Expressions of societal dimension of companies’ extra-financial reporting. In 2005 (Art. 2). order to comply with the Law Law, Vivendi has defined societal  Sharing knowledge contributes fully to the exercise of human rights as recalled in the Charter of indicators directly related to its business activities and Fundamental Rights of the European Union of 2000 (Art. 11) relating to freedom of expression integrated its three strategic issues into the area of and information and the United Nations Millennium Development Goals of 2000. “Actions undertaken in favor of human rights.” Area for action Area for action Sharing of knowledge Area for action P Promotion l i off cultural l diversity di i  Promoting pluralism of information and quality of Protection and empowerment of youth  Encouraging creation in all its diversity content  Promoting rules of professional ethics  Promoting young and new talents  Encouraging intercultural dialogue  Raising the awareness of young people and parents  Strengthening local cultural production  Raising awareness about sustainable development  Adapting parental control to the multimedia environment capacities  Facilitatingg access to ICTs and content: Struggling gg g  Empowering youth audiences in their media practices  Promoting P ti cultural lt l heritage h it against digital divides 8 V i v e n d i – C o m m u n i c a t i o n o n P r o g r e s s 2 0 1 1 Protection and empowerment of youth (1/2) In 2011, the Chairman of Vivendi’s Management Board was a founding member of the CEO Coalition to make the Internet a better place for kids, CEO Coalition an initiative of Neelie Kroes (Vice President of to make the Internet a the EU Commission in charge of digital strategy) better place for kids aimed at making the Internet safer and better suited to children’s needs. Perfectly in line with the ©Vivendi © sustainable development policy conducted by Vivendi, this initiative also enables the Group to share best ppractices with other companies p in the same business areas. For the first time in 2011, one of the Statutory Auditors of Vivendi has continued its partnership with Vivendi has verified the indicator integrated g in the Group’s p European Schoolnet and the Insafe societal reporting, relating to protection and empowerment of network to launch the Pan-EU Youth youth: ”Existence of a formal commitment to professional ethics online platform. This innovative regarding content (production and/or distribution), part of which program is aimed at giving young Europeans a specifically concerns protection of young audiences.” space wherein they can express themselves and discuss citizenshipp topics. p A group g p of ambassadors aged 14 to 19 was put together and Under the EU Commission’s consulted in preparation for a seminar devoted to Safer Internet program, Vivendi young people and their digital life held by Vivendi spoke during the « Policy Shaping in Paris (see p. 30). The ambassadors, from through Youth Participation » panel g several countries (Bulgaria, Denmark, Ireland, a the Safer Internet Forum held in Luxembourg in October 2011. 2011 Portugal, the Czech Republic and Slovakia), have Moreover, Vivendi relays each year the been prepared to lead the debates, bringing awareness-raising campaign aimed at together representatives from French and giving young Internet users a better © ©Vivendi European institutional, academic, medical, and understanding of the need to think non-profit communities as well as industry carefully before posting texts texts, videos ©Vivendi representatives from Vivendi’s subsidiaries. of photos exposing their private lives online (“Think Before You Post”). 9 V i v e n d i – C o m m u n i c a t i o n o n P r o g r e s s 2 0 1 1 Protection and empowerment of youth (2/2) Activision Blizzard promotes age and content rating systems. The group adheres to PEGI (Pan European Game Information) and PEGI online codes in Europe, and ESRB (Entertainment Software Rating Board) advertising guidelines in the United States. Pursuant to these rating Vivendi has pursued dialog with its stakeholders, by systems, Activision Blizzard displays the age group for which a particular product is intended on t bl consulting notably lti La V i de L Voix d ll’EEnfant f t andd the th Collectif C ll tif its i product d packaging k i andd advertising, d i i guidelines li bl advertising d i i respects applicable id li andd PEGI interassociatif enfance et media (CIEME) on the theme of online privacy principles. responsible marketing. Indeed the CIEME conducts an ongoing watch of media and content companies’ societal responsibility through panels made up of parents of schoolchildren schoolchildren. Vivendi also engages in reflection with researchers at the Sorbonne nouvelle university and the French National Rating frameworks for video games PEGI and ESRB Commission for UNESCO on the implementation of PEGI / top row, from left to right: 3 and over, 7 and over, 12 and over, 16 and over, 18 and over; awareness-raising actions aimed at educating young bottom, from left to right, discrimination, frightening images, drugs, online game, people about the media and the news. news gambling, nudity or sex, explicit language, violence ESRB / from left to right : adult only 18+, early childhood, everyone 10+, everyone, mature 17+, teen. GVT has an educational website for children, parents and teachers SFR has improved parental dedicated to responsible Internet use, control on mobile to give young ©Sampaio, Cuca Studio ((http://www.internetresponsavel.com.br). p // p ) It features videos,, reports p and ppeople p a complete p solution for links to other sites to help children, parents and teachers use the Internet filtering Web traffic. Formerly in a safe and ethic way. limited to the services In December 2011, GVT launched a new version of the Guide to accessible from the operator’s Responsible Internet Use plus ten original new comic strips and portal and Gallery, Internet articles coveringg safe, responsible p waysy to use the Internet. For the first access is now ppossible and time, the guide includes a mobile version for tablet computers and secure. SFR has also smartphones with free download. implemented the first mobile These publications are the result of an initiative begun in 2008 in portal for the youngest users, ©Sampaio, CCuca Studio partnership with the Committee for Democracy in Information Portail Junior, which offers Technology (CDI), a NGO that has broken new ground in digital enriched content that is vetted integration for Latin America that has also the support of Safernet, and adapted to their interests a NGO focused on cyber crimes combat and defence through a search engine, site recommendations, of Human Rights in the Internet. and reporting of inappropriate sites. 10 ©SFR V i v e n d i – C o m m u n i c a t i o n o n P r o g r e s s 2 0 1 1 Promotion of cultural diversity On the occasion of World Day for Cultural With a view towards including culture in the worldwide Diversity for Dialogue and Development sustainable development agenda, Vivendi gain brought ©Vivendi on May 21, 2012, Vivendi inaugurated an together a working group that includes representatives of the UN, institutional website entitled Unesco, OECD, ALECSO and the EU Commission. The goal is to C lt ( ) with « Culture(s) ith Vi Vivendi: di A journey j better b tt iintegrate t t culture lt iinto t th the assessmentt off well-being ll b i andd through cultural diversity ». economic and social progress. Also, as an expert designated by the French National Commission for UNESCO, Vivendi took part in the This site is intended mainly for Internet users ages 15 to 30 and is aimed at work devoted to the theme “Cultural and Digital Diversity.” promoting cultural diversity and dialogue between cultures and building a bridge between young people and the culture industries industries. 2nd edition of the Activision In 2011, more than 60% of It comprises three parts, which correspond to specific goals: Independent Games Universal Music Group’s sales • « Artist inspiration » is intended to facilitate young audiences’ access to a Competition, intended to are by local artists variety of music and film repertoires they are sometimes unfamiliar with; encourage independent within a scope of 59 countries. • « Creative jobs » is aimed at encouraging young people to get involved in the creators and studios. lt iindustries culture d t i andd bbetter d t d the tt understand th different diff t career areas our bbusiness i units are involved in (cinema, music, video games); Five Gramophone Awards, the Oscars of • « Intercultural dialogue » is an invitation to get to know different cultures classical music, awarded to artists signed by Decca better and understand how the digital universe serves as an effective bridge for Classics and Deutsche Grammophon labels in exchange, joy and discovery. October 2011. In 2011, Vivendi continued its professional training In France, Canal+ participates actively to support creation by Financing of 57% of the French-initiative program for sound engineers in Mali, launched in films approved by the CNC (French national center for cinema and animated image), or 118 films out of 2006 in partnership with UNESCO. The training is 207. Canal+ also financed 30 first French-initiative films approved by the CNC (41.1% of the Frenchorganized at the studio Le Moffou, run by Malian initiative films).) The channel invested € 29 million in films with budgets g of under €4 million. author composer and performer Salif Keita. author-composer Keita With this support, Vivendi thus contributes to Cinematographic diversity is one of the consolidating professional cultural skills in Canal+ Africa supports pillars of the editorial line of the Mali. Vivendi also supports training for students at numerous African Studiocanal, European studio channel Canal+, 92% of subscribers the Institut spécialisé dans les métiers du cinéma cinematographic and subsidiary of Canal+ affirm that genres of films aired are (Film Professions Institute – ISMC) in Ouarzazate. Ouarzazate productions. Thus, in Group, has participated in 13 varied and 89% declared to be Vivendi is the official founding partner of the 2011, 5 projects French and foreign cosatisfied by the cinema offer at the Rencontres internationales du cinéma sous la were co-financed. productions. end of 2011. tente held every year since 2010. 11 V i v e n d i – C o m m u n i c a t i o n o n P r o g r e s s 2 0 1 1 Partage des connaissances In 2011, GVT has extended its coverage to 22 SFR and Emmaüs Défi additional cities, and continued their mobilenow operates in a total of The United Nations invited Vivendi to the fourth Alliance of Civilizations telephony solidarity 119 cities in Brazil. On the image ©GVT Forum held between December 11 program for persons in a opposite, the presence of GVT at and 13, 13 2011 in Doha (Qatar) (Qatar). precarious i situation. it ti 12.31.2012. During the plenary session devoted to the theme “New Strategies for The Maroc Telecom group participates actively © Marroc Telecom Intercultural Dialogue, Understanding in reducing the digital divide in the countries and Cooperation,” Vivendi explained how promoting cultural diversity where it is present. Thus, it covered 1,707 and intercultural dialogue are strategic issues in its sustainable LLibrary additional ddi i l rurall llocalities li i iin 2011 2011. Moreover, M development policy and accompany the Group’s business challenge – to the installation of an international innovate continuously in order to continue to satisfy its tens of millions of submarine fiber-optic cable between Morocco and Spain has been launched in clients on all continents in the era of the digital revolution. 2012. The objective is to strengthen the security of Internet traffic. In Morocco, the operator devoted 19.5% of its network investments to reducing The Call of Duty Endowment was company created by Activision Blizzard in th di the digital it l divide di id 2009 to help soldiers transition to civilian careers after their military service. In 2011, Activision Publishing donated $3 million to the Call of Vivendi and the United Duty Endowment in an effort to ensure that U.S. military heroes have Nations Alliance stable employment upon their return from active duty. of Civilizations share the ambition of making the promotion of cultural diversity and intercultural By a committed documentary dialogue part of the worldwide sustainable development agenda. Vivendi offer (Makay, les aventuriers d’un presented its strategic orientations in the area of sustainable development to monde perdu; Paris Clichy / Paris some 15 young leaders from the Middle East and the Maghreb who came to Paris clichés ; Familles no carbone…), in September 2011 as part of the United Nations Alliance of Civilizations the channel Canal+ raises its Fellowship pprogram. pprogram subscribers’ awareness about Program’s goal is to build ties between Vivendi relayed the information sustainable development issues, young professionals from the Middle East, of the anniversary of the nourishing their critical thinking. the Maghreb, Europe and the Americas by Universal Declaration of Human organizing encounters with economic, Since April 2011, Canal+’s cultural and institutional actors in these Rights on its institutional customer space has been different regions of the world. website, on December 10th, accessible to deaf and hearing2011, the Human Rights Day. impaired persons 12 V i v e n d i – C o m m u n i c a t i o n o n P r o g r e s s 2 0 1 1 La abourr stran ndard ds  Vivendi works to establish a constructive Businesses should uphold the freedom of  Vivendi leads a process of dialogue and consultation 3 association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; dialogue between management and the competent bodies representing employees with the social unions in order to encourage collaboration and communication within the group. which respect their prerogatives. 4 the elimination of all forms of forced and  Vivendi supports and implements the compulsory labour;  The respect of individual dignity and private life, within fundamental principles of labour rights and employment conditions, is a clearly defined rule of conduct promotes them to its suppliers and 5 the effective abolition of child labour; and providers. id set down in Vivendi’s Compliance Program.  The fight against discrimination based on unlawful  Vivendi affirms and asserts its selection criteria such as sex, age, lifestyle, race, attachment to diversityy in recruitment and 6 the elimination th li i ti off di discrimination i i ti iin respect of employment and occupation. its fight against discrimination, which it holds to be guarantees of richness and ethnicity, h i i nationality, i li di disability, bili religious li i li i l or political opinions or beliefs, or union membership is a clearly defined rule of conduct set down in Vivendi’s Compliance performance. Program. Examples to illustrate the implementation of Labour standards’ principles: Throughout 2011, the corporate partners of the Group Works Council, the European In 2011, 100 collective agreements were signed within Authority for Dialog between Management and Labor and the headquarters’ Works Council the Group. the number of agreements concerning were regularly updated as to the Group’s strategy, financial position, social policy, and remunerations remain significant (65%). This is due main achievements for the fiscal year. The annual two-day training course covered Group mainly to the annual negotiations at GVT. The others strategy in the telecoms industry and knowledge of the various Vivendi business lines and agreement of addendum registered in 2011: workplace attendees were also introduced to the Audit Committee and Risk Committee. 2011 ended gender equality, optional and statutory profit sharing, with a mutual agreement to adapt the Group’s employee representative bodies to an group retirement savings plan, electronic voting, international environment (Morocco, Brazil and the USA). Accordingly, European establishment of a time bank, telecommuting, and social employee representatives and management have begun negotiations with a view to dialog. di l uniting the entire Group around a common set of corporate and societal goals. 13 V i v e n d i – C o m m u n i c a t i o n o n P r o g r e s s 2 0 1 1 Vivendi has implemented employees’ rights among the code of conduct set out 100% of the employees based in metropolitan France and in the within the Compliance Program: overseas departments (30% of the global headcount) are covered by “Ethical business practice is one of Vivendi’s fundamental values. Acting with collective agreements. Are also covered by collective agreements at probity, complying with the law, respecting the dignity and individual rights global level: l off employees, protecting fid ti lit placing t ti confidentiality, l i bbusiness i ethics thi above b the th 91 1% of the employees of the Maroc Telecom group  91.1% search for economic performance, protecting the Group’s property and resources:  100% of the employees of the Groupe Canal+ (including Canal+ these are all principles which must guide the professional conduct of employees Overseas) to ensure the Group’s business is conducted ethically and legally. (…)  100% of the employees of GVT (Brazil). The essential principles which form Vivendi’s employment policy — in the context of a constructive dialogue between management and the competent bodies Situation of gender equity within the Group, on December, 31st 2011: representing employees which respect their prerogatives — are to ensure the  The employment rate of women in the Group is 34% with on the safety of its employees wherever they may be, to respect their employment extreme 21% for Activision Blizzard, 24% for Maroc Telecom and rights, to give each of them recruitment, employment and promotion prospects 55% at Vivendi’s headquarters; based on their abilities and sense of responsibility, and to maintain employment  The part of women in managerial positions is 35%, in line with conditions which respect their individual dignity and private life. life ” p y their employment rate,, with a smaller part p for Activision Blizzard (26%) and Maroc Telecom (28%) and a bigger part for Canal+ Vivendi’s headquarters (47% et 48%). These percentages are At 12.31.2011, 10% of the Extract from Averroes Report 2011 : placing Vivendi 13th among the CAC 40 companies according to a Group’s employees were « Canal + has often been at the forefront classification realized by Challenges in October 2011; under 25 years old, 86% were of audiovisual innovation. It is today in  The part of women in the Supervisory board is 33% with four agedd 25 to 55, 4% were older t 55 ld 2011, th channel 2011 the h i on the l is tti th cutting women and places Vivendi 5th among CAC 40 companies than 55 ans. edge of diversity. » (according to the same classification). Apprenticeships are Employee share ownership and savings increased in 2011, as a result of the contributions made by the Group’s French essential for young employees companies under various participatory compensation plans (including statutory profit sharing, optional profit sharing and id advantages andd provide d ffor employer’s l ’ contribution). ib i ) A significant i ifi i off these portion h employeel savings i continuedi d to bbe allocated ll d to employee l businesses, allowing them to shareholdings. diversify their sources of The annual share capital for the benefit of the Group’s employees through the PEG was successfully completed. For the recruitment. In 2011, Vivendi fourth year consecutive year, the capital increase involved the simultaneous launch of a customary employee offering (in has continued the France) and a French and international leveraged plan which included an investment and minimum return guarantee, called commitment it l i 606 t , employing « Opus O 11 ». The Th objective bj ti off this thi program, with l ith leveraged h capital d share it l with t ith an iinvestment t andd minimum i i return t work-study contracts in France guarantee, is to allow the employees in the main countries where the Group is based to benefit without risk of the in 2011, compared to 669 in advantages of employee share. The Opus 11 program has been a great success. 14 2010 (on a like-for-like basis). Upon completion of the transaction, the portion of Vivendi’s share capital held by its employees was 2.68%. V i v e n d i – C o m m u n i c a t i o n o n P r o g r e s s 2 0 1 1 Focus / Human Rights & Labour Standards / Suppliers Aera of action Activision Blizzard conducted three audits Vigilance towards suppliers in plants located in China covering several • Promoting our standards and guidelines p aspects includingg adherence to labor legislation, g the conditions under which o Ensure that the Compliance Program is implemented products are manufactured, and application of anti-corruption regulations. o Enforce the commitments of the United Nations Global Compact o Include the sustainable development clause in supplier contracts SFR audited the CSR • Implementing monitoring instruments In 2010 Vivendi’s Internal Audit (corporate social o Feed back information relating to subcontractors and suppliers Department began a review of p y) responsibility) C d audits o Conduct li di off suppliers suppliers li on th the i off th the occasion approaches of two of its suppliers o Conduct evaluations audit conducted at Bravado, the (of mobiles and SFR boxes) in • Contributing to raising subsidiaries’ awareness of the suppliers issue Universal Music Group China. o Implement training in supplier management subsidiary in charge of SFR also evaluated 50 suppliers o Develop risk mapping merchandising activities. The on several criteria in its sustainable review continued in 2011 within development policy: environment, the Bravado entity in Germany. In 2011, Vivendi included four indicators relating to social, ethics, and purchasing. The subcontracting and suppliers in its extra-financial evaluation was followed by the reporting protocol: the existence of a commitment implementation of corrective action relating to the integration of sustainable development When issuing plans. issues; mechanisms for monitoring that commitment; tender calls, the percentage of the top 25 suppliers who are Canal+ evaluates Since 2010, Maroc Telecom has annexed a reminder of signatories of or comply with national or international equipment the obligation to adhere to the Moroccan Labor Code to guidelines; and the evaluation of adherence to the suppliers, among all contracts with suppliers and subcontractors. Group’s commitments. others, on the For the first time, one of the Statutory Auditors of basis of quality Within its Purchasing Department, Department GVT has created Vivendi has verified the first of these indicators about certifications and a Suppliers Development Department dedicated to taking the social and environmental issues into elements of their improving the performance of the supply chain and promoting consideration in the purchasing policy: “existence of a sustainable GVT’s commitments to responsible purchasing. The first stage of the formal commitment regarding inclusion of development process put in place calls for regular evaluation of suppliers on criteria sustainable d l i bl development iissues.”” li policy. matters, etc. environment social matters logistics environment, quality, logistics, regarding quality etc In July 2011, as the other Group’s subsidiaries, GVT integrated a clause related to the ten principles of the United Nations Global Compact. 15 V i v e n d i – C o m m u n i c a t i o n o n P r o g r e s s 2 0 1 1 E Enviro onmen nt BBusinesses i should h ld supportt a 7 precautionary approach to  Environmental awareness is a clearly defined environmental challenges;  Vivendi defends environmental awareness rule of conduct set down in Vivendi’s Compliance and takes full responsibility in this domain, Program. In 2000, the company put in place a 8 undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and while it operates in business sectors where exposure to environmental risks is relatively Program of compliance with environmental, health and workplace safety standards, as well as an low. Environmental Charter. encourage the development and 9 diffusion of environmental friendly technologies. Examples to illustrate the implementation of Environment Environment’ss principles: The process for reporting environmental data was revised in order to take into The seventh rule of the Compliance Program defines account the changes in the regulatory framework provided for in the so-called the commitment of Vivendi towards environment: “Grenelle II” Law. ” Vivendi undertakes to promote the respect of the Three areas for improvement were defined: environment in all its activities. It is up to each Group  rebuilding a network of coordinators in charge of collecting environmental employee to contribute, within the scope of his or her information in each business unit, duty, to the Group effort to protect the environment:  revising the indicators in order to retain the most pertinent ones and those by becoming familiar and complying with laws and most appropriate to the Group’s business activities, and regulations, instructions and procedures set out by its  improving the functionalities of the computerized reporting system to company; facilitate analysis of these data. by immediately reporting, to the attention of the persons responsible for managing such situations, any Vivendi’s head office, registered with EMAS since 2009, non compliance with regulation, risk situation or confirmed the certification of its Environmental Management incidents which he or she is aware of.” y System followingg the audit conducted in 2011. 16 V i v e n d i – C o m m u n i c a t i o n o n P r o g r e s s 2 0 1 1 For the sixth consecutive year, year The Energy Star SSFR continues its efforts in the area of eco-design of SFR obtained ISO 14001 certification SIM cards. 2011 saw the generalization of “EcoSIM” certification of its Environmental issued for the cards, whose size has been reduced by half compared Management System. The scope 5th year consecutively by the to a standard SIM card, to all its customers and the of the certification was extended United States Environmental launch of the first French pilot with paper SIM half-cards, too the e eco-design eco des g oof thee neufbox eu bo Protection o ec o Agency ge cy (EPA) ( ) aat UMG U G which hi h enable bl a nearlyl 30% reduction d ti off the th carbon b Evolution set-top box and to 14 headquarters in Santa Monica footprint compared to a standard-format plastic SIM card. new sites in the fixed network certified that the building Since November 2011, 10,000 paper SIM cards have been and one mixed site (tertiary obtained a rating greater than 75 gradually put in circulation and sent to SFR customers (when ©SFR and point of sale) on Reunion (out of 100) in terms of energy renewing or opening a line). Island. savings. g Maroc Telecom makes increasing use of solar energy to supply its network in unelectrified areas. Several fiber-optic cable In October 2011, the installations linking Agadir and Dakhla installed in 2010 are supplied with solar workshops. Solar energy accounts for company launched an 18% of the energy supply to the relay antennas installed under the PACTE program, in particular in southern Morocco. internal Impressão 2011 505 Maroc Telecom technical sites were powered by solar energy: 138 Hertzian relays, As of end 2011, relays 166 GSM Consciente (Responsible sites, 180 AMRT sites and 21 CDMA sites; this amounts to an increase of 13% over 2010. printing) campaign. On The use of solar is becoming more and more widespread in the subsidiaries, in particular for covering rural areas. The sites implementing this Sotelma network, in Mali, has 1,222 sites powered by solar energy. In Burkina Faso, Onatel uses solar energy to power initiative, the volume of 378 telecommunications facilities and systems deployed in its fixed and mobile networks. 22 Mauritel sites in Mauritania printed documents has were supplied with solar energy in 2011, 2011 bringing the total number of sites supplied with solar energy at end 2011 to 42. 42 decreased by 23%. And in Gabon, 150 Gabon Telecom sites use solar energy. A meeting of Vivendi’s Sustainable The Écopack+ implemented by Canal+ enables Development Committee was devoted delivery and take take-back back of set set-top top boxes to and theme h l h Impacts “Health “H I off from subscribers while generating improvements Radiofrequencies.” It brought together at the environmental level (100% recyclable the correspondents of the Group’s three packaging, eco-packaging declaration), but also telecommunications operators and an gains in productivity (30% gain in productivity, expert from the ANSES (national agency for 27% g pper ppallet),), costs ((a 17% % fewer ppackages % f d safety, food i f t environment t andd work). k) Th The reduction in total cost in 2011) and customer meeting brought participants up to date on satisfaction (99% of deliveries within 48 hours, the studies and research in progress and on quality visuals). 17 the measures put in place within the Group. ©Canal+ V i v e n d i – C o m m u n i c a t i o n o n P r o g r e s s 2 0 1 1 AntiiBusinesses should  Vivendi works against corruption in all corruption n  The fight against corruption and the receipt from or grant to work against its forms, including extortion and bribery, 10 corruption in all its forms, including and makes sure this principle is respected by all its suppliers and providers in all of any third party of an improper advantage of any kind for the purpose of obtaining preferential treatment is a clearly defined rule of conduct set down in Vivendi’s Compliance Program. extortion and bribery. the groups operating countries. Examples to illustrate the implementation of Anti-corruption’s principles: The rules of conduct set down in the Compliance program cover employees’ rights, fairness In May 2011, the General Counsel and Vivendi’s information, prevention of conflicts of interest and protection of information interest, commercial ethics, ethics Communication and Sustainable Development the protection of property and resources belonging to the group, financial ethics, and department organized an informational session respect for the environment. devoted to the struggle against corruption. The purpose of the program is to instill a sense of responsibility in employees and provide Sixty employees of the Head Office attended the them with guidelines in the form of points of reference that can aid them in shaping their training, during which many points were made conduct. These general rules are shared and disseminated downstream, in each clearer l using i concrete examples l off conflicts fli operational unit, everywhere the Group is present, in order to take into account the of interests, corruption or fraud. specificities of the subsidiaries’ business activities and the particularities of local The entry into force of the UK Bribery Act on July legislation. The principal entities have implemented an additional Code of Ethics 1st, 2011 was on the agenda of this informational specifically applicable to their activities. session. This British legislation is among the The pperson in charge g of the Compliance p Program g for the Groupp and the specific p t i t t instruments strictest i t i the t in th struggle t l against i t “compliance officers” in each operational unit are responsible for its implementation. At corruption. It creates a new source of criminal the start of each year, the Group’s subsidiaries send Vivendi a report on the actions liability for any legal person doing business in the conducted during the preceding business year. This report is presented by the General UK: failure to adhere to the obligation to prevent Counsel to the Audit Committee, which approves it, to the Supervisory Board, and to the corruption. Management Board; it is then sent to the compliance officers in the subsidiaries. 18 V i v e n d i – C o m m u n i c a t i o n o n P r o g r e s s 2 0 1 1 The struggle against corruption is one of the themes of Maroc Telecom’s Code C of Ethics. This document reaffirms the Group’s commitment to fighting corruption in all its forms (active, passive, direct and New senior executives of Activision Blizzard, indirect). In particular it requires adherence to anti-corruption legislation, as well as enhanced vigilance particularly those who are located in, or have in relations with third parties. Each employee must conduct fair and honest relations with customers responsibility for the Company’s expanding and with suppliers, in strict adherence to the contracts entered into and the applicable laws and business in, Asia, receive in-person training regulations. l ti anti-corruption on anti anti briber matters. corr ption and anti-bribery matters The approach taken by Maroc Telecom was hailed by the Vigeo In early 2011, in connection with the rating agency, which awarded the operator its Top Performer Company’s ongoing expansion into China and RSE 2011 trophy in the areas of business ethics and societal other parts of Asia, the Internal Audit and commitment, noting in particular its assertive policy against Legal Departments funded the staffing of fullcorruption. corruption time resources in Asia to perform internal Nicole Notat (at left), Chairwoman of Vigeo, presents the Top CSR Performer audit functions and conduct ongoing 2011 trophy to Abdeslam Ahizoune, Chairman of the Management Board of monitoring in the anti-corruption area. Maroc Telecom(at right).© Maroc Telecom photo library In 2011, 2011 Activision Blizzard updated its antiActivision Blizzard and Universal Music have a corruption policy in order to take into account In addition to a similar procedure for whistle hotline number available 24/24h, 7/7d on worldthe new provisions of the UK Bribery Act. blowing (as described above), GVT’s employees wide basis that employees can call to report Activision Blizzard plans to distribute the have an ombudsman (a mediator) to receive suspected fraud, bribery or other violations of the updated policy to all employees in 2012. reports on ethical or legal violations, provide Code. Employees may choose to identify guidance and deal with conflicts of interest. themselves or remain anonymous. anonymous In the context of its multi-year training program in the ethics code, SFR gave special emphasis in 2011 to the strict rules inherent GVT’s new Code of Conduct, revised in 2011, reinforced the rules to be followed by all employees in the prohibition of any act whose purpose or regarding their relationships with suppliers. According to the Code of Conduct, suppliers should act in an effect is corruption of an authority or of any appropriate and consistent manner with GVT's values, in compliance with Labor, Tax and Environmental person having direct or indirect decisionLaw (among others); refrain from committing fraud, smuggling, bribing, corrupting; and abide by any other making power in the context of the operator’s principle that GVT considers essential for the relationship. Suppliers proven to be in contravention to these commercial relations. commitments will be subject to termination for breach and all other penalties under the law and the To this end, the entire SFR Business Team contract. Audit processes on suppliers’ compliance will be implemented in 2012. sales force (the operator operator’ss enterprise division), Suppliers were only supposed to be compliant with Brazilian Law in general, covering the main including those involved in public responsibility issues. But from July, 2011 on the Global Compact Clause with its 10 principles have been procurement, was trained. expressly included in new contracts with suppliers and subcontractors. 19 V i v e n d i – C o m m u n i c a t i o n o n P r o g r e s s 2 0 1 1 Appendix 20 V i v e n d i – C o m m u n i c a t i o n o n P r o g r e s s 2 0 1 1 VIVENDI’S VIVENDI S COMPLIANCE PROGRAM Available on Vivendi Vivendi’ss corporate website 21
