Sustainability Report 2011–2012 We work every day to be the FIRST №1 and to leave nobody thirsty on the planet! In 2011, Obolon Corporation once again demonstrated its capability to produce positive financial results regardless of the difficult economic environment. Obolon remains the No. 1 Ukrainian beverage manufacturer, developing its business in accordance with high social standards. The company places special emphasis on caring for the environment, personnel working conditions, and investment into the development of society. For over two decades we have been persistently working to develop an efficient business aimed at steady economic growth and an improvement of the public's standard of living. As an example, the average amount of water used at Obolon per 1 liter of the finished product is 2.7 liters, which is on a par with the best results in the world. At the same time, Obolon sells, processes, and recycles over 95% of its own production waste, which illustrates its real concern for the environment. It is indicative that our corporation is the only company in the country to recycle PET bottles into rim band independently. Our corporation's social programs have a Ukrainian face. They promote Ukrainian book printing, preservation of the spiritual and historical heritage, and the development of the national self-identity; in addition, the company supports a football school for children and young people and the Obolon professional football club. Presenting our latest Sustainability Report, I express my hope for further productive dialogue with all parties interested in Obolon Corporation. Oleksandr Slobodian President of Obolon Corporation OBOLON in figures 24.3 % 119 million UAH share of Obolon Corporation in the Ukrainian beer market in 2011 4,861 net profit in 2011 million UAH 80 % share of Obolon Corporation proceeds from product in Ukrainian beer export sales in 2011 1,032 million UAH total payments (taxes, excise, charges) by Obolon Corporation in 2011 -32 % 500 million UAH reduction of production waste in 2011 investments into the company's own malt plant in Chemerivtsi (Khmelnytskyi Oblast) -12 % reduction of greenhouse gas emissions in 2011 6,500 30,000,000 total number of employees plastic 1-liter bottles equivalent across all corporate units of plastic waste recycled of Obolon Corporation by Obolon per year 6 7 We are an open and public corporation implementing the best practices of corporate management. We are one of the first Ukrainian companies to implement a practice of corporate social responsibility. Since 2007, Obolon is a party to the United Nations Global Compact, diligently following all the 10 Principles of responsible business. In addition to that, some of our programs, typically associated today with corporate social responsibility, have been running for over 15 years. Obolon implemented a recycling program for used plastic bottles as early as in 2002; in 2008 it launched the production of rim band from this recyclable material. This environment-friendly project received a 2011 award for the best environment protection practices from the Center for Development of Corporate Social Responsibility. Obolon was the first company in Ukraine to start an educational campaign for moderation in beer consumption. We were the first to provide information about responsible consumption of the beverage as recommended by the Inter­ national Labor Organization on our products' labels. Another distinguished program was the implementation of an equal opportunities policy for male and female employees. In 2011, Obolon became the first major Ukrainian company to carry out an in-depth gender review of its business, which was used to develop a program for improvement of the quality of working conditions. Obolon has become one of the top-10 socially responsible and transparent companies in Ukraine. Such high appraisal of Obolon's achievements result from our significant contribution to sustainable development through the practical implementation of social responsibility. Serhii Bloshchanevych Chairman of the Supervisory Board of Obolon Corporation Table of Contents 32 Brands of Obolon Corporation 34 Position in the Domestic Market Working Conditions 16 35 46 56 68 Ecology Awards Obolon and Personnel Received Product Export of Production Corporation Development in 2011 Processes Programs Economic Results 22 38 49 58 70 Integrated Environmental Independent of Operations Occupational Management Innovation Auditor Opinion and Impact Health and Safety System Projects by BDO-Audit of the Crisis 24 42 51 60 64 74 Main News Relations Promotion Corporate Culture Investment Table of Conformity of the Corporation with Suppliers of Environmental and Volunteers into Social Projects to GRI v. 3 and its Brands and Consumers Awareness Comprehensive Independent Obolon Social Products Personnel Environmental Auditor Corporation Investments Culture Opinion 10 11 OBOLON Corporation T he history of modern Ukrainian brewing started with Obolon. It was Obolon that became the first Ukrainian company to obtain a privatization certificate from the State Property Fund in 1992. Since then, the company's strategy has been aimed at building a large national corporation, which competes with international beer companies in today's Ukrainian market. Obolon is a unique Ukrainian brand and the leader of the Ukrainian food products market. In the global market, Obolon is an ambassador of the Ukrainian brewing culture, holding stable positions for the last two decades. Obolon is the only company headquartered in the CIS which features in the 40 largest brewing company groups of the world. The company's share in global beer output is 0.5%. In addition to being the 28th beer corporation in the world, it also ranks 34th globally in the production of malt, one of the main ingredients of beer. Apart from its achievements in production, Obolon is also proud of its con­ tribution to the development of Ukrainian society as a whole. Oleksandr Puchok CEO of Obolon Corporation ABOUT OBOLON CORPORATION CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY MAP OF OBOLON CORPORATION Economic impact: EXTERNAL – job creation STAKEHOLDERS – national production – exports – tax payments – responsibility for the product Central government bodies at each stage of its life cycle Mass media Local government bodies Environmental safety: International organizations – environmental investments – optimized use of resources – reduced environmental footprint Non-governmental organizations of the company – waste recycling and reduction Financial and credit institutions Residents of the regions where the facilities are located Working conditions: Consumers – high social standards – decent wages – personnel training and development – standardized occupational health and safety system – employment of handicapped people INTERNAL STAKEHOLDERS Social investments: – educational projects – aid to socially vulnerable parts Shareholders and investors of the population – promotion of the revival of spiritual values Employees and the historical and cultural heritage – promotion of sports Partners 16 17 ABOUT OBOLON CORPORATION 1974 2009 The construction of Kyiv The malting plant of Obolon Corporation brewery begins. in Chemerivtsi, Khmelnytskyi Oblast, begins its operation, becoming the most advanced malting plant in Europe. 1994 Launching its legendary low-alcohol Gin & Tonic, 1986 the company pioneers the low-alcohol beverages 2002 Obolon Brewing market both in Ukraine Obolon launches and Soft Drink Association, and in Eastern Europe. a PET bottle recycling established on the basis facility in Oleksandriia, of Kyiv Brewery No. 3. Kyrovohrad Oblast. 2008 2011 Obolon becomes Obolon changes its form the first company of incorporation, becoming in the food industry a public stock corporation. to receive four management system certificates at once. 1980 1999 2004 Kyiv Brewery No. 3 1992 Zhyvchyk, The company commissions the largest beer bottling line Obolon receives privatization the new soft drink, is officially opened, in Europe, with a capacity certificate No. 1 from is released and the first batch of 110 thousand 0.5 l the State Property Fund into the market. of beer is brewed. bottles per hour. of Ukraine, making history as the first private enterprise History of the independent Ukraine. Today The history of the corporation dates back to the construction of the Kyiv brewery In late April 2011, the meeting of shareholders resolved to convert Obolon 1974, the opening of which was timed to coincide with the 1980 Olympics. from a private stock corporation into a public one. Ukrainian law requires such a transformation for stock corporations with over one hundred shareholders. The brewery was named after the Obolon district of Kyiv in 1986. The word obolon This means that our company shall be more transparent for the public. In addition, dates back to the times of Kyivan Rus, when it used to mean low water meadows. in accordance with the provisions of the law, the shareholders' meeting resolved to perform the mandatory conversion of its shares from certificated Soon after that, the facility initiated the formation of the largest beverage into book-entry form. production corporation in Ukraine. The twenty-year-old strategy, aimed at building Obolon into a powerful national Built according to a Czech project, the brewery produced beer which rapidly company, remains valid for the future. Obolon has always been and will remain gained popularity. After Ukraine gained independence, Obolon Corporation a company in the Ukrainian market wholly owned by Ukrainians. We continue became the first company to export its beverage to the European countries writing the history of Ukrainian business, this time through innovations and to the USA. Beer bearing the Obolon trademark came to be seen around in corporate governance. Obolon proves yet again that a domestic business the world as the traditional Ukrainian beer. headquartered in Kyiv really can operate successfully. 18 19 ABOUT OBOLON CORPORATION Main structural units of Obolon Corporation Production complex in Oleksandriia, Kirovohrad Oblast (production of soft and low-alcohol drinks, recycling of PET bottles, manufacture of rim band) REMOTE STRUCTURAL Malt plant in Chemerivtsi, UNITS Khmelnytskyi Oblast (malt production) Obolon Arena Sports and Recreation Complex, Kyiv PARENT COMPANY (HEADQUARTERS) in Kyiv, also the largest brewery in Europe: PAT Obolon (public stock corporation), PAT Okhtyrka Brewery (public stock corporation), Kyiv (production of beer, Okhtyrka, Sumy Oblast (production of beer, soft drinks, mineral water, soft drinks, potable water, and malt) malt, brewer’s grains, etc.) PAT Sevastopol Beverage Factory (public stock corporation), Sevastopol, Crimea (production of soft drinks and potable water) SHAREHOLDINGS IN OTHER COMPANIES PrAT Bershad Combine (private stock corporation), Bershad, Zibert's Brewery, Fastiv, Vinnytsia Oblast (soft drinks production) Kyiv Oblast (production of beer and soft drinks) PrAT Diatkivtsi (private stock corporation), DP PAT Obolon Krasylivske (public stock Kolomyia, Ivano-Frankivsk Oblast corporation), Krasyliv, Khmelnytskyi (production of snacks) SUBSIDIARIES Oblast (production of potable water, low-alcohol and soft drinks) TOV Obolon Agro (limited liability company), Chemerivtsi, Khmelnytskyi Oblast (agricultural production, barley cultivation, swine and cattle farming) IP Obolon-Rus (foreign company), Belarus (wholesale of beverages). 20 21 ABOUT OBOLON CORPORATION the company's own malt production makes it less vulnerable to fluctuations Economic Results and Impact in raw material of the Crisis prices Despite a drop in beer output, Obolon managed to improve its financial results. The company's profits grew by over 30%. An increase in malt prices had a limited impact on Obolon, which produces its own malt. Despite an 11.5% decrease in the product output down to 87.3 dal in the previous year, the corporation managed to increase its profits by 32% up to 118.5 million UAH. The single largest negative factor for the beer market during the previous year was the increase in raw material prices. Malt production decreased by 8.9%, or 37 thousand tons, which caused the raw material price to increase by over one quarter. However, Obolon was able to mitigate the consequences of this fact due to its own malt production. A large share of the company's profits is represented by the production of soft drinks and mineral waters. In 2011, Obolon was the second largest manufacturer of soft drinks, with an output of about 22 million dal. Although the market for this type of products is shrinking, with an almost 3% decrease down to 142 million dal in 2011, it is growing in terms of money, with a 15% increase in prices. In addition, Obolon Corporation paid over 1032 million UAH in taxes, excise tax, and charges in 2011, which is 4% more than in 2010. Diligent and transparent payment of taxes has always been a key principle in Obolon's financial activities. Financial Results of Obolon Corporation (thousand UAH) 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Income before tax 3,486,318 4,176,304 4,107,760 4,558,949 4,861,378 Net income 2,624,758 3,209,382 3,166,103 3,352,095 3,577,451 Net profit 159,642 -449,396 175,351 89,476 118,501 Assets 2,504,566 3,253,017 3,051,718 3,151,266 3,400,066 Excise paid 309,400 318,209 357,237 538,609 568,115 Total payments 568,968 635,763 659,004 990,524 1,032,454 to the state *-PAT Obolon, Zibert's Brewery (subsidiary), Krasylkivske (subsidiary), Obolon-Agro, Obolon-Rus, Obolon Trade Center (subsidiary) 22 23 ABOUT OBOLON CORPORATION Main News of the Corporation and its Brands January 2011 May 2011 Obolon is one of the most respected employers in Ukraine. The corporation Molson Coors Brewing Company and Obolon Corporation announced came 13th in the general rating (which included foreign companies operating the beginning of their commercial cooperation in Ukraine. One of the first in Ukraine) of the most reputable employers. results produced by the collaboration of the two companies was the release of the Carling beer brand in the Ukrainian market. March 2011 Obolon Corporation is ranked 28th in the world based on beer output in 2010. Many families' favorite still drink, Zhyvchyk Nehazovanyi, appeared in a new non-transparent yellow bottle. The improved packaging makes this healthy June 2011 still drink easier to find in the general range of Zhyvchyk products. Obolon launched Zhyvchyk Vyshnia, a new soft drink with juice content. It continued production of its line of healthy drinks marketed under April 2011 the Zhyvchyk brand name. Obolon Svitle light beer is improved. The Obolon brewers reduced the shelf Obolon Corporation became one of the first Ukrainian companies to follow life of Obolon Svitle. This innovation is designed to make a global change the European practice by developing its gender diversity plan. The project in the beer market. From now on, the consumers can always have fresh was implemented with support from the European Union and the Inter­ beer. Along with an improvement in taste and a shorter shelf life, the design national Labor Office in the framework of the project titled Equality of the Obolon Svitle packaging was also changed. of Women and Men in the World of Labor . Hike, the company's youth brand, changes its image in April. Hike gives a new taste and new label design to those who are looking for new experiences. July 2011 In late April, the meeting of shareholders of Obolon passed a resolution Obolon launched un updated beer brand, Obolon Premium. Obolon's premium to change the company's form of incorporation from a private stock corporation sub-brand was completely reformed, with major changes in design and flavor. into a public stock corporation. Carling, Britain's favorite beer, became the official sponsor of Obolon Foot­ ball Club. The Obolon corporate brand is the highest-value brand in the Ukrainian food products market. According to the experts of Gvardiia (a magazine published by Kontrakty group), the Obolon brand ranked 22nd in the general rating of the highest-value corporate brands in Ukraine, far ahead of all corporate brands of international beer companies. The magazine's analysts estimated the value of the Obolon brand at 2,814.77 million UAH. 24 25 ABOUT OBOLON CORPORATION August 2011 November 2011 Obolon's special present on the occasion of the Independence Day of Ukraine Obolon Corporation launched a new beer brand under the name Yachminnyi kolos [Barley head]. was Slava krainy [Glory of the country], a new special beer. A batch of 20 thou­ The new beverage is marketed as a time-proven classic beer produced by one of Europe's best sand decaliters, 1 for each year of Ukraine's independence, was bottled breweries. Yachminnyi kolos is not pasteurized; its stability and long shelf life are achieved on the 24th of August at the largest Ukrainian brewery in Kyiv. Slava krainy exclusively by modern filtration technologies and production hygiene. is brewed exclusively from three ingredients: water, malt, and hops. Each of the three components originates from Ukraine, which puts an extra emphasis In November 2011, Obolon Corporation made first export shipments of beer to China. The products on the brand's national flavor. marketed under the Obolon trademark will now be offered at the Wal-Mart retail network, hotels, and restaurants in the largest cities of China. The average retail price of 0.5 liter of Obolon beer The largest tasting session of the Ukrainian Obolon beer was held in the capital will amount to 20 Yuans (3.14 USD). city of the European Union, dedicated to the 20th anniversary of Ukrainian independence. In Brussels, a city offering over 1200 types of Belgian beer, the city residents and numerous tourists drank over 200 liters of Obolon beer. December 2011 The Belgian tasting started out in the open, at the world-famous Manneken Pis, the symbol of Brussels. Obolon Corporation launched its new Exclusive premium beer within the Obolon product line. The beer is specially designed for hop taste connoisseurs. The beverage is distinguished by its unique malty taste, which is a successful combination of the flavorful bitterness of hops and the softness September 2011 of the drink. Obolon beverages won 28 awards in various categories of the 14th Beer Fest Obolon Corporation and Kozyrna karta [Trump Card] restaurant network made an announcement international contest held in Kyiv. of their cooperation. Under the agreements made between the companies, the beer brands of Obolon Corporation will be offered in over 70 restaurants in Kyiv and other Ukrainian cities. Obolon presented the first Ukrainian comic book about responsible beer consumption. The corporation's initiative proceeds from a desire to promote Obolon Corporation was announced the winner in the Environment Protection category of a business the culture of beer consumption among young Ukrainians. The comic strip case contest. The business case submitted by Obolon for the contest was the plastic bottle format was chosen as the best way to attract the attention of university recycling project (recycling facility in Oleksandriia, Kirovohrad Oblast). students and avoid preaching and fear mongering. January 2012 October 2011 Obolon updated the design and expanded the product range of packaging for the cocktails Obolon is one of the most open and transparent companies in Ukraine. in its line of low-alcohol drinks. The classic line of Obolon's low-alcohol cocktails will soon celebrate The Company Transparency and Accountability Index, the first Ukrainian its 18th anniversary. After its release by Obolon Corporation, this product line effectively launched study of this kind, placed Obolon on the 3rd place in its rating. Obolon is the only the Ukrainian market of low-alcohol beverages. FMCG company in the top-five of the list. 26 27 OBOLON Products PRODUCTS OF OBOLON CORPORATION Obolon Corporation Obolon is the largest is the largest beverage beverage producer in Ukraine. producer in Ukraine. The main types of products offered by Obolon Corporation include beer, soft drinks, potable and mineral waters, low-alcohol drinks, and beer malt. Other activities include the manufacture of plastic products (from recycled PET bottles) and various agricultural products. The primary selling market is Ukraine, as over 80% of the products are sold on the domestic market. Production of Beverages by Obolon Corporation SD (soft drinks) 18.30% Beer MW (mineral water) 73.30% 6.20% LAD (low-alcohol drinks) 2.20% Industrial goods Malt Brewer's Rim band plastic grains products 30 31 PRODUCTS OF OBOLON CORPORATION Products of Obolon Corporation PREMIUM BEER SPECIAL BEER HOPS BEER 87.9 million dal MEDIUM-PRICE SEGMENT LOW-PRICE SEGMENT MALT LAD 2.6 NEW DRINKS SERIES million dal CLASSIC LOW-ALCOHOL DRINKS SD NOSTALGIA SERIES ALCOHOL 22.0 DRINKS WITH JUICE CONTENT million dal MODERN DRINKS KVASS WATER WATER 7.4 MINERAL AND POTABLE WATER WATER PRODUCED BY REGIONAL COMPANIES million dal 32 33 PRODUCTS OF OBOLON CORPORATION Positions in the Domestic Market Product Export Production of Beverages by Obolon Corporation Paving its own ways to the Western markets, Obolon became the first million dal of the post-Soviet countries to export beer abroad. Every year the corporation reasserts its status as the largest Ukrainian beer exporter and consolidates 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 its positions in the foreign markets. Beer 109.1 113.3 96.6 99.3 87.9 The corporation's Based on the results of 2011, the corporation's share share in beer exports Low-alcohol drinks 4.2 4.1 2.8 2.6 2.6 in beer exports was 80%, with over 21 million dal Soft drinks 20.7 21.7 18.9 22.1 22 of beer produced for foreign consumers. 80% Mineral water 10 8.3 7 9.2 7.4 The company's export strategy is aimed at building longstanding partnerships with international distributors. Our goal is to make regular deliveries and have TOTAL 144 147.4 125.3 133.2 119.9 reliable partners. Obolon Corporation's products are exported to 40 countries on five continents. Malt production Major beer brands The anti-dumping problem in Belarus. of Obolon Corporation In 2010, the most advanced malt plant in Europe, By the end of 2011, the export of beer from Ukraine was decreased by 5.86%, in 2011 worth 500 million UAH, started operating at full amounting to 280.8 million liters, while imports grew by 81.7%. The main cause capacity in Chemerivtsi, Khmelnytskyi Oblast. This for the fall in the total exports was the rapid fall in the export of beer to Belarus, industrial giant is not only the pride of Obolon staff which was 77% lower than in 2010. but also an important factor of economic develop­ ment of an entire region in Podillia, since it uses The reason for this was the discriminatory policy of the Belarusian government raw materials produced by local farmers. 24.3% against Ukrainian brewers. Previously, in 2010, Belarus introduced licensing for the Ukrainian beer, which caused the price to increase by 1.5 times. share in the Ukrainian market However, on May 4, 2012, the Belarusian government suspended the resolution Obolon is the only on licensing of the Ukrainian beer, thus removing all restrictions on beer exports. major brewery fully supported The news about the removal of restrictions came as a pleasant surprise by its own malt production. for the Ukrainian brewers. The removal of the restrictions is important for Obolon as well as for other companies. Given the scale of the company's operations Obolon 11.3% and its contribution to the development of the country, our return to the Belarusian Zibert 6.0% market is important for the Ukrainian economy. Zhyhulivske 4.0% Malt Production Desant 1.0% by Obolon Corporation BeerMix 0.9% Before the restrictions were introduced, Obolon's share in the Belarusian market was 7.2%; it rapidly dropped to 1.7% in 2011. Obolon Corporation thousand tons hike 0.3% has strong reasons to expect that the positions it lost in Belarusian market Okhtyrske 0.2% will be restored. 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Carling 0.2% Brewing Zlata Praha 0.1% 49.2 118.1 158.4 155.8 128.3 malt 34 35 PRODUCTS OF OBOLON CORPORATION Product Export 80 % share of Obolon Corporation in Ukrainian beer export Abkhazia Czech Republic Italy Singapore Three new countries emerged on the map Armenia Denmark Japan Slovakia of Obolon's exports: Switzerland, Iceland, and China. 40 countries of the world Australia Estonia Kazakhstan Spain are already familiar with the unique taste of the Ukrainian beer produced Azerbaijan France Latvia Switzerland by the specialists of Obolon. Belarus Georgia Lithuania e Netherlands Belgium Germany Luxembourg Turkey Canada Greece Moldova Turkmenistan Chile Hong Kong Poland United Kingdom China Iceland Portugal USA Cyprus Israel Russia Vietnam 36 37 PRODUCTS OF OBOLON CORPORATION the integrated management system proves that all technological and business processes are carried out in accordance with internationally Integrated Management System accepted standards and guarantee the safety and high quality Obolon currently uses a management system certified in accordance with the requirements of four international standards: of Obolon products. ISO ISO ISO OHSAS 9001: 22000: 14001: 18001: large image photo 2008 2005 2004 2007 quality food safety environmental occupational management system, management systems, management systems health and safety ISO 9001:2008; ISO 22000:2005; ISO 14001:2004; management systems, OHSAS 18001:2007. In 2012, the DEKRA Certification Kft, a German company, carried out an inter­ national supervisory audit of the integrated management system of Obolon Corporation. The international auditors noted an improvement in the operation of the management system used by Obolon Corporation. The audit was carried out at Obolon brewery in Kyiv, Zibert's Brewery sub­ sidiary in Fastiv (Kyiv Oblast), Krasylivske subsidiary (Khmelnytskyi Oblast), and the corporation's malt plant in Chemerivtsi (Khmelnytskyi Oblast). The audit noted the sanitation conditions of the facilities, quality and safety of raw materials and finished products, compliance with labor safety require­ ments, environmental impact, and organization of the document management process. We strongly believe that the integrated management system certificates are an additional competitive advantage in the Ukrainian food market and a testimony to our commitment to expanding further our export horizons. The majority of WTO member countries require compliance with the provisions of ISO 22000; otherwise, the sale of the products is simply prohibited. These certificates confirm that all technological and business processes within the corporation are carried out in accordance with internationally accepted standards and guarantee the safety and high quality of our products for the consumers. 38 39 PRODUCTS OF OBOLON CORPORATION Four main ingredients are used in beer production Beer Production Process Early in the production process, crushed malt is mixed with water. e mix is them warmed up in a set temperature environment. Water Malt Yeast Hops At this stage, the proteins and starch contained in the malt are released into the solution and transform into sugars, which are later fermented by the yeast. FILTRATION e resulting solution (wort) is filtered. After that, the hops are added, and the mix is boiled for the beer to develop its flavor and pleasant bitterness. en the wort is clarified. e clarified wort is cooled to the brewing temperature, after which the yeast is added. CLARIFICATION WORT MATURING In order for it to mature, the young beer is held After the fermentation, the beer is filtered and poured into for some time in special tanks at a temperature bottles, cans, or kegs. roughout the production process, of -1 to -2 °С. is gives it its unique flavor the beer is never exposed to air, because oxygen is bad and natural saturation with carbon dioxide. for the taste. FILTRATION BOTTLING 300 e best varieties of hops are grown Malt is produced at the company's own malting plant artesian well in Ukraine, the Czech Republic, from barley (or sometimes wheat) grains germinated drilled into Jurassic and Germany. and dried in specific temperature and humidity conditions. meter and Cenomanian aquifers 41 PRODUCTS OF OBOLON CORPORATION In addition to compliance with all legal requirements, the marketing messages Relations of Obolon are responsibly targeted at consumers over 18 years of age. For example, the outdoor advertising (billboards, banners, etc.) does not with Suppliers violate the law, as the materials promoting alcoholic beverages are placed at a significant distance from educational facilities. and Consumers Obolon's TV advertising activities comply with the European Convention Responsible Procurement on Transfrontier Television. This involves certain restrictions: In order to prevent non-conforming and unsafe products from being used, the persons shown in beer commercials must not appear to be minors; Obolon Corporation ensures that its raw materials, equipment, and technical tools, as well as the purchased services, meet existing quality and safety the consumption of beer must not be associated with physical work requirements. or driving; This is achieved by determining and establishing the requirements for suppliers no statements must be made alleging medicinal properties of beer, claiming and using a system to assess and monitor them, which makes it possible the drink to be stimulating or soothing, or depicting it as a solution to personal to establish clearly and document the processes of supplier selection problems; and engagement. abuse of alcohol must not be encouraged, and abstinence from alcohol or moderate consumption must not be depicted in a negative way; and The central facility of Obolon Corporation in Kyiv operates a radiological monitoring laboratory no special emphasis shall be made on the alcohol content in the products. Obolon Corporation ensures that the procured products comply with the requirements specified in the order, particularly the environmental requirements. Obolon is the first company in Ukraine to make steps ICA NS L – CO U M E R E SP RT towards the consumer by implementing the principles VE S TAY ON SIB LY The form and scope of supervision over the supplier and the product or service of a responsible attitude to its products. In particular, procured depends on their impact on further output or finished product. Incoming inspection, along with other means, is used for verification we added a message about the consumption limits of the products procured by Obolon Corporation. on all beer bottle labels. The competitive price and quality being equal, we establish cooperation with suppliers located closest to the consumer (production, processing, Obolon's voluntary initiative to include a message promoting responsible or procurement companies). This makes it possible to reduce the costs consumption in the advertising became another consistent step towards of transportation and intermediary fees, at the same time demonstrating the implementation of a program promoting the culture of beer consumption Obolon's responsible attitude to the regions where its facilities are located. in Ukraine. Product labels and TV advertising reach the largest audience of consumers. Moreover, the POS materials and souvenirs will also bear the Consume responsibly! logo. Information will also be delivered to consumers Responsible Marketing through the specialized website and informative brochures. The responsible marketing of Obolon Corporation involves special attention More details about the Consume responsibly! program to certain audiences (for instance, the so-called high-risk group, i.e. people can be found at www.enjoyobolon.com. under 18) and a continuous dialogue with the consumers (distribution of accurate information about the product and education in the spirit of responsible consumption). 42 43 OBOLON Personnel and Working Conditions Personnel and Working Conditions Taken together, all facilities of Obolon Corporation Personnel provide jobs to about 6,500 people, 3,116 of which and Working Conditions are employed at the Kyiv brewery alone. Job creation and payment of salaries and other employee benefits Employees are the top asset and, at the same time, the pride of Obolon. are some of the most important economic and social aspects of our business. The management of Obolon Corporation believes that motivated and productive work is an important part of human The company policy is aimed at raising the employees’ professionalism, improving their working conditions and workflow safety, and guaranteeing their social security. In pursuit of these goals, Obolon has implemented an occupational 57 % development, and the standards of living become better through health and safety management system certified under OHSAS 18001:2007. of all employees complete and secure employment. The lack of jobs is the primary It is the consistent performance of its commitments to employees that work at Obolon's has made Obolon a highly reputable employer. The company has a collective central brewery reason for social problems, especially in Ukraine, with its under­ bargaining agreement in place, which is a sign of employee security. In addition, in Kyiv developed social security system. Labor practices mainly impact the company's corporate culture is designed to develop every specialist. society's sense of justice, and socially responsible labor practices are important for social fairness, stability, and peace. As an employer, Obolon promotes one of the most widely accepted objectives of society: the improvement of the standard of living through full and secure employment and proper work. Obolon Corporation provides its employees with appropriate working and living conditions. They are provided with annual professional development training, medical examinations, first aid, preventive medical care, and development of the social sphere. Distribution of Employees among Companies Obolon Corporation is one of the top employers in Ukraine. The average wage in the company is above the national average, and increased 6% in 2011 Central brewery Kyiv 3,116 employees as compared to 2010. All wages and benefits are paid through official channels, which means that the company fully pays all taxes and mandatory payments Zibert's Brewery Fastiv 527 employees to the pension fund and other funds. The social policy of Obolon in regard to its staff members is aimed at providing Krasylivske Krasyliv 721 employees the necessary level of performance, reducing labor turnover and improving the social security of employees. Each employee of Obolon Corporation Malt plant Chemerivtsi 375 employees can have additional professional training and improve his or her skills within the personnel development and training program. Production complex Oleksandriia 373 persons The social package, which is also available to retired employees, includes Brewery Okhtyrka 270 employees one-time benefit for health improvement, trips for children, cash bonuses on holidays, financial aid at childbirth, retirement, marriage, or in emergencies. Bershad Combine Bershad 102 persons The company has a first aid post with modern equipment and a gym. Clearly as required by law, 4% of all employees at Obolon are handicapped Beverage factory Sevastopol 180 employees people. Diatkivtsi Kolomyia 96 employees Obolon-Agro Chemerivtsi 595 employees 46 47 Personnel and Working Conditions Obolon’s practices All employees with limited abilities are integrated into the company’s life in employment of people and are an indispensable part of the team. First, they have a status equal to that of other employees and are also covered by the collective bargaining with special needs agreement, which means they have all the benefits such as facilities for health In line with current Ukrainian law and principles of social responsibility, Obolon improvement, financial aid, bonuses, etc. Second, all such employees are involved also creates proper working conditions for people with special needs. in Obolon’s corporate events, celebrations etc. Furthermore, and quite importantly for them, the employees receive free medical examination and can have any necessary medical tests done at Obolon Clinic No. 1. As required by law, about 4% of all employees at Obolon are people who are handicapped to various Occupational Health and Safety degrees. At the Kyiv-based facility, this amounts Occupational health and safety is becoming increasingly important for companies. to 161 persons. All employees would like their working conditions to be comfortable and safe. Obolon applies a modern approach to occupational safety by utilizing the OHSAS Obolon provides its assistance to people with special needs not only through 18001:2007 certified occupational health and safety management system as well compassion about the difficulties they face but also, and more importantly, by creating conditions for their social integration and professional development. 4% as an effective monitoring system. Prioritizing the life and health of the employees of the corporation is one Most people with special needs work in the Marketing Department as agents; of the company's of the key elements in Obolon's policy. some are also engaged in production. The most common diseases in this group employees of employees include diabetes, heart disease, cancer, eye disease, and diseases are people of the musculoskeletal system. The agents have a flexible work schedule which handicapped depends on the amount of work. Their responsibilities include supporting events, to various creating and updating client databases, etc. To perform these duties, the agents degrees. In 2011, Obolon invested over 5.2 million UAH are trained to use special software or acquire client communication skills. into occupational health and safety. Obolon puts a lot of effort into supporting people with special needs by creating special conditions for their work. Senior agents have separate offices. Since most Throughout 2008—2010, the investments made by the corporation into of them have diabetes, it is crucial for them to monitor their blood sugar level occupational health and safety amounted to 11.7 million UAH. Investments continuously and have several meals a day. They are provided with a specially in this area have become larger every year; in 2011, for instance, this amount equipped medical and preventive care room, where they can eat, administer increased by 49% to 5.2 million UAH. A part of this amount was used insulin, take their medicine, have their blood pressure and blood sugar level for the training of personnel in safe techniques of hazardous works and for appraisal measured, or simply have some rest. All of our employees get a full lunch of working conditions at workstations. The majority of the funds was invested in the cafeteria. into preventative measures to reduce the risks to a level acceptable in the area of professional safety and occupational health. In addition, Obolon promotes active participation of its employees in the process of maintaining occupational safety. April 2012, for example, was declared an occupational safety month, the results of which were reviewed on April 28, the World Day for Safety and Health at Work. One of the events held during this month was a contest to determine the best units and encourage the others to comply with the occupational health and safety regulations. Comprehensive inspections and reviews determined the best departments and managers in terms of occupational safety organization. 48 49 Personnel and Working Conditions Obolon Promotes Equal Opportunities The project was implemented with support from the European Union and the Inter­ national Labor Office as part of the project titled Equality of Women and Men for Men and Women in the World of Labor . Obolon's gender equality plan is a specific plan of action aimed at providing equal opportunities for the employees of both genders, jointly Traditionally, it has been the case that the food industry employs a large number developed by management and workforce representatives, based on an in-depth of women. Obolon is no exception, with over 28% female employees. The company gender review of the company, with clear result indicators and timelines. Based understands that supporting women’s rights to rest and respecting their on the results received, the team that developed the gender plan made a list family values will make them even more motivated to work. Better motivation of the most urgent issues and areas requiring special attention. results in better performance, which is a benefit for the company. Moreover, a sound gender policy in the company improves the atmosphere in its team. Corporate Culture and Volunteers The fundamental rights of women and men have always been a part of the collec­ 28 % tive bargaining agreement in place at Obolon since the company started its A unique corporate culture based on the highest human and patriotic values operations; the document established equal rights for both female and male has evolved at Obolon Corporation throughout the years of its existence. employees from the very outset. Further on, the opportunities and working conditions at the company have only been changing for the better. For instance, Obolon encourages and supports the participation of its employees in voluntary of Obolon they include parental leave, family vacation, etc. activities in various social programs for public benefit. Corporate volunteering employees is a part of the corporate charity program, under which the company provides Gender equality is maintained even in terms of equal availability of parental are female resources (including volunteers) to support socially important areas, promoting leave to men and women. Although it is the women who traditionally take public benefit and creating a positive public opinion about the company. maternity leave in Ukraine, we have had cases when our male employees have taken responsibility of child care. Most importantly, the company guarantees a job for anyone returning from such leave, which is a major concern in our time. One of the first examples of Obolon's corporate The new collective bargaining agreement, in force since early 2010, established volunteerism is the donor initiative, the position of an ombudsman for gender matters. which has been in place for ten years. Obolon ranked first among the best employers implementing fair gender policies at the national contest titled Equal Opportunities: The Best Employer. The contest One component of Obolon's internal corporate communications is the published was held to single out Ukrainian companies with the best policy promoting Obolon Bulletin; its primary purpose is to promote the corporate culture and improve equality of women and men. The contest was held under the auspices and with the knowledge of the employees. the active support of the Ministry of Labor and Social Policies of Ukraine, the project of the EU and International Labor Organization called Equality of Women and Men Furthermore, the employees go to watch football matches with Obolon Football in the World of Labor , and the European Business Association. Club in the new Obolon Arena stadium. One of the modern elements of corporate culture development is the adoption Obolon Corporation became one of the first Ukrainian of green office principles. companies to follow the European practice by developing its own gender equality plan. In 2010, all employees of the Corporation celebrated the 30th anniversary of the Kyiv-based Obolon brewery. 50 51 OBOLON Comprehensive Environmental Culture COMPREHENSIVE ENVIRONMENTAL CULTURE Comprehensive Matrix of Environmental Activity Environmental Culture Obolon steadily follows the principles of harmonious coexistence, cooperation, Ecology Innovative Promotion and continuous dialogue with society. We realize our responsibility for the environ­ of Production Environmental of Environmental ment. This is why Obolon Corporation promotes a comprehensive environmental Processes Projects Awareness culture, which is supported by the ISO 14001 standard for environmental manage­ ment systems implemented in the company. This has resulted in a consistent reduction of our environmental footprint (waste production, energy and water water production team consumption, and atmospheric emissions). resources waste Principles of environmental management followed by Obolon Corporation: continuous control and analysis of the environmental impact of the production; plastic green atmosphere bottles office improvement of technologies in terms of environment protection; minimization of harmful emissions by using state-of-the-art equipment; energy alternative outside raising the staff’s environmental awareness by providing reference information, resources energy events instructions, and learning materials; continuous radiation control at all levels of the production process. Environmental Statistics of Obolon Corporation Obolon Corporation spent 86 million UAH on environment protection in five years, 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 including 11.6 million UAH in 2011. Natural gas consumption, thousand cubic meters 18,192 23,160 24,829 26,260 23,377 Power consumption, 78,162 83,255 64,558 68,759 63,794 thousand kWh Water consumption (from the company's water wells), 4,608 4,525 3,614 3,537 3,313 thousand cubic meters Specific generation of waste (per unit of product), 1.25 0.95 0.95 0.44 0.35 tons per thousand decaliters Greenhouse gas emissions, 35,167 46,940 47,422 54,188 47,921 tons 54 55 COMPREHENSIVE ENVIRONMENTAL CULTURE Ecology of Production Processes Energy Resources With the growth of energy prices and the economic recession in the last two years, the management of energy consumption has gained special Water resources importance. Obolon Corporation continues to improve its production Like life on Earth, our corporation's production is based on water, which processes in terms of energy conservation, which, in addition to the econo­ is the reason for our special, frugal attitude to every drop. Such an attitude mic benefit, presents a significant environmental advantage. is manifested in recycling and reusing water in order to achieve maximum eco­ nomy of water resources in addition to continuous technological improvement. For example, the wort-boiling units are equipped with installations that capture the heat produced when the wort begins to boil. The recuperated heat is used to maintain the temperature required for the wort boiling The average water consumption by Obolon process. This reduces the environmental impact and heat consumption. for production of 1 liter of its product is around 2.7 liters. In addition to the above examples of energy saving equipment, Obolon conti­ nues to look for ways to reduce the consumption of energy even further. On average, the industry spends 5 liters of water per 1 liter of the finished product worldwide. In the process of brewing, which is more water-intensive, Environmental Impact Obolon uses an average of 3.5 liters of water to produce one liter of beer. Obolon sells, recycles, and reuses over 95% of its own waste, a result that makes us especially proud and which demonstrates the company's Atmosphere responsible attitude to the environmental problems in Ukraine. Atmospheric emissions are another relevant issue, as the Corporation’s main facility is based in the densely populated city of Kyiv. The corporation proves to be a responsible entity in this matter as well. Our main air pollutants are the heat Obolon sells, recycles and reuses over 95% station, the grain elevator, and motor vehicles. of its own waste. The heat station producing steam for the brewing process is a state-of-the-art gaspowered installation. Thus the emissions it produces are minimal and signi­ ficantly lower than the regulatory limits. And although the heat station has Another important indicator of effectiveness of the corporation's environ­ already been put into operation, the construction is still in progress, pending mental policy is the specific production of waste. This figure continues an increase in capacity. The engineers continue to introduce innovations to decrease, which proves the environmental policy of Obolon Corporation to recuperate and reuse the heat. continues to be successful. The grain elevator has the most effective dust cleaning systems, which reduce grain dust emissions by 40%. The car fleet also reduces emissions into the atmosphere both through logistics and change of equipment. For example, the gas-powered and other fuel-powered forklifts are gradually being replaced with electric ones. 56 57 COMPREHENSIVE ENVIRONMENTAL CULTURE Innovative Environmental Projects PET Bottle Collection and Recycling Obolon Corporation makes sizeable investments into environmental projects, Realizing its responsibility to the society, Obolon has been running its own which, apart from the environmental benefits, are useful for the company's PET bottle recycling facility since 2002, which is a unique phenomenon core activities. We are aware of the environmental problems of Ukraine, which for the Ukrainian market. In 2003, the facility in Oleksandriia installed is why Obolon responsibly treats both the production culture and its product equipment for the recycling of used PET bottles. This activity started out at all stages of its life cycle. We understand that the environmental problems as merely crushing the bottles and exporting the so-called flake for further of Ukraine are not limited to air pollution, but include the issue of household processing abroad. However, in 2008 the company decided to turn the flake waste. This is why we are carefully building a system for collection and recycling into a final product independently. For this purpose the company purchased of our products' packaging, thus minimizing the environmental footprint. modern German equipment, processing 125 kg of 100% recycled flakes per hour to produce rim band. This is the first rim band production in Ukraine, recycling over 800 tons of PET packaging per year. Brewer's Grain Recycling Obolon became the first Ukrainian company to recycle brewer's grains (brewing waste). In a year, Obolon Corporation recycles This innovative technology makes it possible to convert the production waste an equivalent of 30 million plastic bottles. into an environmentally safe product used in agriculture as a nutritious fodder for cattle. A dry granule installation has been in operation at the Kyiv-based facility since April 2008. It is capable of processing up to 700 tons of raw Moreover, in recent years Obolon has been working to implement an environ­ grain per day without any harmful impact on the environment. As a result, ment-friendly project for PET bottle collection in Kyiv, which involves the wet grain waste has been reduced by 91% in five years, the sanitary the installation of specialized containers. condition of the territory has improved, and the amount of vehicle exhaust gases has decreased due to the reduction in wet grain transportation. In 2011, Obolon Corporation won a business case contest in the Environ­ ment Protection nomination, presenting its plastic bottle recycling project (recycling facility in Oleksandriia, Kirovohrad Oblast). Alternative energy: Fuel Production from Plastic Waste Reduction in wet grain waste by 91% in five years In order to promote development in this area, the corporation established Obolon-Oil, an energy company, which built an experimental facility for production of fuel from polymer waste in Horodok, Khmelnytskyi Oblast. This facility is capable of recycling and disposing of both industrial and house­ hold polymer waste. In the future, we plan to invest in increasing the production of alternative energy on an industrial scale to supply our own needs for fuel and recycling of harmful waste. For this purpose we are looking for suppliers of this type Livestock of raw material. Production Brewer's grains Processing 700 tons fodder per day 58 59 COMPREHENSIVE ENVIRONMENTAL CULTURE Promotion of Environmental Awareness Over the past two years, Obolon has become more active in raising the environ­ mental awareness of its personnel and the population in general. For several years already, the Corporation’s facilities have been implementing energy-saving technologies not only in production, but also in buildings and offices. A caring attitude to the environment is a key component of our corporate culture. Environmental knowledge is a mandatory qualification for all executives whose work is related to the use of natural resources and has an impact on the environment. All employees have been informed of the Green Office principles within the internal communications program and put them into practice. The corporation follows a Green Office philosophy. Waste Power-saving No smoking Indoor plants sorting lamps allowed in office spaces on the premises 60 61 OBOLON Social Investments SOCIAL INVESTMENTS A special place in the Corporation’s system of social investments belongs SOCIAL INVESTMENTS to Obolon, the professional football club. In addition, the company has used its funds to build the modern Obolon Arena stadium for the club in the Obolon Obolon has been investing in social projects for over one District of Kyiv. This football complex will be able to host high-profile games. and a half decades. This is a versatile area of the company's activities, including educational projects, aid to socially In 2011, Obolon Corporation continued its cooperation with the Supreme League as the general sponsor of the Ukrainian Football Championship. vulnerable sectors of the population, promotion of the revival of spiritual, historical, and cultural values, and development of sports. Obolon forms an annual social budget and provides Educational Projects a part of its products for projects of social importance. Since 2006, Obolon has supported the Petro Yatsyk International Contest of the Ukrainian Language held by the League of Ukrainian Sponsors. Every Promotion of the Revival of Spiritual year the company offers prizes for the contest winners--children from all over Ukraine and the diaspora. Values and the Historical and Cultural Sponsorship and support Heritage Obolon provides support to Kyiv Arts School No. 5 for artistically gifted of gifted children children. Ukrainian book publishing development program. In the last 15 years, Obolon has supported the publishing of over two hundred textbooks, guides, collections, Renovation catalogues, reference books, fiction, science, history, and children's literature. of historical Aid to Socially Vulnerable Parts of the Special emphasis is placed on supporting books promoting national awareness, and architectural Ukrainian textbooks, and historical literature. Population landmarks. The Corporation maintains partnership relations with NGOs caring for orphaned Support of the historical and architectural heritage. Obolon is involved children, the disabled and people with special needs, and veterans. in the renovation of historical and architectural monuments, such as the Temple of the Protecting Veil of the Mother of God in Mariupol, the Church of Volodymyr It also provides aid to individuals, families with many children, and three the Great in Vyshhorod, Saint George Monastery on Cossack Graves in Pliasheva family-type orphanages. This is a special targeted type of aid provided directly (Rivne Oblast), Saint Panteleimon Church in Lubny (Poltava Oblast), the Church to families. This form of cooperation is the most effective, and, most importantly, Targeted aid of Saint Martyr Liudmyla in Horodok, and others. The company also helps can be sustained in the long term. Even during the economic crisis, Obolon provided directly cultural institutions, such as the National Museum of Taras Shevchenko in Kyiv, did not cease to fund the family-type orphanages. to families the Museum of Hetmans, the National Museum of Ukrainian Folk Decorative Arts, and the Museum of Ivan Honchar. Development of Ukrainian Sports We are very proud that Obolon Corporation promotes children’s football in Zmina Olympic Reserve Sports School for Children and Young People, which trains children aged 7 to 18. The company also sponsors international sport Supporting competitions, including the International Football Tournament for Children the development and Young People, which has already been held 15 times at Kyiv School No. 170 of children's and Zmina Sports School. football 64 65 SOCIAL INVESTMENTS List of Major The Museum of Hetmans Partner Organizations The National Museum of Ukrainian Folk Regularly Receiving Decorative Arts Ukraine for Children National Foundation Dniprovskyi District Society of the People In-Kind and Financial Aid The Museum of Ivan Honchar for Social Protection of Mothers and Children with Musculoskeletal Disabilities from Obolon: EDUCATION AND SPORTS: Children are Our Future Charity Cerebral, Children’s NGO, Darnytsia District HISTORY, CULTURE, AND ARTS: of Kyiv Kyiv City Center of Family, Children, and Youth Saint Mary’s International Charitable Foundation League of Ukrainian Sponsors, International Social Services Kyiv Center of Vocational Guidance for Children Charity Foundation ORGANIZATIONS OF THE DISABLED: with Disabilities The Office for Family and Youth of Obolon Ivan Franko National Academic Drama Theater District State Administration Soniachnyi Promin [Sunray] Society of Disabled Horytsvit NGO (Novobilychi Psychoneurological Mothers, Obolon District of Kyiv Nursing School for Men) Literaturna Ukraina, a newspaper of Ukrainian Zmina Sports School for Children and Young writers People Dimfo Art Association for Children and Young VETERANS: People with Limited Abilities The Church of Saint Mykola (Prytyska) in Kyiv Obolon-Grand Master Chess Club The All-Ukrainian Association of World War II Dytynstvo [Childhood] Society for Rehabilitation Veterans The Temple of the Protecting Veil of the Mother The Foundation for Development of Rugby of Disabled Children, Kyiv of God in Mariupol for Children and Young People in Ukraine Kyiv City Charitable Foundation for Social Dity Chornobyla [Children of Chornobyl] Protection of Prisoners and Victims The Church of Volodymyr the Great in Vyshhorod Kyiv School No. 170 Obolon District Organization of Nazi Persecution Saint George Monastery on Cossack Graves Children’s School of Arts No. 5 in Kyiv The Foundation of the Chornobyl Disabled Victims, The Organization of the Disabled of War in Pliasheva (Rivne Oblast) Obolon District of Kyiv and Military, Obolon District in Kyiv Sports and Children International Charity Saint Panteleimon Church in Lubny Foundation KASITsEP Kyiv Association of the Disabled The Society of Afghan War Veterans, (Poltava Oblast) with Cerebral Palsy Obolon District in Kyiv ‘In Children’s Palms’ NGO The Church of Saint Martyr Liudmyla in Horodok Vidrodzhennia [Renaissance] Rehabilitation Kyiv Hospital for the Disabled WW2 Veterans (Khmelnytskyi Oblast) Leadership, Youth, Innovation All-Ukrainian Center for People With Spinal Disability, an NGO Youth NGO The Church of the Protecting Veil of the Mother Yednist [Unity] Podillia District Center of God in Teofipol (Khmelnytskyi Oblast) Student Fraternity of the National University of the Disabled of the Kyiv-Mohyla Academy The Church of Saint Nicholas in Fastiv Kyiv Organization of the Ukrainian Society (Kyiv Oblast) Shyshaky Oblast Gymnasium-Type Boarding of the Blind School for Gifted Children (Poltava Oblast) The Church of Assumption of the Virgin Mary Kyiv Organization of the Ukrainian Society in Okhtyrka (Sumy Oblast) The placement center for homeless minors unof the Deaf der the Kyiv Administration of the Ministry The Ukrainian Institute of National Memory of Internal Affairs The Association of NGOs for the Disabled in Kyiv The National Museum of Taras Shevchenko in Kyiv Mostysche Specialized Grade I-II Boarding School 66 67 Awards Received in 2011 Obolon Soborne Gold Medal, Certificate Award winning product, Contest Award brand, or entity Zlata Praha Gold Medal, Certificate Top 100 Products Zhyvchyk with Apple Juice soft drink Award winner certificate Zibert Svitle, Zibert Bavarske, of Ukraine Gold Medal, Certificate Zibert Bile Top 100 Products Obolon Svitle light beer Award winner certificate Okhtyrske Kozatske Gold Medal, Certificate of Ukraine Zhyvchyk Apple Gold Medal, Certificate Best Corporate Media Obolon. Beer Connoisseurs Club 3rd place in Ukraine 2011 (special issue of Obolon Bulletin) Obolon Orange Gold Medal, Certificate Obolon Trademark Amber Star, Certificate (for the largest beer output) Obolonska Gold Medal, Certificate Beer Fest 2011 Zhyvchyk Trademark (for the largest Prozora Gold Medal, Certificate Amber Star, Certificate output of the beverage) Kvass Gold Medal, Certificate Prozora Trademark (for the best Honor Cup, Certificate product appearance design) Zhyhulivske Silver Medal, Certificate Obolon Premium Grand Prize, Certificate Obolon Bezalkoholne [non-alcoholic] Silver Medal, Certificate Obolon Zhyve Grand Prize, Certificate Carling Silver Medal, Certificate Beer Fest 2011 Obolon Oksamytove Grand Prize, Certificate Okhtyrske Svitle Silver Medal, Certificate BeerMix Cherry Grand Prize, Certificate Obolon Pshenychne Silver Medal, Certificate Zhyvchyk Cherry Grand Prize, Certificate Acknowledgement for an important contribution Disabled Sports Obolon Mitsne Gold Medal, Certificate Obolon Corporation to the development Support Fund of disabled winter sports in Ukraine BeerMix Raspberry, Gold Medal, Certificate BeerMix Grapefruit The Most Reputable Employers of 2010 Obolon Svitle Gold Medal, Certificate Obolon Certificate (5th place) according to the Reputation Institute hike premium Gold Medal, Certificate 68 69 Independent Assurance Report on the 2011–2012 Sustainability Report of Obolon Group External interested parties Central government bodies Mass media To the Readers of the 2011/2012 Sustainability Report Local government bodies of Obolon Corporation International organizations Non-governmental We have been engaged by the Executive Board of Obolon Group ( OBOLON ) organizations to provide assurance regarding the 2011/2012 Sustainability Report of OBOLON ( the Report ). The company management is responsible for the Report, Financial and credit which responsibility includes determining material aspects of sustainable organizations development. Our responsibility is to provide an assurance report pertaining Residents of the regions to the information in the Report. where the facilities are located Consumers Which areas were reviewed in order to provide assurance regarding the Report? BDO Our engagement was designed to provide the readers of the Report with Internal interested limited assurance on whether the information in the Report is, in all material parties respects, fairly stated in accordance with the reporting criteria explained below. The procedures performed to obtain a limited level of assurance were aimed at determining the reliability of the information and are less extensive Shareholders and investors than those for a reasonable level of assurance. Employees Partners Which reporting criteria were applied by OBOLON? OBOLON uses its own sustainability reporting criteria developed based on the Sustainability Reporting Guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative ( GRI ) as indicated in the Table of Conformity to GRI ( the Table ) on page 74 of the Report. It is important to view the presented performance data in the context of this explanatory information. We believe that these criteria are suitable in view of the purpose of our assurance engagement. 70 71 Which assurance standards did we use? Assessment of the reasonableness of the assumptions underlying the for­ ward-looking statements set out in the Report. We conducted our engagement in accordance with the International Standard for Assurance Engagements (ISAE) 3000 and an application level of B An evaluation of whether the information presented in the Report is in line according to the GRI rating. The BDO sustainability expert team possesses with our overall knowledge of, and experience with, sustainability at OBOLON. the specific knowledge, skills and professional competencies needed to understand the information presented in the Report, to identify and collect the information required to confirm the reliability of the information and to ensure What conclusion did we make? that the ethical aspects, including the independence requirements, were met. Based on the procedures we performed, nothing came to our attention to indicate that the information collected for the year ending on July 1, Which procedures did we use 2012, is not fairly presented, in all material respects, in accordance with the reporting manual of OBOLON. This report, including our conclusions, to produce our conclusions? has been prepared solely for the directors of OBOLON as a body in accordance Our work was based on the statements made in the Report, including with the agreement between us, to assist the directors in reporting OBOLON's the statements regarding the relevant information. In order to make our sustainability performance and activities. conclusions, we reviewed the integrity of the internal processes, control systems, and evidence provided to BDO. We performed the following We permit this report to be disclosed in the Sustainability Report for the year procedures: ended July 1, 2012, to enable the Directors to show they have addressed their governance responsibilities by obtaining an independent assurance report A review of materiality and interaction with the stakeholders in respect in connection with the selected information. Based on the available data of sustainability related to OBOLON in order to obtain information and the information presented in the Report, we have come to the conclusion on the relevant matters throughout the reporting period. that the Report conforms to the GRI level of B . A review of systems, processes, and internal control of OBOLON in order Kyiv, July 10, 2012 to collect and summarize the quantitative and qualitative information contained in the report on the corporate level, including an analytic review of aggregated data and a risk-based review of the samples of data collected at various sites. An in-depth analysis and review of the conformity of the Report on OBOLON's performance to the criteria of the Global Reporting Initiative. BDO LLC Conformity of the Report to the Principles of the UN Global Compact. Henning Drager, Sustainability Partner A review of the statements and materials of the Report of OBOLON by collecting evidence to determine the accuracy and appropriateness of each identified claim or statement. This includes interviews with the corporate personnel and additional work to clarify the discrepancies in order to provide assurance regarding the accuracy of the presented statements. A review of mass media and Internet information that appeared during the reporting period and which concerns material aspects of OBOLON's sustainability. Collection and review of internal and external documents in order to determine whether there is sufficient evidence to confirm the qualitative information. 72 73 GRI Page UNGC GRI Page UNGC GRI Page UNGC Table of Conformity STRATEGY AND ANALYSIS 4.13 4.14 * EN30 (add.) 8, 9 to GRI 1.1 1.2 4.15 * LABOR PRACTICES 4.16 LA1 This Social Report of Obolon corporation was prepared in compliance with ORGANIZATIONAL PROFILE 4.17 LA2 6 the international standards of non-financial reporting for sustainable develop­ LA3 (add.) 2.1 ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE ment, GRI v3, and meets Grade B criteria. A complete expanded table of con­ LA4 * 1, 3 2.2 INDICATORS formity of this Social Report to GRI standards can be found on our official LA5 * 3 2.3 EC1 website at: http://obolon.ua/ukr/corporate-responsibility/social-reporting/ LA6 (add.) 2.4 EC3 LA7 2.5 EC4 LA8 2.6 EC5 (add.) 1 LA9 (add.) * 2.7 EC6 LA10 2.8 EC7 LA11 (add.) 2.9 EC8 LA12 (add.) 2.10 EC9 (add.) LA13 1, 6 LA14 1, 6 REPORT PARAMETERS ENVIRONMENTAL SAFETY HUMAN RIGHTS 3.1 EN1 8 3.2 EN2 8, 9 HR1 EN3 8 HR3 (add.) 3.3 EN4 8 HR4 1, 2, 6 3.4 EN5 (add.) HR5 * 1, 2 3.5 HR6 * 1, 2, 5 EN6 (add.) 3.6 1, 2, EN7 (add.) HR7 * 3.7 3, 4 EN8 8 3.8 HR8 (add.) EN9 (add.) 8 3.9 HR9 (add.) EN10 (add.) 8, 9 3.10 EN11 8 SOCIETY 3.11 EN12 8 SO2 3.12 EN13 (add.) 8 SO3 10 EN14 (add.) 8 SO4 10 INTERACTION EN15 (add.) 8 SO7 (add.) 10 WITH STAKEHOLDERS EN16 8 4.1 EN17 8 PRODUCT AND CONSUMERS 4.2 * EN18 8, 9 PR1 1 4.3 * EN19 8 PR2 (add.) 1 4.4 * EN20 8 PR3 EN21 8 PR4 (add.) 4.5 EN22 8 PR5 (add.) 4.6 EN23 8 PR6 4.7 EN24 (add.) 8 PR7 (add.) 4.8 EN25 (add.) 8 PR8 (add.) 4.9 EN26 8, 9 PR9 4.10 EN27 8, 9 4.11 EN28 8 4.12 EN29 (add.) 8 * explained on the corporate website at www.obolon.ua Indicators not covered in the Social Report are not shown in the table. 74 75 This Sustainability Report of Obolon was printed on environment-friendly paper certified under the FSC (Forest Stewardship Council) international standard. This certification guarantees that the paper was produced in accordance with the principles of responsible forestry practices without harm to the environment and communities. Obolon Public Stock Corporation 3 Bohatyrska St., Kyiv 04655 Ukraine Text and photo © Obolon Public Stock Corporation Designed by: Bambuk Design Studio www.bambus.com.ua 76 We We work workevery everyday day to to be be the theFIRST FIRST №1 and toleave and to leave nobody nobody thirsty on the planet! thirsty on the planet!
