Columbit South Africa Communication of Progress To the United Nations Global Compact 2011 / 2012 Columbit (Pty) Ltd joined the Global Compact in December 2008; the 10 guiding principles of the compact are embedded at the very core of our business and we felt that becoming a member, is in line with our commitment to ethically and environmentally responsible business practises. I have included a summary of the documentation in our ISO system which supports the Global Compact principles. It may be especially interesting for anyone reading this document to pay particular interest to our carbon reduction initiative; re-planting an endemic shrub which acts as a keystone species and has amazing carbon capture abilities while thriving in semi-arid regions. The project is in association with Columbit (Pty) Ltd., the South African Government department of Environmental Affairs (DEA) and Cape Nature; our programme is the first of its kind in South Africa and is something we are very proud to be a part of. 1. Human Rights. Principle 1: Business should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights and Principle 2: Business should make sure that their own operations are not complicit in human rights abuses. Policy documentation references re: Human Rights. HR.NAT.PO.002 – Code of Conduct HR.NAT.PO.004 – Human Rights Columbit upholds the human rights of its employees, and treats them with dignity and respect as understood by the international community. Recognized standards such as the Universal Declaration of Human Rights (UDHR), Social Accountability International (SAI), the Ethical Trading Initiative (ETI) and the Global Reporting Indicators (GRI) are to be used as references in evaluating Columbit’s commitment to human rights. These standards embody the following Columbit endorsed labour standards that it addresses with its major Suppliers: 1) Freely Chosen Employment – an insert form our code of Conduct Forced, bonded or indentured labour or involuntary prison labour is not to be used. All work will be voluntary, and workers should be free to leave upon reasonable notice. Workers shall not be required to hand over government-issued identification, passports or work permits as a condition of employment, except to the extent that the company needs to take brief possession of such documents in order to comply with applicable law including but not limited to immigration law. 2) Child Labour – an insert form our code of Conduct Child labour is not to be used in any stage of manufacturing. The term child refers to any person employed under the age of 18, or under the age for completing compulsory education, or under the minimum age for employment in the country, whichever is greatest. The use of legitimate workplace apprenticeship programs, which comply with all applicable laws and regulations, is supported. 3) Discrimination – an insert form our code of Conduct Columbit is committed to a workforce free of harassment and unlawful discrimination and does not tolerate unlawful discrimination based on race, colour, age, gender, gender identity, sexual orientation, ethnicity, disability, religion, political affiliation, union membership or marital status in hiring and employment practices such as promotions, rewards, and access to training. In addition, workers or potential workers are not to be subjected to medical/pregnancy tests for the purposes of unlawfully discriminating against such an individual. 4) Harsh or Inhumane Treatment – an insert form our code of Conduct There is to be no harsh or inhumane treatment, including but not limited to any sexual harassment, sexual abuse, corporal punishment, mental or physical coercion or verbal abuse of workers; nor is there to be the threat of any such treatment. 5) Minimum Wages – an insert form our code of Conduct Compensation paid to workers shall comply with all applicable wage laws, including those relating to minimum wages, overtime hours and legally mandated benefits. Any disciplinary wage deductions are to conform to local law. The basis on which workers are being paid is to be clearly conveyed to them in a timely manner. 6) Working Hours for Manufacturing – an insert form our code of Conduct Studies of good manufacturing practices clearly link worker strain to reduced productivity, decreased turnover and increased injury and illness. Work weeks are not to exceed the maximum set by local law. Further, a work week should not be more than 55 hours per week, including overtime, except in emergency or unusual situations. Workers should be allowed at least one day off per seven-day week. 7) Freedom of Association – an insert form our code of Conduct Open communication and direct engagement between workers and management are the most effective ways to resolve workplace issues. Columbit respects the rights of workers to associate freely and seek representation in accordance with local laws. Workers shall be able to communicate openly with management regarding working conditions without fear of reprisal, intimidation or harassment. Forms in support of Human Rights: HR.NAT.FM.001 – Overtime Hours Worked HR.NAT.FM.002 – Grievance Form HR.NAT.FM.003 – Induction Checklist HR.NAT.FM.004 – Application Training and Development Loan HR.NAT.FM.005 – Job Description Evaluation HR.NAT.FM.006 – Application for Employment HR.NAT.FM.007 – Application for Leave HR.NAT.FM.008 – Application for Loan or Advance HR.NAT.FM.009 – Training Needs Application HR.NAT.FM.010 – New Appointment Checklist HR.NAT.FM.011 – Authority to Recruit HR.NAT.FM.012 – Reference Check HR.NAT.FM.013 – Interview Form HR.NAT.FM.014 – Personal Details of Employee HR.NAT.FM.015 – Departmental Training Needs Analysis HR.NAT.FM.016 – Course Details HR.NAT.FM.017 – Employee Motivated Training and Development Agreement HR.NAT.FM.020 – Attendance Register 2. Labour Standards Principle 3: Business should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. 7) Freedom of Association – an insert from our human rights policy Open communication and direct engagement between workers and management are the most effective ways to resolve workplace issues. Columbit respects the rights of workers to associate freely and seek representation in accordance with local laws. Workers shall be able to communicate openly with management regarding working conditions without fear of reprisal, intimidation or harassment. Principles 4 and 5: Business should uphold the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour and the abolition of child labour. 1) Freely Chosen Employment an insert from our human rights policy Forced, bonded or indentured labour or involuntary prison labour is not to be used. All work will be voluntary, and workers should be free to leave upon reasonable notice. Workers shall not be required to hand over government-issued identification, passports or work permits as a condition of employment, except to the extent that the company needs to take brief possession of such documents in order to comply with applicable law including but not limited to immigration law. 2) Child Labour an insert from our human rights policy Child labour is not to be used in any stage of manufacturing. The term child refers to any person employed under the age of 18, or under the age for completing compulsory education, or under the minimum age for employment in the country, whichever is greatest. The use of legitimate workplace apprenticeship programs, which comply with all applicable laws and regulations, is supported. Principle 6: Business should eliminate discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. 3) Discrimination an insert from our human rights policy Columbit is committed to a workforce free of harassment and unlawful discrimination and does not tolerate unlawful discrimination based on race, colour, age, gender, gender identity, sexual orientation, ethnicity, disability, religion, political affiliation, union membership or marital status in hiring and employment practices such as promotions, rewards, and access to training. In addition, workers or potential workers are not to be subjected to medical/pregnancy tests for the purposes of unlawfully discriminating against such an individual. 4) Harsh or Inhumane Treatment an insert from our human rights policy There is to be no harsh or inhumane treatment, including but not limited to any sexual harassment, sexual abuse, corporal punishment, mental or physical coercion or verbal abuse of workers; nor is there to be the threat of any such treatment. 5) Minimum Wages an insert from our human rights policy Compensation paid to workers shall comply with all applicable wage laws, including those relating to minimum wages, overtime hours and legally mandated benefits. Any disciplinary wage deductions are to conform to local law. The basis on which workers are being paid is to be clearly conveyed to them in a timely manner. Policy documentation relevant re: Non-Discrimination. HR.NAT.PO.001 – Employment Equity – Insert of Policy as below… Policy Stance In keeping with its policy of fair and equitable employment practices, COLUMBIT INDUSTRIES (PTY) LTD reaffirms its commitment to comply fully with the spirit and requirements of the Employment Equity Act to the strategic advantage of our business. We will take active steps to:  Ensure fair, non-discriminatory practices which respect the rights and dignity of all our employees irrespective of colour, race, gender or disability;  Remove any potentially discriminatory practices that may be identified;  Ensure that staff at all levels are suitably qualified or have the potential to meet the intrinsic requirements of the job;  Ensure that staff are allowed to realise their full potential, within the capacity of the company, and are advanced and rewarded on merit;  Transform the demographic profile of the workforce to reflect better the local and national profile;  Introduce positive action plans to accelerate the advancement of employees from designated groups. HR.NAT.PO.003 – Sexual Harassment HR.NAT.PO.004 – HIV / AIDS HR.NAT.PO.005 – Loans Procedures in support non-discrimination HR.NAT.PR.001 – Recruitment, Selection and Appointment HR.NAT.PR.002 – Induction HR.NAT.PR.003 – Grievance Code and Procedure HR.NAT.PR.004 – Administration of Performance Management HR.NAT.PR.005 – Training Needs Analysis HR.NAT.PR.006 – On the Job Training HR.NAT.PR.007 – Training Course Administration HR.NAT.PR.008 – Disciplinary Code and Procedure Forms in support of non-discrimination HR.NAT.FM.002 – Grievance Form HR.NAT.FM.021 – On the Job Training Form HR.NAT.FM.022 – Certificate of Service HR.NAT.FM.023 – Attendance Register – Open & Close MAR.NAT.FM.004 – Innovation Initiative Reference Manuals in support of Non Discrimination HS.NAT.RM.001 – Asbestos Regulations – 2001 HS.NAT.RM.002 – OHS – Occupational Health and Safety in the food and beverage industry HS.NAT.RM.003 – Occupational Health and Safety Act HS.NAT.RM.004 – Compensation Calculation for Workers Injury HS.NAT.RM.005 – Electrical Installation Regulations HS.NAT.RM.006 – Driven Machinery Regulations HR.NAT.RM.007 – Appointment Notice HR.NAT.RM.008 – Notice to Attend a Disciplinary Hearing Letter HR.NAT.RM.009 – Chairman's Report – Disciplinary Hearing HR.NAT.RM.010 – Written Warning Letter HR.NAT.RM.011 – Counselling Report HR.NAT.RM.012 – Final Written Warning Letter HR.NAT.RM.013 – Incident Investigation Letter HR.NAT.RM.014 – Recorded Verbal Warning Letter HR.NAT.RM.015 – Letter of Promotion HR.NAT.RM.016 – Notice to Appeal Letter HR.NAT.RM.017 – Fixed Term Contract HR.NAT.RM.018 – Disciplinary Records Database HR.NAT.RM.020 – EE Plan – 2005 HR.NAT.RM.021 – Dismissal Letter HR.NAT.RM.022 – Work place Skills Plan Submission for 2012 2013 HR.NAT.RM.023 – Code of Good Practice – Handling Sexual Harassment HR.NAT.RM.027 – Employment Equity Act HR.NAT.RM.028 – SARS Weekly Tax Deduction Table HR.NAT.RM.029 – Repeal of Employment Equity Regulations HR.NAT.RM.030 – Carecross GPs – W Cape HR.NAT.RM.031 – Carecross Optometrists – W Cape HR.NAT.RM.032 – Carecross Dentists – W Cape HR.NAT.RM.033 – Arrangement of Working Time HR.NAT.RM.034 – Carecross Medical Schemes HR.NAT.RM.035 – BCEA – Summary of the Act – IsiXhosa HR.NAT.RM.036 – Overtime Agreement HR.NAT.RM.037 – Carecross Frequently Asked Questions HR.NAT.RM.038 – CEE Annual Report – Aug 2009 HR.NAT.RM.039 – Sectoral Determination 7 – Domestic Worker HR.NAT.RM.040 – Denis Chair Guide 2012 HR.NAT.RM.041 – Good Standing Letter – Compensation Commissioner HR.NAT.RM.042 – TB in Our Lives HR.NAT.RM.043 – Medihelp Summary of Options – 2012 HS.CPT.RM.001 – Occupational Health and Safety Act HS.CPT.RM.002 – Columbit Evacuation Routes Area 1 HS.CPT.RM.003 – Columbit Evacuation Routes Area 2 (Downstairs) HS.CPT.RM.004 – Columbit Evacuation Routes Area 2 (Upstairs) HR.CG.RM.002 – Amended Labour Relations Act – No. 66 of 1995 HR.CG.RM.001 – Disciplinary Code Insert of Policy as below … PURPOSE This document is a policy and a procedure. It not only outlines the steps involved when initiating disciplinary procedures against employees, but also lists the various types of unacceptable behaviours and courses of disciplinary action for each type of offence. 1.1 The aim and purpose of the disciplinary code and procedure is to: 1.1.1.create a fair, equitable and consistent structure for dealing with offences; 1.1.2 promote and foster good relations and understanding between the management and employees; 1.1.3 create an atmosphere of mutual trust and goodwill between management and employees; 1.1.4 provide a procedure to be followed for the disciplining of employees whose work performance or behaviour is unsatisfactory, unacceptable or unlawful; 1.1.5 prevent conflict in the establishment, and 1.1.6 ensure as far as possible that all employees are aware of those offences which may render them liable to dismissal or other disciplinary action. Policy documentation re: Health and Safety. SH.NAT.PO.001 – Safety, Health and Risk SH.NAT.PO.002 – Protective Clothing & Equipment SH.NAT.PO.003 – Smoking Health and Safety Procedures: HS.CPT.PR.002 – Periodic Health & Safety Inspections, Assessments and Training HS.CPT.PR.004 – Investigation & Administration – Internal Incidents, Injuries & COID cases HS.CPT.PR.005 – Emergency Evacuation Procedure HS.JHB.PR.001 – Investigation & Administration – Internal Incidents, Injuries & COID cases Health and Safety Forms: HS.CPT.FM.001 – Fire Equipment Control Register HS.NAT.FM.002 – Internal Incident-Injury Report HS.NAT.FM.003 – Portable Step Ladder Control Register HS.NAT.FM.004 – Health & Safety Inspection Report HS.NAT.FM.005 – Portable Straight or extension Aluminium Ladder Control Register HS.NAT.FM.006 – Mobile Staircase Control Register HS.NAT.FM.007 – Safety Harness Control Register HS.NAT.FM.008 – Chain Block Control Register HS.NAT.FM.009 – WCL1 – Employers Report of an Occupational Disease HS.NAT.FM.010 – WCL2 – Employers Report of an Accident HS.NAT.FM.011 – WCL4 – First Medical Report in Respect of an Accident HS.NAT.FM.012 – WCL5 – Final or Progress Medical Report in Respect of an Accident HS.NAT.FM.013 – Respiratory Equipment Control Register HS.NAT.FM.014 – COID – Request for Re-opening a Claim HS.NAT.FM.015 – COID – Exposure History HS.NAT.FM.016 – Hearing Conservation Agreement HS.NAT.FM.017 – Application Form – Noise Exemption in terms of Noise Regulations 3. Environmental Principle 7: Business should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. In February 2009 Columbit announced its carbon reduction initiative customer loyalty partnership formed with the South African Government Department of Water Affairs Natural Resource Management (DWA) and Cape Nature for the restoration of degraded spekboom thicket in the semi-arid Succulent Karoo. The partnership is a natural fit in terms of channeling restoration funding through the right bodies to responsibly restore land to its natural state, all the while creating employment opportunities for impoverished communities. What makes this restoration project so amazing is that spekboom is a succulent shrub which is both endemic to South Africa and has the ability to absorb as much carbon per hectare per year as a subtropical forest. In addition, established spekboom succulents do wonders in terms of encouraging the return of other plant and animal species. Spekboom one year after planting The site chosen for our restoration project on a farm called Groenefontein falls within an area identified by Conservation International as 1 of 36 biodiversity hotspots world wide – The Succulent Karoo (the only arid hot spot). Hotspots are regions that harbour a great diversity of endemic species and, at the same time, have been impacted and altered by human activities. To qualify as a hot spot, a region must support at least 1500 endemic plant species and 0.5% of the global total. The region must have lost more than 70% of its original habitat. The 36 biodiversity hotspots contain 44% of all plant species and 35% of all terrestrial vertebrate species in only 1.4% of the earth’s land mass. For more information on hot spots, please visit www.biodiversityhotspots.org. For more information on our carbon reduction initiative, please visit the following page on our website: http://www.columbit.com/?page_id=156, or contact Bridget Davidtsz on +27 (0)83 443 8110 or bridget@columbit.com Policy documentation references re: The environment. MAR.NAT.PO.002 Environmental Policy Insert of Policy as below … ENVIRONMENTAL POLICY STATEMENT Columbit (Pty) Ltd. is committed to minimise the impact of its activities on the environment. Our message to customers, employees and communities is the same. Protecting the environment is the right thing to do, our futures depend upon it. Columbit is primarily a trading company; we act as a sales, delivery and after sales service company for the agencies we represent. In doing so it is our responsibility to choose business partners who understand and implement environmentally sound practises. In our operational context we have implemented actions to minimise our impact on the environment in the following ways:  Reduce waste  Reduce the use of fossil fuels – an area specific delivery schedule.  Recycle scrap materials and paper  Replace light bulbs with energy saving bulbs as they expire.  Replace solvent based printing inks with UV inks to minimise the use of solvents. In South Africa the measurement of a company’s impact is not legislation yet but in January 2009, Columbit started a carbon capture project in conjunction with the SA Government Department of Water affairs and forestry and Cape Nature. We have since dedicated funds to off-setting the Carbon gas emissions created by our scope 1 and 2 emissions. We are working with our suppliers to identify, reduce and off-set their carbon emissions through this project or similar ones. Procedures in support of the environment HS.CPT.PR.001 – Waste Management Work Instructions in support the environment. Warehouse – Cape Town WH.CPT.WI.002 – Planning & Loading of Orders for Delivery WH.CPT.WI.013 – Waste Handling Environmental Reference Manuals: MA.NAT.RM.015 – Columbit Quality Policy 10. Anti-corruption Principle 10: Business should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Policy documentation references re: Anti-Corruption. MA.NAT.PO.001 – Anti-corruption Insert of Policy as below … POLICY It is the Company’s policy that bribery and corruption or any other dishonest activity of a similar nature, will not be tolerated. Such incidents will be thoroughly investigated and followed up by the application of all remedies available within the full extent of the law. This also includes the application of the Company’s disciplinary procedure, if necessary. Columbit is committed to creating an environment for its employees that is rich in moral and ethical values and behaviours, and to ensure accountability in terms of these value systems. Procedures in support Anti-Corruption National FI.NAT.PR.001 – Financial Process of Columbit FI.NAT.PR.002 – Stock Take FI.NAT.PR.003 – Purchasing Capex Items PP.NAT.PR.001 – Equipment Handling Procedure PP.NAT.PR.002 – Handling Non Conforming Equipment PP.NAT.PR.003 – Handling of Customer Property during Service or Repair Consumables Division – Head Office CD.CPT.PR.010 – Reconciliation of Barrel Payments Procedures in support Anti-Corruption – Site specific Finance and Administration – Head Office FI.CPT.PR.001 – Application for Credit FI.CPT.PR.002 – Preparing Subsidiary Financial Accounts FI.CPT.PR.003 – Handling Imported Equipment and Consumables FI.CPT.PR.004 – Security Policy and Procedure Consumables Division – Cape Town. CD.CPT.PR.004 – Promoting and Selling – Corks CD.CPT.PR.005 – Promoting and Selling – Capsules CD.CPT.PR.006 – Promoting and Selling – Barrels CD.CPT.PR.007 – Promoting and Selling – Wine Consumables CD.CPT.PR.008 – Promoting and Selling – Alternative Closures CD.CPT.PR.009 – Promoting and Selling – Filtration Media CD.CPT.PR.011 – Planning and Performing Wine Treatment Services – Memstar Process and Packaging – Cape Town. PP.CPT.PR.001 – Equipment Sales Procedure PP.CPT.PR.002 – Coordinating Process of Equipment Sales PP.CPT.PR.003 – Delivery, Commissioning and Servicing of Capital Equipment PP.CPT.PR.004 – Spares Warehouse Process Process and Packaging Division JHB: PP.JHB.PR.002 – Prepare Annual Sales Budget PP JHB.PR.003 – Equipment Sales Procedure PP JHB.PR.004 – Application for Credit PP.JHB.PR.005 – Security Policy and Procedure PP.JHB.PR.006 – Delivery, Commissioning and Servicing of Capital Equipment PP.JHB.PR.007 – Spares Warehouse Process Forms in support of Anti-Corruption National Finance and Administration: FI.NAT.FM.001 – Request for Forward Exchange Purchase FI.NAT.FM.002 – Application for Credit Facilities FI.NAT.FM.003 – Capital Expenditure Request FI.NAT.FM.004 – Traveller's Expense Sheet FI.NAT.FM.005 – Internet and E-mail Usage FI.NAT.FM.006 – Overseas Trip Expense Submissions Process and Packaging Division. PP.NAT.FM.001 – Contract Agreement – Utilities Form PP.NAT.FM.002 – Purchase Requisition – Process & Packaging Forms in support of Anti-Corruption Site Specific Consumables Division – Head Office. CD.CPT.FM.004 – Sample Request – Consumables CD.CPT.FM.005 – Wine Cork Sample Request CD.CPT.FM.006 – Screw Cap Sample Request Process and Packaging National PP.JHB.FM.001 – Costing Sheet PP.JHB.FM.002 – Sales Confirmation PP.JHB.FM.003 – Handover Certificate PP.JHB.FM.004 – Installation Information PP.JHB.FM.005 – Spares Parts Enquiry PP.JHB.FM.006 – Spare Part's Requisition Form PP.JHB.FM.007 – Ordered Equipment follow up PP.JHB.FM.008 – Inter Branch Order quote form PP.JHB.FM.009 – Job Card – Columbit – JHB PP.JHB.FM.011 – Daily Trip Sheet PP.JHB.FM.012 – Indent Form Reference Manuals in support of Anti-Corruption Management: MA.NAT.RM.001 – Distributor Agreement Finance and Administration – Head Office FI.NAT.RM.001 – Overseas Trip – Agency Protection Letter FI.NAT.RM.002 – Rate per kilometre schedule – 1 March 2012 CD.CPT.RM.001 – Office Housekeeping CD.CPT.RM.002 – Reconciliation of Barrel Payments Register CD.CPT.RM.003 – Reconciliation of Cork Payments to Supplier Register CD.CPT.RM.004 – Columbit Service Agreement Memstar CD.CPT.RM.005 – Ogetto – Melamine free Work Instructions in support of Anti-corruption – site specific Finance and Administration – Head Office FI.CPT.WI.001 – Report on Credit Status FI.CPT.WI.003 – Receipts (Debtors) FI.CPT.WI.004 – Processing Forward Cover FI.CPT.WI.005 – Preparing Monthly Salaries FI.CPT.WI.007 – Costing and Accepting of Imported Products FI.CPT.WI.008 – Petty Cash Warehouse – Cape Town WH.CPT.WI.004 – Delivery of Ordered Goods WH.CPT.WI.004 Planning and Organising Outsourced Deliveries of Orders and Parcels Finance and Administration – Cape Town FI.CPT.FM.001 – Stationery Requisition FI.CPT.FM.002 – Refreshment Requisition Process and Packaging Division – Cape Town: PP.CPT.WI.001 – Calculation of Quotations PP.CPT.WI.002 – Evaluation of Client Requisition and Obtaining Sales – Equipment Process and Packaging Division – Johannesburg PP.JHB.WI.001 – Controlling and Reconciling Petty Cash PP.JHB.WI.002 – Receiving Payments PP.JHB.WI.003 – Capturing of Stock PP.JHB.WI.004 – Ordering of Equipment PP.JHB.WI.005 – Evaluation of Client Requisition and Obtaining Sales – Equipment Measurment of outcomes for all the principles: Human Rights: Columbit has NO HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS for the year to date. Should there be any human rights violations; the grievance code and procedure is freely available for staff to air their voice. All management at Columbit have an open door policy. Labour: Columbit in South Africa is actively participating in fulfilling the objectives of the Government’s Broadbased Black Economic Empowerment Act. We invest time and money and are audited annually by external consultants who measure and report on our progress. Columbit has NO LABOUR VIOLATIONS to report on for the year to date. Environment: Columbit is committed to reducing our impact on the environment. We actively strive to reduce, re-use, recycle, use energy efficient technologies and offset the carbon we create. As a company which is chiefly a trader our limited emissions caused in scope one and two are fairly easy to measure and report on. We have increased our environmental actions by approaching and forming formal agreements with some of our suppliers for their active participation in our spekboom rehabilitation project. We publicly report to the wine industry, annually on our project and all involved in the February issue of Wineland magazine (the South African wine industry trade publication) and quarterly to customers for the product category allocations with direct mail. We are thrilled that the wine industry has embraced our project, to the point that we were invited to exhibit at Cape Wine 2012, an international wine trade fair. For more information, please visit our website: Anti-corruption: Columbit is ISO Accredited; all of our systems are audited by the SABS (South African Bureau of Standards). In addition to this audit we perform bi-annual internal audits and report on the outcomes at senior management levels. Our entire ISO System is built on a sound set of principles and values which have been entrenched in our business and staff since the company was founded in 1938.
