July 18, 2012 Communication on Progress: Sirota Survey Intelligence® 2012 Sirota Survey Intelligence® became a member of the Global Compact in September 2008. In August 2009, we submitted our first COP for the 2008-2009 timeframe. Much of the work summarized in that report continues today within our company, as our commitment to abiding by the ten principles of the Global Compact is ongoing and strong. We are attaching a Communication on Progress for 2012 which outlines new initiatives Sirota has undertaken since our last report, as well as a complete report incorporating and updating all our ongoing activities related to human rights, labour, environmental and anti-corruption policies. Sirota is proud to be a member of the Global Compact, and hereby reaffirms our ongoing commitment to this initiative and its principles. Sincerely, Michael I. Meltzer Chief Executive Officer The Centre at Purchase One Manhattanville Road Purchase, New York 10577 914.696.4700 (main) 914.696.3401 (fax) www.sirota.com Organizational breakthroughs. Bottom line results. Summary of Sirota Activities for Global Compact Communication on Progress 2012 Updates National Organization on Disability – Sirota continues to partner with NOD on a project to investigate the inequities in the workplace for those with physical as well as mental disabilities. NOD had seeked to brand and expand its information delivery on employment and workplace issues for people with disabilities, to increase the understanding of employment trends and gaps for people with disabilities within some of the nation’s ‘best’ employers, and capture disability employment data from our existing client base to enhance NOD’s knowledge on employment satisfaction and workplace trends for people with disabilities from a large cross-section of the nation’s employers. Part of our current research work has demonstrated that while diversity has been on the radar for most companies over the past 20+ years, disability is often a forgotten or under-represented diversity segment in most workplace programs. In the Employer survey NOD found that only 29% of employers have a policy and or a program for employees with disabilities – and only 8% of companies have both. Our partnership will add to this body of knowledge but take it one step further by being able to compare individuals with disabilities to those without disabilities within the same companies. Several press releases, communications and Webinars about our joint work have been released in the past year. United Nations Economic and Social Council High-Level Ministerial Review Side Event – “Leveraging Psychology to Eradicate Poverty by Promoting Decent Work” – Presenter, “The Role of Psychology in Productive Employment and Decent Work,” New York City, USA, July 2012. United Nations 56th Session of the Commission on the Status of Women Parallel Event – “Transforming Communities through Psychosocial Empowerment of Poor Rural Women and Girls” Presenter, “Moving Girls Out of Poverty.” New York City, USA, February 2012. United Nations 50th Session of the Commission for Social Development Caucus – Panelist, “Psychological Contributions for the Eradication of Poverty.” New York City, USA, February 2012. Global Task Force on Humanitarian Work Psychology –Co-Chair: Continued work on expanding the network; working session in San Diego, USA, April 2012. (Pro bono) Fifth Annual Psychology Day at the United Nations – Member, Planning Committee, Program Committee, and Publicity Committee: “Human Rights for Vulnerable People: Psychological Contributions and the United Nations Perspective,” April 19, 2012, New York City, USA. (Pro bono) United Nations Psychology Coalition – Founding member of coordinated group of Psychology NGOs accredited at the United Nations; member, Advocacy Committee and Publicity Committee. International Association of Applied Psychology (IAAP) – NGO Representative to the United Nations; continued work on the Lesotho Project: Girls’ Empowerment Programme; currently planning expansion into Senegal and Ghana, in collaboration with NGO partners Africa Business Training (ABT) in Senegal, Voices of African Mothers (VAM) in Ghana, Global Camps Africa (GCA) in South Africa and other African countries, and the International Labour Organization (ILO); article describing the Programme and its evaluation appeared in the 2011 issue of Centerpoint Now, published by the World Council of Peoples for the United Nations (WCPUN): “The MultiStakeholder Camp Model in Africa Addressing the United Nations Millennium Development Goals.” 2 Co-Author of book chapter on “The Evolution of I/O Psychology” in “Humanitarian Work Psychology,” Carr, S.C., MacLachlan, M., and Furnham, A. (Eds.). New York: Palgrave-Macmillan, 2012. Co-Author of book chapter on “Corporate Environmental Sustainability and Organizational Psychology in International Organizations: Accomplishments and Possibilities” to appear in “Greening Organizations: Driving Change with I/O Psychology,” Huffman, A. and Klein, S. (Eds.), Psychology Press/Routledge, in progress. Society for Industrial/Organizational Psychology (SIOP) Conference, April 2012, San Diego, USA: Presented on “Organizational Psychology Aids Vulnerable Girls in Africa” as part of Symposium/Forum on “How Organizational Psychology Improves the Lives of the Vulnerable,” and Presented on “IAAP and the United Nations: Past and Future” as part of SIOP Special Event, “SIOP and the United Nations: Setting the Agenda.” Commit!Forum Conference – “Good Business Makes the Difference” – Presented on “Battling HIV/AIDS and Reducing Poverty: How Multiple Stakeholders Come Together to Help Vulnerable Communities.” New York City, September 2011. World Trade Centers Association (WTCA): Continued work on Service Quality Certification Program for over 100 WTCs around the world, as well as evaluation work on WTCA internal projects. Teatown Lake Reservation (a nature preserve and ecology education center in Westchester County, New York): Board Member, Executive Committee Member, Chair of the Human Resources Committee. (Pro bono) General Mills Ethical Culture Survey, Minneapolis, MN Again in 2011, Sirota worked with General Mills’ to conduct a global Ethical Culture survey in support of the company’s programs and efforts to assure that all employees understand and act according to the highest ethical standards. The survey assesses views on the overall ethical culture (e.g., leadership’s commitment to ethical business, consistency of actions with standards) ethics resources and support (e.g., training, Ethics Line, Law Department), and the perspective of those who sought advice or reported concerns. The feedback and follow-up process is geared to identifying any pockets of concern and where improvements in understanding ethics and compliance issues and resources are needed. Global Impact Related Survey Items (major clients 2010-2012) Following is a list of our clients’ survey items that directly capture employee experiences related to their company’s environmental/community responsibility and fair treatment. Also listed are items that tap physical safety and perceptions related to speaking up when there are problems/ethical concerns that closely relate to the 10 principles. Many of these items contribute to our normative database which provides benchmark measures on these important items for our clients and in our research: FINANCIAL INSTITUTION Company X encourages diversity in our workforce; I am proud of the ways Company X contributes to the community In the past twelve months I participated in a Company X sponsored volunteer activity (e.g. financial literacy, building homes, mentoring, pro bono, etc.)? Compared to other companies I know about, I believe Company X is an environmentally responsible company My Leaders are committed to diversity WORLDWIDE HOTEL Company X encourages diversity of our workforce I feel good about the ways we contribute to the community I am well informed about our sustainability efforts (i.e.,LightStay, etc) I feel good about our sustainability efforts 3 We are an environmentally responsible company My Leaders: Are committed to diversity Company X is a physically safe place to work (injury free, machines in good working order, etc.) SOFTWARE PROVIDER Company X demonstrates a commitment to being an environmentally responsible company. Company X takes a genuine interest in the welfare of the communities where we do business (good corporate citizen). [Manager Name] fosters an environment where diversity is valued. My work group has a climate in which diverse perspectives are valued. I am satisfied with my physical working conditions (facilities, work space, site amenities, etc). RETAILER Where I work people of diverse backgrounds can succeed It is important that Company X is an environmentally responsible company I am familiar with the efforts of Company X to protect the environment It is important that Company X is a socially responsible company I am familiar with the social responsibility efforts of Company X Where I work, there is an environment in which everyone is treated fairly regardless of race, nationality, gender (sex), religion, or other individual differences The person I report to creates an environment in which everyone is treated fairly I am confident that if I report an inappropriate business practice or an ethical issue something will be done about it My leaders (VP and above) encourage me to report important information to the appropriate people, even if it’s bad news The person I report to seeks different opinions, ideas, and perspectives Company X provides effective processes for handling employee complaints and concerns I can express my point of view without fear of negative consequences MANUFACTURING I am treated with respect and dignity at work The person I report to treats me with respect and dignity Where I work people of diverse backgrounds can succeed Where I work, there is an environment in which everyone is treated fairly regardless of race, nationality, gender (sex), religion, or other individual differences The person I report to creates an environment in which everyone is treated fairly The person I report to seeks different opinions, ideas, and perspectives I can express my point of view without fear of negative consequences This Company provides effective processes for handling employee complaints and concerns I am confident that if I report an inappropriate business practice or an ethical issue something will be done about it The Practice Director(s) I work with shows a strong commitment to ethical business decisions and CONSULTING conduct. The Senior Director(s) that I work with shows a strong commitment to ethical business decisions and conduct At Company X, I can express my point of view without fear of negative consequences. RETAIL Company X has an environment where employees of diverse backgrounds can succeed Company X takes a genuine interest in the welfare of the communities in which it does business (is a good corporate citizen) I feel free to speak my mind without fear of negative consequences I can report concerns about unethical conduct/practices without fear of reprisal I am treated fairly at Company X without regard to my age, race/ethnic background, religion, gender, UNIVERSITY disabilities, or sexual orientation FINANCIAL INSTITUTION This company has an environment where people of diverse backgrounds can succeed Where I work, it's safe to say what you think I am confident that if I report an inappropriate business practice or an ethical issue something will be done about it. Communication on Progress: Sirota Survey Intelligence® 4 2008-2012 a. Statement of Continued Support Sirota does not issue a formal Annual Report, therefore, we will commence by providing a statement of continued support for the Global Compact, and again renewing our ongoing commitment to the initiative and its principles, in the words of our CEO, Michael I. Meltzer: “Sirota Survey Intelligence (Sirota) is a New York-based international survey research and consulting firm which conducts employee satisfaction and other kinds of multi-constituency organizational surveys; based on these surveys, we provide feedback and consultation regarding improving the well-being of employees and other stakeholders, while enhancing the success of the organization. Sirota’s philosophy and methodology is drawn from the discipline of organizational psychology and successful management practices, and is congruent with the Ten Principles of the Global Compact. Ours is a partnership culture, both internally and in regard to our various stakeholders. It forms the basis of how we advise our clients; how we market our professional services; how we relate to our employees in our home office in the USA, our employees in the United Kingdom, and in our affiliate organizations around the world. Our client work includes an emphasis on the importance of adherence to basic human rights in order to ensure an engaged, committed work force. Research from our own archives shows that a high level of employee satisfaction goes hand in hand with greater financial success. The Ten Principles also underlie the way we partner with our vendors, the way we interact with the community at large, and our efforts to contribute to the effectiveness of the United Nations in its achievement of the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs). Our range of surveys includes employee opinion/attitude surveys, ethics, accountability, and corporate social responsibility (CSR). Our definition of CSR is the equitable treatment of customers, employees, vendors, owners/investors, and the community: one group does not prosper at the expense of another group. Figure 1 displays our model. Our CSR surveys show organizations where they stand on a number of CSR measures, how they compare to other organizations, and advise them on how to improve their standing. Sirota is a professional organization which prides itself on its thought leadership and research which we endeavor to actively disseminate to our colleagues in business and in psychology. To this end we have published presentations in newspapers, journals, on our web site and in professional conferences. Sirota’s admiration for the United Nations, the pre-eminent organization supporting Human Rights, has been demonstrated by our endorsement (through financing and time) of one of our senior employees: Dr. Mary O’Neill Berry, an NGO representative to the United Nations Economic and Social Council (ECOSOC) from the International Association of Applied Psychology (IAAP). Recently, Dr. Berry has presented at a symposium for the 2010 Congress of IAAP on the UN’s work in poverty reduction and on the contributions of organizational psychology to the work of the UN. Sirota is proud to be a member of the Global Compact, and hereby reaffirms our ongoing commitment to this initiative and its principles.” b. Description of Actions This section addresses activities and, if applicable, policies, which reflect Sirota’s continued implementation of at least two of the four issue areas (human rights, labour, environment, anticorruption) related to the principles. 1. Labour i. Sirota companies continue to comply with all relevant laws and regulations mandated by the relevant local authorities, including the Occupational Health & Safety Administration (OSHA) in the United States, and the Health & Safety Executive in the UK. ii. Each new employee receives briefing and training about office HSE programs within their first week, and are advised of Sirota’s overall Health, Safety and Environmental protection programs. Sirota’s HSE programs are reviewed on an annual basis and updated accordingly. iii. Sirota provides a safe working environment for employees. Regular fire drills and fire alarm testing procedures are conducted in all Sirota locations, and all office buildings are inspected regularly and adhere to all building and construction Codes. 5 iv. Sirota has a strong interest in creating and maintaining benefit programs that improve and enhance the quality of life of all its employees and that help make Sirota an employer of choice. Benefits include healthcare coverage for applicable employees and their families, and supplemental programs for vision care, preventative care, dependent care programs, wellness and fitness programs, life and long-term disability programs. Sirota also contributes to the retirement pensions of employees. v. Sirota conducts an annual Employee Opinion Survey, which is an opportunity for all employees to make their views known in an unfiltered manner to all levels of management in the firm. This has been an effective means of upward communication for almost 12 years now, and the firm has a good record of addressing issues which surface in the survey results. vi. Sirota has a flexible workplace policy. Several employees work virtually from their homes in other states, or countries, besides our HQ state of New York, and many more work at home one or more days each week, at the discretion of their supervisor. Many employees work hours other than the traditional 9 to 5, again, at the discretion of their supervisors. vii. Sirota supports the annual “Take Your Child To Work” day. viii. Sirota provides an annual Employee Holiday Party, held off-site. ix. Although current economic conditions made it impossible in 2008 and 2009, prior to that, Sirota awarded annual bonuses to all employees who merited them and Sirota was able to provide bonuses to employees in 2010, and the outlook is promising for 2011. x. Sirota is an equal opportunity employer, and numbers among its workforce not only African-American and Hispanic individuals, but also many nationalities, including British, Chinese, Indian, and Irish. 2. Environment i. Sirota has an appointed ECO officer and has convened a group of employees who meet as the “Green Team” or “Corporate Social Responsibility Team”. They have been responsible for spearheading a company-wide effort regarding conservation of paper (encouraging paperless output and providing options to reduce paper usage such as toner recycling, double-sided paper use, etc.). Sirota also continues to practice reduced energy consumption by ensuring that employees turn off lights, computers and printers when not in use. ii. This team also identified numerous tips for healthy living, which are regularly published in the firm’s weekly online newsletter, and sponsored regular potluck lunches for all employees featuring healthy foods. iii. Sirota recently renovated its office space in the US to include 100% recycled carpet and ceiling tiles. Further, in 2010 facilities in the lavatories throughout the space were fitted with energy and water-saving automatic faucets, soap dispensers and flushers. iv. Sirota has eliminated paper products (cups, paper towels, etc.) and replaced them with reusable products and energy-saving appliances. v. Sirota employees are encouraged to support their local farming communities by participating in Community Supported Agriculture (CSA) programs. vi. Sirota continues to contribute (on behalf of our clients in lieu of holiday cards) to “Trees for the Future”, an organization that has, since 1989, helped communities around the world plant trees. vii. Sirota’s Corporate Social Responsibility/Community Service activities include the following: a. Encouraging employees to volunteer help and assistance to their own communities b. Collecting toys for needy children at holiday time c. Participating in the community Blood drive d. Sponsoring company-funded flu-shot clinics e. Donating to funds for catastrophic events (we received a Certificate of Recognition from Feed the Children for our contributions to the victims of Hurricane Katrina, and most recently have held a pot-luck luncheon and donated all proceeds to the victims of the earthquake in Haiti) f. Donating to employee-sponsored causes, e.g., breast cancer research and the USO g. Discounting work to not-for-profit organizations by 20% h. Conducting pro bono projects for not-for-profit organizations such as the United Nations Department of Public Information (DPI), Action Against Hunger – USA, the National Park Foundation, and the Institute for Social Research, University of Michigan, and, most recently, the National Organization on Disability (NOD) which promotes full and equal participation of America’s men, women and children with disabilities. NOD seeks to brand and expand its information delivery on employment and workplace issues for people with disabilities, to increase the understanding of employment trends and gaps for people with disabilities within some of the nation’s ‘best’ employers, and, to do so, will partner with Sirota to capture disability employment data from our existing client base to enhance NOD’s knowledge on employment satisfaction and workplace trends for people with disabilities from a large cross-section of the nation’s employers. Sirota has 6 continued the partnership with NOD in 2011, investigating the inequities in the workplace for those with physical as well as mental disabilities. 3. Anti-Corruption i. One of Sirota’s products is an Ethics Survey, which assesses the culture of integrity in an organization. In addition, most of our broad-based employee opinion surveys include items measuring employees’ views of their own organization’s performance on such critical areas as “being ethical in its business dealings.” ii. Sirota includes on its website prominent mention of the Global Compact and our support for its principles. iii. Sirota passes the strictest global requirements regarding the protection of human subjects in our survey work, and the privacy of the information we gather. We continue to hold “Safe Harbor” status in the European Union (EU) and reaffirm our commitment to he EU principles annually. 4. Partnerships i. Global Task Force on Humanitarian Work Psychology –Co-Chair: Continued work on expanding the network; working session in San Diego, USA, April 2012. (Pro bono); Fifth Annual Psychology Day at the United Nations – Member, Planning Committee, Program Committee and Publicity Committee: “Human Rights for Vulnerable People: Psychological Contributions and the United Nations Perspective,” April 19, 2012, New York City, USA. (Pro bono); International Association of Applied Psychology (IAAP) – NGO Representative to the United Nations; continued work on the Lesotho Project: Girls’ Empowerment Programme; currently planning expansion into Senegal and Ghana, in collaboration with NGO partners Africa Business Training (ABT) in Senegal, Voices of African Mothers (VAM) in Ghana, Global Camps Africa (GCA) in South Africa and other African countries, and the International Labour Organization (ILO). ii. Drs. Reichman and Berry also presented Brown Bag lunches at UNDP, covering topics such as dealing with bureaucracy, teambuilding, overcoming resistance to collaboration and gaining acceptance for new ideas, implementing/operationalizing projects, and effective communications. iii. They are members of the Planning Committee of the annual Psychology Day at the United Nations.. iv. They have interviewed (and subsequently published those interviews) Georg Kell, Executive Director of the Global Compact, and Djankou Ndjonkou, then Director of the New York Office of the International Labour Organization (ILO). v. They have offered Sirota’s services to Dr. Manuel Escudero, head of the Global Compact Research Institute, to contribute research and/or presentations on CSR to Global Compact members with outstanding COPs. vi. They are members of the Global Task Force on Organisational Psychology for Poverty Reduction, founded at the 2008 meeting of the Society of Industrial/Organizational Psychology (SIOP), subsequently renamed the Global Task Force for Humanitarian Work Psychology. vii. They are founding members of the United Nations Psychology Coalition, a group of NGOs accredited to the United Nations, all of which are psychological in nature. vii. Several Sirota staff have attended Global Compact meetings in New York and Boston. x. Several Sirota staff have attended conferences organized by the Corporate Responsibility Officer (CRO). xi. Sirota has established a network of affiliates around the world, who assist in securing and implementing client projects. c. Measurement of Outcomes 1. Labour. a. Executive Summary of Sirota Employee Survey: Sirota fully believes in “practicing what we preach” and we survey our employees on an annual basis, using a customized version of the survey items we provide to our clients. The Sirota internal survey results are substantially above the benchmark for engagement. We disaggregate the company data to team leaders and insist on extensive review and action plans at the team level. The Management Committee regularly reviews progress on these plans and conducts ‘pulse’ surveys when necessary to check actual progress. Our philosophy is to continuously strive to improve the results. b. Sirota’s most recent filing of its EEOC Certificate of Compliance was July, 2010. 2. Environment. a. Samples of suggestions for conservation efforts included in weekly online newsletter “This Week At Sirota”: 7 i. Use cloth…Everything. Convert to cloth napkins and rags instead of disposable napkins and paper towels. And if you have to use disposable paper products, like toilet paper, there are “green” brands that offer more environmental products. ii. Sign up for Electronic Bank Statements and E-bills: A great way to avoid wasting paper iii. Help with the Gulf Oil Clean Up!! Send your hair and old nylons to “Matter of Trust” or get your beautician and barber to send in their customers' discarded hair. Any hair and any nylons will do when it comes to making oil containment booms to absorb the oil including pet hair. Hair absorbs oil even the kind of oil flowing through the Gulf. Hair salons and pet-grooming businesses are encouraged to contact Matter of Trust in order to receive information on how to help. Why throw all those locks away, when you can be helping to save fish and animals and possibly the jobs of thousands of people who depend on those habitats for their livelihood (such as shrimpers). Even if you don't have enough hair to cut off, you can get involved by sending old pantyhose too iv. Teach your kids to love and respect the earth. Good habits start now and the best way to perpetuate environmentalism, is to start teaching your kids to make environmentally-friendly choices at an early age. v. Hang Your Clothes Out To Dry. Hanging your clothes out to dry is less abrasive for your clothes (so you have to replace them less often) and also saves on costly electric bills. b. Certificate of Recognition presented by “Feed The Children” for emergency relief following Hurricane Katrina: 2005 c. Donation of proceeds (with match from Company) from employee “Hearts for Haiti” luncheon: 2010 d. Samples of healthy potluck lunch dishes shared with Sirota Staff: i. Summer Cobb Salad ii. Fat-free Yogurt and Granola parfait iii. 7 layer bean dip and whole grain pita chips iv. Vegetarian lasagna 3. CSR a. Examples of Sirota CSR Survey Items: i. Rate XYZ on having a genuine interest in the well-being of its employees ii. Rate XYZ on taking a genuine interest in the welfare of the community in which it does business (being a good “corporate citizen”). iii. Rate XYZ on having a genuine concern about protecting the environment. iv. Rate your awareness of/familiarity with XYZ’s various CSR programs/activities. v. Rate the effectiveness of XYZ’s various CSR programs/activities. b. CSR Grid (see below). c. CSR Project: Montefiore Medical Center 2009 Sustainability Survey d. Attendance at Global Compact-related Meetings: i. UN Global Compact US Network Meeting: “Water in the 21st Century: Managing the Business Risks and Opportunities;” 3 November 2008, New York City. ii. UN Global Compact US Network Meeting: “Business and Human Rights;” 28 April 2008, Boston, MA. e. Attendance at CSR-Related Meetings: i. Corporate Responsibility Officer (CRO) Conference, 10 May 2007, New York City. ii. CRO Conference, 12 September 2007, Chicago, IL. f. Presentations on CSR: i. CRO Conference, 26 March 2008, New York City: “Attitudes of Corporate Responsibility 8 Practitioners and Providers” – Joint Sirota/CRO research – presented by Doug Klein, President, Sirota Survey Intelligence. ii. CRO Conference, 18 June 2008, San Francisco: “Top 10 Trends in CSR,” presented by Doug Klein, President, Sirota Survey Intelligence. iii. Australian Psychological Association Conference, 26 June 2009, Sydney, Australia: “Business Sustainability as a Function of Corporate Social Responsibility,” Poster Session presented by Walter Reichman, Vice President, Sirota Survey Intelligence. g. Press Releases on CSR: i. “Workers Satisfied with Company’s Social Responsibility Are More Engaged and Positive, Study Shows,” 2 May 2007 ii. “Corporate Social Responsibility Contributes to Bottom Line, Improves Worker Engagement and Customer Loyalty, Says Sirota Survey,” 18 June 2007 iii. “Workers’ Perceptions of Companies’ Environmental Policies is Key Factor in Employee Engagement,” 5 September 2007 iv. “Corporate Social Responsibility in Uncertain Times Requires Reaching Out to Many Affected Groups,” 29 October 2007 v. “New Study Finds Big Differences in Perceptions of the Success of Corporate Responsibility Efforts,” 22 April 2008 h. Publication: “A Field Guide to Corporate Social Responsibility,” Michael I. Meltzer, CEO of Sirota, ACC Docket, April 2008 4. Anti-Corruption. a. Examples of Items from Sirota’s Ethics Survey: i. Rate XYZ on being ethical in its business dealings. ii. XYZ has created an environment which provides protection against unlawful harassment and discrimination. iii. I can report financial irregularities without fear of reprisal. iv. The leaders of XYZ show strong commitment to ethical business decisions and conduct. v. The people I work with act with integrity. b. Presentation on Ethics: “Directors as Guardians of Compliance and Ethics within the Corporate Citadel: What the Policy Community Should Know” made by Michael I. Meltzer, CEO of Sirota, to the RAND Center for Corporate Ethics and Governance, Washington, DC, 12 May 2010. Abstract: A discussion about the role of corporate directors and their oversight responsibility for ethics and compliance matters. The paper draws upon recent survey data which suggests that prevailing practices such as board reliance upon corporate counsel as the primary source of information and insight on matters of ethics and compliance may not be adequate in the face of greater expectations for corporate accountability. c. Presentation on Ethics: “Leadership’s Commitment to Ethical Business; Consistency of Actions with Standards” made by Dr. John Sherman, VP of Sirota, to General Mills leadership, Minnesota, 1 August 2010. Sirota conducted General Mills’ annual global Ethical Culture survey in support of the company’s programs and efforts to assure that all employees understand and act according to the highest ethical standards. The survey assesses views on the overall ethical culture (e.g., leadership’s commitment to ethical business, consistency of actions with standards) ethics resources and support (e.g., training, Ethics Line, Law Department), and the perspective of those who sought advice or reported concerns. The feedback and follow-up process is geared to identifying any pockets of concern and where improvements in understanding ethics and compliance issues and resources are needed. d. Presentation: “Assessing and Shaping a Culture of Ethical Conduct” made by Michael I. Meltzer, CEO of Sirota, to ACCGNY, New York City, 14 April 2009 c. Newspaper Article: “Where Businesses Fall Short,” by Michael I. Meltzer, CEO of Sirota, The Philadelphia Inquirer, 14 October 2008. 9 5. Human Rights. a. Examples of Sirota Survey Items with Human Rights Connotations: i. Rate the extent to which management treats employees with respect and dignity. ii. How do you feel about the amount XYZ has done to provide opportunities for women/for minorities? iii. Where I work, reasonable accommodations are made for persons with disabilities. iv. My manager/supervisor is sensitive to the need for balance between my work life and my personal life. v. Employees where I work can usually get a fair hearing for their complaints. b. Presentation: “Assessing and Shaping a Culture of Corporate Responsibility” made by Michael I. Meltzer, CEO of Sirota, to Business Leaders Initiative on Human Rights, Stockholm, Sweden, 19 June 2008 c. Co-presenter (Dr. M. Berry) at Executive Board Presentation, SIOP, April 2010, with Stuart C. Carr, Co-Chair: “The Global Task Force for Humanitarian Work Psychology.” d. Co-Chair, Global Task Force for Humanitarian Work Psychology: Contributed to the online global civil society consultation for the MDG+10 Summit (Theme 3: Proposals to Accelerate Progress). The executive summary of the consultation report was distributed as a conference room paper to all UN Member States who attended the Informal Interactive Hearings of the UN General Assembly with representatives of non-governmental organizations, civil society and the private sector, on June 14-15 in New York. The full report is available on: www.un-ngls.org/mdgconsultation e. Nominated for Roundtable participation at MDG+10 Summit Meeting, September 2022, 2010 (Roundtable 1: Addressing the challenge of poverty, hunger and gender equality; Roundtable 4: Addressing emerging issues and evolving approaches; Roundtable 6: Widening and strengthening partnerships.) f. Publication: Berry, Mary O’Neill, Reichman, W., MacLachlan, M., Klobas, J., Hui, H., and Carr, S.C. “Humanitarian Work Psychology: The Contributions of Organizational Psychology to Poverty Reduction,” Journal of Economic Psychology, 2010. 6. Partnerships. a. The Lesotho Project (pro-bono): Assisted in the development and evaluation of a Girls’ Empowerment Programme in Lesotho, Southern Africa; involved the coordination of multiple stakeholders (NGO and Government) in the design and support of the Programme; attendees were female school dropouts; focus was on HIV/AIDS prevention and risk reduction, along with income-generating activities; a follow-up training workshop ended with the opportunity to be voluntarily tested for HIV/AIDS – the vast majority of workshop attendees elected to be tested. Future similar Camps are in the planning stages. A summary of the Project is posted by the UN Foundation and Better World Campaign on UN Wire, July 7, 2010: www.smartbrief.com An article about the Camp appeared on PR Newswire: www.prnewswire.com/news-releases b. Psychology Day at the United Nations, 2011: Co-Chair of the Planning Committee and Chair of the Program Committee for this event. c. International Association of Applied Psychology (IAAP): Dr. Mary Berry continuing as NGO Representative to the United Nations for this professional association. 10 d. World Trade Centers Association (WTCA) (a Not-for-Profit Organization): Continued expansion of the Service Quality Certification Program for the Committee on Quality and Standards, originally developed by Sirota in the mid-90’s; currently over 100 World Trade Centers have been certified in up to eight service categories: Trade Information Services, Business Services, Trade Education Services, WTC Club, Tenant Services, Conference Facilities and Services, Display and Exhibit Services, and Group Trade Missions (Inbound and Outbound). The Self-Assessment Guidelines, on which the certification is based, are periodically revised and updated. Training workshops on the certification process are regularly delivered. Figure 1: CSR GRID: Measurement Level 1 Dimension Main Themes Notes Baseline Level 2 Maturing There are few if CSR activities are any CSR activities among those underway. important to the Decisions about organization but are CSR activities are decided upon and made separately handled in ways from other distinct from the Integration of CSR in business major business Activity in CSR Business decisions. operations. The organization is involved in a limited CSR activities are number of CSR non-existent or activities above limited to one or those that are Extent of CSR Activities in two and/ or are of purely Activity in CSR Organization a short duration philanthropic. Descriptions of relevant legal and ethical practices and focus points are There is little to no distributed at least communication once, and then Communication/Awareness about legal and again each time Compliance of compliance ethical practices. they change. Training on legal and ethical behavior is part of the Legal and ethical standard onoperations are boarding and the outlined in professional handbooks and development other documents, process. (There is but training is not no formal system of Degree of compliance provided except in accountability for Compliance efforts special cases. employees) 11 CSR accomplishments are not counted CSR activities are among the assets included in the of the company. discussions about They are the overall standing considered of the company in Level 2secondary to core the community. should we business (CSR activities include CSR operations and are receive minimal or linked to perceived as no weight when Economic initial adding little to the evaluating the Performance Company Performance & company financial value to success of the CSR Alignment Evaluation eval the company. organization) The potential for CSR activities to CSR activities are contribute to not seen as organizational Economic contributing to the success is Performance Acknowledgement of success of the acknowledged CSR Alignment Contribution organization. within the company. The CSR focus of the organization is extended to include local activities or Measurement The CSR focus of partnership with an Economic DIM correct? the organization is established national Performance Scope of primarily philanthropic CSR Alignment CSR Focus CSR? philanthropic. endeavor. CSR is not considered when CSR is Economic developing acknowledged when Performance Development of Products company products developing products Innovation and Services and services. and services. Environmental impact beyond Consideration of internal practices is environmental considered when impact is limited planning to activities such organizational as recycling and operations (i.e., Environmental energy efficiency environmental Performance Environmental in organizational footprint, pollution, CSR Alignment Consideration practices. etc.). The organization does not encourage The organization stakeholder encourages groups to take stakeholder groups risks to find ways to take risks to find of operating that ways of operating Environmental reduce negative that reduce Performance effects on the negative effects on Innovation Risk Taking Behavior environment. the environment. 12 CSR is not included in the organization's CSR is broadly formal statements addressed in the of mission, values, organization's Leadership and goals mission, values, Excellence Integration with mission, presented to and goals presented Values statement, and goals stakeholders. to stakeholders. Civility, trust, and Civility, trust, and respect for human respect for human rights is a value of rights is a value and the organization is actively promoted but not actively within Leadership promoted within organizational Excellence Civility, Trust, and Respect organizational activities such as Values for Human Rights activities. special programs. Financial and Some financial and human resource human resource expenditures in expenditures in CSR CSR activities are activities are Measurement Incorporation into the not assessed in assessed in terms Audit Business terms of ROI. of ROI. Opinions regarding Opinions regarding the organization's the organization's CSR activities and CSR activities and overall reputation overall reputation are assessed, but are not assessed informally or from a Measurement formally or nonrepresentative Survey Opinion Survey informally. sample. CSR results are reported to shareholders, financiers, and the Board of Directors CSR results are through the annual either not reported report, most often or are reported among Process informally to philanthropic Excellence shareholders, activities distinct Communication financiers, or the from business (Outward) Board of Directors. activities. The importance of CSR is not The importance of communicated to CSR is new employees in communicated to Process onboarding or new employees Excellence other socialization during onboarding Onboarding Onboarding processes. procedures. CSR responsibilities are carried out as an additional duty of an individual and CSR is a formal Process is not formally responsibility Excellence represented in his specified in an Organizational Formal Presence within or her job individual's job Design Organization description. description. 13 Little or no Employee rewards are given contributions that for employee enhance an Process contributions that organization's CSR Excellence Level 3 enhance an performance are Recognition & criteria to organization's CSR both encouraged Rewards Rewards & Recognition high? performance. and recognized. The organization does not explicitly The organization encourage or encourages provide incentives customers to to customers for participate in participation in environmental or environmental or social responsibility Social social activities through Performance responsibility advertisements and Innovation Customer Incentives activities. campaigns. The equitable treatment of stakeholders is Ensuring equitable taken into Social treatment of consideration in Performance stakeholders is not strategic planning Treatment of Review Level an explicit part of but not necessarily Stakeholders Equitable Treatment 2 strategic planning. followed. Suppliers are made Process Suppliers' CSR aware of the Excellence activities are not organization's CSR Communication considered in standards and (Horizontal) Interaction with Suppliers business dealings. activities. There is little There is a concern knowledge and no for employees in involvement with foreign subsidiaries the manner in but the local culture Social which employees is the major Performance in foreign determinant of Treatment of Treatment of foreign subsidiaries are equitable Stakeholders subsidiaries treated. treatment. LIST OF THE GLOBAL COMPACT PRINCIPLES Human Rights 1. Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights, and 2. Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Labour 3. Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining, 4. the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour, 5. the effective abolition of child labour, and 6. The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Environment 7. Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges, 8. undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility, and 9. Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Anti-Corruption 10. Business should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. 14
