Statement of continued support by the Chief Executive Officer Statement of the company's chief executive (CEO or equivalent) expressing continued support for the Global Compact and renewing the company's ongoing commitment to the initiative and its principles. Sep 12, 2012 To our stakeholders: I am pleased to confirm that Badger Packaging Corporation reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labor, Environment and Anti-Corruption. In this annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to share this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Sincerely yours, James T Anderson President Human Rights Assessment, policy and goals Description of the relevance of human rights for the company (i.e. human rights riskassessment). Description of policies, public commitments and company goals on Human Rights.  Principle 1 Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights  Principle 2 Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses Assessment Badger Packaging Corporation fully supports The Universal Declaration of Human Rights (UDHR), and understands the importance of our stake in the underpinning of Human Rights as a part of our business practice. Implementation Badger Packaging’s policy manual, which was updated as recently as May 2012, clearly defines what is considered appropriate behavior as well as the consequences for not abiding by them, up to and including termination. Safety has also been at the top of our list well before becoming a member of the Global Compact. We have mock OSHA inspections twice per year, which typically result in very few if any suggested changes. In addition, to the mock inspections, we hold monthly safety meetings, which include the president, to help educate and identify any concerns. There is also a suggestion box available to all employees. As part of our safety program, cleanliness is an integrated part. Not only is this part of our policy manual, but we have also made it a part of our union contract with disciplinary action for non-compliance outlined in both. Ergonomics also plays a large role, especially for employees in manufacturing. As a part of our safety meetings, we also address ergonomics in the form of mats, lifts, workflow, etc…, to help make employees not only more efficient, but comfortable and injury free. Measurement of Outcomes Badger Packaging has not had any complaints from our employees, supply chain, or clients in regards to human rights violations (or potential violations) , nor has Badger Packaging been involved in any human rights violation during or before our membership to the Global Compact. Labor Assessment, policy and goals Description of the relevance of labor rights for the company (i.e. labor rights-related risks and opportunities). Description of written policies, public commitments and company goals on labor rights.  Principle 3 Businesses should uphold freedom of association & effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining  Principle 4 The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor  Principle 5 The effective abolition of child labor  Principle 6 Eliminate discrimination in respect of employment and occupation Assessment Within the room where employees are interviewed, a large poster is clearly displayed explaining all employee rights. In addition, Badger Packaging’s policy manual outlines our equal opportunity employment policy which in essence outlines that hiring, work assignments, rates of pay, promotion, and layoffs will be based on factors such as job performance, skill and ability, length of service, and work record. Implementation Since the mid 1970’s, Badger Packaging has had a Union. However, one of the freedoms we believe in, then and still, is the freedom to choose to belong to a Union or not. Therefore, even though employees may choose not be a member, the only right they give up is the right to vote on contract negotiations. Once the contract is ratified, all employees are covered under it, member or not. As of 2012, our sales force is now 50% male/female. This was not a mandate, but the result of selecting the most qualified people for the job. Badger Packaging also offers an anonymous suggestion box for all employees along with an open door policy for all employees to speak with the president. Both of these vehicles for open expression of concerns, questions, or suggestions are outlined in our policy manual. Measurement of Outcomes One measurement of our environment and labor practices is reflected in the mean duration of employment for all of our employees. We are fortunate to have a very low turnover, even in our sales department. As of 2012, our mean duration of employment is 20.5 years. Badger Packaging has not had any complaints from our employees, supply chain, or clients in regards to labor rights violations (or potential violations) , nor has Badger Packaging been involved in any labor rights violation during or before our membership to the Global Compact. Environment Assessment, policy and goals Description of the relevance of environmental protection for the company (i.e. environmental risks and opportunities). Description of policies, public commitments and company goals on environmental protection.  Principle 7 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges  Principle 8 Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility  Principle 9 Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies Assessment Badger Packaging has always done its best to be a responsible steward by installing high efficiency parabolic reflective fluorescent lighting in both office and plant, recycling all fluorescent tubes, office waste, oil and solvents, and remixing unused ink into black for jobs requiring only a class stamp or part number. Implementation  Since 1965, Badger Packaging has recovered 100 percent of its corrugated scrap through recycling and reuse. In 1990 Badger Packaging installed an automated scrap system that recovers scrap at each machine and directs it to a centralized cyclone where it is shredded and unitized for recycling.  Since 1992, Badger Packaging has been using only water based (Flexo) inks in its printing process.  Badger Packaging has been active in the recycling and reuse of pallets for decades, with exchange programs in place with many of its customers.  Since 2003, Badger Packaging has been able to provide a 100 percent recycled Old Corrugated Container (OCC) Edge Crush Test (ECT) sheet.  Korrvu®, a fairly recent addition to our product lineup, is a cost effective sustainable alternative to foam. There is an increasing push to remove foam as it is one of the last non-sustainable inner-packs used today. There currently is no direct replacement for foam, but with more solutions like Korrvu®, we are getting closer. Over 93 percent of corrugated boxes supplied are by Sustainable Forestry Initiative (SFI) program participants and their partners. SFI program participants are committed to sustainable forestry on their own forests, and are required by the SFI Standard to encourage their suppliers to practice sustainable forestry. Badger Packaging's key supplier of sheets complies with the American Forest & Paper Association’s rigorous SFI Standard and operates one of the world’s largest fiber reclamation systems. Measurement of Outcomes Badger Packaging’s environmental responsibility began well before becoming a member of the Global Compact. Our goal is to educate our employees and clients on the importance of sustainable packaging. We currently have a target of 2014 to have two major clients converted to 100% sustainable packaging and are well on our way for both. Many of our clients have shown interest, but unfortunately, there is not a cost effective solution to replace non-sustainable packaging in all cases. Anti-Corruption Assessment, policy and goals Description of the relevance of anti-corruption for the company (i.e. anti-corruption riskassessment). Description of policies, public commitments and company goals on anti-corruption.  Principle 10 Businesses should work against all forms of corruption, including extortion and bribery. Badger Packaging supports the Global Compact’s principles on anti-corruption, complies with all State and Federal law, and condemns any form of bribery or corrupt activity as part of our business. Badger Packaging has not be involved in any corrupt activities (or potential corruption) , nor has Badger Packaging been involved in corrupt activities during or before our membership to the Global Compact.
