Kikkoman Group Corporate Citizenship Report 2012 December, 2012 Kikkoman Group Corporate Citizenship Report 2012 Contents Contents ···································································P1 Message from the CEO ·······················································P2 Kikkoman Group Overview ···················································P4 Kikkoman’s Approach to Corporate Citizenship ······························P6 Environmental Report Environmental Management ·············································P9 Preventing Global Warming ···········································P11 Reducing and Recycling Wastes and Byproducts ························P13 Promoting Environmental Management System ···························P16 Promoting Environmental Communication ·······························P16 Environmental Risk Management ·······································P20 Energy, Resource and Discharge Flows ································P22 Environmental Accounting ············································P23 Social Report For Our Customers ···················································P26 For Our Employees ···················································P36 For Our Shareholders and Investors ··································P43 Working with Suppliers ··············································P45 As a Member of the Local Community ··································P47 The Great East Japan Earthquake ·····································P52 The Kikkoman Group’s Shokuiku Activities ···························P55 Management Report Compliance ··························································P58 Corporate Governance ················································P63 Framework to Promote Corporate Social Responsibility ················P65 Risk Management ·····················································P66 Principal Initiatives in FY2012／ Objectives in FY2013 ····················P67 Third-party Opinion ·······················································P68 【About this report】Kikkoman has published an environmental report each year since its first Environmental Report was published in 1998. In 2006, we expanded the social component of the report and changed its name to the Kikkoman Group Corporate Citizenship Report. 【Scope】This report covers the activities of the Kikkoman Group, comprising the Group’s holding company, Kikkoman Corporation, as well as its 62 consolidated subsidiaries and equity-method subsidiaries and affiliates (as of March 31, 2012). This report refers to the Kikkoman Group as “Kikkoman Group” or “the Group,” to Kikkoman Corporation as “Kikkoman Corporation,” and to Kikkoman Corporation, Kikkoman Food Products Company, Kikkoman Beverage Company, and Kikkoman Business Services Company collectively as “Kikkoman.” Otherwise companies are referred to by name. 【Reporting Period】Fiscal 2012 (April 1, 2011-March 31, 2012) This report may contain references to activities that were initiated prior to March 2011 or after April 2012. 【Date of Publication】December 2012 Previous report: December 2011 Next report: Scheduled for December 2013 【Note on Statements about the Forecast】In addition to information about past and present activities undertaken by the Kikkoman Group, this report includes statements about the forecast in the form of plans and projections current at the time of its publication. These statements reflect the judgment of management based on information that was available at the time of their inclusion in the report. Changing conditions may cause the results of future business operations and other events to differ from projections. 1 Message from the CEO Since Kikkoman was founded, we have given careful attention to our role as a public entity in society, and we have conducted our business based on an awareness of our connections with society. This approach is reflected in the current management principles of the Kikkoman Group. When the unprecedented earthquake struck in March 2011, the Kikkoman Group immediately took action to provide support for the affected areas. As part of our efforts to help the affected areas, we called upon our group companies and individual employees to provide donations. We received donations from many of our employees and 18 of our group companies—not only in Japan but also in 13 countries and regions overseas. Our employees are still proactively participating in volunteer activities to assist the affected areas with reconstruction. A large number of our employees are doing whatever they can in order to help address such social problems, and this demonstrates that the mentality that was established at the start of our company has taken root and spread throughout our Group. As a company that manufactures food products, we have a special responsibility that people eat. The most fundamental and important responsibility of a food manufacturer is to consistently provide products that are safe and that can be enjoyed with a sense of assurance. The Kikkoman Group has developed a quality control system for ensuring the safety of products from the raw materials stage, and we have launched an initiative so that the opinions that we receive from customers through the Kikkoman Consumer Center our Customer Service Center are reflected in our business. Since we made our Shokuiku (food education) Commitment in 2005, we have been conducting food education activities aimed at making eating more interesting and fun. We intend to proactively continue providing tours of our plants and offering “Kikkoman Soy Sauce Academy”, in which our employees visit elementary schools in various regions and talk about the raw materials that go into soy sauce and how soy sauce is made. Through such efforts, we hope to convey the wonderful aspects of Japan’s food culture to many people and contribute to passing on this culture. 2 Kikkoman is a company that conducts business related to soy sauce, which is a traditional Japanese seasoning. We provide our products and services in over 100 countries and are continuing to develop our business globally. In 2001, Kikkoman became the first Japanese company to sign the United Nations Global Compact. We view our signing the Global Compact as a promise that we will fulfill our responsibilities as a company in the global community. In 2011, we formulated the Kikkoman Corporate Citizenship Framework in order to clarify what we believe to be our social responsibilities as a company, establish specific initiatives, and make improvements. This Framework sets forth three key themes for helping us to realize the objectives of our management principles. They are: Responsible Operations, Products /Services, and Actions for global society. By establishing action objectives based on these themes, and having each of our employees put them into practice in their day-to-day work, we will continue to strengthen our activities and thereby fulfill our responsibilities to society. Mitsuo Someya President and Chief Executive Officer JULY 2012 3 Kikkoman Group Overview Kikkoman Kikkoman Group Overview Group in the (as of March 31, 2011) World Kikkoman Group delivers products and services to more than 100 countries worldwide. ● Consolidated Subsidiaries 41companies ■ Unconsolidated Subsidiaries 21companies ▲ Affiliates 37companies Japan Kikkoman Corporation Foods Manufacturing and Sales ● Kikkoman Food Products Company ● Kikkoman Beverage Company ● Nippon Del Monte Corporation ● Manns Wine Co., Ltd. ● Kikkoman Soyfoods Co. ● Heisei Foods Company ● Edogawa Foods Company Europe ● Hokkaido Kikkoman Company Foods Manufacturing and Sales ● Takara Shoyu Co., Ltd. ● KIKKOMAN FOODS EUROPE B.V. (KFE) (Netherlands) ● Nagareyama Kikkoman Company ● KIKKOMAN TRADING EUROPE GmbH (KTE) (Germany) ● Terra Vert Corporation ▲ Higeta Shoyu Co., Ltd. Foods Wholesale ▲ Riken Vitamin Co., Ltd. ● JFC INTERNATIONAL (EUROPE) GmbH (JFCEU) (Germany) ● JFC DEUTSCHLAND GmbH (JFCDE) (Germany) Foods Wholesale ● JFC (UK) LIMITED (JFCUK) (United Kingdom) ● Pacific Trading Co., Ltd. ● JFC FRANCE S.A.R.L. (JFCF) (France) ■ JFC AUSTRIA GmbH (JFCAT) (Austria) Others Others ● Kikkoman Business Service Company ● JFC RESTAURANT GmbH (JFCR) (Germany) ● Kikkoman Biochemifa Co. ■ KIKKOMAN MARKETING ● Sobu Logistics Corporation & PLANNING EUROPE GmbH (KMPEU) (Germany) ■ KIKKOMAN EUROPE R&D LABORATORY B.V. (KEL)  (Netherlands) ● Sobu Service Center Inc. ■ Kikkoman Marketing Center Co. Oceania Foods Manufacturing and Sales  and 2 other companies ■ Kikkoman Restaurant, Inc. ● KIKKOMAN AUSTRALIA PTY. LIMITED (KAP) ■ Kikkoman Direct Co.  (Australia) ▲ Kibun Fresh System Co., Ltd. Foods Wholesale  and 14 other companies ● JAPAN FOOD CORP(AUST)PTY LTD (JFC(AUST))  (Australia) ■ JFC NEW ZEALAND LIMITED (JFCNZ)  (New Zealand) 1 4 Financial Highlights ●Net Sales (Millions (Millionsofofyen) yen) 500,000 500,000of yen) (Millions 500,000 413,938 413,938 412,649 412,649 400,000 400,000 413,938 412,649 400,000 300,000 285,690 285,690 283,463 283,463 283,239 300,000 283,239 300,000 285,690 283,463 283,239 200,000 200,000 200,000 100,000 100,000 100,000 00 2007 2007 2008 2008 2009 2009 2010 2010 2011 2011 (FY) (FY) 0 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 (FY) ●Operating Income/Recurring Income (Millions (Millionsofofyen) Operating yen) OperatingIncome Income Recurring RecurringIncome Income 25,000 (Millions 23,854 23,854 25,000of yen) 22,388 Operating Income Recurring Income 25,000 23,85422,388 21,085 20,368 21,085 20,368 22,388 20,000 20,000 17,966 19,13619,208 19,136 21,085 19,208 17,764 17,966 20,368 16,751 17,764 20,000 19,136 19,20816,751 17,966 15,242 17,764 15,242 15,000 15,000 16,751 15,242 15,000 10,000 10,000 10,000 5,000 5,000 North America 5,000 00 2007 2007 2008 2008 2009 2009 2010 2010 2011 (FY) 2011 (FY) 0 Foods Manufacturing and Sales 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 (FY) ● KIKKOMAN FOODS, INC. (KFI) (United States) ●Net Income ● KIKKOMAN SALES USA, INC. (KSU) (United States) (Millions (Millionsofofyen) yen) ● COUNTRY LIFE, LLC (CLL) (United States) 12,000 (Millions 12,000of yen)11,447 11,447 12,000 11,447 Asia Foods Wholesale 8,000 8,000 8,602 8,602 8,602 7,770 7,770 8,983 8,983 8,983 Foods Manufacturing and Sales ● JFC INTERNATIONAL INC. (JFC) (United States) 8,000 7,770 ● KIKKOMAN (S) PTE LTD (KSP) (Singapore) ● JFC INTERNATIONAL (CANADA) INC. (JFCI) (Canada) ● KIKKOMAN TRADING ASIA PTE LTD(KTA)(Singapore) ● JFC DE MEXICO S.A. DE C.V. (JFCM) (Mexico) 4,000 4,000 2,746 4,000 2,746 ● DEL MONTE ASIA PTE LTD (DMA) (Singapore) 2,746 Others ● SIAM DEL MONTE COMPANY LIMITED(SDM)(Thailand) 00 ■ KIKKOMAN MARKETING AND PLANNING, INC. (KMP) 2007 2007 2008 2008 2009 2009 2010 2010 2011 (FY) 2011 (FY) ■ Del Monte Foods (Xiamen) Co., Ltd. (DMX) (China)  (United States) 0 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 (FY) ▲ PRESIDENT KIKKOMAN INC. (PKI) (Taiwan) ■ KMS SERVICE INC. (KMS) (United States) *As of March 31, 2009, TONE Coca-Cola Bottling Co., Ltd., was removed from the scope of Kikkoman’s consolidated accounting. ▲ K UNSHAN PRESIDENT KIKKOMAN BIOTECHNOLOGY ■ KIKKOMAN USA R&D LABORATORY, INC. (KUL) This change will affect business results starting in FY2012. CO., LTD.(KPKI) (China)  (United States) ▲ President Kikkoman Zhenji Foods Co., Ltd.(PKZ)(China) and 8 other companies and 2 companies in South America Foods Wholesale ●Net Sales by Business Segment (FY2012) ● JFC HONG KONG LIMITED (JFCHK) (China) ▲ JFC-Sheng Yuan Hong (Beijing) Trading Co.,Ltd. (JFCBE) Overseas OverseasFoods Foods Domestic DomesticFoods Foods  (China) Wholesale Wholesale Manufacturing Manufacturing 31％ 31％ and andSales Sales Others 52％ 52％ ■ KIKKOMAN SINGAPORE R&D LABORATORY PTE. LTD. (KSL) (Singapore) Overseas OverseasFoods Foods Manufacturing Manufacturing Domestic  and 18 other companies DomesticOthersOthers and Sales and Sales 3％3％ 14％ 14％ ●Operating Income by Business Segment (FY2012) Overview(as of March 31, 2012) Eliminated Eliminatedor or Date of Establishment: December 7, 1917 companywide companywide Head Offi ce: 250 Noda, Noda-shi, Chiba 278-8601, Japan Overseas OverseasFoods Foods 2％2％ Phone: +81-4-7123-5111 Wholesale Wholesale Domestic 23％ DomesticFoods Foods President and CEO: Mitsuo Someya 23％ Manufacturing Manufacturing Paid-in Capital: ¥11,599 million and andSales Sales Number of Employees: 5,316 20％ 20％ Overseas OverseasFoods Foods Number of Group Companies:62 Manufacturing Manufacturing Domestic DomesticOthersOthers (includes consolidated subsidiaries and equity-method subsidiaries and affi liates) andandSales Sales 9％9％ 46％46％ Note: T he data refers to Kikkoman Corporation except for “Number of Employees” and “Number of Group Companies.” Figures in “Net Sales by Business Segment” do not include transactions between segments. 5 2 Corporate Citizenship Since its establishment, Kikkoman has The basics of our Management Principles are always regarded a connection with society as that we carry out our day-to-day business being of great importance. This attitude is activities in a reliable and trustworthy reflected in our Management Principles. manner and that we contribute to the Now that we have come to supply a variety of realization of rich and healthy food products and services to customers in more lifestyles through our products and than 100 countries worldwide, we recognize services. In addition, we aim to fulfill our that our responsibilities to global society responsibilities as a public entity and have grown together with the growth of our contribute to society through activities business. We aim to become a company that is that are unique to Kikkoman. We believe that valued by people around the world and we the cumulative pursuit of each and every one will continue to implement activities that of these activities is our corporate social are aligned with our Management Principles. responsibility. Kikkoman Corporate Citizenship Framework 6 7 Kikkoman Group Corporate Citizenship Report 2012 社会性報告 Environmental Report 8 En vironm ental Man agemen t In keeping with its Environmental Philosophy, the Kikkoman Group strives to ensure its corporate activities are compatible with the natural environment while working to preserve the global environment and build a recycling-based society. Environmental Preservation System The Kikkoman Group has established the General information and technologies of importance to Environment Preservation Committee as the the entire Group. decision-making body with responsibility for environmental preservation throughout the Group. The President and CEO of Kikkoman Corporation serves as the chairperson of the Committee, whose responsibilities include drawing up, implementing, and managing the Medium and Long-Term Environment Policy. The Environment Preservation Promotion Committee, whose membership includes environmental management officers from Group companies, operates beneath the General Environment Preservation Committee to manage and guide environmental preservation activities from a Group-wide perspective. Environment Preservation Committees at each Group worksite take the lead in orchestrating specific activities, while Environmental Manager Information Exchange Meetings linking major companies provide a venue for sharing 9 Medium and Long-term Environmental Preservation Goals The General Environment Preservation Committee adopted the following Mediumand Long-term Environmental Preservation Goals in FY2012 Medium and Long-term Environmental Preservation Goal 1 Preventing Global Warming 【Objectives】 1) To reduce total CO 2 emissions at major domestic companies at least 15% from FY2006 levels by FY2013 2) To reduce CO 2 emissions per unit of production at major domestic companies and major overseas manufacturing companies at least 1% year-on-year Medium and Long-term Environmental Preservation Goal 2 Reducing and Recycling Wastes and Byproducts 【Objectives】 1) To increase the recycling rate at domestic manufacturing companies and major overseas manufacturing companies to at least 99% by FY2015 2) To improve methods of recycling wastes and byproducts 3) To work actively to increase use of environmentally friendly containers and packaging materials Medium and Long-term Environmental Preservation Goal 3 Promoting Environmental Management System 【Objectives】 1) To acquire ISO14001 certification of all domestic Group facilities as a whole by FY2012 2) To actively utilize the PDCA cycle 3) To provide environmental education for employees Medium and Long-term Environmental Preservation Goal 4 Promoting Environmental Communication 【Objectives】 1) Collect and disclose environmental information 2) Undertake activities with environmental groups Kikkoman Group companies have pursued an effective program of environmental preservation activities under the management and leadership of the Environment Preservation Promotion Committee. During and after FY2013, the Group will continue to establish new objectives and conduct its business activities in an environmentally friendly manner. 10 Medium and Long-term Environmental Preservation Goal 1 中長期環境方針① Preven ting Global Warming ting To reduce emissions as effectively as possible, the Kikkoman Group manages CO2 emissions from the dual perspectives of total emissions associated with production activities and emissions per unit of production based on process management. ◇ Objectives (3) Improve efficiency in energy use Reduce reliance on grade A fuel oil and switch 1） To reduce total CO 2 emissions at major to natural gas, and use electricity more domestic companies at least 15% from efficiently to reduce the environmental loads FY2006 levels by FY2013 of operations. 2） To reduce CO 2 emissions per unit of production at major domestic companies ◇ FY2012 Review and major overseas manufacturing companies at least 1% year-on-year Reducing total emissions Total CO 2 emissions for the Kikkoman Group’s 【Scope】 major domestic companies in FY2012 fell to Objective 1）Reducing total CO 2 emissions 113,880 tCO 2 , or 78.6% of the FY2006 level. Total of 11 companies: Kikkoman Corporation; Consolidation of plants in the Nippon Del Monte Kikkoman Food Products Co.; Hokkaido Kikkoman and the conversion of boilers to run on natural Co.; Nagareyama Kikkoman Co.; Heisei Foods gas in group companies contributed to the Co.; Edogawa Foods Co.; Nippon Del Monte Corp.; reduction. Manns Wine Co., Ltd.; Kikkoman Biochemifa Co.; Kikkoman Soyfoods Co. and Takara Shoyu Co., ●Total CO 2 emissions (major domestic companies) Ltd. Objective (2) Reducing CO 2 emissions per unit of production Total of 14 companies: Kikkoman Corporation; Kikkoman Food Products Co.; Hokkaido Kikkoman Co.; Nagareyama Kikkoman Co.; Heisei Foods Co.; Edogawa Foods Co.; Nippon Del Monte Corp.; Manns Wine Co., Ltd.; Kikkoman Biochemifa Co.; Kikkoman Soyfoods Co.; Takara Shoyu Co., Ltd.; KIKKOMAN FOODS, INC. (KFI, United States); KIKKOMAN (S) PTE. LTD. (KSP, Singapore); and KIKKOMAN FOODS EUROPE B.V. (KFE, Netherlands) ◇ Initiatives Reducing emissions per unit of production CO 2 emissions per unit of production for major (1) Review and improve manufacturing processes both domestic and overseas Kikkoman Group Optimize and reduce energy consumption by manufacturing companies in FY2012 fell to consolidating factories and achieving greater 0.166 tCO 2 /ton, or 97.1% of the FY2011 level efficiency in manufacturing processes. (a decrease of 0.005 t-CO 2 /ton), meeting the objective. This was primarily due to CO 2 (2) Upgrade equipment reduction efforts by Nippon Del Monte. The When renewing equipment, switch to more entire Group will strive to lower CO 2 emissions energy-saving and thermalefficient types to per unit of production. help reduce CO 2 emissions. 11 ●CO 2 emissions per unit of production Case Studies Introduction of Waste-Heat Recovery Pump Kikkoman Soyfoods Co. At the Kikkoman Soyfoods Saitama Plant, the soy milk production process uses high-temperature steam from a boiler to sterilize the milk. Once sterilized, the milk is immediately cooled. During this cooling operation, the temperature of the cooling water used to cool the milk rises. The heat in the cooling water is then recovered using a waste-heat recovery heat pump (150 t/h, 180 kW), and used to heat the water supplied to the boiler. In effect, the water is used Waste-Heat Recovery Pump simultaneously for cooling and heating, saving an estimated 400 t-CO2 emissions annually. Inverter-Type Air Conditioning Manns Wine Co., Ltd. The shop at the Manns Wine Katsunuma Winery originally had five air conditioner units; however, they were unable to cool the shop efficiently with the many customers entering and leaving. Efficient temperature control has now been achieved by replacing these units with four new inverter-type air conditioner units and installing a dividing wall between the shop and the museum display section. As a Inverter-Type Air result, electricity usage for air conditioning has been reduced by Conditioning 45%. Improved Thermal Efficiency Using Heat Insulation Paint Nippon Del Monte Corp. Nippon Del Monte Corp. used a heat insulating paint to coat the pasteurizer-cooler on its apple sauce line and can line. The goal was to control radiated heat from the product sterilization process and reduce energy consumption. The paint was also used to coat the roof of the entire apple sauce line, helping the interior air conditioners to function more effectively. Developed from ceramics used in the NASA space shuttle project, the paint has a powerful ability to reflect and disperse the sun’s energy. In this way, it greatly reduces the Applying heat insulating paint amount of heat that enters through the roof of the plant, improving the working environment inside. 12 Medium and Long-term Environmental Preservation Goal 2 Reducing and Recycling Wastes and Byproducts In addition to raising the recycling rate for waste products and byproducts, the Kikkoman Group is pursuing qualitative improvements in recycling in keeping with the objective of the Food Recycling Law as well as Kikkoman’s Guidelines for Containers and Packaging. ◇ Objectives Kikkoman’s Guidelines for Containers and Packaging 1) To increase the recycling rate at domestic 1. Reduce containers and packaging. manufacturing companies and major 2. Use returnable and reusable containers and overseas manufacturing companies to at packaging for our products. least 99% by FY2015 3. Consider applying shapes, designs and 2) To improve methods of recycling wastes and materials to containers and packaging that byproducts facilitate simple collection and reuse. 3) To work actively to increase use of Repackage current products in new environmentally friendly containers and containers and packaging in compliance packaging materials with the relevant laws and regulations of each country. 【Scope】 4. Make greater use of sustainable resources. Objective 1）Domestic manufacturing companies 5. Increase procurement from environmentally and major overseas manufacturing companies conscious suppliers and vendors. Objective 2）All Kikkoman Group companies 6. Use materials whose chemical compositions Objective 3）All Kikkoman Group companies and shapes have been verified as being safe to humans. ◇ Initiatives 7. Incorporate feedback from customers and information on where and how they purchase (1) Improve the recycling rate. and use our products into the development By examining causes that prevent recycling of new containers and packaging. wastes and byproducts, actively promote the 8. Develop containers and packaging with 4Rs (refuse, reduce, reuse, and recycle). universal designs to make them easy to use (2) Improve methods of recycling wastes and for a diverse range of customers. byproducts. Strive to more effectively utilize wastes and ◇ FY2012 Review byproducts, for example by optimizing production volumes, reducing material use, and Improving the recycling rate improving process yields, in order to reduce byproducts, and processing residues as well as The recycling rate for major domestic and wastes. overseas manufacturing companies during (3) Strive to adopt environmentally friendly FY2012 was 97.9%, a 2.3% improvement over containers and packaging materials FY2011’s rate of 95.6%. Sludge recycling Step up efforts to promote environmentally at Kikkoman Biochemifa’s Kamogawa Plant friendly containers and packaging materials contributed to the improvement. Going forward, under Kikkoman’s Guidelines for Containers we will redouble our efforts to achieve our and Packaging while reviewing their materials, target recycling rate of 99% (FY2015). volume, usage, and post-consumption collection and processing methods. Improving methods of recycling wastes and byproducts The Kikkoman Group is working to more effectively recycle food-related wastes and 13 byproducts, sludge, cleaning residues, and Increase use of environmentally friendly waste plastic. containers and packaging materials During FY2012, we focused on the effective During FY2012, Kikkoman Foods reduced the utilization of food-related byproducts (soy weight of its 1.8ℓ semi heat-resistant plastic sauce cake, soy sauce oil, okara [bean curd bottles from 72g to 69.5g (a reduction of about refuse], mirin cake, apple residue, grape 3.5%) by adjusting thickness of plastic and residue, seaweed extraction residue, and handles as well as lowering a product height. bonito and kelp soup extraction residues), in Also, plastic labels used for 500mℓ and 1ℓ particular by boosting reuse as feed, a Hon-Tsuyu were thinned from 50μm to 35μm. high-priority area and enhanced quality as This was made possible by improving film defined in the Food Recycling Law. materials and plastic label lines. The thinner As a result, the waste and byproduct recycling labels now have a better perforation, so it rate at major domestic manufacturing companies became easier to tear off when disposed. reached 97.9% Manns Wine adopted aluminum cans. They are suited for recycling and lighter in compared ●The waste and byproduct recycling rate to glasses, which contribute to reduce (major domestic and overseas manufacturing energies consumed during transportations. companies) Old 1.8ℓ heat-resistant bottle New 1.8ℓ heat-resistant bottle 14 Case Studies Improved Recycling Efficiency of Waste Products and Byproducts Kikkoman Group The Kikkoman Group is working to recycle and reuse waste products and byproducts. Kikkoman Food Products Company achieved 100% conversion of soy sauce cake into animal feed in FY2009. At Nippon Del Monte, 100% of the apple and tomato residue and other vegetable sludge emitted from the Nagano and Gunma Plants are recycled as fertilizer. At Manns Wine, 100% of vegetable residue, sludge, non-burnable items, cardboard and wood chips are recycled. At Kikkoman Soy Foods, 99.9% of waste is similarly recycled. The Kikkoman Group is also promoting recycling at is various overseas Group companies. Introduction of Aluminum Cans for Wine Manns Wine Co., Ltd. Manns Wine Co., Ltd. became the first major wine brewers in Japan to use aluminum cans in February 2012, with the launch of its new “LA LA VIN” series. This has made it easier to handle the product during distribution as well as during consumption. At the same time, it has realized environmental benefits in terms of package recycling and lower energy requirements for transportation. In recycling, the new packaging can easily be separated into the components of “aluminum” and “label,” and allows the use of existing aluminum recycling systems. In terms of transportation, the weight difference between a 300 mℓ aluminum can (approximately 20 g) and an equivalent glass bottle (approximately 270 g) add up to a 44% reduction in overall product weight. A rough calculation shows that this will allow an additional 13,272 cans to be loaded onto a 10 t truck, a transport efficiency improvement of 87% that helps to reduce energy use. Aluminum Cans 15 Medium and Long-term Environmental Preservation Goal 3 Promoting Environmental Management System The Kikkoman Group has acquired ISO14001 certification of all major domestic facilities as a whole. We will build a more efficient Group-wide environmental management system and implement more sophisticated environmental management. ◇ Objectives (3) Provide environmental education for employees Offer training for new and mid-level employees 1) Acquire ISO14001 certification of all to give them a global and ecological perspective major domestic Kikkoman Group facilities as well as an understanding of the importance as a whole by FY2012 and promote the system. of environmental preservation, and to motivate 2) Step up use of the PDCA (Plan-Do-Check-Act) them to work to address related issues. Provide management. highly specialized training for environmental 3) Provide environmental education for managers and administrators. employees. ◇ FY2012 Review 【Scope】 Objective 1) Acquisition of ISO14001 Kikkoman Corp.; Kikkoman Food Products Co.; The Group has worked to acquire ISO14001 Kikkoman Beverage Co.; Kikkoman Business certification of all major domestic Group Service Co.; Nagareyama Kikkoman Co.; Hokkaido facilities as a whole and obtained the Kikkoman Co.; Heisei Foods Co.; Edogawa Foods certification in June, 2011. Going forward, Co.; Nippon Del Monte Corp.; Manns Wine Co. the Group will pursue the better environmental Ltd.; Kikkoman Biochemifa Co.; and Kikkoman management by enhancing the internal Soyfoods Co. communication and continuously improving this Objective 2) system. Applies to all Kikkoman Group companies. Objective 3) Applies to all Kikkoman Group companies. ◇ Initiatives （1）Acquiring ISO 14001 certification of all major domestic Group facilities as a whole Work to acquire certification for all facilities and promote the system through specific activities in each workplace. (2) Perform internal audits Establish objectives and policies concerning environmental preservation activities from a Group-wide perspective, put the Group on a footing that facilitates the exchange of information while regularly reviewing the results of worksite efforts to meet objectives and follow policies, and leverage these activities to improve the environmental ISO14001 Certification management system. Continue to conduct internal environmental audits of domestic and overseas group companies. 16 ●ISO14001 推進組織図 KC=Kikkoman Corp. KF＝Kikkoman Food Products BC＝Kikkoman Biochemifa SF＝Kikkoman Soyfoods Case Studies Environmental Education for Contractors and Suppliers Nippon Del Monte Corp. Nippon Del Monte holds regular conferences with its contractors about reducing environmental loads. In FY2012, the company held two conferences at its Nagano Plant with contractors who have large environmental loads. At the Gunma Plant, Del Monte Nippon conducted an explanation of environmental initiatives for its plants to 10 maintenance-related contractors, and asked for their cooperation. At the head office, the company held explanation meetings about ISO14001 for the contracted building management and transportation companies. The Gunma Plant, Nippon Del Monte 17 Mediumand Long-term Environmental Preservation Goal 4 Promoting Environmental Communication The Kikkoman Group strives to facilitate the mutual sharing of information in an effort to practice environmental preservation more effectively by disclosing such information to stakeholders and soliciting their views and opinions. We also work closely with environmental groups so that we can bring the Group’s information, technologies, and experience to bear on environmental preservation activities. ◇ Objective ◇ Initiatives 1) Collect and disclose environmental information. (1) Collect and disclose environmental information. 2) Undertake activities with environmental Compile and publish the Corporate Citizenship groups. Report, the Environmental Accounting, and the Environmental Preservation Activities Case 【Scope】 Book. Hold seminars and give presentations at All Kikkoman Group companies exhibitions and tradeshows. (2) Undertake activities with environmental groups. Work in partnership with industrial, governmental, and educational groups as well as NPOs to undertake various activities. Take steps to strengthen the collection of information related to the preservation of biodiversity. ◇ FY2012 Review Principal environmental communication programs undertaken during FY2012 18 Case Studies Contribution to Preservation of Singapore’s Natural Environment KSP As part of its 25th anniversary, Kikkoman (S) Pte Limited (KSP) made a donation of S$1 million to a project called Kingfisher Lake. The man-made lake was created in a section of Singapore’s Gardens by the Bay, a national park being developed by the Singaporean government. The theme of the project is the ability of aquatic plants to purify water. The lake project provides residents and travelers with a green space, and is designed to showcase Singapore’s concept of striving to coexist with nature. It has been designed with special biotope features such as functions for cleaning of the water by aquatic plants, nutrient enrichment of the water, and nurturing of aquatic creatures. The Singaporean government awarded KSP with a “Nature Heritage Tree”* at a ceremony for promoting beautification and greenery, in recognition of the company’s contribution to the greening of Singapore. *Nature Heritage Tree・・・The 80-year old Rain Tree is planted close to the top of Fort Canning Hill. At the base of the tree a plaque reads, “The heritage tree is dedicated to Kikkoman in appreciation of their support for the Garden City Fund.” Environmental Lecture for Persons of Malaysia Environmental Department KC In September 2011, 20 people involved in environmental preservation in Malaysia visited Kikkoman to hear an explanation about the Kikkoman Group’s environmental preservation policy and examples of its activities, to ask questions, and to take a tour of the site. This event was part of a training course in technologies for preventing environmental damage in Malaysia, organized by the Environmental Personnel Development Center through the Japan International Cooperation Agency (JICA). The goal was to broaden participants perspectives by having them learn about cases of environmental preservation in Japan. Kikkoman agreed to provide a part of the schedule for the visitors’ time in Japan at the request of the Environmental Personnel Development Center. 19 Environmental Risk Management In addition to ensuring compliance with environmental laws and regulations, the Kikkoman Group strives to reduce environmental risk as part of its daily operations by observing voluntary management standards. ◇Principal Environmental Risk Management (5) Black Mold Pollution Prevention Trees, roofs, and walls of houses in the The Kikkoman Group’s main approach to vicinity of soy sauce and mirin factories could environmental management includes the become darkened due to the presence of Aureo following components: basidium, a microbe that propagates through the intake of alcohol and whose presence can (1) Water Pollution Prevention generate a black pigment on material surfaces. We establish voluntary standards and pay In consideration of local residents’ particular attention to the maintenance of potential reactions to such infestation, wastewater quality and prevention of river Kikkoman Group hermetically seals the source water pollution, as we use and discharge large of emissions, installs cleaning devices on air volumes of water in our manufacturing and ducts, and recovers alcohol content from cleaning processes. discharged gases in order to prevent the microbe from spreading to residential areas. (2) Manual for the Proper Disposal of Industrial Wastes We sort industrial waste before disposal, work to reduce industrial waste as little as possible, and pursue recycling. In Japan, we contract the collection, transfer, processing, and disposal of industrial waste to licensed service providers. We compiled the Kikkoman Manual for the Proper Disposal of Industrial Wastes and strive to ensure that waste is disposed of in an appropriate manner. (3) Noise, Vibration, and Odor Prevention In an effort to prevent noise, vibration, and odors, we have been installing quieter machines and soundproof/sound-absorbing walls in our plants. Noise and vibration levels are regularly monitored along the boundaries of our plants to ensure that they do not exceed the levels prescribed by local community regulations. (4) Air Pollution Prevention In addition to observing regional regulations on the concentrations and total amounts of sulfur oxides (SOx), nitrogen oxides (NOx), and soot and particulate emissions, we seek to control these emissions by establishing voluntary standards at each of our plants. 20 Case Studies Wastewater Treatment at Gunma Plant Nippon Del Monte Corp. At Nippon Del Monte’s Gunma Plant, wastewater emitted from the manufacturing process is treated using the active sludge method. In the process, high-temperature wastewater flowing into the regulating tank caused a problem because the rising water temperature in the tank reduced the ability of the system to treat wastewater. To lower the temperature of the wastewater, the heat in the wastewater of the tank was exchanged with well-water. In another initiative, the recovery fluid from the line that had been directly discarded as wastewater was temporarily stored in Stock Tank and fed little by little to the wastewater treatment process, thereby reducing fluctuations in the wastewater load. These measures have improved the wastewater treatment system at the plant. Stock Tank Preventing Black Mold Pollution Kikkoman Group At Kikkoman Group brewing plants for manufacturing soy sauce, mirin , wine and other products, alcohol is fermented from yeast. This alcohol can sometimes leak out during the process, giving rise to microbes that live on it, and emit black pigment. While it has been shown that these microbes do not affect human health, they can attach themselves to some of the buildings and trees around a plant, making them black. The Kikkoman Group has taken steps to control the causes of these microbes and is promoting measures to prevent black pollution. Open fermentation tanks at each plant have been replaced with sealed type, and alcohol is recovered from within the exhaust gas, and the Group monitors the level of alcohol in the air around the plants. Large Fermentation Tanks (Sealed type) 21 Energy, Resource and Discharge Flows The Kikkoman Group is striving to reduce the environmental loads of its operations by controlling the consumption of energy and materials on production lines, making manufacturing processes more efficient, and developing more readily recyclable containers and packaging for its products. ◇Environmental Products Lifecycle Management 【Scope】 The Kikkoman Group manufactures and sells an The data presented in this diagram applies to assortment of products, including soy sauce, the following 13 companies: Kikkoman Food soy sauce derivative products, beverages, Products Co.; Hokkaido Kikkoman Co.; ketchup, wine, and soymilk, etc. to customers Nagareyama Kikkoman Co.; Heisei Foods Co.; both within and outside Japan. In the process Edogawa Foods Co.; Nippon Del Monte Co.; Manns of manufacturing these products, we consume Wine Co., Ltd.; Kikkoman Biochemifa Co.; not only raw materials but also energy, water, Kikkoman Soyfoods Co.; Takara Shoyu Co., Ltd.; and packaging materials; and we discharge KIKKOMAN FOODS, INC. (KFI, United States); solid, liquid, and gas wastes. KIKKOMAN (S) PTE. LTD. (KSP, Singapore); and The Kikkoman Group strives to minimize the KIKKOMAN FOODS EUROPE B.V. (KFE, Netherlands). environmental loads of its manufacturing activities by seeking to consume less energy, water, and materials in manufacturing processes; improve efficiency in manufacturing and energy use; and reduce wastes. We also attempt to reduce the environmental loads of products after consumption by developing and using more readily recyclable containers and packaging materials such as glass and plastic bottles and cartons. ● Energy, Resource and Discharge Flows for FY2012 The numbers shown in the diagram are based on what we have reported in our environmental accounting for FY2012. *The recycling rates for plastic bottles and glass bottles and the collection rate for cartons reflect action by customers. These figures have been calculated based on information published by respective trade organizations for FY2011. 22 Environmental Accounting The Kikkoman Group quantifies and assesses from multiple perspectives the costs and benefits of its operations in relation to environmental preservation. This helps us pursue efficient environmental preservation practices. ◇Environmental Accounting Scheme ◇Environmental Accounting for FY2012 【Scope of reporting】 Kikkoman Food Products Co. including Hokkaido Kikkoman Co., Nagareyama Kikkoman Co., Heisei Foods Co., Edogawa Foods Co.; Nippon Del Monte; Manns Wine Co., Ltd.; Kikkoman Biochemifa Co.; Kikkoman Soyfoods Co.; Takara Shoyu Co., Ltd.; Kikkoman Foods, Inc. (KFI, United States);Kikkoman (S) Pte. Ltd. (KSP, Singapore); Kikkoman Foods Europe B.V. (KFE, Netherlands) . 【Reporting Period】 April 1, 2011 March 31, 2012 23 ◇FY2012 Review Environmental preservation investments Environmental preservation investments in FY2012 totaled ¥503 million, a reduction of ¥142 million from FY2011. The decline was primarily due to the completion of the higher pollution mitigation investments associated with addition of a new filling facility at Kikkoman Food Products’ Noda Factory. Environmental preservation expenses Environmental preservation expenses in FY2012 totaled ¥2,253 million, an increase of ¥94 million from FY2011. The increase was primarily due to an increase in resource recycling expenses related to industrial waste at Kikkoman Food Products. Environmental preservation benefits Environmental preservation benefits in FY2012 totaled ¥49 million, a reduction of ¥88 million from FY2011. The decline was primarily due to a fall of market price of CO 2 in the Nikkei-JBIC Carbon Quotation Index, a decline from \1,471.5/t-CO 2 in FY 2011 to 431.3 円/t-CO 2 in FY2012. Ignoring the conversion to the monetary value, the CO 2 emissions of the environmental preservation benefits in FY2012 totaled 131,799t-CO 2 , an increase of 37,902t-CO 2 from 93,897t-CO 2 in FY2011. For detailed information about the method used to estimate environmental preservation benefits and a complete environmental accounting report, visit our website. URL: http://www.kikkoman.co.jp/csr/ 24 Kikkoman Group Corporate Citizenship Report 2012 Social Report 25 Fo r Our Custom ers In addition to providing safe and high-quality products through product quality assurance activities, we utilize feedback from customers in initiatives to improve customer satisfaction. ◇ The Kikkoman Group’s Approach to development stage to ingredient production Safety and Peace of Mind sites, processing, manufacturing, sterilization, product packaging, and labeling based on Food The Kikkoman Group considers the safety of the Sanitation Act and Act for Standardization and products and services it provides to be our Proper Labeling of Agricultural and Forestry highest priority. In order to supply safe Products. We also examine product patentability products to our customers, we rigorously along with trademark and related regulations, examine quality assurance based on corroborative and the Quality Assurance Committee only evidence in every process, from ingredient approves the manufacture of a new product after selection to the final product stage, as part it passes examination. of a robust food safety system. わかりやすく適切な情報を提供す At the same time, we emphasize providing ◇ Systems for providing safety to customers customers with products that inspire peace of mind. At the Kikkoman Group, we believe that The Kikkoman Group Quality Assurance System peace of mind comes from building relationships of deep trust by communicating the safety of Following its October 2009 conversion to a our products in an easy-tounderstand manner. holding company based organization, the In short, we strive to improve customer Kikkoman Group has been pursuing quality satisfaction by assuring product safety and assurance activities under the direction of customers’ peace of mind. the Kikkoman Corporation Quality Assurance Department. Quality assurance departments ◇ Quality Assurance for the Purpose of have been established at each Group company, Providing Safety and Peace of Mind and we strive to provide safe products and services that comply with all applicable laws The Kikkoman Group pursues a range of quality and reflect the principle of social fairness assurance activities conceived to provide through the activities of the Quality safety and peace of mind. Our quality assurance Assurance Committee and Group Quality examinations extend from the product Assurance Coordination Committee. お客様の声を活かす取り組みを進めています。 ●Kikkoman Group’s Quality Assurance Flow 26 Quality Assurance Committee Initiatives to Enhance the Group’s Quality Assurance System Kikkoman established the Quality Assurance Committee in 1986 with a membership consisting In order to enhance our quality assurance primarily of department heads and top activities, the Kikkoman Group Quality management in order to spearhead efforts to Assurance Liaison Committee was launched in ensure the safety of the company’s products. October, 2009. The Committee members strive to The committee was reorganized in October 2009 improve their quality assurance system through to cut across the Group horizontally, with discussions such as: issues that each company participation from managers from research and face, finding common problems among the group legal affairs departments; production companies as well as responses to the problems, administration, sales, and product actions to the current events, responses to development departments at Kikkoman Food revised laws/regulations, and sharing Products Company and Kikkoman Beverage information about incidents. Also, the Company; ingredient procurement departments committee further improves the network among and the Kikkoman Consumer Center at Kikkoman the group companies overseas to build better Business Service Company; and quality global quality assurance system. assurance departments at all Group companies. We will continue to pursue Group-wide quality assurance activities in an effort to enact Group quality policies and guidelines; address issues; and supply safe products and services that comply with all applicable laws and reflect the principle of social fairness. ● Group Quality Assurance System 27 Quality Assurance Department Investigating and Verifying Allergens In 1985, Kikkoman became one of the first food When any of the 7 ingredients legally required industry companies in Japan to establish a by the Food Sanitation Act to be listed on Quality Assurance Department. Since then, the labels as “known to cause allergic department has adopted the customer’s reactions” or any of the 18 ingredients for perspective as it conducts rigorous quality which listing is recommended are used in a assurance reviews of all processes from product, we specifically list those ingredient procurement to product sales from ingredients on product packaging. We also work the standpoint of assuring safety, legal to increase the reliability of our allergen compliance, and social fairness. Products that labeling by conducting voluntary inspections do not pass these reviews, which form the of ingredients as necessary. lynchpin of Kikkoman’s quality assurance program, are not brought to market. Kikkoman ● Ingredients legally required or Corporation’s Quality Assurance Department recommended to be listed on labels also serves as the secretariat of the Quality Assurance Committee. Working with individual Group companies’ quality assurance departments, the department strives to provide safe products and services that customers can use with confidence and peace of mind. ◇ Quality Assurance in the Product Development Phase Checking the Safety of Ingredients and Materials Made from Beef At Kikkoman, using safe ingredients and materials is a top priority in ensuring food To address the issue of BSE (bovine spongiform safety. We track country of origin information encephalopathy, commonly known as mad cow on all of our ingredients and materials and disease), we use only ingredients and thoroughly examine them for safety and legal materials made from beef that has been verified compliance, covering the following areas: as totally safe. Whenever possible, we substitute ingredients and materials that are ● Kikkoman’s Process for Verifying not made from beef. Ingredient Specifications Screening for Residual Agricultural Chemicals Kikkoman screens all domestic and imported ingredients and materials for agricultural chemicals. Since 2004, we have taken the additional step of ensuring food safety by conducting voluntary checks for residual agricultural chemicals contained in farm produce, such as grains, beans, vegetables, 28 and fruits, to verify that their usage is on the salinity, water activity, pH level, and properly controlled. In response to the other characteristics of specific food Positive List System for Agricultural Chemical products. In addition, we use indicator Residues in Foods under the revised Food bacteria to check if they grow in the target Sanitation Act, we developed efficient and products as well as measuring the heat accurate analytical methods in 2007 to enable resistance of bacteria targeted for about 300 commonly used agricultural chemicals sterilization in each food product. to be analyzed at once, facilitating more After these examinations, we determine effective and reliable testing for pesticide sterilization conditions based on judgments residues. concerning compatibility with the manufacturing plant, containers, and other Use of Non-GMO (Non-genetically Modified) Produce aspects of production. Kikkoman uses IP-handled*1 non-GMO marudaizu*2 Container and Packaging Safety and Pursuit of (soybeans), a raw ingredient for soy sauce. Better Designs Regular voluntary inspections ensure that such raw ingredients and materials are non-GMO All containers and packaging that we use are products. We have also shifted to non-GMO checked to ensure that their materials and products for our defatted soybeans. designs meet the standards of the Food Sanitation Act as well as our own internal *1 Marudaizu: Soybeans that are not defatting safety guidelines. Also, based on the concept -processed. of “Universal Design,” we continue improving *2 IP (identity preserved) handling: IP handling designs of our products. controls the sorting of non-GMO produce and GMO produce in each phase of production, distribution, and 【Examples of the Improved Designs】 processing so that the two types of produce are never ・Soy sauce caps. mixed. Documentation verifies the details of these controls. The soy sauce plastic bottles have newly designed easy-to-open cap.（①） Microbial Treatment ① In order to protect our products from microbes and ensure safety, Kikkoman carefully develop our products and give special consideration to proper sterilization and filling conditions. There are a variety of microbes that affect food products and the range of microbe Also, the seal inside the cap has a better resistance derives from food characteristics. structure that allows users to hold it more Therefore, it is very important to adopt easily.（②）。 sterilization methods that have been optimized ② to provide maximum safety on a product-by -product basis. We target bacteria for sterilization depending 29 ・Plastic Labels specialized knowledge extending beyond the With improved perforations, it has become plant in which they work provide comprehensive easier to remove the plastic labels from and regular monitoring of food product hygiene, bottles. equipment management, and other aspects of operation at the Group’s Japanese and ・500mℓ Fresh Soy Sauce Package overseas manufacturing plants. The cap of 500mℓ Fresh Soy Sauce has hexagonal shape, so it is easier to hold and open the cap. Original Equipment Manufacturers （ OEM ） manufacture a certain amount of the Kikkoman ・1.8ℓ Bottle with Handle products. In order to assure quality of those The handle has a better shape, so it is easier products, we monitor the OEM based on our OEM to hold. assessment sheet that consists of 70 questions. 把手を軽量化するとともに、指のかかりをよくし The questions cover the following categories: ◇ Quality Assurance in the Production Phase administration, building / facilities, sanitation in general, raw materials, Quality Assurance in the Production Phase production, foreign materials, examination, and shipping. Before conducting site audits, In order to supply customers with safe, the OEM are requested to implement self high-quality products, the Kikkoman Group has assessments. By comparing results of audits received certification under the ISO9001 and self assessments, we strive to further international quality control standard for improve our quality assurance system. most of its Japanese plants. Furthermore, Kikkoman Food Products Company manages its Traceability production activities in accordance with a proprietary quality control system that Traceability refers to a condition that combines (1) an ISO9001 system (an products and raw materials used for specific international model for quality control products can be traced by their manufacturer. systems for products and services), (2) GMP Kikkoman pursues better traceability by standards (standards for equipment and work strictly controlling raw materials, procedures at facilities that produce food production and shipping. products), and (3) the HACCP concept (a In order to achieve a faster tracing result, mechanism for preventing food accidents). The major production facilities conduct company also strives to manufacture safe simulation trainings and confirm procedures. products by conducting quality inspections as necessary during each production process. Radioactive Materials Monitoring Quality Control Kikkoman developed the quality assurance system from early on to deliver safe products Kikkoman has put in place a system for and services to our customers. Soon after the monitoring quality control to ensure that Great East Japan Earthquake, the Kikkoman customers can use Kikkoman brand products with Group deployed various group-wide efforts to confidence and peace of mind no matter where deal with radioactive materials. in the world they are. Managers with We confirm safety of raw materials by 30 monitoring results of radioactive material in advertisements based on internal guidelines tests conducted by the Japanese government and and other guidance. At the same time, local governments. Also, we confirm safety of Kikkoman’s Intellectual Property Department our products by collecting and checking plays the lead role in checking as necessary information from our suppliers regarding place that copyrights held by other companies are not of origin and control systems. When necessary, being violated. we analyze raw materials and water through our own analyzer or external institutions and ensure safety. As necessary, raw materials, water, and products are examined for radioactive contamination at Kikkoman facilities or at external institutions to ensure safety. At Kikkoman, Environment & Food Safety Analysis Center and/or each plant undertake the examinations by using germanium semiconductor detectors or scintillation spectrometers. ◇ System for Providing Peace of Mind to Customers Complying with laws concerning product labeling and truth in advertising Kikkoman rigorously checks the veracity of product labeling and advertising to verify compliance with the JAS (Japan Agricultural Standard), the Food Sanitation Act, the Act against Unjustifiable Premiums and Misleading Representations, the Fair Competition Codes, the Health Promotion Act, the Liquor Tax Act, the Pharmaceutical Affairs Act, and industry guidelines. If any problem is detected, we immediately take corrective action before products reach the market to ensure that our product labeling complies with these laws and regulations. Ensuring Social Fairness Working from the customer’s perspective, Kikkoman verifies the absence of excessive or inappropriate claims on product packaging and 31 Appropriate Product Labeling special-grade soy sauce under the JAS (Japan Agricultural Standard) classification system Kikkoman strives at all times to provide clear, of special grade, upper grade, and standard easy-to-understand labeling from the levels of quality. customer’s perspective, going beyond legal (8) Nutritional information requirements as necessary. Indicates nutrient content so that customers can choose the products they buy based on appropriate information. (9) Disposal method Indicates how the container should be recycled at the time of disposal. Communicating information through our website Product label for Extra Fancy Whole Beans Soy Sauce The Kikkoman Consumer Center’s website (1) “Tokusen (extra grade)” features a Q&A section based on questions and Indicates that the product contains more comments from our customers as well as a umami-related compounds than special grade soy “Utilizing Customer Feedback” section that sauce. introduces examples of how products have been (2) “Whole Beans Soy Sauce” improved. We not only accept customer feedback, Indicates that whole soybeans were used as but also apply it to our corporate activities ingredients in the production of this soy sauce and communicate the results to customers product, and that defatted soybeans were not through our products and website. used. The Kikkoman Consumer Center’s website also (3) “Naturally Brewed” has a section that informs countries of origin Indicates that the product was made using of raw materials used for our major products traditional Japanese methods for slowly and products whose origins are frequently fermenting and brewing moromi mash. asked. (4) Nutrition label Contains labeling information mandated by the ◇ System to Deliver our Products in a Stable Manner JAS (Japan Agricultural Standard) and Food Sanitation Act. The Group believes that it is our social (5) Expiration date responsibility to deliver our products in a Indicates that latest date at which the full stable manner. fl avor of the unopened product can be enjoyed, Our plants constantly update their facilities assuming that it has been stored in accordance for smooth productions and each plant works to with instructions on the nutrition label. obviate any chance of the accidents, which (6) “After opening” affects our production capabilities. Indicates that the product should be kept in Also, Kikkoman works with Sobu Logistics Corp. the refrigerator after opening and used as to review the Group’s logistics on a quickly as possible. continuous basis to build a faster and more (7) JAS mark stable logistic system. Indicates that the product qualifies as The Great East Japan Earthquake affected our 32 production and logistics capabilities, and a ◇ Pursuing Customer Satisfaction supply of some of our products temporarily stopped. Both productions and logistics were Basic Approach not seriously damaged, but the Group is introducing the BCP (Business Continuity Plan) The Kikkoman Group is working to improve in preparation for the future disasters. * See customer satisfaction through initiatives also the Management Part. designed to refl ect the consumer’s perspective in order to put into practice the tenets of Kikkoman’s Promise as adopted in FY2009. In the same vein, Kikkoman is seeking to develop a shared understanding of the customer’s perspective companywide through such means as the sharing of customer information internally and employee training. The overall goal is to make customer feedback an even more integral part of the Company’s management. For Better Food Lifestyles The Kikkoman Group believes, as a food company, it is an important social responsibility to deliver products and serivices with new values and help customers enjoy better food lifestyles. In Japan, Kikkoman Food Products introduced a product with a new concept, Kikkoman Sakusaku Taberu Koubashi Shoyu. This prudoct has a distinctive feature of Umami from freeze-dried soy sauce and rich aroma of garlics and sesami oil. Kikkoman Sakusaku Taberu Koubashi Shoyu 33 Kikkoman Food Products also launched Kikkoman Delivering new and healthy food experiences Ishudemo Shinsen Shiboritate Nama Shoyu. All Soy Sauce prudycts are heat-treated except The Kikkoman Group is undertaking product Nama Shoyu. Nama Shoyu has a rich aroma and a developments and campaigns to promote health bright color, but it needs to be refrigirated of our customers through food. for sotrage. This product, however, can be In 2011, Kikkoman Food Products expanded its stored at room temperature for 90 days. Another Less Sodium Soy Sauce product line as well as feature of this product is its easy-to-squeeze introducing healthy recipes through less salt bottle. The bottle is squeezable, so it is diet campaings. Kikkoman Soyfoods also possbile to pour soy sauce drop by drop. launched a campaign to introduce soy milk recipes. In markets overseas, as well as introducing Japanese food, we also promote fusion recipes that feature both soy sauce and local ingredients. In many countries, Japanese food continues to be popular and recognized as delicious and healthy food. We hope to contribute to our customers all over the world by promoting Japanese food and soy sauce. Ishudemo Shinsen Shiboritate Nama Shoyu Kikkoman Consumer Center In markets overseas, we introduced gluten-free soy sauce in the U.S. and Europe for those who Kikkoman has established the Kikkoman Consumer are allegic to gluten. Center(KCC) to serve as the primary channel through which the Company communicates with customers. The Center strives to provide accurate, speedy, and heartfelt service to customers in accordance with a basic policy of “Speed, Precision, and Sincerity.”Questions and comments received from customers are stored in a database that is utilized companywide in order to help provide speedy, accurate service and to take full advantage of customer feedback as a management resource. Furthermore, customer feedback is summarized Gluten-Free Soy Sauce in the U.S. and shared internally with executives, managers, and supervisors nationwide in the form of weekly reports. Participation of the Kikkoman Consumer Center in the Quality Assurance Committee helps bring customer feedback to bear in our efforts to both improve existing products and develop new ones. 34 CS Improvement Committee Not all comments and suggestions received from customers can be dealt with by the Kikkoman Consumer Center alone. The Customer Satisfaction (CS) Improvement Committee, chaired by top management and counting departmental officers as its members, takes care of inquiries that fall beyond the scope of the Center’s responsibility in order to improve the Company’s products and services. ●Customer inquiries at the KCC FY Total comments inquiries suggestions 2007 22,446 1,432 19,249 1,765 2008 24,343 1,234 20,958 2,151 2009 25,552 1,711 21,869 1,972 2010 25,839 1,665 21,271 2,903 CS2011 向上委員会 32,450 1,823 27,929 2,698 ● How Kikkoman Acts on Customer Feedback 35 For Our Employees In addition to respecting the diversity of employees and supporting their efforts to improve their skills, we strive to create safe, pleasant workplaces that facilitate employee self-fulfillment. ◇ Basic Approach ◇ Respect of Human Rights The Kikkoman Group has a basic policy of The Kikkoman Group Code of Conduct states, “We “respecting every employee’s human rights” respect personalities and individualities, in the belief that “a company can fare well foster mutual understanding, and stamp out only when its employees lead healthy and happy discriminations based on prejudices. We make lives.” Under this policy, we believe in fair evaluations in the treatment of employees’ potential, avoid practicing or employees.” Managers at the Kikkoman Group condoning unlawful discrimination, ensure submit an annual promissory letters to the CEO equal opportunity, and pursue fair employment pledging their compliance with the Kikkoman practices. Group Code of Conduct. In 2001, Kikkoman announced our participation in the United Nations Global Compact(UNGC). ●The Number of Employees March, 2012 The ten principles of the UNGC set forth in the Global Compact’s “Human Rights” and “Labor Standards” sections are fully compatible with those stipulated in our Labor Agreement, Working Regulations, and Labor-Management Joint Declaration. Training for the Managers Every year, Kikkoman conducts a management training program for all managers. This training program focuses on roles and measures as managers and helps managers to develop further understanding of compliance including human rights, employee management, and proper performance reviews. In FY 2012, 177 managers ●New hires (non-consolidated basis) took this program. Preventing Harassment Kikkoman regards sexual harassment and abuse of power (“bossing”) as human rights violations and prohibits them in the Company’s working regulations. Human resources departments are responsible for preventing and handling harassment issues, and we have opened counseling offices at major worksites. Furthermore, we continue to raise employee awareness of this issue through activities such as training programs for *Includes temporary employees. managers and supervisors. 36 ◇ Emphasizing Fairness and Employee Human Resource Development for the Global Market Independence in Human Resources The Kikkoman Group is working to develop human Kikkoman’s human resources system employs an resource for the global market. This means to ability based grading process that comprises help our employees develop skills that can be several subsystems, including human resources displayed both in domestic and foreign markets. utilization, training and education, The set of skills includes communication, performance reviews, and compensation. Each leadership, intercultural adjustments, employee’s individual performance is reviewed expertise, physical strength, and optimism. under a goals-and-objectives system whereby As a part of our program, we have training at supervisors conduct interviews with their staff. overseas affiliates for a select group of Prior to the interviews, all supervisors are mid-career employees. We also employ foreign required to receive assessor training in order staff to develop diversity. They nurtured as to ensure the fairness of reviews. We strive to candidates for managers. support employees’ individual career objectives through self-assessment, a Career Development Program (CDP), and a Career Challenge Program, all of which allow employees to develop their skills and make their own decisions when applying for new positions within the Company. Moreover, to ensure fairness across the entire human resource management system, we have created a Human Resource Management Verification Committee comprising labor union and management representatives, and the Human Resources Department periodically conducts interviews of individual employees in offices and plants in Japan and overseas to monitor implementation of the system. ● Human Resource Management System 37 ◇Nurturing Better Work Environment Work-Life Balance ●Flexible Work Arrangements (Kikkoman) In order to support and encourage employee efforts to achieve a healthy balance between rewarding work and fulfilling private lives, Kikkoman has implemented a set of Company -developed support programs designed to create an environment whereby employees can make the most of their abilities in a healthy and vital manner. We introduced childcare leave 10 years before its enactment in law and family care leave 20 years before its enactment in law. In 2009, Kikkoman received Kurumin certification from the Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare, authorizing the company’s use of the Kurumin logo in accordance with the Act on Advancement of Measures to Support Raising Next-generation Children and recognizing it as a “company that actively works to support raising next-generation children.” 38 ◇ Diversities Maintaining Sound Labor-Management Relationships Promoting Employment of People with Under the Labor-Management Joint Declaration, Disabilities which was announced in 1998, Kikkoman has established and maintained sound laborKikkoman believes in creating a work management relationships based on mutual trust environment in which people with disabilities and respect. Additionally, the Company has can keep their jobs based on the principle of adopted a union shop labor agreement. “normalization” the concept of creating a society in which able-bodied and disabled Socially Responsible Corporate Pension Management people can live and work together on equal terms. Accordingly, we are actively creating Kikkoman has a contract-based defined-benefit barrier-free work environments for all pension plan to ensure the stability of our employees. In FY2012 the proportion of corporate pension fund in response to changes employees with disabilities at Kikkoman in employees’ needs and employment conditions Corporation and Kikkoman Food Products Company in Japan. was 1.88 and 1.71 respectively. In 2006, Kikkoman became a signatory to the United Nations Principles of Responsible Continued Employment System Investment. The move marks the Company’s commitment to fulfilling its social In 2001, Kikkoman introduced the Senior responsibility by incorporating environmental, Employment System, which is available to those social, and corporate governance issues into who retire at age of 60. This system made it investment decision-making and stock possible to provide opportunities for the ownership practices with respect to its object employees to exercise their skills as pension fund. well as passing on the skills of experienced workers to younger workers. Promoting Opportunities for Female Employees Kikkoman promotes work environment that female employees can work on a long-term basis and expand opportunities for participation. In order to help female employees come back to their work after childbirth, Kikkoman introduced the Childcare Leave 10 years before its enactment in law. In FY 2012, 34 employees including male workers applied for this program. Since the program was introduced, 396 employees in total have applied. 39 ◇ Improving Employee Skills and Fostering Kikkoman offers a broad range of selfCareer Development improvement training programs for employees, including courses at business schools; “My The Human Resources Development Vision Challenge Training,” which allows trainees to select from several courses; correspondence In keeping with the Human Resources courses; and e-learning courses. Through these Development Vision, Kikkoman’s educational educational and training opportunities, we programs are designed to offer support so that support employees’ autonomous skill-building individual employees take joy in learning, and career development efforts. work to strengthen their specialized skills, and continue to grow through lifelong ●Number of participants in major learning. self-improvement training programs in FY2012 The Human Resources Development Vision aims to foster the development of professionals for Number of the 21st century by helping employees develop Training Program Participants skills and grow personally so that they can participate in their jobs in an engaged and Correspondence courses 670 energetic manner and contribute to organization innovation. Business school scholarships 28 Scholarships for business Training Programs management courses at 7 Kikkoman offers tier-based training for groups universities such as new employees and employees in management positions. In order to enhance the My Challenge Training 223 Group’s synergy, collective training programs with affiliates have been taken place. ●Human Resource Development Chart (Kikkoman) 40 ◇Safe and healthy Work Environment Safety and Health standards, the Group held two joint meetings that the domestic affiliates Kikkoman believes that providing a safe and discuss and share safety and health issues. pleasant work environment for employees is a Through these efforts, the Group is working to fundamental principle of corporate management. prevent future accidents. Accordingly, the Company’s Safety and Health ●Changes in frequency rate*1 (non-consolidated) Committee, made up of labor and management representatives, plays a central role in implementing its occupational safety and health management system (OSHMS). Promoting Safety and Health Activities Kikkoman has set up the Central Safety and Health Committee to review and determines policies and key objectives for companywide safety and health initiatives, and its FY2008 FY2009 FY2010 FY2011 FY2012 decisions are made known throughout the *1 Frequency rate: An indicator of the frequency of Company. Daily safety and health activities disasters/accidents, represented by the number of casualties are undertaken through local safety and health resulting from occupational accidents per 1 million work hours. committees. In addition, monitoring teams ●Changes in severity rate*2 (non-consolidated) consisting of labor and management representatives conduct periodic monitoring inspections at both the central and local levels, and the Company works to assess the causes of safety and health risks and take corrective action. There were seven minor accidents and two accidents resulting in work stoppages during FY2012. We remain committed to strengthening efforts to eliminate accidents by applying FY2008 FY2009 FY2010 FY2011 FY2012 risk assessment practices companywide. *2 Severity rate: An indicator of the severity of disasters/accidents, In order to further improve the Group’s represented by the amount of work time lost due to occupational accidents requiring absence from work per 1,000 work hours. ●Safety and Health Management Organization (Kikkoman) 41 Efforts by the Affiliates Overseas Encouraging Employee Physical and Mental Well-being The Group is working on improving safety and Kikkoman provides medical supports to health system at our affiliates overseas. At employees. Employees who need re-examination KFI, KFE, and KSP, each company forms their following their medical check-ups can receive Safety and Health Committee and strives to advice from medical nurse. The employees can improve effectiveness of the safety and health also access a health databank to check their system. records of health checkup. All of our affiliates overseas provide with the Kikkoman has opened a 24-hour telephone lectures and/or trainings regarding safety and hotline for health and medical questions in health as well as using proper protections partnership with an outside institution as while performing job functions. The affiliates part of its ongoing commitment to helping share accident reports with the Foreign employees maintain good physical and mental Operations Department at Kikkoman Corp. to health. In 2011, in addition to regular medical avoid repeating the similar accidents. checkups, Kikkoman offered dental checkups, VDT check, and immunization against influenza TOPICS by Kikkoman General Hospital. Kikkoman works with professional institutions KFI-Wisconsin, the main soy sauce factory in to run our mental health program for our the United States, holds monthly meetings of employees and their families. By introducing the Safety and Health Committee. The plant the Kikkoman Mental Health Manual, we strive manager, the vice president in charge of human to create an environment to prevent mental resources, six production managers, eight health problems. Kikkoman also developed a representatives of the respective corporate guideline that describes how to treat organizations, and two representatives from employees when they return to work from a leave the secretariat are the members of this for mental health reasons. committee. During the meetings, participants report accidents including close calls and promote awareness to avoid accidents. Queries ◇ Future Subject and opinions from employees are also discussed and convey safety and health information from The Group’s employees are becoming more and the secretariat. In FY 2012, KFI-Wisconsin began a weekly more diversified as we expand our business viewing of videos related to risk prediction fields and countries of operation. Recognizing training. our business environment is changing rapidly, the Group strives to create better work environment based on the respect of human rights as well as developing diversified human resources. the Safety and Health Committee at KFI-Wisconsin 42 For Our Shareholders and Investors Kikkoman strives to enhance transparency in management through timely and appropriate Information disclosure and to secure earnings through sustainable growth that enables appropriate distribution of profits. ◇ Timely and Appropriate Disclosure of Information ◇ Shareholder Return and Internal Reserve Kikkoman Corporation places importance on Kikkoman Corporation considers the dividend information disclosure and investor relations policy as one of our key management issues. In (IR) activities that focus on fairness, this area, our basic policy is to reward timeliness, and expeditiousness. In addition shareholders through consistent distribution to holding IR meetings not only in Japan, but of profits backed by strong consolidated also in the United States and Europe, we financial performance, while using funds to promptly disclose a variety of IR information invest in strengthening its corporate on our website for the benefit of investors who foundation and future businesses. As a result are unable to participate in the meetings. of this approach, the dividend for FY2012 is In FY2012, we held three meetings with ¥15 per share. management and seven factory tours for In addition, we have a special benefit plan analysts and institutional investors. We also for shareholders aimed at deepening their held three seminars introducing the Company understanding of the Kikkoman Group’s for individual investors. products and encouraging their ongoing Going forward, we remain committed to pursuing support. From a long-range perspective, we activities designed to promote a better intend to deploy internal reserves in ways understanding of our businesses while bringing that create robust corporate value. Future feedback from shareholders and investors to plans include investments in expanding our bear. international operations, streamlining production facilities, conducting research ◇ Promoting Open General Shareholders’ Meetings and development for new businesses, opening and expanding markets to cultivate new demand, To encourage higher attendance, Kikkoman and pursuing strategic investment activities. Corporation schedules the annual general ●Composition of shareholders (as of March 30, 2012) shareholders’ meeting to avoid clashing with the most common dates for other companies’ meetings. Moreover, we deliver the convocation notice and related documents to shareholders three weeks in advance in order to allow careful review of the agenda. We also send an English-language convocation notice to overseas shareholders. Additionally, we allow shareholders to vote online, and we participate in a voting platform for institutional investors to make it more convenient for shareholders to exercise their voting rights. 43 ◇ Credit Ratings Credit ratings provided by rating agencies serve as a means of better understanding Kikkoman’s financial soundness. Kikkoman gives credit ratings an important role in financial strategy out of recognition that they reflect the manner in which capital markets evaluate the Company’s performance and creditworthiness. Kikkoman Corporation was given a rating of A (single A stable) by Rating and Investment Information, Inc., in Japan as of March 30, 2012. We are striving to maintain and further improve our ratings. 44 Working with Suppliers We strive to observe fair business practices and develop good working partnerships with suppliers through a variety of means. ◇ Conducting Fair Business Transactions strives to carry out fair transactions with suppliers while building mutually beneficial As outlined in our Code of Conduct, Kikkoman’s partnerships. selection of and transactions with suppliers are fair and based solely on vendors’ ability ◇ Ensuring Ingredient Quality to provide good quality, prices, and services, and not on the personal preferences or Kikkoman works closely with suppliers to considerations of employees. Internal ensure ingredient quality. For example, when Procurement Guidelines provide a basis for the procuring raw farm produce, we track its management system that ensures that this production history and conduct voluntary policy is followed. We have in place a system checks for residual agricultural chemicals. for reviewing proposed business with new When procuring organic crops or nonGMO suppliers against evaluation criteria and for produce as raw materials, we strive to maintain reevaluating existing suppliers on a regular and improve the quality of procured materials basis. Both of these measures ensure fair through such measures as obtaining Certified evaluation and provide opportunities for new Organically Grown Food Certificates, suppliers. To help minimize potential risks, investigating the country of origin, and we procure ingredients and raw materials from conducting joint inspections on IP handling. multiple suppliers. ◇ Developing Good Working Partnerships with Suppliers At Kikkoman, the Kikkoman Business Service Company Purchasing Department plays a key role in maintaining close communication with suppliers in order to build and maintain fair and good relationships. Whenever we enter into basic contracts with suppliers for new transactions, we explain our compliance policies and share compliance concerns with them. Moreover, we brief subcontractors on Inspecting the Harvest in the U.S. Japan’s Act against Delay in Payment of Subcontract Proceeds, Etc. to Subcontractors ◇ Environmental Considerations in Procurement each time an agreement is signed. We also work closely with suppliers through ◇ Centralized Group purchasing the container and packaging procurement process to develop environmentally friendly Kikkoman Business Service Company’s containers. In FY2008, we formulated Purchasing Department carries out centralized Guidelines for Containers and Packaging (see purchasing by combining the purchasing page 25) to illustrate the Group’s commitment functions of domestic manufacturing companies to reducing the environmental impact of such as Takara Shoyu, Higeta Shoyu, Nippon Del containers and packaging while improving Monte, and Kikkoman Soyfoods. The Department customer satisfaction. We ensure that our 45 suppliers understand the Guidelines, and we work with them to reduce the environmental impact of their products. In addition, we ask suppliers of ingredients and raw materials to deliver them in packages that generate less waste and require that their delivery truck drivers shut down engines while unloading at our facilities. In FY2012, we made these requests of some 1179 suppliers. When ordering ingredients and raw materials, we work with suppliers and Sobu Logistics Corporation to streamline truck deliveries and reduce the environmental impact of our operations, for example by using trucks returning from product delivery runs to pick up shipments from suppliers. 46 As a Member of Local Communities Kikkoman promotes a variety of social activities designed to support society at large, including community development programs and efforts to contribute to the promotion and development of food culture. ◇ Basic Approach volunteers help administer these programs. Education and Fostering of Youth Under the management principle of “becoming Kikkoman provides financial support to several a company whose existence is meaningful to international exchange programs for the global society,” the Kikkoman Group promotes education and fostering of young people in a management that places a great value on our cooperation with various public organizations relationship with local communities. We hope and educational institutes, both in Japan and to contribute to build a society that abroad. corporations and communities build mutual-beneficial relationships. Contributing to Develop Safe Communities The Group undertakes activities designed to Kikkoman works to help communities develop support society at large, primarily in the safer environments by supporting firefighting field of food and health. We are also working operations and disaster-prevention activities to foster an appreciation and a preservation as well as conducting traffic safety of Japanese food culture as well as maintaining campaigns. harmony with world food cultures. Community Outreach Programs ◇ Major Social Activities Kikkoman conducts community outreach programs, including by holding events that highlight Supporting Employees’ Volunteer Activities local features, participating in traditional community events, and opening our facilities Kikkoman encourage our employees to engage in to the public. volunteer activities. We have introduced programs, such as the matching donation Donations program, the community service program, and Kikkoman donates in fields related to our the volunteer leave programs, business activities, for example by providing Kikkoman also facilitates nationwide products to a Food Bank organization, offering volunteer activities in which employees can educational support, and practicing easily participate. They include collecting environmental preservation. We also donate to ruined postcards and used books in support of a large-scale disaster relief fund. NGOs and NPOs, holding fund-raising drives for charity, assisting with sales of charity ◇ Social Activities in FY2012 merchandise, and holding charity events to promote interaction with NGOs. Cooking Experience Programs for Parents and Children Programs to Provide Hands-on Experiences Since FY2004, the Kikkoman Group has held cooking experience programs for parents and Kikkoman provide hands-on programs designed to children in communities where factories are raise elementary school children’s and their located. The theme of these programs is parents’ interest in food and nature, as well “food,” and they are designed for families as programs held in conjunction with NGOs and to stimulate their interests in good diet and NPOs to encourage participants to think about local communities. international cooperation. Employee During FY 2012, we held programs such as: the 47 Soy Sauce Experience Program in Hokkaido in world” through various activities and study July, 2011, Houtou Cooking Program in with their hosts, and we expect them to take Katsunuma in November, 2011, and the Soy Sauce advantage of their experience to contribute to Experience Program in Takasago in March, 2012. international exchange in Visit to the Kikkoman is committed to continuing to offer Canadian embassy the future. hands-on cooking programs for parents and children in order to stimulate interest in Donating Products to a Food Bank nature and society by learning, cooking, and eating together. The Kikkoman Group has been donating products to a Food Bank organization* since FY2010 to be distributed free of charge to individuals needing food assistance in Japan and the U.S. *Food Bank organizations receive food products from food-related companies that are free of quality problems and distribute them free of charge to social welfare facilities that need support. the Soy Sauce Experience Program in Takasago ◇ Promoting and Developing Food Culture Sponsoring English Education in Noda: Kikkoman strives to promote and develop Education and Fostering of Youth international food culture through lectures, cooking seminars, and operation of foodKikkoman has supported English-language related facilities. education in Noda since FY2008 as part of an effort to increase children’s communication Cooking Seminars at Tokyo Head Office skills and enable them to make a contribution on the global stage when they grow up. At Tokyo Head Office’s KCC Hall, Kikkoman holds seminars in the form of lectures, Supporting the YFU Exchange Student Program: demonstrations, and tastings featuring Education and Fostering of Youth culinary experts, chefs, and other food professionals as instructors. Content spans The Kikkoman Group has supported an exchange multiple genres such as Japanese food culture student program offered by the international and cuisine, world food culture and cuisine, exchange organization Youth for Understanding and food and health. During FY2012, we offered (YFU) every year since 1979 through its the following seminars: Kikkoman Scholarship program. In FY2012, the program brought 17 high-school Understanding Japanese food culture and cuisine students from the United States to Japan on ・Japanese Cuisine Glossary short-term home-stays and sent 4 Japanese ・Regional Cuisine seminar high-school students to the United States on ・Seasons and Events seminar long-term home-stays. Participating students ・Japanese Cuisine Basics seminar expanded their potential as “citizens of the 48 Understanding world food culture and cuisine Soon after Noda Shoyu Co., Ltd., a predecessor ・National Food Culture and Cuisine of Kikkoman Corp., was formed in 1917, the Noda seminar Hospital became Kikkoman’s private hospital ・Introduction to World Foods seminar in 1918. In 1973, the Noda Hospital was renamed the Kikkoman General Hospital. Learning about food and health In order to further contribute to the society ・Healthy Foods seminar and the local community through providing ・Ingredients from a Professional’s medical services, Kikkoman Corp. began Perspective construction of a new hospital in March, 2011. ・Enriching Your Dining Room Table The construction has completed in June, 2012, seminar and began operation in August, 2012. Research on Food Culture with a Focus on Soy Sauce and Dissemination of Related Information The Kikkoman Institute of International Food Culture, located at the Noda Head Office, conducts research on food culture with a focus on fermented seasonings and soy sauce, collects information related to food, and holds forums and seminars on related subjects. The Center also contributes to international exchange and amalgamation of food culture by the New Kikkoman General Hospital making research findings and collected information and materials available to the general public at libraries and exhibitions and on its website. ◇ Kikkoman General Hospital In Noda city, Chiba, the Kikkoman Group runs a hospital, the Kikkoman General Hospital. The hospital plays a significant role in providing medical services in the local community. Since the soy sauce brewing began in Noda city in the 17th century, the soy sauce business had a mutual-beneficial relationship with the local community. The origin of the hospital dates back to 1862 when a clinic was founded for workers at the breweries and their families. The clinic expanded over time and re-established as the Noda Hospital in 1914 in Kami-Hanawa in Noda City. 49 ◇ Principal Social Activities Overseas environmentally friendly water purification system that utilizes the nature within the park, North America： such as aquatic plants. The lake is expected to contribute to solve water problems in Kikkoman Foods Foundation Inc. Singapore. Kikkoman Foods Inc.(KFI), our soy sauce manufacturer in the United States, established a charitable foundation, Kikkoman Foods Foundation Inc. KFI has donated to organizations such as local educational institutions and disaster relief activities. In 2010, KFI conveyed a portion of the plant’s land to the local government—the City of Walworth—free of charge for the purpose of constructing a new city hall. Contributions to local communities by the Thai plant Siam Del Monte Company Ltd. (SDM) produces processed vegetable and fruit products. SDM has provided seed for corn, which serves as a stable source of income for farming households, in order to support agricultural promotions in the Trat Province of Thailand, where the plant Food bank initiatives in the United States is located, and in the northeastern region of Kikkoman Sales U.S.A. (KSU), our sales company Thailand. In order to have more households in the United States, conducts a social participate in this program, farming trainings activity called “Kikkoman Kares.” Since 2010, were available to them as well. as part of this initiative, KSU has donated When a serious flood occurred in 2011, more food products to the food bank organizations than 2,000 cases of our products were donated in the United States, contributing an through local governments for people who were equivalent of about 200 tons in 2011. affected by the disaster. Asia： Europe： Water purification project in Singapore Water quality improvement project in the KIKKOMAN (S) PTE. LTD. (KSP), our soy sauce Netherlands manufacturer in Singapore, supports the Since 1997, Kikkoman Foods Europe B.V. (KFE), construction of Kingfisher Lake, located our soy sauce manufacturer in the Netherlands, inside “Gardens by the Bay,” a garden in has supported a water quality improvement Singapore. Kingfisher Lake has an project for Zuidlaardermeer (Lake of 50 Zuidlaren) in Groningen, the Netherlands. between Japan and China through food. A unique aspect of this project is that the water purification mechanism utilizes natural resources. A vast water purification area is located next to the lake, and water from the lake is pumped to the designated area by a windmill. After the water in the area becomes purified by aquatic organisms and microbes, the waster gradually returns to the late. The windmill, which was installed by the Kikkoman’s support, was named “Kikkoman Windmill.” Special lecture at Shanghai University The Kikkoman Group opened an authentic Japanese restaurant, “Murasaki,” in the Japanese industry pavilion at Expo 2010 Shanghai China. Students from Shanghai Messages from students at University participated in operating this Shanghai University restaurant; eight students worked as service staff, and five students served as cooking Other regions: assistants. These students significantly The Kikkoman Group has conduced social contributed our smooth operation. In October activities in the regions where we don’t have 2010, the Kikkoman “Murasaki” fund was our affiliates or facilities. Those activities established between the College of Foreign include supporting an establishment of Languages at Shanghai University and the elementary schools in Cambodia or supporting Kikkoman Group. This fund provides activities to prevent AIDS in South Africa. scholarships and training programs in Japan for students of high scholastic standing. “Kikkoman Special Lecture Presentations” were held twice in 2011 at the university; the topics of the lectures were “Interactions of Food Culture” and “Security and Safety of Food.” When our managing director in charge of international business, Horikiri, presented his lecture on April 15, 2011, at the beginning of the lecture, messages of sympathy and encouragement for the people affected by Great East Japan Earthquake were given by the students through an official of the university. We will work to promote cultural interchange 51 Impact of the Great East Japan Earthquake and the Response of the Kikkoman Group The Kikkoman Group has worked to support people and communities affected by the earthquake ◇ Basic Approach Fundraising: Funds contributed by officers and employees at Group companies in Japan and The Great East Japan Earthquake was an overseas were donated to the Japanese Red Cross unprecedented disaster. The people affected Society. by the earthquake were hurt physically and mentally. Due to the great impact, it requires ◇ Reduction of Electricity Consumption during Summer a great investment of time for reconstruction. In response to the power shortage in the summer The Group is supporting the restoration 2011, Kikkoman launched Summer Time efforts over the mid to long term especially Electricity Saving Project headed by General in the field of Food and Health. Manager of the Corporate Planning Division and conducted a set of efforts. ◇ Response Immediately After the Earthquake At each production facility, nighttime operation and staggered shifts were put in Employee Safety and Continuation of Operations place to avoid the peak time of electricity consumption. R&D department worked a rotating In the immediate aftermath of the Great East schedule and offices took electricity saving Japan Earthquake of March 11, 2011, the Group measures such as setting the temperature of air worked to deal with the effects of the disaster conditioners higher than usual, turning off by forming a task force headquarters in lights and computers. accordance with its Disaster Response Manual. As a result, all facilities subject to the The task force determined that our priorities project successfully lowered the maximum were: electricity consumption (during July 1st, 2011 to September 22nd, 2011 from 9am to 8pm week day) (1) ensuring the safety of employees, by more than 15% in comparison to the same (2) shipping products to the extent possible period in the previous year. (3) Continuing corporate operations Not only the facilities in the East Japan but also Kikkoman Takasago Factory in Hyogo In addition to assessing the status of Prefecture joined this project and lowered the affiliates and related departments, the Group electricity consumption by more than 15% in the undertook a series of measures. same period. In addition to these efforts at company, Immediate Support Programs considering 30% of the total power is consumed at household, Kikkoman encouraged employees to Donations: Kikkoman donated ¥100 million to reduce electricity consumption at home. the Japanese Red Cross Society and ¥10 million to the city of Minamisoma in Fukushima Prefecture. Products: Working with the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Fisheries, we supplied aid in the form of about 350,000 products (worth ¥70 million), including canned foods, beverages, and soy milk. 52 ◇ Supporting the Affected Regions Cooking Classes in Temporary Housing Facilities The Kikkoman Group is supporting Team Omusubi, a project organized by a NGO, the Soul of Tohoku. The Group supports the project financially as well as offering Kikkoman products. The project invites professional cooks to the temporary housing facilities and holds cooking classes. Participants can enjoy cooking and delicious dishes that they cook together. The purpose of this project is to help people in the temporary housing facilities have lively communication and develop better communities within the facilities. Volunteers from Kikkoman join the cooking class programs as cooking assistants. This project started in October, 2011 and 8 classes had been held by March, 2012. 28 Kikkoman employees including 17 volunteers joined the classes. チームおむすびの様子 Date ・ Number of Participants Place 1 2011/10/30 ・ 35 Temporary Housing Site at Jonan Junior High school 2 2011/11/23 ・ 300 Health Administration Center in Kesen-numa 3 2011/11/27 ・ 30 Community Center in Tajirizawa 4 2011/12/19 ・40 Temporary Housing Site at former Orikabe Elementary School 5 2012/ 1/21 ・ 25 Temporary Housing Site at Kesen-numa City Gymnasium 6 2012/ 1/28 ・ 50 Temporary Housing Site at former Sen-Maya Junior High school 7 2012/ 2/26 ・ 12 Asu-wo-Kangaeru Hall in Motoyoshi-cho 8 2012 /3/2 ・ 30 Community Square Sarai in Naka-minato 53 IPPO IPPO NIPPON Project ◇ Continuing Efforts to Support the Affected Areas The Kikkoman Group participates in IPPO IPPO As conditions in the affected areas change, our NIPPON Project by Keizai Doyukai. programs have to shift to expected activities. This project provided training equipments to The Kikkoman Group will communicate with the high schools as well as donating to National people in the affected areas and support them Universities in the affected regions. in ways that Kikkoman can do best. TOPICS Many of residents from Futaba Town in Fukushima Prefecture stay in Kisai City of Saitama Prefecture because of the nuclear accident at Fukushimna Dai-ichi Nuclear Powerplant. Kikkoman invited to visit the Noda Factory of Kikkoman Food Products to participate in a factory tour on October 9, 2011. Thirty-eight persons participated, and after the factory tour, they were guided to Shimizu Par, an athletic park located near the factory. 54 The Kikkoman Group’s Shokuiku Activities The Kikkoman Group considers Shokuiku (food education) to be the special responsibility of companies involved with food and food products. Since announcing the Shokuiku Commitment in May 2005, we have developed a program rooted in our business and based on our Shokuiku Framework, which derives from a three-part philosophy. ◇ Key Shokuiku Activities Website Featuring Foodand Health-related Information Programs to stimulate interests in learning food and diet Kikkoman’s website features an extensive range of foodand health-related information, Hands-on Soy Sauce-making Program including the most recent news about our Soy Sauce Factories at Kikkoman Food Products Shokuiku activities, seasonal recipes, and offer tours for elementary school students to educational content for children. learn and experience how soy sauce is made. In FY 2012, we had 268 tours for 15,537 Kikkoman’s Shokuiku Framework visitors. Kikkoman Soy Sauce Academy Kikkoman employees visit elementary schools to teach students about food and diet as part of the Kikkoman Soy Sauce Academy. Schools use this program as part of their integrated study time to provide an opportunity for students to think about the importance of food and what it means to enjoy eating while simultaneously learning about the ingredients and techniques used to make soy sauce. During FY 2012, 7,727 students participated in 244 sessions at 109 schools. The Kikkoman Academy Kikkoman employee volunteers visit elementary and middle schools to talk about how soy sauce is made. During FY2012, 28 presentations were given to 1,307 students. Factory Tours to Experience the Soy Sauce Brewing Process Kikkoman offers tours of soy sauce factories in Japan and Manns Wine Co., Ltd.’s wineries. We offered hands-on soy sauce-making programs for elementary schools and other organizations a total of 209 times during FY 2012, accommodating 291,166 visitors. 55 TOPICS New lecture courses related to “Shokuiku,”“Soy Milk,” and “Tomato” were added to Kikkoman Soy Sauce Academy from 2012. The “Kikkoman Shokuiku Lecture Series” will provide lectures on the subject of Shokuiku through instructors of the nonprofit organization, the Nippon Shokuiku Instructor Kyokai(*) (Japan Shokuiku Instructors’ Association). Kikkoman employees will give “Kikkoman Soy Milk Lectures” to provide basic knowledge about “soy milk” as well as to educate people about nutrients, ingredients, and a balanced diet. Furthermore, the “Del Monte Tomato School” was launched to visit schools and provide lectures to second grade elementary students, with the purchase of tomato seedlings provided in the Del Monte Teaching Materials. The employees of Del Monte Japan play a role as Dr. Tomato and his assistants and provide students with information about tomatoes and how to grow them. (*) A specified non-profit corporation established for the purpose of training instructors in “Shokuiku,” with the All Japan Culinary School Association as the parent organization. 56 Kikkoman Group Corporate Citizenship Report 2012 Management Report 57 Co mplian ce We’re striving to put in place a framework to ensure compliance with laws and social norms and to raise employee awareness of such compliance. ◇ Basic Approach The Kikkoman Group believes the concept of “compliance” does not only mean legal responsibility but also company rules and social norms. In other words, we have to respond to the trust and expectations of society to ensure compliance. As our business grows and operations become more globalized, we are striving to strengthen our compliance framework. Pocket reference card ◇ The Kikkoman Group Code of Conduct and Compliance System ◇ Compliance Framework The Kikkoman Group adopted the Kikkoman Group Submitting promissory letters of compliance Code of Conduct in August 2002 to codify with the Kikkoman Group Code of Conduct standards for the attitude and conduct expected of Group employees. Since then, Group In addition to handing out pocket reference companies have worked to ensure that the Code cards outlining the Code of Conduct to all is well understood and thoroughly practiced by Group employees in Japan and requiring the all personnel. cards to be carried by employees at all times, The Kikkoman Group Code of Conduct, which Kikkoman is working to ensure that employee commits Kikkoman employees to contribute to conduct throughout the Group accords with the development of society by fulfilling their corporate ethics and a law-abiding spirit by work responsibilities with a sense of ethics requiring all managerial employees holding and mission, consists of six principles: positions of director, corporate officer, or Securing of safety and symbiosis with global manager/supervisor within Kikkoman as well as environment, Business activities with fair and the presidents of Group companies to submit an free competition, Business information annual promissory letters to the CEO pledging disclosure and promotion of communication, their compliance with the Kikkoman Group Code Respect for human rights and establishment of of Conduct. During FY2012, 321 individuals happy working environment , Observation of signed the letters. laws and regulations in Japan and abroad and maintenance of social orders, an Positive Companies whose management is required to social action program. In an effort to ensure submit promissory letters of compliance with that the Code is well understood and thoroughly the Kikkoman Group Code of Conduct practiced throughout the Group, Kikkoman has Japan: created English, Chinese, German and French Kikkoman Corp.; Kikkoman Food Products Co.; versions of the text. Kikkoman Beverage Co.; Kikkoman Business Service Co.; Kikkoman Biochemifa Co.; Nippon Del Monte Corp.; Manns Wine Co., Ltd.; Pacific Trading Co., Ltd.; Heisei Foods Co.; Edogawa 58 Foods Co.; Hokkaido Kikkoman Co.; Nagareyama outside lawyer, a shared Group hotline that is Kikkoman Co.; Terra Vert Corp.; Takara Shoyu managed by Kikkoman Corporation’s Legal & Co., Ltd.; Kikkoman Soyfoods Co.; Sobu Compliance Department, and hotlines at Logistics Corp.; Sobu Service Center Inc.; individual companies that are set up as needed. KMC; Kikkoman Restaurant, Inc.; Nihon Shoyu Reports are received via dedicated phone line, Co., Ltd.; and Kikkoman Direct Co., Ltd. fax, email, and dedicated post office box. When Overseas: the office receives a report, an internal KFI, KSU, JFC, KMP, KFE, KTE, JFCEU, KAP, and investigation is conducted, corrective others measures taken, and feedback provided to the individual who initiated the report. The Corporate Ethics Committee Corporate Ethics Committee Regulations stipulate protection for whistleblowers The Kikkoman Group Corporate Ethics Committee against any backlash or disadvantage that was formed to ensure that the Kikkoman Group might result from submission of a report. Code of Conduct is put into practice. With a During FY 2012, the Group Corporate Ethics total of six members including two outside Hotline received 13 calls and taken care. experts such as attorneys as well as directors and officers from Kikkoman Corporation, the Compliance Audits Committee has overall responsibility for studying and implementing policies related to The Kikkoman Group conducts compliance audits compliance. by the Internal Auditing Department and the During FY2012, the Committee met a total of 11 Legal and Compliance Department of Kikkoman times. Additionally, Committee members met Corp.. Kikkoman Group legal affairs officers with standing auditors to exchange information and other personnel also conduct compliance once in each half of the fiscal year. fact-finding missions to overseas Group companies. In FY 2012, the mission visited KFI, The Group Corporate Ethics Hotline KMP and Country Life, LLC. This mission will be held in FY 2013 and work to strengthen The Kikkoman Group has established a Group compliance awareness throughout the Group. Corporate Ethics Hotline and made it available for use by all employees of Group companies in Japan. Employees are made aware of the hotline through repeated notices in individual companies’ internal notices, Group newsletters, and training sessions. We have worked to expand the system by opening the hotline up to use by part-time and temporary employees starting in FY2008 and by all domestic Group company employees following our transition to a holding company-based organization in October 2009. Compliance mission at the KFI-Wisconsin Plant The Group Corporate Ethics Hotline consists of an external hotline that is managed by an 59 Liaison Conference of the Kikkoman Group Compliance Promotion In FY 2012, Liaison Conference of the Kikkoman Group Compliance Promotion was set up. Conference members are assigned at Kikkoman Corp. and other 20 affiliates in Japan and promote compliance awareness. ●Group Corporate Ethics Hotline 60 ◇ Compliance Survey the ten principles of the UNGC with several indicators attached to each question. This Kikkoman conducted a compliance survey with tool was designed to help the UNGC signatories the goal of making a comprehensive assessment measure their performances. of, and improving, the state of domestic Group In FY2012, the Group began translating the companies’ compliance. The survey elicited tool to Japanese and introduced to 21 responses from each company to a total of 94 affiliates in Japan and 13 affiliates overseas. questions addressing topics such as Based on the result, the Group will improve our management, general affairs and accounting, performance. manufacturing and products, environmental responsibility, and labor management. No 【Scope】 serious compliance infractions were Japan： discovered at the target Group companies as a Kikkoman Food Products Co.; Kikkoman Beverage result of the survey. Going forward, Kikkoman Co.; Kikkoman Business Service Co.; Kikkoman will work to enhance the Group compliance Biochemifa Co.; Nippon Del Monte Corp.; Manns system, including by conducting surveys Wine Co., Ltd.; Pacific Trading Co., Ltd.; linked to its compliance audit efforts. Heisei Foods Co.; Edogawa Foods Co.; Hokkaido Kikkoman Co.; Nagareyama Kikkoman Co.; Terra 【Scope】 Vert Corp.; Takara Shoyu Co., Ltd.; Kikkoman Kikkoman Food Products Co.; Kikkoman Beverage Soyfoods Co.; Sobu Logistics Corp.; Sobu Company Co.; Kikkoman Business Service Co.; Service Center, Inc.; KMC; Kikkoman Restaurant, Kikkoman Biochemifa Co.; Nippon Del Monte Inc.; Nihon Shoyu Co., Ltd.; Kikkoman Direct Corp.; Manns Wine Co., Ltd.; Pacific Trading Co., Ltd.; and Higeta Shoyu Co. Ltd Co., Ltd.; Heisei Foods Co.; Edogawa Foods Co.; Overseas： Hokkaido Kikkoman Co.; Nagareyama Kikkoman KFI、KSU、JFC、KFE、KTE、JFCEU、KAP and others Co.; Terra Vert Corp.; Takara Shoyu Co., Ltd.; Kikkoman Soyfoods Co.; Sobu Logistics Corp.; ◇ Compliance Education and Awareness Programs Sobu Service Center Inc.; KMC; Kikkoman Restaurant, Inc.; Nihon Shoyu Co., Ltd.; To raise employee awareness of and enforce Kikkoman Direct Co., Ltd.; and Higeta Shoyu Co. corporate ethics based on the Kikkoman Group Ltd Code of Conduct, we provide compliance education during training sessions for all ◇ United Nations Global Compact Self Assessment Tool managers/ supervisors and newly appointed In FY2012, the Kikkoman Group conducted a self managers/supervisors. Compliance education is assessment based on the United Nations Global also incorporated into training programs for Compact (UNGC) Self Assessment Tool. all new recruits and new mid-career hires. The tool was developed a group of institutes In addition to these efforts, Legal & in Denmark and the UNGC Office introduces the Compliance Department at Kikkoman Corp. visits tool on their affiliates and holds compliance lectures. In website. http://www.globalcompactselfassessment. 2012, the lectures were held at 16 affiliates org/ and about 2800 employees attended 【Scope】 This tool has 45 questions, which are based on Japan： 61 Kikkoman Food Products Co.; Kikkoman Beverage Co.; Kikkoman Business Service Co.; Kikkoman Soyfoods Co.; Kikkoman Biochemifa Co.; Heisei Foods Co.; Edogawa Foods Co.; Nagareyama Kikkoman Co.; Hokkaido Kikkoman Co.; Sobu Logistics Corp.; Nippon Del Monte Corp.; KMC; Terra Vert Corp.; Nihon Shoyu Co.; Pacific Trading Co., Ltd.; Takara Shoyu Co. Overseas: KFI、KMP、Country Life Compliance Handbook In order to develop a firm understanding of compliance, Kikkoman Corp. issues the Kikkoman Group Compliance Handbook in October, 2011 and distributed to 4,000 employees in Japan. This handbook describes specific examples of non-compliance. By giving visible examples, we are trying to raise awareness as well as practice at workplace. The Kikkoman Group Compliance Handbook 62 Co rporat e Gove rna nce We continue to improve and enhance our corporate governance system while upgrading our internal control system to ensure that operations are conducted in an appropriate manner. ◇ Basic Approach speed decision-making and business execution. In October 2009, we shifted the Group’s We believe that responding effectively to the management system to a holding company changing business environment and maximizing structure. Individual operational companies corporate value through the enhancement of will enhance their ability to create value in Kikkoman Group management form the true basis line with their own areas of authority and for running a company with the mandate given responsibility based on a Group management by shareholders. We also consider one of our strategy determined by the holding company, most important management priorities to be thereby maximizing the Group’s overall corporate value. executing sound governance in order to fulfill our corporate responsibilities to all stakeholders. ◇ Enhancing the Corporate Governance System ◇ Corporate Governance Framework Kikkoman Group’s decision making standard is specified in the Authorization Guidelines. The Kikkoman Corporation employs a corporate Through strict control of decision making auditor system. We strive to improve and based on the guidelines, the Group ensures enhance our corporate governance framework proper decision makings. with the aim of achieving greater management In addition, through the Administrative Rules transparency, clearly defined management and Regulations for Affiliated Companies, responsibility, speedy decision-making, and Kikkoman Corp. monitors financial and stronger management oversight. In March 2001, management conditions of its affiliates. we introduced a corporate officer system and In order to ensure these systems are transferred authority for business execution effectively working, the Group conducts to corporate officers in an effort to internal audits. In FY 2012, 20 affiliates, 76 streamline operational responsibilities and departments, and 168 offices were audited. ●Corporate Governance System (As of July, 2012) 63 ◇ Independent Outside Director and ◇ Internal Control Systems Independent Corporate Auditor Establishing an internal control system that Appointment of Outside Directors and Outside ensures proper execution of business practices Corporate Auditors In June 2002, the Kikkoman is high on our corporate agenda. Corporation appointed outside directors and Accordingly, we have been making Group-wide established the Nominating Committee and efforts to develop an enhanced framework for Remuneration Committee to achieve greater ensuring effective and efficient operations as management transparency and strengthen well as compliance with laws and regulations. management oversight. We periodically review and update the basic In fiscal 2012, three of eleven directors were policy for “Establishing an Internal Control outside directors, and two of four corporate System” that the Board of Directors adopted auditors were outside auditors. in May 2006. In order to comply with the new The role of the outside directors and outside internal controls reporting system mandated by corporate auditors is to strengthen management the Financial Instruments and Exchange Act, oversight from an objective perspective on the which went into effect in April 2008, we basis of their wide-ranging experience and established an Internal Control Committee and deep insight. In addition, the outside Internal Control Department in November 2008. directors strive to increase management To this same end, we have adopted a basic policy transparency by participating in the concerning internal controls as they relate to Nominating Committee and Remuneration financial reporting and established a Committee. structure for strengthening internal controls related to financial reporting. Directors: Noriaki Horikiri* Kenichi Saito* Koji Negishi Toshihiko Shigeyama Katsumi Amano Koichi Yamazaki Tsunao Hashimoto** Toshihiko Fukui** Mamoru Ozaki** * Representative Director ** Independent Outside Director Corporate Auditors: Takaharu Nakamura Koichi Mori Takeo Inokuchi*** Motohiko Kogo*** *** Independent Corporate Auditor 64 Framework to Promote Corporate Social Responsibility Kikkoman is working actively to promote activities related to corporate social responsibility based on our framework. ◇ Framework to Promote Corporate Social In FY 2012, based on the discussions of this Responsibility committee, Kikkoman Corp. developed and announced the Kikkoman Corporate Citizenship The Kikkoman Group believes that, in order to Framework. The committee requested the major promote corporate social responsibility, each affiliates in Japan to submit their targets to employee must understand the Group’s policies achieve the three themes of the Framework. We and do their tasks at their workplaces. Trough will work to follow up the implementations and such efforts, we work to fulfill our improve our activities. responsibilities to stakeholders by Kikkoman Corporate Citizenship Framework practicing “what we can do for society” through our business operations. In 2005, we launched a Corporate Social Responsibility Committee with members from multiple departments to promote associated initiatives. Following our transition to a holding company-based organization in 2009, we added representatives of domestic Group companies (Nippon Del Monte Corporation, Manns Wine Co., Ltd., FoodChemifa Co., Ltd., and Sobu Logistics Corporation) to the committee. The committee plays a central role in communicating and promoting CSR policies and initiatives internally, and in systematizing the diverse CSR activities that the Kikkoman Group has been carrying out with stakeholders. It also works as a driving force to continuously improve CSR-related activities through the PDCA (Plan-Do-Check-Act) management cycle. ●Framework to Promote Corporate Social Responsibility 65 Ri sk Man agemen t The Group is moving to strengthen its management systems for preventing the manifestation of various risks. ◇ Risk Management System Systematizing and sharing risk management 1. Adopting guidelines addressing various At Kikkoman Corporation, corporate officers policies and systems related to the Group’s manage the divisions and subsidiaries for overall crisis management which they are responsible so as to prevent the 2. Compiling sample manuals addressing emergence of perceived risks relating to the principal risks and sharing them among Group’s activities. We also have a Risk affiliates in Japan Management Committee in place to establish an effective risk management system and to ◇ BCP（Business Continuity Plan） respond promptly to crises that could negatively impact our business. Business Continuity Plan is a set of procedures When a worldwide pandemic of novel H1N1 and preparations to ensure, or recover, influenza struck in 2009, the Kikkoman Group continuity of key operations when disasters responded in accordance with a precompiled and serious occur. This plan involves manual. At the same time, the Risk Management identifying key operations and documenting in Committee proposed appropriate advance. The comprehensive efforts to maintain countermeasures as events unfolded, and we and/or improve the BCP to respond to the worked to minimize the effect on our business disasters and accidents are referred as the execution by assessing employee health and Business Continuity Management (BCM). taking steps to prevent infection. At the Kikkoman Groups, the Corporate Planning In October 2010, we adopted the Kikkoman Department, Kikkoman Corp., is developing the Group Risk Management Guideline. This is a BCP, which consists of the Immediate Action series of provisions addressing appropriate Plan headed by a task force headquarters and management and implementations of various the Operations Recovery Plan to continue and risks affecting the Group’s operations. We restore key operations. also compiled a series of Crisis Management Manuals as part of a larger effort crisis management throughout the Group. 66 the Kikkoman Group List of Principal Initiatives in FY2012 / Objectives in FY2013 Key Aspects Principal Initiatives in FY2012 Targets in FY2013 ・Compliance trainings held at 16 affiliates (61times in total) Continue to hold compliance trainings and visits in Japan in Japan and 6 affiliates overseas. and overseas. ・Published of the Compliance Handbook ・Launched the Liaison Conference of the Kikkoman Group Compliance Promotion Received promissory letters of compliance with the Raise awareness about the Kikkoman Group Code of Kikkoman Group Code of Conduct (321 managers signed) Conduct Compliance ・Resolved issues and developed preventive measures Raise awareness about the Group Corporate Ethics Hotline through the Group Corporate Ethics Hotline Conducted the Compliance Survey (21 affiliates in Japan) Continue to conduct the Compliance Survey and follow-up programs Conducted a test installation of the United Nations Global Conduct the United Nations Global Compact Self Compact Self Assessment Tool Assessment (21 affiliates in Japan and 13 affiliates overseas) Conducted internal audits （20 affiliates, 76 departments, 168 Audit governance of the Group affiliates in Japan offices) Corporate governance ・Appointed of Outside Directors Continue efforts to strengthen transparency and monitoring ・The Nominating Committee and Remuneration Committee of management ・Held IR meetings in Japan and overseas Provide more effective IR information ・Seven factory tours for analysts and institutional investors ・Sent feed back comments and suggestions of customers to Better Communication with customers through the Kikkoman Communication with stakeholders the CS Improvement Committee Consumer Center ・Improving communication through surveys Provided information from the viewpoint of customers such Better communication through our website to provide as countries of origin of raw materials information about food safety ・Total CO2 emissions of the Kikkoman Group’s major 1) Reduce total CO2 emissions at major domestic Responsible domestic companies in FY2012 fell to 113,880 tCO2, 78.6% companies at least 15% from FY2006 levels by FY2013 Operations of the FY2006 level. 2) Reduce CO2 emissions per unit of production at major ・CO2 emissions per unit of production for major both domestic companies and major overseas manufacturing domestic and overseas Kikkoman Group manufacturing companies at least 1% year-on-year companies in FY2012 fell to 0.166 tCO2/ton, 97.1% of the FY2011 level ・The recycling rate for major domestic and overseas 1) Increase the recycling rate at domestic manufacturing manufacturing companies during FY2012 was 97.9% companies and major overseas manufacturing companies to ・More effectively recycle of the food-related waste at least 99% by FY2015 Environmental activities products 2) Improve methods for recycling wastes and byproducts ・Increase use of environmentally friendly containers and 3) Work actively to increase use of environmentally friendly packaging materials containers and packaging materials ・Acquiring ISO14001 certification of all major domestic ・ Firmly implement policies and continue to improve Kikkoman Group facilities as a whole (June, 2011) activities ・Internal environmental audits of the Group companies ・ Implement the PDCA cycle ・Environmental education programs for the employees. ・ Provide environmental education for employees ・Conducting environmental lectures and participation in the ・ Collect and disclose environmental information Eco-Products 2011 Exhibit ・ Work with environmental organizations ・Collecting information on Biodiversity Expanding the Group collective training programs ・ lively exchanges of employees among group companies ・Programs to encourage using paid holidays ・ Develop global human resource programs ・No Overtime Day program ・ Enhance the Group human resource systems Building talent and fostering a ・Childcare Leave ・ Promote diversities positive workplace ・Implemented the Safety and Health Key Programs of ・ Create safe work environment FY2012 by the Company’s Safety and Health Committee ・Conducted the Employee Satisfaction Survey and follow-up ・ Stimulate employees' motivations activities ・Introduced the gluten-free soy sauce Product development focusing on consumer-oriented Product and service innovations ・Developed Universal Design packages ・Launched products to bring rich food experiences ・Efforts to improve the network among the group companies Improve the group-wide quality assurance system overseas to build better global quality assurance system. Food safety and quality ・Conducted OEM assessments Products/ Promoted compliance with laws concerning product labeling Product safety and consumer communication Services and truth in advertising ・Developed BCP manuals and internal systems Build and review internal systems for stable supplies Stable supplies ・Reviewed logistic systems for better and more efficient distribution Expanded less sodium soy sauce product lines and Promote new Japanese food lifestyle Delivering new and healthy food conducting campaigns to promote less sodium soy sauce experiences Held seminars in the form of lectures, demonstrations, and Hand down and promote Japanese food culture Promotion of Japanese food culture tastings at Tokyo Head Office’s KCC Hall (30 classes with 1,449 participants) ・Held 1 Food Culture Seminar and 7 lectures Communication through the Kikkoman Institute of Exchange of food cultures across ・Published Food Culture magazine International Food Culture the world Held a lecture about food culture in China Introduce Japanese food culture to foreign countries ・Kikkoman Soy Sauce Academy: 244 sessions at 109 Improve Shokuiku programs Actions for schools Global Society ・Introduced new programs of the Kikkoman Soy Sauce Shokuiku (Food education) A d ・Factory tour visitors (Kikkoman Food Company and Manns Wine) : 291,166 ・Improved factory tour programs ・Supported cooking classes at the temporary housing in the ・ Continue to support areas affected by the Great East Commitment to society through areas affected by the Great East Japan Earthquake (8 Japan Earthquake food and health classes) ・ Contribute to local communities with the new hospital ・Monetary donations to the reconstruction efforts. 67 Third-party Opinion Katsuhiro Harada Professor, Meiji Gakuin University Senior Staff Writer, Nikkei Newspapers Professor Harada has served primarily on international beats for Nikkei, working as a special correspondent in both São Paulo and New York, where he has covered the United Nations as well as such topics as non-profit organizations, corporate social responsibility, and business strategy at the so-called “base of the pyramid”. He has been a recipient of the NSK Award (presented by the Japan Newspaper Publishers & Editors Association), and he was appointed as a professor at Meiji Gakuin University in 2010. He also serves as the editor in chief of the Alterna Premium newsletter, and in the past he has served on a social business-related committee at the Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry and on a BoP-related committee at the Japan International Cooperation Agency. He is the director of the Social Business Network. His numerous published works include Striving to Be a Good CSR Company (published by Nikkei Inc.) and Borderless CSR: Moving beyond the Boundaries of Companies and NPOs (published by Dobunkan Shuppan Co., Ltd.). There appears to be a strong tendency among the official online Global Compact Self Assessment Japanese businesses to believe that those who do Tool, which consists of 45 items based on the UN good deeds unnoticed by others will most certainly Global Compact's ten principles. I trust this will be rewarded with good fortune. This seems to be the have a significant impact on other companies. Also, case with Kikkoman, a soy sauce manufacturer and Kikkoman has decided to have the UNGC logo on its representative of Japanese food culture. Since its business cards. Although this is not described in foundation, Kikkoman has recognized that it is a this year’s report, I recognize these as very public entity and has acted accordingly. diligent efforts. I am interested in Kikkoman’s However, my impression is that Kikkoman does not other efforts to promote the UNGC and expect to see trumpet its accomplishments. Although such a this reported on in future. humble attitude should, of course, be taken I would now like to address two other issues. positively, if a business wants to achieve a higher Firstly, the report’s “Principal Activities of level of awareness of its CSR activities, it must FY 2011/Targets and Plans for FY 2012”. This is communicate a certain amount of information. a good start, but I propose that Kikkoman goes a Previous reports omitted some CSR information step further. Medium-term targets should be set and entirely, as it was considered to be a basic part percentage attainment should be shown. I think that of corporate functions. The latest report, on the setting specific targets can help break the status other hand, gives detailed information about quo and guide employees towards more Kikkoman’s initiatives on environmentally forward-looking objectives. friendly containers and packaging, traceability, Secondly, I would like to mention the ISO 26000 human rights, and work-life balance. This is a sign Guidance on Social Responsibility document that of the times and reflects changes in Japanese was issued in November 2010 for the purpose of society. facilitating sustainable progress. It was shaped Last year, I made some suggestions regarding by a broad range of stakeholders from six improvements to compliance education, raising categories, comprising businesses, consumers, compliance awareness, and quality assurance of raw labor unions, governments, nonprofit materials. Responsive action was taken, and this organizations, and experts. The economic community is described in detail in this year’s report. in Japan believes that this will become a global Last year, I concentrated mostly on Kikkoman’s new standard, and it is enhancing its activities in the efforts on the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC). relevant areas. Using the document as a reference Kikkoman is known for being the first Japanese and taking action accordingly: I see this as the signatory to the Compact. For this reason, next item on the agenda for Kikkoman. Since this companies and the media have been watching is not a certification program and each company is Kikkoman’s approach. It is my impression that responsible for its own actions, it could be Kikkoman has, unfortunately, not publicized its considered a strict standard, as companies will activities sufficiently. want to avoid having their commitment called into Having said that, I do appreciate Kikkoman’s question. decision to test the company’s performance using 68 Kikkoman Group Corporate Citizenship Report 2012 2011 Contact: Kikkoman Corporation 2-1-1, Nishi-Shinbashi, Minato-ku, Tokyo 105-8428, Japan TEL: +81-3-5521-5131 http://www.kikkoman.com Published December 2011 2012
