LRN’s Communication on Progress to the United Nations Global Compact Inspiring Principled Performance that Embraces the Ten Principles Message from the CEO LRN remains honored to work with the United Nations Global Compact and its member organizations. We have just completed our second year as a Global Compact member, and we are proud of the progress we continue to make in helping the UNGC and its member organizations embed the UNGC’s ten universally accepted principles for how institutions should lead, govern and operate their organizations. In fact, this is the journey that we have been on for the past 18 years. Since 1994, LRN has embraced and pursued an ambitious purpose and mission: to help people around the world do the right thing and inspire principled performance in business. In this way, we not only support the UNGC’s ten principles, we aspire to live them in how we do everything we do: how we deliver knowledge and solutions designed to elevate the behavior of the more than 700 organizations with whom we have worked and nearly 17 million employees we have educated around the world; how we meaningfully connect with each other as colleagues; how we relate to our customers as partners; and how we contribute to the world on our journey of significance. At LRN, we help companies operationalize values and principles by integrating them into their corporate cultures and translating them into business practices and leadership behaviors. We are also a laboratory for our own beliefs and ideas, investing in how we ourselves can best exemplify the change we seek. We are pleased to report that we made substantial progress on our mission to elevate performance and live our own values in 2011. Our progress includes taking the significant steps on our journey to becoming a flat, self-governing organization, creating democratically-elected councils responsible for governing the company, removing titles, and instituting a Principled Performance Reflection that extends greater degrees of trust through a self-rating approach to performance reviews. Furthermore, we invested heavily in creating new solutions that allow companies to more deeply live the principles they commit to as a member of the UNGC. One of our most significant achievements for the year was in measuring the business impacts of Inspiring Principled Performance through our release of The HOW Report™. In this study, independently conducted by the Boston Research Group in collaboration with Research Data Technology and The Center for Effective Organizations at the University of Southern California, more than 35,000 full-time employees were surveyed globally to compare the “Be the change you want to see in the world.” —Mahatma Gandhi 2 business returns of competing models of Governance, Culture and Leadership and the observed behavior of management and employees. The HOW Report uncovered tangible elements of culture that can be measured and acted upon to create a distinct competitive advantage in the 21st century marketplace. We are excited about the implications of this new global study and what they mean for the UNGC and its member organizations. Clearly, we have entered a new era where it is possible to measure how we operate, lead and govern our institutions, and this study demonstrates that it is, indeed, practical to be principled. For that reason, we have welcomed the opportunity to work with the UNGC during a time when principled performance has never been needed more and where its benefits have never been clearer. As institutions, we’ve gotten incredibly good at measuring “how much”—revenue, profit, market share, resources and debt. However, as we continue to lurch frequently from one crisis to another, and generally contend with the dynamics of operating in a globally interdependent world, creating resiliency and forging a path of sustainable growth requires leaders to rethink the very nature of how their organizations operate and how their people conduct business. By inspiring Our shared journey depends on a commitment to inculcate sustainable values into the the behavior we fabric of company cultures and systems of governance and leadership, and on the ability seek at both the to translate those values into operating principles, improved corporate practices and organizational and measurable leadership behaviors. By inspiring the behavior we seek at both the organiindividual levels, zational and individual levels, we help companies build organizations that can survive and thrive, have greater resiliency and growth, and be both successful and sustainable. we help companies build organizations We look forward to continuing our journey with the UNGC and its member organizations to pursue our common goals for many years to come. that can survive and thrive, have Sincerely, greater resiliency and growth, and be both successful and sustainable. Dov Seidman 3 LRN and the UNGC Since 1994, LRN has helped companies create ethical corporate cultures and inspire principled performance. We have helped guide companies in translating their values into concrete corporate practices and leadership behaviors that create sustainable competitive advantage. We provide organizations with strategic advice and guidance, practical tools, comprehensive education and experiential learning, and peer-to-peer alliances across a broad range of issues in the areas of law, compliance, governance, ethics and risk; ethical and inspirational leadership; social responsibility; and environmental responsibility and innovation. We believe that companies need not choose between living their principles and maximizing profits, or between enhancing reputation and growing revenue. Both are by-products of principled performance. We also believe that the journey to inspire more principled behavior and performance in business is a moral imperative, especially in our interconnected and thus interdependent world, and that it is the only viable path to sustainable business progress, success and significance. The UNGC, now in its 11th year, is the world’s largest corporate citizenship and sustainability initiative, with more than 8,000 participants and stakeholders from more than 135 countries. These participants have voluntarily committed to aligning their business operations and strategies with ten universally accepted principles. We were inspired to join the UNGC in early 2010 because we felt that our respective missions were complementary and reinforcing, and we continue to share a joint vision for a more sustainable future. The goal of all compact members is to further their commitment in the areas of Human Rights, Labour Standards, Environment, and Anti-Corruption, and our purpose for being is to help companies and their people live up to these higher principles, and not merely comply with minimal standards. In building a community around these standards, one that is transparent and global, the UNGC has created momentum and underscored the most effective way to scale its ideas and beliefs. We at LRN remain committed to collaborating with the UNGC in helping advance sustainable, values-based business models and markets throughout the world in 2012 and beyond. We at LRN remain committed to collaborating with the UNGC in helping advance sustainable, values-based business models and markets throughout the world in 2012 and beyond. 4 LRN’s Reach and Impact Since 1994, LRN has helped nearly and supply chain partners, regardless of 17 million people at more than 700 their location, get the right knowledge at companies worldwide simultaneously the right time and in culturally relevant navigate complex legal and regulatory ways. Indeed, in our recent assessments environments and foster ethical cultures. of the quality and value of this education, about 90 percent of respondents said Organizations of all sizes and industries that the LRN education they received is have come to rely on LRN’s comprehenrelevant to their jobs. sive and global education solutions to educate their people on topics that Further, we have worked with corporate relate to the ten principles of the UNGC. leadership and boards of directors to In fact, LRN’s partner community has foster values-based, self-governing completed some 57 million educational cultures and principled performance as experiences intended to inspire more their source of competitive advantage. principled behavior in business. Since 2000, GreenOrder, an LRN advisory Our partners completed more than group, has partnered with senior nine million educational experiences in executives at more than 100 global 2011 alone—an increase of 1.5 million enterprises to transform the way completions compared to the year business leaders view sustainability, before. We have provided this education drive growth by creating environmentally in more than 50 languages, helping responsible and innovative products and partners reach their people in more than services, and relate to their stakeholders 120 countries around the world, ensuring in sustainable ways. that the workforce, managers, leaders 5 The HOW Report: Rethinking the Source of Resiliency, Innovation and Sustainable Growth What you measure is a window into what you value. As institutions, we’ve gotten incredibly good at measuring “how much,” as in “how much” revenue, profit, market share, resource, debt, etc. As we continue to lurch frequently from one crisis to another, and generally contend with the dynamics of operating in a globally interdependent world, creating resiliency and forging a path of sustainable growth requires leaders to rethink the very nature of how their organizations operate and how their people conduct business. We have entered a new era where it is possible to measure how we operate, lead and govern our institutions. In 2011, LRN published The HOW Report, a first-of-its-kind national study of more than 5,000 full-time employees. The HOW Report was commissioned by LRN and independently conducted by the Boston Research Group, in collaboration with Research Data Technology and The Center for Effective Organizations at the University of Southern California. The study compares the business returns of competing models of Governance, Culture and Leadership and the observed behavior of management and Five major findings of The HOW Report: employees. We have now executed a new study of 35,000 employees globally, and will 1. Self-governance is rare in corporate release results in a new HOW Report in 2012. We believe The HOW Report should America. And those most responsible for implementing culture-specific initiatives— provide the UNGC and its member organizations practical evidence that principled C-suite executives and human resource approaches to business generate greater business outcomes. We also hope LRN’s professionals—are much more likely to approach to measuring “principled performance” will become a standard for how we observe that their organizations are self-governing than the overwhelming measure performance in the 21st century. majority of their co-workers. 2. There are tangible elements of culture According to the national HOW Report, CEOs in corporate America are six times more likely that can be measured and acted upon than average workers to believe they work in a company where people are inspired. In fact, to create a distinct competitive advantage in the 21st century marketplace. employees say they are primarily coerced (84%) or motivated (12%) by carrots and sticks on 3. Organizations that exhibit self-governing the job rather than inspired by values and a commitment to a mission and purpose (4%). behavior experience significantly fewer risks associated with employee Yet, the study revealed that companies that do self-govern through values significantly misconduct. outperform those who don’t. These companies experience higher levels of innovation, 4. Organizations that exhibit self-governing employee loyalty and customer satisfaction, and lower levels of misconduct, employee behavior are significantly more likely to see higher levels of innovation, employee fear of speaking up and retaliation, the study finds. Employees in self-governing loyalty and greater customer satisfaction. companies also report stronger financial performance relative to the competition. 5. When viewed systemically, the four primary outcomes of a self-governing We are excited about the implications of The HOW Report and what they mean for organization—less employee misconduct the UNGC and its member organizations. Ultimately, the study uncovered tangible and greater innovation, employee loyalty and customer satisfaction—work elements of culture that can be measured and acted upon to create a distinct competitive synergistically to deliver superior advantage in the 21st century marketplace. The HOW Report clearly demonstrates financial performance. once and for all that it is, indeed, practical to be principled. Archetypes of Governance, Culture, and Leadership 3% Self-Governance 54% Informed Acquiescence 43% Blind Obedience n=5,122 6 A Deeper Look at How LRN’s Solutions Help Bring UNGC’s Ten Principles to Life LRN offers a comprehensive and integrated suite of solutions that help our partner companies create cultures of principled performance that embrace the UNGC’s areas of commitment. Our combination of practical tools, education and strategic advice in the areas of law, governance, ethics, compliance and risk; inspirational leadership; social responsibility; and environmental responsibility helps organizations: • Evolve and reinforce a system of values-based governance, culture and leadership. • Make organizational principles and values-based corporate practices and behaviors an engine of sustainable value, competitive advantage and significance. • Understand and manage risk, and engage comprehensively on ethics and compliance, and social and environmental responsibility. • Meet compliance obligations and inspire and enable new measures of principled performance. LRN helps companies create a culture of principled performance and provides specific solutions that embrace the UNGC’s ten principles. UNGC PRINCIPLES Human Rights Labour Environment Anti-Corruption Education LRN Alliances SOLUTIONS Advisory Services Tools & Assessments Issue Area Not Yet Addressed by LRN Solutions Issue Area Partially Addressed by LRN Solutions Issue Area Substantially Addressed by LRN Solutions Issue Area Significantly Addressed by LRN Solutions 7 Inspiring Principled Performance Through Education, Tools and Assessments, Alliances, and Advisory Services Our solutions help companies make progress specific to the UNGC’s ten principles and translate those principles into concrete corporate practices and leadership behaviors that create sustainable competitive advantage. For instance, LRN’s solutions help companies understand and address their risks across the UNGC’s ten principles. Our proprietary Risk Assessment + Management solution provides a best practice methodology, overview and reporting tool to identify, assess and manage numerous risks, including freedom of association and collective bargaining, forced and child labour, employment discrimination, environmental risks and a variety of corrupt practices. In April of 2011, LRN released an improved version of the Risk Assessment + Management solution covering 25 risk areas and featuring improved navigation and ease of use. The next version of the tool is slated for release in mid-2012 and will include additional metrics for identifying, Online Education image reporting and mitigating risks involving human rights, labour, employment and harassment issues. In addition, our award-winning online education and experiential learning programs help companies learn how to recognize risks, how to avoid danger zones and how to stay true to their values so that they can be both resilient and succeed. Our educational experiences include courses on collective bargaining, labour and employment discrimination issues, environmental compliance and responsibility, business-to-business and government-related corruption, and sustainability and sustainable supply chain management (including human rights, forced and child labour, environmental issues and corruption). In 2011, LRN invested significant resources to expand our library and deepen education in the areas of human and labour rights as well as environmental performance. In total, LRN created or substantially revised 120 education modules in its library in 2011, in categories such as “Anti-Money Laundering,” “Government Contracting,” “Environmental Compliance,” “Financial Integrity,” “Eliminating Forced Labor, Slavery and Human Trafficking,” and “Responsible Social Networking.” In addition, we created hundreds more custom or translated experiences for our partners. Furthermore, we’ve made great progress in our library for anti-bribery and anti-corruption in building courses that are values-based as opposed to regulations-based. The LRN education library will be expanded in 2012, with enhancements intended to empower our partners to deliver the right knowledge, at the right time, in the right format. LRN also strengthens the ability of its partner organizations to influence and inspire their business partners, especially suppliers, to act more responsibly. Through education and advisory services, we help companies examine relationships and practices in the supply chain and work to reduce risk and leverage opportunities for social, environmental and ethical performance. 8 Anti-Corruption We have focused particular attention on anti-corruption issues, providing our partners a suite of services designed to assess and improve anti-corruption programs, engage employees and ensure sustainable success. LRN’s anti-corruption program assessments provide companies with a thorough analysis of their current anti-corruption efforts, discuss benchmarking and best practices in the context of the international anti-corruption landscape, and provide specific recommendations for improvement, including a roadmap for building a best-in-class anti-corruption program. Our anti-corruption education solutions include overview courses in a variety of formats, shorter awareness and reinforcement courses for introducing or refreshing knowledge, and advanced courses to further knowledge building. We also provide custom online experiential education on various anti-corruption topics. Throughout, our highly interactive sessions employ simulations, vignettes, video scenarios and other rich content to engage employees. To help ensure the continuing effectiveness of anti-corruption efforts, we provide our partners with ongoing consultation with our anti-corruption experts. In addition, our Ethics & Compliance Alliance (ECA) provides unique resources and support to enhance enterprise-wide knowledge, mitigate risk, support collaboration with experts and peers, and implement program components. Encompassing 13 key risk areas, including anti-corruption, the ECA is a source for ethics and compliance tools and resources, as well as interaction and collaboration. Anti-corruption resources include model policies and program materials, risk-assessment procedures, legal research, analyses of recent legal developments, and educational materials. Significant progress was made in our anti-corruption programs over the course of the last year, including: • More than 300 new and repurposed content assets created for LRN Alliances, resulting in more than 1,500 downloads from the Ethics & Compliance Alliance alone. • 20 new experts recruited to our roster of subject matter experts, who consult with our partners and help create new and relevant content for our programs. • Increased promotion and development of Alliance webinars, resulting in tripled attendance for webinars in 2011. Significant progress was made in our anti-corruption programs over the course of the last year 9 Leadership Strong anti-corruption programs with deep roots across the corporation are necessary but not sufficient to instill a values-based culture in which employees are comfortable speaking up about concerns and being role models of the right behaviors. LRN believes that leaders are the catalyst to promoting and sustaining an ethical culture inside organizations. Leaders must reconnect, set a new course and inspire all around them. We believe that inspirational leaders view leadership as a behavior, not a title. They pursue significance and meaning beyond the short term; and they achieve results with people, not over them. To help propel this type of inspirational leadership across enterprises, LRN cultivated its Inspirational Leadership Alliance (ILA) in 2011. This unique online solution, consisting of in-depth leadership assessments, practical tools, individual coaching, learning plans, and community forums, supports and guides the development of leaders. Organized around eight leadership principles that have been synthesized from our research, thought leadership, and proven practices, the ILA equips leaders at all levels to act as the engines of more principled performance. Throughout the year, our weekly “Living HOW” learning experiences, which are circulated internally based on current events and relevant social issues, were frequently repurposed and distributed to partners as ILA assets to be used as learning experiences within their organizations as well. LRN has built a library of more than 40 different online learning modules on ethical and inspirational leadership, and will add more than a dozen new modules to that library in 2012. LRN also helped to make leadership more efficient and effective for its partners in 2011. By developing the Activities Interactions Mapping (AIM) solution, a broad-reaching tool that applies LRN knowledge and expertise, we help leaders: • Gain insight into employees’ behaviors and interactions • Target knowledge to the right people • Mitigate and manage risks • Equip employees with new knowledge that supports critical business opportunities • Address organizational changes quickly, such as integrating new employees from a merger or acquisition Armed with this insight, organizations can allocate limited resources more efficiently and improve the efficiency of current knowledge delivery programs. 10 Environmental and Social Responsibility We are also positioned to help our partners in meeting their commitments to the UNGC by offering a comprehensive suite of solutions to address issues of environmental and social responsibility. Companies that have integrated environmentally and socially responsible principles and actions into their operations are realizing great benefits in performance, reputation and enhanced stakeholder relationships—as well as seeing the long-term financial benefits. In 2011, we developed an integrated suite of sustainability courses and videos that address areas of anti-corruption, social responsibility, transparency and more. It is essential that leaders committed to a sustainable journey for their organizations explore language, concepts, business risks and opportunities. Our Environmental and Social Sustainability (ESS) solutions, including ESS leadership presentations, workshops and marketing materials, enable organizations to focus appropriately on these critical areas. We also offer assessments on ESS practices, employee engagement and supply chain. In addition, we have developed the LRN EcoStrategy Alliance (ESA), which allows organizations to deepen their commitments to environmental responsibility. It provides global enterprises with the actionable tools and expertise required to craft, implement and improve corporate sustainability strategies and initiatives. Leveraging a community of senior sustainability experts and practitioners, we are able to help our partners effectively reduce their organization’s environmental footprints, use sustainability to identify new business opportunities, and truly make sustainability a source of business value. In 2011, ESA focus areas included Sustainable Supply Chain Management and Operational Performance in the Built Environment. Several new toolkits were added, including “Activating Green Buildings: Engaging Occupants and Operators” and “Retro-Commissioning,” all to help Alliance members navigate the sustainability space. Other content developed in 2011 included new case studies, “green” marketing assets and energy management software. For Alliance members, partners and the general public, the ESA also hosted approximately half a dozen webinars on topics such as Alternative Fuel Vehicles, Operational Environmental Performance, and Culture Change and Environmental Stewardship. We look forward to creating even more content and adding new partners to the ESA in 2012. GreenOrder, an LRN advisory group, helps companies gain competitive advantage through environmental innovation. GreenOrder works as a long-term partner to CEOs and senior management teams to achieve environmental leadership that supports key business goals, contributes to long-term success, and transforms business culture. LRN’s advisory services, including GreenOrder, help companies advance in their journey to principled performance and social and environmental responsibility. We work with companies to help diagnose and assess current performance and to develop strategies and plans to achieve sustainable principled performance. 11 LRN: A Laboratory for Our Ideas The LRN Leadership We remain compelled by our mission to be a laboratory for our own ideas about leadership, culture and governance. Framework—an interconnected, The LRN Leadership Framework—an interconnected, mutually reinforcing set of principles and behaviors—galvanizes and unifies our culture, inspiring and informing our conduct mutually reinforcing whether we’re collaborating with colleagues or partnering with clients. Our core values lie set of principles at the center of the LRN Leadership Framework: Integrity, Humility, Passion and Truth. and behaviors— The Framework guides our everyday business decisions and actions, and it allows us galvanizes and to consider our conduct in a broader, more reflective context that supports our evolution unifies our culture, and journey. It infuses our culture with a consciousness of and commitment to lawful inspiring and and ethical conduct across everything we do. The attributes promoted in the Framework informing our originate from qualities that are deeply rooted in our culture as well as ones that we wish to nurture in the organization. conduct whether we’re collaborating Active engagement with the LRN Leadership Framework deepens our understanding of the significance of the LRN mission and furthers our ability to help companies engage their with colleagues people in shared responsibility for shaping a culture that inspires principled performance. or partnering with clients. Our Leadership Framework 12 © 2008 2011 LRN Corporation Proprietary & Confidential Not for Redistribution Living HOW In order for LRN to be authentic in our mission and fully relate to our partners, we look internally on a continual basis and evaluate where our culture is and where we aspire for it to be. We call this effort “Living HOW.” It both allows and obligates us to continually evaluate our processes against our values. As part of “Living HOW,” our own colleagues take the same courses we provide to our partner companies, with particular emphasis on anti-corruption, supply-chain management and environmental awareness. In 2011, LRN continued to be intentional and rigorous about exemplifying our philosophy in all that we do. Living HOW at LRN is more than a program; it is an authentic effort to live our values and be true to our principles in every aspect of our business and culture. Most notably, we introduced our new Governance model and demonstrated commitment to a flat organizational structure. The Governance model introduced in early 2011 consists of four councils in addition to the Executive Committee, with membership to the councils democratically elected. These councils are responsible for governing the company, with specific focus on our culture, our resources, principled performance, operations and our strategic initiatives. To pursue our aspirations of true self-governance, we also implemented a flatter environment by eliminating hierarchies. We removed titles and knocked down silos by doing away with functional structures. Additionally, since LRN’s mission is to Inspire Principled Performance, internally we have implemented a Principled Performance Reflection (PPR) process designed to honor our flat structure and remain in greater alignment with our self-governing aspirations. The new process attempts to provide colleagues with meaningful feedback from a broad network of colleagues and assesses performance against our Leadership Framework. This process continues to evolve as we seek to extend even greater degrees of trust to colleagues through a self-rating approach to performance reviews. In 2011, we continued to be rigorous about our own culture, using our Governance, Culture and Leadership Assessment (GCLA) solution to examine how we are doing against our previous measurement in 2010 as well as against the national benchmarks documented in The HOW Report. The results of our assessment demonstrated improvement from 2010 and progress toward our cultural, philosophical and operational aspirations. One of the most significant examples of our commitment to Living HOW in the community is our partnership with the Elie Wiesel Foundation for Humanity. The Foundation shares the same commitment to principled, ethical action as do LRN and the UNGC, particularly in the areas of human rights. LRN is the exclusive corporate sponsor of the Foundation’s Prize in Ethics, an annual competition that challenges college students to reflect upon the urgent ethical issues of our increasingly complex world. LRN deepened its support of the Foundation in 2011 by creating an outlet for “HOW Pledges” on its Facebook page, encouraging Facebook community members to pledge their commitment to principled behavior and sustainable progress. As a result, LRN received more than 1,000 pledges in a matter of months. LRN will donate one dollar per pledge to the Elie Wiesel Foundation, and the HOW Pledges and subsequent donations to the Foundation will continue in 2012. 13 Our work with values-based organizations is not limited to the Elie Wiesel Foundation. In September of 2011, LRN announced its formal commitment to the Clinton Global Initiative (CGI), pledging to deepen organizations’ dedication to values-based leadership. LRN will work with a select and dedicated group of institutions from CGI’s membership as part of its commitment to create a Practice Forum for Principled Leadership, Governance and Operations. LRN will provide these Forum members education, mentoring and tools to strengthen and advance how they behave, lead, govern, operate, consume, engender trust in their relationships and relate to others. The LRN Practice Forum on Principled Leadership, Performance and Operations will help institutions rethink their leadership approaches; evolve from traditional modes of operating, corporate strategy, and performance; uncover new sources of resiliency, innovation, and growth; and generally measure how they do business to forge a path of progress and sustainable prosperity. In addition, it is our belief that encouraging and supporting young people is critical to the future of our world, and we are investing in additional ways to foster the next generation of ethical leaders. We work with a variety of educational institutions to inspire more youth to embrace principled, ethical action as the greatest source of strength and advantage. We also provide opportunities for LRN colleagues to dedicate work hours to connect meaningfully with their communities and to meet the needs of society in the areas of the ten principles. LRN is committed to environmental responsibility in how we operate. We have dedicated teams who are charged with inspiring more environmentally responsible behaviors across all areas of our operation. In 2011, the company’s New York City operations were consolidated into a single office, for which we are currently in the final stages of LEED certification. Some of the LEED components include sustainable sites, such as bicycle storage and shower rooms; water efficiencies through energy-efficient plumbing fixtures; energy-efficient HVAC systems, lighting equipment, and appliances; the use of recycled material and resources in construction components; and dedicated areas for storage collection and recycling. The LRN office was also designed to be open, transparent and collaborative and in other ways that reinforce and enhance our culture by helping to bring our values and principles to life. LRN understands that the ability to create value and thrive uniquely in the 21st century is increasingly based on how we do what we do—not just in products and services. Embracing the UNGC’s ten principles is an important step in a company’s journey to tap into its “how” as a source of advantage. The challenge and opportunity that follows is to discover how to share and scale these principles inside and outside their organizations. LRN understands that the ability to create value and thrive uniquely in the 21st century is increasingly based on how we do what we do— not just in products and services. 14 About LRN: Inspiring Principled Performance Since 1994, LRN has helped over 17 million people at more than 700 companies worldwide simultaneously navigate complex legal and regulatory environments and foster ethical cultures. LRN’s combination of practical tools, education and strategic advice helps companies translate their values into concrete corporate practices and leadership behaviors that create sustainable competitive advantage. In partnership with LRN, companies need not choose between living principles and maximizing profits, or between enhancing reputation and growing revenue: all are a product of principled performance. In 2008, LRN acquired environmental innovation firm GreenOrder. LRN works with organizations in more than 100 countries and has offices in Los Angeles, New York, London and Mumbai. For more information, visit www.lrn.com, join our community at facebook.com/howistheanswer, or call: 800 529 6366 or 646 862 2040. ©2012 LRN Corporation. All rights reserved. L1007-0312-01-NY
