COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS (COP) 2011 Dear reader IFU’s and IØ’s (the Funds) overall mission is to enhance sustainable economic growth, development and more equitable income distribution by financing private sector investments in developing countries and reforming economies. Our corporate social responsibility (CSR) policy is ambitious and is based upon international UN, ILO and OECD conventions, declarations and agreements. We hereby seek to contribute to the global achievement of the UN Millennium Development Goals. It is our objective that our investments should respect the fundamental human rights and contribute to a lasting economic, environmental and social sustainable development through the creation of healthy and safe workplaces and the transfer of knowhow and cleaner technologies. We wish to contribute to the social and economic development of the local community – and we also encourage the project companies to engage themselves locally. We are committed to securing high CSR standards as a fundamental aspect of sound business management of our investments and business practice. The Funds’ supervisory board, manage­ment, employees and advisers must conduct all their business operations in accordance with the values and the spirit laid down in the CSR policy. We signed up to the 10 UN Global Compact principles in 2008, because they are a set of universal principles that help us underline our CSR policy, wherever in the world we create business, and we are committed to implement­ing and advancing these principles together with the project companies and within IFU’s sphere of influence. Copenhagen, April 2012 Finn Jønck Managing Director, CEO Private sector investments create development IFU Investment fund for developing countries is fund manager for IØ, the Investment Fund for Central and Eastern Europe. IFU was founded in 1967, IØ in 1989. For more than four decades, IFU has proved that private sector investment creates a basis for development. We ensure business opportunities for Danish companies abroad, and we create local jobs and local income in the countries we invest in. The Danish government decided in 2010 that IØ’s activities are to be phased out, and IØ cannot enter into new commitments. | 2 | Communication on Progress (COP) Our CSR policy icy. Further, IFU encourages each project company to According to IFU’s corporate social responsibility (CSR) adopt its own CSR policy, so as to clearly define and depolicy, IFU’s investments must, on an ongoing basis, conscribe the company’s vision, strategy and operational tribute to creating jobs and income, improving corporate guidelines, and eg sign up to the UN Global Compact. governance, sound environmental and social performance and developing the local communities involved. The full IFU sees this as a signal of strong commitment to CSR in policy can be found in an annex to this document. the company, but companies may also apply other means to ensure high standards. This means that the management of IFU’s investments must strive to seek a balance between the concerns for In 2011, 30 per cent of project companies (67 companies) profitability, the concerns of the society and the value to had a written CSR policy or were covered by a CSR policy the community through appropriate due diligence, addefined by their parent company. In 2010, the number was dressing hotspots and using its leverage within the frame27 per cent, which in turn was four percentage points work of corporate social responsibility. higher than in 2009. For IØ, 11 per cent of the project companies had a CSR policy. There is no doubt that CSR is a moving target. New issues are constantly put on the agenda, and new dilemmas regCSR Awards 2011 ularly have to be considered. In 2011, IFU improved its In 2011, the Danish CSR Foundation (CSR-Fonden) organprocedures, tools and the assistance provided to project ised for the first time a national CSR event – CSR Awards companies in order to strike the right balance. 2011 – which served as an overarching award ceremony for granting 12 CSR-related awards to people, organisaIFU’s CSR policy covers the four areas of the UN Global tions and companies that have contributed to excellent Compact: human rights, labour rights, environment and CSR initiatives. anti-corruption plus areas such as animal welfare and community development. IFU was part of this initiative and launched its special prize, the CSR Investment award for sustainable investThis COP, required annually of all signatories to the UN ment in developing countries. Global Compact, includes both IFU and IØ (the Funds) and constitutes the mandatory reporting as required by the Danish Financial Statements Act, section 99 a (7). Compliance and international standards forming the baseline It is IFU’s policy that IFU investments, known as project companies, must at all times be in compliance with all host country regulatory requirements. In addition, international standards must be used as a baseline for significant CSR issues, and if these standards are not met, the project company must draw up and implement a CSR Action Plan to address the issues. Proactive approach beyond compliance IFU’s goal is for a project company’s CSR objectives to be anchored in its business strategy and be fully adapted to and integrated into company procedures and operations, so that CSR remains a strategic driver after IFU has exited. All IFU projects must commit to following IFU’s CSR polFactory hall at Elo Automated Qingdao, China. | 3 | Communication on Progress (COP) The CSR Investment award is given to a company that is In 2011, IFU held training sessions for investment managmaking a special and dedicated effort towards sustainabilers and project companies participating in IFU Focus on ity, has a proven sustainable business model and high enanti-corruption measures and specifically on the issues vironmental, social and governance standards. dealt with in the UK Bribery Act. In practice, the company must have created healthy workIFU does not accept corruption and bribery and encourplaces with good working conditions, introduced a prevenages its project companies to have a clear policy, internal tive approach to environmental issues and fair operating training and adequate procedures in place to prevent bribpractices, such as those required under the Global Comery, reflecting the bribery risks companies face. pact, for example. At the same time, the company must have made a contribution to society. Management must promote an anti-bribery programme, demonstrate assessment of relevant risks, and business The jury was IFU’s CSR Advisory Board, and the winner partners should be checked. was the vegetable producer Danper in Peru, see case on page 7. IFU has been a member of Transparency InternationaI, Denmark since 2004 and is represented on the board. Anti-corruption initiatives In the fight against corruption, 2011 was an important year CSR advisory board with many new initiatives taken worldwide. Corruption To stay up-to-date on new opportunities, dilemmas and distorts markets, stifles growth, debases democracy and risks, IFU established a four-member CSR advisory board undermines the rule of law. in 2007, each representing important IFU stakeholders on PHOTO: JENS HONORÉ Mr Arne H Berg, chairman of Danper, Peru, is presented with the IFU CSR Investment award by Mr Jørgen M Clausen, chairman of Danfoss, and Mr Finn Jønck, managing director of IFU. | 4 | Communication on Progress (COP) one of these issues: human rights, occupational health HIV/AIDS and road awareness programmes at Rabai and safety, environment, development and corporate polPower Plant, Kenya, as well as training of suppliers and an icy. The board meets regularly to discuss key issues like employee satisfaction survey at Dantrafo Suzhou, China. media communication, due diligence tools, supply chain dilemmas, anti-corruption and facilitation payments. The The project companies have shown considerable interest members are: in applying for these grants, which have a total annual budget of DKK 3m. • John Nordbo, Conservation Director, Head of Climate Programme, WWF Assessment of CSR performance • Jakob Simonsen, Director, UNDP Nordic Office Each year IFU carries out an internal assessment of its • Sune Skadegaard Thorsen, Senior Partner, Global CSR portfolio regarding compliance with its CSR policy. Each • Malene Østergaard, CSR & Environment Director, project is classified into one of five categories as follows: Danfoss Excellent, Good, Fair, Poor and Critical. EDFI cooperation guidelines for investments in funds In 2011, compliance assessments were carried out for 164 IFU is member of the association of European DevelopIFU projects. The compliance assessment does not inment Finance Institutions (EDFI), a group of 15 organisaclude 34 projects that are in the process of being estabtions. EDFI has established a working group for harmonilished, nine projects with no physical activities, and 14 sation of appraisal procedures on CSR issues, which is a projects being exited. Similarly for IØ, assessments were strong network for IFU and facilitates knowledge sharing carried out for 45 IØ projects. The compliance assessbetween sister organisations. ment does not include four projects that are in the process of being established, 11 projects with no physical activities, In 2011, the EDFI Environment + Social Working Group and six projects being exited. finalised a set of harmonised environmental and social guidelines for funds. These are based on high international The CSR classification is a combination of three separate CSR standards, which aim to ensure a compatible due diliclassifications: 1) environment, 2) occupational health and gence process and more efficient and timely processes for safety (OHS) and 3) human rights and labour practices. EDFI members when they invest together in funds. Projects with the classification Good are in compliance IFU has implemented these standards into its appraisal with local legislation and international standards, eg IFC/ process. World Bank EHS guidelines on significant CSR issues. Projects with the classification Excellent go beyond that. Danida CSR Training Fund Projects with the classification Fair, Poor or Critical are proIFU manages the Danida CSR Training Fund, which can jects to which IFU and IØ pay much attention in order to adprovide training grants to IFU’s project companies. vise the projects on how to improve their CSR performance. In 2011, IFU made grant commitments for training proThe scores in 2011 are very similar to those in 2010 for grammes in eight project companies, including a training both IFU and IØ. centre for beekeepers at Ingemann Food Nicaragua, Human rights and CSR Total score (%) Environment (%) OHS (%) labour practices (%) classification IFU IØ IFU IØ IFU IØ IFU IØ Excellent 27 31 29 31 25 33 27 29 Good 56 54 54 51 55 53 58 58 Fair 16 14 15 18 18 11 15 13 Poor 1 1 2 0 2 2 0 0 Critical 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 | 5 | Communication on Progress (COP) The Funds’ CSR performance IFU Focus The Funds’ have their head office in Copenhagen and IFU Focus consists of interactive seminars on CSR and HR small regional offices in New Delhi, Beijing, Accra, Nairobi, facilitated by IFU and delivered in cooperation with interCairo and Johannesburg. Three of the African offices are in national as well as local experts. the same building as the Danish embassy. In 2011, an average of 68 people were employed at the Funds including IFU Focus ran for a second year in 2011. Based on the pos54 at the head office. Looking at the significant CSR issues itive experiences from 2010, IFU Focus events were held for an organisation doing office work and visiting project in New Delhi, Johannesburg and Nairobi. companies around the world, the Funds pay special attention to building performance including heating and elecCSR and HR are key elements in building strong and sustricity, health issues, transportation and compliance with tainable companies. This often poses a challenge in develstaff ethics. oping countries, and in that sense IFU Focus provides an important framework for training, new insight and sharing The Funds have a comprehensive set of guidelines on staff of best practice. The seminars deliver additionality and ofethics formalising the ethical standards and policies applifer inspiration to sound business development within four cable for all IFU employees. IFU employees deal with a key areas: wide array of cultures and therefore need to understand not only political, social and economic features of a coun1. CSR adding value to the business strategy try but also be sensitive to local cultures and appreciate 2. How to do corporate governance right the impact of these aspects in a business and social con3. Anti-corruption measures text, including anti-corruption, which requires strict staff 4. Managing diversity and using people strategy ethics. to develop efficient organisations The Funds’ investment managers participate in board The topics covered at the seminars varied according to the meetings and visit the project companies, which means needs in the region where the seminar was offered. that the Funds have many travel kilometres every year. It is also often necessary to be present on site to be able to Participants are mainly project company managements, monitor all aspects of a company’s performance. The Danish partners, local partners and, depending on the size Funds try to find the right level of travel and keep it to a of the company, CSR and HR managers. By the end of minimum using e.g. new communication tools. But often 2011, 167 people had participated in IFU Focus. the Funds’ investments operate in an area where these communication tools are not yet available or reliable. Participants in IFU Focus East Africa, held in Nairobi in November 2011. | 6 | Communication on Progress (COP) Facts about the COMPANY Winner of IFU’s CSR Investment award 2011 Danper Trujillo Danper, Peru – a leader in CSR Danish partner: AHB Holding A/S Start: 1991 Country: Peru Danper is a joint venture between Danish and Peruvian shareholders producing asparagus, artichokes, peppers and Actual direct employment: 7,800 other kinds of fruit and vegetable in Peru for export. Since Indirect employment: 15,000 being established with 80 employees in 1991, the company Signed up to Global Compact: 2009 has provided employment to more than 20,000 rural PeruCertificates: ISO 9000, HACCP, ISO 14001, vians in one of the least developed regions of northern Peru. IFU has invested more than DKK 24m as a combinaOHSAS 18001, GLOBALGAP, USGAP, BASC tion of a minority shareholding and a loan. IFU has also served on the board of directors of the company during the Danper cooperates with regional and national authorities 20-year period. on active programmes on contraception and birth control as well as various health campaigns and also operates a Danper’s production is located near Trujillo, 550 km north mobile medical clinic serving rural communities that othof Lima. The company is Peru's second largest exporter of erwise would have no access to medical care. processed asparagus and artichokes, and one of the three largest agricultural companies in Peru and a leader in CSR. Focus on environment programmes In the areas where it operates, Danper has arranged for Training develops skills electricity and clean water and has also contributed to deThe company is based partly on own production and veloping the road network. partly on more than 500 local farmers supplying vegetables from their own farms. The crops supplied stem from Concern for the environment is a high priority, and Danper the cultivation of more than 5,000 hectares of land – most was the first agricultural and food company in Peru to be of which was previously desert. certified to ISO 14000. The company has conducted studies to analyse the effects of its activities on the environDanper works closely with suppliers and conducts sysment, and effective programmes have been developed to tematic training which helps improve production proeliminate or minimise adverse environmental effects. cesses and ensures high quality products. Training courses help to build skills and know-how among staff and the loDanper has launched a programme to reduce, reuse and cal farmers, thus contributing to creating an effective and recycle waste and assure that resource consumption is sustainable agricultural production. The training includes minimised striving for virtually 100 per cent of waste recycourses held by senior agricultural experts, whereby parcling. For example, residue from the production of asparaticipants stay abreast of developments within climate, the gus and artichokes is used to feed 1,500 milk-producing environment and other topics. cows and their calves. Part of this production is processed into milk for drinking and cheese that is sold to the local Danper employs nearly 8,000 people directly – of which population. the majority are women – and has indirectly created 15,000 jobs in the region. In 2011, IFU made a new investment with ABH Holding in a project named Danper Agricola to produce grapes and Health campaigns avocado. The company is certified to OHSAS 18000, which forms the basis for the strategic work to ensure a healthy and safe working environment, both in agriculture and in processing. Danper has also established a health programme to improve the health of employees and their families. The company has its own medical clinic, which, among other things, helps women during pregnancy and after they have given birth. | 7 | Communication on Progress (COP) Annex 1 Corporate Social Responsibility Policy (CSR Policy) Scope ination and encourage the project companies to promote IFU’s overall mission is to enhance sustainable economic gender equality. growth, development and more equitable income distribution by financing private sector investments in developing Labour rights: IFU requires that all employees in the procountries and reforming economies. ject companies have as a minimum the right to rest, reasonable limitation of working hours, periodic holiday, and IFU’s investments in project companies shall on an ongoreasonable remuneration. All employees must be allowed ing basis contribute to the creation of jobs and income, imfreedom of assembly and participation in workers’ organiprovement of corporate governance, sound environmental sations. and social performance, and to development of the local communities. We seek to ensure that our investments will Occupational health and safety (OHS): Sound OHS procontribute continually to sustainable development. cedures include application of principles of industrial hygiene, substitution of hazardous substances, establishIFU is committed to securing high standards of CSR as a ment of work procedures and material safety data sheets fundamental aspect of sound business management of and ensuring personal protective equipment. IFU requires IFU’s investments and business practice. IFU’s Supervisory that project companies establish joint labour-manageBoard, manage­ment, employees and advisers must conment health and safety committees. duct all their business operations in full accordance with the values and the spirit laid down in the CSR policy. Environment: IFU requires that the project companies actively manage their environ­men­tal im­pact, and that they IFU has signed up to the 10 UN Global Compact princitake actions to improve their environmental performance ples, and we are committed to implement­ing and advancas appropriate. The project companies must support a ing these together with the project companies and within preventive and precautionary approach to environmental IFU’s sphere of influence. IFU’s policy is based upon interchallenges. national UN, ILO and OECD conventions, declarations and agreements, and we hereby seek to contribute to the Climate change: IFU encourages the project companies to global achievement of the UN Millennium Development contribute to climate change mitiga­tion and adaptation in Goals. accordance with the spirit of the Kyoto Protocol on Climate Change. The project companies should give attenIssues of concern tion to major contributions to climate change and conThe main issues of concern covered by IFU’s policy are the sider appropriate meas­ures to minimise the effect. following: Anti-corruption: IFU does not accept corruption and bribHuman rights: It is a fundamental value of IFU to respect ery. The project companies or their repre­sentatives should the basic human rights, and we cannot accept forced or not accept bribes in any form and should not provide imcompulsory labour and the use of child labour in activities, proper benefits to customers, agents, contractors, suppliwhich are dangerous to the moral or physical well-being ers, employers or to government officials. IFU is member and development of the child. IFU advocates non-discrimof Trans­parency International. | 8 | Communication on Progress (COP) Excluded product areas: IFU does not finance projects, Legal framework and norms which produce goods and services that are prohibited in Project companies must at all times be in compliance with Denmark for any environmental, human rights or other host country legislation regarding CSR issues. Good CSR CSR reasons. performance is defined by the norms of ethical behaviour in the various countries and is thereby under constant deCommunity development and society aspects: IFU envelopment. Therefore, IFU and the project compa­nies shall courages the project companies to con­tribute to the debe in continuous dialogue with their stakeholders to be velopment of the local community within their ability and able to act proactively in accordance with their expectathe scope of their core business and business concept. In tions and demands. countries seriously affected by the hiv/aids epidemic, IFU requires that an hiv/aids policy be adopted by the project Whenever significant CSR issues are identified in a procompanies. ject, relevant international standards must be used as a baseline. In case of deviations, the project company must Animal welfare: IFU requires that animals used in food draw up and implement a CSR action plan to mitigate the production, for other commercial purpos­es or for testing issues within a reasonable timeframe. The CSR action plan are treated properly. IFU requires that veterinarians and must be approved by the project partners, including IFU. agriculture technicians do efficient controls and inspecIn case of breach of the CSR policy IFU is entitled to take tions. the neces­sary measures including exiting the project company. Responsibilities and approach IFU’s CSR objectives and activities must be anchored in Transparency and stakeholder dialogue the business strategies of the project compa­nies and must IFU will provide transparent and accountable information be fully adapted to and integrated into their procedures about their own activities and achievements and conand operations. IFU will induce each project company to stantly strive to improve the quality and extent hereof. adopt a written CSR policy, which clearly defines and describes its vision, strategy and operational guidelines. The We encourage our investment partners and project comproject companies must strive to constantly improve their panies to be transparent and informative about their busiown CSR policies, standards and performance and pronesses and CSR performance in order to create the best mote these towards their suppliers where relevant. possible platform for a continuous and proac­tive stakeholder dialogue. IFU will enhance and support the project companies directly and in cooperation with other invest­ment partners IFU is committed to the principles of stakeholder engageand relevant stakeholders in identifying areas of improvement and will, where appropriate, engage in policy diament, determining action plans and strengthening their logue with their partners and with governments on issues environmental and social management capacity. For this related to CSR. purpose, IFU will make its experience and tools available and seek to mobilise support to development of compeThe above CSR Policy was approved by IFU’s Supervisory tence in the project companies. Board on CSR objectives and activities of the project companies 23 October 2008 must be based on a thorough assessment and broad unSigned Finn Jønck derstanding of the interrelationship between the project company and the local community, taking into account the economic, political, cultural and social contexts and diversity in which they operate. IFU has prepared a set of CSR appraisal and monitoring guidelines to assist in the implementation of the CSR policy. | 9 | Communication on Progress (COP)
