COMMUNICATION OF PROGRESS 2010 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Sustainable Living Fabrics Sustainability Report 2010 1 Message from the Managing Director This report covers the period from July 2009 to June 2010. Driven by a concern that climate change is a real global threat, in 2004 Sustainable Living Fabrics began charting a CSR Program for the next five years. The journey is not complete but the five years have passed. The achievements are significant and have set industry benchmarks that have driven significant environmental change. So much was achieved in those early years that it is increasingly difficult to continue to make significant inroads into our sustainability footprint but we strive to maintain our high standards and to improve where possible. In 2008, the company committed to active participation in the Global Compact recognizing this as an effective pathway for global sustainability. In September 2009, I attended the UN Climate Change discussions in New York and in June 2010 participated in the Global Compact Leaders Summit in New York. As CEO of a small organization I was proud to be given the opportunity to have the voice of small business heard and to further promote the importance of the role of SMEs through an interview on Sky Business News, which can be seen here. I am proud of our achievements as an SME and of our success in making our voice heard and driving change in the company, the supply chain and the industry. I remain firmly of the view that the role of SMEs cannot be underestimated in driving real environmental change but it is not easy. Investment in sustainability comes off the bottom line and with no shareholder funds to draw from, out of the owners’ own pockets. On average we continue to invest1% of turnover annually in our sustainability program. I recommend you to our website www.greenliving.com.au and encourage other SMEs to join us in supporting the Global Compact and introducing a proactive and effective CSR Program. Bill Jones CEO Sustainable Living Fabrics Pty Ltd Sustainable Living Fabrics Sustainability Report 2010 2 Introduction “Legitimate and transparent sustainability is the key to success” Bill Jones, CEO Sustainable Living Fabrics The ten principles of the UN Global the Global Compact Leaders Summit Compact are an integral part of the in New York. CSR agenda for Sustainable Living Fabrics and are soundly embedded This report provides quantifiable data and addresses the Company itself, its in corporate culture. The lynchpin history, products, market and the is moral sustainability with corporate philosophies that guide its transparent, credible and sustainability agenda, which in turn independent verification of drives corporate decision-making. credentials. Areas covered by the report are Sustainable Living Fabrics committed indicated in the Appendix. As the to the UN Global Compact in March fabric supply chain has significant 2008 when it produced its first environmental impact, the report Sustainability Report to GRI boundaries extend to the fabric supply Guidelines. In April of that year it chain but not to the supply chain for endorsed the CEO Water Mandate and consumables. the Caring for Climate platform. It has actively participated in these The report is for the financial year initiatives. The Directors attended the ending 30 June 2010. The company is first meeting of signatories to Caring committed to reporting at least every for Climate in Geneva in October 2008 two years. It chose not to seek and the CEO attended the UN Climate external assurance for its report but Change discussions in New York in late independent environmental auditors 2009 and in June 2010 participated in have externally audited its environmental credentials. Sustainable Living Fabrics Sustainability Report 2010 3 Company Overview “Climate change is a challenge that cannot be ignored Bill Jones, CEO Sustainable Living Fabrics Sustainable Living Fabrics’ corporate strategy is driven by a proactive The Board of Directors implemented the sustainability agenda that is more sustainability agenda in response to than just an environmental agenda. climate change considerations. The KISS (Keep it Simple Sustainably) It is about social responsibility and it is Program is designed to take the legitimate, transparent and credible, company’s CSR initiative beyond the embracing independently audited and company into employees’ homes and certified environmental credentials as the community. key criteria for true sustainability. The Company offices or the warehouse impact on natural habitats. As a commission manufacturer, the company controls the product supply chain from raw materials through to finished product enabling it to choose where its processing is done. It is a complex global manufacturing supply chain covering Australia, New Zealand, Germany, Italy, China, Thailand and Indonesia and involves key suppliers doing the right thing in an industry with Sustainable Living Fabrics is an a heavy environmental footprint. Australian commission manufacturer and wholesaler of upholstery fabrics supplying the local and overseas Stakeholders are the shareholders, commercial interiors markets for employees, suppliers and customers without whom its business model could over 45 years. The Company is not be implemented and with whom privately owned and proprietary regular contact is maintained. limited. Its Head Office and warehouse are in Oakleigh Victoria with branches in Sydney, Brisbane and Perth. No Sustainable Living Fabrics Sustainability Report 2010 4 Environmental Excellence Sustainable Living Fabrics’ environmental position is unique amongst Australian companies. Sustainable Living Fabrics’ Green Living Collection of over 400 fabrics is The corporate strategy to achieve a exclusively environmental fabrics from simple guarantee of environmental ethical eco wool, eco polyester and excellence has driven comprehensive, ethical eco wool blends. The products quantifiable CSR change in the are designed as upholstery for Company and has been a catalyst for commercial interiors. Every product change in the industry and the wider sold is independently certified community. environmentally preferable and/or carbon neutral. Wider Recognition Sustainable Living Fabrics has received wider recognition of its achievements. In 2006 it was a Finalist in the Banksia Awards for Excellence and was awarded Foundation Eco Innovation Award. In Defence Recognised Supplier Status by 2007 it won the Victorian Premier’s the Australian Defence Force for its Sustainability Award for Small Business contribution to sustainability. Excellence and also the United Nations Association of Australia (UNAA) World Environment Day 2007 Triple Bottom Line Award which it won for the second consecutive year in 2008. Also in 2008 it won the Monash Environmental Business Award. The Company did not neglect product design Sustainable Living Fabrics was also when pursuing its CSR invited to participate in the prestigious and in July 2008 won a inaugural World Architecture Festival in prestigious Premier’s Barcelona in 2008 as just one of 25 Design Mark for companies invited to showcase its innovation in textile design products. The invitation to participate was in recognition of its environmental In 2010 SLF was a finalist in the achievements. Facilities Management Association Sustainable Living Fabrics Sustainability Report 2010 5 Commitment to the Global Compact Sustainable Living Fabrics is committed to the Global Compact principles of building sustainable markets, combating corruption, safeguarding the environment and ensuring social inclusion. The company recognizes this is The CEO has committed to the Caring increasingly important for the longfor Climate Change Platform and term value for the business and a reducing and offsetting carbon strong focus on CSR issues drives a emissions is a key component of its holistic approach to decision making sustainability agenda. from selection of raw materials down the supply chain to marketing and sales He has signed the CEO Water Mandate and end of life. and although the company per se uses little water, preference is given to When the company embarked on this suppliers who support a clean water whole of company environmental environmental policy and/or recycle agenda, its focus changed from water. producing fabrics based on a least cost approach to producing fabrics based on During this reporting period the CEO triple bottom line principles. This actively supported and was a approach continues today with triple participant in the UN Climate Change bottom line principles incorporating the discussions in New York in September principles of the UN Global Compact 2009 and in the Global Compact firmly entrenched in its corporate Leaders Summit in New York in June strategy. 2010. Challenges Sustainable Living Fabrics continues to face major challenges in successfully maintaining this program. The first and probably the most Australia (GECA), the company’s 3rd challenging continues to be limited party environmental product certifier, manpower. The demands of monitoring conducts an audit every 12 to 18 the supply chain and the company and months and a full supply chain review publicly reporting on a regular basis every three years. Global Compact and threaten to impede the company’s the CEO Water Mandate require sustainability agenda. communication of progress on a regular basis. Carbon neutral certification requires regular complicated and comprehensive reporting. Good Environmental Choice Sustainable Living Fabrics Sustainability Report 2010 6 Reporting does ensure that the environment but through skilful monitoring process is properly marketing are perceived as green. implemented but it places enormous Despite efforts made at government, time restraints on a small company. In UN and corporate levels, since 2005 it 2010 this was compounded by would appear that greenwash remains economic pressures which caused some an unabated threat and one that suppliers to close and ran the risk of requires consistent and enforceable some suppliers changing inputs to regulatory frameworks being reduce costs. This meant additional implemented and enforced globally. time in sourcing new suppliers and in closer monitoring of the supply chain. It The fourth major challenge is is estimated that the CEO alone spent combating the “me” factor. The “me” 15% of his time in maintaining, factor continues to limit growth of monitoring and reporting on the market share for sustainable products. integrity of the supply chain. Sustainable Living Fabrics’ market still proclaims its preference for green but is The second challenge is financial. As a typical of the community at large. As a small privately owned company, member of a community people want to Sustainable Living Fabrics does not do the right thing and will urge their have outside shareholder funds to draw governments to take environmental on. Investment in its CSR program action but as individuals, too often it is comes out of the owners’ pockets. In all about “me”. The Australian and the reporting year investment in State Governments promote green sustainability averaged 1% of turnover, procuring but too often budgetary or a significant expenditure item on any other factors lead to green being balance sheet. Although for most SMEs, overlooked in the final decision making. the cost of sustainability comes out of Profit, long term cost saving and the owners’ pockets, big business also sustainability can and should go hand in have hard choices to make and hand but, until stakeholders really care, shareholders are not always responsive the integrity of sustainable designs will to large expenditure items that do not continue to be compromised and the show an immediate and transparent financial benefits of embracing genuine return. It is no wonder therefore that so sustainability will be limited. many organisations continue to choose greenwash over accountable actions for Sustainable Living Fabrics’ has faced their approach to sustainability and it is enormous challenges in implementing an issue that Sustainable Living Fabrics its sustainability program but this urges the Global Compact to continue program differentiates it in the market to address. place and lifted it from a conservative textile company to a market leader The third challenge is greenwash. The where it remains and continues to set power of greenwash in stymieing real industry benchmarks and drive change environmental progress must be in the industry and the market. And on recognised. The reality is that the green a broader level, the focus on market still is not a level playing field. sustainability within companies is Not only do companies with a legitimate growing, particularly at an SME level. and comprehensive sustainability It is encouraging to note that since SLF agenda invest resources and funding committed to the Global Compact in into this but also they are then forced 2008, 75 participants have committed to compete with companies that have from Australia and 43% of these are made no real investment in the SMEs. Sustainable Living Fabrics Sustainability Report 2010 7 The Sustainable Business Model Investing in transparent sustainability makes economic sense Emily Jones Director for CSR Sustainable Living Fabrics’ Sustainable Labour Standards Business Model focuses on triple bottom (Principles 3, 4, 5 & 6) line reporting. It transparently The company upholds the freedom of embraces the United Nations Global association and the effective Compact philosophy that sustainability recognition of the right to collective is about comprehensive corporate social bargaining, the elimination of all forms responsibility to ensure that no activity of forced and compulsory labour, the of the business adversely impacts on effective abolition of child labour and any individual or community in terms of the elimination of discrimination in the ten international principles respect of employment and occupation. embracing not only the environment It regularly requires suppliers to but human rights, labour standards and confirm its commitment to ILO fair anti-corruption. labour practices and has had no instances of breaches of this Corporate Governance commitment. Quality corporate governance must have a legitimate framework. The Environment company has chosen the framework set (Principles 7, 8 & 9) out in the Australian Standard for CSR The company has embraced a – AS8003 and has a strong education sustainability agenda based on program to ensure all employees are independent certification and is aware of the standards. It aims to fully committed to undertaking initiatives to embrace and enact the principles of the promote greater environmental UN Global Compact and endeavours to responsibility and to encourage the incorporate them in every facet of the development and diffusion of business. It has had no instances of environmentally friendly technologies. corporate infringements. During the reporting period it was recertifed as 100% carbon neutral and Human Rights continued to meet the requirements of (Principles 1 & 2) its environmental labeling program The company is committed to GECA. supporting and respecting the protection of internationally proclaimed AntiCorruption human rights and to ensuring that it is (Principle 10) not complicit in human rights abuses. The company abhors corruption in all Its environmental credentials require its form and is committed to working regular valid confirmation that the against corruption including extortion company and supply chain respect the and bribery. rights of others. Its policy of transparency in all business transactions is successful and no Sustainable Living Fabrics Sustainability Report 2010 8 instances of corruption have been o Contributes 9% of employees’ reported during this period. gross income on a monthly basis to a retirement plan of their Responsibility choice. Good governance demands defining o Works with its suppliers to help responsibility for the CSR program. them meet its CSR standards and Responsibility for governance and respects their right to be paid compliance and implementation of the fairly and promptly. program lies with the CEO. The Director o Requires clear evidence that its of Sustainable Strategy and Marketing suppliers pay fair wages and develops the overall CSR strategy maintain OH&S standards to the working closely with the Director of CSR ILO guidelines. and Sales, and communicates this to o Respects the rights of its stakeholders. The Director of CSR and customers to be supplied high Sales is responsible for overseeing the quality product at a fair price program and for the societal issues – with good service and a high human rights, philanthropic programs, standard of quality control. anti-corruption, education and training o Educates and communicates with and not only for driving the Sales Team its market, ensuring that its to achieve sales targets but also for achievements are visible and well ensuring this is achieved without publicized providing a path for compromising company ethics, integrity influencing change in the market. or transparency. It is a workable o Educates and involves employees structure that enables the program to in its corporate agenda to ensure be managed without overstretching they uphold its ethics and limited resources. corporate philosophy. o Reviews and improves its In practice the company: program as an integral and o Strives to be ethical in all it does ongoing part of its corporate and monitors, assesses, strategy. evaluates and reports on its o Develops and maintains an activities and their environmental extensive CSR network including impact. participating in the UN Caring for o Ensures its environmental Climate platform, the UN CEO credentials are externally and Water Mandate, the UNAA, independently monitored, Greenhouse Challenge, GECA, assessed, verified and audited on the Green Building Council of a regular basis. Australia (GBCA), the o Financial reports are verified Commercial Textile Association externally. (CTA) and the Australian o Offers equal opportunity to all Industry Group. employees regardless of race, o Joined during the current year religion, sex or marital status. and actively participates in the o Provides a safe and healthy Voluntary Carbon Offset working environment for all Association and Green Capital. employees. o Participated in the first meeting o Pays good wages above the legal of signatories for the UN Caring minimum wage and respects the for Climate. rights and family responsibilities of employees. The Company has never been fined for non-compliance. Sustainable Living Fabrics Sustainability Report 2010 9 Environmental The heart of the sustainability program is the environment because this is where activities have the most adverse impacts. Like most companies, the available multi criteria, reflecting the administrative and warehouse significant environmental loads for operations including outward freight are textiles based on the whole product life an insignificant part of its cycle. environmental footprint. The main issues continue to be with the supply As a commission manufacturer, chain. Sustainable Living Fabrics does not own the manufacturing facilities but owns To keep it simple, the company has the materials being processed. This determined to use an internationally gives it flexibility to choose to have its recognised environmental standard that materials processed wherever it is best breaks down the complexity into clear, for cost, quality, service and the transparent and quantifiable criteria. environment. Although more suppliers have moved to a more environmental The GECA Ecolabel model of operation providing a wider Standard for Textiles choice for processing, these are tough reflects the EU Ecolabel economic times and during the Textile standard and reporting period several suppliers went extends to social out of business challenging the issues. Assessment is company to source alternative suppliers by independent third who met its strict environmental and party audit at all stages of production social criteria. to a clear and transparent, environmental, multi criteria standard To the best of its knowledge no reflecting best environmental practice. processing operations impact on protected areas or areas of high Environmental standards are biodiversity and the supply chain has complex. It is hard to know what is been audited to ensure no emissions involved, and so stories are built adversely impact on the environment. around them according to the needs Ongoing, the company seeks suppliers of the supplier and the consumer with a commitment to the environment and they are subjected to as much and ensures its suppliers are educated greenwash as any environmental on the requirements of the GECA claim. Ecolabel Standard. It works with them to ensure they continue to comply and However, a transparent standard requires regular independent proof of addressing the main environmental environmental claims for every input loads based on the whole of product life into producing its fabrics. Energy cycle does make it simpler. sources, water usage, recycling programs and a commitment to change Although it is the most challenging are taken into account as suppliers are option, this is why Sustainable Living retained or replaced by others more Fabrics chose the GECA Textile Ecolabel receptive to the company’s objectives. as the standard to meet for every fabric Suppliers have changed the detergents, it stocks. To minimize its the chemicals and the dyestuffs they environmental footprint, every fabric stocked is assessed against the publicly Sustainable Living Fabrics Sustainability Report 2010 10 use for the fabrics and tackled toxic environmental textiles increases, more emissions and water pollution. and more suppliers are willing and able to meet these requirements and costs Increasingly some suppliers are are becoming more competitive. adopting environmental processes over and above what Sustainable Living Sustainable Living Fabrics has totally Fabrics initially demanded of them and committed to a genuine sustainability are implementing these environmental program by having every product practices into standard production. In certified to carry the GECA Ecolabel a sustainability program where the and/or certified to be 100% carbon environmental cost is more important neutral. than the financial cost, these are preferred suppliers. Initially the To be sustainable there is no choice but company had less flexibility and the to minimize the environmental and cost was higher to achieve its social impact in every facet of the sustainability targets but as demand for business and its supply chain. Caring for Climate Caring for Climate is a voluntary and complementary action platform for UN Global Compact participants who seek to demonstrate leadership on the issue of climate change. Caring for Climate provides a this is not good governance for framework for business leaders sustainability. to advance practical solutions and help shape public policy as well as In 2007 therefore, it chose to be public attitudes. CEOs supporting the independently audited by a third party statement are prepared to set goals, and joined the Australian Government’s develop and expand strategies and Greenhouse Challenge, committing to practices, and to publicly disclose the government to assess, monitor, emissions as part of their existing reduce and report on greenhouse gas disclosure commitment within the UN emissions. The Company produces Global Compact framework, that is, the externally audited reports annually. Communication on Progress (COP). In additiion, every Sustainable Living Fabrics signed the product carries carbon Caring for Climate initiative in May neutral certification 2008. under the Australian Government In 2006 Sustainable Living Fabrics had Greenhouse Friendly set about reviewing the greenhouse gas Initiative (GHF)which impact of its complete supply chain, involves assessing, monitoring, from raw materials to final fabric and reducing, offsetting and reporting on beyond, to encompass the eventual greenhouse gas emissions attributable recycling of the product at end of life, to its product supply chain from raw or its disposal to landfill. When it was materials to end of life. It demands all added up it came to almost 6000 extensive annual reporting which is tons of CO2 equivalents and this was third party verified and then audited by offset by planting 22000 trees through agents of the government. Greenfleet for the year ending June In May 2007 Sustainable Living Fabrics 2006. But this was self-assessing and became the 10th Company in Australia Sustainable Living Fabrics Sustainability Report 2010 11 to have product certified carbon neutral carbon dioxide, is converted to an under the GHF Program and the first alternative fuel source. This means its and only manufacturer and emissions are offset today, not in the wholesaler of finished goods to have future as is the case with trees. 100% of its product certified carbon neutral under this program. Proposed changes to government policy Sustainable Living Fabrics also was on national carbon offsets were certified a carbon neutral company foreshadowed but still not promulgated under the program and produces an during this reporting period and will annual externally audited report on affect choice of offsets in the future. If carbon emissions and offsets these these changes proceed, Sustainable emissions for ongoing certification. The Living Fabrics will have no choice but to company continues to be a leader in use offshore offsets. This is not a independently certified carbon neutral situation with which it is comfortable. products setting industry benchmarks Using local offsets provides funding for that no other textile company has Australian companies to invest in attained. In the current year, carbon technology to reduce greenhouse gas offsets were through the Australian emissions. From an environmental Government Greenhouse Gas point of view, providing funding to Abatement Program where each overseas companies still works for the program has been independently environment but philosophically the verified and audited by the company believes Australia should be Government. The company chose a acting more aggressively in relation to waste dump program where the its carbon emissions. methane, which is 21 times worse than Leanwool® and LEAP® the eco wool as a byproduct, so that by LEAP® is a prime example of applying internationally accepted life cycle principles the environmental an innovative supply chain and impact would be shared between the was the first Australian ethical meat and the eco wool according to the eco wool purchasing program dollar income from each. Additional to this, it specified that the farms act to for upholstery fabrics. minimize use of chemicals to protect aquatic life and to practice rotational or other eco grazing methods to minimise the impact of cloven hooves on the fragile environment. The sheep were not to be mulesed and preference given to farms implementing other sustainable measures such as tree planting programs or with a certified environmental management system in In 2005, Sustainable Living Fabrics place. This wool is called leanwool®. could not fail to see that greasy wool was its biggest source of greenhouse In 2006, the Company established the gas emissions and carried its heaviest LEAP® scheme to ensure a reliable environmental load. It determined to supply of low pesticide leanwool®. source suitable ethically produced eco LEAP® is a prime example of an wool from sheep grown for meat, with innovative supply chain. It is one of Sustainable Living Fabrics’ finest Sustainable Living Fabrics Sustainability Report 2010 12 achievements. LEAP® offers a good developing a reliable supply of premium above market price and the environmentally preferable wool for the farmer avoids the auction system with global textile market. payment made when the leanwool® is tested and certified low pesticide by LEAP® was the first Australian ethical CSIRO. If the leanwool® fails the low eco wool purchasing program at the pesticide test, the farm is dropped from farm level for upholstery fabrics and the program until it consistently meets Sustainable Living Fabrics is proud that the standard and time and effort is then during this reporting period other put into helping the farm solve the upholstery companies have followed its problem. LEAP® has had a positive lead and developed ethical eco wool economic impact on farmers providing supply chains. a dedicated niche market for their wool and has driven environmental change On a more everyday scale the at the farm level. The LEAP scheme has company: grown from 4 farms in 2006 to over o Has chosen to be powered by 160 Australian farms. Initially, the green energy and prefers ethical eco wool from LEAP® was suppliers using green energy. exclusively for Sustainable Living o Reuses all plastic wrapping from Fabrics but now the program has grown fabric delivered to the sufficiently so that during this year the warehouse. Company made it available to the wider o When it has to buy, it buys only market and LEAP® now provides an recycled plastic. ongoing supply of eco wool to mills o Reclaims cardboard tubes from internationally. For the farmers, customer for storing and LEAP® rewards their environmental shipping fabric efforts and offers a niche market for o Uses recycled cardboard and wool that previously had an uncertain paper and recycles/reuses these. market. o Has installed low ballast lights, turns lights off when not in use LEAP® brings synergy across the whole and turns off computers and supply chain from the farm to the other equipment at the switch. customer and has contributed to a o Fans are used instead of airsignificant reduction in the company’s conditioning which is only turned greenhouse gas emissions. on when the inside temperature goes above 28 degrees and the natural gas heating is used only when the inside temperature drops below 17 degrees. The cost of the carbon neutral program comes straight off the bottom line and the cost of offsets is a driver to further reduce carbon emissions. However, with such large reductions in emissions already achieved, further reductions are challenging and the company is proud There is no doubt that LEAP® is a that it continues to maintain reduced highly successful program not only in emission levels. driving environmental change but in Sustainable Living Fabrics Sustainability Report 2010 13 CEO Water Mandate The CEO Water Mandate was launched in July 2007 as a private-public initiative designed to assist companies in the development, implementation and disclosure of water sustainability policies and practices. The CEO Water Mandate recognizes in the year ending 31 March 2010 the that the business sector, through the number of participating employees production of goods and services, doubled and average useage person impacts on water resources – both dropped by a further 26% over the directly and through supply chains. previous period. In April 2008, the CEO of Sustainable Living Fabrics, Bill Jones, endorsed the The company has worked hard to: CEO Water Mandate recognizing that o Identify areas of water use in the with more than one billion people supply chain and its own offices. lacking access to clean water, every o Identify areas where water use can company, large or small, has a role to be reduced. play in advancing practical water o Identify areas where chemical use management. can be reduced. o Prohibit the use of chemicals Sustainable Living Fabrics is a identified as harmful to humans or commission manufacturer and to aquatic life. wholesaler of textiles. It recognizes that o Achieve independent, transparent clean water is a valuable and scarce certification of the supply chain to resource and its sustainability agenda ensure chemicals harmful to human specifically addresses water quality. or aquatic life do not contaminate wastewater. Its direct operations contribute less o Educate the supply chain to ensure than .01% of its water use but it has it meets the company’s identified that one area where it can requirements. continue to make a difference is in o Educate employees to ensure water use in its offices and by responsible water use. employees in their homes. Company o Implement a transparent reporting premises are rented and after extensive system for water usage. Implement lobbying of the landlord, dual flush an annual Water Saving Competition toilets were installed. Engaging to take water conservation into the employees with the company’s community and employees homes. environmental agenda has encouraged o Encourage the landlord to fit dual them to minimise their water use. flush toilets in offices. o Educate clients and the broader The KISS Water Saving Competition for community on the benefits of employees, family and colleagues took independent environmental the sustainability agenda into their certification as a tool to achieve real homes. It has a prize pool of $1000 and environmental progress. Sustainable Living Fabrics Sustainability Report 2010 14 Supply Chain and Watershed Management Although Sustainable Living Fabrics is small it believes that every drop counts and the actions it takes can have meaningful results. The company is committed to reducing wool fabrics sold over polyester. This water consumption and ensuring its still represents a decrease of 49% over operations do not adversely impact on the base year 2004. any community or individual. It recognizes that clean water is a The Green Living Collection has over valuable and scarce resource and its 400 upholstery fabrics and every one sustainability agenda specifically carries the Good Environmental Choice addresses water quality. Use of Australia (GECA) Ecolabel or equivalent. chemicals that adversely affect water The GECA Ecolabel Standard for quality or aquatic life is prohibited and Textiles prohibits the use of chemicals the supply chain is regularly third party and dyestuffs known to adversely affect audited to ensure that there are no humans or aquatic life. breaches of this policy. The company has engaged with its In 2005, acknowledging that every supply chain to ensure it continually company has a responsibility to commit adheres to the GECA standard in to a comprehensive and meaningful production of its fabrics. GECA audits water management program, it the supply chain. For example, all introduced supply chain and water ethical eco wool used in the production management changes that led to a of its fabrics is from the company’s reduction in water use of 62% over the innovative LEAP® Program described base year 2004. It continues to actively above, which requires all eco wool to contribute to meaningful water meet the EU Ecolabel Standard for management through its transparent Textiles for 32 pesticides. The chart sustainability agenda and its below compares pesticide content for engagement with the supply chain, two commonly used pesticides employees and the community. In the detrimental to aquatic life (dfb or reporting period, water use increased diflubenzuron and tfm or triflumuron) in 46% over the previous year reflecting a typical wool against the GECA standard corresponding increase in metres of and eco wool from the LEAP® Program. 12 dfb tfm 10 8 ppm 6 4 2 0 Typical Wool G ECA S tandard SLF Ecowool Insect G rowth Regulator Pesticide Residue on G reasy W ool Sustainable Living Fabrics Sustainability Report 2010 15 Supply Chain and Watershed Management contd Where practical, preference is given to programme discussed above and suppliers that recycle water and it complemented by savings achieved by sources raw materials to ensure water using a scourer that recycles 80% of its consumption is effectively managed. water. The preferred dye house in previous years that recycled 40% of its The changes that were required to water closed but the company is now ensure that every fabric stocked carried working with a dye house that has the GECA Ecolabel commenced implementing plans to were significant and recycle 80% of water by 2013. further reductions in its environmental impact For comparison purposes, 2004 FY is relating to water are the base year as it is the year prior to limited by technology the beginning of changes noted above. and available The target was set at 40% by 2006 to environmentally preferable inputs. be maintained into the future. The target has been exceeded each year. These limitations are beyond the The fluctuations post 2006 reflect the control of the company and make it ratio of wool to polyester fabrics sold. difficult to continue to achieve As more wool fabrics are sold, water significant further reductions in its use will increase. environmental impacts. Sustainable Living Fabrics recognizes In 2004 the impact of water usage by that by taking such a giant step regular the supply chain was identified and and significant reductions beyond this changes initiated but not fully will be difficult to achieve but it is implemented until 2006. The water committed to continue to set water savings are significant and are the targets and monitor and report on result of the LEAP water use. 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 (base) Water saving/metre of fabric over 0% 3% 50.7% 49.2% 45.8% 63.9% 49% base year 2004 Sustainable Living Fabrics Sustainability Report 2010 16 . Society Societal issues underpin Sustainable Living Fabrics’ sustainability agenda, ensuring that the company and its product supply chain are not adversely impacting on society – on any community or any individual. To be successful, CSR philosophies issues beyond employees’ control when must be embedded in the Company they need special leave. Parents can go culture and be functional and to school events involving their legitimate. children, they can leave early if their child minding arrangements fall through In achieving GECA certification for all or they can negotiate to work shorter its stocked fabrics the company has to hours to enable them to be there for prove that labour principles to ILO their children before and after school. standards were upheld all the way If they need time to visit their bank down the supply chain in Australia and manager or their accountant, to buy a overseas. Site visits ensure house or wait for the plumber, they compliance. know it will be given. Care of dependent relatives, particularly aging With its Australian suppliers, fair parents and preschool age children, wages and working conditions are not places a stress on some employees and an issue but overseas, particularly in they can and do negotiate for shorter countries not subscribing to ILO days or certain days off. It is a principles, it is essential to find and reflection of the level of trust and then monitor suppliers who in addition engagement throughout the to meeting the company’s internal organization. environmental standards meet ILO standards for employment, even when A number of initiatives that Sustainable this means being far above the local Living Fabrics has taken are more legal requirements. societal than directly related to the formal environmental program. The chosen suppliers genuinely care about the environment and also value Each year the company joins Earth their employees and respect their Hour and encourages employees also to rights. Increasingly such companies participate. Turning off lights for one are becoming more common. hour at the appointed time creates an awareness of how often they use more Sustainable Living Fabrics respects the power than they need and also how work-life balance of its employees. The every little action can make a company appreciates that employees difference. The 30,000 trees, planted all have families and external activities through the Murray Darling Rescue that they are involved in and a healthy Program will continue to have a positive work-life balance leads to a happier, impact on water management and more productive and thus more carbon emissions for many years to valuable employee. Leave is given come. It is a real investment for society when needed and requested and it is in the future. recognized that sometimes there are Sustainable Living Fabrics Sustainability Report 2010 17 The Sustainable Business Model KISS Keep it Simple Sustainably The KISS Keep it Simple Sustainably program was established in early 2007. It now has a prize pool of $3500 and aims to encourage staff to take company principles and extend them into their personal lives. KISS, Water Saving Competition is Transport is another area where the designed to encourage employees to company’s CSR philosophy endeavours save water at home. It recognises that to change employees’ way of thinking water is a precious resource especially to reduce emissions. It reimburses in Australia. During the reporting fares of staff that travel to work by period, staff reduced their water public transport. The employee uptake consumption by 26% and the number of this initiative has been disappointing of participating employees doubled. It to date with only one employee is a clear demonstration of using an regularly using public transport. This embedded CSR culture to drive change possibly reflects the fact that most beyond the Company. employees live in areas not serviced by a direct rail line or bus service to their In 2008 the KISS program was work site and several have family extended it to KISS Turn it Off Now commitments to meet after work. for Electricity and KISS Give Back 40, a volunteering program where the KISS Give Back 40 is an exciting company gives employees up to 40 volunteer initiative in which a number hours paid leave a year for of employees have engaged. The volunteering. program offers employees up 40 hours fully paid leave each year to do KISS Turn it OFF Now has not had the volunteer work for a charitable or same significant results as KISS Water environmental program that would be Saving. As electricity usage is more unable to exist effectively without direct and easier to manage it is volunteer workers. assumed employees have been taking measures to reduce their electricity use Programs chosen have included B4C, prior to the introduction of KISS. Globalteer Cambodia Kids Project, Nevertheless it has achieved its North Head Quarantine Station and purpose in engaging employees in Turtle Tagging in Broome. environmental initiatives beyond the company. Sustainable Living Fabrics Sustainability Report 2010 18 Socially Responsible Practices – Human Rights Sustainable Living Fabrics is opposed at Sustainable Living Fabrics supports and all levels to the use of bribery and actively participates in the UN Global corruption to facilitate profit making by Compact including the CEO Water companies. This can and does occur at Mandate and the Caring for Climate many levels in every industry. Even initiative, the Global Compact Australia green washing is a subtle form of fraud. Network, United Nations Association of It is unacceptable and removes any Australia, Green Building Council of chance of a level playing field in the Australia, Green Capital, the Voluntary market. The temptation is always there Carbon Market Association and others. and opportunities invariably present Representatives of the company themselves from external sources. attended the first meeting of signatories to Caring For Climate in However the Sustainable Living Fabrics Geneva in October 2008. ethos empowers all staff to do the right thing. It provides its employees with The company regularly communicates certified facts relating to its products, its position in public speaking remunerates its employees well, listens engagements and presentations to to their needs and takes appropriate clients and lobbies appropriate groups action. All employees in contact with on environmental and human rights the market are trained to recognise and issues. avoid bribery and corruption and there are no reported incidents of corrupt It also supports the World Vision Don’t practices. Trade Lives Campaign recognizing that child slavery is widespread and The company has never had legal unacceptable in any form. action taken against it for breaches of human rights, anti competitive behaviour or monopoly practices nor has it been fined or sanctioned for noncompliance with laws and regulations. The company does not donate to political parties Sustainable Living Fabrics Sustainability Report 2010 19 Overall “The Sustainable Living Fabrics CSR agenda represents the corporate leadership that is essential for the transformation to sustainable markets and the achievement of societal goals” Kay Jones Director Sustainable Strategy and Marketing Over the reporting period Sustainable Living Fabrics has initiated and The company’s education program consolidated environmental, social and deals honestly and fairly with many corporate governance programs and issues that its customers and suppliers incentives that reflect its commitment do not have time to research. to the principles of the Global Compact, stakeholders and the wider social Its CSR claims are transparent and its community. Its sustainability and CSR achievements offer a solution that strategy has created a level of trust in provides security and comfort in the it as a company and in its products. An fact that procurement decisions are extensive education campaign involving based on the truth. over 5000 companies has enabled it to share its philosophies and The Sustainable Living Fabrics’ strategy achievements and also to give these constantly pushes CSR boundaries to companies the knowledge to make an achieve real change. It has proved a informed choice and the power to join socially responsible, competitive in the journey towards true pathway to success in a very tough sustainability and social responsibility. market. Sustainable Living Fabrics Sustainability Report 2010 20 Performance Indicators Economic Performance This relates only to the Company and absolute levels of revenue but to not to the supply chain. provide an indicator of its revenue as less than $10M and report the As a private Company, for commercial parameters as percentage values. reasons it has chosen not to report Component 2010 Revenues <$10M Operating Costs 88.2% of revenue Employee Wages and Benefits 15.1% of revenue Payments to Providers of Capital 6.3% of revenue Payments to government 6.4% of revenue Grants from government 3.4% of revenue Spending on local suppliers 90.1% of revenue Community Investments 0.2% of revenue Economic value retained 12.2% of revenue Materials This section covers the whole supply chain from creation of raw materials The table below indicates materials through to disposal at end of life except used of which 14.3% are recycled where it is stated otherwise. inputs. This reflects the company’s total commitment to a sustainable future. Materials Used Component Tonnes Wool 54.1 Polyester 25.0 Nylon 0.7 Processing oils 1 Dyestuffs 1.2 Packaging 14.4 Sustainable Living Fabrics Sustainability Report 2010 21 Energy Sustainable Living Fabrics is a small For the reporting period CO2e per organisation with its main energy kilogram of product sold was 36.48 load indirect energy and most kilograms. relating to the supply chain. To simplify this performance indicator, The company has initiated energy the Company has chosen to use saving measures within the CO2e emissions attributed to the company. Low ballast lighting has company and the product supply been installed in the warehouse, chain. fans are used in preference to airconditioning, renewable energy is These figures have been extracted used for heating when the from the annual externally audited temperature drops below 18°C, and report for the Company’s carbon lights and appliances including neutral program and are expressed computers are switched off when as kilograms of CO2e per kilogram of not in use. product sold. G reenhous e G as E mis s ions 90 80 70 60 50 Kgs CO2e per Kg fabric 40 sold 30 20 10 0 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 Sustainable Living Fabrics Sustainability Report 2010 22 Performance Indicators Water the methane from the sheep and this Water is discussed in detail under the contributed to 41.2 of all CO2e Section CEO Water Mandate. emissions in the reporting period. The source of water in the production of Waste the wool is a mixture of surface water, Using industry norms for processing, ground water and rainwater varying 17.1 tonnes of waste went to according to weather conditions. In composting, 2.4 tonnes were recycled drought conditions rainwater is scarce and 2.5 tonnes went to landfill. and more ground water is used. Water used in processing comes from the The Company had no hazardous waste municipal water supply. 46% of water during the reporting period and no used in processing was recycled. significant chemical spills. All water discharged in the supply chain 9.5% of packaging delivered to was treated and discharged into the customers is reclaimed for reuse. local sewerage systems. The quality of the discharged water is constantly Waste fabric is used for sampling and monitored to ensure it complies with sampling recycled where appropriate. environmental regulations and the GECA criteria. Design for the Environment GECA certification ensures Greenhouse Gas Emissions environmental impacts are minimized The Australian Government has and these are reported on the EPD independently audited the Company available at www.geca.org.au and its supply chain for greenhouse gas emissions under the Greenhouse Fabrics are designed so that they do Friendly Certification Initiative. Our not require back coating and can be calculations meet Greenhouse Friendly readily reused or recycled at end of life. (GHF) requirements. The calculations No current fabrics in the market at the cover creation of the wool and time of reporting have reached end of polyester, direct and indirect energy life. sources, transport of materials between sites and waste and emissions. The company has an accessible Emissions included 70.2 tonnes of CO2e Recycling Program. emissions for the Company’s own travel. Total greenhouse gas emissions Transport represent 36.48 kgs per kg of fabric Transport of product within the supply sold compared with 77.5kgs in the base chain and to the customer created 68.1 year 2004. The most significant tonnes of CO2e emissions from fossil greenhouse gas in the supply chain is based fuels. Sustainable Living Fabrics Sustainability Report 2010 23 Social Performance Labour Practices labour, child labour, and working This section is restricted to the conditions to ILO guidelines. Partly due Company. to this screening process for suppliers and partly because of our own Employees have individual written insistence that employees are treated contracts, which comprehensively fairly, the company has had no known specify terms and conditions of instances of discrimination based on employment such as period of notice sex, religion or race and no evidence of and leave entitlements in line with legal restrictions on freedom of association. requirements. All employees in the warehouse have the opportunity to Society meet with management weekly to Only the Company is reported on. discuss OH &S issues and during the reporting period the company has had Product Responsibility no injury or absenteeism other than for The report is confined to the Company normal background illnesses in the and does not cover the supply chain. community. The Company has no formal agreements with any Trade Every product is certified fit for purpose Union. and certified low VOC emitting. Fabrics are certified to meet industry fire No program exists to equip employees standards. The company has not been for career ending but it regularly notified of any breaches of health and reviews the performance of all safety requirements or labeling laws. It employees to ensure they are equipped has never been fined for nonto develop within the Company. compliance to laws and regulations concerning the use of its fabrics. The Directors communicate with employees on a daily basis. Every piece of fabric dispatched to the customer is clearly labeled with country Equal opportunity is embedded in the of origin, fabric name defining fibre Company culture and male and females content, and after care instructions are given equal opportunities and are detailing how to care for the fabric in paid on an equal basis according to the use. work they do. Sustainable Living Fabrics respects the Human Rights confidentiality of customer details and This covers the Company and its supply has not received any complaints from chain. Human rights are an integral customers, directly or indirectly, part of company culture. The GECA reflecting any breach of this Ecolabel covers human rights issues confidentiality. and all suppliers have been audited for fair wages, bonded labour, slave Contact Details: Further information regarding this report can be obtained on our website http://www.greenliving.com.au or by emailing environment@greenliving.com.au Sustainable Living Fabrics Sustainability Report 2010 24
