Sustainability Report 2012 Year ended March 31, 2012 Environmental Consciousness of this Publication This Sustainability Report 2012 is printed on paper approved by the Forest Stewardship Council at a green printing certified plant using waterless printing, which is highly effective in reducing volatile organic compounds (VOC). In addition, the computer-to-plate (CTP) method of printing is used to eliminate the intermediary materials required for the platemaking process. Corporate Social Responsibility Department Administration Division USHIO INC. 2-6-1, Otemachi, Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo 100-8150, Japan TEL: 03-3242-1892 FAX: 03-3245-0730 E-mail:kankyo@ushio.co.jp http://www.ushio.co.jp 1209G -5000S Printed in Japan Sustainability Report 2012 01 Contents USHIO unlocks the potential of Editorial Policy C2 USHIO Group Management Philosophy light to develop solutions for In choosing the material for this Sustainability Report 2012, we made an effort to report in greater depth on the correlation between management and corporate social respon01 Editorial Policy sibility (CSR) issues. The report was created mainly for the following stakeholder audithe entire planet ence, while emphasizing links with our Annual Report and various other media for communicating our corporate activities. 02 Top Message 1) Approach to Materiality 05 Feature: Dialogue and the exchange of opinions with our stakeholders guided us in narrowing Part 1 Healing with Light Today, the world faces global pressure down the most important social issues confronting corporations and USHIO’s numerous CSR initiatives. Part 2  hototherapy and P relating to issues like the environment, This booklet reports on issues and initiatives that were judged to be of high imporExcimer Filters the scale of the human population, and tance. Other initiatives too numerous to mention are introduced on the Group’s website. the need for energy. USHIO believes that 10 USHIO’s CSR the power of light is part of the solution. Approach to Materiality at the USHIO Group 14 Governance We are using the technology that the High High Corporate Governance and Company has acquired over decades of Rank C Rank B Rank A Compliance operation, and our skill at applying and Importance to stakeholders developing that technology, to provide s Reporting 16 People tie in printed solutions, in the hope that USHIO, as ivi f ac t material Working Together with Employees well as human society, can continue to eo anc Reporting through rt grow and prosper. po web and other media 18 Quality c im si Int rin Relationships with Customers and Business Partners High Importance to USHIO 21 Society Relationship with Society 2) Annual Report For detailed information about the USHIO Group’s busi22 Environment ness activities, please see our Annual Report 2012, and our Group website. Environmental Activities 24 Business Overview USHIO Group Management 25 Third-Party Opinion Philosophy The Management Philosophy that underpins all activities of USHIO Group employees was revised in fiscal 2004. The new philosophy retains the spirit of the “Basic Policy” that was formulated when the Company was first founded, while also • Use of Website recognizing the social issues that have We provide more comprehensive and detailed reporting on our corporate website. Please refer to the USHIO corporate website at the link shown below for more • The Tri-colored Leaf—A Symbol of the emerged with the changing times. Our detail on items marked by the following symbol. USHIO Group’s Activities The Tri-colored Leaf that appears on the cover of this Management Philosophy therefore calls us http://www.ushio.co.jp/en/csr/index.html report is designed to symbolize the three primary colors to “fulfill our corporate social responsibility.” of light in a budding leaf motif that symbolizes the natural • Scope of Report environment. At the same time, the design represents Time period: This report basically covers fiscal 2012 (April 1, 2011 to March 31, 2012), but three elements of sustainable management—financial also includes some continuing activities from before fiscal 2011, and some activiviability (red), social responsibility (blue), and regard for the environment (green). Our goal is to grow each of ties in fiscal 2013. Fiscal 2012 and fiscal 2013 are years ended march 31, 2012 these leaves through steady, daily activities, until they and 2013. produce a powerful trunk. Organizations: All USHIO INC. business sites and Group companies worldwide 02 Sustainability Report 2012 03 Top Message In fiscal 2013, we expect the business outlook to remain uncertain. Nevertheless, the USHIO Group is committed to meeting the targets set in the Medium-Term Vision. We foreIn fiscal 2012, USHIO sought to embed cast net sales to increase by 9.9% year on year in fiscal 2013 to ¥165.0 billion. Operating corporate social responsibility (CSR) income is projected to rise 12.2% to ¥12.0 billion, ordinary income by 10.6% to ¥14.5 billion, and net income by 14.3% to ¥10.0 billion. activities in day-to-day operations by drafting a CSR Action Plan (Policy) Medium-Term Vision designed to clarify CSR issues to be USHIO announced its Medium-Term Vision in May 2012. In imaging equipment, our task is addressed. We did this because we to retain profitability in the digital cinema business while spurring growth in the non-cinema recognized that CSR is going to become business, which will drive future growth. In optical equipment, our range of products supeven more critical to business activities. porting the manufacture of LCD panels, semiconductors and high-precision PCBs are posiThis perspective is especially important in tioned as growth drivers. We are also quickly considering ways to establish our leading-edge lithography business (EUV) for use in next-generation semiconductor manufacfields where USHIO is enacting long-term turing, and have this contribute to profits. USHIO is also aggressively developing operations initiatives in pursuit of future growth. in fields connected to social issues such as medicine and the environment. By enacting these measures, we are aiming to achieve net sales of ¥200.0 billion and operating income of ¥25.0 billion by fiscal 2015. Vision for the USHIO Group The objective of this new Medium-Term Vision is to establish the USHIO Group as the “Light Innovation Company” with the world’s No. 1 technology and branding in light-related business, able to propose solutions that fully satisfy customers’ needs at all times. Essentially, we have taken it upon ourselves to search for ways to use light to address new factors, explore new fields and develop new solutions for customers. Our efforts in electronics over the years have seen the Group offer products in response to demands for new processes and functions. Growth for the Group has always come in step with new applications for light and new light-related products. The USHIO Group remains committed to meeting light-related needs in the fields of video and imaging. At the same time, from a long-term perspective we are proactively addressing areas such as the environResults of Operations and Future Outlook ment, medicine and biotechnology, as well as fields that seek to resolve social issues. WhatFirst up is a look at USHIO today in terms of business performance. In fiscal 2012, net sales ever our customers or the public truly needs, our vision for the USHIO Group is that we will increased by 3.4% year on year to ¥150 billion. Operating income declined by 23.8% to become a “Light Innovation Company” able to meet those needs first. ¥10.6 billion, ordinary income fell 24.5% to ¥13.1 billion and net income was down 8.7% to ¥8.7 billion. The main factor supporting sales growth was a strong surge in the equipment business, and in particular, a 14% year-on-year rise in sales of imaging equipment. Net sales Operating income/ Net income/ However, the market for light sources stagnated, and the equipment business was Operating income ratio Return on equity (ROE) affected by a slump in the electronics industry in Japan. The situation was exacerbated by (Billions of yen) (Billions of yen) (%) (Billions of yen) (%) 20.0 rapid yen appreciation, particularly in the early autumn, which depressed profits at all levels. 200 20 20 20 12 9.4 148.1 145.1 150.0 150 15 13.5 14.0 15 15 15.4 9 120.8 119.0 10.6 6.2 9.7 5.6 100 10 8.9 10 10 6 4.7 9.5 7.2 8.7 Financial Performance 7.4 7.1 2.3 7.0 (Millions of yen) 50 5 6.1 5 5 3 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 3.4 Net Sales 148,148 120,846 119,079 145,125 150,087 0 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 0 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 0 0 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 0 Operating Income 20,050 8,963 7,262 14,034 10,696 Operating income (left scale) Net income (left scale) Net Income 15,486 3,481 7,071 9,577 8,748 Operating income ratio (right scale) Return on equity (right scale) Return On Equity (ROE) (%) 9.4 2.3 4.7 6.2 5.6 Years ended March 31 Years ended March 31 04 Top Message Sustainability Report 2012 05 Feature: part 1 Healing with Light Part 2 Phototherapy and part Vital Human Resources for an Era of Transformation The diversification and globalization of market needs has gained momentum over the past Excimer Filters several years. As our markets spread to emerging countries across Asia and beyond, this radically different environment has the potential to generate completely new needs. This landscape requires people capable of experiencing and offering firsthand feedback on this Yuta Hanamoto is a typical fifth-grader who loves bugs, books and change, and connecting this to the development of products through cooperation between playing Pokemon™, and lives with his parents and older sister. Japan and local markets, and to business. Looking at the Group as a whole, there are already more foreign workers in our ranks than Japanese staff. Promoting diversity therefore One morning when Yuta was in first grade, his parents noticed is crucial to creating new possibilities and realizing growth. something peculiar as Yuta prepared to go happily off to school. I believe that we live in an era today not simply of change, but of transformation; and that They saw that the area around Yuta’s mouth had a dull, whitish the ongoing globalization we see is just one aspect of this. This means, of course, that appearance. Thinking his face was just a little dirty, Yuta’s mother many of the ways that things were done and conceptualized before are no longer effective. But it also means that we live in a time when minor improvements and changes are simply proceeded to wipe it, but to no avail. not enough. Through a CSR perspective, USHIO committed to creating new value and drivAfter visiting a dermatologist, Yuta was diagnosed as having ing ongoing transformation and change to meet the expectations of our customers and of vitiligo, a condition in which white patches form on the skin. While global society. phototherapy was known to be an effective treatment, previous devices used for the therapy carried the danger of exposing October 2012 healthy skin to ultraviolet rays as well. “Because our son was still so young, we were worried,” recalls Yuta’s father. “We were then introduced to Yahata Municipal Hospital in the city of Kitakyushu, where they had a phototherapy device that had minimal side Shiro Sugata effects even for small children.” President and Chief Executive Officer Looking back on that time, Yuta’s father recalls the therapy sessions. “At first, we had to take him to the hospital once a week. The treatment itself only took about 10 seconds, but it took us 40 minutes to drive there. So that was tough. But about a month after What the USHIO Group Should Aim For the first treatment, the white spots on his skin began turning red. Aim to become a “Light Innovation Company” with the world’s No. 1 technology and branding in light-related business Once the redness left, his healthy skin color returned. The times able to propose solutions that fully satisfy customers’ needs at all times. between his treatments have also gradually gotten longer, and now Medium-Term Vision he only needs to go in once every six months.” FY2015 Quantitative Target Key Business Strategies “Yuta is growing up nice and strong,” says Dr. Fujino with a Imaging Equipment Ensuring profits in the digital cinema business smile. The dermatologist has been treating Yuta since first grade Net sales ¥200.0 billion Growth and expansion of the non-cinema business (growth driver) Optical Equipment Provision of products that underpin the manufacturing of LCD panels, semiconducwhen his symtoms first began. “Both parents are always with him tors, and high precision PCBs (growth driver) Operating income ¥25.0 billion Lithography tools: Synergy with ADTEC Engineering for the long trip in. Yuta has a very loving family, and they are Equipment for LCD panel manufacturing: Expansion into fields other than largesized TVs Sales expansion of new processes determined to overcome this together.” ROE More than 10% Establish leading-edge lithography business (EUV) for the manufacturing of nextgeneration semiconductor products Today, Yuta is completely absorbed in playing videogames with Others New products and businesses (medical, life science) Solid-state light sources his friends. When asked what it’s like to undergo the treatment, he Promotion of business alliances, joint ventures, and M&A replies with a laugh, “It doesn’t hurt at all.” 06 Feature Sustainability Report 2012 07 Part 1 Interview with a Doctor Healing with Light Perspective from a clinical setting The root cause of vitiligo is still unclear, making it one of the more difficult skin ailments to treat. Although there is no pain associated with the condition, its symptoms are plainly visible to the eye. In many ways, this makes the psychological burden associated with the illness more challenging than the condition itself. While oral and topical medications have been Are you familiar with autoimmune diseases? These ailments are considered a type available for treating vitiligo, these treatment options often yield little success. When I of allergic reaction, and many people suffer from them. With autoimmune decided to install a phototherapy device as another treatment option, I chose one from USHIO. Since the product is made in Japan, the level of UV radiation used is optimally suited diseases, instead of attacks by outside bacteria, viruses and other microbes, a to the skin quality of my patients. person’s own normally protective immune cells (white blood cells) suddenly begin Even so, I initially had doubts about whether the therapy would actually work. But after to attack the body itself, causing symptoms to emerge. Therapeutic approaches Yahata Municipal Hospital using the system, I can now say that it has performed above and beyond what I ever imag(City of Kitakyushu), Dermatology Dept. ined. The blending between the spot-affected area and healthy skin is extremely good, and that use light have had great success in combating these vexing illnesses. patients are always pleasantly surprised that the treatment is over so quickly. Dr. Masayo Fujino, M.D. Attack on Friendly Cells by UV Phototherapy Two Mechanisms behind UV Some Commonly Known Illnesses Are Allergies The Key is Wavelength White Blood Cells to Treat Skin Allergies Phototherapy Hay fever, hives and atopic skin inflamconditions with vastly different sympVitiligo is thought to afflict some 100,000 Until recently, skin allergy ailments were Taking one type of skin allergy, psoriasis, All UV light is not the same, however, mation are all commonly known allergic toms, such as rheumatoid arthritis. people in Japan. In this condition, white treated mostly with prescription medicaas an example, there are two mechawhen it comes to phototherapy. Indeed, reactions. In recent years, however, a But why should what is basically an blood cells lose control and begin tion or topical agents. However, concern nisms behind how UV phototherapy it is widely known that UV light contains whole spectrum of illnesses and condiallergic reaction (autoimmune diseases) attacking melanocytes, the cells that arose over the limited effectiveness of works. The first is the destruction of the components that can be harmful to tions are now known to actually be types trigger so many illnesses that at first produce pigment for the skin. The attack these approaches, which was often overactive white blood cells, the direct living tissue. As a result, there was a of allergic reactions referred to as autoglance appear to be completely unrecauses these cells to lose their functionaccompanied by unpleasant side effects. cause of the condition. The second need for a phototherapy device that was immune diseases. These include condilated disorders sharing virtually none of ality and to stop making pigment, leadUV phototherapy has thus been drawing involves increasing the number of a differsafe and easy to use, and could stably tions once classed as skin ailments, the same symptoms? The reason for this ing to the condition’s telltale symptoms. increasing interest in recent years. ent set of white blood cells, called regulabathe an affected area solely in wavesuch as vitiligo, psoriasis, alopecia areata is that when white blood cells, which Similar attacks on the cells that make up tory T cells, that help deactivate their lengths of UV that would enhance thera(autoimmune hair loss), and palmoplannormally protect the body, become hair follicles in alopecia areata (autoimtrouble-causing counterparts. In other peutic effectiveness while minimizing tar pustulosis (a form of psoriasis affectoveractive, they mistakenly begin to mune hair loss) and the synovial memwords, UV radiation has an immune supany side effects. ing the palms and soles of the feet), to attack the body’s own cells. brane of the joints in rheumatoid arthritis pressing effect that reduces the number are the mechanism behind the sympand attack strength of white blood cells toms associated with these disorders. that have begun attacking the body’s own cells, thereby mitigating the symptoms. Completely different symptoms Ordinary Immune Function Internal/Eternal factors White blood cells lose control! depending on which cells are attacked Treatment of psoriasis via UV therapy s Virus Viru UV radiation UV radiation Viru WBC WBC Attack on melanocytes Vitiligo GO s that produce skin ! k! UV Chemicals co/ Attac pigment UV Skin Tobachol UV alco WBC UV att ack Attack on synovial Rheumatoid attack !! ？ WBC !! s membrane cells of the arthritis UV B Stres B Virus UV ck!! WBC Virus joints WBC k!! Diet att ac WBC atta !! W BC B BC ER B W NN !! WI t o p WBC B Attack on hair follicle Hair loss UV WBC s WBC cells B B Others B B B B B B B B [Immune cell] B [Regulatory T cells] B WBC: white blood cells The purpose of this information is to intuitively explain general medical information to a broad audience; it is not intended as a testimonial of effectiveness. B: body cells (Melanocytes, synovial membrane cells, hair follicle cells, etc.) 08 Feature Sustainability Report 2012 09 Part 2 Interview with a Doctor All for the Sake of Patients Insights from the developer Phototherapy and Excimer Filters Although phototherapy is much more widely known today than it once was, there are still many patients out there who would benefit from UV phototherapy, yet have given up on treatment because they believe their condition to be intractable. Nothing would be more Phototherapy utilizes the immune-suppressing effects of UV light to quell skin gratifying for me than for those patients and the physicians involved in their treatment to challenge these tough disorders again by giving this more advanced phototherapy symptoms arising from an excessive immune response. Since the 1970s, when approach a try. researchers at Harvard University discovered that UV radiation could effectively Because phototherapy devices are a type of medical equipment, the dependable quality treat psoriasis, UV light in the 311-nanometer (nm) band has been the most and maintenance and support structures are very important. With the excimer light, we have leveraged precision technology to create the world’s first 308-nm excimer light and excimer commonly used wavelength for treatment. Department of Geriatric and Environmenfilter. The result is a safe device offering the most effective light for treatment possible. EffecIn fact, though, the approximate effectiveness of a particular wavelength and its tal Dermatology, tively, we have made a treatment once deemed impossible a reality. I’m proud that we can Nagoya City University Graduate School present this feat of Japanese engineering to the world. potential side effects had largely remained a mystery. And while the existence of of Medical Sciences relatively more effective wavelengths was suggested, the research did not extend Dr. Akimichi Morita, M.D. to determining which specific wavelengths had a strong effect. Identifying Light with Greater Therapeutic From Japan to the World and Taiwan, where it is now being sold. USHIO now plans to Effectiveness and Fewer Side Effects Wavelength comparison Since its launch, the outstanding safety and effectiveness of obtain similar approval and promote sales in South Korea, A joint research team from USHIO and the Nagoya City Unithe TheraBeam® UV308 for dermatological use has earned India and other markets in Asia, as well as in the United Shift 3 nm towards the the device a strong reputation among dermatologists and States, Europe and elsewhere around the world. These prodversity Department of Geriatric and Environmental Dermatolshorter wavelength side ogy (Prof. Akimichi Morita) decided to tackle the challenge of patients alike. Today, the TheraBeam® UV308 boasts the top ucts will enable both the light field and the position of the Excimer light Conventional share of the market in Japan (based on USHIO data). The device to be selected more easily depending on the size and Relative value identifying the optimal treatment. In searching for light that phototherapy would enhance therapeutic effectiveness with fewer side device has already won approval for medical use in China location of the target area of the body. effects, the team concluded after a detailed analysis of waveShorter lengths that the most effective light is at a wavelength of 308 wavelength than nm, where effectiveness peaks. They also determined that conventional cutting wavelengths below 297 nm reduced skin redness and phototherapy Sales Areas for TheraBeam® UV308 other side effects. While just 3 nm shorter than the 311-nm wavelength conventionally used, there were now grounds to expect that this Wavelength (nm) previously unidentified wavelength could eventually make more effective therapy possible. Balancing safety and effectiveness Excimer light (no excimer filter) Original Excimer Filter Based on Light Excimer light (with excimer filter) Technology Relative value The same research team applied their findings to an excimer lamp, a product that USHIO led the world in commercializing in Remove wavelengths Wavelength band with strong side effects the 1970s. The team developed a light source to emit peak where side effects outweigh 308-nm wavelength, a technologically impossible task when effectiveness with the excimer the lamp was first marketed. The team also successfully develfilter A  lready introduced: Japan, China, Taiwan oped an excimer filter to block short wavelengths below 297Highly effective Pending introduction: South wavelength band nm, which were associated with the biggest side effects. Korea, Singapore, Thailand, Indonesia, India, Myanmar Based on the excimer light, in 2008, USHIO created a working phototherapy device equipped with its own proprietary light Wavelength (nm) technology, making safe and highly effective phototherapy a reality. This was the birth of the TheraBeam® UV308, the world’s first device of its kind to have both a 308-nm excimer Kobayashi K, Morita A et al, Photoderm Photoimmunol Photomed 25; 30-36, 2009 light and excimer filter. 10 Sustainability Report 2012 11 http://www.ushio.co.jp/en/csrprogram (Toward Realizing a Sustainable Society) USHIO’s CSR CSR Promotion Framework USHIO has established a CSR Committee, which is chaired by United Nations Global Compact’s Ten Principles the president. The committee decides on policies for the whole USHIO has declared its support for the United Nations Global Company relating to CSR initiatives. The CSR Committee Compact of principles concerning human rights, labor stanestablishes subcommittees as needed to oversee practical dards, the environment and anti-corruption. We have joined implementation of the policies it has decided, and discusses the local UN network supporting the compact, Global Comspecific initiatives and ways to promote them. pact Japan Network, and have taken an active role in various sectional activities, including our involvement in co-sponsoring CSR Promotion Framework a .proposal on supply chain management as one of the participating companies. CSR Committee (Chairperson: president) CSR Department Separate subcommittees Group UGN for each initiative companies Business divisions United Nations Global Compact’s Ten Principles and Our Initiatives United Nations Global Compact’s Ten Principles USHIO’s Related Initiatives Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally The third section of USHIO’s 10 Action Guidelines Principle 1 proclaimed human rights; and sets out clear requirements for respecting basic Human human rights for all people, and prohibits unfair Rights discrimination, among other measures. Principle 2 make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. e Pages 16, 17 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective The USHIO Group respects the International Principle 3 recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Labour Organization’s Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work. Under the third Principle 4 the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor; section of USHIO’s 10 Action Guidelines, the Labor Approach to Corporate Social Standards Company strives to promote good laborPrinciple 5 the effective abolition of child labor; and management relations, abolish discrimination in Responsibility (CSR) the workplace, and create working environments Society that are cheerful, safe, and comfortable. We consider it natural that a corporate citizen should observe Principle 6 the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. e Pages 16, 17 laws and regulations, contribute to society, and take steps to Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental Section 8 of USHIO’s 10 Action Guidelines protect the environment. These are the foundations of all corPrinciple 7 challenges; clearly states the Company’s position on actively porate activity. In addition, a corporation should build good Create and provide new value to society Environworking to protect the environment. We also Principle 8 undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and formulated our 2020 Environmental Vision and relationships with its various stakeholders and advance by ment are now working to implement Phase Three of the creating and offering new value to contribute to society. This is encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly Environmental Action Plan. USHIO Group Stakeholders Principle 9 e Pages 22, 23 technologies. the kind of corporation that USHIO is working to become. Build good relationships Under section 6 of the 10 Action Guidelines, USHIO strives to prevent corruption and to Anti-­ Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including conduct fair business activities. We have also Principle 10 Corruption extortion and bribery. set up a Compliance Committee and the USHIO Compliance Hotline (internal reporting system). e Pages 15 Glossary CSR (Corporate Social Responsibility): The responsibility of a company as an entity Compliance: Literally, compliance with laws and regulations. At one point this was all UGN: USHIO Green Network. An organization for promoting environmental action and ILO: The International Labour Organization was established by the 1919 Treaty of in global society. the word was taken to mean, but in recent years it has come to include observing the information sharing at USHIO Group sites. Versailles. As an international organization, the ILO works in all countries to improve Stakeholders: People who are concerned or affected in some way by the decisions rules and norms of society, and contributing to society. The United Nations Global Compact: This initiative was set up in 1999 by Kofi labor conditions and realize social justice. and actions of an organization. Generally described as people who have a stake in a Annan, the United Nations secretary general at the time. The Global Compact calls for company. organizations to take practical steps to follow ten principles relating to human rights, labor standards, the environment and anti-corruption. 12 csr Sustainability Report 2012 13 Medium-term Planning for CSR In phase-2, USHIO will delve deeper into its CSR priorities Formulation of a CSR Action Plan under the Five Pillars Since 2009, USHIO has formulated medium-term plans in to fuse the relevant initiatives together with each business promoting its CSR initiatives. In the first phase of planning, we activity aimed at enhancing the Group’s value chain. identified the CSR issues USHIO should take up by conducting Governance People Quality awareness surveys among the management tier and questionFormulation of a CSR Action Plan naires with our employees at large and promoting dialogue From fiscal 2012, USHIO has created a CSR Action Plan Establish a compliance system that Considering workplace environments, Initiatives to meet the needs of customwith NGOs and knowledgeable experts by taking advantage of (Policy) and taken steps to reinforce its CSR initiatives. The encompasses international standards in human rights, and diversity of values in ers, shareholders, and business partthe seminars on the UN Global Compact we conducted. The plan covers items classified under the five pillars of goverglobal corporate activities, work to hiring and using human resources ners based on observance of market publicize CSR related information and rules, and regulations results of the prioritization of CSR issues and initiatives in nance, people, quality, society, and environment. These items establish stakeholder communication, phase-1 were announced publicly in fiscal 2012 as a CSR are then broken down further into action policies. and strengthen and enhance the goverAction Plan and fed back for implementation in the business Fiscal 2013 will be a year in which we strenuously promote nance framework plan of each division. these respective CSR initiatives within our business confines. Issues Issues Issues As such, we will treat the CSR Action Plan as a guiding prin• Promulgation throughout the company •  uman rights H •C  SR procurement ciple for fitting in our five CSR pillars harmoniously with the • Internal control • Promotion of diversity • Quality • Global measures • Promotion of work-life balance •C  reation of solutions to meet new social needs business plan and momentum of each division and department. • BCP • Health and safety • Compliance and ethics • Human resources CSR Activities through the Value Chain • Building information security systems • Fair and impartial business activities • Protecting property rights CSR Issues ISO 26000 core subjects, 10 Principles of the U.N. Global Compact, etc. Fiscal 2013 Action Policies Fiscal 2013 Action Policies Fiscal 2013 Action Policies •P  romotion of risk management •F  ormulate a human resources plan looking •P  romote initiatives to increase customer • Take steps to promote observance of laws and three-years into the future satisfaction and quality in addition to achieving regulations (Promote human resources, employee composales and profit targets • Build information security systems sition, and diversity to match future strategies) • Strengthen supply chains (Promote CSR and Company Infrastructure • Protect and make strategic use of intellectual • Promote work-life balance green procurement) (Human resources, accounting and finance, management planning, public relations and IR, etc.) property • Reduce total work hours • Formulate an approach for solving social • Formulate a business continuity plan • Promote health and safety measures issues through core business (product and Value service) capabilities, and a business promotion plan for Asia and other emerging markets Product Product Production Procurement Manufacture Quality Sale and planning design planning inspection delivery Society Environment Medium-term Planning for CSR Goals and Roadmap Engage widely with society at all levels Engage in corporate activities to protect from local to international, cooperating the environment. Strive to meet both and coordinating with other groups in environmental and business needs, Phase 3 contributing to education, culture, including addressing global environmenComplete integration of managewelfare, development and other aspects tal problems affecting biotopes ment strategy with CSR issues of society Development of CSR Link social issues with management strategy, clarify the relationship with Activities Phase 2 the medium-term management plan Issues Issues •S  ocial contribution activities • Environment Dig deeper in to CSR issues Organize social issues and USHIO management issues and strategies Develop action plans for each strategy (Reflect the issues in each department’s Phase 1 business plans) Form an infrastructure for CSR initiatives, gather information Fiscal 2013 Action Policies Fiscal 2013 Action Policies Determine important issues using in-house opinion surveys and dialogue with experts •P  romote social contribution activities •P  romote Phase Three of the Environmental Decide upon issues that relate to the five pillars of CSR initiatives (Communicate with local communities and Action Plan explore ways to contribute to the world • Contribute to the environment by reducing 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 (Fiscal year) through our core businesses) energy and resource costs • Comply with environmental laws and regulations; develop products and markets ahead of regulatory trends Glossary Value chain: An approach in which the chain of value generated by buying and ISO 26000: A global guideline for initiatives regarding organizational social responsibility Internal control: The process of forming rules for conducting business appropriately and effectively in the event of a natural disaster or other unforeseen circumstances. The distribution, manufacturing, shipping, sales and marketing, and services, coupled with published in October 2011 by the International Organization for Standardization (ISO). within an organization such as a company, and ensuring business is conducted in key is to create frameworks for adapting to the unexpected, rather than attempting to personnel and labor management, technology development and other efforts that The guideline was drafted through discussions with representatives from government accordance with these rules. In the wake of incidents of large-scale financial reporting respond to the unexpected in a predictable manner. support these processes, give rise to value in end products and services. The term was and industry, labor, consumer groups, NGOs and other organizations that began in the and accounting fraud in the U.S., compliance has become an important issue worldwide. Social needs: Among the various needs in the world today, this refers to needs in public first coined in the book Competitive Advantage by American scholar Michael Porter. early 2000s. Unlike previous ISO programs, no certification is required. BCP (Business Countinuity Plan): An abbreviation for Business Continuity Plan, a or social areas such as the environment, poverty, human rights, welfare and health. set of policies and plans for continuing business operations and responding quickly 14 Sustainability Report 2012 15 http://www.ushio.co.jp/en/governance (Corporate Governance System) Governance http://www.ushio.co.jp/en/compliance (Compliance) Corporate Governance and Compliance and the Group’s executive officers. In addition, the USHIO Group ness operations, safeguarding assets, and improving the managehas a business unit structure and an executive officer system for the ment structure while minimizing the risks. The basic policy of the USHIO Group is to ensure purposes of strengthening and speeding up the execution of busithe transparency and efficiency of the Group’s ness operations by the representative directors. Compliance It is widely recognized that breaches of compliance can undermine management, and increase corporate value to meet Board of Directors the very foundations of the public’s trust in a company or governthe expectations of all of the Group’s stakeholders. The Board of Directors comprises a total of 11 directors: 10 interment, and carry a risk of significant losses through claims for damTo this end, we place the establishment and nal directors and 1 highly independent outside director. Internal ages, and sharp declines in sales. At USHIO we have established a maintenance of systems of internal control, directors with complete knowledge of the Company’s business Compliance Committee to address compliance-related concerns, details ensure prompt decision making, while the appointment of including potential risks, across the entire Group as early as possible. incorporating compliance with laws, regulations, an independent outside director strengthens monitoring and helps social norms, corporate ethics, and J-SOX maintain the objectivity of management. Based on the Tokyo Stock The USHIO Helpline regulations, as a top management priority and make Exchange’s rules for protecting general shareholders, USHIO has The USHIO Helpline has been in operation in filed a notice stating that its outside director is an independent the USHIO Group since October 2006. All every effort to promote these systems. director who has no conflict of interest with general shareholders. Group employees in Japan can use this hotline for direct communications with individuals Audits by Corporate Auditors outside the Group to consult or report on USHIO has a Board of Corporate Auditors with six members that workplace violations of laws and regulations, include three outside auditors who are independent of the USHIO internal rules, ethics and other standards for Corporate Governance Framework is the representative directors, who are responsible for conducting Group. The outside corporate auditors are professionals in fields behavior. The hotline allows for quick discovUSHIO uses a management structure that includes a Board of business operations. The third is the Board of Corporate Auditors, such as finance and auditing. The inclusion of outside corporate ery and correction of improper behavior and Corporate Auditors. Management and administrative responsibilities which is responsible for audits. To assist the Board of Directors in auditors makes it possible to perform audits from an objective and provides access to consultations while proUSHIO Helpline poster are divided among three governance units. The first is the Board of reaching decisions, the USHIO Group has three advisory units that neutral perspective. The board submits reports concerning legally tecting individuals who use the hotline from Directors, which determines management policies and makes deciexamine and discuss management strategies and medium and required items and other matters to the Board of Corporate Audiany negative consequences. sions about other matters of the highest importance. The directors long-term management policies with respect to the entire Group. tors. Other matters include items that may have a significant also oversee the management of business operations. The second The units are the Executive Council, Group Coordination Council impact on the entire Group, important items concerning monthly Information Security business operations, the status of internal audits and other inforThe use of IT is essential for business activities. On the other hand, USHIO’s Internal Control Framework mation that should be reported. The independent auditor submits there has been an endless stream of security issues related to IT in an annual auditing plan to the Board of Corporate Auditors and society. Among various others, these include leakage of confidenGeneral Meeting of Shareholders tial and personal information, infection from computer viruses, explains its specific auditing objectives to the corporate auditors. Election and Election and Election and In addition, the independent auditor provides the corporate audiunauthorized system access, and work stoppages due to system dismissal dismissal dismissal tors with reviews of quarterly and year-end financial reports as well malfunctions. USHIO acquires and holds a variety of information in Reporting Reporting as reviews of the financial audits and summaries of audit results. the course of conducting its business operations. We are well Board of Directors Independent Auditing Firm Auditing Board of Corporate Auditors This forms the basis for periodic meetings of the independent aware of the importance of safeguarding important information • Approval of appointments about customers and suppliers. We have established rules for the Election and • Appointments and reappointments auditors and Board of Corporate Auditors. Reporting Auditing • Evaluation of appropriateness Reporting proper handling of this information and have imposed stringent dismissal and removals of financial audits • Supervision Strengthening Business Audits requirements concerning the protection of confidential information. Reporting The importance of internal audits has increased along with the Information security requires three interlocking initiatives: rules Representative Directors enactment of the Companies Act and Financial Instruments and must be determined, a framework must be created for observing Exchange Act of Japan, and in order to prevent corporate improprithose rules, and awareness must be raised. We have established a ety. Besides compliance audits of laws, regulations and so forth, function for automatically encrypting file attachments and a system Reporting about Security Export Control Committee Instructions and important and assessments of the design and operation of internal controls, for preventing email address mistakes, along with other systems and supervision matters Corporate Social Responsibility Department internal audits must now also offer proposals for improvement, rules for program asset management and the like, but on the whole serving as a consulting function. At USHIO, we conduct various we are not 100% satisfied with these measures. The awareness of Compliance Committee audits, including compliance audits and audits of export controls. each and every employee is essential. So, in fiscal 2012, we will work Executive Council Group Coordination Council To ensure the quality and raise the effectiveness of these audits, we to raise awareness by utilizing e-learning tools and other media and (Deliberation on important matters) Business Auditing Department work in close cooperation with the corporate auditors at all times. conduct information security audits linked to J-SOX audits. including evaluation of the The theme and inspection items in our internal audits are derived internal control system from the perspectives of the Company’s business aims and miniFair and Equitable Business Transactions Instructions and Reporting about The USHIO Group’s 10 Action Guidelines expresses our commitsupervision important matters mizing management risks to make sure that the audits help USHIO Submitting policy Authorization of policy achieve its organizational objectives. To this end, the indications ment to always respecting the position and rights of the other proposals and plans proposals and plans party in business dealings, to conducting transactions fairly and and recommendations raised by the internal audits are followed through periodically until the required improvements have been equitably, and to not taking advantage of a dominant position to Divisions, subsidiaries, and affiliates made. We will continue to have audits conducted in close observaimpose inappropriate terms or conditions. We also promise to tion of actual frontline business conditions with a view to issuing work to prevent corruption and carry out appropriate business recommendations for streamlining management, improving busitransactions in line with socially accepted practices. Glossary Corporate governance: This refers to a company’s mechanisms for management and supervision. Supervision refers not to monitoring for suspicious activity in management, but rather setting targets for management and evaluating performance. In other words, a mechanism for ensuring that management is managing the company for the shareholders. 16 Sustainability Report 2012 17 http://www.ushio.co.jp/en/peoples (Working Together with Employees) People Working Together with Employees By working to fulfill its responsibilities to society, Work-Life Balance Education and Training for Human the USHIO Group aims to create a company Support Programs Resources Development We are committed to developing a working environment that Various training programs have been established to facilitate the where employees can work with enthusiasm and enables both men and women to balance their jobs and home life development of personnel capable of acting independently and to a sense of purpose. As is clear from the first without excess worry. We offer childcare leave and other support make it possible to align the company’s prosperity with enriching item in the Group’s management philosophy: programs that go beyond legal mandates. In March 2009 we the lives of individual employees. “Build both a prosperous Company and created the Work-Life Balance Handbook, which contains informaIn addition, revisions were made to the skills required for each tion on programs for balancing work. It also contains information division and type of job, and a system established at each office prosperous employees,” this goal has remained on child-raising and maternal welfare, how managers should which will facilitate training and evaluation of employees. the same since the Company’s foundation. respond, and other tips for employees who would use the proRegardless of the type of job, all employees are trained to grams and for their managers. In July 2011, we revised our system develop their ability to maintain an awareness of the problem, a for working shorter hours to extend the eligibility of choosing to problem-solving approach that is not limited by past experience and work shorter hours until a child is six years old. Moreover, in an the ability to independently develop and implement new proposals. effort to build an environment conducive to supporting gender equality, we uploaded stories of male Support for Self-Development employees and their experience with childCorrespondence courses: In fiscal 2011 we had a lineup of care leave for view on our intranet portal. roughly 302 courses on subjects ranging from management to Consequently, in June 2012 we earned computer skills, in addition to basic classes on foreign languages Kurumin certification under the Act for Meaand technical topics and certification courses. When employees Respecting Human Rights human resources by conducting sures to Support the Development of the finish a course, they are paid a bonus. The courses accommodate The USHIO Group respects the International Labour Organization’s international study programs, Next Generation for the third time. the desire of employees to keep learning. In fiscal 2011, a total of Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work. USHIO hiring international students, 376 courses were taken. also declared its support for the ten principles of the United sending personnel from Group Employees Using Childcare Leave TOEIC testing: TOEIC tests are given to employees who want to Nations Global Compact in October 2010. The principles relate to companies overseas to the parent 2010 2011 2012 gauge their English ability and further improve it. The company human rights, labor, the environment, and anti-corruption. USHIO company in Japan, and providing pays a portion of the testing fees. A total of 93 employees took the Men 0 2 2 is promoting initiatives to ensure adherence to them. From fiscal opportunities for interaction test in fiscal 2011. 2011, we began looking into CSR procurement and checking for between Group companies. Diverse employees and customers Women 26 29 27 on a visit from overseas the usage of conflict minerals among the Group and its business Total 26 31 29 Tiered Employee Training partners. Going forward, we will formulate a medium-term plan Support for Working Women Mid-career training: Available for employees who have been with and promote initiatives for working together with our business USHIO INC. strives to help employees balance their work the company for five years and who want to improve their own partners in raising the level of conflict mineral avoidance. responsibilities with having and raising children, which is a major Paid Vacation and No-Overtime Days abilities. This training focuses on developing the skills to guide and reason women quit their jobs, and to create a company where Based on a commitcorrect others when providing on-the-job training, and the ability to Diversity women can work easily. New talent pools are needed in order to ment to work-life Percentage of Paid Vacation Days control or improve the motivation of others. balance, we designate Used Utilizing Global Human Resources generate new business amid the matured economies of the New management training: Available for employees who have certain days as no(%) Overseas sales account for over 70% of the USHIO Group’s total. industrialized nations. Consequently, the percentage of women 100 been recently promoted to a level-2 assistant leader position. Human resources capable of blending in to communicate and employees in sales and technical positions has more than douovertime days and Training concentrates on developing the ability to identify or extract understand local needs are indispensable in promoting business bled compared to 2007 in our effort to recruit human resources prearrange paid vaca75 problems in the workplace (within a division, working group or overseas. We are therefore working to develop and utilize global without regard to gender. tion days to give team), mobilize resources and guide the team to a solution. 50 employees time to New line manager training: Available for employees who have spend with their 25 recently been promoted to a line manager (generally, a department friends and family or manager) position. Training focuses on the ability to identify organion their own pursuits 0 zational objectives, then lead or manage the department or team 2010 2011 2012 USHIO’s Work-Life Balance Support Program (Balancing Work and Parenting) and to help create a to achieve these objectives, while addressing any obstacles or more dynamic workproblems encountered along the way. ing environment. We believe that performance improves when Division manager training: Available for employees who have employees maintain their physical and mental health by taking time recently been promoted to a division (or assistant division) manPrior to Birth Birth Post Natal Childcare off to relax and rejuvenate. ager position. The training is directed at further improving organizational skills and human relations skills. At present, the content of • Leave of absence for fertility treatment • Shortened working hours (pregnancy) • Paternity leave • Antenatal/postnatal leave • Childcare leave a Women may take up to two years • Short working hours (childcare) • Excused from work outside of regular Occupational Health and Safety this training program is being revised, to not only enhance organi• Leave of absence for maternity clinic visits a 8 weeks each leave two times for each child, hours, or amount of regular work limited USHIO INC. engages in occupational health and safety initiatives zational management skills but also to ensure that managers can • Pregnancy discomfort leave regardless of whether their spouse • Amount of late night work limited is working • Nursing care leave to maintain a workplace that provides total peace of mind to keep their eye on the mediumand long-term strategic goals of • Childcare leave employees. Various systems have been established to help their business and resolve issues in order to meet those goals. • Hospital visit leave employees maintain their health. Health-related counseling is provided to employees with health or weight issues identified by health exams, and industrial physicians consult with employees working long hours. Glossary Conflict Minerals: Conflict minerals are gold, tin, tantalum and tungsten mined in the Diversity: The principle of diversity calls for the creation of organizations that allows Work-life Balance: This refers to regulating the workplace and the social environment Kurumin: The Kurumin symbol is used by companies who receive certification from regions around the Republic of Congo that find their way into products. Under the diverse people to achieve their full potential, regardless of race, gender, age, or beliefs. to allow people to enjoy full lives while working. The concept extends further than the Japan’s Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare after creating and implementing an 2010 U.S. financial reform bill, SEC registered companies are obliged to report on their simple reduction of overtime, calling for initiatives that improve the quality of both work action plan for supporting employees in childcare, and meeting certain standards. use of such minerals. This disclosure is required because of concerns that such mining and private life to achieve synergies. products are a source of funding for armed groups that are known to commit serious human rights abuses in the Republic of Congo. 18 Sustainability Report 2012 19 http://www.ushio.co.jp/en/supplier (Working Together with Business Partners) Quality http://www.ushio.co.jp/en/customer (Working Together with Customers) Relationships with Customers and ­Business Partners Contributing to Society with USHIO Products For USHIO, contributing to society through the products of our Development of Super Green Products Products eligible for certification as an SG product must be the main business is a particularly important initiative, among the best in their class, while offering superior environmental perforTo accurately grasp the needs of our customers, many we are involved in. In order to contribute to the environmance in terms of energy efficiency, extended lifetime, 3R we think from their perspective, then work as ment through innovations in product performance, USHIO has design, materials used, applications and so forth. In addition, the one with our business partners to improve our built a system for conducting environmental assessments starting product must satisfy our new USHIO environmental factor* product development and quality. In this way we at the product development stage and certifying products with requirement, which was provide products and services with appealing exceptional environmental performance as Super Green prodestablished to clarify our ucts. As of fiscal 2012, seven products have been certified as standards following a fiscal quality that goes above and beyond the Super Green products. 2009 review of certification run-of-the-mill. We are also working to develop products capable of addressrequirements in light of recent ing problems that must be solved at the global level, in areas such trends in society. As of March as medicine, health, the environment, food and energy. 2011, the Group has certified five SG products, and added Super Green Products Label two during fiscal 2012. Quality Policy USHIO has created unified quality policies for the entire Group and continued its efforts to improve quality. Basic Philosophy Medical Energy (treatment, diagnosis, sterilization Light plays a central role in the UPS(USHIO Production System) USHIO regards product quality as an overriding priority and testing) development of many new energy UPS (USHIO Production System) is the name of a new initiative and will promptly provide global markets with high quality, Light-based medical equipment is sources including solar power. attracting great interest due to its USHIO has taken a pioneering role safe products and services that are highly reliable and aiming to establish a unique new production system at USHIO’s ability to enhance the quality of in the development of new infraeconomical in order to fulfill the requirements of customers. life. USHIO employs the most structure and technology to Harima Division from fiscal 2011. Amid a rapidly changing busiAcceleration advanced technology to develop UV phototherapy Interior of the body promote a carbon-neutral society. testing system ness environment, it is important to be able to efficiently supply Solar simulator for new products used in medical device for dermavisualization system Action Guidelines testing solar batteries high quality products in any environment. To achieve this, we saw treatment, diagnosis, testing and tological problems 1. We will act rigorously in putting the customer first and sterilization/hygiene. the need to think outside of the box and promote improvements putting quality first, and will develop appealing products from a broad-ranging perspective by integrating our ongoing UPS, with cutting-edge technology to fulfill the requirements Agriculture Security TPM and TQC improvement activities, rather than repeatedly going of customers and earn their trust. (cultivation and propagation) (hazardous chemicals, surveilover the same ground. The main thrust of the UPS movement is 2. We will strive to further improve quality by developing Agriculture faces great challenges lance and information security) entity-level quality management systems and continuin our modern world to preserve USHIO provides products for a ZD (zero-defects) activities, which seek to eliminate defective work the safety, quality and stability of variety of purposes including the by stimulating individual autonomy and enthusiasm among ally working to improve their effectiveness in order to our food supply. By developing detection of pesticides and hazemployees and fostering creative thinking. It is a movement that meet the needs of customers. and optimizing man-made light ardous chemicals, nighttime UV LED projector 3. We will work to share information with customers, sources that can be used for Lighting system Light source unit surveillance and security. USHIO Biotip for chemical consists of three pillar groups. Namely, 1) the Manufacturing Techcultivation, USHIO hopes to help for plant cultivation products are also used to prevent detection system for plant cultivation make cost improvements, develop new products, solve global food supply issues. data theft and provide information nology Group for promoting production based on defect-free and control pioneer new markets, and promptly provide global security for computer systems. process completion and the reduction of defects and variable markets with high quality, safe products that are highly quality, 2) the Quality Assurance System Reform Group for proposNatural environment reliable and economical. (air and water quality) ing rules stripped of formalities that focus on effectiveness, and 3) USHIO Light Put to Work in Ballast Water Sterilization (USHIO EUROPE B.V.) USHIO has developed light-based Ballast water is a problem because it impacts marine ecosystems. In order to the Education and Enlightenment Group for implementing systemApril 1, 2010 products that help improve water eliminate this impact, the water must be sterilized, and one method for doing Shiro Sugata quality in rivers, groundwater, water atic training in cutting-edge skill sets and knowledge. Those so uses light. This method has drawn attention for being compact, easy to President and supply and sewerage systems, and handle and not producing chemical pollution. Water treatment using light is groups are striving to promote initiatives with tangible results in Chief Executive Officer preserve air quality by reducing gas an important technology in all water-related fields. USHIO EUROPE currently fiscal 2013. USHIO INC. and particle emissions. Mercury-free UV VUV light source supplies UV lamps and power sources for ballast water as well as control lamp for water unit for NOx and parts when they are needed. Going forward, the company intends to expand disinfection SOx degradation into a variety of applications, including industrial wastewater treatment, and supply them to the market as optical solutions to environmental problems. Glossary Evaluation Criteria of Super Green Products: The certification standard for Super Environmental Factor: A comparison of the environmental efficiency of a newly √ [(Energy input)2+(3R volume)2+(Chemical substances content)2] Green Products is comprised of the following three requirements. developed product and past products can be expressed numerically as an environNotes: 1. Energy output: For lamps, primarily lighting output and intensity in the 1) Environmentally conscious product score of 80 or more (based on environmentally mental factor. Higher numbers represent greater improvements necessary wavelength range conscious product assessment standards) Environmental factor is calculated by dividing the environmental efficiency of the target 2. Energy input: Energy consumed in using the product 2) Environmental factor of 1.5 or more (calculated in comparison to previous products, product by the environmental efficiency of the equivalent product in the baseline year. 3. 3R volume: Product size and weight (quantity of resources used) with fiscal 2000 as the baseline year) USHIO calculates a product’s environmental efficiency by dividing product value 4. Chemical substances content: Quantity of substances with environmental 3) Attainment of transparency (performance) by environmental impact. Product value is calculated by multiplying risk contained in the product energy output by lifespan. Environmental impact is calculated with this formula: 20 Relationships with Customers and B ­ usiness Partners Sustainability Report 2012 21 http://www.ushio.co.jp/en/contribution Society (Working Together with Local Communities) http://www.ushio.co.jp/en/society (USHIO Group Support for Culture and Learning) Relationship with Society CSR Procurement and Checking for It also runs an educational program for personnel involved in We shall contribute to the development of Conflict Minerals procurement that covers such topics as Japan’s Subcontract Act, respective regions where we conduct business Cooperation from business partners is crucial for USHIO to conenvironmental regulations and the Foreign Exchange and Foreign as a member of the international community. tribute to the world through excellent products and services. CSR Trade Act. The program helps ensure that we remain in strict comprocurement initiatives are intended to build relationships of suspliance with laws and regulations. tainable coexistence between USHIO, its business partners, and To help us respond quickly and appropriately to requests and society. In fiscal 2011 we conducted a CSR survey of our business inquiries from customers at overseas sites regarding the environpartners, and requested that their initiatives be upgraded based on ment, joint teams have been established by the Harima Division the survey results and feedback. As for fiscal 2012, we aim to and overseas sites and measures are being taken to raise the level improve our CSR procurement initiatives by examining ways of of our environmental responsiveness. implementing activities in unison with our business partners. We have also conducted a survey to ascertain the usage of conflict minerals in components, as part of our due diligence. Initiatives at the Gotemba Division At the Gotemba Division, all employees involved in procurement take a seminar on the Subcontract Act in order to deepen their Lectures at Universities Support Japan” and donated 50% of the money from sales of understanding of it. In addition, the division emphasizes thinking Lecture on Environmental Concepts these patches to Japanese charities. Every employee at USHIO and acting together with suppliers, and when an issue occurs (CHRISTIE DIGITAL SYSTEMS CANADA INC.) Philippines took part in the activity. Every year since 2009, CHRISTIE DIGITAL SYSTEMS CANADA Exhibition of Local Products from the Tohoku Region related to quality or a missed delivery deadline, it investigates the has given lectures on environmental concepts at Wilfrid Laurier (USHIO INC.) Supplier briefing in progress cause with the supplier and takes steps to address the problem. University in Waterloo, Ontario. The university is well known for its In March 2012, the USHIO head office and other companies As a result of these efforts, we have set targets for making outstanding business and economics programs, and has taken a located in the same office building jointly organized a “local foods progress on initiatives to improve on-time delivery by suppliers and leading role in promoting educational quality by integrating sustainmarket to support Great East Japan Earthquake victims in ability practices in its education programs. These programs include Tohoku.” Donations collected at the venue, were given to NPOs reduce non-conformance rates. Moreover, to help us keep in step units on ISO14001, sustainable development and environmental involved in the recovery effort in Tohoku via the Japan Philanwith our business partners, we undertake activities to build mutuaccounting. When students of the lecture voiced a request to see thropic Association. ally beneficial relationships, including supporting their acquisition of how environmental concepts were put in practice in a real-world At the USHIO Festival, held during July at the Harima Division Eco-Action 21 (EA21), and using meetings with suppliers to context, CHRISTIE DIGITAL SYSTEMS CANADA responded by and the Gotemba Division, an exhibition was held of local prodorganizing a factory tour. ucts from the earthquake-hit Tohoku region as a way to support develop a common awareness. In 2011, the company invited students in MBA and BBA its recovery. Donations collected at the Gotemba Division were courses at Wilfrid Laurier University to attend an orientation lecture sent to the ­Japanese Red Cross Society by the USHIO Festival Initiatives at the Harima Division and tour of the company’s facilities. In addition, similar presentaexecutive committee. As overseas transactions have increased, the Harima Division has tions were given to local business leaders, at Communitech Hub. consolidated the trade operations of the materials division into its Lecture on Optical Technologies (USHIO INC.) The USHIO Foundation USHIO conducts lectures on optical technologies each year at the The USHIO Foundation was established in 1994 to commemorate Overseas Support Office, including procurement of parts and University of Tokyo, as part of its involvement in CORAL, the Conthe 30th anniversary of the founding of USHIO. Its purpose is to materials from overseas and supply to overseas manufacturing sortium on Education and Research on Advanced Laser Science. contribute to the development of human resources, learning and sites. The division works to acquire specialized knowledge of laws In fiscal 2011 we gave the lectures for the fourth time, with the culture. The foundation was designated as a public interest incorpolesson in June consisting of a lecture on “methods of generating rated foundation by the Japanese government in April 2011 and and regulations pertaining to overseas transactions, which are light and photochemical reactions,” and practical modules on “the made a new start as the USHIO Foundation. Its main projects growing increasingly diverse and include national security guaranspectroscopy and photochemical reaction of UV light.” A large include supporting the development of the next generation of tee regulations and Export Administration Regulations, and number of students researching light participated eagerly in both human resources who will be responsible for leading the world in the accommodate them in an appropriate manner. the lectures and the practical modules. As part of its contribution future by providing scholarships to assist with their studies, and to society, USHIO will continue to support the development of promoting further interaction and mutual understanding between young students who will be the optical technicians of the future. Japan and other countries. In 2011, the foundation provided scholarships to 49 graduate Relief Efforts Following the Great East students (including overseas Japan Earthquake students) and 16 students in (USHIO Philippines, Inc.) specialized courses at colThe Board of Trustees of First Cavite Industrial Estate (FCIE), the leges of technology. So far, industrial park where USHIO Philippines is located, manufactured 373 scholarship students patches emblazoned with the message “Gambaro Nippon—We have graduated. Glossary Glossary Due Diligence: Originally this was a financial term referring to general research activities relating to a company, real estate asset or financial instrument targeted for investment or an M&A. In the 2008 United Nations report on human rights issues by John Ruggie, due diligence was proposed as necessary for corporations to fulfill their responsibilities regarding human rights. Due diligence is also included in the ISO26000 international guideline on CSR activities as an item for organizations to undertake. 22 Sustainability Report 2012 23 http://www.ushio.co.jp/en/environmental (Environmental Management System) Environment http://www.ushio.co.jp/en/energy (Global Warming Countermeasures) Environmental Activities The USHIO Group has defined a vision of where Phase Three of the Environmental Action Plan environmental issue committees for each measure to promote it wants to be in 2020, and is strengthening its Phase Three of the Environmental Action Plan provides the followactivities: a Global Warming Countermeasures Committee, a ing four environmental themes: environmental management, activiGreen Products Committee, a 3R Committee, and a Green Proinitiatives to contribute to the realization of a ties to promote environmentally conscious product performance, curement Committee. Please refer to the corporate Web site for sustainable society through its core operations. activities to promote environmentally conscious operations, and information on these activities and results for fiscal 2011. environmental and social contribution activities. The plan also sets http://www.ushio.co.jp/en/csr/eco/manage/plan.html out 17 specific measures and targets, and sets out four Four Environmental Themes of Phase Three of the Environmental Action Plan Environmental Activities to promote Activities to promote Environmental and ­management environmentally environmentally social contribution ­conscious product ­conscious operations ­activities ·S  trengthen environmental performance ·S trengthening global ·C  ommunication with governance · Expand lineup of environwarming countermeasures stakeholders ·C  arbon management mentally conscious products ·C onserving resources · Social contribution activities ·C hemical substance man·P  reserve biodiversity agement system (CMS) 2020 Environmental Vision Under Phase Three of the Environmental Action Plan, which Committees for Each Measure Promote Activities The USHIO Group formulated its 2020 Environmental Vision with started in fiscal 2010, we extrapolated back in time from our vision the goal of becoming a company able to contribute through its for 2020, and broke down our vision into a set of specific goals Global Warming CounterGreen Procurement through a process called “back casting.” Green Products Committee 3R Committee business activities to the realization of a low-carbon, recyclingmeasures Committee Committee oriented society that preserves biodiversity by the year 2020. Measures to Reduce CO2 Emissions from treated as a cost, with production levels rising it will be necessary Energy Consumption to look for other ways to reduce CO2 emissions. In the future, the 2020 Environmental Vision Despite a targeted 2% reduction in emissions from base levels, company plans to adopt alternative sources of energy, and to Through Lighting-Edge technologies, we will contribute to: emissions increased for a consecutive year by 8.4% in fiscal 2011. control CO2 emissions from supply chain activities, in recognition creation of a low-carbon society, conservation of resources, The main reason once again was an increase in production activity of the need to establish targets for reducing the CO2 emissions and preservation of biodiversity. in line with business expansion. related to its products. In this way, USHIO is making a concerted In particular, production increased in Asia, with every plant in effort in addressing the issue of climate change. On the other the region exceeding their target by at least 100%. Although the hand, successful measures at each site to reduce power usage company has adopted the stance that energy use should be and changes in the product mix meant that emissions per unit sale decreased by 1.5% from the base level. USHIO’s vision for the Company in 2020 Group CO2 Emissions and Breakdown Introduction of Solar Power Generation Equipment (Gotemba Division) (tons of CO2) Low-carbon society 30,000 In January 2012, the Gotemba Division introduced a solar power gen26,836 26,784 eration system which has a generation capacity of 100 kWh, and is 25,179 22,721 2012 capable of generating around 100,000 kWh of electric power per year. Target: Recycling-oriented society The Gotemba Division has made extensive efforts to promote environ24,927 20,000 mental activities in the past, and had already introduced an electric Goals and Targets of Phase Three of power monitoring system and other features to reduce its power conBiodiversity-preserving society USHIO’s Environmental sumption. The introduction of a solar power generation system will Back casting Action Plan 10,000 complement past measures to analyze, manage 2010 2013 2020 and reduce power con0 sumption, creating Base level 2010 2011 2012 greater synergy, and helping to conserve n Base level n USHIO Group n USHIO INC. n USHIO PHILIPPINES n USHIO (SUZHOU) n CHRISTIE DIGITAL SYSTEMS n Other power on a daily basis. On sunny days, the * Top four contributing companies to USHIO Group total CO2 emissions system generates around 60 kWh of electricity. Solar Power Generation Equipment Glossary Low-carbon Society: A society that reduces its CO2 emissions to prevent global Biodiversity-preserving Society: A society that supports a rich variety of life by CO2 coefficient: CO2 coefficients represent the amount of CO2 emitted per 1kWh of warming. protecting diversity in genes, living organisms, and biotopes. electricity supplied. The USHIO Group uses the published figures from the respective Recycling-oriented Society: A society that uses resources carefully, promoting Back casting: A technique for setting targets by working backward from a future power companies that supply each site. sustainable recycling through reuse and other means. vision to the present. 24 Sustainability Report 2012 25 Business Overview Years ended March 31 Third-Party Opinion Breakdown of Sales Breakdown of Operating Income Breakdown of Assets For USHIO, the start of fiscal 2012 marked the transition from medical technology, proven to be both safe and highly effective, is (Billions of yen) (Billions of yen) (Billions of yen) Phase One to Phase Two of its CSR efforts. For Phase One, the a groundbreaking advance for patients suffering from vitiligo and key point was to identify which issues emerged during the threeatopic skin inflammation. While business development of this kind Other Businesses 2% Other Businesses 2% Other Businesses 23% in the medical field requires enormous time and cost, the profityear period. For Phase Two, the emphasis is on determining which Equipment Equipment Equipment specific measures to apply and how to apply them. Put differently, side results of these efforts are often harder to realize. Given this Business Business Business this boils down to determining what the important issues are situation, USHIO has decided to take a long-term perspective and 63% 26% 45% (materiality) with respect to CSR at USHIO, and the extent to aggressively develop business in medicine, agriculture and other 2012 2012 2012 which USHIO can incorporate CSR into its management activities socially vital fields. This strongly suggests that the concepts of CSR and sustainability run deeply through USHIO’s business strat¥150.0 ¥10.6 ¥224.4 going forward. This is the rationale given for USHIO’s release of action policies for fiscal 2012 aligned with the “five pillars” of its egy. CSR is not limited to compliance or social contribution activiLight Light Light CSR Action Plan (p. 13). I later learned that these guidelines were ties. It includes a determination to be involved in businesses that Sources Sources Sources address social issues even when short-term profitability may not Business Business Business derived through dialogue at the supervisor level with key stake35% 72% 32% holders. From here in, I want to take this opportunity to point out be feasible. If the medical equipment business featured in this what I see as two major issues that are likely to emerge. year’s report were presented with a clear example of its position in The first is that although USHIO formulated a Medium-Term terms of CSR at USHIO, I think it would be even easier for readers Vision in May 2012, the connection between this vision and to grasp. Equipment Business Light Sources Business Other Businesses Outside of the featured field of medicine, there are many more USHIO’s related CSR issues is not entirely clear in some ways. The incorporation of CSR into management activities should be closely areas where USHIO’s light technology can be leveraged to address related to management planning of this kind, and publicizing it social needs. Linking those needs to new innovation requires both within and outside the Company is significant and meaningfostering human resources who are well-versed not only in optics ful. The second issue is similar to one I pointed out last year. and engineering, but also in diverse areas such as medicine and Rather than stopping at action policies within a broad framework, agriculture. USHIO will need to establish an HR development USHIO needs, to a certain extent, to introduce KPI and other strategy that takes this into account as it plans for the future. management indicators in order to enact these policies at the top, In closing, I hope that USHIO will build on the culture it has middle and worksite levels of its organization. Outcomes then nurtured over many years with respect to CSR and sustainability to Imaging equipment Light Sources Business Machinery for industrial uses need to be measured and confirmed across the entire Company. It become a “Light Innovation Company” supported by a wide range • Digital projectors for cinemas Discharge lamps and others • Digital projectors for non-cinema applications • Plastic forming applications, peripheral is important not only to drive in-house CSR promotion, but also to of stakeholders that addresses issues like those I have mentioned. • UV lamps for manufacturing semiconductors, (control rooms, simulators, signage, virtual flat panel displays, and electronic components machinery disclose the status and results of initiatives in ways readily accesreality, and others) • Industrial machinery and systems • A range of lamps and industrial LEDs for use in sible to outside stakeholders in order to gain their support. Optical equipment cinema projectors, data projectors, office • Others • Optical equipment for manufacturing semiconIn last year’s report, I mentioned expectations for USHIO ductors, flat panel displays and electronic equipment, illumination, and other optical components (exposure tools, photo-cleaning equipment around the creation of solutions to meet social needs. This time units, photocuring systems, and others) Halogen lamps around, there is a special feature in the report (p. 5) on the use of Masaatsu Doi • UV phototherapy devices and other medical • For use in office equipment Associate Professor, equipment • For illumination applications (commercial the “excimer filter” light technology in the medical field as an actual • EUV light sources for next-generation semiTakasaki City University of Economics facilities, stage and studio lighting, specialized case of the therapeutic use of USHIO technology. USHIO has conductor lithography lighting, and others) different products for each bandwidth of light across the spectrum, Dr. Doi holds a PhD in commerce. He began • Halogen heaters from infrared and visible light to ultraviolet. In particular, the develhis current job in 2009 after graduating from the Hitotsubashi University Department of Sales Sales Sales opment and success of medical systems utilizing excimer lamps in Economics and completing post-doctoral (Billions of yen) (Billions of yen) (Billions of yen) the ultraviolet band are generating strong expectations for USHIO research at the Hitotsubashi University Gradu100 60 4 ate School of Commerce and Management. He going forward. has written several books, including CSR 80 3 This business is one of several new ventures that USHIO Keiei—Kigyou no Shakai teki Sekinin to Stakeholders (co-author, CHUOKEIZAI-SHA, INC.) 60 40 launched in the early 2000s with the 2003 establishment of the Social Enterprize—Shakai teki Kigyou no Taitou 2 New Business Promotion Office. Nearly a decade later, this (co-author, CHUOKEIZAI-SHA, INC.) 40 20 1 20 0 0 0 Response to Third-Party Opinion 2011 2012 2011 2012 2011 2012 Tadashi Taki Director, Officer in Charge of CSR Segment Income Segment Income Segment Income (Billions of yen) (Billions of yen) (Billions of yen) We appreciate receiving valuable feedback from Dr. Masaatsu Doi, such as medicine, the environment and biotechnology that will help to 6 10 0.20 Associate Professor of the Faculty of Regional Policy, Takasaki City resolve social issues. In that sense, seeing USHIO initiatives to address 8 0.15 University of Economics, on our Sustainability Report 2012. social needs rated so highly this year is extremely encouraging. 4 6 In our Medium-Term Vision, USHIO is committed to becoming a To better enhance our CSR Action Plan, we are setting quantitative 0.10 4 “Light Innovation Company” able to propose solutions that fully satisfy action plan targets and will push to enact concrete measures to meet 2 0.05 customers’ needs at all times. Under this policy, we have sought out them. We also want every member of our workforce to pursue diverse 2 growth by delivering new applications for light and light-based prodinitiatives under a shared sense of value. 0 0 0 2011 2012 2011 2012 2011 2012 ucts. At the same time, we have also been actively engaged in fields
