Siloso Beach Resort Sustainability Report 2012: Blending Life and Leisure with Nature Singapore Environmental Singapore Sustainability Singapore CSR TUV Rheinland Achievement Award Award Award (Special certified (Top Achiever 2010) (Top Honor 2011) Mention 2010) Eco Hotel This report follows the latest ISO 26000 guidelines on Social Responsibility as well as the GRI 3.1 Blending Life and Leisure with Nature www.silosobeachresort.com 1 Siloso Beach Resort Sustainability Report 2012 Acknowledgment & contacts: Review: Internal Review: For any information regarding the report please Approved by Sustainability contact: Committee •Sylvain Richer de Forges, Report Lead, Sustainability 28th June 2012 Director sylvain@silosobeachresort.com •Karl Fisher, Assistant Manager, CSR csr@silosobeachresort.com •Kelvin Ng, Executive Director •Beatrice Ho and Isey Jeselin, internship students from Singapore Polytechnic •All SBR Sustainability Committee Members •SBR staff and stakeholders This report is also available in electronic form, and can be downloaded at the following link: http://db.tt/qW2WGGK2 Please consider the environment before printing. Blending Life and Leisure with Nature www.silosobeachresort.com 2 Siloso Beach Resort Blending Life and Leisure with Nature Meet your guides ’ ’ ’ ’ In 2011, SBR introduced its new mascots concept in order to further improve its environmental outreach both within and outside of the resort. These two characters are present throughout the resort displaying, in a fun manner, key environmental messages and sustainability concepts. Squirrels and monitor lizards can be seen throughout the resort, it was therefore appropriate to choose these two characters as our mascots/Eco Ambassadors. Siloso Beach Resort Corporate Sustainability Report 2012 3 Content Highlight “ ’ Sustainable Farming ” “ ” Siloso Beach Resort Corporate Sustainability Report 2012 4 Siloso Beach Resort Sustainability Report 2012 SBR’s Shared Opinion: Main Reporting Content (This report includes a series of sustainability related articles that SBR has produced) • Demystifying the concept of sustainable construction………………………………………..… 21 22 Global Compact Support and Statement…….…….... 6 • Climate forcing and the threat of feedback GRI Guidelines index…………………………..…. 176 181 mechanisms…………………………………………… 31 32 Introduction…………………………………………….… 10 12 • Can global sustainability be achieved The SBR story…………………………..……….…....... 14 15 without demographical consideration?.....50 52 Impact risks and opportunities………….….…... 20 34 • Renewing renewables………..……………….. 96 99 Organizational profile………………..………..….... 36 58 • The value of water: a lesson from arid areas Report Parameters…………………..….…..….……. 59 62 ……………………………………………………….... 109 – 110 Governance………………………….…..….…..…..... 64 89 • Time to rethink mining exploitation?. 136 137 Environment…………………………………..…...… 91 149 • Driving an innovation revolution through Human Rights…………………….…..…….………. 150 153 biomimetics……………………………….….…… 115 116 Employment…………………….……..….………... 154 162 • Ozone the Forgotten Threats……..……. 132 133 Public Policies ………………..………...……….... 163 173 • Food security through sustainability: an Annex…………………………….………...…………... 180 197 urgent need for change…………………….. 144 145 SBR’s Case Studies: •SBR’s Pendulum of sustainability………..…… 16 •The war room: our arguments for sustainability……………………………..……………… 25 •Our Eco Conscious Cafe………………………..…. 43 •The fear of a sustainable path…………….. …..63 •Roof top garden technology………………….. 102 •Open air concept…………………………………… 105 •Our swimming pool unique treatment process…………………………………………..………...107 •Integrating trees within the structures….. 121 •Our Dinosaur exhibit…………………………….. 124 •Why practice CSR?.................................... 159 SBR’s Villa Wing Blending Life and Leisure with Nature 5 www.silosobeachresort.com SBR’s United Nations Siloso Beach Resort Blending Life and Leisure with Nature Global Compact Commitment Global Compact 10 Principles UN Global Compact As per 1st February 2012, SBR is proud to be a new Categories Global compact 10 principles member of the United Nation Global Compact. Human rights • Principle 1: Businesses should About the United Nations Global Compact support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human The United Nations Global Compact is a call to companies rights; and everywhere to voluntarily align their operations and strategies with ten universally accepted principles in the • Principle 2: make sure that they are areas of human rights, labour, environment and antinot complicit in human rights corruption, and to take actions in support of UN goals, abuses including the Millennium Development Goals. Endorsed by chief executives, the UN Global Compact is a leadership platform for the development, implementation, and Labour • Principle 3: Businesses should disclosure of responsible corporate policies and practices. uphold the freedom of association Launched in 2000, it is the largest corporate responsibility and the effective recognition of the initiative in the world – with over 8,000 signatories based in right to collective bargaining; more than 135 countries. • Principle 4: the elimination of all For more information:www.unglobalcompact.org. forms of forced and compulsory labour; The UN Global Compact asks companies to embrace, support and enact, within their sphere of influence, a set of • Principle 5: the effective abolition of core values in the areas of human rights, labour standards, child labour; and the environment and anti-corruption. • Principle 6: the elimination of Engaging in the Global Compact and implementing the discrimination in respect of principles will help SBR to: employment and occupation. •improve organizational integration of environmental, social Environment • Principle 7: Businesses should and governance issues. address the company’s expanded business opportunities and risks; support a precautionary approach •improve operational efficiencies; to environmental challenges; •access the experiences and good practices of peers; •acquire practical know-how; • Principle 8: undertake initiatives to •attract, motivate and retain employees; promote greater environmental •increase trust in the company and renew its license to responsibility; and operate; •improve corporate reputation and brand image; • Principle 9: encourage the •engage in a proactive and constructive dialogue with civil development and diffusion of society and other stakeholders; environmentally friendly •strengthen stakeholder relations, both globally and locally; technologies •establish better links with the United Nations; •take a leadership role on critical issues & network with other organizations;. Anti• Principle 10: Businesses should •respond to financial market expectations and improve corruption work against corruption in all its access to capital. forms, including extortion and bribery SBR fully supports and follows the 10 principles of the UN Global Compact Siloso Beach Resort Corporate Sustainability Report 2012 6 SBR’s United Nations Siloso Beach Resort Blending Life and Leisure with Nature Global Compact Commitment This story book is also a: GRI A level Report In order to make this report we have integrated the GRI 3.1 Guidelines within our overall report plan. We report on all GRI indicators. This report was primarily developed to showcase in one document the extent of the very unique sustainability focused Initiatives which have taken place at SBR since its creation. GRI reporting is an important part of this report but not the only scope Siloso Beach Resort Corporate Sustainability Report 2012 7 Siloso Beach Resort Blending Life and Leisure with Nature Welcome Siloso Beach Resort is an Eco Resort on the island of Sentosa in Singapore Siloso Beach Resort Corporate Sustainability Report 2012 8 Siloso Beach Resort Main resort entrance Blending Life and Leisure with Nature At SBR the structures blend with the surrounding vegetation Siloso Beach Resort Corporate Sustainability Report 2012 9 Siloso Beach Resort Introduction Blending Life and Leisure with Nature Our journey towards sustainability Going beyond preserving the vegetal coverage and its inhabiting biodiversity, the buildings were constructed in a way that: At Siloso Beach Resort (SBR), we like to see ourselves as a very special hotel when it comes to sustainability and •Maximise natural lighting through an open concept; environmental values and I would like to highlight what I mean by this: •Maximize natural cooling through efficient design as well as the implementation of unique features such as what Our vision of a sustainable business remains (to the best of our knowledge) the longest selfmaintained roof top garden in Singapore; Even before SBR was conceived more than 9 years ago, it was decided that it would become an eco-hotel. This hotel •Making use of a very significant amount of re-used would not only adopt unique sustainable features in its materials in the built structure; design, but also act as a showcase of best sustainable practices to all our stakeholders. •Making use of the natural shape of the terrain (for instance our landscape swimming pool has been placed on top of an Coming from a construction background, I have noticed existing maintenance road). first hand over the years the level of very significant impacts that this sector has on our environment. It was •Rainwater harvesting and purification passive features; our vision that perhaps the construction of a hotel, which showcases how things can be done differently while still At SBR we believe that real sustainability can only come remaining a viable business model, could play a significant from good initial design to minimize environmental role in progressing towards a less impactful industry impacts and maximise energy efficiency through passive sector. means. This is what we are actively trying to promote. Since this vision was first conceptualized, we have gone a Post-construction long way and are still growing strong into what has become our journey towards sustainability. Following the success of the construction phase, it quickly became apparent that much more could be achieved than The construction phase just growing the business without further consideration for the environment. On the contrary we had to take This journey did not start without major obstacles. At the advantage of this unique position to continue on our path time of construction, our vision of a sustainable hotel was of sustainability through retrofitting and Cleantech seen very unusual by many of our contractors and investments. stakeholders and it took determination and passion to proceed in making it a reality, the way we wanted it to be. As such, numerous initiatives and investments have gone into further reducing the environmental impacts postPerhaps one of our strongest and most unusual construction. To site a few: determinations was to preserve all the existing trees on site. The location on a forested part of Sentosa Water minimization through numerous water saving and on a hill side was not proven so easy. In order to features including an elaborate water treatment system. preserve these trees we had to apply most unusual This system makes use of an underground natural spring construction techniques. These measures have reservoir which was discovered during construction (all allowed us to construct a 200 room hotel while the water for gardening and other applications such as the preserving over 200 fully grown trees and pool is not making use of any precious tap water but instead uses a natural resource that we have the chance of planting another 450 trees post construction. At having on site); SBR the trees are literally integrated within the buildings structures. Energy use minimization through smart appliances (best in class energy efficient lighting solution) but most notably through the early investment in a third generation heat exchange… 10 Introduction Siloso Beach Resort Blending Life and Leisure with Nature Our journey towards sustainability ..system which was one of the first to be installed in direct donations or providing facilities. Singapore; One of our most recent donation was for an amount of half •Waste management: through various practices but also a million dollars to the National University of Singapore for through investments such as our food waste decomposer the purpose of raising funds to bring real dinosaurs to (one of the first to be tested in Singapore) as well as Singapore. through our active recycling program. Special projects and R&D Management and outreach SBR has embarked on a range of very special projects that The next logical step in our journey towards becoming a many may see as very unusual in a hotel environment. Some more sustainable business model was to relook into our of these projects include: management to incorporate sustainable practices at all level of operations. This was already -Roof top gardening: where we produce our own implemented since the beginning but we went into a great vegetables organically using an experimental worm deal of effort to revamp our policies, staff training and composting system that we manage on site. Part of the outreach policies to push the concept of sustainability production goes back to our F&B department. even further and making sure that it is well integrated and communicated throughout the organization, not just as -The display of real dinosaur bones on site in order to guidelines, but more like a corporate culture. promote the upcoming Singapore Natural History Museum and outreach on conservation issues. CSR -Numerous environmental outreach messages onsite through CSR was the most visible change in our outreach initiative. various means such as mascots, display panels, in house The level of commitment to outreach on sustainable environmental TV channels and more, which we use to initiatives through our CSR programs is truly an promote awareness on the most pressing global and local achievement. SBR has since been running very successful environmental issues such as Global Climate Change, pollution, outreach programs. biodiversity losses, water conservation… Some of our most visible outreach platforms to date Our credentials as a small business promoting include the Biodiversity Portal of Singapore sustainability practices: (www.biodiversity.sg) as well as our very successful Eco Tours which we use to communicate our practices to SBR is the winner/recipient of the: various stakeholders (to date more than 3000 people from sectors as diverse as schools, universities, corporations, •Singapore Environment Achievement Awards (Top achiever government agencies…have undertaken our eco tours). 2010); •The Singapore Sustainability Award (Top honour 2011); We regularly outreach on global environmental issues •Singapore CSR Award (special mention 2010); through our contribution to www.eco-business.com (one •The first hotel in South East Asia to be certified as an Eco Hotel of Asia pacific largest environmental business from TUV Rheinland (international certification body); communities). We are regularly featured in press releases •The first hotel in Singapore to be certified under the Singapore as well as articles and blogs on sustainability best practices Environment Council Eco hotel certification Scheme (we served not just in Singapore but increasingly on an international as the model to develop this scheme); level. •One of the first hotels in Singapore to join The UN Global Compact; Donations •And numerous very unique environmental related programs, We regularly donate to various environment or social related causes should it be in the form of sponsorship of events, Siloso Beach Resort Corporate Sustainability Report 2012 11 Siloso Beach Resort Introduction Blending Life and Leisure with Nature Our journey towards sustainability Commitment In early 2012 SBR joined the UN Global Compact, and is committed to continually supporting the initiative and its ten principles on human rights, labour, environment, and anti-corruption. At SBR we are convinced that corporate sustainability is the only way forward and we will continue on our journey towards continuous improvement in this direction. We believe that a single small business like ourselves can play a role by not just adopting such practices to our own business but, in our opinion even more importantly, to remain active in sharing these practices by outreaching to society and possibly inspiring many others to adopt a similar development path. Perhaps our most driving conviction behind all of this is that as a hotel environment we are indeed in a position to influence and possibly educate people from all kinds of origins, nationalities, business sectors and interests, on a range of pressing environmental issues. The feeling that we are actually doing this is one of our greatest achievements. I hope that the above very brief highlight gives you an overview of what we are trying to do for the environment and sustainability in general even though we are just a small business and that the following report could inspire many other businesses to embark on this journey of sustainability with us. SBR’s waterfall Sincerely, Mr Kelvin Ng, Owner/Executive Director, Siloso Beach Resort Siloso Beach Resort Corporate Sustainability Report 2012 12 Siloso Beach Resort Blending Life and Leisure with Nature SBR’s Central Court & pool by night Vision: The Resort aims to set the environmental •Each one of us needs to change our critical benchmark to allow our guests and the community behaviors and be environmentally conscious on a to experience a quality eco friendly environment daily basis; that will encourage them to adopt environmental initiatives •Community and customers are essential to our long term success and we need their involvement and Mission: The Resort will continuously strive to support to build a successful and sustainable reduce its ecological impact by adopting best environment program; practices and applying appropriate new technologies •We need a complete and holistic approach in Values: At the resort we believe that: tackling environmental challenges; •Our commitment to the environment begins with •Our plans, strategies, people and processes must be our employees, stakeholders, customers and built on the foundations of continuous community. It requires both enormous dedication improvement. and real ingenuity and is a long term process; •Providing quality services and accommodation to our customers Siloso Beach Resort Corporate Sustainability Report 2012 13 The story of Siloso Beach Siloso Beach Resort Resort Blending Life and Leisure with Nature The SBR Story This sustainability report, the first of a coming annual series, is set to mark a new era at Siloso It is precisely this potential to make a real change by (SBR) is a Beach Resort. Siloso Beach Resort influencing the numerous guests who transit very unique hotel in many ways and through the facilities that has pushed SBR in this direction. The hotel industry is one that has the most potential to this report intends to highlight the reasons why. influence many people, yet it is also one of the sectors that has made little progress in this field. Following the implementation of numerous sustainable initiatives, best practices and policies, it One single business adopting and showcasing sustainable became apparent that the next step for SBR to practices can influence many others to adopt a similar embark-on would be to produce a sustainability development path: report that would provide a highlight of the journey into a single document. Single business SBR is proud to be one of the very few hotels which purposely built, from its Influence was conception, to be an Eco Hotel and to apply best sustainable practices throughout all its operations. The commitment of SBR to be a Other businesses reference in the sustainability field is strongly present in daily operations. This report tells the Story behind the mind-set that has led to what SBR is today, the different stages of development and the unprecedented commitment of its management to set the benchmark of a new Significant changes era of sustainable business models in the leisure industry and to continually pursue in this direction. Realisation of a rapidly changing world One of the main drivers behind SBR adopting a sustainable business model is the realisation and acceptance by its management that we live in a fast changing world in which environmental issues are high on the agenda and in which businesses have an important role to play to help limit these impacts. Constructing an eco-resort from the very start Global concerns such as climate change, pollution, biodiversity losses, fresh water depletion and more, SBR’s view is that in this type of business (built are of great concern to current and future environment/hospitality) integrating sustainable practices generations and something needs to be done. from the very beginning (and in particular the construction phase) is key as there is only so much that can be achieved SBR believes that it can play its part by reducing in reducing environmental impacts post-construction. If a environmental impacts on its premises through the developer is in a position to implement sustainable adoption of sustainable practices at all levels of thoughts from the very beginning, then it should be done at operations but also by sharing its opinions and this stage. initiatives with society through its CSR programs. It is apparent that while one single organisation can only make small and often insignificant differences on a national or even global scale through its daily operations, it can have very significant impacts on a larger scale by influencing various stakeholders and society at large. Siloso Beach Resort Corporate Sustainability Report 2012 14 At Siloso Beach Resort (SBR) the concept of Siloso Beach Resort sustainability is not new, in fact even before the Blending Life and Leisure with Nature The SBR Story hotel was built more than seven years ago, it was decided that SBR would adopt a sustainable business model. At this stage three key decisions were made which were considered highly unusual Economically viable: with average high hotel occupancy, at the time: SBR is not only a sustainable hotel but an economically viable business as well that will continue to use its facilities as a showcase of sustainable practices and a test-bed of Our 3 guiding principles: environmentally friendly technologies. 1) The natural terrain would be preserved; Siloso Beach Resort, Sentosa, is a recognised and certified eco-hotel from TUV-Rheinland and the 2) The trees would be preserved; Singapore Environment Council (certified from 2010/2011). Additionally SBR is the winner of the Singapore 3) The resort would have minimum Environment Achievement Award (2010/2011), the winner covered area. of the Singapre Sustainability Award (2011/2012) and the recipient of a special mention award from Singapore Since then the concept of sustainability has been Compact for CSR. well established and remains a core component of the business model with strong initiatives at all Our philosophy levels of operations: “Making money? Our life, besides making money, is also about happiness, enjoyment, health, and continuity. This is our company philosophy.. ..How can businesses continue into the future if they cannot anticipate the world environmental problems? It is for the simple fact that consumer awareness will lead to less profitability in Unique Environmental attributes: with features such as truly innovative environmentally friendly the long run for those who do not practice construction techniques; the longest self-sustained sustainability.” rooftop garden in Singapore; the only 100% spring water landscape swimming pool in Singapore; and numerous other unique environmental practices Mr Ng Swee Hwa and initiatives in a hotel environment. Chairman/Owner of Siloso Beach Resort Socially responsible: with features such as SBR Eco Tours; regular sponsorship of numerous sustainability events; and its latest CSR program: The Biodiversity Portal of Singapore, SBR continuously gives back to society and actively promotes the concept of sustainability. Siloso Beach Resort Corporate Sustainability Report 2012 15 Case study : Siloso Beach Resort Blending Life and Leisure with Nature SBR’s Pendulum of SustainabilityTM 1 “ 2 “ ” 4 3 “ “ ” 5 “ ” 6 “ ” “ 7 ” ” Siloso Beach Resort Corporate Sustainability Report 2012 16 Siloso Beach Resort Blending Life and Leisure with Nature Deck near reception SBR environmental statement: “SBR is committed to provide a memorable leisure experience while adopting and showcasing environmental and sustainability best practices. Our model is to first protect nature, then to reduce, reuse and recycle” Siloso Beach Resort Corporate Sustainability Report 2012 17 Impacts, Risks & Opportunities Siloso Beach Resort SBR’s Waterfall Blending Life and Leisure with Nature In addition to being an enjoyment for our guests, our waterfall is also part of an innovative swimming pool treatment system Siloso Beach Resort Corporate Sustainability Report 2012 18 Impacts, Risks & Opportunities Siloso Beach Resort A jungle resort Blending Life and Leisure with Nature SBR Central space At SBR, the vegetal coverage is so dense that most of our buildings & structures appear hidden in the vegetation Siloso Beach Resort Corporate Sustainability Report 2012 19 Impacts, Risks & Opportunities 1.2 Description of key impacts, risks, and Siloso Beach Resort opportunities Blending Life and Leisure with Nature As an hotel business, Siloso Beach Resort acknowledges the fact that its operations have Main processes in place to address performance impacts on the surrounding environment and sustainability in general. and/or relevant changes In order to address performance, SBR has a sustainability Key environmental impacts are of committee in place. The committee meets at least twice various sort, the below points highlights the major a year to assess the progress made and benchmark against ones: standards and targets. Under the guidance of the committee, annual targets are set to address key SBR key impacts sustainability issues. Key performance indicators are •Use of natural resources: Concrete products also put into place by the committee to monitor and track (sand, limestone…), steel and other metals, wood changes and progress over time. products, living resources (F&B)… During these meetings, issues regarding performance and •Atmospheric Emissions: Mostly from energy potential required changes are addressed which often leads consumption which in Singapore originates from to strategic planning and setting up targets and objectives. the combustion of natural gas. Other emissions are from activities such as transports, gardening and other maintenance activities. •Land disturbance: Construction activities have required to disturb the original landscape (despite that tremendous and unique efforts that have been made to limit the impacts). •Noise disturbance: During construction and hotel operations •Water consumption: Consumption of tap water from the network •Water contamination: Rejects of contaminated water from operations to drains •Wastes : Various wastes (organic, & non-organic) •Biodiversity: As a forested terrain, SBR activities SBR sustainability committee regularly addresses have an impact on biodiversity (despite tremendous performances and applies changes as needed and unique efforts made to reduce the impacts). Approach to prioritizing these challenges and opportunities SBR considers all the above impacts to be important but it also acknowledges that some have higher impacts than others and therefore should be given different reduction priorities. Many of these impacts (not all) are regulated under Singapore law (e.g. noise, water contamination…). SBR is proud to meet and in most instances SBR acknowledges the fact that its exceed these legal requirements. activities, as a business, have impacts on the surrounding environment and that it can work towards reducing these impacts Siloso Beach Resort Corporate Sustainability Report 2012 20 Demystifying the concept of Siloso Beach Resort sustainable construction Blending Life and Leisure with Nature SBR Opinion (This article was first published in Any sustainable construction project should take this point ecobusiness.com as part of SBR sustainability into consideration and at most displace the trees and reoutreach program) plant them rather than cutting them down. This point becomes increasingly important in locations that are rich in There is a widespread misperception within the biodiversity or un-touched forested terrains. Furthermore, construction sector of what it really means to building projects should then work towards replanting reduce the environmental load of buildings. numerous new trees and plants on site (preferably local While efforts to save energy are intensifying, species). Other important elements that any modern other aspects are often forgotten. This article sustainable construction projects should adopt involve presents what sustainable construction should extensive use of the now well proven technologies of be in a seven step process. rooftop gardens and vertical green walls, which significantly increase the vegetal coverage and provide a range of other The construction sector has enormous benefits. environmental impact. From a climate perspective alone, buildings’ greenhouse gas 2. Maximising natural cooling/heating: In warm climates, it emissions are significant and growing fast. is very important during the design stage to plan for Furthermore, construction materials are maximising the use of natural air flow and cooling. This can responsible for tremendous damage through be achieved in a range of ways, starting from buildings mining, deforestation and other impacts resulting dispositions and how they are conceived to amplify and from their production and supply. Without major capture air breezes. There are also a number of passive ways changes in practices, at some point this century to capture wind and create air flows within buildings through we will simply run out of some of the key a chimney effect. Simply using well-chosen materials can resources (e.g. certain metals) required to keep help maximise natural cooling as well. Any passive cooling up with the explosive growth in building demand. effect will contribute to significantly reducing the energy We are simply exploiting resources at a much load of the buildings. Excessive use of air conditioning (which greater rate than the planet can sustain. is a major source of energy usage in warm countries) is the less desirable alternative and often due to poor cooling While most current efforts in sustainable efficiency design. In cooler and temperate climates, the construction projects are put into energy same principle and efforts should be applied in designing efficiency, sustainability is not limited to this well insulated projects that retain and circulate the heat aspect. Another apparent trend is that still too with minimal energy input. often thoughts on how to make new buildings “green” are only addressed in the final stages of 3. Maximising natural lighting: Another very important construction (retrofitting). While this practice is aspect to consider at the design stage is the maximum use of relevant to existing buildings, it is the wrong natural lighting. The best way to achieve this is once again approach for new buildings. The vast majority of through good design that takes into account aspects such as successful sustainability elements in a building orientation, open concept and the type of material construction project goes into the initial design. used. Whatever can be done to naturally brighten indoor spaces will reduce the need for artificial lights at a later 1. Preserving the terrain/vegetal coverage: Most stage. The vast majority of buildings use artificial lighting construction project managers still choose the during daytime simply because nobody considered lighting easiest and most destructive option of clearing all during the design process. vegetation from a construction site. We must understand that any trees (especially grown 4. Choosing core sustainable construction materials: Most ones) are valuable in terms of biodiversity and buildings today use unsustainable materials such a ecosystem services, and take a long time to conventional concrete for their core construction. There are regrow. It makes more sense to preserve them now a number of alternatives, including modified cement on site and to adapt the construction design in that contains a high percentage of recycled material (e.g. fly consequence. There are few examples of ash), materials from more sustainable sources (e.g. bamboo, constructions which have successfully managed pine trees from well managed plantations) or raw materials to preserve trees and built around them, or even from natural sources such as clay (e.g. mud bricks). incorporated them within the structure. Moreover, certain construction techniques can significantly reduce the use of structural steel (e.g. Ferro-cement) and the amount of material used (e.g. geodesic designs, partial This article was published to underground structures). highlight our views on sustainable constructions Siloso Beach Resort Corporate Sustainability Report 2012 21 But probably one of the simplest alternatives is Siloso Beach Resort to start to integrate a much greater proportion of reused materials in new construction projects; Blending Life and Leisure with Nature SBR Opinion even today the vast majority of materials at demolition sites is being wasted. In addition to • Collecting and filtering rainwater and rethese measures, much more research is required distributing the excess to the grid to develop more sustainable materials. • Producing electricity from renewable sources and redistributing the excess to the grid 5. Retrofitting’s: Once a building’s design and • Collecting waste and valuing it by reusing certain core construction is complete, numerous factors types in a closed-loop model or reselling or such as appliances and materials still need to be distributing unwanted items, which in many cases considered. As a general rule any appliances can be seen as valuable resources for other going into such a project should have fewer businesses environmental impacts than similar products on the market. Certain organisations identify and Pushing the concept further, some buildings are starting to certify such products using eco-labels, energy explore the idea of producing part of their food supplies on and water efficiency labels, etc., and a wide site or nearby the structures. Vertical farming and eliminating range of certified products are now available for the reliance on external sources is key for the buildings of the developers to choose from. In addition to the future. environmental impacts of products throughout their life cycle, aspects such as indoor air quality 7. Management: Last but not least, even if a building is well (some products pollute the indoor air with designed and retrofitted with environmentally friendly chemical emissions such as formaldehyde) should features, the human factor still plays an important role in how also be considered. A number of new resources are used. It is therefore important that any technologies can be installed in buildings to allow sustainable building is managed in an environmentally friendly developers to further conserve resources. way and operates according to clear environment management guidelines. 6. Energy and resources independence: Most locations still rely on fossil fuel based electricity. For the reasons given above, green buildings will only really It makes little sense for a sustainable building to take off once much more attention is given to training the source its energy from such supplies, which are people involved in the development of buildings, including putting a heavy load on our environment. There architects, developers and designers, and providing them the are now options to build construction projects tools to design and construct more sustainably. Government that are completely off-grid and rely on a support through stricter legislations and incentives will drive combination of renewable energy sources such the movement forward. as solar, wind and geothermal. With a good design, it is easy to produce more energy than a The real concept of a sustainable building is that of a ‘living building actually needs. The same independence building’, by which I mean buildings that give more back to the concept applies to other resources. In fact any environment than they take. We must shift from the current so-called sustainable building should now environmentally destructive construction projects to some seriously look at ways of closing resource loops that provide long term benefits both to the environment and through projects now proven as feasible and society. A combination of good design and smart, efficient profitable through initiatives such as: technology is the formula to adopt; and designing buildings with sustainability in mind from the beginning should be compulsory. On a last note, we must understand that sustainable buildings don’t only make sense in terms of reducing the environmental impact, but they also increasingly make good business sense for the security and savings that can be achieved. Article by Sylvain Richer de Forges Siloso Beach Resort Corporate Sustainability Report 2012 22 Environmental Impacts Impacts, Risks & Opportunities Siloso Beach Resort •Use of natural resources: (high priority) As a hotel Blending Life and Leisure with Nature environment the usage of natural resources is high. There are however a multitude of ways in which these impacts can be reduced. Key conclusions about progress in addressing •Atmospheric Emissions: (high priority) SBR these topics and related performance in the acknowledges the seriousness of climate change reporting period and believes that it can play its role by significantly reducing its emissions and showcasing these efforts. •Use of natural resources: Numerous progress have been made to reduce the usage of natural resources of all sorts. •Land disturbance: (high priority) Because SBR has Current achievements are judged satisfactory and SBR will been built on a pristine forested environment, continue to pursue its natural resources minimization preserving the terrain has always been of high strategy with targets for continuous improvements. importance. •Atmospheric Emissions: Numerous initiatives have been •Noise: (low priority) SBR operates at below legal taken to reduce energy consumption. There is still a lot that noise level. Noise has never been an issue within can be achieved at SBR in terms of reducing emissions. SBR the hotel facilities. SBR however closely monitors its has identified this aspect as one of its priorities for the noise levels to ensure no disturbance to its guests coming years. or wildlife is made. •Land disturbance: Tremendous efforts have been put since •Water consumption: (high priority) SBR the very beginning of construction work. Land disturbance continuously pushes to reduce its tap water usage. reduction efforts have been very successful. SBR will However, due to the unique location of the resort continue to push for limited impacts in this field. above a natural water source and numerous water saving measures in place, tap water consumption is •Noise: Noise levels have never been an issue within the already very low for a hotel of its size. premises. SBR will continue to push for limited impacts in this field. •Wastes: (high priority) SBR already has many programs in place to reduce its wastes, often by •Water consumption: Initiatives undertaken at SBR since its reusing whatever waste can be utilised in other conception have resulted in a very low water consumption. ways. SBR actively practices the 3R’s. Water saving has been very present. SBR will continue to push for limited impacts in this field. •Biodiversity: (high priority) Because SBR has been built on a pristine forested terrain, preserving the •Water contamination: SBR does not have rejects of biodiversity on site has always been of high hazardous substances in significant amounts. Water importance. contamination at SBR is judged to date insignificant. •Energy use: (high priority) SBR is continuously •Wastes: Since its conception, SBR has implemented trying new ways to reduce its energy usage through numerous programs to reduce its wastes. Initiatives have the adoption of new practices and technologies. resulted in very minimal waste being generated including from the F&B department. SBR will continue to push for limited impacts in this field. •Biodiversity: Since its construction phase, SBR has taken extreme measures to preserve the biodiversity on site. This aspect has been very successful and exemplary. SBR will continue to push for limited impacts in this field. •Energy use: Great achievements have already taken place at SBR to reduce energy usage and the hotel will continue to push for improvements. For a complete list of departments individual targets please refer to annex Siloso Beach Resort Corporate Sustainability Report 2012 23 Impacts, Risks & Opportunities Siloso Beach Resort Our villa‘s wing Blending Life and Leisure with Nature SBR Villa Wing A truly unique retreat surrounded by nature… Siloso Beach Resort Corporate Sustainability Report 2012 24 Case study : Siloso Beach Resort Blending Life and Leisure with Nature The “War Room”: our arguments 2 for sustainability “ ’ 1 “ ’ ’ ’ ” ” 3 “ ” “ 4 5 ” “ 7 ” “ “ 6 ” 8 “ ’ ” 9 “ ’ ” ’ ” “ 10 ” In summary: Be sustainable…or else..!!! Siloso Beach Resort Corporate Sustainability Report 2012 25 Assessing Materiality Impacts, Risks & Opportunities Siloso Beach Resort Elements of primary importance : Blending Life and Leisure with Nature Of course as a business, our priorities are not only towards the environment. The below highlights a bigger picture of our priorities: •Through various surveys and internal discussions the below profile of materiality for the organization comes out. While all aspects listed below are important to SBR and its stakeholders , we can within this shortlist assign areas of importance based on the compilation of both SBR’s as well as stakeholders preferences. •First it is not surprising that as a hotel, guest satisfaction and safety rank high. •It is probably surprising to most people that SBR does not see marketing or financial profit as its top priority. Marketing: SBR always had a soft marketing policy and relies mostly on a mouth to mouth approach to marketing rather than actively promoting its services. Financial profit: SBR as always been more of a social enterprise rather than a for profit business. It is important for SBR that its business is self-sustained and from a financial point of view the hotel has been doing reasonably well since its creation which can be seen as a good example that a business applying most unusual sustainability practices can also do well financially. 10 Service quality Marketing Guests satisfaction Importance to stakeholders Safety (guests + staff) Regulatory requirements Energy consumption Water resources Carbon emissions Financial profit Social responsibility Environmental outreach Honesty Waste generated Onsite Biodiversity Ethical business practices Employees satisfaction Customer feedback Innovation and R&D 0 10 Internal importance Siloso Beach Resort Corporate Sustainability Report 2012 26 Impacts, Risks & Opportunities Description of the most important risks Siloso Beach Resort and opportunities for the organization Blending Life and Leisure with Nature arising from sustainability trends; SBR is conscious that many sustainability trends Prioritization of key sustainability topics as risks both local and international are a risk to the and opportunities; business but SBR tends to see them as opportunities. The below points highlight what SBR SBR addresses sustainability topics in a very holistic way. Its has identified as major risks to its operations both in approach is not just focused on local issues but also on the short and long term and the opportunities that international sustainability aspects. they create. SBR has identified the following aspects as priorities: Risks Opportunities Climate change related Global Climate Change; risks: -Opportunity for Global Biodiversity Loss; Investment in Cleantech in Global depletion of fresh water resources; -Sea level rise (as a beach anticipation of rising Operations Financial growth. resort, SBR is very energy costs. concerned about this SBR believes that it can play its role in all of the above to trend) . -Opportunity for various extents (mostly by raising awareness on the issues), partnerships with various however it also believes it can be more effective by focusing -Increase of occurrence of stakeholders in raising on particular aspects. For this reason, biodiversity issues vector borne diseases (e.g. awareness on these have been chosen as SBR’s primary focus point. Dengue). As SBR’s facilities topics. are on a densely vegetated terrain, Tables summarizing: Targets, performance increase of mosquito against targets, and lessons learned for the occurrence is a concern. current reporting period; -Rise in ambient SBR is very target oriented. The following sections highlight temperatures (and these targets therefore rise in energy needs) . “ -Implementation of more severe government tax on aspects such as emissions, water consumption in response to mounting environmental pressures. Global financial instabilities: World financial instability. ” -Opportunities to secure As a business significantly business sustainability by dependant on foreign diversifying the business tourists, financial crises have a direct impact on SBR’s operations. -Opportunities to invest in cleaner technologies Local pollution and anticipate for future pollution taxes Siloso Beach Resort Corporate Sustainability Report 2012 27 Impacts, Risks & Opportunities Siloso Beach Resort Targets Blending Life and Leisure with Nature SBR is very target oriented, every year old targets are reviewed and new ones are set. SBR has in fact been setting itself targets since its conception and has an excellent track record of meeting the targets that it fixes itself. Below is a list of previous targets which have been set over the years. Most of these targets have been achieved. A list of targets set for years prior to the reporting period are available in annex 2012 Targets for next reporting period: Component Target Comment Marketing To develop new interactive components on the main In progress website which includes a virtual map of the entire resort Financial profit To continue a positive financial growth compared to Continuous financial previous financial year growth is an indicator of a healthy and sustainable business Guests satisfaction • To improve guest satisfaction by renovating main SBR has started a major wing rooms and suites renovation of its rooms • Change all corridor carpets with 100% recycled which amongst others rubber mats (numerous positive feedbacks have include changing all the been received from this change) floors from current carpets to wood as well as significant design and appliances changes Service quality • Review of various quality control policies and In progress implementation of new SOP’s in accordance to six sigma guidelines Safety • Comply with bizSAFE level 3 standards • Implement various safety information messages • Renovate the outdoor stairs Regulatory Continue to comply and exceed with all regulations Continuous monitoring requirements Energy Consumption Assessment of resort individual appliances energy In view of better consumption understanding of the hotel carbon footprint Water resources • Retrofit all urinals with waterless technologies and In progress continue to educate staff and guests on water saving initiatives • Apply for Singapore Water mark Award Carbon emissions • Monitoring phase: continue to gain a clearer In progress assessment of individual appliances energy consumption Siloso Beach Resort Corporate Sustainability Report 2012 28 Impacts, Risks & Opportunities Siloso Beach Resort Targets Blending Life and Leisure with Nature 2012 Targets for next reporting period (continue): Component Target Comment Employees satisfaction Revision of various staff salary and In progress. In March 2012 SBR implementation of new bonus systems has hired a new staff to look specifically into staff satisfaction Customer feedback Implement various new means for guests to In progress provide feedback through interactive questionnaires, on site surveys and other means Innovation and R&D To further develop the worm composting and SBR’s unique worm composting rooftop gardening facilities. To collect valuable system has worked very well data on the matter since its implementation and numerous valuable findings have been made Social responsibility • Sponsorship of various CSR related events. SBR plans to sponsor various • Continue to expend and develop the eco events this year tour program Environmental outreach • Implementation of new outreach materials In progress throughout the resort. Especially the development of the SBR mascot concept to outreach on key environmental issues • Publications of various articles on environmental outreach on ecobusiness.com Honesty Continue to be transparent and honest in the Continuous effort way SBR operates its business Waste generated • Continue to segregate various types of In progress wastes • Print new concept for recycling posters around the resort • Improve waste collection by 3% compared to previous year Onsite biodiversity • Continue to trial an alternative mosquito In progress control treatment using bacteria • Implement 3 new self maintained ponds throughout the resort • Expand roof garden facilities by 20% Ethical business • Continue to practice business in the most Continuous effort practices ethical way • Attend various seminars and events on ethical business practices Siloso Beach Resort Corporate Sustainability Report 2012 29 Impacts, Risks & Opportunities Our swimming pool is one Siloso Beach Resort Blending Life and Leisure with Nature of a kind Our swimming pool is the heart of our resort Siloso Beach Resort Corporate Sustainability Report 2012 30 Why at SBR we consider climate change Siloso Beach Resort as a risk? Blending Life and Leisure with Nature SBR Opinion (This article was first published in Many signs of upcoming changes from positive feedbacks ecobusiness.com as part of SBR sustainability are already highly noticeable and measurable (e.g. release of outreach program) methane gas from the melting permafrost; sea ice melt exposing darker ocean surfaces in the Arctic…). All seem to Climate forcing and the threats of indicate that positive feedback mechanisms are on the rise feedback mechanisms and will intensify throughout the century, largely overtaking negative feedback effects which would normally act as a While we tend to plan for the future based buffer in the systems. on current climate inputs and observations, we should also look ahead The uncertainty and take into consideration the dramatic turn of events that could result from Most climate models (which shape policy decisions) are positive feedback mechanisms. based on predictions which account for a range of inputs such as emissions scenarios (global amount of GHGs A brief overview of feedback mechanisms emitted); however few if any seriously consider how systems will evolve when feedback mechanisms are added into the Feedback mechanisms are processes which equation. are the direct consequences of other events. Basically, there are two types of feedbacks: The main reason is that systems are incredibly complex. positive feedbacks which amplify the onModelling some of these impacts is proving very difficult, going trends and negative feedbacks which especially certain aspects such as atmospheric water vapour soften them. As an illustration, two examples that have both positive and negative feedback effects. of simple feedback mechanisms are given below: However, reasoning on logical deductions and how systems are likely to react should lead the way to anticipation and a Positive feedback: The warmer the climate more cautious approach. Some of these positive feedbacks (e.g. heat waves), the more energy we really have the potential to shift the situation from currently consume (e.g. air conditioning), the more alarming to dramatic and irreversible in a short time. GHGs are emitted and therefore the warmer the climate will get. We tend to forget that Citing David Suzuki: “We are playing Russian roulette with human behaviour in response to a changing features of the planet’s atmosphere that will profoundly world is in fact a powerful feedback impact generations to come. How long are we willing to mechanism. gamble?” Negative feedback: The warmer the climate; An unwanted but possibly unavoidable solution the more water vapour in the atmosphere at any given time; the more clouds which have If positive feedbacks become a factor as predicted by many white surfaces reflective of incoming solar climate scientists, our only option may end up being radiations; the cooler the temperatures. Note deliberate human negative feedback on a massive scale. We however that water vapour is also a strong may be forced to attempt to counter warming trends greenhouse gas and therefore also has a through technological inputs, the most extreme of these positive feedback effect. actions being Earth Engineering. Natural equilibrium versus destabilisation Earth Engineering, which is the process of humans Over billions of years of Earth history, the voluntarily modifying natural systems on a global scale, is planet has been subject to a series of however not without serious consequences and is often dramatic events. In between such events, considered a last resort. systems on Earth have reached equilibriums which are governed by closed loop systems It may seem like science-fiction but ideas such as injecting and a balance between positive and negative sulphur compounds into the upper atmosphere; producing feedback mechanisms. artificial fine clouds on a large scale; fertilising oceans to absorb carbon dioxide; deploying a reflective membrane in The current trend however is for human the Artic or even sending millions of small mirrors into space activities to modify some of these natural to divert the sun rays are ideas which have been proposed equilibriums by increasing disorder in the and seriously considered to cool down the Earth. Earth systems. Siloso Beach Resort Corporate Sustainability Report 2012 31 The business case Siloso Beach Resort However, in addition of being extremely risky, Blending Life and Leisure with Nature SBR Opinion all of these engineering measures are also astronomically expensive and far more costly than mitigation measures such as cutting down current GHG emissions and shifting to a low carbon economy. It is clear from an economical point of view that the cost of dealing with the consequences of climate change will far exceed the cost of mitigating it. This argument has been given over and over again by some leading economists (e.g. The Stern report). Furthermore we should act fast because we are running out of time. Indeed, because GHGs remain in the atmosphere for extended periods of time, they have been accumulating. We are reaching the point of no return after which the current focus on reducing GHG emissions will no longer make much difference on the outcome (i.e. even the smallest effects will already be dramatic). Once this point is passed, the next step will probably be to try to remove certain GHGs from the atmosphere on a large scale (which may simply take too long) followed by the final option of earth engineering. 2 “ The more we wait, the more extreme and outlandishly expensive the solutions become. We are truly racing against time and need to intensify our efforts of cutting down GHG emissions through the deployment of renewable energy; shifting away from fossil fuels and intensifying research to come up with new technological and society solutions. These actions are the ingredients we need to fuel a new economic revolution based on a low carbon economy. The threat of positive feedbacks should be seen as yet another argument to renew our efforts. Article by Sylvain Richer de Forges ” 1 “ ’ ” Siloso Beach Resort Corporate Sustainability Report 2012 32 Impacts, Risks & Opportunities Targets for the next reporting period and Siloso Beach Resort mid-term objectives and goals (i.e., 3-5 Blending Life and Leisure with Nature years) related to key risks and opportunities. Category targets Targetsperiod: for the next reporting Natural resources Reduce the use of natural resources by another 3% (relative to previous reporting Global Biodiversity Loss: period) •Objective: Preservation of biodiversity remains a key aspect of how SBR operates. SBR is committed to preserve Atmospheric Reduce carbon emissions by 3% a rich biodiversity on its premises and to actively promote emissions (relative to previous reporting global biodiversity conservation through outreach period) programs. •Goal: SBR will continue in its efforts to preserve and Land disturbance Continue to increase vegetal increase habitats on its premises in order to host a variety coverage by 3% through roof of species . This includes the preservation of existing trees top gardening and use of other and ponds and existing surfaces their associated species. Noise Keep noise levels at current Water Reduce tap water consumption consumption by 3% (relative to previous Operations financial growth: reporting period) •Objective: SBR takes the concept of sustainability in an Water Further improve the treatment holistic way which encompasses not only environmental contamination of waste water from the resort and social issues but also financial sustainability and before being discharged (e.g. economic growth. SBR intends to continue its business in an further improve grease trap environmentally and socially sustainable way while treatments) remaining financially viable. Wastes Reduce waste by another 3% •Goal: SBR intends to continue to grow the business and (relative to previous reporting achieve long term financial growth. period) Biodiversity Continue to increase Depletion of fresh water resources: biodiversity by providing new habitats for species •Objective: At SBR the water management is already very good and tap water consumption very low for an hotel of its Energy use Further improve energy size. SBR will however continue to intensify efforts to even efficiency through Cleantech. push the water saving initiatives further by both improving Reduce by 3% on water efficiency and by maintaining the health of its spring water reservoir. Mid term objectives and goals •Goal: Invest in Cleantech to better control water Global Climate Change: consumption in guest rooms (where most of the current tap water consumption occurs). •Objective: SBR takes the risks posed by climate change very seriously and will continue to develop Reducing by 3% may not by integrating elements which will both reduce its seem much but carbon emissions and provide adaptive advantages because our waste, to a changing environment. water and energy usage •Goal: In the medium term SBR intends to become is already very low it is a carbon neutral hotel by offsetting its emissions. actually a challenge Siloso Beach Resort Corporate Sustainability Report 2012 33 Governance mechanisms in place to Impacts, Risks & Opportunities specifically manage these risks and Siloso Beach Resort opportunities, and identification of other Blending Life and Leisure with Nature related risks and opportunities. Governance mechanisms: Risks Bi-annual SBR believes that the approach is to integrate ways review to manage these risks within the long term plan of the organisation rather than to ignore them. A long and slow adaptation is a better path than a sudden and unplanned change. The risks identified as significant are taken into consideration during sustainability committee Sustainability Committee meetings and minimisation targets are set to address these risks. Previously set targets and goals are then reassessed during the next meetings and a new set of targets and management decisions are taken to best address these risks. Guidelines Targets Other related risks and opportunities In addition to the primary risks and opportunities identified, SBR has also highlighted other elements Risk Opportunities Safety at work To take appropriate measures to (HSE) ensure a first class safety environment for its staff “ Guests safety To ensure that the place is safe for the guests Development To make the business even more of new hotels competitive especially by in Singapore focusing on our eco concept New To put more emphasis in government developing a local work force rules on foreign hires Increase To put further emphasis in guests improving quality of services and expectations facilities Humidity To redesign aspects of the resort related issues in order to cope better with such in hotel issues facilities Potential To further improve safety onsite Burglary issues through greater surveillance and monitoring Siloso Beach Resort Corporate Sustainability Report 2012 34 Siloso Beach Resort Our open air corridors Blending Life and Leisure with Nature Our open concept corridors SBR’s Open Concept Many places at SBR adopt an open concept, should it be for the corridors, the café area, the gym and other public spaces. This concept allows amongst other benefits to have a feeling of being surrounded by greenery Siloso Beach Resort Corporate Sustainability Report 2012 35 Organizational Profile Organizational Profile Siloso Beach Resort REPORT PROFILE Blending Life and Leisure with Nature 2.1 Name of the organization Using less plastic, energy-saving light bulbs and a smart Siloso Beach Resort Pte Ltd. heat-exchange system can only do so much, so, throughout the Resort, we assimilate nature with comfort recluse, The name of the resort simply reflects the location greenery with cutting-edge technology in a bid to have our name: Indeed, SBR is adjacent to Siloso Beach on guests come to appreciate nature's infinite value. Sentosa Island. At Siloso Beach Resort, the only Eco resort residing on the beautiful island of Sentosa, guests can enjoy the only 2.2 Primary brands, products, and/or natural spring water landscape pool in Singapore, complete services. with a waterfall feature, while relaxing amongst the balmy shades of flora to the soothing sounds of cascading waters. Siloso Beach Resort services are in the leisure There are rooftop garden suites complete with rooftop industry which include: bath, one of a kind in Singapore. •Providing hotel rooms for stay; Facilities: e.g. Sitting at the heart of Singapore's hippest beach Siloso swimming pool, waterfall, water slides, children Beach in Sentosa, the resort's strategic location and lush playground, in-house TV channels, exhibits of foliage within its surroundings, guests find themselves faced various type on site (mostly biodiversity) with a strewn of choices. Bay-windows looking out to white sandy beach rooms, a walk away to the beach, various •Food and beverage: SBR has a single restaurant entertainment outlets and activity booths located along the café in which breakfast and daily meals are served. beach's stretch, offers both scenic and convenient leisure. Company logo: The resort provides an experience of an ideal getaway, for honeymooners and lovers in the mood for a romantic getaway or holidaymakers in search of tranquility on an island beachfront. SBR brands its services under Siloso Beach Resort SBR is directly involved in providing these services and does not outsource for aspects directly related to main business stream. As a family owned and operated business, unlike most other hotels, SBR Nestled within its lush foliage surrounding, Siloso Beach does not outsource the management. Resort hosts a range of rooms to fit the needs of the various guests, from romantic getaways for couples to retreats for Contractors are involved from time to time for holidaymakers. aspects such as: With the main foyer of rooms facing beachfronts, guest •Consultancy rooms are provided a natural backdrop of the sea landscape •Architecture while decking the inner courtyard sprawls a 95m long •Legal affairs natural spring water landscape pool with a waterfall feature, providing a relaxing atmosphere. Hotel services information: It is a love and passion for the environment and Every room is fitted with amenities to ensure that your stay nature that will act as an impetus for us to begin to is both enjoyable and comfortable. care unconditionally for the waning ozone layer, depleting forests and out-of-control pollutants. Siloso Beach Resort Corporate Sustainability Report 2012 36 Siloso Beach Resort Blending Life and Leisure with Nature Central roof top , along suite wing SBR’s extensive roof top space One of the main roof top at SBR is used for a variety of purposes going from a plant nursery to a roof top vegetable farm to open air Jacuzzis to a flexible event space used for special occasions. Siloso Beach Resort Corporate Sustainability Report 2012 37 Organizational Profile Siloso Beach Resort Blending Life and Leisure with Nature Family rooms Rooms and villas Featuring 196 rooms with 6 types to choose from, superior, deluxe, family, roof garden suites, all with bay windows looking over to the beach, a glass loft The family rooms are located at level 2 to 3, each unit and including 12 villas residing among the lush comes completely as a whole room with no partitions that foliage within the resort's tranquil backdrop. Each accommodates up to 4 people per room, with a common with their own characteristics to provide a standing shower cubicle and a common WC cubicle with nocomforting stay. All the beds even come with lock doors* within the room. Equipped with IDD telephone, comfortable Sealy Posturepedic mattresses. internet access, rattan couch, cable channels, safe and tea/coffee making facilities. Our family rooms come with All rooms are non-smoking, as the rooms do not either a queen bed with 2 single beds per room or 4 singles have a balcony; guests who smoke are advised to per room. Room size: 45 sqm. Connecting rooms are smoke outside their rooms. available upon requests, subject to availability. All rooms are NON-SMOKING. Superior rooms *To accommodate children usage. Roof garden suites Our superior rooms are located at level 2 and 3. Equipped with IDD telephone, internet access, cable Located along the top floor of the resort with room views channels, safe and tea/coffee making facilities, facing the sea our roof garden suites have been a favourite attached bathroom with standing shower, there are getaway choice for couples and honeymooners. superior twins and superior queens to select from. Room size: 22 sqm. Connecting rooms are available upon requests, subject to availability. All rooms are Each suite features a private stairway leading to an open air NON-SMOKING. private roof top garden including bathtub with a Jacuzzi where you can rejuvenate and enjoy the magnificent view of the sea and the tropics. At its roof terrace it has 2 deck chairs for sun tanning and an open air outdoor bathtub with Jacuzzi. Room Size: double storey in total of 50 sqm. Our Roof Garden Suites are suitable for couples and honeymooners. Due to the unique room design, additional beds are not available for the suites. All rooms are NONSMOKING Siloso Beach Resort Corporate Sustainability Report 2012 38 Organizational Profile Glass loft Siloso Beach Resort Blending Life and Leisure with Nature The villas carry one of best representations of the green practices. Trees come through the floors, bedrooms, bathrooms, living area, through carefully constructed glass walls within the villas that hold original trees of the terrains The Glass Loft (Tree House) faces the pool and since construction, encased and protected, making the forest and is the one and only exclusive suite of its villas one of a kind. Small wild garden patches along the kind with ceiling to floor picture glass windows that pathways mark the grounds, playing home to plants and overlooks the poolside and lush foliage of the sprouting seedlings of fruit trees around, papayas, coconuts resort. When overlooking from its patio, less than and durians– resonating greenery. 50m away, guests can experience and bathe in their sight the largest tree in Singapore. It features a Ideal for quixotic romantic getaways or private functions to separate bedroom, living room and capacious celebrate an occasion, we are more than happy to assist in balcony. Located on level 7, the intimate suite is making these special occasions a memorable experience. equipped with IDD telephone, internet access, safe, two LCD televisions, cable channels and an attached bathroom with standing shower. Due to its 1 bedroom villa exclusivity, reservation of the glass loft is subject to availability and is required to be addressed by email, which we will be glad to assist. Room Size: 37 sqm. Villas Along a length of walkways that leads to the The 1 bedroom villa comes with a large four poster bed and tranquil fauna environment, you will pass rows of its own living room quarters. Complete with your own mini mini forests and enter a shelter lined with pale, bar, open air Jacuzzi and surrounded with views of the rough sea rocks collected specially from the ocean. natural fauna, relax as you enjoy the tranquillity. Deeper into the green shrubbery, passing some lili pad ponds you will arrive across an expansive Each villa is completely air conditioned, accommodates 2 balcony to the threshold of your very own luxurious staying guests and caters up to 7 people in total for events villa siphoned away from the bustling crowd. and functions. An ideal private getaway for any special private occasions. Within the villa a large four-poster bed shrouded by a beige cotton canopy welcomes you. Each villa is designed differently in accordance to the natural 2 bedroom villa terrains and nature's inlaid trees and comes with their own living area. Ambling through the villa you will find under those sturdy rustic bamboo poles, your own Jacuzzi lined with stunning and unique mosaic tiles, when lit at night those tiny lights that complement with the mosaic work. “ The 2 bedroom villa comes with a large four poster bed and its own living room quarters with room dividers between the living room and second bedroom, it can be swung open to conceal a queen-sized bed that folds easily into a crevice in the wall. ” Siloso Beach Resort Corporate Sustainability Report 2012 39 Siloso Beach Resort Our very unique luxurious villas Blending Life and Leisure with Nature One of the villas, living room Luxury villas with a very special touch While offering 12 luxury high end villas to its guests, the most unusual aspect of these villas is that most of them have several live trees passing straight through the living space. This feature was done as one of the extraordinary efforts to preserve the existing trees on site. It also provides a very special atmosphere to the rooms. Siloso Beach Resort Corporate Sustainability Report 2012 40 Organizational Profile The divider then becomes an aesthetically-pleasing Siloso Beach Resort feature wall that doubles up as a backdrop to Blending Life and Leisure with Nature solemnisations, an intimate birthday party and dining or meeting tables. Complete with your own mini bar, open air Jacuzzi Dining and surrounded with views of the natural fauna, relax as you enjoy the tranquillity. Each villa is completely air conditioned, accommodates 4 staying guests and caters up to 15 people in total for events and functions. Our dining experience caters to more than just an 2 bedroom villa with pool experience, care is taken in minimising carbon footprint while guests enjoy their meals. Dishes are prepared with homegrown herbs within the resort's own garden, from mints to basil and many more spices of a variety. Savour some of our all-time favourites such as fish and chips or try out the grilled fish platter for healthier choices. Our green conscious café The 2 bedroom villa comes with its own pool besides the large four poster beds and its own living room quarters. There are room dividers between Every ingredients used in the menu are ensured with care the living room and second bedroom, which can be to minimise carbon foot print, this includes purchasing swung open to conceal a queen-sized bed that folds ingredient primarily from local sources first and when easily into a crevice in the wall. unavailable purchases will then be made from the next nearest source possible including countries such as Vietnam The divider then becomes an aesthetically-pleasing and Malaysia. feature wall that doubles as a backdrop to solemnisations, an intimate birthday party and Event decors are prepared fully using home grown leafs and dining or meeting tables. flowers as decor, this in turn leads to minimum or no usage of tablecloths. Through a food disposal system, use of Complete with your own mini bar, open air Jacuzzi garbage bags are also minimised. and surrounded with views of the natural fauna, relax as you enjoy the tranquillity. While appreciating the nature around the vicinity, we hope to share the finer details to the dining experience with our Each villa is completely air conditioned, valued diners. From embracing what nature has to offer accommodates 4 staying guests and caters up to 50 around us and aspire to continuously bring that experience people in total for events and functions. to the plate. Events & weddings Residing along the beachfront level is the grand ballroom Eugenia. Spreading across the resort selection of locations includes our Roof Terrace for a spectacular view overlooking the South China Sea, our spring water landscape pool surrounded by lush greenery and a waterfall or any of our villas. A variety of locations to accommodate events, whether for planning a business meeting, an event, a wedding or solemnisation, we have locations to suit all taste. Siloso Beach Resort Corporate Sustainability Report 2012 41 Organizational Profile Our villas offer a unique retreat Siloso Beach Resort Blending Life and Leisure with Nature and peaceful atmosphere SBR 2 bedroom villa with pool Villa self maintained pond Siloso Beach Resort Corporate Sustainability Report 2012 42 Case study: Our Eco Conscious Cafe Siloso Beach Resort Blending Life and Leisure with Nature SBR’s restaurant (like the rest of our resort) has put into place very special policies when it comes to sustainability issues: Siloso Beach Resort Corporate Sustainability Report 2012 43 Siloso Beach Resort Blending Life and Leisure with Nature Romantic getaway Suite room, lower floor Comfortably Furnished Rooms While being surrounded by a lush greenery, SBR offers a range of rooms and suites which provide a comfortable stay. Siloso Beach Resort Corporate Sustainability Report 2012 44 Organizational Profile Meeting & events Siloso Beach Resort Blending Life and Leisure with Nature Weddings and solemnisation Saying I do is one of life's most important and special moments. Treating the occasion's finest moments to a unique atmosphere and experience is ever so important. With a variety of backdrops to choose from, amidst Here at Siloso Beach Resort with various venues of themes a lush greenery or in the comfort of our grand to choose from, guests will find the selections uniquely their ballroom, our event team will work with guests to own. plan their location and event needs. We offers a versality of locations to cater to any Venues: event needs. Whether it’s a corporate meeting, a getaway function or dinner parties, we have the venues of choice. Located along Sentosa's hippest beach, with several entertainment hubs right at our doorstep. Event venues Roof top terrace Eugenia grand ballroom 1-2 bedroom villas By the pool Eugenia grand ballroom Roof top terrace 1-2 bedroom villas Landscape pool Every aspects of the resort’s service offerings provide elements of consideration for the environment, should it be the source of the flowers used to decorate events, the food served and many other aspects. Siloso Beach Resort is an excellent choice for eco conscious travelers looking for a comfortable retreat or venue Siloso Beach Resort Corporate Sustainability Report 2012 45 Siloso Beach Resort Blending Life and Leisure with Nature Sea View from central rooftop Unique sea view SBR offers a unique view of the South China Sea. From its roof top one of the best views of this sea is available. Outstanding sunsets can often be seen. Siloso Beach Resort Corporate Sustainability Report 2012 46 Siloso Beach Resort Singapore’s unique sea scape Blending Life and Leisure with Nature Views from our rooftop terrace In Singapore don’t expect unspoiled views of lagoons and beaches but rather most entertaining views of one of the worlds busiest shipping lines. SBR’s rooftop view offers an outstanding panorama of the commercial shipping line Siloso Beach Resort Corporate Sustainability Report 2012 47 2.3 Operational structure of the Organizational Profile Siloso Beach Resort organization Blending Life and Leisure with Nature Siloso Beach Resort is a family owned Company structural diagram: hotel. Its only site and operations are on Sentosa island. SBR does not have any other operating companies, subsidiaries or joint ventures. SBR has a unique yet simple corporate structure formed of a general management core and dependant departments. Main Divisions Description Front office Takes care of first contact with guests (registration, check out…) and general inquiries Housekeeping Daily rooms and facilities cleaning Maintenance Electrical/mechanical maintenance F&B Food and beverages services Security Resort security and observation Reservations Handling of all reservation matters Sustainability Environment/society/financial sustainability Accounts Handling all accounting matters Human Handling all employees related As this diagram sustainability highlights, the Resources matters Quality services Quality of services monitoring and committee plays a very important role at SBR actions as it serves as a filter to most decisions taken regarding the Gardening All gardening matters (gardening is an company’s operations. The presence of this structure important department at SBR ensures that sustainability is not just a practice but rather considering the extent of vegetal an integral part of the business structure. coverage) 2.4 Location of organization’s headquarters The corporate structure at SBR is unique because: Location: SBR operates from a single site in Sentosa. Sentosa is a small island off the southern coast of •It is a family owned and managed business; Singapore. It is considered part of Singapore and is easily •Corporate sustainability is an integral part of the accessible through various types of transportation. overall management . Registered address: Singapore, 51 Imbiah Walk Sentosa “ Singapore 099538 2.5 Number of countries where the organization operates, and names of countries with either ” “ major operations or that are specifically relevant to the sustainability issues covered in the report. Number of countries where the organization operates: just 1 ” Despite that SBR only operates in Singapore, the sustainability initiatives that it adopts are relevant in any country and due to the international nature of the guests staying at the facilities (from over 50 countries). SBR hopes to outreach on sustainability issues and the role that the hotel industry can play. Siloso Beach Resort Corporate Sustainability Report 2012 48 Organizational Profile Country Reason of importance Siloso Beach Resort Europe Europe has taken a lead over Blending Life and Leisure with Nature many South East Asian countries on the sustainability agenda. SBR has great pride in sharing its initiatives with European guests People from all around the world as a lot can be gained in learning transit through SBR which makes it from best overseas practices a prime sustainability awareness within the European union hub North Same as above America South East Being countries close to home, Asian SBR believes that it can influence countries local SEA guests to apply similar changes within their own countries All other SBR believes that there is a wincountries win situation in interacting with guests from any countries both through learning foreign best The fact that SBR is a privately owned and managed hotel sustainability practices and plays an important role in the unique sustainable initiatives which have taken place at the resort since its creation. influencing foreigners to apply SBR practices in their own Indeed, most hotels around the world are not managed by countries. the owners themselves, which usually employ management companies to do so. However, because the management of One of the driving forces for adopting a sustainable an eco-hotel is very unique and requires passion and business model lies in the fact that as a hotel attention to details in order to achieve minimization of environment, numerous people from impacts at all levels, the owners at SBR have chosen to various countries and background transit manage the hotel themselves. through the facilities. This also means that there is a great potential to passively educate the Limitation factor: Additionally, many hotels are part of bigger chains and the management is often located guests on a range of sustainable best practices overseas. Even if local managers have strong commitments while spending a good time at the resort. As a to make a change by adopting a sustainable business socially responsible corporate citizen, SBR believes model, decisions are often out of their hands which makes it can play its part in educating the society at large. procedures much more complicated. SBR sees itself as a local operation with an international outreach. 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form Siloso Beach Resort is a privately owned and managed hotel. Chairman/Owner: Mr Ng Swee Hwa Executive Director/owner: Mr Kelvin Ng Siloso Beach Resort Corporate Sustainability Report 2012 49 One of SBR’s main concerns: Siloso Beach Resort Can Global Sustainability Be Blending Life and Leisure with Nature SBR Opinion Achieved Without Demographical Considerations? Overpopulation (This article was first published in ecobusiness.com as part of SBR sustainability The source of all problems and our greatest challenge is outreach program) obvious: In 1950 there were 2.5 billion people on Earth. There are currently near 7 billion, and by 2050 experts We are living at a point in time where predict that the world population will exceed 9 billion! While environmental issues are increasing, severe and during the 20th century the high impacts resulting from the high on the agenda. They are reaching such a population and the industrial revolution were buffered by level that they will not only affect us all but also the environment, in a world of 10 billion people or so this shape the future and directions of humanity. will no longer be the case: most ecosystems and natural Since the industrial revolution human related systems on the planet are reaching saturation and are activities have put such amounts of pressures already on the verge of collapse. Two important points must on our environment that we are now entering be taken into consideration: an era of consequences. First point: Unless we significantly shift our development Throughout the 21st Century, we will have to face models to a truly sustainable one and nations come to not one but a range of environmental crises. Of control population growth, environmental catastrophes will all the environmental issues the four main global become increasingly frequent and dramatic concerns of the century are Global Climate . Change; Global Biodiversity Losses; Global Second point: We only have one planet and the fact is that it depletion of fresh water resources and Global simply cannot sustain a 10 billion person population without pollution. Many other major issues are related to major sacrifices to our current environment and way of life. these including poverty, food security, social stability and world peace. Experts have warned Population growth is a major step-back in terms of making that unless significant actions and drastic changes any significant progress in reducing global environmental are taken today, all the above will inevitably lead impacts. While most nations agree that something needs to to global financial and social instabilities. be done, most models do not seem to include the human growth factor in the picture. Let’s say that average world Since the industrial revolution, human activities environmental footprint (energy use, waste generation, food have kept on adding tremendous pressures on consumption…) reduces by 30% (very ambitious) by 2050 Earth ecosystems. While Earth ecosystems have through advances in technology innovations. By that time certain abilities to buffer these pressures (e.g. the world population would have grown by at least 2 billion. capacity of oceans to absorb carbon dioxide), The environmental pressures and energy demand as a direct these ecosystems have been slowly taking on the result of this 2 billion person increase will most likely far accumulating pressures and are now reaching exceed the impacts saved through this improvement. At the saturation. When ecosystems are no longer able end of the day despite significant improvement in reducing to take on the pressures, they become unstable our current impacts (based on current population), and and collapse. The consequences will be unless some nations set targets for controlling population increasingly frequent and severe environmental growth, the overall human footprint will continue increasing catastrophes. Despite the fact that all these very significantly as a sole consequence of global population challenges differ in their impacts, they are all growth. interrelated and all come from the same source. The main environmental challenges that We must not forget that while the global world population is humankind will have to face this century mostly rapidly increasing, globalisation is also taking its toll. With arise (concurrently with globalisation and the growing middle classes and millions of people coming out of industrial revolution) from human overpoverty (which is a good thing from a social point of view) population, which is significantly increasing the demand for resources and energy is growing pressures on natural systems much beyond their exponentially. However, concurrently the supplies are adaptation capabilities. dwindling. Furthermore to complicate things, global overpopulation is not a uniform problem. While some In order to achieve our goals of countries (mostly developed nations) are facing population sustainability both global demography control decrease, others (mostly developing nations) are and reductions of environmental pressures overwhelmed by overpopulation. It is also a fact that most through sustainable development will have to be overpopulation occurs in countries that are least able to achieved. cope with managing such pressures and which will be most Siloso Beach Resort Corporate Sustainability Report 2012 50 vulnerable to social risks. Overall, the world Siloso Beach Resort population is rapidly increasing to alarming numbers. The United Nations is becoming Blending Life and Leisure with Nature SBR Opinion increasingly concerned about this trend and world security issues that it implies. It is a fact often taken out of the picture or very softly considered. In we cannot ignore that a global rise in world the end most construction projects going on today still have population throughout the century will a very significant impact on the environment not only significantly worsen the already high through the resources used in the construction process and pressures put on our environment. retrofitting, but also in the very long term through the daily operations of the buildings (electricity, water, waste…). In order to be sustained, we have no choice but to change our practices and development A new wave of buildings referred to as “living buildings” models. The only way to peacefully control have only just started to surface. The concept is to produce global population growth is through more buildings that give more back to the environment in terms of effective international and nation-wide family ecosystem services then they actually take (e.g. buildings planning. However, it also appears most that clean and filter rainwater, produce more energy than nations would rather avoid demography they need…and redistribute these services to the grid). issues, which are considered taboo because These are really development models that are getting closer the solution has become another to the real concept of sustainability and that we should inconvenient truth. implement and spread on a large scale now in working towards a more sustainable society. Sustainable development, still a long way to go The role of businesses in reducing environmental The concept of sustainable development was pressures first suggested during the Brundtland Commission. This concept is largely There are many steps that corporations must adopt to misunderstood and wrongly used around the achieve a sustainable business model: world. What it states is that any development activity should take equally into consideration Educate their staff on environmental issues: The culture of environmental, social and economic achieving environmental change within a business entity attributes and that current development cannot be confined to the head management level. On the should not deprive future generations. contrary, it must become part of the corporate culture and However, in most instances, the sustainable practices be implemented at all levels of environmental aspects of such development operations. model are neglected. Sadly but true, current development is economically driven and is Outreach to society through CSR environmental sometimes also equitable, but is rarely initiatives: Corporates have a responsibility towards society. sustainable. Significant changes can be achieved by driving best environmental practices outside of the corporate circle and We still have a long way to go for supporting initiatives which intend to reduce environmental development models to become truly impacts or educate on these issues. sustainable. However, we tend to forget that any development model that does not include Provide sustainable products and services: In a changing significant environmental considerations is economy, the future will rely on sustainable products and not sustainable. Still too often the concept of services. Companies who ignore this shift will end up being sustainable development is used without left behind. really understanding its meaning and implications. Support, invest or donate in environmental projects and initiatives: Even if a corporation does not provide For instance a lot of efforts have been made sustainable products and services yet, they can still play a in the construction sector to try to reduce the significant role by supporting other organisations that are environmental load within this sector. doing so. A good example is the Census of Marine Life which However, when we analyse the situation, for the past 10 years has been monitoring life in the oceans most of the emphasis has been put on in order to improve our knowledge. This initiative of global reducing buildings’ energy use (post proportion was entirely privately funded. construction) while the construction materials and the overall impacts of buildings throughout their life cycles, including the The planet already host 7 billion people, resources required to make them, are most the thought of reaching at least 9 billion by half century is concerning… Siloso Beach Resort Corporate Sustainability Report 2012 51 Reduce their environmental footprint Siloso Beach Resort (Energy/water/waste management): Being an environmentally responsible and Blending Life and Leisure with Nature SBR Opinion sustainable company does not simply mean to reduce energy consumption, but to look at At the end of the day we must not forget that preserving the how environmental impacts can be reduced environment is not about saving the Earth but is all about at all levels of operations and across all saving ourselves. The planet will still be there for a very long sectors. time, and its environment will recover (to some extent) in our absence over time. It is all about not wanting ourselves Corporations must keep in mind that there is and our children to live in an unhealthy and unpleasant a business case of adopting sustainable environment that has greatly suffered from the impacts of practices. Not only will this help to reduce our our presence. global environmental footprint but it makes increasingly good business sense to go this Article by Sylvain Richer de Forges way in terms of savings that can be achieved (energy, water, emissions…). It appears clear that the only way governments will be able to have some element of control on corporate impacts and to meet their national targets will be to increasingly control and monitor these impacts through a taxation system. Businesses that start to adapt now will benefit and put themselves in a leading position in the years to come. A case for thought While we are increasingly faced with these four main environmental concerns (Climate change, biodiversity losses, depletion of fresh water resources and pollution), perhaps we should take a look back in time and learn from the experience. In the 1970’s human kind was already faced with a major environmental issue of global proportion: The depletion of the ozone layer. However, “ through international collaboration we have managed to identify and slow down the trend to acceptable levels by regulating and banning the use of certain chemicals. We must learn from this experience and apply the same principle to the new threats before it is too late. However we must not omit demography issues from the picture. Otherwise in the end our efforts in developing a more sustainable society will not result in overall environmental pressures ” reduction. “ ” Siloso Beach Resort Corporate Sustainability Report 2012 52 Organizational Profile 2.7 Markets served (including geographic Siloso Beach Resort breakdown, sectors served, and types of Blending Life and Leisure with Nature customers/ beneficiaries) SBR accommodates guests from all around the world. As a hotel business, anyone willing to stay at SBR is welcomed to do so and SBR does not apply any discrimination of any kind on the origin of its guests. Sector served: SBR serves clients from all types of sectors (no discriminations) Types of customers: SBR serves all types of customers (no discriminations) ’ Business and markets: SBR categorises its market into 3 categories: National: Singapore Local: South East Asia International: the rest of the world Siloso Beach Resort Corporate Sustainability Report 2012 53 Organizational Profile Reservation modes Siloso Beach Resort Blending Life and Leisure with Nature At SBR , the guests bookings originate from four main forms: SBR has had to date a soft marketing campaign policy. Indeed, marketing outreach has never been very aggressive at SBR in a sense that the hotel has relied a lot on mouth to mouth awareness of its facilities and services rather than active promotion through brochures and other means. For a long time, SBR has remained a “hidden secret”. Many locals who have come to the resort have been surprised that they did not hear about the place before through advertising. One of the reasons behind this lies in the philosophical concepts behind SBR that self awareness is always favored over active and often excessive marketing. It appears to SBR that letting the guests judge for themselves and communicating on what they have experienced to Mouth to mouth awareness others is a more sincere way of spreading the word on the resort. is a preferred marketing It is only in recent years that awareness on the resort has spread mean at SBR including through its unique environmental and sustainability initiatives which have attracted a lot of visibility and public interest both in Singapore and beyond. Siloso Beach Resort Corporate Sustainability Report 2012 54 2.8 Scale of the reporting organization Organizational Profile Siloso Beach Resort 2010: audited Blending Life and Leisure with Nature 2011: unaudited Number of employees: SBR is a reasonably scaled hotel with a staff of 50-100. Total assets: Number of operations: 1 single operation •2010: 35,480,305.00 on Sentosa •2011: 33,655,520.00 Net sales: Beneficial ownership: •2010: 11,009,265.00 •Ng Swee Hua •2011: 13,005,658.00 •Ng Yu Teck Total capitalization: Sales/revenues by region: 100% from Sentosa site in Singapore •2010: 7,892,356.00 •2011: 10,795,185.00 Costs: (Cost is exclusive of depreciation) Quantity of services provided: •2010: 7,444,218.00 (depression 2010: 661,465.00) •2011: 8,387,625.00 (depression 2011: 8,387,625.00) 3 main services: Room accommodation, meetings/events facilities, and food and beverage. Sub-categories: Breakfast, Café, laundry, room charges, room services, romantic packages, tel/fax, internet access, Shuttle services, pool bar. “ ’ ” Siloso Beach Resort Corporate Sustainability Report 2012 55 Organizational Profile Siloso Beach Resort Blending Life and Leisure with Nature Employees breakdown Cultural diversity and origin is one of the strengths of SBR. This is reflected in the staff which comprises a multitude of nationalities. Breakdown Breakdown of employees of employees country by country of of origin origin Locals Philippines France USA Thailand Malaysia Myanmar China Taiwan India Vietnam “ SBR takes a lot of pride in diversifying it’s workforce. A diversification of the origin of its workforce means diversity in ’ ” cultures and languages, but also brings an international atmosphere to the resort. Siloso Beach Resort Corporate Sustainability Report 2012 56 Organizational Profile 2.9 Significant changes during the Siloso Beach Resort reporting period regarding size, structure, Blending Life and Leisure with Nature or ownership There have not been any changes in the capital 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period structure since the start of operations. recipient of various Siloso Beach Resort is the Development phases: There have been two main phases of development of the facilities: prestigious awards and certifications which it has received in recognition of efforts to reduce its impact •Principal hotel wing (standard rooms, deluxe rooms on the environment, foster a company-wide culture of and roof top suites) environmental awareness, and give back to society and •Villas wing nature through educational tours and CSR projects. Renovation work: Main guest rooms: SBR is currently in a renovation phase which involves all the guest rooms. Renovation involves new room design and upgrade. Villa wing: SBR is currently modifying its villas to accommodate more family oriented guests. General works: Small upgrades (e.g. new staircases/corridors, new floor mats…) are taking These awards and certifications are an important way to place throughout the resort. communicate to the stakeholders the sincerity of the commitment to preserving the environment. Through these achievements, we hope to set the environmental benchmark higher for the tourism industry in Singapore and South East Asia. Below is a summary of SBR’s latest awards: •Singapore Environment Achievement Awards (top achiever 2010) The Singapore Environment Achievement Award (SEAA) has been developed to inspire Singapore-based organisations to become more committed to environmental and social responsibilities. As the only local award that addresses overall environmental initiatives and awareness within an organisation, the SEAA is one of the most prestigious environmental award in Singapore. The criterion for the SEAA focus on assessing the leadership displayed by the company, the real environmental improvement made as well as the ability of an organisation to establish procedures, train staff and innovate in order to achieve breakthroughs in environmental performance. Siloso Beach Resort achieved recognition for its commitment to sustainability and ecological preservation and was awarded the SEAA Top Achiever Award for 2010. Since the SEAA was started in 1997, this is the first time that the award has been given to a hotel. Siloso Beach Resort Corporate Sustainability Report 2012 57 Organizational Profile •Singapore Sustainability Award (top achiever Siloso Beach Resort 2011) Blending Life and Leisure with Nature The scope of TUV Rheinland’s audit was comprehensive of all hotel operations including front office, reservations, housekeeping, food and beverage, sales and marketing, accounting, engineering and maintenance, human “The Singapore Sustainability Awards recognises resources, safety and security, and others). and showcases the most innovative and impactful sustainable business practices and green solutions During the certification audit, the hotel provided evidence amongst Corporates in Singapore. The awards aim of having implemented on environmental management to promote sustainability excellence and sharing of system meeting the requirements specified in the best practices amongst our Singapore organizations respective “Audit Checklist” that allow the awarding of the across businesses and companies, government “Eco-Hotel” certification. agencies and academic institutions so that more organizations will be inspired to adopt similar •First Eco-certified hotel in Singapore from the Singapore practices or develop their own” Environment Council www.sustainabilityawards.sg In 2011, a total of 68 companies submitted for the awards, with 9 winners chosen among the various categories, with SBR being the only Top Honour Winner in its category. Working with the Singapore Environment Council, we were Although SBR has achieved other awards, this one is the pilot hotel for this Singapore-based Eco Hotel the first to take all 3 aspects of sustainability into certification scheme. We hope that by having this equal consideration: economic, social, and certification in place, other hotels in Singapore will be environmental. encouraged to adopt more environmentally friendly practices. •First Eco-certified hotel in South East Asia from TUV Rheinland Singapore Environment Council is an independently managed, non-profit, non-governmental organisation, and institution of public character that nurtures, facilitates and co-ordinates environmental causes in Singapore. SEC reaches out to the public through its educational community and industrial arms. TUV Rheinland performed a certification audit at •Special mention from Singapore CSR Compact Siloso Beach Resort with the objective to determine, whether the implemented environmental management system meets the requirements for obtaining the TUV Rheinland’s “Eco-Hotel” certification program. The certification requirements also encompassed ISO 14000 criteria for an environmental management system. At the 1st Singapore Compact CSR Awards, held during the international Singapore Compact CSR Summit, we received The audit was based on the following: the Special mention Award for our strong commitment to Audit self-assessment checklist Documentation of the environment and corporate social responsibility. The the Environmental management system Records award and summit are organized by the Singapore Compact read during the audit (e.g. water, energy for CSR, which “functions as a national society in furthering consumption) Interviews with management and the CSR movement in Singapore, through on-going employees Observations done during the audit and dialogues, training, collaboration and practical project recorded with photos implementation. In the last 3 years only, SBR has been awarded 5 major awards & certifications for its sustainability efforts… Siloso Beach Resort Corporate Sustainability Report 2012 58 Report Parameters Siloso Beach Resort Report Parameters REPORT PROFILE Blending Life and Leisure with Nature 3.1 Reporting period SBR sustainability committee comprises executives and This report covers information for the period managers of various departments and meets at least two times a year to review achievements, assess progress and 2011-2012. set new targets for continuous improvement in our sustainability journey. However, many of the data collected covers a longer time period, often since the very conception of the hotel more than 9 years ago. It is important SBR Environmental committee members: in order to capture the level of achievements at SBR that the report portrays not only some data for the Designation of sustainability committee last two years but also puts this into context of the members greater picture since the construction days. Executive Director Sustainability Director One can only appreciate the efforts and Senior CSR Executive achievements in the pursuit of sustainability when F&B Manager gaining an understanding of the history of this sustainability journey at SBR. Housekeeping Supervisor Front Office Manager It is a journey that SBR has embarked on, not Sales & Reservations Manager punctual achievements. SBR prefers the term of Finance Executive journey as becoming a more sustainable company HR executive is something that requires constant efforts and Quality Service Supervisor adjustments. Business Development Manager 3.2 Date of most recent previous report This sustainability report is SBR’s first which will mark the beginning of a series of such reports. REPORT SCOPE AND BOUNDARY 3.3 Reporting cycle 3.5 Process for defining report content SBR sustainability reports will be re-edited to This report is written using the GRI 3.1 guidelines. include up to date information on a yearly Materiality: This report covers all indicators highlighted in basis. GRI 3.1 guidelines. SBR wishes through this report to be fully transparent in reporting the information which SBR is willing to publicly share in the hope that it may inspire 3.4 Contact point for questions regarding other organisations in the hospitality field or others. the report or its contents. Focus area: As an eco-resort, the environment topic is Primary contacts regarding this report: important to us and therefore we have chosen to give it a Report lead and principal author: particular attention. The Story of SBR is unique Sylvain Richer de Forges, Sustainability Director especially with regards to the initiatives which have been sylvain@silosobeachresort.com taken to preserve the environment on site and to spread awareness on environmental issues. Executive Director: Kelvin Ng kelvin@silosobeachresort.com However, as we adopt an integrated sustainable business concept we also take into consideration economic and Senior CSR Executive: Karl Fischer social aspects which are also reported. csr@silosobeachresort.com Stakeholders: This report is targeted at all our Additional contacts: This report was approved and stakeholders. A list of stakeholders is given in section voted by SBR sustainability committee. 4.14 Siloso Beach Resort Corporate Sustainability Report 2012 59 Siloso Beach Resort Our unique “jungle feel” Report Parameters Blending Life and Leisure with Nature One of our villa wing paths Many areas of our resort offer a natural immersive environment Siloso Beach Resort Corporate Sustainability Report 2012 60 Siloso Beach Resort Report Parameters 3.6 Boundary of the report Blending Life and Leisure with Nature As a single site operated business, boundaries of the report are clearly defined: 3.10 Explanation of the effect of any reThe Report covers single operations of statements of information provided in earlier reports, and the reasons for such re-statement Siloso Beach Resort in Sentosa Island. As this is SBR’s first sustainability report, there are no 3.7 Specific limitations on the scope or boundary of the report re-statements. This report intends to cover all areas of 3.11 Significant changes from previous reporting environment, social and economic aspects of the periods in the scope, boundary, or measurement organisation and to report on all key indicators methods applied in the report. according to the guidelines of GRI 3.1. There are no specific limitations. As this is the first sustainability report, there are no 3.8 Basis for reporting on joint ventures, changes from previous reporting periods. subsidiaries, leased facilities, outsourced operations, and other entities that can GRI CONTENT INDEX significantly affect comparability from period to period and/or between 3.12 Table identifying the location of the organizations. Standard Disclosures in the report Category/sections Location SBR is not involved in joint ventures nor does it have any other subsidiaries. Strategy and Analysis 1.1P 10-34 Outsource operations are mentioned throughout 1.2 the report and are considered part of our Organizational Profile 2.1P 37-57 sustainability efforts (i.e. Siloso Beach Resort is 2.10 selective with regards to its outsourced operation/contactors with a consideration for sustainability practices). Report Parameters 3.1P 58-40 3.13 3.9 Data measurement techniques and the bases of calculations, including Governance, commitments P 64-89 assumptions and techniques underlying and engagements 4.1-4.17 estimations applied to the compilation of the Indicators and other information in Disclosure of Management Refer to GRI Content Index the report. Approach, per category P 176 – 181 The data is collected and reported according to the Core performance Refer to GRI Content Index guidelines of the GRI indicator protocol indicators P 176 – 181 •Collection: Data for key reporting indicators are collected by various departments on a regular basis. Each department managers have been assign to Any GRI Additional Refer to GRI Content Index supervise the data collection efforts according to Indicators that were P 176 – 181 strict guidelines given to them by the management included and in line with GRI. Any GRI supplement Refer to GRI Content Index •Compilation: Most of the data is compiled monthly indicators included in the P 176 – 181 through department inputs and then summarized report on an annual basis to observe annual trends. Siloso Beach Resort Corporate Sustainability Report 2012 61 Siloso Beach Resort Report Parameters ASSURANCE Blending Life and Leisure with Nature 3.13 Policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance for the report. The below table provides a list of some third party verifications (there are many others): The validity of the information provided in this report is subject to stringent review both internally Verifying Aspect verified Documental evidence and externally. Third Party •Internally: This report has been reviewed by our Singapore Environmental Certificate: Singapore sustainability committee. Data collection from Environment achievements Environment Achievement various departments follows company guidelines Council Awards (Top achiever) and internal quality control procedures. Singapore Sustainability Certificate: Singapore •Externally: SBR sustainability statements are Business achievements Sustainability Award (Top publicly available and have been subjected to Federation (social, honour) review by a number of stakeholders including Environment awards and certifications provided by third party and economical) organisations: As part of the process of obtaining our numerous awards and TUV SUD Risk assessment: Certificate of Audit by TUV “bizSAFE level 3 SUD certifications (e.g Singapore Environment certified” Achievement Award, Singapore Sustainability Award, Singapore Compact Merit Award for CSR, Government Financial Audit report Eco Hotel certifications from TUV Rheinland and the accredited statements Singapore Environment Council), the statements auditor provided in this report have been extensively Singapore Green initiatives Certificate: SEC Eco Hotel reviewed, analyzed and verified by these Environment and operations certification (first to be parties in much more depth than just a simple third Council certified in Singapore) party verification assessment (e.g.: water/energy audits). TUV Green initiatives Certified eco hotel (first to Rheinland and operations be certified in South East Through the detailed internal and external Asia) verifications, SBR has no doubts of the accuracy of the information hereby provided in this report :“ ” Siloso Beach Resort Corporate Sustainability Report 2012 62 Case study : the fear of a Siloso Beach Resort Blending Life and Leisure with Nature sustainable path 2 “ 1 “ ” ” 3 “ ” “ 4 ” 5 “ ..It is easier to start by ” climbing a hill! You do not climb to the top of a high mountain straight away.. Climbing Corporate sustainability ..It is easier to adopt a progressive approach progressing step by step You do not become a towards this goal. sustainable business straight away.. Siloso Beach Resort Corporate Sustainability Report 2012 63 GOVERNANCE Siloso Beach Resort Blending Life and Leisure with Nature Governance 4.1 Governance structure of the organization 4.2 Chair of the highest governance body Senior Management: The chairman, Mr Ng Swee Hwa, is also an executive officer in the organisation. Siloso Beach Resort is a family owned and operated business. Senior management (responsible for Highest authority in the organisation is by the owner executive decisions ) comprises of family himself which is also an executive officer in the members: organisation. •Mr Ng Swee Hwa: Chairman/Owner The reason for this arrangement is that SBR was built from •Mr Kelvin Ng: Executive director /Owner the very beginning with direct guidance from the owner to •Ms Felicia Ng: Sales and Reservations Manager make SBR a very unique hotel with a strong commitment to sustainability and environmental preservation. As a small family run organization, the number of company executives is limited and comprises of a As outsourcing an environmentally conscious management majority of male representatives. Ratio 2:1 is proven very difficult and rare to find, It was crucial in order to pursue in achieving this goal that the owner and Senior advising group is comprised of a family members remained actively involved in the sustainability committee. Decisions of management of SBR. the committee have influence on family members decisions. 4.3 Unitary board structure The sustainability committee, responsible for SBR is a family owned and managed resort hotel. SBR analysing key executive decisions in the organisation however has a breakdown of does not have a unitary board structure. male/females. Below is the ratio. 4.4 Mechanisms for shareholders and employees The sustainability committee is comprised of to provide recommendations or direction to the 12 members of which 7 man and 5 women: highest governance body Shareholders engagement: Female SBR has various mechanisms in place to collect feedbacks from its stakeholders which includes service providers, Male suppliers and hotel guests. Hotel guests are able to provide feedback through various means which includes : •pre established feedback forms available in every room and which are then collected by the staff during room cleaning; •by approaching one of the staff directly who will then A detailed composition of the sustainability report to their department managers; committee is given at section 3.4 •through websites: The resort’s website provides various sections especially designed to collect feedbacks as well as through third party sites such as Tripadvisor which allows travelers to comment on their stay. SBR regularly scans these sites in order to collect feedback and take corrective action if necessary. Siloso Beach Resort Corporate Sustainability Report 2012 64 Siloso Beach Resort Blending Life and Leisure with Nature Governance Employees feedbacks: SBR has a well-established process for collecting feedbacks from its employees. In order to do this, regular meetings are organized at two levels: Intra-department meetings: Managers of the different departments meet with their respective staffs to collect feedback. Feedback is then transmitted to the sustainability committee Inter-department meetings: These meetings involve departments managers with general management. Several committees have been established for this purpose: -SBR sustainability committee SBR has open policies with regards to -SBR safety and risk management committee collecting feedbacks from its employees -SBR Annual review committee A feedback collection box is another mechanisms for employees General feedback collection to provide feedback mechanism anonymously should they not wish to interact with the management directly. Incoming feedback Every feedback is taken seriously and analyzed by the management which will SBR Feedback then decide of an First analysis (manager level) collection box appropriate action “ Significant Insignificant ” Sustainability Committee Action recommended Action denied Action denied Executive Corrective Action Director approved Siloso Beach Resort Corporate Sustainability Report 2012 65 4.5 Linkage between compensation for Siloso Beach Resort members of the highest governance body, Blending Life and Leisure with Nature Governance senior managers, and executives Linkage between compensations Every employee of the company is subject to employees rules and regulations which include employees rights. These rules are highlighted in the Level Compensation employment contract and agreed between the employee and the employer at the time of Highest Highest governance is the owner of the employment. governance company. Compensation is not fixed but proportional to company profit as per These include (but are not limited to): shareholders stakes -Number of paid leave and holidays Manager Higher base pay than executive and -Fixed salary and bonuses options More annual leave entitlement Performance bonuses •Compensation: SBR has flexible compensation options for various levels of management which are Executive Monthly pay package customized based on experience and qualifications. Annual two leaves entitled Performance bonuses •Departure arrangements: These are the same for all employees and are subject to one month notice. Others Monthly pay package Other departure arrangements may occur and Rank and Allowance arrangements are made on a case to case basis. File Performance bonuses Part timers Hourly rated 4.6 Processes in place for the highest Allowance governance body to ensure conflicts of interest are avoided. As part of our compensation all full time employees benefit from healthcare options SBR Chairman As a small organization, should conflicts of interest occur between members of the highest governance body (ED and sustainability committee), Executive decision the chairman of the organization which has the highest authority makes the settling decisions. Conflict of interest Sustainability Executive Director Committee members Siloso Beach Resort Corporate Sustainability Report 2012 66 Siloso Beach Resort Blending Life and Leisure with Nature Governance 4.7 Process for determining the composition, qualifications, and expertise of the members of the highest governance body and its committees, including any consideration of gender and other indicators of diversity. SBR has a process in place in order to assign members of its various governance boards: Governance boards are comprised of advisory committees of which: •The sustainability committee •The risk management committee •The general review committee New committee members are appointed for a period of 2 years after which their relevance on the board is reassessed. Diversity: SBR does not conduct discrimination of gender when appointing new members. Efforts are made to aim towards an equilibrium between number of man and women in the committees. 4.8 Internally developed statements of mission, values, codes of conduct, and principles relevant to economic, environmental, and social performance and the status of their implementation. SBR a well-established has code of conduct which covers principles relevant to economic, social and environmental attributes. These guidelines are compulsory and applied throughout the departments.. General orientation, covers: safety, environment training , work ethics, corporate values Siloso Beach Resort Corporate Sustainability Report 2012 67 Siloso Beach Resort Blending Life and Leisure with Nature Governance 4.9 Procedures of the highest governance body for overseeing the organization’s identification and management of economic, environmental, and social performance, including relevant risks and opportunities, and adherence or compliance with internationally agreed standards, codes of conduct, and principles. A number of indicators have been put in place in order to regularly assess the performance of the organisation with regards to economics, environment and social aspects. 4.10 Processes for evaluating the highest governance body’s own performance, particularly with respect to economic, environmental, and social performance. During meetings, the performance of existing targets and objectives are reviewed. Each department managers will then give the results of the performance of previous fixed targets in the environment, social and economic fields. If targets have not been achieved, an investigation is launched to determine the reason and to fix a new target. Department managers Siloso Beach Resort Corporate Sustainability Report 2012 68 Siloso Beach Resort COMMITMENTS TO EXTERNAL INITIATIVES Blending Life and Leisure with Nature Governance 4.11 Explanation of whether and how the precautionary approach or principle is addressed by the organization SBR has put into place stringent codes of conduct when it comes to adopting a precautionary approach at all levels of its operations. The SBR sustainability committee plays a crucial role in the company applying the precautionary principal at all levels of operations and systematically. The below diagram highlights the procedure: Recently SBR has undergone a risk management training and application in which external auditors have conducted a risk assessment audit. Following recommendations from the auditors, numerous changes have been made to manage risks in a most effective and ethical way. “ “ ” ” Siloso Beach Resort Corporate Sustainability Report 2012 69 4.12 Externally developed economic, environmental, and social charters, Siloso Beach Resort principles, or other initiatives to which Blending Life and Leisure with Nature Governance the organization subscribes or endorses. SBR adheres to a range of externally developed Below are some of the guidelines: charters and principles. While some of them are government regulations, many are voluntary Standard Where Date of Stakeholders Type initiatives by SBR to follow these standards and applied adoption often even exceed them. UN Global SBR Feb 2012 MultiBinding While SBR implements many of its own regulations Compact stakeholders and principles, it is important to base these principles and adhere to a range of internationally Risk SBR Jan 2012 Multi bizSAFE agreed standards. management level 3 Fire safety SBR since Multi Legally Adopting a range of externally developed standards 2006 binding also reinforces SBR’s management policies and F&B/ food SBR since NEA Legally insures that the company has a strong backbone hygiene 2006 binding and set of standard operation procedures (SOP’s) in Eco Hotel SBR Jan 2011 Multi Voluntary place. Guidelines/TUV Rheinland Eco Hotel SBR Nov 2010 Multi voluntary guidelines/SEC Singapore SBR Since Multi Legally Construction construct binding codes ion “ “ ” ” Siloso Beach Resort Corporate Sustainability Report 2012 70 4.13 Memberships in associations Siloso Beach Resort SBR is associated with a range of stakeholder Blending Life and Leisure with Nature Governance organizations. While some are related to the hotel business many have been established through the sustainability programs and CSR outreach. Association comment UN Global Compact The United Nations global CSR initiative is SBR believes that being a member of these the world's largest CSR initiative that aims associations extends its sphere of influence and in to drive more sustainable practices in many instances allows it to play its corporate businesses throughout the world. Since 2012, SBR is a member. citizen role. eco-business.com Asia-Pacific’s largest environmental Association comment business community. As a member and an Sembawang The Greenwave is a major drive for approved client, SBR submits regular Shipyard, sustainable innovations in environmental related articles to this Greenwave Singapore. It provides an platform . initiatives opportunity for students of all levels Singapore SBR is actively supporting the work of SEC to showcase their best applied Environment through sponsorships or direct research projects and concepts that Council involvements. could drive a real change in making TUV Rheinland SBR is the first hotel to become certified in Singapore a more sustainable SEA under TUV Rheinlands’s eco hotel society. Selected projects gain scheme. In addition SBR is very close to their endorsement and financial support activities by supporting their work and to reach the market and be processes . implemented into society. Singapore Nature As a member SBR regularly attends events Society organized by this organization. It also has For more information about the sponsored some of their initiatives. Greenwave initiative: City Development For young CSR Leaders awards competition http://www.sembship.com/greenw Limited as participating SME. ave/about.asp National Learning Journey partner for PS21 Excel Environment Convention 2010. SBR is the first learning Since 2010, SBR has a presence on Agency journey partner from the private sector . the judging committee. St Andrew’s Autism SBR actively supports the integration of Ministry of the SBR meets a few times a year with Centre people in need through its partnership with Environment members of the ministry to network the organization. Youth and share best sustainability Environmental practices and involvement of the Engagement youth community in Singapore. Sentosa Island Sentosa Island regularly organises Partner meetings between its island partners and often by inviting third party organisations to discuss about future and potential development plans of the island. Singapore A primary point of contact for CSR Compact for related events and support in CSR Singapore. As a member, SBR is regularly involved in seminars and meetings organized by this organization. SBR has also sponsored some of these events. Through its various memberships, SBR significantly expands its sphere of influence Siloso Beach Resort Corporate Sustainability Report 2012 71 Association comment Siloso Beach Resort Blending Life and Leisure with Nature Governance Make a wish SBR regularly donates to this Foundation foundation which aims to give children with life threatening illness an opportunity to realize a SBR is active in engaging wish with Stakeholders through National University Member, Raffles Museum. SBR memberships and active of Singapore financially supports many causes of the museum contributions. While many Singapore Business Member as a corporate but also partnerships are already Federation as a participant in their sustainability forums established, SBR constantly seeks new engagements MCYS (ministry of Member. Facilitating community and employment to the youths opportunities…interested? youth) Open Door Fun Member. Facilitating recruitment (recruiting disable for the disabled and the senior and senior persons) persons and many others… In the past 3 years alone, SBR has established numerous partnerships with various stakeholders in very different fields from environmental and social NGO’s to government organization and the private sector. So far for SBR, joining an organization through membership has usually resulted in other means of collaboration going beyond the simple membership (e.g. organizing mutual events, sponsorship of events, working on mutual programs…) “ ” Siloso Beach Resort Corporate Sustainability Report 2012 72 STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT Siloso Beach Resort The following Disclosure Items refer to general Blending Life and Leisure with Nature stakeholder engagement conducted by the Governance organization over the course of the reporting period Organization Program partner 4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization. www.eco-business.com : SBR eco articles Our stakeholders include all the various partners with whom we work with on the various programs Origin exterminators. that we have. Sustainable solution to mosquito control Main programs supporting organizations SBR has developed a number of high level outreach Singapore compact for CSR programs. Some of these programs have gained CSR. Various events a lot of support from leading organisations in their respective fields. Below is a selection of latest Singapore Polytechnic engagements with stakeholders. SBR Eco Tours/internships University of Nevada Las Organization Program partner Vegas. SBR Eco Tours World Wildlife Fund: SBR Biodiversity Portal …And many others… Conservation international: SBR Biodiversity Portal Tropical marine Science Institute: SBR Biodiversity Portal Raffles Museum of Biodiversity Research : SBR Biodiversity Portal Census of Marine Life: SBR Biodiversity Portal The Singapore Institute of Other stakeholders comprise the following Biology : SBR Biodiversity Portal Singapore Environment Council: Stakeholders Comments SBR Biodiversity Portal Customers Guest staying at the hotel as well as passing Science Centre Singapore: SBR guests (e.g. F&B guests) Biodiversity Portal Civil Society SBR is very active in reaching out to society through its numerous CSR programs Employees SBR puts a lot of attention on its employees National University of and other and contract workers which play a very Singapore: SBR Biodiversity workers important role in the success of the business Portal Suppliers As an hotel environment, SBR works with United Nations Environmental numerous suppliers many of which are active Programme: SBR biodiversity in the sustainability field portal Siloso Beach Resort Corporate Sustainability Report 2012 73 SBR CSR initiatives Siloso Beach Resort Blending Life and Leisure with Nature Governance Eco Tours Green Sanctuary –This area is where our own gardening staff grow plants and herbs for use around the Resort. Landscape Pool – A unique swimming pool that is better for both people and the environment. Green Technology – Explains how the Resort uses technology to reduce energy and waste. Al Fresco Café – Learn about how we apply the 4Rs The eco tours have taken place for the last 3 (Respect, Reduce, Reuse, and Recycle) in our Café. years. The aim is to showcase and share the sustainability achievements at the hotel with Cost: The tour is free as part of our Corporate Social various stakeholders in order to inspire others to Responsibility program, in order to promote embark on the same path. This program has been compassion for the environment and our sustainable very successful and to date more than 3000 business model. However, there is a small fee to gain people from university students to fortune 100 entrance to Sentosa Island. companies top executives have attended the tours. Events sponsorships Purpose We use the resort and its environmental aspects as SBR regularly financially supports meaningful events. a case-study for the environmentally sustainable Below is a list of some of the latest events SBR has business model. The aim is to create awareness of financially supported: environmental issues and help to develop more compassion for the environment. • Singapore Compact for CSR 2012 Duration 1.5 to 2+ hours, followed by 15 minutes for Q&A. • Singapore G1 event: The G1 is a major event organised by the Singapore Environment Council aiming to Who promote more sustainable means of transportation The Eco Journey is mainly tailored towards company groups and tertiary students and above, • WWF seminar on Asian elephant conservation however we offer the tour to anyone who is interested in environmental sustainability. This • Singapore CSR Compact: “CSR learning journeyincludes stakeholders like in-house guests, partners, competitive advantages from responsible business and suppliers. strategies” The Program • Singapore Environment Council: “Sustainable Development: green from design to build to live in” The Eco Journey has 7 major “stations” or areas of interest all around the resort. • Singapore Environment Council Earth Day Volunteers 2011 -Introduction – Explains the purpose of the tour, the general eco-concept, and the guidelines for • Miss Earth Singapore 2010 constructing the resort. -Villa Wing – This area aims to showcase blending leisure with nature, with trees even incorporated And many other causes which we into the design of buildings. have financially supported Rooftop Terrace – A stunning view of the South China Sea, and below our 100m long selfmaintenance rooftop garden. Siloso Beach Resort Corporate Sustainability Report 2012 74 Siloso Beach Resort Blending Life and Leisure with Nature SBR Eco Tours, newly implemented logo • SBR Eco Tours were implemented less than 4 years ago. In such a short time, the tours have grown in popularity and have become one of the main means for SBR to showcase and share its sustainability initiatives with various stakeholders. • SBR intends over the next years to continue to grow and develop this program especially in providing more customized tours for various groups (e.g. universities, corporate, young children…) Siloso Beach Resort Corporate Sustainability Report 2012 75 SBR Eco Tours Siloso Beach Resort Blending Life and Leisure with Nature Every tour that we conduct is synonymous with the success of sharing a cause which is close to our heart. We have many success stories to tell about this program and continuously receive feedbacks on people and groups which found that they have really learnt something useful. We are continuously adjusting this project to improve even further overtime.. Siloso Beach Resort Corporate Sustainability Report 2012 76 SBR Biodiversity Portal Program Siloso Beach Resort Blending Life and Leisure with Nature Governance Recently, Siloso Beach Resort (SBR) has developed the Biodiversity Portal of Singapore, which it manages in collaboration with a range of institutions both in Singapore and internationally. The CSR project was developed during the International Year of Biodiversity in 2010 to raise awareness of the intensifying trend of the extinction of species on Earth. The portal was conceptualized and developed based on a book: “The Biodiversity of Life on Earth: from Heritage to Extinction”. More than merely a unique educational platform on biodiversity, the website was specifically designed to serve as a hub for individuals and organisations willing to learn and act on the subject both locally and internationally. The website has 3 main parts: Learn – For those looking to increase their knowledge about biodiversity, the book “The Biodiversity of Life on Earth: from Heritage to Extinction” provides a comprehensive overview of general knowledge and issues relevant to the loss of biodiversity. This book is created to be interesting Donations (with lots of pictures!) and readable by just about anyone, no matter what your knowledge of SBR regularly donates in order to support meaningful biodiversity. causes. Discover – There are various ways that you can One of the latest was a single donation of SGD expand your interest in biodiversity, be it through 500,000 to the National University of Singapore in order photos, videos, additional informational resources, to support the implementation of a real dinosaur scientific work, or finding out the places where you can see rich biodiversity. All these resources are exhibit within the upcoming new Natural History Museum provided here for you to tap into and discover. in Singapore. Act – Given the rapid loss of biodiversity hotspots around the world and the urgency of saving species As more “conventional” donations, SBR from extinction, taking action is of utmost regularly donates to sponsor causes such importance. We help link you to the conservation as seminars, social causes, events… projects that matter most to you. Please note that none of these donations are made through our site, but rather we simply provide links to credible conservation groups and projects. Siloso Beach Resort Corporate Sustainability Report 2012 77 Our Commitment to Biodiversity Siloso Beach Resort Blending Life and Leisure with Nature Conservation Governance SBR central court Many aspects of how the resort is built and overall dense vegetal coverage reflect our strong commitments of biodiversity conservation Siloso Beach Resort Corporate Sustainability Report 2012 78 SBR mascots program Siloso Beach Resort Blending Life and Leisure with Nature Governance SBR eco articles program Siloso Beach Resort has introduced a cartoon concept to promote key environmental One of SBR’s program is to actively participate and drive messages throughout its facilities. dialogues on key environmental issues. In order to do this, SBR regularly publishes articles on www.ecobusiness.com The idea is to make use of two created fictional which is Asia Pacific’s largest environmental business characters (Prof Monitor and Squirzy) in order to community. Through its contribution, SBR is an approved outreach to our guests in a fun and yet partner of eco business. effective way. List of articles recently published: While, numerous environmental educational messages are already present throughout the resort Title Content summary (e.g. Eco huts, TV channels…), we feel that the The power of human and The potential to generate power by cartoons will outreach more effectively to a wider recovered energies recovering wasted energies public including young children. Food security: asking the Thoughts on the real concerns of right questions the availability of food on the Concept: Our aim is to passively provide planet and sustainable solutions environmental information and to use our resort as Ozone: the forgotten The ozone crisis, the evolution of a showcase of sustainable best practices. We will threats recovery efforts and potential new always respect the choices of our guests to either coming threats ignore or take the time to appreciate the The value of water: a The state of water scarcity on the information that we make available. Our concept is lesson from arid areas planet and sustainable solutions to provide our guests the possibility to learn something new about the environmental issues Climate forcing and the The threat posed by feedback that we face and to reflect upon it, while having a threat of feedback mechanisms and sustainable good time at our resort. mechanisms climate remediation solutions Demystifying the concept How to build a sustainable Characters role: The principle behind the of sustainable construction construction project characters is simple: Prof Monitor plays the role of the knowledgeable source which we use to convey Renewing renewables A detailed analysis on energy accurate key messages. Squirzy (the squirrel), on supplies, trends and sustainable the other hand, is a more funny character which solutions serves the purpose of asking the right questions, Driving an innovation The biodiversity crisis and how we but sometimes in a humoristic way. revolution through could use biodiversity to our biomimetic advantage Characters choice: We chose a monitor lizard Can global sustainability be An analysis of issues posed by and a squirrel to act as our eco ambassadors achieved without demography and sustainable mascots for the simple reason that these two demographical solutions animals can been seen at our resort (mostly in the considerations café area) and they also represent our commitment Putting CSR and The role of corporates in to the preservation of wildlife and biodiversity on sustainability at the heart addressing environmental and our site. of a business social issues “ ” Siloso Beach Resort Corporate Sustainability Report 2012 79 SBR Environment Outreach Siloso Beach Resort Blending Life and Leisure with Nature (Mass media) Biodiversity Portal SBR Eco-business.com articles “Renewing Renewables” “Biomimetics” “Food security” “The power of human energy” “The global water crisis ” “Demography” … Press releases/blogs/student reports… SBR is regularly featured in press releases as well as students and companies reports to highlight its sustainable initiatives Siloso Beach Resort Corporate Sustainability Report 2012 80 Eco Panels Siloso Beach Resort Blending Life and Leisure with Nature Numerous: panels describing the resorts environmental initiatives are displayed throughout the hotel Eco Huts SBR Eco Huts: a total of 7 huts throughout the resort display extensive information messages each hut on one key environmental topic Biodiversity picture exhibit Our café biodiversity exhibit showcasing pictures of wildlife taken within the resort as well as general text on biodiversity Siloso Beach Resort Corporate Sustainability Report 2012 81 Sustainable farming Siloso Beach Resort Blending Life and Leisure with Nature Governance • SBR ECO games: SBR has developed its own environmentally oriented board games which it makes available to guests within public areas. SBR produces its own compost using an innovative vermicomposting system. The compost is then used as an organic fertilizer to grow vegetables on our Eco huts rooftop. Organic vegetables are then supplied to the F&B department. The aim is to provide chemical and pesticide free leafy vegetables for some of our dishes. The benefits are that because they are SBR has numerous huts on its site. Each hut has been grown on-site by our own staff, we can ensure they utilised to convey key environmental messages on are free of harmful chemicals. We are also lowering our environmental footprint: specific topics. Each hut deals with a particular environmental concern. 1.Carbon footprint is lower since there is no fuel involved in transporting the final product. There are 7 eco huts: 2.Water footprint is lower, since we use • The climate change hut our own spring water source that does not compete • The biodiversity hut with the public water supply. • The water hut • The sustainable development hut 3.Land footprint is lower, since it is located on • The resources hut our Resort, and using the concept of urban farming • The population hut to make the most out of limited space. • The pollution hut 4.Ecological footprint is lower, since there are no pesticides and no fertilizers running off into the Eco TV channels environment. 5.Food waste is recycled, as we use vermicomposing (worm) to produce top-quality 100% natural fertilizer for our soil, using the food SBR has dedicated two in-house TV channels to scraps from our F&B operations. environmental awareness. Eco leisure • One station showcases an environmental documentary •Sentosa nature trails: SBR actively promotes the • Another station showcases a 1.5 hour presentation use of nature walks and trails located behind its developed by SBR which explains the main resort. While many parts of Sentosa island have environmental concerns of the century. been sacrificed for development purposes, large areas of forested terrain still remain in the central “ part of the island. Numerous nature trails have been put into place for nature lovers to enjoy. •Singapore natural parks: SBR also promotes within its premises and marketing material eco tourism activities within Singapore which are ” largely unknown to travelers. Siloso Beach Resort Corporate Sustainability Report 2012 82 Our unique roof-top organic Siloso Beach Resort Blending Life and Leisure with Nature farming Governance “ “ ” ” Siloso Beach Resort Corporate Sustainability Report 2012 83 Siloso Beach Resort Blending Life and Leisure with Nature Actively Promoting Eco leisure activities SBR Eco Games Promoting Sentosa Island Eco Trails at the resort as well as Eco tourisms activities in Singapore in General (nature reserves…) to our guests: SBR has developed board games on the thematic on Climate Change and Biodiversity for its guests Eco trails in SBR’s backyard campaign Our website features a lot of information of our environmental initiatives as well as general environmental resources SBR eco page: Siloso Beach Resort Corporate Sustainability Report 2012 84 Siloso Beach Resort SBR Environment Mascots Blending Life and Leisure with Nature SBR mascots helps to convey key environmental messages throughout the resort in a fun way SBR in house Eco TV Channels SBR Eco Channels are available in all our 180+ guests rooms and are a very effective way to outreach on these issues to a broad audience transiting through the hotel Siloso Beach Resort Corporate Sustainability Report 2012 85 4.15 Basis for identification and selection of Siloso Beach Resort stakeholders with whom to engage. Blending Life and Leisure with Nature Governance As an eco-hotel, SBR takes particular care to select stakeholders which share its vision of sustainability. The below diagram highlights the systematic process by which SBR chooses its stakeholders: This selection is targeted at different levels with different levels of stringency: Stakeholders Comments Hotel Guest SBR primary target is to attract eco conscious travellers. In order to achieve this, SBR primarily advertises its services in eco travel platforms. However, SBR remains open to accept any type of guests to its facilities. Suppliers/service SBR takes great care in assessing every purchased product to be sustainable. In providers order to do this, particular care is taken to assess every purchased item and to identify potential alternatives which are less impactful on the environment. Program partners As most of SBR programs are into sustainability, SBR is very selective on organisations with whom it partners “ ’ “ ’ ” ” Siloso Beach Resort Corporate Sustainability Report 2012 86 4.16 Approaches to stakeholder engagement, including frequency of Siloso Beach Resort engagement by type and by stakeholder Blending Life and Leisure with Nature Governance group SBR has various approaches to engage with Community panels stakeholders: SBR sits on a number of community /discussion panels , of which some include: Surveys •Sembawang Shipyard, Green Wave Competition SBR is regularly approached by stakeholders who wish to undertake surveys. In recent years many •Ministry of the Environment and Water Resources. of these surveys have been targeted at third parties Corporate and education institutions engagement gaining a better understanding of SBR sustainability initiatives. •Sentosa Island partners discussion group Focus groups Written communications SBR is open to collaboration and partnership with all stakeholder groups. SBR engages with various stakeholders through written communications means. In the past years, SBR has gained strong stakeholder partnerships with groups as diverse as: •Reports on environmental initiatives •Sustainability and CSR programs •Government Organisation (e.g. Ministry of the •Articles/news environment, National Environment Agency…), •Marketing material NGO’s (e.g. Singapore Environment council, World •Audiovisual materials Wildlife Fund for Nature, Conservation •Eco tours International, Singapore Compact for CSR…) and many more… •Private Sector: SBR is regularly engaging with various private sector entities, from suppliers to manufacturers or service providers Frequency of engagement •Public Sector: SBR engages with many public sector organizations such as universities, schools, community services… Stakeholder group Frequency Hotel Guests Constantly Our 3 focus groups: Government Frequently. Mostly organizations through attendance of events and events sponsorship Private sector Constantly through our supply chain and various programs (e.g. eco tours) NGO’s Frequently. Mostly through our CSR programs (e.g. biodiversity portal) and events sponsorships Siloso Beach Resort Corporate Sustainability Report 2012 87 Siloso Beach Resort On site engagement Blending Life and Leisure with Nature Governance SBR has a range of programs aiming to engage stakeholders on its site: Stakeholder engagement Description Environmental Channels Two channels in the Resort are dedicated to providing environmental information, and are available in all guest rooms and in common areas. Eco-Huts Various huts (7 in total) around the resort contain environmental messages. It is a passive learning concept, where information is made available in a very relaxing environment. SBR Mascots In an effort to make their environmental messages more fun and appealing to kids, SBR has created two mascots. Self-Guided Eco Journey For those guests who wish to know more about the Resort, there are selfguided Eco Journey panels placed throughout the resort. These panels provide key facts and figures about the hotel environmental achievements which are elaborated in much more depth in the guided eco tour Eco Corner Located just outside SBR’s reception, it is a starting point for guests to learn about the environmental activities of the Resort. Most importantly, the area hosts a large map of the resort, pointing out the environmental messages and highlights. Guest Conservation Messages Messages to guests about conservation of resources are present at SBR’s Reception, and in the rooms which have “10 tips to have a greener stay” Café Biodiversity Exhibit SBR’s Café features large pictures of biodiversity taken around the Resort. On the side of each picture information about the species, and a message about nature conservation are present. Real Dinosaur Bones Display In collaboration with NUS, SBR is displaying real diplodocus vertebrae bones. Eco Leisure A Climate change themed board game is available for guests to play. Through playing the game, they are made aware of some of the most important consequences of climate change. “ ’ and many more… ’ “ ” ” Siloso Beach Resort Corporate Sustainability Report 2012 88 4.17 Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder Siloso Beach Resort engagement, and how the organization Blending Life and Leisure with Nature Governance has responded to those key topics and concerns “ Guests: misunderstanding of the concept to preserve much wildlife on site including monitor lizards and insects. SBR response: As an Eco Hotel, SBR has a strong commitment to preserve biodiversity on site. As such it made significant efforts to minimize the impacts through the built environment by preserving the initial terrain, trees and plants. It also takes great care in pest control and cleaning ” products to use less impactful products. As a result, one would expect to find more species at SBR than in a conventional hotel where these could be considered as pest. SBR is trying hard to communicate this message to its guests that biodiversity preservation is important and a primary Guests: misunderstanding on open door concept goal of SBR in order to blend leisure and nature throughout the resort (non air conditioned public spaces). together and provide a memorable staying experience for nature lovers. SBR response: Indeed, at SBR only 28% of the terrain is covered area. The rest has been kept as open spaces as Guests: misunderstandings on the concept not to possible. One of the main reason for this was to preserve provide amenities in the rooms (tooth brush, the existing trees on site (more than 200 initial trees have shampoo bottles...). It has come to our attention been preserved). The other reason is for energy efficiency. that there has been a few misunderstandings on By having open public spaces, which are either using the fact that SBR does not provide amenities kit in natural cooling (wind) or ventilators, SBR is able to the rooms. The misunderstanding is on the fact significantly reduce its energy consumption. SBR believes that SBR is trying to reduce on cost by doing so. that the excessive use of air conditioning in public spaces is not necessary to achieve a desired level of comfort. SBR response: SBR has been very clear that the reason for not systematically providing amenities in Guests: misunderstanding on the need to apply mosquito the guests rooms has nothing to do with cost saving control treatment on site. but is purely an environmental initiative to reduce wastage within the resort and to promote good SBR response: There has been some complains that SBR practices to our guests. We wish to highlight that was using fogging methods to treat its mosquitoes. Some any guest can request for such services and that guest found it to be disturbing while they are enjoying the amenities are indeed available on request by the outdoor environment and that as an eco hotel SBR should guest should they need it. not use chemicals. We believe that too often amenities provided in As a resort which is located in an environment with very hotels throughout the world result in tremendous high vegetal coverage, SBR has no choice but to apply wastage and resource usage. Serious studies also mosquito control procedures. This is actually not only SBR’s highlight that many guests would not make any use choice but also a government regulation in Singapore as of such amenities and usually bring their own part of the fight against dengue fever potential cases. products with them (e.g. tooth brushes, shampoos…). However SBR has taken feedbacks into account and since over a year is trying a new pest control technique that makes use of alternative treatments using a bacterial based solution around the perimeter of the resort. This process is much less impactful on wildlife which is very important to SBR. SBR would like to highlight that it is very mindful of guests comfort and wildlife welfare but it is also concerned about assuring a safe environment for its guests and staff. Siloso Beach Resort Corporate Sustainability Report 2012 89 Environment Siloso Beach Resort Environmental MATERIALS Blending Life and Leisure with Nature Environment Since its conception, SBR has always made use of a EN1 Materials used by weight or volume very significant amount of reused and recycled materials within its facilities. Various materials have been used in the construction of the The concept has overtime been implemented into resort and its daily operations. Two of the most import operational standards and management guidelines. important materials are wood and paper inputs. The below highlights some of the elements: Total weight of paper used for 2010-2011 •Many of the stairways at SBR have made use of unwanted old train tracts wood from Australia. SBR 140 120 has a permanent wood workshop and 100 all the wood coming into SBR is from reused or 80 recycled sources. KG 60 40 •Extensive surfaces of indoor corridor floorings are 20 made from recycled tires (rubber mats) 0 Jan-10 Mar-10 May-10 Jul-10 Sep-10 Nov-10 Jan-11 Mar-11 May-11 Jul-11 Sep-11 Nov-11 • 100% Reused children playground furniture In addition to active implementation of recycled MONTHS and reused elements, SBR is active at promoting and practicing the 3 R’s (Reduce, reuse, recycled). In Weight of normal paper Weight of recycled paper fact, SBR has come up with its own version by adding another R. Indeed, SBR’s policy is first to respect the surrounding environment (especially natural features and its inhabiting biodiversity), and then reduce, reuse and recycle. Total weight of paper used for 2010 : 1042.6 KG Total weight of paper used for 2011 : 1094.6 KG Efforts to reduce are very present throughout the resort with practices implemented in areas such as Total volume of wood used from 2005F&B and housekeeping. 2011 (by cubic meters) “ 120, 23% Primary wood Reused wood 404, 77% ” Total volume of wood used from 2006 to 2011: 524 cubic meters Siloso Beach Resort Corporate Sustainability Report 2012 90 Siloso Beach Resort Blending Life and Leisure with Nature Environment EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials. Material Comment Weight/Volume % of Total Wood At SBR some of the outdoor staircases (numerous 120 cubic 23% considering the hill type of terrain) are from meters reused source from dismantled train rails from Australia. SBR has its own wood workshop and full time carpenters on site which make use of waste wood items collected from demolition sites to make and repair items within the facilities. Outdoor children The children playground has been collected from Not available 100% playground an unwanted source (second hand) Corridor rubber All SBR main corridors carpets have been changed Not available 100% mats to recycled rubber mats Paper We use recycled paper for select areas, such as 31.2 kg 1.5% printing of brochures, name cards, feedback (2010/2011) forms for Eco Tours, various posters, and reports. We plan to increase our percentage of recycled paper usage in the following years. Usage of input materials like paper and wood are a necessity to running our businesses, which unfortunately can contribute to deforestation, climate change, and loss of biodiversity. For this reason we apply the following guidelines: • Maximize use of reused wood • For primary wood, incorporate sustainability (FSC certified) and durability (cheap wood will need to be replaced frequently) • Use recycled paper for selected printing • When normal paper is used, ensure it is not wasted and always used on both sides and then recycled. We actually practice our 4R’s: we believe that we should first Respect nature then Reduce, Reuse and last Recycle. Siloso Beach Resort Corporate Sustainability Report 2012 91 Siloso Beach Resort ENERGY Blending Life and Leisure with Nature Environment At SBR, energy management is well taken care of. The uniqueness of our practices is however towards good initial passive design of the structures at the resort. Indeed, the hotel was designed from the very beginning to be energy efficient. SBR’s electricity consumption is below average for a hotel of this size. The most surprizing aspects of the above graphic is that energy consumption has remained relatively stable over the past few years. This is not due to a lack of actions to reduce our energy consumption, but rather due to the fact that the hotel was designed from the beginning to be energy efficient (mostly through good structural design and energy efficient appliances). At SBR Energy management Phase 2: Retrofitting has been progressive Once the hotel was built, numerous energy efficient technologies and appliances have been and continue to be Phase 1: Good implemented structural design The hotel’s unique architecture allows passive and significant energy efficiency Phase 3: Management Numerous management guidelines were put into place Phase 4: Sharing We are now at the stage of sharing what has been done in order to influence others to adopt energy efficient practices especially on aspects of passive design Siloso Beach Resort Corporate Sustainability Report 2012 92 Energy efficiency through good Siloso Beach Resort Blending Life and Leisure with Nature design Environment SBR central court, open corridors Our open concept combined with high vegetal coverage and other features such as rooftop gardens already account for very high energy efficiency at SBR Siloso Beach Resort Corporate Sustainability Report 2012 93 ENERGY Siloso Beach Resort Blending Life and Leisure with Nature Environment EN5 Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency improvements. Technology Energy saved While it is difficult to evaluate with precision, SBR is confident in saying that 3rd generation 30% savings compared modular heat to more conventional through the combined efforts of the exchange chiller chillers energy efficient technologies, good system energy passive design and good Balanced wave 10% saving on management practices, SBR facilities are systems installed appliances at least 30-40% more energy Efficient lighting 15% compared to throughout incandescent lighting efficient than a conventional building Passive construction 30-40% or more than would be. design conventional buildings What about all the trees? Management 5-10% of energy from guidelines lighting and appliances Furthermore, the decision by the management to Energy efficient 15% compared to preserve a vegetal coverage and trees on site contributes water heater conventional heater to an additional very significant energy saving which we have yet to gain clarifications on. Indeed, trees provide shading, retain humidity and therefore significantly contribute in reducing the building heat load. EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary energy source At SBR the energy source is currently from grid electricity. In Singapore the vast majority of grid electricity is produced through the combustion of natural gas. We also have on site emergency energy generators which operate on diesel. However, these generators are only used in case of main energy supply cut off. Energy used in 2011 by gigajoules 9000 Natural Gas Total, 8,351 8000 (Electricity), 7,768 Natural Gas (Electricity) 7000 Natural Gas (Gas) 6000 Diesel Total gigajoules 5000 4000 3000 2000 Almost all of the energy used Diesel, 376 at SBR is from grid electricity 1000 Natural Gas (Gas), 208 which in Singapore is almost entirely from the combustion 0 Type of energy of natural gas Siloso Beach Resort Corporate Sustainability Report 2012 94 ENERGY Siloso Beach Resort Blending Life and Leisure with Nature Environment Precentage of electricity used based on source 100% 375.665364 GJ 207.6156 GJ 90% 80% 70% “ Diesel ’ 60% 50% Natural Gas (Gas) 7768.12558 GJ 40% Natural Gas (Electricity) ” 30% 20% 10% 0% “ ” “ “ ” ” EN4 Indirect energy consumption by primary source. Indirect Energy Consumption for 2011 Gigajoules Source Indirect Energy Purchased 7768 Electricity (nonrenewable) Estimated* Primary Energy Consumed in 9010 Natural Gas production of Indirect Energy *As no data is available regarding primary energy consumed to produce indirect energy, we have estimated the amount of primary energy used based on the Singapore data for 2009 provided to the International Energy Agency: http://www.iea.org/stats/electricitydata.asp?COUNTRY_CODE=SG Siloso Beach Resort Corporate Sustainability Report 2012 95 SBR’s View on Energy, and why Siloso Beach Resort we are trying our best to be Blending Life and Leisure with Nature energy efficient SBR Opinion The prospect of energy security through a coal-based (This article was first published in ecobusiness.com economy can be seen as a life saver for energy-starved as part of SBR’s environmental outreach program) communities, but would really be a time bomb from a climate point of view! As a reminder, 2010 was declared the year with the highest global greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions Renewing renewables in recorded history. The finding highlights the failure of over While the deployment of large scale 20 years of international climate change negotiations. While renewables (mostly solar and wind) has the debate on climate change is clearly over and warnings of started, the situation is such that without serious consequences of inaction are abundant, we do not major changes, coal and nuclear will likely seem to be changing course from what is rapidly becoming become the predominant energy sources in an unavoidable catastrophe impacting future (and even the decades to come. However, there is a current) generations. We have passed the point at which, no strong case for why none of the latter energy matter what we do, significant changes will happen; it is just sources should be adopted on a large scale a matter of how bad these changes will be. as the solution. In this series of two articles is a clear case for change to a renewableA shift to a coal-based economy would commit us to this based economy. self-destructive path for decades to come. With viable renewable technologies available today, there’s no excuse Coal: an unwanted but likely outcome for choosing the “easy” coal option. Few economists would deny the era of a Why nuclear is not the solution petroleum-based economy is coming to an end. Supplies of oil are vanishing fast; despite Nuclear fission: Many nations have turned to nuclear energy variations in reported supplies most experts to cut down GHG emissions to avoid reaching dangerous agree that within a few decades “easy” atmospheric build-up. Nuclear has been a hot debate for supplies of liquid fossil fuels will vanish. The many years and despite nuclear’s promising start at the end cost of oil can only go up as the supplies of the Second World War, cheap oil has managed to put the become rare or more difficult to access (e.g. technology in the background, with the notable exception of deep sea extraction, tar sands, residual a few countries like France. reserves). Nuclear would indeed allow nations to significantly reduce However, other non-renewable supplies are their GHG emissions; however there are a few major issues still largely abundant, especially coal. While with nuclear fission. renewables are struggling to compete financially with the current cost of cheap (and First, most current nuclear reactors rely on fissile uranium transportable) energy, coal’s low financial (U235 isotope) and the process is highly inefficient. Only cost (oil was four times more expensive than about one per cent of the caloric content of the fuel is coal for energy production purposes in 2006) retrieved while the rest is turned into nuclear waste that will makes it an easy replacement for oil. The last for thousands of years. At about 30 per cent (less than world will probably come to rely on coal once that of modern coal fired plants), the thermodynamic again, and even derive liquid fuels from this efficiency of current nuclear plants is rather low as well. If resource, as the cost of the process will still nuclear was to be applied and sustained in the long term, we be cheaper than that of oil (technology to would need to use advanced nuclear reactors (“breeder convert coal into liquid fuel does exist, in fact reactors”) which more effectively enrich uranium into it was already used during the Second World plutonium. War). These reactors, such as the Super-Phoenix nuclear plant in This trend is already highly visible. Countries France, are much more efficient. About 75 per cent of the like China and the USA (which are likely to original uranium is used effectively. However, using remain the two largest economies in the plutonium reactors poses serious global security issues as 21st century) are both investing heavily in plutonium can also be used to derive nuclear weapons. coal-based energy. In China alone, every single week at least one new coal-fired power Secondly, uranium is not a renewable resource. If uranium plant opens and almost none of the power were exploited on a large scale (especially for the nonplants are oil-based. Furthermore, both of breeder reactor process), power plants would quickly these countries are rich in coal reserves. exhaust uranium ore resources (the time scale is about the same as that for oil or gas). Siloso Beach Resort Corporate Sustainability Report 2012 96 Furthermore, dealing with nuclear waste Siloso Beach Resort (transport and disposal) is still a problem, especially if this process was applied on a much Blending Life and Leisure with Nature SBR Opinion larger scale. To date, no country has developed a permanent solution to even the relatively small amounts of nuclear waste generated in today’s II. The path for change power plants. The need to shift from the current fossil fuel economy to a And finally, past and recent accidents involving low-carbon economy based on alternative energies is at a nuclear plants are putting further doubts on a tipping point. However, despite the numerous solutions larger scale implementation of this technology. available today; our focus is limited to a few renewable energy technologies. Others remain highly unexploited Nuclear fusion: Nuclear fusion is seen by many as despite the fact that they could provide a significant the Holy Grail of clean energy as it could produce contribution. We must continue developing the current unlimited amounts of energy, mostly from sea primary renewables (solar and wind), but we should also water, without nuclear waste and other start exploiting other alternatives on a much larger scale unwanted consequences. However, the reality is than they are used today. No single currently available that we are still far from exploiting this technology can provide a global solution to the energy technology. Major breakthroughs still need to be crisis. achieved to stabilize and confine the reactions. Most experts predict that nuclear fusion will not As previously highlighted, unless major changes are made, it be commercially available for another 50 years. is likely that the world will adopt coal and nuclear as the two However, we are running out of time. We cannot main energy sources in the decades to come. Both of these afford to wait or put all our hopes on fusion. are unwanted outcomes. While it appears that coal and nuclear are the A better and highly necessary alternative easy solutions to energy security in this next section, I address the case for renewables and A better alternative would be a complete shift from fossil the changes required if we are to avoid the fuels to renewables. And although it may seem unrealistic to nuclear/coal scenarios. many, it is possible based on today’s technologies. Here is an overview of the pros and cons of the available options: The common Solar photovoltaic: Solar photovoltaic (PV) has greatly improved in efficiency and cost-effectiveness thanks to extensive research and development in recent years. Even so, efficiency remains relatively low (the conversion factor efficiency of commercial photovoltaic panels based on crystalline silicium cells is approaching 20 per cent) and the cost relatively high. Furthermore, in order to produce significant energy supply from PV, very large surface areas would be required. However, keep in mind the following attractive fact: if we were to convert even a fraction of the world’s deserts into solar photovoltaic farms (e.g. the Sahara desert) we could power the entire planet on solar energy alone. Indeed, the average solar radiation power falling per year on a square meter in the Sahara is higher than 200W. Based on this fact alone, solar photovoltaic is and will remain While the focus has been a major area of focus and hope. New technologies such as concentrated solar and solar films will significantly change on a few renewable the current usage of solar cells. Solar energy could also be energies like solar and harvested directly from space and brought back to Earth in the form of microwaves (such technology is possible and wind, many other types countries such as Japan are considering the option). As Thomas Edison once said: “I’d put my money on the sun and have been put in the solar energy. What a source of power! I hope we don’t have to wait till oil and coal run out before we tackle that.” background Siloso Beach Resort Corporate Sustainability Report 2012 97 Wind energy: Wind energy has been the most Siloso Beach Resort rapidly expanding renewable energy source in recent years and offers great potential. Blending Life and Leisure with Nature SBR Opinion However, we must not forget (and it is often forgotten) that modern wind turbines are complex machines which are resourceIn addition, the large amount of cement required, as well as intensive to make and maintain. For example, the destruction of forests, are responsible for the release of one single turbine contains kilometres of significant amounts of GHGs. Hydroelectric project should be copper wires for which mining and production evaluated carefully for their impacts on both the is a highly polluting and energy-intensive surrounding environment and the communities. Smaller process. From a life cycle point of view, wind scale hydroelectric projects sometimes make more sense as turbines actually emit significant amounts of the destruction to the surrounding areas is minimal. On a greenhouse gases (GHGs). However, wind smaller scale, there is significant potential for micro turbines do pay off over time from an energy hydroelectric turbines. These systems, which make use of perspective and the potential to exploit wind the pressurised flow in transportation pipes and other patterns (especially offshore where they do installations such as buildings, remain virtually unexploited. not compete for space) is promising. The main advantage of wind is that it is widely The less common available. Modern wind turbines can generate about 100 megawatts (MW) per square Passive solar (largely unexploited): New solar passive kilometre, which is on par with solar thermal. technologies which use the sun’s heat to generate steam to A major disadvantage of wind power is that it spin turbines are on the rise and very promising. Several long requires storage capabilities (the grid can term trials of solar towers (concentrating mirrors on a only absorb variable energy output if wind central heat exchanger) have been held in locations such as power is limited to a small percentage of total Seville, Spain or in the United States. Meanwhile, Australia is installed power). It is quite realistic to assume constructing another type of passive solar technology on a that wind power will contribute no more than massive scale: tower funnels that will produce energy in the about five per cent of total power production range of 200 MW. Modern solar thermal power plants have as a larger implementation would require a conversion efficiency of about 30 per cent, about the same significant changes to existing electrical as nuclear plants. Furthermore, the energy payback time for networks. solar thermal is highly favourable at about 5 months. We are only beginning to realise the potential of this relatively Hydropower dams: Hydropower dams are simple technology, which is reliable and requires little well used in countries that have access to maintenance. One drawback is that it requires large surface large amounts of fresh water. Hydropower areas with high solar exposure. However, as with works well from an energy efficiency point of photovoltaic, desert regions exist where such technology view but the construction of dams, especially could be implemented on a large scale. in biodiversity-rich areas, are sometimes truly devastating. Furthermore, the construction of Ocean thermal energy (largely unexploited): Ocean thermal large scale dams (such as the Three Gorges energy has great potential and is one of the least exploited Dam in China) can be responsible for the renewables. There is a significant thermal gradient, or disappearance of entire villages, cultural temperature difference, between the deep ocean and the heritage sites and cause major disruptions to water surface. Commercial exploitation of this energy would natural river flows. For these reasons alone, require significant investment for relatively little output, but hydropower dams are in many cases far from it can be accessed almost anywhere on an ocean and is a a sustainable alternative. constant source. Furthermore, new technologies suggest that the process efficiency could be significantly improved by using passive solar to increase the temperature gradient between the deep sea and the surface. Tidal energy: Tidal energy which is constant and very powerful is also largely unexploited to date. Many locations on the planet have particularly strong tidal currents. A range of new turbine technologies have been tested in recent years and proved that the biggest barrier to the energy source – corrosion – can be reduced. Furthermore tidal energy is predictable (as opposed to wind) and therefore reliable. Siloso Beach Resort Corporate Sustainability Report 2012 98 Siloso Beach Resort Geothermal (largely unexploited): If we put the technology difficulties to the side and Blending Life and Leisure with Nature SBR Opinion focus on the problem as a whole, we come up with the following observation: we are on a planet which contains mostly melted rock at Others: Several less conventional potential renewable very high temperatures and we are only on a sources have barely reached the level of experimental small crust which sits on this magma. We can research. One example would be deriving energy from therefore see our planet as a giant “cooker” bacterial activity on a large scale (many bacterial processes with an unlimited supply of energy just below are exothermic and the free heat generated could be used our feet! Of course the situation is a bit more to derive energy). complicated when it comes to drilling and accessing this heat. However, the situation The forgotten energies has changed dramatically in recent years as advances in drilling technologies (quite Clearly the emphasis is increasingly on photovoltaic and ironically mostly developed by oil and gas wind energies when it comes to renewables. We should companies) now allows drilling at much continue and even accelerate those efforts. But at the same greater depths and makes the exploitation of time, other renewables need much greater attention and geothermal energy possible in many parts of research if we are to avoid the unwanted outcome of a the world that were before non-exploitable. major shift from petroleum to a coal-based energy. Furthermore, an advantage of geothermal is that it does not require the use of much land Geothermal, passive solar, ocean thermal and tidal energies area, giving it an advantage over more landin particular should become predominant focus points. We intensive renewables that are increasingly need to “renew renewables” in the sense that in addition to competing with agriculture and forests for current photovoltaic and wind, other renewable energy space. Much more research should be sources deserve their chances of large scale deployment. allocated to the development of geothermal. They may actually prove more successful at providing sustainable alternatives to the energy crisis. Bioenergy: Bioenergy has big potential; despite serious mistakes made in the early Article by Sylvain Richer de Forges development of biofuels. Decisions to replace large swathes of agricultural fields with biofuel crops have led to global food price rises and security issues. Furthermore, biofuel crops have been a major driver of deforestation. However, new developments such as algae biofuels, which would cultivate supplies from oceans rather than on land, are promising although still experimental. Bioenergy’s main advantage is its emissions reduction potential – recently grown biomass does not contribute to climate change as fossil fuels do. Furthermore, there is enormous opportunity to convert the tremendous amounts of waste generated by society to biofuel (waste to energy). Siloso Beach Resort Corporate Sustainability Report 2012 99 Energy efficiency Siloso Beach Resort Blending Life and Leisure with Nature Third generation modular heat exchange Chiller system. At SBR we believe that investing in more energy efficient technology makes both economic and environmental sense Energy efficient lighting solutions and appliances throughout the resort State of the art Energy efficient water heater for our kitchen Systematic use of LED &CFL And much more… lighting throughout the hotel Siloso Beach Resort Corporate Sustainability Report 2012 100 SBR is home to one of the longest Siloso Beach Resort self maintained roof top gardens in Blending Life and Leisure with Nature Singapore SBR is home to one of the longest self maintained rooftop gardens in Singapore. This helps to significantly increase vegetal coverage and energy efficiency Section of green roof seen from central rooftop Siloso Beach Resort Corporate Sustainability Report 2012 101 Siloso Beach Resort Blending Life and Leisure with Nature SBR case study : Roof Top Garden Technology There are numerous roof top technologies now available (some more proven than others). The advantage of self-sustained roof top gardens is that they provide a significant advantage for naturally cooling the space below. Furthermore, they increase the vegetation coverage and provide habitats for species. It is important to consider implementing a rooftop garden from the beginning as they will add significantly more weight on the structure which needs to be accounted for in the construction design. A simple yet effective methodology consist of constructing containers on the roof. The containers bottom should have a slight angle and be connected to a drain so that water does not accumulate. The first layer comprises an egg shell substrate (to retain humidity); on top a layer of sand (about 30cm) so that roots will not penetrate the structure; on top soil is finally added. Siloso Beach Resort Corporate Sustainability Report 2012 102 Siloso Beach Resort Blending Life and Leisure with Nature Open air pathways SBR open air structural Open air corridors concept plays a significant role in passively reducing the energy use around the resort (natural air flow + natural lighting). At SBR more than 70% of the terrain has remained open space And much more… Open air cafe Siloso Beach Resort Corporate Sustainability Report 2012 103 EN6 & EN7 Initiatives to provide energyefficient or renewable energy based Siloso Beach Resort products and services to reduce indirect Blending Life and Leisure with Nature Environment energy consumption and reductions in energy requirements as a result of these initiatives. Energy saving through outreach •Management Energy Saving Guidelines for staff: specific staff guidance for energy SBR has management. The guidance highlights best practices and limitations that SBR staff must respect and that contribute in reducing our energy usage. These guidance include (but are not limited) to aspects such as: Switching lights off in areas not in use (e.g. seminar rooms after events) or switching off specific appliances when not in use. SBR Energy unit •Messages to initiate guests to save energy: Our third generation modular heat exchange chiller system is very efficient and was customized for our resort to we try to involve Our approach at SBR is that maximize energy efficiency output our guests as much as possible. As an eco resort we promote environmental messages •Third generation modular heat exchange chiller system throughout the site. We however believe that in a •Energy efficient boiler in kitchen hotel environment we cannot force our guests to •Energy efficient TVs and general electrical appliances take such actions but we are doing everything we •Window films: all the rooms windows are fitted with can to encourage our guests to take part in our protective films which serve the purpose of filtering sun environmental initiatives. Such measures include: radiation and dimming the sunlight. By doing so, the rooms numerous environment education messages are kept at a cooler temperature throughout the resort ( messages are strongly present in all locations starting from the reception); Energy Saving through initial design 2 in-house TV channels are dedicated to environmental awareness. One showcases a movie Open concept: All the room corridors have an open concept on general environmental trends, while another which serves the purpose of maximizing natural air flow and one is a slide show designed by SBR that intends to natural lighting therefore significantly reducing energy educate the guests on main environmental issues consumption for cooling or lighting purposes. At SBR and to take actions to contribute in reducing these numerous public spaces adopt an open air concept such as impacts (water management, climate change, the café/restaurant area, outdoor gym. It was in fact one of biodiversity losses…). the original guidelines that the built area would be kept to a minimal (built-up environment is only 28%). At SBR we do not provide default amenities (shampoo bottles…). We however explain to our All the buildings are on stilts: It was decided that all the guests that we intend to reduce our impacts by not buildings were to be constructed on stilts (main buildings as providing these by default. However guests who well as the villas). Having the structures on stilts allows air would like to have access to these products can flow to circulate from below the buildings as well as request for it free of charge. between buildings which provides a natural cooling effect (only slight cooling is achieved through this mean). Energy Saving through technology Roof top garden: SBR is home to one of the longest rooftop •LED & CFL lights: throughout the resort, gardens in Singapore which also plays a key role in passive •Energy efficient pumps: energy efficiency. •Extensive use of fans instead of air conditioning: •Balanced wave technology: (a technology that reshapes the incoming electrical current therefore Despite common disbelief, making it more stable and significantly reducing very significant energy savings can energy loss through heating). •3rd generation heat exchange chiller system: be achieved through good design Siloso Beach Resort Corporate Sustainability Report 2012 104 Siloso Beach Resort Blending Life and Leisure with Nature SBR case study: Open Concept Constructing to maximize natural air flow patterns “ It is very important when conceptualizing the building’s orientation and structure that attention be put on air flow patterns. There are tremendous energy efficiency benefits to be gained by taking advantage of natural wind patterns (e.g. sea breeze) and to even amplify natural patterns through good design. ” First dimension (inter building air flow): attention should be put in buildings orientations. A disposition that seems to work well is to subdivide buildings into smaller estates. Each estate would comprise of a few buildings surrounding a narrow central open space (e.g. with a swimming pool in the middle). Such arrangement creates corridors which amplify wind patterns and naturally cool down the space. Another technique to maximize the breeze is to split buildings in two, this will allow further airflow to navigate not just around but also through the building (intakes for second dimension can be made at this location). Second dimension (inner building air flow): attention should be put within each building on how wind patterns will interact. Now that wind is already flowing through each building (first dimension) there is potential to incorporate corridors within buildings in order to capture and make this wind circulate not just outside but inside the buildings as well. Siloso Beach Resort Corporate Sustainability Report 2012 105 Siloso Beach Resort Blending Life and Leisure with Nature SBR Spring Water Swimming Pool One of the unique features at SBR is the natural spring that lies below our resort. This natural source of water which would otherwise naturally flow out to sea is used for various purposes including gardening and to provide water for our landscape swimming pool. Siloso Beach Resort Corporate Sustainability Report 2012 106 Case study : Our Swimming pool Siloso Beach Resort Blending Life and Leisure with Nature treatment process At SBR, our swimming pool is truly unique in many ways. Through the way it was built following the natural terrain, to the way it is treated going away from conventional chemical uses to the source of the water which is from an underground reservoir The below diagram provides a very schematic overview of the process 2. Waterfall oxygenation process 3. Salt treatment We regularly add salt to treat the pool. This ionization process is much better than using chlorine 1. Bio-filters Treatment ponds These 80m+ long ponds contain various plants and fishes which serve as bio-indicators of the quality of the pool There are two sections of the pond: 1)Only plants 4. Pool 2) Plant + fishes The pond also serves the purpose of rebalancing the pH to neutral Our swimming pool uses an integrated natural treatment process 5. Sand filtration 6. Spring Water Source. At the source, the water is cleaned through a decantation process to get rid of larger particles and clear the water Siloso Beach Resort Corporate Sustainability Report 2012 107 •Roof top gardens: To date (2011) SBR still has one Siloso Beach Resort of the longest self maintained roof top gardens in Blending Life and Leisure with Nature Environment Singapore. This extensive roof top covers the entire surface area of the main building. In addition to ecological benefits it also serves the purpose of cooling the building below therefore significantly reducing the energy requirements for cooling the below indoor spaces. WATER Water saving initiatives at SBR •Spring water usage: Below SBR lies a natural spring reservoir. SBR has made good use of this natural resource in order to minimize water wastage. Spring water is mostly used for the swimming pool as well as for all gardening purposes. Government regulations impose the usage of tap water for other usages such as guests rooms and F&B. •Water saving appliances: SBR has installed water efficient appliances throughout the resort including guests rooms and public areas. These include: •Water efficient taps (sensors) •Water control valves •Water efficient taps and shower heads •Waterless urinals (in all public toilets) •Water saving policies: SBR has put in place specific guidelines for its staff to minimize water consumption which are part of our environmental management guidelines. •Water awareness: SBR spreads awareness on the need to conserve water resources through numerous educational panels throughout the resort including one of its huts (“the water hut”) which is dedicated to water issues. There is also information on this topic within SBR in-house eco TV channels. “ •Water harvesting/roof top garden: SBR’s self sustained rooftop garden allows water to be harvested and naturally purified. Plants on the rooftop do not need extra watering due to the water retention properties of the rooftop garden. ” Siloso Beach Resort Corporate Sustainability Report 2012 108 Why we treat water with care Siloso Beach Resort at SBR: The value of water, a Blending Life and Leisure with Nature SBR Opinion lesson from arid areas The concerns (This article was first published in Fresh water resources on Earth are running out fast for three ecobusiness.com as part of SBR environmental main reasons: outreach program) Overconsumption: With rapidly growing global population Fresh water depletion has been identified as one and industrialisation comes an exponential increase in water of the most problematic and impactful issues demand both for individual consumption and industrial use. that we will face during the century. Yet, in most In fact many aquifers and fossil water storage areas are modern societies treated fresh water is wasted in running dry, and more and more rivers no longer reach the large amounts while at the same time many sea because so much has been extracted along the way. places are facing imminent severe water shortages. We should rethink the Climate change: Climate shifts will greatly affect and modify value of water and learn from places which the distribution and availability of fresh water on Earth. through water scarcity have come to understand Many communities, which have been dependent on natural its value. cycles for their water consumption and agricultural needs, will be severely affected. Fresh water on Earth is very valuable for us humans as it is not only our lifeline for survival, Contamination: With industrialisation also comes pollution, but also indispensable for agriculture and other particularly the contamination of fresh water supplies. essential activities on which we depend. Stored underground water sources that used to be consumable have become so polluted that they now require We live on a “water planet”, but only about 2.5 expensive treatments. per cent of the total amount of water on Earth is fresh – the vast majority is stored in the oceans in An appreciation of its value a salty form. And only a small fraction of fresh water sources are readily available for While many nations have benefited from seemingly consumption. unlimited supplies of fresh water over the years, many places around the world have had to rely on very restricted Wastage supplies of fresh water and have had to learn to adapt and value this resource. Modern societies have completely lost appreciation for the value of fresh water. Two scenarios occur: In some places water is simply too Indeed, fresh clean water is provided in a very difficult to access to waste any of it, while in other places convenient way: we switch on the tap and water water is available but contaminated, and treating the water comes out. Most of us never bother to consider is too expensive for poor communities to have the luxury of where the water comes from and which wastage. processes it has undergone to transform it into the clean consumable fresh water pouring from In such places, water is clearly the most precious resource our taps. and its usage is restricted and valued. All aspects of water management are based on conserving the resource using We tend to forget that the water we drink, the practices such as no wastage during transport; storing the water that we shower with, the water that we water and reusing every drop (e.g. closed loop irrigation); waste so easily requires complex treatments but most importantly, the resource is consumed wisely with which are both highly energy intensive and full recognition of its value. costly. But most of all, we have forgotten that fresh water is a scarce resource that takes a long Citing Antoine de Saint-Exupery: “What makes the desert time to renew itself through natural processes. In beautiful is that somewhere it hides a well.” As fresh water modern developed societies water usage is becomes rarer, more difficult to reach and more expensive simply highly inefficient. Wastage occurs at all to treat, we will come to understand its value as they have levels, from over-usage (domestic and industrial) done in arid areas. But it may be too late. to utilisation of clean treated water for a range of non-necessary applications. Fresh water is scarce and expensive to produce, we should use it with more care… Siloso Beach Resort Corporate Sustainability Report 2012 109 The business case Siloso Beach Resort Unless significant breakthroughs lead to Blending Life and Leisure with Nature SBR Opinion much cheaper ways of treating water, current technological processes (desalinisation and The solutions waste water treatment) do not provide large scale solutions to the water crisis. The cost of Despite recent improvements in water treatment, there is the process is simply too expensive and not a clear solution to date on how to provide clean water at energy intensive. Indeed, a single modern low cost on a global scale. desalinisation plant costs hundreds of millions of US dollars! While convenient for While most of our efforts have focused on technology wealthier nations, these technologies seem improvements (desalinisation and waste water treatment), unrealistic for most developing countries. relatively few efforts have been put into finding more passive ways of cleaning large bodies of water such as using The cost of tap water (treated water) in natural filters (e.g. plants) or other means that do not developed countries does not reflect its value require significant energy inputs; because in fact the water and is therefore abundantly wasted. Yet, treatment challenge is an energy one. controversially the sale of bottled water is one of the most successful drink businesses, and In the end, large scale water management comes down to a single bottle can cost more than US$20 for maintaining healthy ecosystems. In natural environments, 500mL! There seems to be a paradox here: water is purified through the work of organisms and we are willing to pay an expensive premium substrates filtration (natural filtration through layers of on water which is naturally purified. However, earth). If we preserve ecosystems, we also ensure the purity treated tap water prices remain low while the of the water supplies. treatment cost is very high. Distortions in the value of fresh water are synonymous with Another obvious step is to vary the degree of water various instabilities (price, markets, political, treatment according to its end use. Still today clean treated etc…) and will likely induce changes in water consumable water is wasted on applications which do not prices. require it to be thoroughly treated (e.g. cooling in industrial processes, irrigation…) As a general rule the more At the end of the day, as fresh water purification required, the more energy intensive and resources deplete, the cost of water can only expensive the process. Wastage could be greatly reduced go up. We can therefore expect the cost of with better management of clean treated water. consumable water (both treated and untreated) to rise significantly throughout the The future will require us to be smarter about the way we century. To avoid this scenario, significant treat and use water. We need to diversify water sources, advancements in the way water is used and including captured and stored rainfall, and reduce the produced need to be found. treatment costs to a level that can be deployed on a wide scale for all economies. “ Article by Sylvain Richer de Forges ” Siloso Beach Resort Corporate Sustainability Report 2012 110 Siloso Beach Resort EN8 Total water withdrawal by source Blending Life and Leisure with Nature Environment The above graphic represents the water Because SBR has a natural supply of fresh water that consumption of SBR since august 2006. While water continuously comes out, its tap water consumption consumption has slightly decreased overtime, it remains very low. SBR makes use of two distinct has remained quite stable. sources of fresh water: one comes from the spring and It is important to highlight that SBR has very special the other is tap water from the network. Spring water is conditions when it comes to water usage. Indeed, mostly used for the swimming pool and gardening whereas the tap water is used for guests services in rooms below SBR lies a nature spring reservoir which (showering…). SBR has a very significant positive impact by naturally flows out to sea. During the construction allowing the management of Sentosa island to pump water phase, this underground source was discovered and SBR has since made good use of the resource. from its spring which is used to water the surrounding areas ( for gardening and landscaping purposes). Water Withdrawal by Source in 2011 (in cubic meters) “ Tap Water (guest rooms, kitchen) 7008, 17% Rain Water (rooftop ” 2499, 6% garden and swimming pool) Spring Water 31652, 77% (swimming pool, gardening, general cleaning) Siloso Beach Resort Corporate Sustainability Report 2012 111 Siloso Beach Resort Most of SBR water consumption originates from an Blending Life and Leisure with Nature Environment underground spring water reservoir. The water that is taken from this source is of natural origin and if EN10 Percentage and total volume of water not taken would otherwise flow out to sea. As such recycled and reused. SBR water usage from this source has no impacts on diminishing water reserves within the In addition to its very efficient water consumption spring. practices, SBR also has initiatives in place to recycle and reuse the water. Such initiatives include: •Roof top garden: allows a significant amount of rainwater to be collected if needed SBR’s has a very limited consumption •Swimming pool closed loop system •Extensive use of groundwater for gardening of city tap water (due to its natural spring •Excess water from the spring goes to a reservoir which is source and water saving initiatives) used by Sentosa management to collect and water the entire island EN9 Water sources significantly •Spring water excess: affected by withdrawal of water The below graphic highlights the volumes reused/recycled: SBR water sources are: “ ’ None of these sources are significantly affected by the withdrawal of water from SBR as usage is well managed and kept to a minimal. Actually, the spring water is not actively pumped from the ground but naturally flows out. As such, if SBR was not making use of it, it would just flow out to sea. Furthermore, the Spring is regularly refilled with rainwater. ” No sources of the water used at SBR are from protected areas/areas of biodiversity value or sources of importance to local community. SBR takes great efforts into Recycled Water for 2011 managing the source in (in cubic meters) the most sustainable way possible. Discharged Water (Tap 9507, 23% Water) Recycled Water (Rain Water and Spring Water) 31652, 77% Siloso Beach Resort Corporate Sustainability Report 2012 112 Siloso Beach Resort Water management Blending Life and Leisure with Nature SBR is involved in a very special and major water initiative. Indeed, it allows Sentosa water contractors to extract water from its pond to water the entire island Numerous water saving features throughout the resort And much more… Siloso Beach Resort Corporate Sustainability Report 2012 113 BIODIVERSITY Siloso Beach Resort At SBR biodiversity has a very special Blending Life and Leisure with Nature Environment significance. Indeed, because the location EN12 Description of significant impacts of of the resort is on pristine forested terrain, activities, products, and services on biodiversity biodiversity is relatively high especially in protected areas and areas of high biodiversity when compared to other parts of value outside protected areas. Singapore. As the site surrounding SBR is a forested terrain, SBR’s EN11 Location and size of land owned, activities do have certain impacts on biodiversity: leased, managed in, or adjacent to, protected areas and areas of high SBR significant impacts on biodiversity biodiversity value outside protected •Noise: Despite that noise levels are kept at reasonable areas. levels, some disturbances on biodiversity resources do occur. The location of SBR is on a forested mountain hill. Around and behind the resort lies protected •Built environment: As building structures have been terrains which hold many trees and a relatively rich developed on site, some disturbance on biodiversity have inhabiting biodiversity. occurred during the construction phase. It is however important to highlight that extraordinary measures to SBR was constructed with minimal digging, does not preserve the original terrain and minimize the impacts on own any underground area. biodiversity have been taken. Measures taken at SBR to preserve the natural terrain are unique and exemplary. The property of SBR is not listed as protected status nor considered as protected by any organization. •Gardening (e.g. cutting down branches): Occasional maintenance work in order to insure guests safety are Location: carried regularly. These activities mostly include cutting Map of resort with surroundings. down tree branches which may cause slight disturbances to wildlife. •Mosquito control (spraying of chemicals on plants) : In order to meet government standards and insure guests comfort and safety (dengue control), mosquito treatment do have to be carried on site. SBR has in the past used the traditional fumigation treatment. However, since the last few months, a new treatment using less impactful chemicals is under trial. Habitat protected or restored •Overall resort environment: Despite the built environment, a significant portion of the land has been preserved. We can see from the satellite image that SBR is •All trees : All grown trees on site have been surrounded by forested terrain. While preserved. large parts of Sentosa island have been allocated for •Ponds: Many ponds around the resort have been development of the built environment, only a patch preserved in order to maintain their rich inhabiting of greenery remains in the central part of the island biodiversity. Furthermore, many other man made ponds have been added throughout the resort. around the resort. SBR is conscious of this, and •Roof top garden: SBR’s extensive roof top gardens not only has taken strong measures to ensure the has energy efficiency attributes, but they also allow preservation of wildlife not only on its site but additional greenery coverage including the plantation of also insuring that its operations have very limited various species that attract insects. impacts on the surrounding. At this time SBR is not working with any other organizations Size of land owned: to protect or restore habitat, however this may be a consideration for future CSR initiatives. We are are actively 15,449.0 m2 using the Biodiversity Potal website to promote parties that protect natural habitat. Siloso Beach Resort Corporate Sustainability Report 2012 114 At SBR biodiversity is important and here are some reasons why: Siloso Beach Resort Blending Life and Leisure with Nature Driving an Innovation revolution SBR Opinion through Biomimetics Also noteworthy is the fact that our medicines are derived (This article was first published in from molecules found in the few species that can be ecobusiness.com as part of SBR environmental replicated and reproduced in the laboratory (most molecules outreach program) are too complex to be artificially synthesised). Such pharmacy applications are also a branch of biomimetics. This century, in order to deal with growing environmental crises, significant technology To date the concept hasn’t really been exploited to the level breakthroughs must be found. While we are it could be and we do not seem to have understood the currently mostly focusing on existing ideas and potential. Yet the main concept is simple: because species improving technologies which have long been on Earth are the result of millions of years of adaptations known, what we really need is a “green enabling them to survive over time in their given revolution” and new ideas to support a low carbon ecosystems, they already provide highly specialised and economy. This will only be achieved through a adapted traits that we can imitate instead of trying to find significant new way of thinking. the answers by ourselves. Solutions to the numerous engineering problems that we face can be found through the Biomimetics and using ecosystem services to our study of species. advantage could truly be the next big revolution. However, we are currently doing the exact opposite This statement relies on simple facts and logical deductions: of what is required by destroying the very species holding the key to the innovation breakthroughs There are still millions of species on the planet (anywhere that might ensure our own survival. from 40 to 150 millions); Biomimetics, the study of natural processes and Species are found in almost any given type of environment on living species for the purpose of imitating them for Earth; human related processes, is very promising but is still in early stages and currently largely Each environment requires very specific adaptations for unexploited. Gaining inspiration from biology could species to have survived over time; play a double role of both fueling a green revolution and providing an additional business reason to For species to have survived over time, the adaptations they preserve biodiversity. have gained are optimized to deal with their environments. There are only a few real case studies to illustrate Thus, wherever we want to find optimal adaptations and biomimetic applications to date. Most often efficiency in design, we should first search for it in nature; examples are merely demonstrations of similarities the odds are that one or more species already provide the between natural processes and engineering ultimate solutions and adaptations. applications; these technologies haven’t really been developed by studying species themselves. A methodology for thought Probably one of the best examples of a technology Along with an understanding of the value of exploiting these that is truly the product of the in-depth study of a adaptations, we must also develop a clear methodology for species trait is “Velcro,” which is widely used businesses to benefit from the concept. No real around the world to stick surfaces together. This methodology has been put in place.Whenever looking into invention was derived from the seed of Arctium applying biomimetic principles to a problem, the following lapa. simple methodology could be applied: Other examples include the winglets on the tip of 1) Ask: what problem do we intend to solve? E.g. maximize airplane wings that mimic birds’ wings to the efficiency of flight; find the best shape to maximise significantly improve fuel consumption during flight; energy and strength output (for instance insect builders such certain recent breakthroughs in robotics that have as ants or bees construct structures which through their been achieved by studying the walking patterns or shape and materials are much stronger and lighter than the neuronal signals of simple insects; a building in constructions that we do today); find a way to climb vertical Africa that has been constructed by mimicking the surfaces; structure of a termite nest, which uses a chimney effect to provide very efficient natural cooling. Siloso Beach Resort Corporate Sustainability Report 2012 115 find an antifouling solution to avoid algae buildup Siloso Beach Resort on ships (which costs the shipping economy billions Blending Life and Leisure with Nature SBR Opinion of dollars each year); develop the most efficient solar cells (plants still convert solar radiation to Businesses and investors who see the huge opportunity energy in a much more efficient way that any presented by biomimetics will allocate the resources to exploit photovoltaic cell can achieve today); and the list of biomimetic principles. It will be challenging but the payback is problems that we need to solve and find the potentially enormous. In a world in which we face truly unultimate solution for is virtually infinite… precedented environmental and energy crises, we need an innovation revolution and a total change of practices. 2) Find species in nature that have had to adapt to a similar problem; The interesting aspect of biomimetics from a business perspective is that a large part of the work is already available; 3) Perform in depth study of the adaptations or all that needs to be done is to allocate the resources to find traits that have allowed these species to resolve the the appropriate species to study and then extract the ideas problem; that can be applied to the business. Today, most of the workload in corporate research and development is put into 4) Apply the natural traits by artificially mimicking finding new innovative ideas that will provide a market them through engineering, robotics, pharmacology advantage over competitors. The amount of time allocated or other discipline. could be drastically reduced by searching for the solution in nature rather than spending millions of dollars in unproven This last part of the process may take years of research. Global corporations wanting to take the lead in research. However, the research has a higher innovation and R&D with cost effective solutions should be chance of success than non-biomimetic research looking at biomimetic principles to provide precisely what (having already been proven in nature) and the manufacturers and service providers seek in a competitive payback is likely to be an innovation breakthrough. corporate world. For biomimetic research to be successful, it requires The limitation and the biodiversity crisis the work of truly multidisciplinary teams comprising engineers, biologists, chemists and project Even as we struggle to understand the potential of managers. If we look at history, the real scientific biomimetics, the very material to develop this revolutionary breakthroughs have most often occurred at the field is on a path of disappearing. We know that species on frontier of sciences through a multidisciplinary Earth are being driven to extinction at alarming rates. approach. It therefore makes sense that this is the According to Conservation International at least one species way we should go if we intend to make innovation goes extinct every 20 minutes. While the rate of extinction is breakthroughs quickly. impossible to estimate with certainty due to the simple fact that the vast majority (about 90 per cent) remains to be The business angle discovered and studied, we do know very well that natural habitats are vanishing as a result of our activities Businesses and investors who see the huge (deforestation, urbanization, agriculture, fires…). We also opportunity presented by biomimetics will allocate know that the global climate is warming (which is already the resources to exploit biomimetic principles. It will starting to bring many species to extinction and will become a be challenging but the payback is potentially predominant driver for species extinctions in years to come) enormous. In a world in which we face truly unand that human induced pressures such as pollution are precedented environmental and energy crises, we pushing species to extinction at a rate at least 1000 times the need an innovation revolution and a total change of natural rate of species extinction. practices. Like nanotechnology (which itself could move forward through biomimetic studies), biomimetics could lead to the next industrial revolution. We are however destroying the “knowledge bank” necessary for this revolution to happen. If governments and corporations globally could realise the potential there is in preserving biodiversity for biomimetic applications, they would certainly act to preserve the diversity of life on Earth. They would treat biodiversity as an asset, an investment or perhaps a global data bank. There is still hope that such realisation could happen. But time is running out fast. Article by Sylvain Richer de Forges Siloso Beach Resort Corporate Sustainability Report 2012 116 Biodiversity on site Siloso Beach Resort Blending Life and Leisure with Nature Birds nesting on site Numerous squirrels can be spotted on site By preserving the trees and areas of forested terrain, SBR has managed to maintain a higher degree of biodiversity on its premises… 8 species of frogs have been monitored on site Numerous insects and invertebrates in our forested areas Numerous species of plants on site (mostly local species) Siloso Beach Resort Corporate Sustainability Report 2012 117 Siloso Beach Resort Alternative Environmentally Blending Life and Leisure with Nature friendly mosquito control Numerous self sustained ponds have been implemented throughout the resort. In addition to providing habitats for a diversity of species, these ponds are also growing grounds for fish that eats mosquito larvae as well as dragonflies which effectively serve as a natural mosquito control agent In addition SBR is using an alternative mosquito control treatment (instead of traditional fogging) using a bacterial based solution instead of conventional fogging. This treatment allows much less impact to the variety of species on site (insects, reptiles…) Siloso Beach Resort Corporate Sustainability Report 2012 118 Siloso Beach Resort Blending Life and Leisure with Nature Live trees passing through all our villas Our unique concept of blending the natural surrounding environment with structures: Throughout the resort in order to preserve many of the existing trees, we have integrated the trees within the built structure. As such almost all of our villa rooms as well as many parts of the buildings actually have trees passing through them. Other techniques of preserving the trees are also found throughout the resort. Siloso Beach Resort Corporate Sustainability Report 2012 119 Siloso Beach Resort Blending Life and Leisure with Nature A few snap shots from the resort of integrations of trees within the structures. There are in fact countless examples of such practices throughout the resort. Indeed, whenever possible, trees have been preserved and integrated into the built design Siloso Beach Resort Corporate Sustainability Report 2012 120 Siloso Beach Resort Blending Life and Leisure with Nature Case study: Integrating trees within the structure Fast growing trees: There are numerous ways to include plants and trees within the buildings. A simple technique consists of having glass tanks going through the building structure (from ceiling to basement) where trees and plants would be in the middle. This works best if the buildings are constructed on stilts: the trees lie on a container tank; at the bottom of the tank are holes for the water to go through but small enough for the leaves not to pass. This technique both protects the trees and enables them to benefit from rainfall without damaging the surrounding structure (water will just flow on the glass and exit at the bottom of the tank). Slow growing trees: For larger and slow growing trees, another method consists of having them literally go through the buildings ceiling and basement. This can be achieved by building the structure around the tree branches and trunk and to allocate joints where openings are (openings need to be adjusted on a regular basis as trees grow). This technique is possible and works well. Joints usually only consist of thick ropes (keeps the water out) and rubber (tires serving as shock absorbers when trees move). For bigger trees, the buildings need to be constructed around and tree ways must be part of the design. This is usually done by allocating a space in the structure for the tree to pass (i.e. building walls are constructed around the tree Fast growing tree Slow growing tree allocating enough space for the main tree element and foliage). Branches can then be let to pass through the floors. For this purpose holes can be made inside the floor. It is important to buffer the movement of the branches with bumpers which are usually car tires. In order to prevent people It is possible to build structures from falling into the hole, a wooden board is while preserving existing trees and freely placed on top of the hole and surrounding the tree. maximizing vegetal coverage: SBR is Furthermore, it is important to install lightning a case study that demonstrates this protection on the tree trunks (metal wire going to the ground) in order to protect both the trees and fact. the structure. Siloso Beach Resort Corporate Sustainability Report 2012 121 Siloso Beach Resort Trees VS structures Blending Life and Leisure with Nature Environment Our concept of allowing trees to pass through the structure is highly present throughout our resort Siloso Beach Resort Corporate Sustainability Report 2012 122 Dinosaur bones exhibit Siloso Beach Resort Blending Life and Leisure with Nature Display of real dinosaur bones within our reception area and information on conservation Waste wood workshop SBR wood workshop. Most of the wood at SBR originates from unwanted wood from construction sites. We then reprocess the wood for maintenance, furniture… Roof top farming Roof top garden growing facility. We produce vegetables and spices without any use of chemicals Siloso Beach Resort Corporate Sustainability Report 2012 123 Case study: Dinosaur Siloso Beach Resort Blending Life and Leisure with Nature Environment At SBR we have recently become very involved with dinosaurs in the most unusual way. At SBR we want to share Siloso Beach Resort is proud to showcase Real Dinosaur Bones on its premises. our passion for The display of these bones is a joint venture between Siloso Dinosaurs Beach Resort (SBR) and the National University of Singapore (NUS). Background: So how did SBR get into possession of real dinosaur bones??! Well it all started with the close collaboration that SBR has with the Raffles Museum of Biodiversity Research http://rmbr.nus.edu.sg/ (NUS). SBR has been in close contact with this reputable institution since SBR started the development of the Biodiversity Portal of Singapore (www.biodiversity.sg ) which is one of its CSR programs. Following this SBR has been actively involved with some of the Museum activities. Recently it came to our attention that the RMBR intended to expend into a new National History Museum for Singapore. One of the main attractions the upcoming Museum was looking forward to was to have a unique display of complete and real dinosaur skeletons. In order to make this a reality the RMBR embarked on an ambitious fund raising exercise to raise enough money to purchase 3 unique and almost complete dinosaur skeletons (believed to be from the same family), a world first! SBR immediately responded to this by gifting a significant amount of money for this unique and most worthy cause. SBR was the first donor to put money on the table which sparked other donors to come on board as well. Since then, the necessary funds of 12 million have been collected from various donors (including SBR) and the dinosaurs skeletons are now under way to Singapore! In appreciation of our move in initiating this much needed funding exercise, the RMBR has accepted to collaborate with us in mounting this preliminary dinosaur exhibit which intends to inform the guests passing by the hotel and various stakeholders on the importance of dinosaurs, biodiversity preservation and to promote the upcoming National History Museum where the full skeletons will be displayed starting in 2014. Siloso Beach Resort Corporate Sustainability Report 2012 124 EN14 Strategies, current actions, and Siloso Beach Resort future plans for managing impacts on Blending Life and Leisure with Nature Environment biodiversity. SBR is Fully compliant with national regulations and Anyone coming to SBR will quickly notice the extent of the goes above and beyond regulations for preserving efforts which have been made to preserve the trees and trees and biodiversity. incorporate them within the structure. Since its construction stage, very significant •Different innovative construction techniques were applied consideration has been taken to preserve the to incorporate the trees. biodiversity on site. Biodiversity preservation and •In some parts, buildings have been built around trees. education remain to date one of the main •In some parts, trees literally go through the structure. guidance of SBR. •In other parts, trees are in close proximity of buildings. Going beyond just preserving the trees, one other During the initial development stage very special important initial guidance in the development of SBR was to care and measures have been applied to preserve as much as possible the biodiversity on site. preserve the terrain. In order to do this, a minimum of built surface area has been allocated while the vast One of the strongest decisions was to preserve majority of the resort remains open terrain, much all the trees. This was a very serious commitment of it with its original vegetal coverage. which required a lot of special attention and extra efforts: In order to preserve the terrain, the resort was built making use of original shape of the land. For instance, the SBR conducted an environmental site assessment of swimming pool was just placed where an old dirt road used to be. The same concept was applied in many other the trees affected by construction. More than locations such as the villa wing where villas emplacements 200 fully grown trees have been preserved were chosen according to the less impactful locations for on site: In order to achieve this, special construction the trees and surrounding vegetal coverage. techniques had to be applied. This included the use of micro bore pilling techniques. This pilling In a later phase of development of SBR, further targets technique using lighter equipment bores a hole were developed to enhance biodiversity. In particular, 450 instead of compacting the earth, which allows to additional trees were planted, and numerous man-made significantly reduce the amount of vibrations near ponds have been placed in various locations of the resort. the tree roots and to preserve the trees (the use of These self-maintained ecosystems, attract a variety of conventional pilling techniques would have killed wildlife including frogs, dragonflies and many others. most of the trees). Pushing the concept, SBR is trying hard new solutions Training and supervision. Such decision to of mosquito control (which is usually done by preserve the trees was very unusual at the time of fumigation) that would be less impactful to biodiversity. A construction in Singapore and therefore required new control mechanisms using BTI technology is currently extra attention during construction. Indeed, under trial. These treatments are meant to be more constant supervision of the worker’s teams was focused on certain species (mosquitoes) and therefore required to make sure that no toxic spills or other known to have lesser impacts on other species inhabiting common practices were going to affect the trees. the premises. Because there were so many trees to preserve, buildings had to be built around these trees. This A future objective would be to better understand and was a particular challenge and each tree required monitor the biodiversity of the area by establishing a photo an average of 10 consultants to make sure that both database to record the various species and sightings. the trees and the surrounding structures would coexist well. Having done so many efforts to preserve the biodiversity on site, SBR is very active at promoting not only the preservation of species on site but also educating on the concept of biodiversity on a large scale. Indeed, SBR has implemented various educational programs on this topic. Siloso Beach Resort Corporate Sustainability Report 2012 125 SBR Biodiversity Outreach Programs Siloso Beach Resort Blending Life and Leisure with Nature Environment •Biodiversity Exhibit: permanent A EN15 Number of IUCN Red List species and picture exhibit on biodiversity within national conservation list species with habitats our café area. The pictures (both medium in areas affected by operations, by level of and large size) on display were all taken extinction risk. within the resort. Our aim is to promote biodiversity and to showcase that our Singapore National Parks board has published a book conservation efforts have allowed to highlighting endangered species in Singapore. preserve a rich variety of species on site. SBR has a copy of this book for its reference and information can also be obtained from the following •Biodiversity Portal: SBR has website: developed the Biodiversity Singapore red list Portal of Singapore Website which has gained strong support from leading http://www.nparks.gov.sg/cms/index.php?option=com_co organisations in the field both locally and ntent&view=article&id=146&Itemid=128 internationally. Program supported by: United Nations, Conservation International, World Wide Fund for Nature (WWF), National University of Singapore, Singapore Science Centre, Singapore Institute of Biology, Singapore Environment Council. Website:(www.biodiversity.sg) Number of IUCN red list species potentially affected: 2 •Eco tours: SBR eco tours have a special According to the Singapore Red List, both these species are emphasis on biodiversity preservation on present on Sentosa and thus could potentially be affected our site. To date, more than 3500 persons by our operations: have attended the tours from various stakeholders: schools, universities, Spotted Owl (Strix occidentalis) Status: Near Threatened corporates, guests… Oriental Magpie -Robin (Copsychus saularis) •TV eco channels: Two in-house TV Status: Least Concern channels are dedicated to environmental awareness and both cover elements of We are also concerned about these issues and we provide a range of information on species including links to biodiversity issues amongst other endangered species in Singapore from our biodiversity site . environmental issues. Biodiversity Portal of Singapore www.biodiversity.sg Siloso Beach Resort Corporate Sustainability Report 2012 126 EMISSIONS, EFFLUENTS, AND WASTE Siloso Beach Resort Blending Life and Leisure with Nature Environment SBR takes the consequences faced by EN16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas global climate change seriously. emissions by weight. Despite that it is aware that its own operations have In Singapore 1kwh corresponds to 0.5233 kg of CO2 insignificant impacts on a global scale (and climate (equivalent) (source NEA) change is a global scale issue), it also recognises the fact that any given business including its own has an SBR monthly average electricity consumption is 180,000 important role to play in doing the right thing by KWh reducing its Green House significantly Therefore SBR monthly carbon emission is 0.5233 x 180,000 Gas Emissions. But most importantly to = 94,194 kg CO2e actively promote, share and showcase how it does so in order to inspire many other businesses to do And for one year: 94,194 X 12 = 1,130,328 kg CO2e or the same, especially in its own line of business: the 1,130.328 tonne of CO2e hospitality and leisure sector which is a global significant contributor. SBR annual estimated carbon footprint: 1130 tonne of CO2e Numerous efforts have been done at SBR to cut down atmospheric emissions. Some related to (This value is only an estimate based on electricity energy management while others are consumption; it does include external operations, supply more towards a passive approach. chains and transport) The below section provides an evaluation of SBR’s Furthermore, the above amount should be significantly emissions based on energy use at the resort: reduced once taken into account the trees “ present on site. ” SBR annual carbon footprint: Siloso Beach Resort Corporate Sustainability Report 2012 127 Siloso Beach Resort SBR Dense Foliage Blending Life and Leisure with Nature Environment Elements of canopy at SBR Due to its extent of vegetal coverage , SBR benefits from an excellent air quality environment Siloso Beach Resort Corporate Sustainability Report 2012 128 EN17 Other relevant indirect greenhouse Siloso Beach Resort gas emissions by weight Blending Life and Leisure with Nature Environment The main source of GHG emissions at SBR is primarily from electricity consumption Our gardening which originated from the combustion of natural gas. activities account for a very small In addition to this primary consumption, several amount of smaller and irregular activities are also contributing but to a much smaller extent. While aware of these emissions sources, SBR is still in the process of gaining a more precise understanding of the emissions involved EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas from these sources. emissions and reductions achieved. Other indirect GHG sources: •Tree preservation and planting (passive Gardening activities: May involve from time to time approach): preserving trees on site, has also in the process the usage of machineries which burn fuel, significantly contributed to offset emissions on site. Indeed, these include: preserving the trees also preserves the carbon stored within the trees as well as the carbon dioxide removal -Land-mowers potential of these trees. While it is very difficult to evaluate -Chainsaws how much carbon emissions is saved through this means, It -Various other cutting machines -Emergency generator is significant. SBR has preserved over 200 trees on its site and additionally planted another 450. Fumigating (mosquito control) •Good design (passive approach) :Due to the energy The chemicals are sprayed through a blowing efficient design of the buildings, SBR energy use is machine which consumes fuel. significantly reduced which translates to significant reduction in atmospheric emissions. Transports: SBR operates two small buses to transport its guests to and from the resort. The trips involved are however short (about 4 km) and •Active approach: SBR has numerous initiatives to therefore the emissions involved through this mean reduce its energy consumption through the use of new relatively small. energy efficient technologies. The reduction in energy usage translates to reduction in atmospheric SBR 12 seater van emissions emissions. Emission factor: 2.68 kg CO2/L of diesel Litres of fuel from June 2010 to June 2011: 9051 L Annual CO2 emissions: 24256.68 kg of C02 The annual emissions from our 12 seater van is 26.7 tons of CO2 SBR 30 seater van emissions Emission factor: 2.68 kg CO2/L of diesel Litres of fuel from June 2010 to June 2011: Our newest 30 seat van is 4084.5 L much more environmentally Annual CO2 emissions: 10946.46 kg of CO2 The annual emissions from our 30 seater van is friendly than our older 12 seat 12.1 tons of CO2 bus Siloso Beach Resort Corporate Sustainability Report 2012 129 Siloso Beach Resort SBR transport data Blending Life and Leisure with Nature Environment Siloso Beach Resort Corporate Sustainability Report 2012 130 EN19 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances by weight. Siloso Beach Resort Blending Life and Leisure with Nature Environment SBR has a policy in place to avoid the usage of ozone depleting substances. As such, very few if any are actually used on site. These substances may only be contained in: •Coolants in fridges •Sprays of various sorts SBR is free of any CFC’s Small amounts of HCFC’s are HCFC’s are present in small amounts and within government regulations. contained in our fridges and cold rooms in refrigerants liquids Emissions by weight: insignificant EN20 NO, SO, and other significant air emissions by type and weight. The only SBR related activities that involve some of these substances are transportation and gardening. Values have not been directly measured but are very low considering the amount of transport and gardening requiring machineries involved. Insignificant amounts of SOx and NOx originate from gardening machineries At SBR atmospheric emissions of either ozone depleting substances or Nitrous or Sulfuric oxides are: Very small amount of SOx and NOx come from our bus exhausts (our bus trips only cover small distances) Siloso Beach Resort Corporate Sustainability Report 2012 131 Ozone:The Forgotten Threats Siloso Beach Resort Blending Life and Leisure with Nature SBR Opinion Why we do not use any ozone The ozone layer plays a crucial role on Earth by blocking a depleting substances at SBR or in certain wavelength of hazardous radiations, such as UVBs. our supply chain Without the ozone layer, life on Earth could simply not exist The causes and response (This article was first published in ecobusiness.com as part of SBR sustainability After numerous studies and investigations, scientists outreach program) determined that human activities were the direct cause of ozone layer depletion. They identified a number of ozone Significant improvements have been made to slow depleting substances (ODS), including chlorofluorocarbons the trend of ozone depletion, yet the problem is (CFCs), Halons and Freons, which were widely used in the still with us and we cannot afford to ignore it. chemical industry and in refrigerator coolants and sprays. The solution to the ozone crisis was to ban certain chemicals Awareness of the ozone problem has completely and to replace them with less damaging alternative options. lost momentum and seems to have been forgotten The Montreal Protocol has mostly succeeded in doing this by by the media. Indeed, we often talk about the banning the production of the most harmful ODS. ozone problem as if it were a thing of the past – a This response has averted the catastrophic ozone depletion problem solved. Unfortunately that is not true; the we would otherwise be facing today. reality is that, while the causes have been identified and international measures taken to The current situation limit the trend, ozone related problems and their very real consequences are still present today. The global community has limited the spread of ozone depletion; however, it has not completely stopped the The problems trend. Indeed, two points need to be highlighted: ODS stays in the atmosphere for a very long time. Therefore, There are three distinct problems with ozone whatever we added in the past (and still do today to a lesser which often lead to confusion: extent) will remain there for decades, or centuries depending on the substances, and will continue to drive The ozone hole: refers to a periodic, near-total ozone depletion for many more years; depletion of the ozone layer in the upper atmosphere. This depletion occurs every year While CFCs were banned in most countries (some still use during springtime over the poles, particularly the them), the main replacements – hydrochlorofluorocarbons – South Pole, and their surroundings; also contribute to ozone depletion, although to a lesser extent. Therefore, we have in fact only significantly slowed Global depletion of the ozone layer: refers to a down the trend without really fixing the problem. slow global thinning of the ozone layer (to a much The ozone problem is still very present. In fact, scientists lesser degree than the ozone hole); recorded the largest ozone hole on record in 2006. Ground level ozone pollution: is often associated The uncertainties and concerns with smog events in urban areas. Ground level ozone forms in a very different way and has Currently, scientists predict the ozone hole will only recover nothing to do with the ozone layer in the upper to pre-industrial levels around the year 2065. atmospheric ozone. Indeed, recent studies indicate that certain parts of the Of the three issues above, the ozone hole has Earth, including major cities, are experiencing dangerous been the focus of the most attention since its levels of UVBs resulting from global thinning of the ozone discovery in 1985 during routine atmospheric layer and the spread of the ozone hole. Higher exposure to studies in Antarctica. News quickly spread this harmful radiation brings significantly higher risks of skin throughout the world scientific community, which cancer and other chronic illnesses. soon identified the ozone hole as a serious global threat requiring an immediate response to avoid a Furthermore, while the most harmful ozone depleting dramatic deterioration of our atmosphere substances have been banned, other ODS substances that protective layer. are not covered by the Montreal Protocol are on the rise, particularly Nitrous Oxides (NOx). Siloso Beach Resort Corporate Sustainability Report 2012 132 As with climate change predictions, current ozone Siloso Beach Resort models do not truly take into consideration the effects of social trends, such as global population Blending Life and Leisure with Nature SBR Opinion growth and the resulting exponential increases in consumerism and chemical activities. As such, current recovery estimates may well be faulty, particularly given the fact that we still do not fully understand the relationship between climate change and ozone depletion. It may well take much longer than anticipated to resolve the ozone problems, which may in fact worsen with trends in society developments. Meanwhile, for the next 50 to 100 years, harmful effects from damage to the ozone layer – a global health concern – will continue to occur. Moreover, the ozone layer may face new threats from the rising development of space tourism and the booming aviation sector. The world narrowly averted a similar risk a few decades ago when plans for the deployment of a large scale fleet of supersonic flights, in the form of the Concorde programme, were scrapped. Such activity would have been disastrous to the ozone layer as these planes fly right through it and drive depletion as a side effect of engine combustion. The key message here is that our atmosphere is fragile, and we cannot afford to destroy it. The ozone problem, followed by the climate change crisis, was our first major warning. Yet we do not seem to have fully learnt the lessons from these on-going threats. We must raise awareness of the continued urgency of the problem, and tread with care in future developments that directly impact our atmosphere. Article by Sylvain Richer de Forges “ ’ ’ ” ” ” Siloso Beach Resort Corporate Sustainability Report 2012 133 EN21 Total water discharge by quality and Siloso Beach Resort destination. Blending Life and Leisure with Nature Environment Total amount of water discharge for 2011: 31450 cubic meters (based on estimates EN22 Total weight of waste by type and from employee and guest water usage). disposal method. All of our discharged water comes from the A large portion of the waste at SBR is recycled, public water supply, and goes back to the public especially from the housekeeping and food and water treatment. Almost all of the water used is beverage departments, which recycle many plastic discharged through guest activities like drinking bottles, tin cans, and cardboard containers. showering and flushing of toilets. A very small As SBR does not produce any hazardous wastes, percentage (less then 1%) of our water 100% of the waste that is not reused or recycled is withdrawn is consumed as drinking water by our collected and sent for incineration (as Singapore is guests or used by our housekeeping staff for land-scarce, the default method of disposal is general cleaning and evaporates. incineration). We are constantly improving our monitoring systems, and plan to provide more Our other sources of water, such as spring water information about the amount of total waste and rain water, are not discharged, but rather the produced in subsequent sustainability reports. excess is used for gardening purposes by SBR and Sentosa. Food waste is also entirely recycled, through either a food waste decomposer machine or vermicomposting (using earthworms). We also recycle some of our cardboard through the vermicomposting process. In total for 2011, the amount of waste recycled through the food waste decomposer and vermicomposting systems: 17.242 tonnes. Food Waste Collected for Food Waste Decomposer from 2010 to 2011 2200 2000 1800 1600 KG 1400 1200 1000 800 600 400 Jan-10 Feb-10 Mar-10 Apr-10 May-10 Jun-10 Jul-10 Aug-10 Sep-10 Oct-10 Nov-10 Dec-10 Jan-11 Feb-11 Mar-11 Apr-11 May-11 Jun-11 Jul-11 Aug-11 Sep-11 Oct-11 Nov-11 Dec-11 MONTHS Siloso Beach Resort Corporate Sustainability Report 2012 134 Siloso Beach Resort Blending Life and Leisure with Nature Environment Cardboard Recycled Food Waste Collected for through Vermicomposting Vermicomposting 250 450 400 200 350 300 150 250 KG KG 200 100 150 50 100 50 0 0 Nov-11 Dec-11 Jan-12 Feb-12 Mar-12 Apr-12 May-12 Jun-11 Jul-11 Aug-11 Sep-11 Oct-11 Nov-11 Dec-11 Jan-12 Feb-12 Mar-12 Apr-12 May-12 “ “ ” ’ ” Siloso Beach Resort Corporate Sustainability Report 2012 135 Time for a rethink of Siloso Beach Resort Blending Life and Leisure with Nature mining exploitation? SBR Opinion But the greatest threats of mining activities by far are the Why at SBR we think that it is destruction and contamination of bio-diverse locations which are driving the extinction of species. Indeed, many important to recycle mining activities take place in biodiversity rich areas. (This article was first published in Governments ecobusiness.com as part of SBR sustainability outreach program) Those governments which allow mining companies to destroy sensitive environments within their jurisdictions are also responsible. Governments are the only authorities The demand for metals and other resources which can control and, in some cases, deny exploitation in continues to rise exponentially with devastating areas which have been assessed as sensitive from an environmental impacts. While it’s easy to point environmental point of view. the finger at mining companies, the real ethical questions surrounding the exploitation of natural People need to hold their elected officials responsible for resources are much more complex. Their protecting such areas, which have better long term value as solutions require us to deeply rethink our societal eco-tourism destinations or other uses, from the irreversible models. damage that can occur from short term exploitation. It is a simple fact that the world’s expanding Trends and new threats population and exponentially rising consumerism is pushing up demand for natural resources While environmental impacts of mining activities have long tremendously. Such a rise in demand requires been known, if not acted upon, new significant threats are more resources to be extracted from the ground starting to emerge. with often significant environmental impacts, particularly in biodiversity rich areas. Because the demand for resources is growing and their price (especially metals) is also rising, mining companies are now The roots of the problem looking at operations in areas which have long been Society considered too expensive or difficult to exploit. These remote sites include lands in the Arctic zones below the While clearly mining companies are directly permafrost and deep-sea beds. responsible for the negative impacts of extraction, these companies exploit resources because society Of particular concern is the large scale exploitation on ocean demands that they provide raw materials for a floor mountain formations called seamounts, spurred by multitude of uses that are part of our daily lives. recent discoveries of certain rare and valuable resources including cobalt and nickel. Who in this new century would deny they conveniently make use of metals and minerals in Seamounts are also extremely rich in biodiversity with a very the cars that we drive, the computers that provide strong endemism, and the mining of the ocean formation our daily work tools, the factories that make our should be considered with care. Exploitation of its resources goods and the buildings where we work and live? will have devastating impacts on rare marine life forms Metals and minerals are simply everywhere which are yet to be studied and discovered. around us and we often forget their true costs and origins. The bottom line is that as consumers, we are all responsible for mining exploitation. The extracting companies Having said that, we still need to hold the mining industry accountable for the widespread unsustainable practices in use today. Numerous mining corporations are directly responsible for significant environmental damages, which include deforestation as well as physical degradation and chemical pollution. Siloso Beach Resort Corporate Sustainability Report 2012 136 The solutions Siloso Beach Resort While many measures have been put in place to Blending Life and Leisure with Nature SBR Opinion limit the impacts of the mining industry, with varying levels of success, the new threats The philosophy behind this is acceptance of the fact that it described above should raise deep concerns about is not possible to both exploit physical resources and preserve the effects of mineral exploitation on biodiversity. living organisms on the same site. Current efforts to do just that are failing. Recycling This idea might seem extreme, but if we analyse the problem While metals and minerals recycling already takes as a whole with an understanding of how conservation efforts place in many parts of the world, the overall work, the idea could show more promise than current effectiveness is still relatively low. practices. To relieve the pressure to extract new resources Article by Sylvain Richer de Forges from the ground, we should vastly improve systems for recirculating used metals and minerals. This would require improving collection, treatment and recirculation of these items in sectors as diverse as construction, transport and consumer goods through the implementation of closed-loop systems, take-back policies and trading mechanisms. However, recycling alone will not suffice. Protecting the most sensitive areas One controversial alternative would be to designate small exploitation zones, near biodiversity sensitive sites, to be sacrificed under tight monitoring and within strict boundaries to better preserve larger areas nearby. Siloso Beach Resort Corporate Sustainability Report 2012 137 At SBR we have a unique approach to promote recycling by linking the end Siloso Beach Resort Blending Life and Leisure with Nature Environment product to the source. Below are some of the panels that we developed and display Siloso Beach Resort Corporate Sustainability Report 2012 138 EN23 Total number and volume of Siloso Beach Resort significant spills. Blending Life and Leisure with Nature Environment To date, SBR did not have any instances of spills whatsoever. EN25 Identity, size, protected status, and biodiversity value of water bodies and related No Spills to date and SBR intends to keep habitats significantly affected by the reporting it this way organization’s discharges of water and runoff . EN24 Weight of transported, imported, No water body is directly affected by exported, or treated waste deemed SBR’s water runoff. hazardous under the terms of the Basel Convention Annex I, II, III, and VIII, and Water runoff goes to the Sentosa drain which then percentage of transported waste shipped flows to treatment facilities. internationally. SBR actually has a positive impact in water SBR does not have, produce or use any conservation through two activities. waste that is considered hazardous under the Basel convention. •SBR has constructed numerous ponds throughout the resort which bring biodiversity back to these As a hotel environment, hazardous waste areas. are very limited. •SBR has set up a main pond nearby its resort where Cleaning products used are selected to be the overflow of the spring goes. This pond has environmentally friendly. created a natural habitat for various species of insects fish and frogs. “ ” Siloso Beach Resort Corporate Sustainability Report 2012 139 Waste management Siloso Beach Resort Blending Life and Leisure with Nature Metals recycling Stone table At SBR we make use of waste in Recycling bins for the guests any way we can Cartons recycling Stairs made from reused In-room messages railway wood All guest rooms equipped with soap and shampoo dispensers And much more… Siloso Beach Resort Corporate Sustainability Report 2012 140 Siloso Beach Resort Waste management Blending Life and Leisure with Nature Making use of recycled materials At SBR many of the items are actually from 100% recycled origin or simply from unwanted sources. A few of these items include: A large portion of the outdoor steps are from reused timbers from a railway trail in Australia Outdoor stairs from railways wood All the corridors and a large If we could we would do more… portion of walkways are However there are layered with rubber mats limitations to the which are 100% recycled amount of recycled items that can be used in core construction under current Singapore law The children playground comprises items which are have been reused from an unwanted source And much more… … Siloso Beach Resort Corporate Sustainability Report 2012 141 Waste management Siloso Beach Resort Blending Life and Leisure with Nature F&B no wastage policy At SBR there are absolutely no wastage from our F&B department. There are two distinct waste management paths: 1. Food decomposer: This technology decomposes all organic waste to liquid within 24h which goes back to the public water treatment 2. Worm-Composting closed loop: Food Waste About 5KG of Earthworms vegetable and fruit Food waste gets waste is collected eaten by our 40,000 daily for earthworms, and vermicomposting turned into castings No Wastage O% Restaurant Vegetables Castings are fertilizer Vegetables from for vegetables free of farm supply about pesticides and 20% of event needs chemical fertilizers Siloso Beach Resort Corporate Sustainability Report 2012 142 SBR Worm Composting Data Siloso Beach Resort Blending Life and Leisure with Nature & Progress Indicators Environment NUMBER OF WORMS AND TRAYS 45 Number of Worm Trays (Each 40 tray contains about 15kg of TRAY/WORMS ( 1,000) 35 earthwom bedding) 30 25 20 Number of Worms (by 15 1,000s) 10 5 0 5/31/11 6/30/11 7/31/11 8/31/11 9/30/11 10/31/11 11/30/11 12/31/11 1/31/12 MONTHS FOOD WASTE COLLECTED FOR VERMICOMPOSING 120 100 80 KG 60 40 20 0 O – Sustainable Farming Jun-11 Jul-11 Aug-11 Sep-11 Oct-11 Nov-11 Dec-11 Jan-12 Feb-12 MONTHS WORM CASTINGS (ORGANIC FERTILIZER) COLLECTED 100 90 80 70 60 KG 50 40 30 20 10 0 Jun-11 Jul-11 Aug-11 Sep-11 Oct-11 Nov-11 Dec-11 Jan-12 Feb-12 MONTHS Siloso Beach Resort Corporate Sustainability Report 2012 143 So why are we experimenting with sustainable food production methods at Siloso Beach Resort SBR? Blending Life and Leisure with Nature SBR Opinion Food security through sustainability: life and eating habits, major changes and sacrifices will unconditionally have to be made. an urgent need for change Generally speaking, agriculture and fisheries have been the (This article was first published in ecobusiness.com causes of serious environmental impacts since the industrial as part of SBR environmental outreach program) revolution and the need for mass food production. However, while ecosystems have long been able to cope and buffer While we have been relying on the same food the pressures, we are reaching a tipping point. An imminent practices since the invention of agriculture significant change of practices is required to avoid a coming thousands of years ago, in the 21st century the great instability in global food industry. world needs to deeply rethink these practices and to find new ways of feeding the planet while Un-sustainability in the current practices maintaining our food cultural heritage and without continuing to seriously impact the environment in The reality is that traditional agricultural and fisheries the process; It is without doubt a serious practices, still widely used today, are simply unsustainable challenge! and no longer meet the requirements of a fast changing world. Three points are pressing the urgency for change: “Food” or “way of life” security? The world population is quickly increasing and expected to We often talk about food security issues focusing on exceed 9 billion by 2050 (some studies actually now forecast whether the Earth’s resources can be sufficient to 11 billion!), as a result the increase in demand for food in the feed a growing population. This is actually the coming decades will be tremendous; wrong question as the answer is clearly YES: there are sufficient food resources on the planet to feed Many natural food supplies are diminishing fast and the current population and in fact many more. numerous ecosystems are on the verge of collapse due to overexploitation of their living resources and associated The real question is whether many countries impacts; (especially developed nations) can continue to sustain their way of life in food habits while dealing Furthermore, climate change is becoming a very serious with a rapidly increasing population and mounting threat to global food security by altering weather patterns environmental pressures? The answer to the latest around the globe. Additionally, it will significantly reduce the is clearly NO. surface areas of cultivable lands around the world through the impacts of sea level rise and salt water infiltration. Indeed, we can easily feed people just for the sake of feeding them (i.e. producing food that provides In addition to the above, there are many issues with current sufficient nutrients to keep people alive). For food industry practices which make them unsustainable: instance many nutritious food supplies abundantly Extensive use of pesticides and fertilizers for land agriculture available are to date virtually unexploited (e.g. (which we should not forget are petroleum derivatives); deriving energetic food from insects which are very Overexploitation of resources (especially fisheries); Nonrich in protein and vitamins). However, while such respect of food chains and natural food cycles; Un-ethical practices could be seen as a life saver to feed practices through aspects such as excessive and uncontrolled populations in desperate need or in disaster use of genetic engineering; reconversion of land and affected areas, it raises serious ethical questions. associated deforestation… The reality is that most societies are quite Many of these practices are responsible not only for ununderstandably not ready, nor willing to adopt such sustainable practices but also for a range of serious practices. Food habits are deeply embedded within environmental impacts. nation’s cultural heritage and the appreciation of “good” food is actually one of the joys of life. Many would agree that living while feeding on concentrated pills is not really an aspired way of life! However, if we do not want to have to get to such extreme practices of science fiction proportions one day, we must not forget the current trends. In order to maintain our way of Siloso Beach Resort Corporate Sustainability Report 2012 144 The solutions Siloso Beach Resort In order to sustain in the long term we have to Blending Life and Leisure with Nature SBR Opinion apply more sustainable practices at all level of the food industry: Demography control: The main problem with food security is that there are too many people to feed and the trend is worsening fast. Demography control seems inevitable and a first priority. It is a simple fact that current Respect Food chains: A greater respect and food production practices will not be able to meet the needs of nations for understanding of food chains through integrated much longer without dramatic degradation of our environment. It is also cultures is the way to go for food production of clear that with growing population numbers, quantity will be increasingly the future. We need to produce food in large favoured over quality for the food that we eat. quantities through close loop systems. In order to It is apparent that the way forward is not a question of food security on one achieve this we must put greater emphasis on end and sustainable development on the other, but rather to achieve food primary food producers such as microorganisms security through sustainability. whose by-products are then used to feed larger Real sustainability in all aspects should it be energy, pollution, fisheries or organisms which are then fed to live stocks). In agriculture come down to the same point: we need to maintain healthy recent years numerous small scale projects (e.g. ecosystems by working with nature, not against it. Should this concept aquaponic systems, integrated organic farming…) become accepted by decision makers and society in general, significant demonstrate that such practices are not just changes will eventually start to happen in a positive way. feasible but also financially viable. However, a lot Article by Sylvain Richer de Forges more research is required to scale up these efforts. Governments and the private sector should invest heavily in these areas; Put more emphasis on the oceans as primary food sources: Indeed, it is an energy reality: oceans cover more than 70% of the surface of the world, it therefore would make sense that the majority of our food should come from the oceans rather than from land; De-centralise food production: (i.e. produce food locally where needed). Businesses and individuals should start to produce part of their usage on site. Urban agriculture/aquaculture through vertical and integrated urban farming is the way to go to reduce the usage of land needed for food production purposes; Reduce the reliance on pesticides and fertilizers. Current food industry makes heavy use of chemicals to the point that it is a health hazard (latent toxicity). Through the adoption of integrated systems, we can not only come up At SBR we are doing with processes which are much better for the our part to find new environment but also much healthier byy significantly reducing the use of chemicals; avenues for “ food security with our rooftop integrated organic farming ” Siloso Beach Resort Corporate Sustainability Report 2012 145 PRODUCTS AND SERVICES Siloso Beach Resort Blending Life and Leisure with Nature Environment EN26 Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of products and services, and EN27 Percentage of products sold and their extent of impact packaging materials that are reclaimed by mitigation. category. Such initiatives are highlighted throughout the report. The table below tentatively summaries the SBR Eco Shop? main initiatives : To date SBR does not really sell products. It has plans to open a shop on its premises in the near Impacts Initiatives to reduce impact future. This shop would focus on selling ecological products of various sorts. Materials • Minimize Amenities, such as Use only providing toothbrush and Currently the only products sold that involve toothpaste upon request packaging are F&B items such as cans of soft drinks. • Extensive use of recycled wood for poolside furniture and various other areas. 100% of the packages (empty cans) or other Water • Extensive use of spring and rain packets are sent for recycling. Use water. • Water saving taps and showerheads in rooms, and In room products (shampoos, soap…) are only encouraging guests to change provided if requested by the guests. By doing so, towels/linens alternate day. wastage of packaging and products is significantly • Use of Waterless urinals reduced. Emissions • Controlled shuttle bus timings to reduce vehicle emissions. Effluents • Not a significant impact. Noise • Not a significant impact. Waste • Recycling of food waste through worm composting and food waste decomposer machine. • Extensive waste recycling program. Siloso Beach Resort Corporate Sustainability Report 2012 146 Combining a sustainably designed and Siloso Beach Resort maintained environment with messages is Blending Life and Leisure with Nature Environment our key formula Messaging is very present throughout the resort. Our newly introduced mascot concept allows to pass key messages to our guests including on aspects of recycling Our mascots. In this scene, our two characters explain the concept of water conservation Siloso Beach Resort Corporate Sustainability Report 2012 147 Siloso Beach Resort COMPLIANCE Blending Life and Leisure with Nature Environment SBR has always been compliant with TRANSPORT national regulations and has not received any fines for misconduct. EN29 Significant environmental impacts of SBR will continue to apply most stringent practices transporting products and other goods and when it comes to meeting regulatory requirements. materials used for the organization’s operations, many of the initiatives carried In fact and transporting members of the workforce. at SBR go far beyond the legal •Environmental impacts of transporting the workforce: requirements. This includes aspects such as energy efficient design, water management, energy SBR has 2 small buses in operation to transport both the management, waste management and more. hotel guests and the workforce. As the buses are only used over short distances (in and out of Sentosa island). Overall SBR has an holistic approach to sustainable the environmental impacts of transporting the workforce management and believes in test-bedding new are very minimal if not insignificant. practices and technologies in order to continuously improve. Having done this for many years now, it Impact Description has also put SBR a significant step ahead of government regulations. Atmospheric Emissions of carbon dioxide, Nox, and emissions Sox from the combustion of fossil fuels EN28 Monetary value of significant fines Oil leaks from Very minimal. The buses are new and and total number of non-monetary engine into the well maintained sanctions for noncompliance with environment environmental laws and regulations. •Environmental impacts of transporting products To date, SBR has never endured any fines or and other goods and materials used for the non-monetary sanctions of any kind for noncompliance with environmental laws and organization’s operations regulations. Monetary value is 0 SBR outsources the transport of goods to and from the SBR is a very responsible business and takes great resort. It is therefore out of its influence. However, SBR has policies in place for the selection of responsible care in applying the precautionary transporters that are fully compliant with transport safety principle. rules and regulations. Impact Description Potential (This has to date • Potential never occurred) spills of contamination of soil chemicals on the way to and water ways and from the hotel • Potential impact on wildlife Noise pollution from Very minimal engines Oil leak from engine to the Remains very minimal environment As a hotel environment, SBR is not involved in the transport of hazardous materials that can be of great risk to the environment. Overall transportation potential impacts are very minimal. Siloso Beach Resort Corporate Sustainability Report 2012 148 OVERALL Siloso Beach Resort EN30 Total environmental protection Blending Life and Leisure with Nature Environment expenditures and investments by type. Total Environmental Protection Expendatures in 2011 Waste Treatment $30,960.00 Emissons Treatment $0.00 Remediation Costs $0.00 Prevention $13,000.00 Environmental Management $57,000.00 Total Expendatures $100,960.00 0 20000 40000 60000 80000 100000 120000 Singapore Dollars Program Cost Type Normal Waste Disposal S$ 3000 Waste Disposal Vermicomposting System S$ 14400 Waste Disposal to deal with food waste Guest Environmental S$ 13,000 Prevention Educational Program Extra working activities S$ 32,000 Environmental dedicated to training and Management environmental management Investment in E-clean S$ 25,000 Environmental Technology for Chiller Management System Siloso Beach Resort Corporate Sustainability Report 2012 149 Human Rights Siloso Beach Resort Blending Life and Leisure with Nature Human Rights INVESTMENT AND PROCUREMENT PRACTICES HR1 Percentage and total number of HR3 Total hours of employee training on policies significant investment agreements and and procedures concerning aspects of human contracts that include clauses rights that are relevant to operations, including incorporating human rights concerns, or the percentage of employees trained. that have undergone human rights Total hours of employee training on policies and screening. procedures concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations: 48 hours per year As a small hotel business, SBR is not really involved in investment agreements. Proportion of employees trained: 100 %. All new hires To date no business agreement has been signed or are required to undertake a compulsory training which undertaken with organizations which have had includes aspects related to human rights throughout. human right issues. As SBR operates in Singapore, activities in the hospitality business are already very controlled by the government. Total number of agreements: 0 Percentage: 0% We only do business with responsible employers! HR2 Percentage of significant suppliers, contractors and other business partners that have undergone human rights screening, and actions taken. NON-DISCRIMINATION SBR has policies in place to make basic background HR4 Total number of incidents of discrimination checks on the ethical practices of its suppliers and and corrective actions taken. contractors. SBR only does business with like minded individuals Total number of incidents of discrimination: 0 and companies which share its principals with regards to sustainability including human rights. So far SBR did not have any incidents of To the best of our knowledge we never have or had any reports of our business partners which have discrimination and we intend to keep it been involved with human right screening and/or this way sanctions. Percentage: 0% Siloso Beach Resort Corporate Sustainability Report 2012 150 At night our resort offers a Siloso Beach Resort unique atmosphere Blending Life and Leisure with Nature Human Rights Usage of lights is carefully planned to procure both a comfortable resort feel and also to limit the usage of energy Siloso Beach Resort Corporate Sustainability Report 2012 151 FREEDOM OF ASSOCIATION AND Siloso Beach Resort COLLECTIVE BARGAINING Blending Life and Leisure with Nature Human Rights HR5 Operations and significant suppliers SBR has strict policies on the selection of suppliers which identified in which the right to exercise systematically include a basic background check including freedom of association and collective child labor risks. This screening is done for suppliers, bargaining may be violated or at especially for countries had involved in child labor. significant risk, and actions taken to support these rights. Measures taken to contribute to the effective abolition of child labor: Operations: At SBR, employees have a total right to SBR is not particularly involved in movements that promote exercise freedom of association and collective the abolition of child labor at this point in time. However, it bargaining through joining relevant trade unions or supports the cause of the abolition of child labor. associations. The management always takes great attention to what its employees SBR is a member of the UN Global Compact and has have to say and take feedbacks into pledged publicly not to practice or involve with companies consideration which in many instances has which are known to practice child labor. influenced the decision making process. FORCED AND COMPULSORY LABOR Suppliers: SBR has not identified any suppliers which would not meet the above. SBR is always HR7 Operations and suppliers identified the mindful to select suppliers which share its ethical significant risk for incidents of forced or and sustainability principles. compulsory labor, and measures to contribute to the elimination of all forms of forced or compulsory labor. SBR does not practice child labor nor does it practice forced labor and does not do business with companies which have such practices We actively showcase a children friendly hotel At SBR employees have a Environment to send the message that child has the rights voice and the right to express their of childhood and should not be working. thoughts CHILD LABOR Our hotel provides Various children HR6 Operations and suppliers identified the significant risk for incidents of child Friendly facilities labor, and measures taken to contribute to the effective abolition of child labor. SBR does not practice child labor! So far, SBR has not identified any supplier having potential risk for incidents of child labor. Siloso Beach Resort Corporate Sustainability Report 2012 152 SECURITY PRACTICES Siloso Beach Resort Blending Life and Leisure with Nature Human Rights HR8 Percentage of security personnel trained in the organization’s policies or procedures concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations. Proportion of security personnel trained: 100 %. All new security personnel including 3rd party security personnel hired are required to undertake a compulsory training which includes aspects related to human rights throughout. INDIGENOUS RIGHTS HR9 Total number of incidents of violations involving rights of indigenous people and actions taken. Our security personnel are Total number of incidents of violation: 0 well trained in human rights Singapore, as a relatively new country and multicultural issues and are requested to look out for society does not has a clear definition of “indigenous any infringements and report such people”. However, SBR has strict human rights policies which incident to the management respects all ethnical backgrounds and cultures. REMEDIATION ASSESSMENT HR11 Number of grievances related to human rights filed, addressed and HR10 Percentage and total number of operations resolved through formal grievance that have been subject to human rights reviews mechanisms. Labor Practices and Decent and/or impact assessments. Work. All of our departments have been subject to human rights SBR has taken various actions against the reviews and impact assessment. 100% Specific management guidelines cover aspects of human employees to fix issues related to resource and ethical behavior at work. These guidelines are misconduct, unprofessionalism and other followed by all departments and are an integral part of our internal matters over the years. However, management and new hires training process. none of these were related to human rights. Feedbacks are regularly collected from employees to assess satisfaction and human rights. Our employees have always been treated Recently we have stepped up our efforts by conducting an with respect and we did not have issues overall risk assessment of our resort including operations related to human rights. and departments . This assessment has identified various areas that we need to improve. Number of grievances related to human We are also in the process of implementing six sigma rights: 0 guidelines which will improve our management with respects to human rights. Some of the latest implemented measures include: -Raise of employees’ salaries -Implementation of various employee benefits which include dental care, health care, physical & sport activities -Employee development training -Attend seminars Siloso Beach Resort Corporate Sustainability Report 2012 153 EMPLOYMENT Siloso Beach Resort Blending Life and Leisure with Nature LA1 Total workforce by employment type, Employment employment contract, and region, broken down by gender Total workforce: 64 employees (as at June 2012) Female : 31 employees Male : 33 employees Employment type: Full time employee: 38 (60%) (21 female / 17 male) Part time employee: 26 (40%) (10 female / 16 male) Region: All our workforce is on a single site which is the island of Sentosa Our workforce can be SBR is a single site operated business. All of our workforce is actually at our hotel. described as: We have a relatively well sized workforce in the range of 60-100 employees which varies from time to time. Thebalance between men and women is well distributed with on Eco conscious average as many men as women. The numbers tend to change slightly with part timers intakes. We are also constantly having long term Interns. Attentive They are part of our workforce during the attachment. SBR is an equal opportunity employer We support: -Diversity -People in need -Fairness -Honesty -Responsibility Siloso Beach Resort Corporate Sustainability Report 2012 154 Siloso Beach Resort LA2 Rate of new employee hired and Blending Life and Leisure with Nature employee turnover by age group, gender, and Employment region. “ ” New Employees Hired Group Persons Rate Male 36 1.09 Female 21 0.67 Below 30 33 1.18 30-50 22 0.81 LA3 Benefits provided for full-time employees by Above 50 2 0.22 significant locations of operation. Employee Turnover •Leave entitlement •Medical Group Persons Rate •Public holidays Male 37 1.12 •Island partner card •Bonuses Female 34 1.10 •Special allowances . Below 30 32 1.14 30-50 29 1.07 Above 50 10 1.11 *All employees are in the same region/operation at Siloso Beach Resort “ ’ ” ” Siloso Beach Resort Corporate Sustainability Report 2012 155 LABOR/MANAGEMENT RELATIONS Siloso Beach Resort LA4 Percentage of employees covered by Blending Life and Leisure with Nature Employment collective bargaining agreements. SBR has created various employee committees LA6 Percentage of total workforce represented which aim to engage discussions with the in formal joint management–worker health and management and to advise. safety committees that help to monitor and advise on occupational health and safety Such committees include: programs. -The Sustainability Committee -The Health and Safety Committee SBR is active in participating with various groups looking for -The Human Resource Committee the improvement of workers health and safety. SBR -The Annual Review Committee regularly sends representative staff to attend such training which include: These committees are composed of department -Fire safety training managers and cover about 20% of the -CPR and AED training workforce -Risk assessment Percentage of total workforce: 5% LA5 Minimum notice period(s) on operational changes, including whether it Only staff that are most relevant in applying these skills to improve the safety of others are sent for training. is specified in collective agreements. LA8 Education, training, counselling, prevention, While some decisions are made by the and risk-control programs in place to assist management, a significant portion of all workforce members, their families, or decisions made for SBR will involve employee consultation committees and a feedback community members regarding serious diseases. collection. In 2012 SBR has put into place a free and This process of engaging employees collective compulsory health screening program for bargaining usually takes 2 weeks to 2 months. all of its employees. This screening process also aims to raise awareness on a range of common illnesses and chronic diseases (SBR does not have any occupational OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND activities that are related to a high incidence of SAFETY occupational disease). During this screening, health professionals come on site to conduct a series of tests and LA7 Rates of injury, occupational diseases, to educate the staff on health related topics. lost days, absenteeism, and number of work related fatalities by region and Our health screening gender. program combined with our employee health We abide by the Singapore national laws in recording and reporting accident statistics, which package provides a good follow the recommendations of the International medical coverage Labor Organization. Lost Days** on Medical/Hospit Occupational Year Number of Staff* Gender alization Leave Injury Rate Disease Rate Lost Day Rate 2010 3 (no fatalities) Male 54 5.555556 0 100 2011 1 (no fatalities) Male 10 1.851852 0 18.51852 * Not including minor injuries. No independent contractors were injured or suffered from occupational disease. ** Lost Days refers to scheduled working days and is counted when more than half of a working day is lost. Siloso Beach Resort Corporate Sustainability Report 2012 156 Siloso Beach Resort Assistance Programs regarding Blending Life and Leisure with Nature Serious Diseases Employment Education/Training Counselling Prevention/Risk Treatment Control Program Recipients Yes No Yes No Yes No Yes No Workers X X X X Worker’s Families X X X X Community X X X X Members LA9 Health and safety topics covered in LA11 Programs for skills management formal agreements with trade unions and lifelong learning that support the continued employability of employees SBR does not have any formal health and safety and assist them in managing career agreements with trade unions. Health and safety endings is very important to SBR, which is why we are BizSAFE Level 3 (SBR has recently obtained In addition, numerous opportunities are this local health and safety endorsement). offered to the staff to attend training programs and educational talks which varies TRAINING AND EDUCATION depending on what opportunities for learning come available (conferences, trade shows., LA10 Average hours of training per year workshops…) In Singapore the CPF fund , for per employee by gender, and by employee which SBR contributes, is a main mean for category employees to manage their career ending All of our employees are required to undertake a 2 LA12 Percentage of employees day compulsory training upon joining the receiving regular performance and organization. In addition every employee has 1-2 days of additional training every year regardless career development reviews, by gender of gender or employee category. All our employees receive performance and career development reviews once a year. Category Average Hours of Training per year for 2011 – 100% (males and females) Senior Management 40 hours At SBR we offer Managers/Executives 40 hours our staff a range of Staff 28 hours options to improve Males 30.9 hours their skills Females 31.5 hours* throughout the duration of their *The reason that females have slightly higher employment with average hours or training, is that there are slightly more females in the Managers/Executives us category. Siloso Beach Resort Corporate Sustainability Report 2012 157 DIVERSITY AND EQUAL OPPORTUNITY Siloso Beach Resort Blending Life and Leisure with Nature Employment LA13 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per employee category according to gender, age group, minority group membership, and other indicators of diversity. Composition of Nationality Above 50 years 30-40 years Male Female Governance Body: 100% Singaporean 33% 67% 67% 33% Employee Minority Groups / Country of origin Thai Indian 15 Taiwanese 1 Myanmar 1 5 1 Chinese Filipino 23 American 11 17 French Malaysian 7 Singaporean Indian 2 2 Singaporean Malay 11 Singaporean Chinese “ ’ ” “ ’ ” Siloso Beach Resort Corporate Sustainability Report 2012 158 Case study : Why should Siloso Beach Resort Blending Life and Leisure with Nature organizations practice CSR and give 2 back to society? “ 1 “ ’ ” ” 3 ” ” “ 4 ” 5 “ ” “ 6 7 ” ” ” 8 “ 9 ” ” 10 “ ’ ” ” “The private sector is the only hope of a faster change” Siloso Beach Resort Corporate Sustainability Report 2012 159 SBR puts a lot of efforts into CSR, here are Siloso Beach Resort some reasons why: Blending Life and Leisure with Nature SBR Opinion Putting CSR and sustainability at the Redefining CSR heart of a business SBR has taken this message to heart: its CSR efforts extend (This article was first published in ecobusiness.com far beyond the portal. The resort has redefined the concepts as part of SBR sustainability outreach program) of sustainability and environmental preservation from the beginning. As the first TUV Rheinland Eco-certified hotel in The role of the private sector is crucial in driving a Southeast Asia, the hotel served as the model for the much needed “green revolution”. The response development of Singapore’s SEC Eco-Hotel Certification time of governments around the world at dealing Scheme and was the winner of the Singapore Environmental with global environmental issues is slow, and they Achievement Award (SEAA) 2010/2011. struggle to implement even basic changes. Businesses are in a far better position. In fact, they Their environmentally sustainable business model spans all are the only hope of driving real change quickly. If aspects of managing the Eco-Resort and provides ambitious we wait for governments to react it will be too late. conservation targets. The facility serves as a test-bed of new This is the story of one business that took a simple environmentally friendly technologies as well as a showcase corporate social responsibility (CSR) project and of best sustainable practices. turned it into a national scale programme that reverberates across national boundaries and One of the fundamental principles of SBR is to maintain multiple sectors. harmony with nature and protect biodiversity. It does this by developing land with minimum disruption to the existing Biodiversity Portal of Singapore terrain and facilitating the growth of over 600 trees native to Sentosa Island. Throughout the resort, trees are literally Recently, Siloso Beach Resort (SBR) sponsored the incorporated within the infrastructure. development of the Biodiversity Portal of Singapore, which it plans to manage in collaboration The extensive tree cover, coupled with numerous energy with a range of institutions both in Singapore and saving technologies and one of Singapore’s largest surface internationally. The CSR project was developed areas of insulating rooftop garden, dramatically reduces the during the International Year of Biodiversity in 2010 resort’s energy needs. This same innovative approach to to raise awareness of the intensifying trend of the sustainability is applied to water use and to the restaurant’s extinction of species on Earth. food sourcing. The portal was conceptualized and developed based Sharing the message on a book (written by the author of this article): “The Biodiversity of Life on Earth: from Heritage to Throughout the restaurant, a unique photography gallery Extinction”. More than merely a unique educational showcasing numerous pictures of wildlife, taken both within platform on biodiversity, the website was the resort and externally, intends to showcase biodiversity specifically designed to serve as a hub for and to stir an interest in conservation. In addition, SBR individuals and organisations willing to learn and act conducts regular onsite Eco Tours to various stakeholder on the subject both locally and internationally. groups and guests to share the message of sustainability. The resort feels that its achievements and commitments to Biodiversity loss has been identified as one of the preserve the environment should not be limited to within four main important challenges that mankind must the resort. For this reason the resort has a strong CSR face during the 21st century, along with access to programme that regularly contributes to meaningful clean water, poverty and climate change. In a world initiatives. where environmental issues are reaching a critical point that requires immediate action on a global I would encourage many other businesses to take the same scale, there is need for a new wave of educational path and challenge both themselves and society. We must and action initiatives. Indeed, too often the key keep in mind that extinction of species is dramatic, forever message still does not seem to reach the public. and irreversible! While the message from the scientific community has been clear for a long time, we are still a long Article by Sylvain Richer de Forges way from meaningful and significant change. However, time is running out fast. Most scientists have warned that we are reaching the point of no return. Citing Donella Meadows, “we have exactly enough time…starting now!” Siloso Beach Resort Corporate Sustainability Report 2012 160 DIVERSITY AND EQUAL OPPORTUNITY Siloso Beach Resort Blending Life and Leisure with Nature Employment EQUAL RENUMERATION FOR WOMEN AND MEN We do purposefully create plans on how to engage our stakeholders, and use stakeholder mapping to assess which stakeholders would be most impacted and LA14 Ratio of basic salary and interested in our activities. remuneration of women to men by employee category, by significant Community engagement: SBR has put into place a range of programs which intend to engage our staff with the department of operation. community. SBR is an equal opportunity employer. The Such programs include helping community groups in salary ratio of women/men is 1. need such as the St Andrew’s Autism center or the older workers. We encourage our staff to participate in such At equal carrier level and background, women and social movements and offer rewards for those who do. men can expect the same salary range and the same level of consideration and attention. Impact assessment: SBR has recently conducted an in depth assessment of its operations and a range of LA15 Return to work and retention rates surveys both internal and external to gain a better after parental leave by gender. understanding of the impacts of its various programs and guests satisfaction. SBR also engages in Employees entitled to parental leave / took parental leave / returned to work after SBR is currently implementing a six sigma program as parental leave ended / are still employed 12 well as various customer centric management months after leave ended: initiatives. Female: 1, Male: 0 retention and return to work rate = 100% SBR supports Society LOCAL COMMUNITY & participates SO1 Percentage of operations with in various implemented local community community engagement, impact assessments, initiatives and development programs. 100% of our operations are implemented with Development programs: such community engagement, impact assessments, and development programs. SBR is actively participating to various community development programs. Such programs include the An initial impact assessment of potential sponsorship of university scholarships, schools construction damage to trees and terrain was educational programs, the make a wish foundation and conducted (this was for internal use as has not been publically disclosed). We have a sustainability many others… committee and a Health and Safety Committee which deal with the relevant environmental and social impacts. We engage with the community for feedback on any grievances, however as an SME located in a primarily tourist destination, we have not found it necessary to establish formal community consultation committees or formal local community grievance processes. Siloso Beach Resort Corporate Sustainability Report 2012 161 CORRUPTION Siloso Beach Resort Blending Life and Leisure with Nature Employment SO2 Percentage and total number of business units analysed for risks related to corruption. •Singapore Tourism Board SBR is active in participating in meetings with the 100% (one business unit) All Singapore Tourism Board that intend to shape the future departments are required to strictly follow the of tourism in Singapore. anti corruption guidelines. Managers of all departments are instructed to screen and report •Sentosa Island Partners on any suspicion of corruption to the management. As an island partner, SBR actively participates in various meetings and discussions that intend to shape the future In Singapore, corruption is controlled and developments of Sentosa island. severally punished, therefore the occurrence of corruption is very low. Influencing: In addition to this, we feel that our main contribution is to actively promote the concept of SO3 Percentage of employees adopting sustainability within the hotel industry and we hope that sharing best practices will influence decisions trained in organization’s antimakers in imposing more stringent standards in the field. corruption policies and procedures. SO6 Total value of financial and in-kind All employees are trained on corruption matters and company policies during the general contributions to political parties, employee training upon commencement of politicians, and related institutions by employment at SBR. country. SO4 Actions taken in response to SBR has to date not given direct financial contributions incidents of corruption. to political institutions. We have however provided numerous in-kind contributions mostly SBR takes corruption matters very seriously and in the form of sponsorships of events and providing free has not had any case of corruption to date. or discounted venues and accommodations for political related events; Any instance of corruption involving the staff would be subject to immediate action which •Sponsorship of accommodation for Jose Ramos Horta, could lead to dismissal from the company former President of Timor Leste without compensation. •Providing venues for the Ministry of the Environment Employees are made aware of the strict policy and Water Resources during their general employment training. •Providing venue for the National Environment Agency SO5 SBR Public Policies Involvement •Sponsorship of event for the National Environment Some of our recent involvements include: Agency •Singapore Eco Hotel Certification Scheme •Hosted PS21 event for the National Environment Agency SBR was a key contributor in the development of (providing venue for over 60 delegates) Singapore’s Eco Hotel certification scheme. SBR served as the case study to develop this scheme •Host for various events and venues for the Singapore and was subsequently the first hotel to be Environment Council certified under this newly implemented scheme by the Singapore Environment Council. Siloso Beach Resort Corporate Sustainability Report 2012 162 Siloso Beach Resort Blending Life and Leisure with Nature Public Policies ANTI-COMPETITIVE BEHAVIOR SO7 Total number of legal actions for anticompetitive behaviour, anti-trust, SO9 Operations with significant and monopoly practices and their potential or actual negative impacts on outcomes. local communities. As a single operated business on the island of no legal actions have To date, Sentosa (considered a leisure and entertainment been taken against SBR for such hub), SBR does not have significant negative matters. impacts on local communities. SBR is not a very competitive business. Our On the contrary, SBR has a positive impact by primary aim is not to be competitive but to providing leisure services while operating its sustain the business while providing good business in a sustainable way. services to our guests as well as being a socially responsible company. This philosophy is reflected in our moderate marketing campaign which is not aggressive. We believe that our sustainable business model will give us a competitive advantage in the future COMPLIANCE SO8 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of nonSO10 Prevention and mitigation monetary sanctions for measures implemented in operations noncompliance with laws and with significant potential or actual regulations. negative impacts on local communities. As our operations do not really have significant SBR did not Since its opening, impacts on local communities, we do not have have any fines or nonmitigation programs in place. monetary sanctions for Should we identify such issues, we will definitely come up with mitigation programs and solutions non-compliances with laws and regulations. to reduce such potential impact. Siloso Beach Resort Corporate Sustainability Report 2012 163 Some of our community Siloso Beach Resort Blending Life and Leisure with Nature Public Policies donations include: (SBR regularly donates to causes which are close to its heart) Make a Wish Foundation We regularly support this cause that aims to grant children facing life threatening illnesses a wish Sichuan Earthquake Disaster relief aid We were one of the first companies to fund the relief efforts Tribob Singapore Sprint Series And many more… Siloso Beach Resort Corporate Sustainability Report 2012 164 Product Responsibility Siloso Beach Resort Blending Life and Leisure with Nature Public Policies CUSTOMER HEALTH AND SAFETY PR1 Life cycle stages in which health and safety impacts of products and services are assessed for improvement, and percentage of significant products and services categories subject to such procedures. Finished product Products: SBR does not produce its own products, however has policies in place to purchase in the most responsible manner. This involves analyzing the products that we purchase in order to get the most sustainable options and which will also be safe for our staff and guests to use. •Services: The services that we offer have gone through a health and safety risk assessment and audited by a third party. As such every aspects of our operations follows stringent health and safety standards. Even from the beginning development stages of the Resort, health and safety impacts were assessed for improvement. PR2 Total number of incidents of nonList of life cycle stages subject to health and safety compliance with regulations and voluntary assessment: codes concerning health and safety impacts of products and services during their life cycle, by Yes No type of outcomes. Development of X product and concept Since opening, SBR did not have any incidents of noncompliance with regulations and voluntary codes R&D Not Applicable concerning health and safety impacts of products and services. Certification Not Applicable There has been a few cases of minor incidents at the hotel Manufacturing and Not Applicable for aspects such as: Production -Fall from Slippery floor after rain: 3 Marketing and X promotion -Cuts after broken glass: 5 -Fall in staircases: 4 Storage distribution X and supply These incidents were found to be accidental and Use and Service X not related to non compliance Disposal, reuse, and X recycling Percentages of products and services At SBR the level undergoing such procedure: Products: Not Applicable of incidents Services: 100% Is very low Siloso Beach Resort Corporate Sustainability Report 2012 165 PRODUCT AND SERVICE LABELING Siloso Beach Resort PR3 Type of product and service information Blending Life and Leisure with Nature Public Policies required by procedures, and percentage of significant products and services subject to such information requirements. 100% of relevant product and service categories Products: As a hotel business, many of the products that SBR uses are purchased from third parties. As such, these products already contain the regulatory labels on them with regards to content, safety, disposal and other specific aspects. SBR ensures that these labels remain on the products before handling by staff and guests. Relevant information regarding the sourcing of component products of our hospitality At SBR all required labeling services, where applicable, is required. Are present on site Services: Labels and banners promoting various types of services are widely present at SBR. SBR meets all regulatory requirements with regards to labeling of safety aspects which include: •Fire exits/extinguishers location/emergency exits •Food type (e.g., nuts, spices…) •Non-smoking signs But also extensive labels and panels on services location: -reception/café/roof top garden… SBR has gone much beyond this by setting a range of information corners such as location panels at each elevator floor or our Green Hub Corner where a large scale map of the resort is displayed. PR4 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning product and service information and labelling, by type of outcomes. We are compliant with Since opening, SBR did not have any incidents of rules and regulations and non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes no we do not use concerning product and service information and labeling. inappropriate of funny SBR intends to keep it this way and is constantly collecting feedbacks in order to improve such aspects even further. signs when it comes to There are currently truly numerous information panels and serious aspects or legal labels throughout the resort informing on the nature of requirements products and services. Siloso Beach Resort Corporate Sustainability Report 2012 166 PR5 Practices related to customer satisfaction, Siloso Beach Resort including results of surveys measuring customer Blending Life and Leisure with Nature Public Policies satisfaction. The below graphic showcases compiled monthly customer satisfaction feedbacks over a year period. SBR conducts monthly survey of customer satisfaction. Different means are used to do this which include: -In room feedback forms -Random surveys -Website surveys SBR is currently in the process of a major facilities renovations which include a total refurnishing and design change for all our rooftop suites and facility rooms in a first phase. In a second phase our standard and deluxe rooms will also be upgraded. This major upgrade should significantly contribute towards customer satisfaction improvement in addition to a range of other measures which are also currently being implemented. Siloso Beach Resort Corporate Sustainability Report 2012 167 MARKETING COMMUNICATIONS Siloso Beach Resort Blending Life and Leisure with Nature Public Policies PR6 Programs for adherence to laws, standards, and voluntary codes related to marketing PR9 Monetary value of significant fines for communications, including advertising, noncompliance with laws and regulations promotion, and sponsorship. concerning the provision and use of SBR does not sell any banned or similarly questionable products and services. products. We follow the DMAS (Direct marketing Association of Singapore) marketing code of To date SBR did not have any conduct. We are not one of the members, however, the code of practice serves as a general guideline. We fines for noncompliance with laws and review this voluntary codes on a yearly basis. regulations concerning the above PR7 Total number of incidents of noncompliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning marketing communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship by type of outcomes. We have not had any reported incidents so far. SBR has a soft approach to marketing and our approach is not aggressive or competitive with other hotels. CUSTOMER PRIVACY PR8 Total number of substantiated complaints Customer data and privacy regarding breaches of customer privacy and protection is important losses of customer data. to us Like any other hotels, we are always dealing with a range of “ customer complaints, however so far, we have never had any issues or complaints regarding breaches of ’ customer privacy and losses of data. ’ At SBR, customer privacy is one of our priority and we treat such data with care and professionalism. ’ Recently SBR has invested and put into place a major ’ internal backup computer system that allows all the customer data to be safely stored on our servers. SBR does not store information without prior approval of its customers. Most of the data that we collect is on a temporary basis between the time the customer makes a ” booking to the time he leaves the hotel or cancels the reservation. Siloso Beach Resort Corporate Sustainability Report 2012 168 Economic Siloso Beach Resort Blending Life and Leisure with Nature ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE Economic EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed, including revenues, operating costs, employee compensation, donations and other community investments, retained earnings, and payments to capital providers and governments. Total business revenue for FY 2011: S$13,005,658 Distribution of Total Revenue (in Singapore Dollars and by % ) 385000, 3.0% 82794, 0.6% 779061, 1259517, 9.7% Salary and bonus 6.0% Employee Provident Fund (CPF) Operating Expenses Cost of Service Income Profit (after provision for income tax) 2915835, 22.4% 3467044, 26.7% Provision for Income Tax Social Investments “ 4116407, 31.7% ’ “ ” Siloso Beach Resort Corporate Sustainability Report 2012 169 EC2 Financial implications and other risks Siloso Beach Resort and opportunities for the organization’s Blending Life and Leisure with Nature activities due to climate change. Economic SBR takes climate change issues seriously. SBR EC4 Significant financial assistance acknowledges the fact that climate change is real received from government. and that progressive changes as a result will be felt throughout the century. SBR has not received any financial assistance from the government so far. The construction of the hotel was Short term: While SBR does not see any significant privately funded. financial impacts in the short term, many aspects of how it operates and plans its business in the SBR is however starting to look into a range of government medium to long term to take climate risk into funds especially for the implementation of new energy consideration. efficiency projects Medium and long term: SBR foresees that financial risks in the medium to MARKET PRESENCE long term may include: EC5 Range of ratios of standard entry level wage •Adaptive costs of various sorts: e.g. coastal by gender compared to local minimum wage at erosion from sea level rise, stronger and more significant locations of operation. frequent rainfall events and tropical storms which could cause structural damages and associated Our wages are in line with standard minimum entry problems such as floods, water infiltration in buildings… level wage in the hotel industry in Singapore.  As ambient temperature will increase, SBR will We have recently increased our minimum wages to make have to find new solutions to deal with mosquito them more competitive. This process is also part of our control. This will add cost to our operations. strategy to attract and retain local talents.  As the impacts of climate change will increase, the world economy will suffer heavily. This will affect Ratio for both genders is in the range of 0.93 (in our leisure travels and therefore SBR’s business. favor).  As a beach front business, in the long term sea level rise will become a major issue for SBR.  The potential of future environmental regulations EC6 Policy, practices, and proportion of spending and taxes serve to potentially increase operating on locally-based suppliers at significant locations cost. of operation. Opportunities SBR has a strong policy to purchase its supplies as much as  With climate change also comes the opportunity possible from local suppliers. to provide sustainable hospitality services.  Having been environmentally conscious from the For aspects such as F&B, local is defined as within South very beginning, climate change also could add a East Asia. One of our primary reasons for purchasing locally competitive advantage to the resort as other is to reduce our carbon footprint. businesses work to catch up and improve their environmental credentials. More than 70% of our purchases are done locally (as a EC3 Coverage of the organization’s defined percentage of the total purchasing budget) benefit plan obligations? In addition to the geographic location, we also take into account cost and quality, carbon footprint of transport, the Our coverage includes the below: sustainability of the supplier in its production and disposal processes, and social performance. CPF Contribution Work/life balance Compulsory Accommodation Transportation Meals Our purchasing Medical insurance (+ hospital coverage) policy is Asia centric Siloso Beach Resort Corporate Sustainability Report 2012 170 Siloso Beach Resort Blending Life and Leisure with Nature Economic Recently, SBR has implemented a sustainability fund This fund collected through various means will help to fund our sustainability Projects with the aim of having our sustainability programs self sustained In the future Siloso Beach Resort Corporate Sustainability Report 2012 171 Procedure for local hiring Siloso Beach Resort Blending Life and Leisure with Nature EC7 Procedures for local hiring and Economic proportion of senior management hired from the local community at locations of significant operation. SBR is an equal opportunity employer. It has a clear procedure in place when it comes to foreign verses local hires. Priority is always given to locals in situation of equality of skills and experience. Proportion of senior management hired from the local community: At SBR Senior management is 100% local and “ composed of family members (senior management is defined as those above the normal department manager positions). Breakdown of Department Managers: Total: 14 ” Locals: 7 Foreigners: 7 SBR has a balance between locals and foreigners in its management Siloso Beach Resort Corporate Sustainability Report 2012 172 Siloso Beach Resort Blending Life and Leisure with Nature INDIRECT ECONOMIC IMPACTS Economic EC9 significant indirect economic impacts, and EC8 Development and impact of the extent of impacts. infrastructure investments and services provided primarily for public benefit SBR works with various organizations who advise us on the through commercial, in kind, or pro-bono economic needs of Singapore and help us to understand engagement. our indirect economic impacts. Infrastructure Investments: While many of the Indirect Significance of Impacts infrastructure at SBR was developed with guest economic satisfaction and the environment in mind, they impacts were not developed primarily for public benefit. Seasonality of Negative: Seasonality can result in Most of the resort's infrastructure has a direct Tourism Industry some economic instability. economic return such as rooms and restaurants facilities. Attracting tourists Positive: Attracting more tourists to Singapore will bring additional money into Services: Before implementing a new service, SBR the Singapore economy. This is conducts a financial analysis of how much it’s going aligned with the national policy of to cost verses financial returns. Initiatives are promoting Singapore, and Sentosa subdivided into two categories: Island in particular, as a tourist destination. -Financial investments: Investments for which a Employment of Negative and Positive: Hospitality positive financial return is expected Foreign Talent is an industry that by necessity -CSR investments: Investments for which no financial employs a significant percentage of return is expected. foreign talent. This can have a positive effect on the economy, For CSR projects, a budget is allocated from the but also it may result in otherwise total hotel revenues. SBR has no financial interest in lower wages for some occupations. doing so but also believes that acting as a responsible corporate citizen in giving back to Raising awareness Positive: Actively promoting society is an important moral task that any business of sustainable sustainable business serves to have should consider. business a positive effect on the Singapore economy. This is a better model Our Eco Tour program in particular is a CSR project for creating long-term prosperity that is for public benefit by teaching students, and in line with Singapore’s pledge companies, and the community about sustainable to cut GHG emissions 16% by 2020. business using SBR as a case study. Although a local Extent of Impacts: For all of our indirect economic impacts, community assessment has not been conducted, the extent of the impact is very small, and not possible to we are confident of the importance of this program observe in relation to the overall Singapore economy. as it has been requested by many teachers and However, as a responsible business, we still feel it is business. We believe that knowledge about important for us to study and understand our indirect sustainable business will benefit the public as they economic impacts will have better quality of life from business impacts when society accepts that sustainable and responsible practices are the only viable way of doing business. Our Eco Tour program is conducted free of charge (pro bono) and since its start in 2007 has been conducted for more than 3500 participants (as of July 2012). In 2010, the Eco Tour was conducted for over 991 participants, and in 2011 for over 852 participants. The estimated cost of running the program for 2010 and 2011 is about S$12,000 per year. Siloso Beach Resort Corporate Sustainability Report 2012 173 Siloso Beach Resort Blending Life and Leisure with Nature Our final key message ’ Siloso Beach Resort Corporate Sustainability Report 2012 174 Siloso Beach Resort Blending Life and Leisure with Nature Thank you for reading through! That’s all folks! Siloso Beach Resort Corporate Sustainability Report 2012 175 GRI 3.1 Content Index (Concise) Siloso Beach Resort Blending Life and Leisure with Nature Profile Disclosures Profile disclosure & Report section or full GRI content index Reported Page category Strategy and 1.1 Statement from the Owner/Executive Director Fully 10 – 12 Analysis 1.2 Description of impacts , risks and opportunities Fully 18 – 34 Organisational 2.1 Name of the organization Fully 36 Profile 2.2 Primary brands, products and/or services Fully 36 – 47 2.3 Operational structures Fully 48 2.4 Location of headquarters Fully 48 2.5 Countries of operation Fully 48 – 49 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form Fully 49 2.7 Markets served Fully 53 – 54 2.8 Scale of organization Fully 55 2.9 Significant changes during the reporting period Fully 57 2.10 Awards received during the reporting period Fully 57 – 58 Report 3.1 Reporting period Fully 59 Parameters 3.2 Date of most recent previous report Fully 59 3.3 Reporting cycle Fully 59 3.4 Contact point for questions regarding the report Fully 59 3.5 Process for defining report content Fully 59 3.6 Boundary of the report Fully 61 3.7 Specific limitations on the scope or boundary of the report Fully 61 3.8 Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, leased Fully 61 facilities, etc. 3.9 Data measurement techniques and the bases of calculations Fully 61 3.10 Effect of any re-statements of information provided in earlier Fully 61 reports 3.11 Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the Fully 61 scope, boundary, or measurement methods applied 3.12 GRI content index Table identifying the location of the Fully 176 181 Standard Disclosures in the report 3.13 Policy and current practice with regard to seeking external Fully 62 assurance for the report Siloso Beach Resort Corporate Sustainability Report 2012 176 GRI 3.1 Content Index (Concise) Siloso Beach Resort Blending Life and Leisure with Nature Profile Disclosures Profile disclosure & Report section or full GRI content index Reported Page category Governance, 4.1 Governance structure of the organization Fully 64 commitments, and engagements 4.2 Chair of the highest governance Fully 64 4.3 Unitary board structure Fully 64 4.4 Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to provide Fully 64 65 recommendations 4.5 Linkage between compensation for members of the highest Fully 66 governance body, senior managers, and executives 4.6 Processes in place for the highest governance body to avoid Fully 66 conflicts of interest 4.7 Process for determining the composition, qualifications, and Fully 67 expertise of the members of the highest governance body 4.8 Internally developed statements of mission or values, codes of Fully 67 conduct and the status of their implementation 4.9 Procedures of the highest governance body for overseeing the Fully 68 economic, environmental, and social performance, including relevant risks and opportunities 4.10 Processes for evaluating the highest governance body Fully 68 performance, particularly with respect to economic, environmental, and social performance 4.11 Implementation of precautionary approach or principle Fully 69 4.12 Subscription or endorsement to externally developed Fully 70 economic, environmental, and social charters or other initiatives 4.13 Membership in associations Fully 71 – 72 4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization Fully 73 85 4.15 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with Fully 86 whom to engage 4.16 Approaches to stakeholder engagement, including frequency of Fully 87 88 engagement by type and by stakeholder group 4.17 Key topics and concerns raised through stakeholder Fully 89 engagement and response by the organization Siloso Beach Resort Corporate Sustainability Report 2012 177 GRI 3.1 Content Index (Concise) Siloso Beach Resort Blending Life and Leisure with Nature Performance Indicators Economic Performance indicator Report section or full GRI content index Reported Page Economic EC 1 Direct economic value generated and distributed Partially 169 performance EC 2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the Fully 170 organization’s activities due to climate change EC 3 Coverage of defined benefit plan obligations Partially 170 EC 4 Significant financial assistance received from government Fully 170 Market presence EC 5 Range of ratios of standard entry level wage by gender Fully 170 compared to local minimum wage EC 6 Policy, practices, and proportion of spending on locally-based Fully 170 suppliers EC 7 Procedures for local hiring and proportion of senior Fully 172 management hired Indirect economic EC 8 Infrastructure investments and services provided primarily for Fully 173 impact public benefit EC 9 Significant indirect economic impacts, and the extent of impacts Fully 173 Environmental Materials EN 1 Materials used by weight or volume Partially 90 EN 2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials Fully 90 Energy EN 3 Direct energy consumption by primary energy source Fully 94 EN 4 Indirect energy consumption by primary source Fully 94 EN 5 Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency improvement Not 94 EN 6 Initiatives to provide energy-efficient or renewable energy Partially 104 based products and services EN 7 Initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption Partially 104 Water EN 8 Total water withdrawal by source Fully 111 – 112 EN 9 Water source significantly affected by withdrawal of water Fully 112 EN 10 Percentage and total volume of water recycled and reused Fully 112 Biodiversity EN 11 Location and size of land owned, leased, managed in, or Fully 114 adjacent to, protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas EN 12 Significant impacts of activities on biodiversity inside and Fully 114 outside the protected areas EN 13 Habitats protected and restored Fully 114 EN 14 Strategies, current actions, and future plans for managing Fully 125 – 126 impacts on biodiversity EN 15 Number of IUCN Red List species and national conservation Fully 126 list species with habitats in areas affected by operations Siloso Beach Resort Corporate Sustainability Report 2012 178 GRI 3.1 Content Index (Concise) Siloso Beach Resort Blending Life and Leisure with Nature Performance Indicators Environmental Performance indicator Report section or full GRI content index Reported Page Emissions, EN 16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight Fully 127 effluents and waste EN 17 Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight Fully 129 EN 18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and achievements Partially 129 130 EN 19 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances by weight Fully 131 EN 20 NO, SO, and other significant air emissions by type and weight Partially 131 EN 21 Total water discharge by quality and destination Partially 134 EN 22 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method Partially 134 135 EN 23 Total number and volume of significant spills Fully 139 EN 24 Weight of transported, imported, exported, or treated hazardous Fully 139 waste and percentage shipped internationally EN 25 Size, protected status, and biodiversity value of water bodies and Fully 139 habitats affected by discharges of water and runoff Products and EN 26 Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts Partially 146 services EN 27 Percentage of products sold and packaging materials reclaimed Fully 146 Compliance EN 28 Fines and sanctions for non-compliance with environmental laws Fully 148 and regulations Transport EN 29 Significant environmental impacts of transporting products and Fully 148 other goods and members of the workforce Overall EN 30 Total environmental protection expenditures and investments Fully 149 Social: Labor practices and decent work Employment LA 1 Total workforce by employment type, employment contract, and Fully 154 region, broken down by gender LA 2 Number and rate of new employee hired and employee turnover Partially 155 by age group, gender, and region LA 3 Benefits provided for full-time employees Fully 155 LA 15 Return to work and retention rates after parental leave Fully 161 Labour/ LA 4 Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining Fully 156 management agreements relations LA 5 Minimum notice period(s) on operational changes Fully 156 Occupational LA 6 Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint Fully 156 health and management–worker health and safety committees safety LA 7 Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, absenteeism, Partially 156 and number of work related fatalities LA 8 Education, training, counselling, and risk-control program Fully 156 regarding serious diseases LA 9 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with Fully 157 trade unions Siloso Beach Resort Corporate Sustainability Report 2012 179 GRI 3.1 Content Index (Concise) Siloso Beach Resort Blending Life and Leisure with Nature Performance Indicators Social: Labor practices and decent work Performance indicator Report section or full GRI content index Reported Page Training and LA 10 Average hours of training per year per employee by gender, Fully 157 education and by employee category LA 11 Programs for skills management and lifelong learning Fully 157 LA 12 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and Fully 157 career development reviews, by gender Diversity and LA 13 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of Partially 158 equal opportunity employees per employee category Equal LA 14 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men by Fully 161 remuneration for employee category women and men Social: Human rights Investment and HR 1 Percentage and number of investment agreements that Fully 150 procurement include human rights clauses or screening practices HR 2 Percentage of suppliers, contractors and other business Fully 150 partners have undergone human rights screening HR 3 Total hours and percentage of employee trained on policies Fully 150 and procedures concerning aspects of human rights NonHR 4 Number of incidents of discrimination and corrective actions Fully 150 discrimination taken Freedom of HR 5 Operations and significant suppliers identified in which the Fully 152 association and right to exercise freedom of association and collective collective bargaining may be at significant risk and actions taken bargaining Child labor HR 6 Operations and suppliers identified the significant risk for Fully 152 incidents of child labor, and measures taken Prevention of HR 7 Operations and suppliers identified the significant risk for Fully 152 forced and incidents of forced or compulsory labor, and measures taken compulsory labor Security practices HR 8 Percentage of security personnel trained in the human rights Fully 153 policies or procedures Indigenous rights HR 9 Number of incidents of violations involving rights of indigenous Fully 153 people and actions taken Assessment HR 10 Percentage and number of operations that have been subject Fully 153 to human rights reviews Remediation HR 11 Number of grievances related to human rights filed, addressed Fully 153 and resolved through formal grievance mechanisms Siloso Beach Resort Corporate Sustainability Report 2012 180 GRI 3.1 Content Index (Concise) Siloso Beach Resort Blending Life and Leisure with Nature Performance Indicators Social: Society Performance indicator Report section or full GRI content index Reported Page Local communities SO 1 Percentage of operations with implemented local community Partially 161 engagement, impact assessments, and development programs SO 9 Operations with significant potential or actual negative impacts Fully 163 on local communities SO 10 Prevention and mitigation measures implemented with Fully 163 significant potential negative impacts on local communities Corruption SO 2 Percentage and total number of business units analysed for Fully 161 risks related to corruption SO 3 Percentage of employees trained in anti-corruption policies Fully 161 and procedures. SO 4 Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption Fully 161 Public policy SO 5 Public policies involvement Partially 162 SO 6 Total value of financial and in-kind contributions to political Fully 162 parties, politicians, and related institutions Anti-competitive SO 7 Total number of legal actions for anticompetitive behavior and Fully 162 behavior the outcomes Compliance SO 8 Significant fines and sanctions for non-compliance with laws Fully 162 and regulations Social: Product responsibility Customer health PR 1 Life cycle analysis of products and services Fully 165 and safety PR 2 Number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and Fully 165 voluntary codes (health and safety impacts of products and services) Product and PR 3 Type of product and service information required by Fully 166 service labelling procedures PR 4 Number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and Fully 166 voluntary codes (product and service information and labelling) PR 5 Practices related to customer satisfaction Fully 167 Marketing PR 6 Programs for adherence to laws, standards, and voluntary Fully 168 communications codes related to marketing communications PR 7 Number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and Fully 168 voluntary codes (marketing communications) Customer privacy PR 8 Number of substantiated complaints regarding breaches of Fully 168 customer privacy and losses of customer data Compliance PR 9 Monetary fines for non-compliance with laws and regulations Fully 168 concerning the provision and use of products and services Siloso Beach Resort Corporate Sustainability Report 2012 181 Annex “ ’ ’ ” 182 Annex Siloso Beach Resort Blending Life and Leisure with Nature 2. Environmental Targets Achieved ENVIRONMENTAL TARGETS ACHIEVED PURPOSE I – Environmental Policies, Procedures, and Practices Since the construction of the Resort, the Owners had a vision to develop an eco friendly resort. Below details the targets that have been set by the Environmental Management Committee and the ensuing results for the 2006-2010 period: LIST OF ENVIRONMENTAL TARGETS AND INITIATIVES: 2007-2009 SNO TARGETS STATUS PRESERVATION OF NATURAL ENVIRONMENT 1. The built up areas of the Resort will not exceed 30% of the land use. Done 2. The natural terrain will be preserved, especially for the swimming pool Done which is built on the terrain rather than in the ground, and Villa Wing where all the villas are built on stilts. 3. The trees will be preserved in their natural environment. The rooms and Done other facilities will be built around the trees. 4. All tall trees will be equipped with lightning protection and properly Done maintained, to ensure guest safety and the preservation of trees. 5. Create 12 ponds to house fish and turtles, and to encourage frogs, Done dragonflies, and other native biodiversity. Siloso Beach Resort Corporate Sustainability Report 2012 183 Annex Siloso Beach Resort Blending Life and Leisure with Nature 2. Environmental Targets Achieved ENERGY CONSERVATION 6. The Resort will use energy saving PL and LED lightings. Done I – Environmental Policies, Procedures, and Practices 7. Chillers will be energy efficient with heat exchangers that Done will heat up hot water for showers. 8. Gym, pool, café, and other areas will be outdoors to use Done natural lighting and be without air conditioning. 9. Corridors will not be enclosed and with rooms on only one Done side, so as to allow use of natural lighting and minimize use of air conditioning. 10. Dimmers will be used on lighting where appropriate. Done 11. Card access system will control lighting and appliances in Done the room so that when removed these will be switched off. 12. Set up self-maintenance roof top garden, that absorbs Done solar energy to cool the building and reduce air conditioning usage. WATER MANAGEMENT 13. Ground spring water will be treated and used for Done swimming pool, gardening, and washing of floors. 14. Taps especially in public areas to have automatic cut off. Done 15. Introduce time switch sprinklers for spring ground water Done irrigation. 16. Use of water efficient Grohe shower system, and Done showerheads that restrict water flow. Siloso Beach Resort Corporate Sustainability Report 2012 184 2. Environmental Annex Siloso Beach Resort Blending Life and Leisure with Nature Targets Achieved F&B WASTE MANAGEMENT 17. Food waste will be separated and recycled into Done compost. I – Environmental Policies, Procedures, and Practices 18. Worms will be cultivated and their secretion used as Done fertilizers for gardening. 19. Food waste is collected and converted into water via Done food waste decomposer before disposing. 20. Introduce Children’s menu to reduce food wastage. Done 21. Refuse to serve endangered species, such as Sharks Done Fin and Blue Fin Tuna. 22. Use flowers and other plant-based table decoration Done instead of table cloths. 23. Introduce late night room service that requires micro Done wave cooking so that the main kitchen can shut down to reduce electricity consumption by 80%. 24. Use herbs from garden for food garnishing Done ENVIRONMENTAL EDUCATION 25. Develop environmental educational program and Done market to schools, polytechnics and Universities. 26. Environmental education will be included in staff Done orientation program. 27. Guests to be kept informed of Resort’s Environmental Done Policies and Initiatives. Siloso Beach Resort Corporate Sustainability Report 2012 185 2. Environmental Annex Siloso Beach Resort Targets Achieved Blending Life and Leisure with Nature REDUCE 28. Front Office to group guests on floors to reduce Done environmental impact of frequent elevator usage. 29. Newspapers to be kept in a central location at Front Office Done I – Environmental Policies, Procedures, and Practices Reception area to reduce daily newspapers. 30. Outsource laundry to enjoy economy of scale and reduce Done washing at Resort. 31. Tooth brush and tooth paste provided upon request, and Done not placed in rooms. 32. Paper reduction through more extensive use of email. Done 33. Electric hand dryers introduced in washrooms to replace Done paper towels. REUSE 34. Implement towel and linen program to reduce washing. Done 35. Reuse railway sleepers as walk way planks. Done 36. Reuse children’s playground equipment. Done 37. Recycle fallen flowers as table decorations. 38. Reuse guests unwanted shopping bags, office printing Done cartridges, carton boxes and office stationery. 39. Make it standard practice to reuse paper that has only Done been printed on one side. 40. Reuse secondary wood from sources like reclaimed wood Done from conservation houses for making and repairing furniture. RECYCLE 41. Recycle glass, paper, metal, food waste, plastic. Done 42. Set up recycle bins in prominent areas. Done Siloso Beach Resort Corporate Sustainability Report 2012 186 2. Environmental Annex Siloso Beach Resort Blending Life and Leisure with Nature Targets Achieved ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT, TRACKING AND MONITORING 43. Form Environmental Management Committee. Done 44. Develop Environmental Vision, and Value statements. Done I – Environmental Policies, Procedures, and Practices 45. Develop Department Environmental Policies, Procedures, Done and Practices. 46. Keep track of water consumption statistics. Done 47. Keep track of electrical consumption statistics. Done 48. Keep track of food waste statistics. Done 49. Keep track of paper usage statistics. Done 50. Keep track of food purchases, capturing their source and Done value. LANDSCAPING GARDENING 51. Develop a “green sanctuary” (nursery) for growing, Done nurturing, and testing through research and development new plants for use in the Resort. 52. Plant herbs and vegetables for Resort’s use. Done 53. Plant an additional 400 trees, 20 different herbs, 15 types of Done fruit trees and 100 flowers 54. Use shrubs to decorate the top of rubbish bins (normally Done used as ash tray) to remind guests about the environment and to discourage smoking. PURCHASING PROCUREMENT 55. Develop purchasing guidelines. Done 56. Inform suppliers and vendors of Resort’s Environmental Done Policies. 57. Introduce Green Labeling to suppliers. Done Siloso Beach Resort Corporate Sustainability Report 2012 187 2. Environmental Annex Siloso Beach Resort Blending Life and Leisure with Nature Targets Achieved SAFETY HEALTH 58. Allow guests the option of with Feather or Polyester Done (Hypo allergenic) pillows. I – Environmental Policies, Procedures, and Practices 59. Guests to be given quality Sealy mattress. Done 60. Housekeeping to compile MSDS for all chemicals. Done 61. Pool to be sanitized with a salt ionization electrode Done system instead of using harsh chemical chlorine. 62. Housekeeping to brief staff on chemical usage and Done safety. LIST OF ENVIRONMENTAL TARGETS AND INITIATIVES: 2009Q1 2011 SNO TARGETS STATUS ENERGY CONSERVATION 63. Implement infrared technology for chillers that minimize Done power leakage by stabilizing the current, for energy savings of 20%. 64. Test bed new energy efficient heater in kitchen that can Done heat 500L of water to 70 degrees Celsius using just a standard household 13amp plug. WATER CONSERVATION 65. Placement of signage for towel and linen program in rooms Done to inform guests who wish to save water 66. Test bed environmentally friendly bacteria product from Done Envirofriendly that saves water by not requiring flushing for urinals. Siloso Beach Resort Corporate Sustainability Report 2012 188 Annex Siloso Beach Resort Blending Life and Leisure with Nature 2. Environmental Targets Achieved F&B AND FOOD AND WASTE MANAGEMENT 67. Over 75% of food sourced from local sources or ASEAN Done I – Environmental Policies, Procedures, and Practices countries ENVIRONMENTAL EDUCATION 68. Develop and place Self Guided Eco Tour Storyboard’s Done around the resort, so that anyone can give themselves an Eco Tour of our Resort. 69. Set up Siloso Beach Resort Facebook Group to inform Done guests and online community of the Resort’s Environmental Policies and Initiatives. 70. Sponsored and completed the development of the Done Biodiversity Portal of website. www.biodiversity.sg 71. Create In-room eco message, and place in all rooms. In Progress 72. Provide discounts for Green Meeting packages. Done [Quarter 1 of 2011 Update: The package was put together, In Progress but it was not successful. The Green Meeting package is currently be re-evaluated.] 73. Put up posters to turn café into a biodiversity themed In Progress REDUCE, REUSE, RECYCLE 74. Stop using small plastic bottles in superior and deluxe Done rooms (REDUCE). 75. Soap dispensers to be installed in nearly all rooms Done (REDUCE). Siloso Beach Resort Corporate Sustainability Report 2012 189 Annex Siloso Beach Resort Blending Life and Leisure with Nature 2. Environmental Targets Achieved ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT, TRACKING AND MONITORING. I – Environmental Policies, Procedures, and Practices 76. Implement Eco Tour feedback form, and create Feedback Done Index to track and evaluate improvement. 77. Develop Eco Test/Survey for staff. Done 78. Create environmental targets for each department. Done 79. Keep detailed records of groups who have attended the eco Done tour. LANDSCAPING AND GARDENING 80. Label herbs in the “green sanctuary” (nursery). Done 81. Plant 50 additional trees (on top of the 400 already planted). Done SAFETY AND HEALTH 82. bizSAFE level 3 certified Done Siloso Beach Resort Corporate Sustainability Report 2012 190 Annex 1. Records of Eco Tour Siloso Beach Resort Blending Life and Leisure with Nature Participants (continuation) Number of Date Group name persons Year 2007 Estimated unrecorded for 2007 180 October 14, 2008 Bukit View Secondary School 24 October 14-15, 2008 Queenstown Sec. School (Monster Image) 21 November 17-21, 2008 Temasek Polytechnic Students 240 December 16, 2008 Raffles Campus 25 Year 2008 Estimated unrecorded for 2008 240 May 31-June 1, 2009 Woodlands Green Secondary School 38 May 28-29 2009 Bukit Batok Secondary School 42 September 26, 2009 Temasek Polytechnic Students 25 December 2-3, 2009 Temasek Polytechnic Students 125 December 9, 2009 Temasek Polytechnic Students 6 Year 2009 Estimate unrecorded for 2009 240 March 24, 2010 Temasek Polytechnic Students 39 Compact CSR Learning Journey: Competitive Advantages from Responsible April 23, 2010 Business Strategies 90 May 27, 2010 Nanyang Polytechnic Students 62 June 8, 2010 Ngee Ann Polytechnic Students 3 July 20, 2010 Students 6 July 24, 2010 MBA students (under Dr. Aloysius) 13 July 31, 2010 For Media group (In Chinese) 5 August 12, 2010 Impromptu tour for Guest(s) 1 August 13, 2010 For group of Reporters 6 Seng Kang Secondary Teachers (6) and August 16, 2010 ComNet Communications (2) 8 August 25, 2010 For WWF Employee 1 L – SBR Eco Tour Singapore Environmental Achievement Award judges and Singapore Environment September 14, 2010 Council 12 September 15, 2010 Tour Group from India 18 September 27, 2010 Impromptu tour for Guest(s) 2 Environment Council's Sustainable Development: From Design to Build to Live in Seminar for Architects from Singapore September 29, 2010 Institute of Architects 85 Siloso Beach Resort Corporate Sustainability Report 2012 191 Annex 1. Records of Eco Siloso Beach Resort Blending Life and Leisure with Nature Tour Participants (continuation) Date Group name number Preview tour for PS21 ExCel Convention organized October 4, 2010 by National Environment Agency 2 October 6, 2010 Sentosa Employees 3 October 8, 2010 ComNet Communication Employees 24 October 11, 2010 Staff Orientation 1 October 21, 2010 Photographers 3 October 23, 2010 National University of Singapore MBA students 5 October 25, 2010 Nanyang Academy of Fine Arts Lecturers 3 November 1, 2010 Marsiling Secondary School 33 PS21 ExCel Convention Learning Journey organized November 3, 2010 by National Environment Agency 44 November 7, 2010 Kaplan University Students 2 November 9, 2010 Nanyang Students 23 Teachers from Republic Poly (5), and students from November 10, 2010 (2) 7 November 16, 2010 University Nevada Las Vegas (Singapore) Students 5 November 16, 2010 Singapore Polytechnic Lecturers 5 November 18, 2010 University Nevada Las Vegas (Singapore) Students 6 November 20, 2010 University Nevada Las Vegas (Singapore) Students 20 November 25, 2010 University Nevada Las Vegas (Singapore) Students 7 November 26, 2010 Singapore Polytechnic Students 39 November 29, 2010 University Nevada Las Vegas (Singapore) Students 3 Representatives from Raffles (2), Marine Biology and L – SBR Eco Tour November 29, 2010 Ecology Laboratory (1), and Nparks (2) 5 December 6, 2010 University Nevada Las Vegas (Singapore) Students 32 December 14, 2010 Xebec Employees 3 December 20, 2010 Impromptu tour for Guest(s) 5 Year 2010 Estimate unrecorded in 2010 120 January 4, 2010 EnviroFriendly 1 January 7, 2011 Underwater World employees 2 January 24, 2011 Compact Staff 1 Ministry of Environment and Water Resources, January 26, 2011 Divisional Retreat 11 February 15, 2011 University Nevada Las Vegas (Singapore) Students 38 Siloso Beach Resort Corporate Sustainability Report 2012 192 Annex Siloso Beach Resort 1. Records of Eco Tour Blending Life and Leisure with Nature Participants (continuation) Date Group name Number February 19, 2011 NUS Social Impact Club Students 18 February 25, 2011 AIESEC Students 2 February 28, 2011 Eco Tour for Media partners 6 March 4, 2011 Environmentalist 1 March 6, 2011 Khoo Teck Puat Hospital and Tzu Chi 13 March 10, 2011 Sembawang Shipyard 2 March 15, 2011 Science Centre 4 March 23, 2011 Temasek Polytechnic Students 55 March 28, 2011 Chem Search 2 April 6, 2011 SMU Students 20 April 20, 2011 Ngee Ann Polytechnic Students 33 April 21, 2011 SEC volunteer event 23 April 27, 2011 Guests 3 April 28, 2011 Singapore Polytechnic Students 1 May 6, 2011 Eco Tour for UWCSEA Students 4 May 10, 2011 Singapore Polytechnic Students 40 May 11, 2011 Singapore Polytechnic Students 27 May 18, 2011 Singapore Polytechnic Students 20 May 19, 2011 Singapore Polytechnic Students 30 May 20, 2011 Nan Hua High School Students 28 May 23, 2011 Casaraudha Women's Home 3 May 27, 2011 Institute of Technical Education Students 34 University Nevada Las Vegas (Singapore) June 11, 2011 Students 29 June 13, 2011 Nanyang Polytechnic Students 14 Singapore Management Tertiary June 13, 2011 Schools/Universities 6 June 14, 2011 Temasek Polytechnic Students 4 June 30, 2011 Murdoch University Students 4 L – SBR Eco Tour July 6, 2011 Kaplan University Students 4 Ngee Ann Polytechnic students (Eco tour July 14, 2011 and presentation) 19 July 20, 2011 Akzonobel Employees 2 Society for Global Business and Development Conference Participants July 23, 2011 (Organizied by SMU) 78 University Nevada Las Vegas (Singapore) July 27, 2011 Students 2 August 16, 2011 CarbonNeutral Company 2 August 20, 2011 Japan Tourism Board 3 August 27, 2011 Singapore Tourism Board 3 Siloso Beach Resort Corporate Sustainability Report 2012 193 1. Records of Eco Tour Annex Siloso Beach Resort Blending Life and Leisure with Nature Participants (continuation) Date Group name Number Students from Simon Fraser University in September 8, 2011 Canada 4 Nanyang Technological University, September 16, 2011 Business Students 3 September 20, 2011 Sentosa Employees 2 University Nevada Las Vegas (Singapore) October 8, 2011 Students 17 October 28, 2011 NTUC Learning Hub 2 November 1, 2011 Mount Faber Leisure Group 2 November 3, 2011 CSR young leaders group 2 University Nevada Las Vegas (Singapore) November 4, 2011 Students 40 November 5, 2011 SIMtech 12 Singapore Environment Council November 9, 2011 (Executive Director) 2 Ngee Ann Polytechnic Students (Clean November 10, 2011 Energy Management) 3 November 11, 2011 Singapore Polytechnic Students 2 November 17, 2011 Queen Margaret University 7 November 19, 2011 MDIS students 1 University Nevada Las Vegas (Singapore) November 21, 2011 Students 5 November 22, 2011 Centre for Sustainable Asian Cities 9 November 24, 2011 MDIS student 1 National University of Singapore MBA November 26, 2011 students 21 December 1, 2011 Singapore Polytechnic Students 40 December 7, 2011 Nanyang Polytechnic Students 63 December 14, 2011 Simon University of Rochester 22 L – SBR Eco Tour January 19, 2012 Eco consultant 1 February 1, 2012 Raffles Design Institute Students 3 February 6, 2012 Sealy Corporate Event 45 February 7, 2012 Fuhua Primary School EXCO team 11 February 14, 2012 Guests 3 February 25, 2012 St Andrew's Autism Centre 3 March 2, 2012 National University of Singapore Students 32 Total 2907 Siloso Beach Resort Corporate Sustainability Report 2012 194 Annex Siloso Beach Resort Blending Life and Leisure with Nature Paper media coverage (selection of recent media coverage) “The greening of the Business Times, 16 Mar bottom line for SMEs in 2010 (accessed via Singapore” by Jaslene wildsingapore.com) Pang “Nurturing Nature The Straits Times, 4 Aug Responsibly, Where 2010, Page 09 leisure meets nature” (Full page advert.) “Preserving Nature” by The Straits Times, 4 Aug Mike Lee (As part of 2010, Page 10 “Special: Singapore Environmental Achievement Awards 2010” section) “Doing good pays off for The Straits Times, 9 Oct companies” 2011, Page 13 (via www.sgh.com.sg) “A helping hand for those The Straits Times, 22 Apr going green in Singapore” 2011 (accessed via by Yuen Sin wildsingapore.com) “Businesses commended The Straits Times, 12 Jul for sustainable practices” 2011 (similar articles also by Daniel Ho appeared in Business Times, Lianhe Zaobao, and Channel News Asia Online) O – Sustainable Farming “Purchase of 3 dinosaurs The Straits Times, 14 Aug at risk” by Tan Dawn Wei 2011, Prime 3 Siloso Beach Resort Corporate Sustainability Report 2012 195 Annex Siloso Beach Resort Blending Life and Leisure with Nature Online Media Coverage (selection of recent media coverage) “Local firms honoured for Eco-business.com, 4 Aug green business practices” 2010 by Jessica Cheam “S’pore companies Eco-business.com, 7 Oct honoured for CSR efforts 2010 in inaugural awards” by Nigel Hembrow “Singapore firms Eco-business.com, 12 Jul commended for green 2011 efforts” by Jenny Marusiak Green hotel directory websites Environmentally http://www.environmentally Friendly Hotels.com friendlyhotels.com/ siloso_beach_resort_ 3919.html Greenty.com http://www.greenty.com/ singaporeeco-hotels/siloso-beach-resortsentosa.aspx Blogs (Selection) “Trip to Siloso Beach Resort Singapore Polytechnic Website O – Sustainable Farming 2010” (http://www.sp.edu.sg), 26 Nov 2010 “Corporate Visit to Siloso NUS MBA website (http://www.mba.nus.edu), 19 Beach Resort” Feb 2011 “Eco Tour to Siloso Beach Nan Huah high website Resort” (http://www.nanhuahhigh.moe.edu.sg), 20 May 2011 “SFU MBA’s in Singapore: SFU Beedie School of Business website Siloso Beach Resort” by Eva (http://www.afewgoodminds.com), 22 Dec 2011 “What Siloso Beach Resort Development Advisor.com can teach you about (http://thedevelopmentadvisor.com) developing a Sustainable Resort Hotel” Siloso Beach Resort Corporate Sustainability Report 2012 196 Annex Siloso Beach Resort Blending Life and Leisure with Nature Siloso Beach Resort Website (www.silosobeachresort.com) – Extensive “Green Initiatives” section featuring: Slideshow An introductory slideshow, briefly explaining key ecofeatures through pictures and short text Projects and Eco A regularly updated blog, Tours Blog featuring SBR’s environmental projects and Eco Tours Eco-features PDF I-depth PDF document that highlights SBR’s eco-features Awards and All of SBR’s environmental Certifications awards and certifications are explained in detail on the website O – Sustainable Farming Siloso Beach Resort Corporate Sustainability Report 2012 197 Annex Siloso Beach Resort Blending Life and Leisure with Nature Magazines (Selection). Articles and advertisements in Magazines that promote SBR as an Eco-Resort Magazine Name Title and Page Date FORE! Sentosa's Latest Alluring Retreat Jul to Sep 2006 NewMan BACK TO NATURE, pg 28 Jun-08 Changi Class A Dream Resort Nov-08 HRM Singapore, Business at the beach, pg 76-77 Dec-08 The Amicalist A Dream Resort 2-Dec-08 THE PADANG A Dream Resort Jan to Feb 2009 THE PADANG A Dream Resort 20-Mar-09 Changi Class A Dream Resort Apr-09 Singapore Business Review A Dream Resort Display to 31 May 2009 Tiger Tales, A Dream Resort Jul to Aug 2009 CONNECT A Dream Resort Jul to Sept 2009 Singapore Business Review A Dream Resort Display to 31 July 2009 The Veteran A Dream Resort Aug-09 Home Team NS Eco-friendly resort, pg 2 Sep to Oct 2009 HRM Singapore A Dream Resort Nov-09 Swagg A Dream Resort Nov-09 JETSTAR ASIA A Dream Resort Dec 2009 to Jan 2010 HRM Singapore A Dream Resort Dec-09 Brides In the heart of nature Dec to Feb 2009 Tiger Tales, A Dream Resort Jan to Feb 2010 HRM Singapore A Dream Resort Jan-10 JETSTAR ASIA A Dream Resort Feb to Mar 2010 HRM Singapore Siloso Beach Resort Feb-10 HRM Singapore A Dream Resort Apr-10 HRM Singapore A Dream Resort May-10 JETSTAR ASIA A Dream Resort Jun to Jul 2010 HRM Singapore A Dream Resort Jun-10 Select Hotels and Resort's Singapore's Premier Island O – Sustainable Farming International Resort, pg 57 2009-2010 Guide A tropical resort like no other pg Best of Singapore, Volume 8 132-133 Volume 8 NUS Business School Global Alumni, pg 38-39 Refresh the Senses 2010 Robb Report Singapore The Paradise Next Door Wealth Barefoot Luxury by Jolene Limuco, pg 69 Signature A Dream Resort Siloso Beach Resort Corporate Sustainability Report 2012 198 Annex Siloso Beach Resort Blending Life and Leisure with Nature Direct Contact (Events, Networking, word of mouth, etc.) SBR Eco Tours The tour takes an in-depth look at SBR’s environmental activities. The program typically lasts 2 hours, and can be extend up to a full day. It has been attended by over 2800 persons, and significant additional awareness of SBR’s activities is created from word of mouth. Sustainability workshops and Regular attendance at capacity building seminars workshops and Seminars hosted by groups like MEWR, Singapore Compact, and Singapore Business Federation. Participation in NEA’s PS21 ExCel Convention as Learning Journey Partner. Event Sponsorships Have hosted and sponsored events for various environmental groups such as Singapore Compact, Singapore Environmental Council, and WWF In House Guests On-site educational materials make guests aware of SBR’s status as an Eco Resort: •Various panels explaining environmental issues •Posters of biodiversity with educational text •TV channels dedicated to environmental education •Messages to guests about conserving O – Sustainable Farming resources Siloso Beach Resort Corporate Sustainability Report 2012 199
