By: HT Corporate Responsibility Team: Maja Weber, Director of the Public Relations Department Nina Bertapelle, Public Relations Department, Team Coordination Lada Aškić, Public Relations Department Mirna Biondić and Krunoslava Gerbl, HR Competence Centre Sector Ivana Frankol, Marketing Communications Department Ružica Gajić, Investment Management and Operating Support Sector Environmental Protection Branka Grendov, Controlling Sector Darja Lončar Dušanović, Data Protection Officer Dorotea Pečarić Truntić, Procurement and Logistics Sector Maša Serdinšek, Corporate Strategy and Business Development Sector Tvrtko Štefanac, Supervisory Board and Management Board Office Ana Žiher, Compliance Department The Institute of Economics, Zagreb Paul Stubbs, PhD Denis Redžepagić, PhD, MEB Contents 1 About the report 5 Workplace About the report 4 Workplace 58 Statement of the CEO 7 Competitive workplace 63 Group Profile 8 Culture of helping 70 Awards and recognitions 10 GRI 3.1. Index 11 6 Cooperation with suppliers Progress report GC 23 Cooperation with suppliers 72 External assessment 24 Sustainability strategy for suppliers 73 Contacts and help in using this report 27 Use of raw materials 73 Selection of suppliers 74 2 Strategy and management Managing the supply chain 75 Values and management 29 Strategy of corporate social responsibility 32 7 Impact on the environment Risk management 34 Managing the impact on the environment 77 Stakeholders 36 Indicators of the impact on the environment 79 Relationship with the government and regulatory requirements 38 Biodiversity 85 Added value 39 8 Key indicators and objectives 3 Impact in the community Key indicators and objectives 87 Impact in the community 42 Expansion of network and infrastructure 43 Active role of the employees 43 Mobile communications and health 44 Investment in the community 45 4 Care for customers Care for customers 51 Basics of product design and development 52 Products and services minimal impact on the environment 53 Products and services without limitations 54 Recycling (recovery) 54 Customer protection 55 Customer satisfaction 56 Artist: Sanja Bachrach i Mario Krištović Art piece: Up close and personal T-HTnagrada@msu.hr competition, 2011 About the Report introduction / About the Report About the Report 1.1. Communication is the basis of our daily lives. Every business and eve a constant increase in positive synergistic effect which the Company personal relationship is based on the interaction of its participants. strives for. Social responsibility does not imply only specific performed Hrvatski Telekom (Croatian Telecom), Croatia’s largest telecommunicaactivities; it is a continuous process. Thus, this report is yet a further step tions company, seeks to facilitate and improve communication, making of this Company, in this environment, and on the way towards sustainait easier and more effective. The success of HT lies not only in innovation, bility in the broadest sense of the word. introduced to the market through new technologies and services. The Company’s success includes the appreciation of the role it plays within HISTORY OF REPORTING the community in which it operates that stems from the understanding 1.6. Hrvatski Telekom has been reporting regularly for four years on the that responsible business represents a substantial long-term strategic achievements of the Company in the field of corporate social responsiadvantage. Sustainability of business operations, through a responsible bility. As a member of a global United Nations agreement, Global Comapproach to the society in which we operate, is an integral part of our pact, HT has twice reported on its progress: firstly for 2007/2008 and Company. Every day we implement a number of activities in order to then secondly for the year 2009. In 2011 it published its first sustainbuild and maintain the trust of our customers and stakeholders, thereby ability report, on a much more detailed and wider scale: the Corporate justifying the confidence that the Company enjoys by a responsible appSocial Responsibility Report for 2010. This report continues the pracroach to the community in which it operates. tice of communicating strategies, activities and outcomes in the field of sustainability to the Company’s stakeholders this time according 1.2. Corporate responsibility means that the Company uses its own to the GRI guidelines, internationally accepted standard of reporting advantages and strengths to enrich everyday life and knowledge of the on sustainability. The Company plans to continue this practice in the community in which it operates, in order to convey corporate values following period. to all stakeholders it exchanges experiences with, on a daily basis. For example, the common denominator of donation projects in which HT SCOPE AND FRAMEWORK OF THE REPORT participates is the orientation towards charity, education and projects 1.7. This report covers the reporting period of 2011 and sees the first ever whose crucial element is modern technology. Most projects are longimplementation of the GRI 3.1. guidelines for sustainability reporting at the term, which guarantees their greater effectiveness, and many have an level of GRI G3.1 B+ reporting standard. The report on the progress in internal and external nature, which means HT employees are directly implementing the Global Compact agreement forms an integral part of involved in helping the community. this report. Also, a part of this report is the result of an independent verification of the presented data. HT plans to continue the practice of repor1.3. The outlined strategy of environmental protection has a special place ting on sustainability in two-year cycles using the GRI guidelines, therein terms of elements of responsibility. As an example of its activities as fore the next sustainability report will cover 2012 and 2013. a leader, HT participates in digitization projects in society or provides Company resources for socially useful purposes. Its presence in the 1.8 In this report, which covers the reporting period of 2011, HT presents community is at the same time justified by numerous sponsorships the its results in terms of economic, environmental and social performance Company makes, especially in the field of culture. in accordance with GRI guidelines, while trying to make the presented data accurate, balanced, comparable, up-to-date as well as clear, relia1.4. Hrvatski Telekom has great expectations from its suppliers, not only ble, comprehensible and accessible. Although this is the first report of providing its customers access to the highest possible level of quality, this kind, we seek to establish the continuity of the collection and veribut equally in order for them to adopt corporate values, strengthen fication of information in the report, which is the reason the report has cooperation for mutual benefit and together with HT contribute to the been verified by independent auditors. An external assessment forms community now and in the future. an integral part of this report. In addition, we plan to carry out an audit for following reports. 1.5. This sustainability report focuses on presenting the ways in which HT communicates with its surroundings and the stakeholders, with which 1.9 The sustainability report covers the operations of Hrvatski Telekom it enters into a creative and quality relationship, so as to encourage the d.d. within the Republic of Croatia. The contents of this report cover the exchange of views with the aim of general well-being, as well as to achiactivities of HT d.d., but not all members of the HT Group. It does not in4 introduction / About the Report clude HP d.o.o Mostar, where HT has an ownership interest of 30.29%, The second thematic section presents the principles of management and or HT d.d. Mostar, where HT has an ownership interest of 39.1%, both approach to sustainability. It contains all relevant rules and procedures outside the Republic of Croatia. The operations of its affiliates, Iskon d.o.o. of conduct in approaching corporate social responsibility. It also idenand Combis d.o.o., are not the subject of this report, since these compatifies various significant impacts and risks in operations, which are a nies do not form an integral part of the organization, but rather operate reflection of the themes, inspired by stakeholders and experts, and all as independent companies. Nevertheless, HT actively supports the initiin order to transparently present our approach to sustainable business. atives of corporate social responsibility in these affiliates. Communication with stakeholders is an exceptionally important element of the Company, which is the reason we have presented key stakehol1.10 Given that socially responsible business is HT’s long-term business der groups with whom we exchange opinions on a daily basis. With the strategy, the present report aims at standardization of data in order to presentation of the relevant areas in the report, we have also presented achieve the highest degree of comparability in the future. performance indicators that reflect the long-term effects of our business on sustainability and also the impact on our business. 1.11 To the extent possible, all the data in this report are expressed in Croatian Kuna (HRK). The financial and other performance indicators In the second group we have presented the achieved results in relevant can be found in the Company’s regular financial and other reports on areas: the impact on the community, customer care, the impact on the the Company’s website: www.t.ht.hr/investitori. Other data are expreworkplace, collaboration with suppliers, and the impact on the environssed in the appropriate standard units of measurement, with the use of ment. These are areas in which the Company co-operates with its stakemultiple measurement devices, for example in the field of environmenholders, but also areas of significant importance for the long-term sustatal protection, or an internal procedure of data collection in different inability of the business. organizational units of the Company. The last section clearly sets out the goals for future periods so that stake1.12 The GRI content index is an integral part of this report, which lists holders may evaluate the progress of the Company on the basis of specific GRI indicators and other data relevant to complete reporting of transparent procedures. sustainability. This report and additional information related to information on the sustainability of T-HT’s business activities can be found on the website: www.t.ht.hr/odgovornost. CONTENTS OF THE REPORT 1.13 The report is constructed in line with the guidance for reporters provided by GRI using the materiality principle and the report presents progress in relevant areas that constitute an information base for assessing long-term sustainability principles. The Sustainability Report is basically divided into eight sections within three thematic groups which represent the priorities as defined by the company and of relevance to its key stakeholders: employees, customers, suppliers, investors, government authorities, NGOs and local communities, etc. The first section presents the reporting guidelines and principles, including relevant available information and contacts, in order to facilitate the use of the report, encourage the readers to share opinions, and ultimately, to improve future standards thus meeting the expectations of stakeholders and the general public. 5 introduction / Foreword Statement of the CEO 6 introduction / Foreword Statement of the CEO Foreword Statement of the CEO Dear Stakeholder, It is with great pleasure and pride that I present this introduction to Hrvatski Telecom’s Sustainability Report for 2011. It shows our commitment to sustainability policies and practices which add value for the communities in which we work, for our employees, for our investors, and for all those associated with our company. We see communication, information and entertaintment as fundamental to the working of modern, networked, societies and consider our responsibilites as a good corporate citizen to be a vital part of our profile. We take Corporate Responsibility seriously, recognising that we are a part of an evolving sector, working in an evolving marketplace, and striving to maximise our contributions to the well-being of all in the society in which we operate. We are committed to continued improvement and innovation so that we remain a provider of choice, listening to, and responding to, our customers as they themselves articulate ever more sophisticated demands. In order for technology to work for people, there is a need to strive continually to improve, providing smarter, better integrated, more accessible services. To do this, requires a dedicated, skilled, and trained workforce which derives pride from being a part of our company. We seek to reward talent, innovation and creativity in all our employees, and to foster a team spirit. Above all, we are aware of the emerging challenges in terms of environmental impacts and the need to face these challenges in a way which ensures that we act not as consumers of the earth’s resources, but as guardians and protectors of these resources for our children and our children’s children. We have to take the right decisions, today, knowing that they will have long-term impacts. Improvements in terms of our environmental footprint are a vital part of our commitment to sustainability. Our profile in terms of community engagement, support for non-governmental organisations, and sponsorship of the arts and culture, expresses our concern to enrichen the lives of all citizens of Croatia, to support those with vision and dedication towards the less fortunate in society, and to make art and culture accessible to all. We are commited to transparent and timely reporting on our commitments, our policies, our practices, and our impacts. Our membership of the United Nations Global Compact, and our commitment to reporting according to the 10 core principles, is a key part of this. In addition, this year for the first time, we report in accordance with the standards of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) G3, recognised as the leading, and most demanding, global reporting standard. The framework helps us in clearly defining the boundaries of our reporting, focusing on what matters to our key stakeholders. Using the GRI G3, we join a small number of leading reporters on Corporate Social Responsibility in Croatia. We shall continue to use the latest GRI framework, in the future, in order to benchmark our CSR practices, assessing our progress and reporting honestly on the challenges we face and on our plans for the future. We see this reporting as a crucial part of our communication with all stakeholders, providing answers to key concerns which they may have about who we are, what we do, and how we intend to go forward. The last few years, globally and in Croatia, have been intensely challenging ones. The pace of technological change is unremitting but the incorporation of ever increasing technological possibilities in order to do good for the community as a whole is constantly challenging. At the same time, the impacts of the global economic and financial crisis, and Croatia’s own struggle to maintain sustainable, smart and inclusive growth, have impacted directly on us. We have had to take difficult decisions based, not on short-term considerations, but on our assessment of how we can continue to be a provider of choice, at the cutting edge of developments in all fields of communication. We have a tried and tested governance structure which works hard to maintain the best standards of corporate conduct and to ensure that procedures are in place to deal with emerging risks in a timely and effective manner. At the end of 2010, we brought into force our Anti-corruption policy which provides guidance and sets out standards regarding potential corruption and conflict of interest within the company. It ensures that all those connected with the firm adhere to the highest ethnical standards. We are committed to continuing to improve our procedures, and to educate our workers on this important issue. We are proud of the progress we have made and the steps we have taken to integrate sustainability practices into our company. We are committed to assess and revise these commitments as we learn more and as we receive feedback from our stakeholders. This report is an important part of this process. Your suggestions, comments, criticisms, and concerns are not only welcome, but vital in helping us to continue to improve. Ivica Mudrinić President of the Management Board 7 introduction / Group Profile Group Profile 1.15 Hrvatski Telekom is the sole company in Croatia to offer a full range 1.17 In addition to the provision of fixed telephony services, such as of telecommunication services: it combines the services of fixed and mobile fixed-line access and traffic, as well as fixed network supplementary telephony, data transmission, Internet and international communications. services, HT offers Internet services, including IPTV, data transmission services (lease of lines, Metro-Ethernet, IP/MPLS, ATM) and operates 1.16 The basic scope of business of the Hrvatski Telekom d.d. compawith GSM and UMTS mobile phone networks. ny and other subsidiary companies, comprise provision of telecommunication services, design and construction of communication networks in the territory of the Republic of Croatia. CUSTOMER-ORIENTED ORGANIZATION On 1 October 2004, the Company was re-branded as T-HT, thus becoming a 1.18 Hrvatski Telekom d.d. is a joint-stock company with the majority ownership part of the global Deutsche Telekom “T” family. The change of identity at corof Deutsche Telekom AG (DTAG). Its registered seat is at Savska cesta 32, porate level was followed by the creation of trademarks of two separate busiZagreb. The Company was founded on 28 December 1998 in the Republic ness units of the Group: the fixed network operations business unit, T-Com, of Croatia, pursuant to the provisions of the Act on the Separation of Croatian providing wholesale, Internet and data services, and the mobile operations Post and Telecommunications into Croatian Post and Croatian Telecom, when business unit, T-Mobile. the business operations of the former company Hrvatska pošta i telekomunikacije (HPT s.p.o.) were separated and transferred to two new joint stock compaOn 30 May 2006, HT d.d. acquired 100% of shares of Iskon Internet d.d., one nies: HT-Hrvatske telekomunikacije d.d. (HT d.d.) and HP-Hrvatska pošta d.d. of the leading alternative providers in Croatia. (HP d.d.). The Company started its business operations on 1 January 1999. Pursuant to the provisions of the Act on the Privatization of Hrvatske telekomu1.19 The share capital of the Company amounts to HRK 8,188,853,500.00 and nikacije d.d. (OG 65/99 and 68/01), on 5 October 2007, the Republic of Croais divided into 81,888,535 ordinary shares with a nominal value of HRK 100.00. tia sold 32.5% of the total number of ordinary shares of T-HT by Initial Public Offering (IPO), of which 25% of shares were to Croatian citizens, and 7.5% to In 2011, the revenue of HT d.d. amounted to HRK 7,759,828.109, of which HRK Croatian and foreign institutional investors. 7,476,180.222 gained from its core activities. The Company’s share capital is HRK 8,188,853.500 and the total capital and reserves HRK 11,162,721.598. The After the sale of shares to present and former employees of Hrvatski Telekom liabilities of Hrvatski Telekom amount to HRK 1,950,348.007. and Hrvatska pošta in June 2008, the Government of the Republic of Croatia reduced its holding from 9.5% to 3.5%, while private and institutional inves1.20 Pursuant to the provisions of the Act on the Privatization of Hrvatske telekotors hold a 38.5% share. munikacije d.d. (OG no. 65/99 and no. 68/01), on 5 October 1999 the Republic of Croatia sold 35% of the shares of HT d.d. to DTAG, and on 25 October 2001 October 2009 saw the signing of the agreement on the merger of T-Mobile DTAG acquired a further 16% of the HT d.d. shares and thus became the Hrvatska to HT-Hrvatske telekomunikacije d.d. The merger was entered into majority shareholder with a 51% share. On 17 February 2005 the Government the court register on 31 December 2009 and on the expiry of the date of regiof the Republic of Croatia transferred 7% of HT d.d.’s shares to the Fund for stration the effects of the merger came into force, after which T-Mobile ceased Croatian Homeland War Veterans and Members of Their Families pursuant to to exist. From 1 January 2010, the new organization of the Company entered the Act on the Privatization of HT d.d. (OG no. 65/99 and no. 8/2001). into force and the Company was organized into a business unit for residential customers and a business unit for business customers. 1.21 In 2002, HT mobilne komunikacije d.o.o. (HTmobile) was established as a separate legal entity and a subsidiary fully owned by HT d.d., for the provision On 28 March 2010, Hrvatski Telekom signed an Agreement on the Sale and of mobile telecommunication services. HTmobile started its business operaTransfer of Business Share and acquired the entire share capital of Combis, tions on 1 January 2003, and in October 2004 it officially changed its name to usluge integracija informatičkih tehnologija, d.o.o. (Combis). T-Mobile Hrvatska d.o.o. (T-Mobile). 8 introduction / Group Profile The last status of the ten largest shareholders of the Company may be found In May 2010, the name of the Company was officially changed from HT-Hrvatske on the website of the Central Depository and Clearing Company (enter the telekomunikacije d.d. to Hrvatski Telekom d.d. HT-R-A code in the browser). On 17 May 2010, HT d.d. completed the acquisition of Combis d.o.o., thereby The Company’s shares were included in the depository of the Central Depoextending its reach into the provision of IT support and services for a customer sitory and Clearing Company on 12 July 2002. The Company’s shares were base that ranges from small business to governmental institutions. listed on the Zagreb Stock Exchange market on 5 October 2007. Global depositary receipts (GDRs), each representing one (1) HT share, were listed on the 1.22 According to the list of ten largest shareholders of the Company issued London Stock Exchange on 5 October 2007. by the Central Depository and Clearing Company, on 31 December 2011 significant holders of shares in the Company were as follows: Further information about our business, including ownership structure, financial statements for the period between 2000 to 2011, publications for financial • DTAG is the majority shareholder with a proprietary interest of 51% of markets and other information relating to our business is publicly available on the total issued shares the following website: http://www.t.ht.hr/investitori/ • The Fund for Croatian Homeland War Veterans and Members of Their Families is a shareholder with a 7.0% share • The Raiffeisen Mandatory Pension Fund (obvezni mirovinski fond) holds 5.3% of shares (without possible possession of GDRs) • The Pensioners’ Fund holds 3.5% of shares • Other domestic and foreign investors hold the remaining 33.2% of shares. 9 introduction / Memberships, awards and recognitions Memberships, awards and recognitions • Member, European Telecommunications Network Operators’ • The HT Iinfrastructure Telecom Services Sector received the award Association (ETNO) for the promotion and implementation of quality in Croatian economy • Member, United Nations Global Compact for 2011, awarded by the Croatian Society for Quality. • In 2011, for three years in succession, HT was included in the • Poslovni dnevnik’s award (runner-up) for best relations with investors CEERIUS Sustainability Index for 2012, the sustainability index of • Oekom Research AG, one of the world’s leading research and rating the Vienna Stock Exchange for the CEE region which includes the analysis agencies on the basis of which basic starting points in the shares of the leading companies in terms of social and ecological segment of sustainable development and investment are created quality, as well as economic impact. included T-HT in the PRIME category of companies based on the • Hrvatska Udruga Poslodavaca (Croatian Employers Association), conducted research and analysis. This means that investing in the direct member of the CEA. CEO is a member of the CEA Council, shares of T-HT is seen as socially and environmentally founded and CEA Executive Committee and the CEA Member’s Council. is recommended to clients. • Hrvatska gospodarska komora (Croatian Chamber of Economy), • Trusted Brand Hrvatska 2011, award by Reader’s Digest. Annual member of the Assembly, participates in the work of the Annual award Index DOP-a (CSR Index) for 2011 in the category large Assembly companies for achievements in socially responsible business • Nacionalno vijeće za konkurentnost (National Competitiveness • Employer of first choice in the IT field, according to the 2011 Council), member (CEO) annual research of the portal Moj Posao • The International Academy of Television Arts & Sciences, an international council comprising distinguished international leaders from the field of broadcasting companies, art, science, based in New York, member (CEO) 10 introduction / GRI3.1 indicators content index GRI3.1 indicators content index The tabular presentation of GRI G3 indicators, which forms an integral part of this report, refers to parts of text relating to certain indicators of progress according to the guidelines of the GRI reporting framework. We also included notes on the indicators for which data are not available or fully available, those which the requested data could not be collected or the information is confidential. Also, the data for some indicators represent a management approach used in all segments of our business, so that the same information appears in several places within the report. 1.24 TABLE OF INDICATORS GRI 3.1. G3.1 Content Index GRI Application Level B Application Level B Assured by STANDARD DISCLOSURES PART I: Profile Disclosures Profile Description Reported Cross-reference/ Reason for Explanation Direct answer omission 1. Strategy and Analysis 1.1 Statement from the most senior decision-maker of Fully 1.14. the organization. 1.2 Description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities. Fully Risk management 2.40.-2.67.; CSR strategy aspects 2.26.-2.29.; Organisation, implementation and approach 2.7.-2.22.; Targets 8.1.-8.3. 2. Organizational Profile 2.1 Name of the organization. Fully 1.18. 2.2 Primary brands, products, and/or services. Fully 1.15.-1.17. 2.3 Operational structure of the organization, including Fully 2.7.-2.9. main divisions, operating companies, subsidiaries, and joint ventures. 2.4 Location of organization's headquarters. Fully 1.18. 2.5 Number of countries where the organization Fully In Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina, operates, and names of countries with either major 1.9., 2.9., for broader analysis of the largoperations or that are specifically relevant to the est shareholder, see http://www.cr-report. sustainability issues covered in the report. telekom.com/site12/national-companies 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form. Fully 1.18.-1.22. 2.7 Markets served (including geographic breakdown, Fully 1.15.-1.17., 3.4. sectors served, and types of customers/beneficiaries). 2.8 Scale of the reporting organization. Fully Financial and economic info 1.19., 2.68. Additionally, extensive financial and business information regularly submitted to investors, available online on http://www.t.ht. hr/investitori/2011AR/izvjesce2011.asp# ; Employees 5.32., 5.8.; Additional info on services 3.4. 2.9 Significant changes during the reporting period Fully 1.21.-1.22. regarding size, structure, or ownership. 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period. Fully 1.23. 11 introduction / GRI3.1 indicators content index G3.1 Content Index GRI Application Level B Application Level B Assured by STANDARD DISCLOSURES PART I: Profile Disclosures Profile Description Reported Cross-reference/ Reason for Explanation Direct answer omission 3. Report Parameters 3.1 Reporting period (e.g., fiscal/calendar year) Fully 1.7., 1.8. for information provided. 3.2 Date of most recent previous report (if any). Fully 1.6. 3.3 Reporting cycle (annual, biennial, etc.) Fully 1.7. 3.4 Contact point for questions regarding the report Fully 1.27. or its contents. 3.5 Process for defining report content. Partially 1.13.-1.14.; 2.26.-2.28.; 2.60. Does not This is the first report of the organisation exist applying the GRI reporting standards, therefore the guidelines for defining report content are to be synchronised with existing CSR practices and progress will be reported upon in future reports 3.6 Boundary of the report (e.g., countries, divisions, subFully 1.9., 2.9. sidiaries, leased facilities, joint ventures, suppliers). See GRI Boundary Protocol for further guidance. 3.7 State any specific limitations on the scope or Fully 1.8-1.11. boundary of the report (see completeness principle for explanation of scope). 3.8 Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, Fully 19 leased facilities, outsourced operations, and other entities that can significantly affect comparability from period to period and/or between organizations. 3.9 Data measurement techniques and the bases of Fully 1.11. All information structured to achieve calculations, including assumptions and techniques comparability in future, particularly underlying estimations applied to the compilation according to GRI standard. Additionally, of the Indicators and other information in the report. regular financial and business informaExplain any decisions not to apply, or to substantion released to shareholders tially diverge from, the GRI Indicator Protocols. and stakeholders. 3.10 Explanation of the effect of any re-statements of Fully This is the organization’s first sustaininformation provided in earlier reports, and the ability report based on GRI indicators reasons for such re-statement (e.g.,mergers/acquisitions, change of base years/periods, nature of business, measurement methods). 3.11 Significant changes from previous reporting Fully This is the organization’s first sustainperiods in the scope, boundary, or measurement ability report based on GRI indicators methods applied in the report. 3.12 Table identifying the location of the Standard Fully 1.12., 1.24. Disclosures in the report. 3.13 Policy and current practice with regard to seeking Fully 1.8.,1.26 external assurance for the report. 4. Governance, Commitments, and Engagement 4.1 Governance structure of the organization, incluFully 1.14.; 2.7.-2.25. ding committees under the highest governance body responsible for specific tasks, such as setting strategy or organizational oversight. 4.2 Indicate whether the Chair of the highest governance Fully 2.10.; 2.13., 2.14. body is also an executive officer. 12 introduction / GRI3.1 indicators content index 4. Governance, Commitments, and Engagement continue 4.3 For organizations that have a unitary board strucFully Not applicable Not applicable due to the fact the HT has ture, state the number and gender of members of a two-tier based structure. the highest governance body that are independent and/or non-executive members. 4.4 Mechanisms for shareholders and employees Fully 2.16.-2.25.; 2.35.-2.38.; 5.51.-5.54. to provide recommendations or direction to the highest governance body. 4.5 Linkage between compensation for members of Fully 2.16.; 5.45. Compensation linked to added value the highest governance body, senior managers, and performance, no direct link to and executives (including departure arrangesocial and environmental indicators. ments), and the organization's performance (inFor senior executives, the largest cluding social and environmental performance). shareholder DT, developed a global strategy, for more info, see http://www. cr-report.telekom.com/site12/ employees/competitive-workforce/ remuneration#atn-1389-2570. Additional information and benchmark analysis available online on http://www.cr-report. telekom.com/site12/facts-figures 4.6 Processes in place for the highest governance Fully 2.16. 2.28 body to ensure conflicts of interest are avoided. 4.7 Process for determining the composition, Fully 2.14 2.16 “CSR strategy is integral to business develoqualifications, and expertise of the members of pment strategy, hence embedded in the the highest governance body and its committees, evolution of highest governance bodies. including any consideration of gender and other There is a separate renumeration and indicators of diversity. selection committee with the supervisory board, charged with transparency in the selection process and business practices. There have never been issues relating to equal opportunities and/or diversity. Additionally, the company follows the strict guidelines of the antidiscriminaton Act and other legal requirements“ 4.8 Internally developed statements of mission or Fully 2.32., 2.39. All statements and documents implemented values, codes of conduct, and principles relevant to economic, environmental, and social performance and the status of their implementation. 4.9 Procedures of the highest governance body for Fully CSR data collection and reporting overseeing the organization's identification and coordinated by PR Department; high management of economic, environmental, and governance body for social and environsocial performance, including relevant risks and mental performance not yet existing. The opportunities, and adherence or compliance management board (This Report: 2.13) with internationally agreed standards, codes of follows the KPI indicators which influconduct, and principles. ence the decision making process. In addition, the board, on an ad hoc basis deals with these issues on a regularly. 4.10 Processes for evaluating the highest governance Fully CSR data collection and reporting body's own performance, particularly with respect coordinated by PR Department; high to economic, environmental, and social performance. governance body for social and environmental performance not yet existing. Self evaluation mechanism is connected to the management approach and the evaluation of the largest shareholder. Despite the lack of an official procedure, this is linked to KPI performace. 4.11 Explanation of whether and how the precautioFully 2 40 The organisation has an internal procedure nary approach or principle is addressed by the for risk evaluation of various business opeorganization. rations, and releases relevant information on a regular basis as a listed member of various stock exchanges, and international organisations, such as Global Compact. 13 introduction / GRI3.1 indicators content index 4. Governance, Commitments, and Engagement continue 4.12 Externally developed economic, environmental, Fully 1.23.; 2.39. and social charters, principles, or other initiatives to which the organization subscribes or endorses. 4.13 Memberships in associations (such as industry asFully 1.23., 2.39. sociations) and/or national/international advocacy organizations in which the organization: * Has positions in governance bodies; * Participates in projects or committees; * Provides substantive funding beyond routine membership dues; or * Views membership as strategic. 4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the Fully 2.60. organization. 4.15 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholFully 2.59., 2.60. ders with whom to engage. 4.16 Approaches to stakeholder engagement, incluFully 2.59.; 2.60. The company is in regular contact with ding frequency of engagement by type and by stakeholders. (This report: 2.40) There stakeholder group. is no formal monitoring mechanism for frequency of engagement by type and by group. 4.17 Key topics and concerns that have been raised Fully 2.59.; 2.60. Despite this being the first GRI based through stakeholder engagement, and how the report, stakeholders have been extenorganization has responded to those key topics sively and continuously consulted on and concerns, including through its reporting. various issues relevant to the business. The report presents the most important issues identified, but the next edition should report on this section in more detail as more structured information becomes available. 14 introduction / GRI3.1 indicators content index STANDARD DISCLOSURES PART II: Disclosures on Management Approach (DMAs) G31.DMAs Description Reported Cross-reference/Direct answer Further comments DMA EC Disclosure on Management Approach EC Aspects Economic performance Fully Management and organisation approach Chapter 2. Market presence Fully Management and organisation approach Chapter 2. Indirect economic impacts Fully Management and organisation approach Chapter 2. DMA EN Disclosure on Management Approach EN Aspects Materials Fully Management and organisation approach Chapter 2; 4.8.-4.14.; 7.1.-7.16. Energy Fully Management and organisation approach Chapter 2.; 4.8.-4.14.; 7.1.-7.16. Water Fully Management and organisation approach Chapter 2.; 4.8.-4.14.; 7.1.-7.16. Biodiversity Fully Management and organisation approach Chapter 2; 4.8.-4.14.; 7.1.-7.16. Emissions, effluents and waste Fully Management and organisation approach Chapter 2; 4.8.-4.14.; 7.1.-7.16.; 7.53. Products and services Fully Management and organisation approach Chapter 2; 4.8.-4.14.; 7.1.-7.16. Compliance Fully Management and organisation approach Chapter 2; 4.8.-4.14.; 7.1.-7.16. Transport Fully Management and organisation approach Chapter 2; 4.8.-4.14.; 7.1.-7.16. Overall Fully Management and organisation approach Chapter 2; 4.8.-4.14.; 7.1.-7.16. DMA LA Disclosure on Management Approach LA Aspects Employment Fully Chapter 2.; 5.1.-5.3. Labor/management relations Fully Chapter 2.; 5.1.-5.3.; 5.51.-5.55. Occupational health and safety Fully Chapter 2; 5.1.-5.3.; 5.10.-5.20. Training and education Fully Chapter 2; 5.1.-5.3.; 5.21.-5.32. Diversity and equal opportunity Fully Chapter 2; 5.1.-5.3.; 5.33.-5.35.; 5.58.-5.62. Equal remuneration for women and men Fully Chapter 2; 5.1.-5.3.; 5.36.-5.46. DMA HR Disclosure on Management Approach HR Aspects Investment and procurement practices Fully Chapter 2; 6.1.-6.5.; 6.7.-6.17. Non-discrimination Fully Chapter 2; 6.1.-6.5.; 6.7.-6.17. Freedom of association and collective bargaining Fully Chapter 2.; 5.1.-5.3.; 5.51.-5.55. Child labor Fully Chapter 2 (2.30.2.49. in particular) Prevention of forced and compulsory labor Fully Chapter 2 (2.30.2.49. in particular) Security practices Fully Chapter 2 Indigenous rights Not Assessment Fully Chapter 2; 5.58.-5.61. Remediation Fully Chapter 2; 5.58.-5.61. 15 introduction / GRI3.1 indicators content index DMA SO Disclosure on Management Approach SO Aspects Local communities Fully Chapter 2; 3.1.-3.3. Corruption Fully 2.41.-2.49. Public policy Fully 2.41.-2.49. Anti-competitive behavior Fully 2.61.-2.67. Compliance Fully Chapter 2 (2.61-2.67. in particular) DMA PR Disclosure on Management Approach PR Aspects Customer health and safety Fully Chapter 2 (2.55.-2.58. in particular); 3.11.-3.17.; 4.1.-4.12. Product and service labelling Fully Chapter 2; 4.1.-4.7. Marketing communications Fully Chapter 2; 3.11.-3.17.; 4.15.-4.22. Customer privacy Fully Chapter 2 (2.50.-2.54) Compliance Fully Chapter 2; Chapter 3. various; 4.16.-4.22. 16 introduction / GRI3.1 indicators content index STANDARD DISCLOSURES PART III: Performance Indicators Economic PerforDescription Reported Cross-reference/Direct answer mance Indicator Economic performance EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed, including revenues, operating Partially 2.68.-2.71., 3.20. costs, employee compensation, donations and other community investments, retained earnings, and payments to capital providers and governments. EC2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the organization's Not Limited information available at this reporting stage activities due to climate change. EC3 Coverage of the organization's defined benefit plan obligations. Partially 5.56., 5.57.; Legally regulated, applicable to all business subjects in Croatia. EC4 Significant financial assistance received from government. Fully 2.71. Market presence EC5 Range of ratios of standard entry level wage by gender compared to local minimum Fully 5.36., 5.44. wage at significant locations of operation. EC6 Policy, practices, and proportion of spending on locally-based suppliers at significant Not Not applicable locations of operation. EC7 Procedures for local hiring and proportion of senior management hired from the Fully 5.40.-5.42. local community at significant locations of operation. Indirect economic impacts EC8 Development and impact of infrastructure investments and services provided Fully 3.4., 3.20.-3.25., 4.7. primarily for public benefit through commercial, in-kind, or pro bono engagement. EC9 Understanding and describing significant indirect economic impacts, including Partially 2.40.-2.58. the extent of impacts. Environmental Materials EN1 Materials used by weight or volume. Fully 7.16., 7.17. EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials. Not Information not available Energy EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary energy source. Fully 7.21.-7.26. EN4 Indirect energy consumption by primary source. Fully 7.25.-7.28. EN5 Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency improvements. Partially 7.18.-7.20.; Limited info due to industry specific energy requirements EN6 Initiatives to provide energy-efficient or renewable energy based products and Partially Industry competition in terms of suppliers of services, and reductions in energy requirements as a result of these initiatives. telecommunication equipment means that competitive products are constantly more efficent in terms of energy use. In addition, all major equipment suppliers meet EU standards. Therefore, the company uses continously competitive products, but has no direct control over the process. EN7 Initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption and reductions achieved. Partially 7.18.-7.20.; 7.27.-7.34. Water EN8 Total water withdrawal by source. Fully 7.35., 7.36. EN9 Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of water. Not No impact, as not related to the business process EN10 Percentage and total volume of water recycled and reused. Not Not applicable. 17 introduction / GRI3.1 indicators content index Environmental PerforDescription Reported Cross-reference/Direct answer mance Indicator Biodiversity EN11 Location and size of land owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to, protected Not Information not available areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas. EN12 Description of significant impacts of activities, products, and services on biodiverPartially 7.63.-7.66. sity in protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas. EN13 Habitats protected or restored. Not Information not available EN14 Strategies, current actions, and future plans for managing impacts on biodiversity. Fully 7.65. EN15 Number of IUCN Red List species and national conservation list species with Not Information not available habitats in areas affected by operations, by level of extinction risk. Emissions, effluents and waste EN16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight. Fully 7.39. EN17 Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight. Fully 7.38., 7.39. EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and reductions achieved. Fully 7.46.-7.54. EN19 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances by weight. Partially Not applicable, but energy efficiency initiatives present. EN20 NOx, SOx, and other significant air emissions by type and weight. Fully 7.45.-7.50. EN21 Total water discharge by quality and destination. Fully 7.35., 7.36., 7.51., 7.52. EN22 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method. Fully 7.54.-7.55. EN23 Total number and volume of significant spills. Fully 7.13. EN24 Weight of transported, imported, exported, or treated waste deemed hazardous Not Information presented according to Croatian legislative under the terms of the Basel Convention Annex I, II, III, and VIII, and percentage of requirements. transported waste shipped internationally. EN25 Identity, size, protected status, and biodiversity value of water bodies and related Not Not applicable to business operations habitats significantly affected by the reporting organization's discharges of water and runoff. Products and services EN26 Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of products and services, and extent Partially 7.56.-7.62.; Infrastructure investments are service of impact mitigation. improvements, see 4.8. EN27 Percentage of products sold and their packaging materials that are reclaimed Partially 7.56.-7.62. by category. Compliance EN28 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions Fully 7.13.; 7.67. for non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations. Transport EN29 Significant environmental impacts of transporting products and other goods Not Limited information available at this reporting stage and materials used for the organization's operations, and transporting members of the workforce. Overall EN30 Total environmental protection expenditures and investments by type. Not Limited information available at this reporting stage 18 introduction / GRI3.1 indicators content index Social: Labor Practices and Decent Work PerforDescription Reported Cross-reference/Direct answer mance Indicator Employment LA1 Total workforce by employment type, employment contract, and region, broken Fully 5.4., 5.8. down by gender. LA2 Total number and rate of new employee hires and employee turnover by age group, Partially 5.4., 5.9. gender, and region. LA3 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or partFully 5.6., 5.28., 5.29., 5.31., 5.45., 5.46., 5.47.-5.50., time employees, by major operations. 5.56.-5.62. LA15 Return to work and retention rates after parental leave, by gender. Fully 5.37., 5.38. Labor/management relations LA4 Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements. Fully 5.54. LA5 Minimum notice period(s) regarding significant operational changes, including Fully 5.55. whether it is specified in collective agreements. Occupational health and safety LA6 Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint management-worker Fully 5.10.-5.18.; Regulated by Croatian legislative provihealth and safety committees that help monitor and advise on occupational sions, implemented fully. health and safety programs. LA7 Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and number of Not Limited information available at this reporting stage work-related fatalities by region and by gender. LA8 Education, training, counseling, prevention, and risk-control programs in place to Fully 5.28.; 5.29.; 5.39.; 5.48.; 5.49., 5.50., 5.58.-5.62. assist workforce members, their families, or community members regarding serious diseases. LA9 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade unions. Fully 5 18 Training and education LA10 Average hours of training per year per employee by gender, and by employee Fully 5.22., 5.24. category. LA11 Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that support the continued Fully 5 24, 5 6 employability of employees and assist them in managing career endings. LA12 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development Fully 5.30.-5.33. reviews, by gender. Diversity and equal opportunity LA13 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per employee Fully 5.32.-5.35. category according to gender, age group, minority group membership, and other indicators of diversity. Equal remuneration for women and men LA14 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men by employee category, Fully 5.36. by significant locations of operation. 19 introduction / GRI3.1 indicators content index Social: Human Rights PerforDescription Reported Cross-reference/Direct answer mance Indicator Investment and procurement practices HR1 Percentage and total number of significant investment agreements and contracts Not Human rights not an issue in Croatia, but all business that include clauses incorporating human rights concerns, or that have undergone operations include provisions of the code of conduct. human rights screening. Supplier cooperation includes screening for HR issues. Further development of HR consideration in business operations planned HR2 Percentage of significant suppliers, contractors and other business partners that Not Human rights not an issue in Croatia, but all business have undergone human rights screening, and actions taken. operations include provisions of the code of conduct. Supplier cooperation includes screening for HR issues. Further development of HR consideration in business operations planned HR3 Total hours of employee training on policies and procedures concerning aspects of Not Human rights not an issue in Croatia, but all business human rights that are relevant to operations, including the percentage of employees operations include provisions of the code of conduct. trained. Supplier cooperation includes screening for HR issues. Further development of HR consideration in business operations planned Non-discrimination HR4 Total number of incidents of discrimination and actions taken. Fully 5.62. Freedom of association and collective bargaining HR5 Operations and significant suppliers identified in which the right to exercise freedom Not Human rights not an issue in Croatia, but further of association and collective bargaining may be violated or at significant risk, and development of HR consideration in business operaactions taken to support these rights. tions planned. However, the supplier screening process ensures all HR aspects are examined and more. Child labor HR6 Operations and significant suppliers identified as having significant risk for inciNot Human rights not an issue in Croatia, but further dedents of child labor, and measures taken to contribute to the effective abolition velopment of HR consideration in business operations of child labor. planned. Considering the strict requirements of the supplier screening procedure, any indication of such practices would be immediately sanctioned. Forced and compulsory labor HR7 Operations and significant suppliers identified as having significant risk for Not Not applicable in Croatia. See above. incidents of forced or compulsory labor, and measures to contribute to the elimination of all forms of forced or compulsory labor. Security practices HR8 Percentage of security personnel trained in the organization's policies or proceNot Not applicable, see above. dures concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations. Indigenous rights HR9 Total number of incidents of violations involving rights of indigenous people and Not Not applicable in Croatia. See above. actions taken. Assessment HR10 Percentage and total number of operations that have been subject to human rights Partially 6.1.-6.14.; Human rights not an issue in Croatia, but all reviews and/or impact assessments. business operations include provisions of the code of conduct. Supplier cooperation includes screening for HR issues. Further development of HR consideration in business operations planned Remediation HR11 “Number of grievances related to human rights filed, addressed and resolved Fully 6.14. through formal grievance mechanisms.” 20 introduction / GRI3.1 indicators content index Social: Society PerforDescription Reported Cross-reference/Direct answer mance Indicator Local communities SO1 Percentage of operations with implemented local community engagement, Not Local community engagement is active. However, impact assessments, and development programs. development programmes are planned for further development. SO9 Operations with significant potential or actual negative impacts on local communities. Not Not applicable due to industry telecommunications have significant positive and broad impact on the entire community and society as a whole. SO10 Prevention and mitigation measures implemented in operations with significant Not See above potential or actual negative impacts on local communities. Corruption SO2 Percentage and total number of business units analyzed for risks related to Fully 2.41.-2.49.; 5.60., 5.61.; 6.1.-6.17. corruption. SO3 Percentage of employees trained in organization's anti-corruption policies and Partially 2.47.-2.49. procedures. SO4 Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption. Fully 2.46. Public policy SO5 Public policy positions and participation in public policy development and Fully 2.46. lobbying. SO6 Total value of financial and in-kind contributions to political parties, politicians, Fully Not applicable, due to company policy (2.46.) and related institutions by country. Anti-competitive behavior SO7 Total number of legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, and Not Even tough the organization has specialized unit that monopoly practices and their outcomes. manages antitrust issues/risks and releases relevant information on a regular basis as requered by applicable laws, no measurement methodology is implemented for this indicator. Compliance SO8 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions Fully 2.66. for non-compliance with laws and regulations. 21 introduction / GRI3.1 indicators content index Social: Product Responsibility PerforDescription Reported Cross-reference/Direct answer mance Indicator Customer health and safety PR1 Life cycle stages in which health and safety impacts of products and services are Not Not applicable assessed for improvement, and percentage of significant products and services categories subject to such procedures. PR2 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary Not No information available. codes concerning health and safety impacts of products and services during their life cycle, by type of outcomes. Product and service labelling PR3 Type of product and service information required by procedures, and percentage Not Not applicable of significant products and services subject to such information requirements. PR4 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary Not Not applicable codes concerning product and service information and labeling, by type of outcomes. PR5 Practices related to customer satisfaction, including results of surveys measuring Fully 4.16.. 4.17., 4.22.-4.24. customer satisfaction. Marketing communications PR6 Programs for adherence to laws, standards, and voluntary codes related to marPartially 4.3.; Internal codes of conduct and marketing and keting communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship. advertising standards developed. PR7 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary Fully 4.3., 4.4.; 4.18.-4.21. codes concerning marketing communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship by type of outcomes. Customer privacy PR8 Total number of substantiated complaints regarding breaches of customer Not No information available. privacy and losses of customer data. Compliance PR9 Monetary value of significant fines for non-compliance with laws and regulations Fully 4.3., 4.4. concerning the provision and use of products and services. 22 introduction / Progress report GC Progress report GC Once again, Hrvatski Telekom continues the practice of reporting on progress according to the principles of the United Nations Global Compact. In this year’s report the progress is represented by links between two complementary reporting standards, with the awareness that there is a clear and confirmed link between the principles of Global Compact and GRI indicators. More information on the relationship between the ten Global Compact principles and GRI G3 indicators is presented on the GRI website1. Field The principle of Global Compact GRI3 indicator Chapter in this report HUMAN RIGHTS 1 Businesses should support and respect the protection of EC5, LA4, LA6 5.36,5.44,5.54, internationally proclaimed human rights within their area of LA8,LA9,LA13-14, HR15.10,5.18, operations. 9, SO5, , 5.28,5.29,5.39,5.49,5.50, 5.58-5.62,5.18 5.32-5.35,5.36 6.1-6.14 2.46 2 Businesses should not engage in violations of human rights. HR4, SO5 6.1.-6.14, 2.46 LABOUR 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the LA4-5, , SO5 5.54, 5.55,2.46 RIGHTS effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. 4 Businesses should support the elimination of all forms of SO5 2.46 compulsory labour. 5 Businesses should support the effective abolition of child labour. SO5 2.46 6 Businesses should support the elimination of discrimination in EC7, LA2, LA13-14, 7.18-7.20,7.27-7.34 respect of employment and occupation. HR4, SO5 5.4,5.9,,5.32-5.35,5.36, 5.62,2.46 ENVIRONMENT 7 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to enviEN18, EN26, EN30, 7.46-7.54, ronmental challenges. SO5 7.56-7.82,2.46 8 Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater EN1, EN3-8, 7.1-7.87,2.46 environmental responsibility. EN12,EN14,EN1623,EN26-28,, SO5, 9 Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion EN5-7, EN18, EN26-27, 7.18-7.20,7.27-7.34,7.46-7.54,7.56-7.82,2.46 of environmentally friendly technologies. SO5 FIGHT AGAINST 10 Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, SO2-6 2.41.-2.49.,5.60.,5.61.; 6.1.-6.17. CORRUPTION including extortion and bribery. 2.47-.2.49,2.46 1) http://www.globalreporting.org/griportal/GRI/G3Online/frmManagementNorms.aspx 23 introduction / External assessment External assessment Independent Limited Assurance Report ethical requirements and plan and perform the assurance engagement to obtain limited assurance on HT’s self-declaration of the B+ GRI Application To the Management Board of Hrvatski Telekom d.d. Level in the 2011 Sustainability Report. Introduction Summary of the work performed We have performed assurance procedures to provide independent limited Our procedures included examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to assurance on the Sustainability Report of Hrvatski Telekom d.d. (“HT”) (collHT’s self-declaration level in the 2011 Sustainability Report. It also included ectively “HT”) for the year ended December 31, 2011 (the “2011 Sustainabian assessment of the significant estimates and judgements made by manality Report”). gement in the preparation of the 2011 Sustainability Report. The evidence gathering procedures were more limited than they would be on a reasonable Scope and subject matter assurance engagement and, so, less assurance was obtained than would be Our limited assurance engagement focused on HT’s self-declaration that it on a reasonable assurance engagement. has achieved a B+ application level as established by the Global Reporting Initiative (“GRI Application Level“) as stated in section 1.24 and based on the Our work consisted of: disclosures and performance indicators included in the GRI summary table • Conducting interviews with management to evaluate the application of on pages 11 to 22 of the 2011 Sustainability Report. GRI guidelines and to understand the control environment related to sustainability reporting, Reporting criteria • Conducting inquiries of employees responsible for reporting sustainaWe assessed the level of disclosures against the Sustainability Reporting Guibility information, delines Vol. 3.1 issued by the Global Reporting Initiative (“GRI Guidelines”). • Obtaining an understanding of the processes for generating, aggregating and reporting sustainability information, Management’s responsibility • Evaluating the data generation and reporting process against the repoThe accuracy and completeness of the information presented in the 2011 rting criteria, Sustainability Report are subject to inherent limitations given the nature and • Performing testing, on a sample basis, of the accuracy of disclosures, methods for determining, calculating and estimating data for such reporting. including examining internal and external documents, Management of HT is responsible for the selection and application of the • Reviewing the GRI summary table to consider management’s assertion reporting criteria to determine the self-declared GRI application level. HT’s regarding the application of the GRI guidelines. management is responsible for the preparation and presentation of the 2011 Sustainability Report in accordance with the reporting criteria, using assumpThe nature and extent of our procedures were determined based on our risk tions and estimations that are appropriate under the given circumstances. HT’s assessment and our professional judgment in order to obtain limited assurance. management is also responsible for designing, implementing and maintainWe believe that the evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate ing internal controls relevant to the preparation of a Sustainability Report to provide a basis for our limited assurance conclusion. that is free of material misstatement, selecting and applying appropriate reporting principles, using measurement methods and estimates that are reasonable Inherent limitations in the circumstances and maintaining adequate records. Non-financial data is subject to more inherent limitations than financial data, given both the nature and the methods used for determining, calculating, Our responsibility sampling or estimating such data. Qualitative interpretations of relevance, Our responsibility is to form an independent conclusion, based on our limited materiality and the accuracy of data are subject to individual assumptions assurance procedures, on whether anything has come to our attention to indiand judgments. cate that HT’s self-declared application level in the 2011 Sustainability Report is not stated, in all material respects, in accordance with the reporting criteria. We have not carried out any work on data reported for prior reporting periods We conducted our engagement in accordance with the International Standard nor in respect of future projections and targets. We have not conducted any on Assurance Engagements 3000, Assurance Engagements other than Audits work outside of the agreed scope and therefore restrict our conclusion to the or Reviews of Historical Information. This Standard requires that we comply with subject matter defined above. 24 introduction / External assessment Limited assurance conclusion Based on our work described in this report, nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe that HT’s self-declaration of the B+ GRI Application Level in the 2011 Sustainability Report is not stated, in all material respects, in accordance with the reporting criteria. Restriction of use and distribution This report, including the conclusion, has been prepared soley for the Management Board of HT, to assist them in reporting on HT’s sustainability performance and activities. We consent to the inclusion of this report in the 2011 Sustainability Report to enable the Management Board to show they have met their governance responsibilities by commissioning an independent assurance report in connection with the selected subject matter. We do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Management Board and HT for our work or this report, unless expressly agreed with our prior consent in writing. PricewaterhouseCoopers d.o.o. Zagreb, 6 November 2012 25 introduction / External assessment 26 introduction / Contacts and help in using this report Contacts and help in using this report 1.27 The Sustainability Report presents the results of activities of Hrvatski Telekom during the reporting period. In this sense we wish to encourage the stakeholders to give their comments and opinions on the Company’s progress in the field of responsible business. For any information, comments and opinions, please contact Maja Weber Public Relations Department Corporate Communications and Investor Relations Sector Hrvatski Telekom d.d. Savska cesta 32 10 000 Zagreb Tel. + 385 1 4912 100 Fax. + 385 1 4912 133 e-mail: pr@t.ht.hr 27 Artist: Viktor Popović Art piece: No name T-HTnagrada@msu.hr competition, 2011 Strategy and management Strategy and management / Values and management Values and management 2.1 MISSION OF THE T-HT GROUP a set of rules that we must obey, but as values that motivate, inspire and absorb Communication, Information & Entertainment Always and Everywhere us with positive energy. They drive each of us to achieve exceptional results as Communication is a basic human need and information and communication individuals, in our teams and united together as a company. technologies offer countless possibilities for communicating informing, socializing, and keeping in touch. 2.4 Our Guiding Principles are: Our lives are becoming increasingly networked, with more and more people • Customer delight drives our action communicating in highly direct ways through virtual forums and international • Respect and integrity guide our behaviour platforms. Enormous volumes of data are uploaded to the Internet and viewed • Team together Team apart daily, while virtual communities attract millions of new members every month • Best place to perform and grow through social networks. Communications is fully tailored to people’s needs, • I am T count on me and networking is possible at any given moment via various devices. Checking e-mail and using the Internet is a part of our everyday life. The Internet IMPLEMENTATION has revolutionised the way we spend our free time and the way we do business. 2.5 The mission and vision of HT are fully followed, not only in communication We take for granted the fact that we can access the Internet at home, in the offibut also in everything we work on from the products and services the Company ce and on our mobile phones and we are constantly demanding faster access offers (such as MAXtv, MAXtv to go, MAXadsl, tportal, Mobile Internet, iPhone and an even better quality of service. and smartphone tariffs), to communication channels (including Twitter and Facebook), all this in order to underline the key message of being connected 2.2 VISION OF THE T-HT GROUP at any time. T-HT a leader in connecting people on a personal and professional level Today the possibilities are endless. Technology is here to make our lives easier, 2.6 In the field of internal communication, mission, vision, strategy, and corpohelps us solve problems faster, leave us more free time and make our lives a rate values are each year communicated through an established procedure, the lot more fun. We can do business on our way to the airport, watch our favourite so-called Management Forum in which the HT’s Management Board commuTV show on the screen of a mobile phone and stay in touch with our families, nicates directly with the management, which then forwards the received messfriends and colleagues using mobile and Internet-based services to share our age to its employees. The communication itself and its performance are then experiences, ideas, and thoughts. evaluated through an intranet survey sent to all employees. The survey primarily serves to verify whether the strategy was actually presented to the employees 2.3 CORPORATE VALUES and whether it is clear. This communication is complemented by additional The system of values that we want to promote in HT is defined by the Guiding communication channels Intranet, presentations to new employees, internal Principles of the Company. The Principles provide guidelines that we need to publications etc.. follow in our daily work, that promote ethical behaviour, mutual respect, team work, accomplishment of the best results possible as efficiently as possible, INTEGRATION OF BUSINESS SEGMENTS open expression of opinions, assumption of responsibility and the creation of an 2.7 The organisation of the Company comprises of the management of the environment that encourages, recognizes and appreciates exceptional results. Company, business units/functions of support and management/technical functions, sectors, departments, and finally, the work unit. There are two business By promoting the common standards of behaviour towards our customers and units: the Customer Facing Unit Residential and the Customer Facing Unit Busiour co-workers, we create an atmosphere that is a pleasure to work in and contriness. We have also established a Finance Support and Steering Function, a bute to the overall business success of the Company. Human Resources Support and Steering Function and a Support and Steering Function of the President of the Management Board. We are all responsible for the promotion of the values that are alive to the extent that we, Company employees, are living them. We accept the Principles not as 29 Strategy and management / Values and management T-HT Business Units Technical Functions Support and Steering Functions President of the Management Board COO Residental CTO / CTIO (CEO) COO Business CFO CHRO 2.8 These functions include operations that permeate the entire Company, ensure the Management Board consisted of six Members: Mr. Ivica Mudrinić, President compliance of all its business segments and allow the Company to operate as of the Management Board and CEO; Mr. Dino Ivan Dogan, PhD, Member of the a single unit. Board and Chief Financial Officer; Mr. Johan H.M. Busé, Member of the Management Board and Chief Operating Officer Residential; Ms. Irena Jolić Šimović, Technical functions are managed by the Chief Technical and Chief Information Member of the Board and Chief Operating Officer Business; Mr. Božidar Poldrugač, Officer. These functions include services of information and communication Member of the Management Board and Chief Technical and Chief Information technologies (ICT services) and building on the level of the Company, for the Officer and Ms. Branka Skaramuča, Member of the Management Board and purpose of providing a technical platform for services and the creation of synergy Chief Human Resources Officer. Detailed information regarding background, effects on internal and external levels. The role of the business unit is manageeducation and career of the Members of the Management Board are available ment and the responsibility for profit and loss for individual business areas. in the Annual Report of the Management Board on the state and operations of the Company and the T-HT Group for the business year 2011. 2.9 Apart from Hrvatski Telekom d.d., the members of the T-HT Group are Iskon Internet d.d., Combis d.d. and KDS d.o.o. HP d.o.o Mostar is an associate and SUPERVISORY BOARD HT d.d. Mostar is a joint venture. 2.14 The Supervisory Board is responsible for appointing and removing members of the Management Board and for the supervision of managing of the business MANAGEMENT affairs of the Company in accordance with the Companies Act, the Company’s 2.10 The Company applies a dualistic structure of Company bodies, whose Articles of Association and the By-Laws on the work of the Supervisory Board. main characteristic is a strict division of responsibilities between the two bodies In accordance with the provisions of the Articles of Association, the Supervisory of the Company, the Supervisory Board and the Management Board. The Board consists of nine Members. Eight Members are elected by the General Supervisory Board has a supervisory function, and the Management Board is Assembly and one is appointed by the Company’s employees. On 31 Decemin charge of managing the business affairs of the Company. The General Asber 2011, the Supervisory Board had five Members representing DTAG (Mr. sembly consists of the Company’s shareholders. At the General Assembly, the Andreas Moelich, Mr. Oliver Morbach, Mr. Lutz Schade, Mr. Ralph Rentschler, shareholders exercise their managerial and property rights. PhD, and Mr. Andreas Hesse), one Member nominated by the Republic of Croatia (Slavko Leban, PhD), two independent Members (Mr. Ivica Mišetić, CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CODE PhD, and Ms. Kathryn Walt Hall) and one Member appointed by the Workers’ 2.11 Given the fact that the Company’s shares have been listed on a regulated Council of HT d.d. (Mr. Juko Cikojević). market, the Company applies the Corporate Governance Code published on the website of the Zagreb Stock Exchange and on the website of the Croatian The Articles of Association of HT provide that a Member of the Supervisory Board Financial Services Supervisory Agency, in effect as of 1 January 2011. shall be a person whose knowledge, experience, and business and moral qualities guarantee that he or she will perform the function of the Member of the 2.12 The Company adheres to the provisions of the Code with the exception of Supervisory Board prudently and conscientiously and the By-Laws of the Work those provisions whose application may not be practical at a particular moment. of the SB stipulate that a Member of the Supervisory Board shall abstain from The aforementioned exceptions are specifically listed in the Corporate Governvoting in the case when a resolution relating to his individual right or legal interance Code Compliance Statement for the business year 2011. est is the subject matter of voting. MANAGEMENT BOARD 2.15 The main issues on the agenda of the meetings of the Supervisory Board 2.13 The Members of the Board and its President are appointed and removed are set forth in the Report of the Supervisory Board on the supervision performed by the Supervisory Board. Their mandate lasts for up to five years, after which during the business year 2011, which was published in the Annual Report for they may be reappointed. In accordance with the Articles of Association, the the business year 2011. Management Board consists of five to seven Members. On 31 December 2011, 30 Strategy and management / Values and management 2.16 The Supervisory Board has established the Compensation and Nomina2.21 The right to vote is a fundamental managerial right of shareholders exertion Committee and the Audit Committee, as a part of the process of transpacised at the General Assembly by voting on the proposal of the decision put to rent access to fees and appointments to the governing bodies of the Company, a vote. The right to vote is exercised by a shareholder at the General Assembly and transparency of operations. The main issues on the agenda of the meetings either in person or by proxy, according to nominal amounts of shares held, with of the Committee are set forth in the Report of the Supervisory Board on the each share representing one vote. supervision performed during the business year 2011, which was published in the Annual Report for the business year 2011. 2.22 In 2011, there were no lawsuits of shareholders for challenging decisions of the General Assembly. The Audit Committee concluded that there was no indication that the system of internal control did not function effectively during business year 2011 in terms 2.23 Among managerial rights of shareholders are some of the powers that a of financial reporting, risk management, compliance management system, qualified minority of shareholders possess. Thus, for example, shareholders internal and external audit engagement. who together hold shares in the amount of 1/20 of the Company’s share capital have the right to request the convening of the General Assembly and propose General Assembly to publish additional issue to be decided, and each shareholder has the right 2.17 As already stated, the membership rights of shareholders are divided into to make counterproposals to the proposals of the Management Board and/or managerial and proprietary rights. The basic managerial rights of shareholders Supervisory Board. are the following: the right to participate in the General Assembly of the Company including the right to debate, the right to information, the right to vote and 2.24 Proprietary right of shareholders is, for example, the right to receive payment the right to challenge the decision of the General Assembly. of the dividend. The Company’s dividend policy is defined in the Prospectus for the initial public offering from October 2007. Future dividend policy should be 2.18 The right to participate in the General Assembly of the Company including that all dividends declared and paid in respect of any year following the year the right to debate belongs to all shareholders and cannot be taken away. This after the IPO will range from 50% to 100% of distributable profits of the Company right is a prerequisite for the realization of other managerial rights exercised acquired in the previous year. Any annual dividend will depend on the overall exclusively at the General Assembly (i.e. the right to vote) or mostly at the General financial position of the Company and its needs for working capital in the releAssembly (i.e. the right to information). In accordance with the Companies Act, vant period. as the condition to participate in the General Assembly the Articles of Association of the Company provide that the shareholders must apply to participate in On 4 May 2011, the General Assembly approved the payment of the dividend the General Assembly, and that the application for participation must be delivto shareholders for the financial year 2010 in the amount of HRK 1,863,783,056.60 ered to the Company no later than six days before the General Assembly (this (HRK 22.76 per share), representing a dividend payout ratio compared to realiperiod does not include the day the application is delivered to the Company). The zed profits of 100%. The dividend was paid in the second half of May 2011. right to participate in the General Assembly can be exercised through a proxy. 2.25 Information on the General Assembly in 2011 and the decisions adopted 2.19 Invitation to the General Assembly containing the proposal of the agenda by the General Assembly can be found on the website of the Company. and proposed decisions on items of the agenda, instructions to the shareholders for the participation in the General Assembly and an explanation of certain proposals of Decisions of the General Assembly are delivered to the shareholders by the Company in electronic form. 2.20 Shareholders exercise the right to information through annual financial statements and reports on the status of the Company, the Report of the Supervisory Board and the Auditor’s Report, which are submitted to shareholders at the Company’s General Assembly. Also, during the General Assembly the Management Board gives to each shareholder, upon their request, information about the operations of the Company, if that is necessary for understanding the items of the agenda. 31 Strategy and management / Strategy of corporate social responsibility Strategy of corporate social responsibility 2.26 Corporate social responsibility is the basis of our approach to busi2.28 Success and innovation directly affect the life of the society in which ness strategy and development. In its day-to-day activities the Company we operate. By offering new, high quality and affordable solutions intenfollows the principles of the Group within which it operates and which has ded to improve communications, the Company affects the quality of life established a clear goal to become the leading place in the industrial and the competitiveness of the economy. The focus on constant improvesector regarding social and environmental responsibility. ment and innovation, with an emphasis on environmental protection, is the cornerstone of our approach to corporate social responsibility. 2.27 Principles of corporate social responsibility are a long-term commitment to the adjustment of business activities with the principles of sustainability. The approach to corporate social responsibility reflects the areas of activity which form the basis of our approach to sustainability. 2.29 AREAS OF RESPONSIBILITY STRATEGY OF HT: OPERATIONAL COMPLIANCE Connected Life and Work 2.32 Compliance with the laws and other regulations, abiding by the internal Enabling the best possible communication in personal and business life is the rules and the Code of Conduct are the basis of responsible corporate managebasis of our business operations. The goal is to develop innovative solutions in ment, i.e. the necessary prerequisite for business success and an obligatory telecommunications which will improve everyday life by first-class communicaaspect of every business process. HT actively promotes the principles of ethical tion and connection. business through a framework of compliance in order to prevent possible negative consequences and ensure compliance of business processes with the releConnect the Unconnected vant regulations. It is our goal to provide as many individuals as possible with access to telecommunication services and integration into a knowledge society. Our ambition is 2.33 Any employee, business partner, customer or shareholder may report a to ensure that advanced technologies are available to everyone, at any time. violation of the Code of Conduct as well as other irregularities, such as fraud or unlawfulness in business operations. HT guarantees full confidentiality of the Low Carbon Society process. It is also possible to submit a report anonymously. One of our key targets in the area of corporate responsibility is environmental protection, responsible exploitation of resources and the reduction of green2.34 All complaints or information about violations of the Code of Conduct or house gas emission. other regulations can be submitted to the Ethic line by: • mail: T-Hrvatski Telekom, Etička linija, Savska cesta 32, 10000 Zagreb IMPLEMENTING THE STRATEGY OF CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY • telephone: 0800 9823 (workdays from 9am to 3pm) CODE OF CONDUCT • fax: 0800 9824 2.30 HT’s Code of Conduct sets clear standards of business conduct and is • e-mail: Eticka.Linija@t.ht.hr based on the highest ethical principles. Following the changes that have taken place in the Company and its environment, in March 2011, the Management All reports are strictly confidential. It is also possible to submit an anonymous Board of Hrvatski Telekom adopted a new Code of Conduct. The new docureport by using SAD! (Croatian: Sustav Anonimnih Dojava), the anonymous ment, which builds upon the Code from 2006, is based on the Guiding Prinreports system or BKMS, the anonymous reports system of Deutsche Telekom. ciples and desirable behaviours especially on the second of five principles: These systems can be accessed via the following link: http://www.t.ht.hr/grupa/ “Respect and integrity guide our behaviour”. The major part of the document kodeks_nepravilnosti.asp deals with the relationship with customers, partners and suppliers, and special attention is paid to managing information and conflicts of interest. 2.35 By following the trends of corporate management, in 2008 HT formed the function of Compliance Officer, Compliance Department and Compliance 2.31 The new Code provides clear instructions to employees on how to behave Committee. in case of doubt or perceived breaches of principles and values. In fact, the aim of the Code is to provide all employees and other persons concerned with a clear answer to the following question: “How do we want to operate?”. 32 Strategy and management / Strategy of corporate social responsibility 2.36 In 2010, within the Compliance Management System certification process 2.39 REGULATIONS, PROCEDURES AND MEMBERSHIP OBLIGATIONS regarding the entire Deutsche Telekom Group, HT was tested by experts from • Obligations of members in the European Telecommunications Network the Ernst & Young consulting firm. The test results show that the function of Operators’ Association (ETNO) and the adopted Charter on Corporate compliance of Hrvatski Telekom fully met the set requirements. Responsibility of the European Telecommunications Network Operators’ Association 2.37 The Compliance Department allows employees to ask questions regarding • Obligations of members in the global UN initiative (within the Global the interpretation of regulations, internal policies and obtain advice on specific Compact) “Women’s Empowerment Principles.” business situations through the Intranet and “Ask me!” Portal, as well as to ano• Environmental Management Policy and Manual on Environmental nymously report irregularities through the “Tell me” portal. Management • Charter on Sustainable Development of the European Telecommunica2.38 The Department regularly conducts compliance trainings for all employees tions Network Operators’ Association (ETNO) and executives. In March 2011, a presentation was held during the program • Energy Policy of the HT Group “Knowledge on Thursdays”, when employees and management were informed • The procedure of making donations on the Anti-Corruption Policy with particular emphasis on conflict of interest and • Social Charter details of the responsibilities and duties of the Compliance Department. The • “Principles and Guidelines for Prevention of Conflicts of Interest and entire presentation is permanently available to all employees on the Intranet in Corruption in Business Operation of Hrvatski Telekom d.d.” form of a video. Also, the site of the Compliance Department provides important Anti-Corruption Policy”. information on the Intranet. • Code of Conduct 33 Strategy and management / Risk management Risk management 2.40 Hrvatski Telekom systematically monitors and reports significant accordance with the policies adopted by Deutsche Telekom, which are risks to the Company, which include regulatory and legal risks, financial common to the industry in which the Company operates. This includes risks, liquidity risks, credit risks, market risks and operational risks of the property and downtime insurance, public liability insurance and insurbusiness. A systematic approach to monitoring and reporting of risk is ance against liability from the use of the product, including employer conducted quarterly and, if necessary, on an ad hoc basis by the Manresponsibility, and insurance against criminal acts and embezzlement. agement and supervisory control bodies: the Audit Committee, internal In addition to locally contracted insurance, the Company participates and external audit. The risk management process is also an integral in the insurance coverage program for directors and management and part of the process of business planning and financial reporting of the terrorism insurance within the insurance program of its parent company, Company to shareholders. Deutsche Telekom. Hrvatski Telekom also conducts risk analyses of its business in terms of The strategic dedication to sustainability and corporate social responsibienvironmental protection and on a wider scale, in terms of risk of doing lity is one of the key elements of risk management. We hereby highlight business in the communities in which we operate. By implementing reguthe three major risks as well as our approach to managing these operating lations, such as the Code of Conduct and related documents for protecrisks. Internal assessment and consultation with our stakeholders have tion of the environment, we try to manage risks possible in the business. identified three key risk areas corruption, protection of personal data and In addition to regular measures of protection and maintenance of prothe protection of health of our customers. perty, the HT Group maintains a program of insurance for third parties in “PRINCIPLES AND GUIDELINES FOR PREVENTION OF CONFLICTS OF the body that provides assessments of individual cases and proposes correcINTEREST AND CORRUPTION IN BUSINESS OPERATION OF HRVATSKI tive measures. TELEKOM D.D.” ANTI-CORRUPTION POLICY” 2.41 At the end of 2010 the Management Board of HT adopted an Anti-Corrup2.44 Hrvatski Telekom makes a risk assessment on a yearly basis, in which tion Policy which efficiently deals with the issues of conflict of interest and corrurisks associated with active and passive corruption are assessed. Risk asseption in business. This Policy clearly defines the position of Hrvatski Telekom ssment includes responsible persons from all business areas, support and regarding all negative occurrences which might take place in the business and management function, technical support and business function, and the perprovides a clear frame for the conduct of all its employees and management. centage of business units analysed in the assessment of the risk of corruption in 2011 was 100%. 2.42 The Anti-Corruption Policy also provides all business partners with certain guarantees because it clearly defines HT as a reliable partner who bases its 2.45 Based on the results of the assessment, the Compliance Department devebusiness on strong ethical principles. HT has already had policies regulating lops an annual program and takes appropriate action presented to the Complithe issues of accepting and distributing of gifts within business relations, which ance Committee, Management, and Audit of the Supervisory Board. The are in compliance with the relevant legal frame and are connected to the AntiCompliance Officer is responsible for implementing the compliance program. Corruption Policy, providing practical provisions on allowed and disallowed business conduct. 2.46 Hrvatski Telekom makes no political contributions, including donations to politicians, political parties or political organizations. Also, the Company 2.43 By implementation of the Anti-Corruption Policy, HT takes a clear stand does not support political parties, and does not in any way interfere in political regarding negative phenomena in conducting business, thus providing its workers, activity and political attitudes and commitment of its employees and execumanagers, investors and business partners additional guarantees in terms of tives. HT requires its employees to separate their political activities, attitudes ethical and harmonised operations. The Anti-Corruption Policy introduces clear and orientations from HT and professional duties they perform in HT. This is criteria and responsibilities for the assessment of regularity in the business and covered by HT’s Anti-Corruption Policy and the Group’s Donation Policy. In defines a clear procedure in all cases of conflict of interest through the role of 2011 there were no confirmed cases of corruption. Despite this, the Complithe Compliance Department as the operating unit responsible for interpreting ance Department continually works on measures of prevention, education and all provisions of the Anti-Corruption Policy and the Compliance Committee as the promotion of corporate social responsibility. 34 Strategy and management / Risk management 2.47 Hrvatski Telekom complies with legal requirements, and provides its emplo2.54 The Officer is authorized to represent HT before the Agency for the Protecyees and executives with transparent rules of procedure in the “Anti-Corruption tion of Personal Data as well as to co-operate with this supervisory authority, for Policy of HT d.d.” as an additional measure of prevention of corruption. example, during an inspection. In all cases where a customer’s request cannot be considered without prior security, IT or technical examination of the merits of 2.48 Special emphasis in educating employees and executives during 2011 allegations of violation of law, the competent service for corporate security and was placed on the Code of Conduct featuring a chapter on corruption. The plan competent service for IT/NT security are included in the process. for educating more employees and executives in terms of anti-corruption policy is provided in the Education Plan 2012 due to the updated version of the Policy. CARE FOR THE ENVIRONMENT AND CUSTOMERS’ HEALTH 2.55 With the development of mobile communications and the growing number 2.49 In early 2011, all employees and executives were informed about the Antiof customers, the need for base stations and mobile antennas without which Corruption Policy through HT’s official gazette, e-mail and the presentation as a communication is not possible also increases. The number of mobile custompart of the program “Knowledge on Thursdays.” Also, the Compliance Departers and base stations obliges Hrvatski Telekom to focus on optimizing the use ment provided a presentation that all superiors distributed to their employees. of mobile communications and reduce potential risks to a minimum. One of the All of this contributed to a more efficient business environment in the procureways we implement this practice is the use of an Environmental Management ment process during 2011. We also implemented a new Code of Conduct and System according to ISO 14001:2004. The application of this international held presentations for employees of HT and Iskon on conflict of interest, corrustandard enables HT to shape the Environmental Management Policy and ption, and the Code of Conduct. The Anti-Corruption Policy is available on the objectives, taking into account legal requirements and information about Intranet to all employees and supervisors, as well as the “Ask Me” Portal, which significant environmental impacts. can be turned to in case of doubt and the “Tell me.” Portal in the case of report. 2.56 When it comes to electromagnetic emissions, HT fully complies with the PROTECTION OF PERSONAL DATA current Croatian legislation. In Croatia the Ordinance on Protection Against 2.50 HT gives special care to the protection of personal data and the privacy Electromagnetic Fields (OG 98/2011) issued by the Ministry of Health applies, of its users. In addition to positive regulations of the Republic of Croatia, HT and all telecommunications equipment is subject to the provisions of the Ordialso applies specific documents establishing additional, strict standards of nance on the Limitation of the Strength of Electromagnetic Fields for Radio protection of personal data on the level of the entire DT Group. The fundamenEquipment and Telecommunications Terminal Equipment (OG 183/2004, tal document in this regard is the so-called Code of Conduct for the protection 89/2011). The international standard for limiting exposure to time-varying eleof individual privacy in processing personal data within the Deutsche Telekom ctric, magnetic and electromagnetic fields (up to 300 GHz) has been issued by Group, which applies to all employees of HT. the International Commission on Non-Ionizing Radiation Protection (ICNIRP). These safety limits have been adopted by the World Health Organization and 2.51 In order to implement an effective system for the protection of personal the UN on a global level, and HT also adopts them. However, compared to data HT has established a separate organizational unit directly responsible to these standards, the Croatian regulations are up to 6.25 times stricter. The the President of the Management Board of HT and headed by the Data Privacy border levels for the power flux density in the areas of occupational exposure in Officer. The Officer supervises whether the rights of individuals are respected the Republic of Croatia are 5 times stricter, and in areas of increased sensitivity in terms of protection of their personal data, but also the associated rights of 6.25 times stricter than those in the European Union. legal persons. 2.57 In creating innovative solutions for products and services HT always keeps 2.52 In order to achieve maximum transparency to users of services in connecin mind the need to save energy and natural resources, while not reducing the tion with the processing of their personal data and to protect their right to priawareness of the needs of users and the community. For example, new technovacy, HT has defined the protection of personal data and privacy in its General logy of services “in the cloud” reduces the need for devices and saves energy, Terms and Conditions. In these Terms and Conditions, service users are also while the e-bill eliminates the use of paper. instructed to contact HT for issues concerning the protection of personal data. 2.58 For many years, even before it became a legal requirement in Croatia, HT 2.53 In its everyday activities, the Data Privacy Officer ensures that every relevant has encouraged mobile services users to return used mobile phones, their batteinquiry, request and/or complaint of respondents and supervisory authorities ries and equipment to HT stores. Such actions have been organized since 2005 in connection with the practice of HT is dealt with in a timely manner. Other than with an excellent response from the users which is proven by over 111 000 submitting them directly to the Officer, customers may submit requests concerdisposed used mobile phones. All disposed devices, equipment and batteries ning the protection of personal data primarily via the HT Customer Service, in are submitted to authorized concessionaires for further treatment and recycling, accordance with the General Terms and Conditions. Typical customer requirethus contributing significantly to human health and environmental safety. ments are submitted in accordance with the General Terms and Conditions, relating to consent over the use of personal data for the purpose of delivery of marketing information. 35 Strategy and management / Stakeholders Stakeholders 2.59 Dialogue with stakeholders is one of the key aspects of the Company’s Firstly, this approach makes it possible to recognize risks from the outset and strategy aimed at corporate social responsibility. Stakeholders are the various coordinate actions and measures accordingly. Secondly, the exchange with interest groups with whom the Company has established contacts or who are stakeholders is used to identify emerging trends in society, so that these discodirectly or indirectly affected by the Company. Different groups are sometimes veries could be used in the further development of the Company’s approach to more or less active in the interaction with the Company, but that does not mean corporate social responsibility. that the approach is selective indeed, the Company approaches everyone in a transparent manner and wishes to achieve the best possible communication. 2.60 At the same time, the exchange of experiences helps to present the activities With certain groups of stakeholders, such as suppliers and customers, we contiof the Company to stakeholders and to further build or establish good, two-way nuously exchange information. For example, every two years, independent research relationships. Communicating and learning from stakeholders is an ongoing of the Company’s reputation is conducted. With other stakeholders, such as local process. Therefore, we will briefly present how we establish communication communities, NGOs or the government, information is exchanged as needed by with key stakeholders, with respect to the key issues and the way in which we both sides, which in practice means very often, due to the specific nature of the try to answer the questions of our stakeholders. business. Sharing knowledge and experience is an advantage for the Company. WHO WHAT HOW CUSTOMERS • Customer desire and satisfaction the goal is to offer a superior Research; websites; social networks; direct contact; grievance procetailor-made service, be their first choice, and reduce customer dures, information on products; sales strategy dissatisfaction to a minimum EMPLOYEES • Competitive and desirable employer Employee satisfaction surveys; system for solving dilemmas in the • Rewarding work, talent and initiative workplace, training programs, reward programs, internal newsletter, • Investment in education and training of employees, creating experts Intranet. SUPPLIERS • Supply chain management (including compliance with the stanResearch; clear criteria of business; feedback system, supplier rating dards of health, safety, environment protection and quality) • Promoting best practices and commitment to sustainability SHAREHOLDERS • Professional exchange of information and views Regular annual meeting of shareholders; special session if needed; • Quick solution for common problems meetings and written information BUSINESS-INTEREST • Cooperation on the exchange of information Membership in professional and interest, national and international ORGANIZATIONS • Developing good practices in business associations, lobbying • Mutual and public exchange of opinions COMMUNITY • Specific and general problems of society in which we operate Direct cooperation; interactive websites; sponsorships, grants and • Problems specific to a particular area that affect health protection partnership programs; specific research and evaluation of health, safety and environmental aspects of local communities safety and environmental risks. • Exchange of information and dialogue • Confidence and a positive image of the Company • Partnerships for sustainable development STATE ADMINISTRATION • Exchange of views and cooperation with politically elected repreDirect cooperation, exchange of opinions and gathering information AND REGULATORY sentatives, public administration, agencies and bodies responsible about good practices STRUCTURES for monitoring the market in which we operate • Advising on laws and procedures • Removal of unsustainable practices and increase of competitiveness • Ensuring legal compliance and avoiding incompatibility NON-GOVERNMENTAL • Exchange of information and opinion Two-way communication; donations and sponsorships, partnerships ORGANIZATIONS • Shared commitment to creating a positive environment • Monitoring and reporting on sustainability 36 Strategy and management / Stakeholders 37 Strategy and management / Relationship with the government and regulatory requirements Relationship with the government and regulatory requirements 2.61 Hrvatski Telekom d.d. (HT) as a company operating in the electronic comand competitiveness of the Croatian economy, its realization is the subject of munications sector, must comply with numerous regulations, from corporate intense dialogue of the political sector, regulatory bodies and operators. As law, commercial law, employment law, regulations on construction, competition examples of such dialogue, we can point out the existence of a special fee of law and user protection law to regulations that apply only to companies that 6% on services in mobile electronic communication networks, during the year operate within the electronic communications sector. 2011, which undoubtedly impacted the gross revenue and consequently the investment potential of the operator, the payer of the fee and consequently to its 2.62 In this regard, HT has been named an operator with significant market subcontractors and the regulatory decisions of HAKOM that did not encourage power in the relevant markets such as the market of origination of calls from investment, especially in terms of the construction of the fibre optic network public communications networks provided at a fixed location, the market of infrastructure of HT. termination of calls in its own public communications network provided at a fixed location and the market for wholesale (physical) access to network infra2.65 In addition to working independently with the aim of facilitating the realizastructure (including shared or fully unbundled access) at a fixed location on the tion of the above mentioned goals through media appearances and attending basis of procedures for the determination of the relevant market and assessround tables and conferences, HT, as an operator of electronic communicatiment of the existence of operators with significant market power by the national ons services, operates at the national level through membership in the Mobile regulatory body, Croatian Post and Electronic Communications Agency (HAKOM) Communication Association of Croatia (UPKH) and the Telecommunications and in accordance with the Electronic Communications Act (ECA). Association at the Croatian Chamber of Economy, which publicly represent the common interests of their members. HT is also a member of international asso2.63 Also, HAKOM has designated HT as the operator of universal services in ciations of electronic communications network operators, European Telecomthe Croatian territory with certain obligations. Among other things, HT therefore munications Network Operators’ Association and the GSM Association, which offers special pricing systems tailored to the needs of disadvantaged groups of serve to promote the interests of operators of the electronic communications end-users such as discounts for special categories of subscribers. sector at EU level. 2.64 Consequently, the obligations of HT are regulated by the ECA, bylaws and 2.66 In 2011, there were no final judgements with a significant2 fine for nondecisions of HAKOM that significantly affect the provision of electronic commucompliance with laws and regulations. nications services of HT and HT’s future investments in new modern electronic communications infrastructure that supports high-speed transmission data and 2.67 More on regulation of HT under results for the year ending on 31 December high speed internet access and the provision of new advanced services to end 2011 of T-Hrvatski Telekom at customers. Given that the existence of the electronic communications infrahttp://www.t.ht.hr/investitori/pdf/q4_2011rezultati.pdf (pp. 6-9) structure is a prerequisite for the development of Croatian society of knowledge 2) Significant fine represents amounts over HRK 500.000. 38 Strategy and management / Added value Added value 2.68 Revised income and loss statement for HT d.d. 2011 2010 HRK million HRK million Revenue from providing services 7.391 7.922 Revenue from sales of merchandise 85 86 Revenue from basic activity 7.476 8.008 Other revenue 283 233 Costs of goods sold, material and energy (710) (873) Costs of services (1.075) (1.236) Costs of personnel (1.184) (1.113) Capitalized costs of self-produced work 76 103 Depreciation and impairment of fixed assets (1.355) (1.366) Other costs (1.303) (1.488) Total operating costs (5.551) (5.973) Profit from operations 2.208 2.268 Income from interest 80 79 Financial expenses (37) (48) Net financial income 43 31 Income from investment in joint venture 6 Profit before income tax 2.251 2.305 Income tax (438) (441) Profit for the year 1.813 1.864 Other comprehensive profit for the year Change in value of financial assets available for sale (2) 2 Actuarial gains and other income (expense) 17 (3) Other comprehensive profit for the year, net of tax 15 (1) Total other comprehensive profit for the year, net of tax 1.828 1.863 2.69 During 2011, the General Assembly approved the payment of the dividend Information on the General Assembly in 2011 and the decisions adopted by to shareholders for the financial year 2010 in the amount of HRK 1,863,783,056.60 the General Assembly can be found at the following address: (HRK 22.76 per share), representing a dividend payout ratio compared to realihttp://www.t.ht.hr/investitori/skupstina11.asp zed profits of 100%. The dividend was paid in the second half of May 2011. 39 Strategy and management / Added value EFFECT OF TAX ON THE SERVICES OF MOBILE OPERATORS this period, no financial assistance in any form was received from the state. 2.70 Extraordinary tax on mobile services was introduced on 1 August 2009 to However, the law has enabled reduction in corporate income tax for employers all mobile operators in Croatia. based on expenses of employee training; for general education (the cost of Tax determined a rate of 6% on the revenues of mobile operators, including university and post-graduate education, language courses) tax relief amounts SMS, MMS and voice services. The effect of tax was HRK 163 million in 2010 to 55% of the costs, and for special education (professional seminars and other and HRK 149 million in 2011. training programs directly related to the job that the employee performs) the tax relief is 30% of the costs. In 2011, the total benefit amounted to HRK 4 million, 2.71 Payments to state institutions: taxes, surtaxes and other charges and in 2010 to HRK 4.1 million. In 2011, the state collected HRK 1.7 billion, of which most on VAT (58%). During 2011 2010 VAT 1,019,031,667.88 1,079,371,152.33 Income tax 388,532,162.36 442,683,058.52 Salary-related tax and surtax 139,845,848.19 129,404,113.68 Other taxes 9,072,167.66 6,930,535.69 Total tax payments 1,556,481,846.09 1,658,388,860.22 Other charges (monument annuity, forests, CCE, TB) 32,147,038.52 18,831,806.74 Mobile fee 6% 148,840,986.26 163,346,189.71 Total 1,737,469,870.87 1,840,566,856.67 40 Artist: Helena Janečić Art piece: City ladies: At Miss Hermanns` T-HTnagrada@msu.hr competition, 2011 Impact in the community Impact in the community / Impact in the community Impact in the community 3.1 The community in which we operate is an important factor of our success. Since the Company’s daily activities have an impact on a large number of people, we pay special attention to our relations with the community. One of the objectives of the activity we undertake is to provide access to information to as many people as possible, by which we, directly or indirectly, affect the creation of a knowledge society within the scope of our business. RESPONSIBILITY TOWARDS THE SOCIETY 3.3 Most projects are long-term, which ensures their effectiveness, and equally 3.2 The HT Group regularly cooperates with educational, cultural, training and the Company’s employees are personally involved in various projects. In this scientific institutions, non-governmental organizations, especially those taking way the Company and its employees are directly involved in the projects that care of people with special needs, persons who are in an unfavourable position influence the development of the society. and organizations promoting civil society values. 42 Impact in the community / Expansion of network and infrastructure Active role of the employees Expansion of network and infrastructure 3.4 Exchange of digital information is one of major trends of the modern Internet television services are extremely well accepted in Croatia, so this serinformation society. Business and personal needs increasingly include vice is extended via satellite, thus allowing access to modern technologies access to information. HT is fully dedicated to this purpose, which resulted and services in areas that had not previously had access to Internet services. in 43% of households with access to broadband Internet at the end of 2010. In addition, 99.4% of the population has access to the EDGE technology, while the share of HSDPA access is 59.3% with a minimum data transfer rate of 1.8 Mbit/s. Active role of the employees 3.5 We actively support social and environmental activities of the Company, MOST DESIRABLE EMPLOYER especially with the help of our employees. The support is seen through volunteer 3.7 For many years, including 2011, the HT Group was named one of the most programs in the community and investing in organizations and institutions that desirable employers in Croatia. This is once again confirmed by the results of share our principles of sustainability. the traditional survey conducted by the Moj Posao Portal. The HT Group is a convincing leader among employers in the highly competitive telecommunica3.6 Employee involvement can be divided into three general categories: tions and IT sector. One of the most attractive features of our Company is sector • Involvement of employees leadership. Also, commitment to corporate social responsibility of HT has been • Participation and integration recognized by the respondents of the survey who assessed its social responsi• Corporate volunteering bility as even better than last year. 43 Impact in the community / Mobile communications and health Mobile communications and health 3.8 In terms of electromagnetic emission, HT fully complies with the current Croatian legislation. In Croatia, the Ordinance on Protection Against Electromagnetic Fields (OG 98/2011) issued by the Ministry of Health applies, and all telecommunications equipment is subject to the provisions of the Ordinance on the Limitation of the Strength of Electromagnetic Fields for Radio Equipment and Telecommunications Terminal Equipment (OG. 183/2004, 89/2011). The international standard for limiting exposure to time-varying electric, magnetic and electromagnetic fields (up to 300 GHz) has been issued by the International Commission on Non-Ionizing Radiation Protection (ICNIRP). These safety limits have been adopted by the World Health Organization and the UN on a global level, and HT also applies them. MORE ON CROATIAN REGULATIONS ON ELECTROMAGNETIC EMISSION TEN GUIDELINES ON ELECTROMAGNETIC FIELDS 3.9 However, compared to these standards, the Croatian regulations are up to 3.11 Hrvatski Telekom acknowledges the public’s true concern over the impacts 6.25 times stricter. The border levels for the power flux density in the areas of of mobile communications technology, both of mobile handsets and of base staoccupational exposure in the Republic of Croatia are 5 times stricter, and in areas tions. Taking into account the large number of base stations and millions of custoof increased sensitivity 6.25 times stricter than those in the European Union. mers, HT is determined to take the public’s concern seriously and deal with the needs of the public and environmental needs in an open, constructive and 3.10 Being a responsible telecommunications company, Hrvatski Telekom supports sincere manner. and encourages extensive and detailed scientific research and follows the research activities on the impact of electromagnetic radiation conducted by many organiza3.12 HT plays an active role in the public dialogue on electromagnetic fields, tions, independent groups, expert teams and scientists. All the research that has supports independent scientific studies in health research, participates in counbeen conducted so far and the latest scientific findings show that the electromagselling, communication and providing information to the public and other impornetic fields in the mobile communication systems have no harmful effect on human tant subjects on all social levels. health, with the confirmation of the World Health Organization. In 2011, independent measurements were conducted on some 100 basic stations of HT’s mobile 3.13 Although regulatory and social principles differ throughout Europe, all networks and the results were delivered to the Ministry of Health. All sources of members of the DT Group are committed to transparency, counselling and acthe EM fields in HT’s networks have a resolution for their use which is issued by tive participation. HT has accepted and complies with the guidelines provided the Ministry of Health. in the DT Group’s Guidelines on EM fields. 44 Impact in the community / Mobile communications and health 3.14 Transparency 3.16 Cooperation • Hrvatski Telekom has set up internal responsibilities and procedures with • Hrvatski Telekom cooperates with local authorities in dealing with citizens’ regard to complaints and inquiries on impacts of technology, health and inquiries regarding the development of the network and selecting a locaother related issues. tion for base stations. In order to help local authorities, Hrvatski Telekom • Hrvatski Telekom is aware of the general public’s interest in mobile comprovides all relevant information on our networks. munications. For full transparency, Hrvatski Telekom supports the idea of • It also seeks to establish cooperation with local authorities. Our goal is the creation of national databases on base stations which would contain to reach a mutual opinion on the location of base station with the local all other EMR sources as well. authorities whenever possible. • All base stations of Hrvatski Telekom comply with the national guidelines • Hrvatski Telekom aims at minimizing the visual impact of base stations on exposure to non-ionizing emission, as well as with the Guidelines of and the impact of the entire network on the landscape. the ICNIRP (International Commission on Non-Ionizing Radiation Protection). In order to improve transparency, Hrvatski Telekom owns a Compli3.17 Promoting scientific discoveries ance Certificate for each base station. • Hrvatski Telekom fully supports the advancement of scientific knowledge on the effects of electromagnetic fields on health and contributes to inde3.15 Providing information pendent development programs. • In addressing the public, Hrvatski Telekom follows a proactive communi• Hrvatski Telekom believes that the exposure limit values of EM fields should cations strategy and strives to cooperate with all interested parties. Moreover, be determined on the basis of scientifically based recognized research and HT encourages authorities on all levels to cooperate with the mobile industry that they should be under constant supervision. Furthermore, Hrvatski Teleand to set up their own programs of providing information to the public. kom evaluates and monitors the latest scientific discoveries. • On its web pages and all sales locations, HT provides its users with manufacturers’ information on the SAR values of the handsets offered. 45 Impact in the community / Investment in the community Investment in the community 3.18 T-HT Group has set high standards of corporate responsibility in all segThe six largest investments in the community: ments of business; it pays equal attention to its relationship with its stakeholders employees, customers, suppliers and investors as well as the wider HOO (Croatian Olympic Committee) 1,212,000.00 community in which it operates. In this sense, the constant and optimally Zajedno smo jači (Together we are stronger) 775,000.00 positive interaction with the community at all levels, including local, occupies Unicef 748,957.78 a significant part of the framework of the corporate social responsibility strategy of Hrvatski Telekom. Museum of Contemporary Art 500,000.00 Theatres 500,000.00 3.19 Hrvatski Telekom demonstrates the responsibility of a strong and successful Eco-project: reforestation of fire affected areas 395,478.89 company to the society in which it operates by engaging in many activities. The Total investment in the community in 2011 HRK 6,880,239.31 common denominator of HT’s donation activities is orientation towards the projects which comprise modern technology, focus on education and charitable activities. Specifically, as an example of its activities as a leader, HT participates in digitization projects in the society or provides Company resources for socially Duration of donation projects and investments in partner projects useful purposes. Moreover, other than donation activities, the presence of HT in the community is witnessed by a number of projects that have elements of Croatian Olympic Committee sponsorship. Both models represent an investment in the community. Theaters 3.20 The share of investment in the community by thematic areas: UNICEF Together we are stronger Culture and science 38% Museum of Contemporary Art Children and youngsters 24% Eco project Sports 18% Charity 15% year Ecology 5% It should be noted that the majority of HT’s investment projects in the community last for several years, which contributes to their effectiveness, which in turn leads to a deeper connection and relationship between the Company and the beneficiaries. It should also be noted that many of the projects have both an external and a significant internal character, which means that employees of HT are directly involved in helping the community. 46 Impact in the community / Investment in the community 3.21 CULTURE AND SCIENCE Within the Korak u život (Step into Life) action of the Rotary Club Zagreb Kaptol, Museum of Contemporary Art HT provides scholarships to five students without parental care, who had to Hrvatski Telekom has been the primary partner of the Museum of Contempoleave children’s homes and foster families due to their age and are full-time rary Art (Muzej suvremene umjetnosti MSU) since 2007. The partnership that students at various faculties. also continued in 2011, achieved the goal of promoting modern technology in culture and, as in previous years, the annual award for the best Croatian e-Etiquette on social networks contemporary art work was also presented. Other than providing financial supHT was the first company in Croatia to develop and publish a handbook for port and awards, HT supports the Museum of Contemporary Art by providing behaviour on social networks, the so-called e-Etiquette. The handbook defines telecommunication services. formal and non-formal rules of conduct for Facebook, Twitter and other social networks. Motivated by the awareness of the rapid development of social netIn 2011 the “T-HTnagrada@msu.hr” competition was held for the fourth time. working in Croatia, and in the light of non-existence of formal rules that would During this period the award of the same name has become synonymous with be summarized in one place, HT decided to develop an e-Etiquette in order to the most prestigious annual awards in the field of contemporary art within Croacontribute to better communication and understanding by users of social networks. tia. The number of works submitted in 2011 surpassed that of the previous year and an international jury traditionally decided on the best works. The works The catch is that the authors of the manual are everyday users of social networks, rewarded in 2011 were purchased and included in the HT collection within the such as Facebook or Twitter, themselves, bloggers and members of forums. Museum of Contemporary Art. Thus demonstrating the liberality and two-way communication inherent to social networks, HT invited their users, applying the method of crowdsourcing, Theatre events to submit proposals to be included in the manual, which were then reviewed by In 2011, Hrvatski Telekom continued its long-lasting tradition of sponsoring an expert committee, which selected the best submissions. Croatian national theatres in Osijek, Split, Rijeka and Varaždin and the Gavella City Drama Theatre in Zagreb. The events of Špancirfest and Varaždin Baroque The publication of the e-Etiquette coincided with three key anniversaries for Evenings were also supported through sponsorship of the City of Varaždin. Hrvatski Telekom of experience in communications 130 years of providing fixed telephony services, 20 years of mobile telephony services and 5 years of Supporting expert conferences internet television. The commitment of Hrvatski Telekom to the development of a knowledge society is reflected, among other things, in the support it provides to numerous scien“Znanjem rastemo” tific and professional gatherings: WINDAYS 2011, MIPRO Conference, Combis In September 2011, in Zagreb, Hrvatski Telekom organized the fourth consecuConference, Cisco Conference, Imagine Cup 2011 Project, Telekom Arena and tive “Znanjem rastemo” (Growing through Knowledge) Conference. By presentICT Arena, ICT Conference and other events related to the telecommunications ing the world’s leading speakers, the Company wanted to give knowledge to the sector and its communities. Moreover, also in the field of science, HT provided academic and business community, its employees, customers and the media financial support for the Mediterranean Institute for Life Sciences for the sixth and society. Guest speakers in 2011 were Nassim Nicholas Taleb, PhD who year in succession. studies the problems of luck, risk, chance, human error, probability, and the philosophy of knowledge, and Amber Case a cyber anthropologist focused on Besides the financial support, the Company has helped a number of local and studying how people and technology interact and evolve. international forums and conferences by providing them with its infrastructure, technical support and equipment. The roman@tportal.hr prize tportal.hr announced the competition for the literary prize roman@tportal.hr in Cooperation with the academic community the amount of HRK 100,000 for the fourth year in succession. There were 50 The long-standing cooperation of Hrvatski Telekom with the Faculty of Electrical entries and the first prize went to Olga Savičević Ivančević for her novel “Adio Engineering and Computing (FER) started in November 2006 by signing the kauboju”. This award, like the award for contemporary art, has already gained Frame Contract on Cooperation in Scientific-Research and Development Activan important place in public consciousness. ity with a view to promoting transfer of knowledge and ideas between science and economy. The Company has also established cooperation with the Faculty Film festivals of Law in Zagreb. In 2011, HT sponsored a number of projects: the Pula Film Festival, Vukovar Film Festival, Zagrebdox, Zagreb Film Festival, Filmomanija and Forum film Scholarships Zadar. The support of film festivals carries a link to HT as the first Internet teleBy extending what was once a T-Mobile project, in 2011 Hrvatski Telekom vision provider in this region. Films that were shown at festivals immediately organized a second-ever competition for the HT scholarship. Among excellent became available within the MAXtv video store. candidates from the Faculty of Electrical Engineering and Computing, six senior students who, in addition to achieving excellent university results, hold a wide range of interests and are actively involved in different activities, were awarded scholarships. 47 Impact in the community / Investment in the community T-Mobile INmusic Festival 3.24 CHARITY WORK For the third consecutive year, T-Mobile has supported the INmusic Festival, Zajedno smo jači (Together we are stronger) the largest Croatian open-air festival that showcased over forty foreign and local The donation project “Zajedno smo jači” (Together we are stronger) in which performers on as many as six stages. Some of the performers have included every year the employees of Hrvatski Telekom have a key role in suggesting, seJamiroquai, Arcade Fire, Cypress Hill, Grindermen and many others. The Englecting and making the final choice of the charity events to which the Company lish daily newspaper The Times, ranked the T-Mobile INmusic festival among will award funds was conducted in 2011 for the sixth year in a row. 24 projects the 20 best European festivals. had been chosen among 294 applications received from all over Croatia and were awarded funds amounting to HRK 775,000. The financial resources were Electronic Beats Festival given to a number of associations and institutions including medical institutions In 2011, we also sponsored the first Electronic Beats Zagreb Festival, which atand institutions working with disabled persons, the elderly and children. tracted 1500 visitors who enjoyed performances by some of the best electronic performers in the world: Roisin Murphy, Digitalism, Totally Enormous Extinct 060 numbers charity action support Dinosaurs and When Saints Go Machine. Since 2001, Hrvatski Telekom has been supporting a number of initiatives by allocating 060 numbers as numbers for charity campaigns that the general 3.22 CHILDREN AND YOUNG PEOPLE public can call and help finance a charity project. In addition, in 2011 HT used UNICEF a 060 number to help the Ana Rukavina Foundation, the Naša djeca (Our Children) For seven consecutive years, Hrvatski Telekom has been the main partner of Society of Vinkovci, the Nada Vrbovec Association, the Autonomous Women’s UNICEF in Croatia. In 2001, HT’s donation helped the development of a new House Zagreb and the Dva skalina Association achieve their goals. After provinational model of early intervention in childhood, which brings experts into the ding a 060 number HT always renounces its entire profit, allowing charity actifamily, thus helping children with neurodevelopmental risks and disabilities vities carried out via 060 numbers in 2011 to collect a total of HRK 3.6 million. to change the outcomes of their diagnosis, and their chances in later life. In addition to financial aid, by sending money orders for donations to its custom3.25 ECOLOGY ers, HT enabled them to make a contribution to this valuable UNICEF project Reforestation of fire affected areas themselves. In 2001, the partnership included the Children’s Rights Festival, For the fourth year in succession in 2011, HT used the Reforestation of Fire which for the first time ever made the rich festival program including Croatian Affected Areas Project to directly invest funds into a unique and comprehensive and international films accessible to children and adults with sight or hearing environmental project, thus confirming its ongoing responsibility towards the impairments. community. This investment is a continuation of the 2010 project of the same name, within which saplings of the Aleppo pine, stone pine and cypress were 3.23 SPORTS planted in 27 hectares of forest. Reforestation is carried out at five locations that HOO Croatian Olympic Committee were ravaged by summer forest fires over the last five years: Biograd, Imotski, In 2011, Hrvatski Telekom continued its long-standing collaboration with the Metković, Split and Korčula. Croatian Olympic Committee as its main sponsor, thus linking HT’s values with the best tradition of the Olympic Games: fair competition and constant hard As a part of this donation project, in December HT’s employees participated in work leading towards excellence. the reforestation of Turopoljski lug by planting saplings of the English Oak. Sportske igre mladih (Youth Sport Games) As a traditional sponsor of the Youth Sport Games, Hrvatski Telekom supports the largest amateur sports event in the country, which in 2011 featured a total of ten sports and more than 80,000 participants aged between 7 and 18. This event promotes messages against drugs, alcohol and violence and encourages a healthy lifestyle. 48 Impact in the community / Investment in the community 49 Artist: Božica Dea Matasić Art piece: Panacea T-HTnagrada@msu.hr competition, 2011 Care for customers Care for customers / Care for customers Care for customers RESPONSIBLE RELATIONSHIP WITH CUSTOMERS Brand Personality 4.1 All equipment, systems and services that we use are fully compliant with the 4.5 Brand personality comprises several brand attributes that stipulate our rules and regulations of the Croatian and European legislation, because we put conduct. Our marketing activities and all the other activities at points of contact the health and safety of our customers as a priority. All products and services with our customers are based on these attributes: we are social, authentic, acinclude detailed instructions and information, and are further clarified to cuscessible, inspiring and reliable. tomers by the information on the Company’s website, as well as through direct contact with the centre for direct communication with customers. All services 4.6 Through its communications activities, the Company supports the brand’s are available to customers 24 hours a day, every day of the year. profile based on brand vision, promise, and values. Our brand promise states advantages we provide our customers with, when they use our services, making 4.2 HT adopts a responsible approach to adapting its services to various needs their lives richer in experience and emotions. The focus is on unforgettable of its customers, as evidenced by special discounts, access to stores for persons moments that can be shared with others Life is for sharing. Furthermore, the with disabilities, packages for users with low incomes, customized services for three qualities we always need to fulfil are our brand values. Everything we do the young, discounts for veterans and invalids of the Homeland war, parental we measure against this standard and together they are the basis of our brand control on MAXtv, protection for users of the Internet and a variety of billing promise. Values of our brand are: simplicity, competence, and innovation. options such as web-bill, voice bill and e-bill. 4.3 HT strictly abides by the Code of Advertising Standards which prescribes advertising rules and principles. In 2011 there were no final judgements with a significant3 fine. 4.4 In 2011, there was a total of five proceedings before the State Inspectorate, all related to the same campaign (Christmas campaign from 2010/2011) for which Hrvatski Telekom d.d. received a warning to highlight important information relating to offers of 50% discount on the monthly fee, and mobile devices and accessories when broadcasting the commercials. Hrvatski Telekom d.d. modified its actions within the period according to the above warning. In reference to the above Christmas campaign, the State Inspectorate initiated misdemeanour proceedings against HT and the responsible person which are still in progress. The penalties provided for a legal person amount to HRK 10,000 to HRK 100,000, and for the responsible person from HRK 10,000 to HRK 15,000. 3) Significant fine means amounts over HRK 500 000. 51 Care for customers / Basics of product design and development Basics of product design and development ADVANCED TECHNOLOGIES MADE AVAILABLE TO EVERYONE 4.7 As a leader and innovator in the Croatian telecommunications market, HT is continually investing in the development of innovative technologies, broadband, IPTV and LTE. HT is also the first operator in Croatia whose customers had the opportunity last year to test the most advanced LTE network with up to ten times higher data rates. tCloud MaxTV To Go We have also presented innovative services in the cloud. The tCloud Computer The Internet television package has been expanded by a new service, MAXtv service allows business customers to use virtual IT infrastructure without the cost To Go, which allows users to watch MAXtv via mobile devices and computers, of purchasing IT equipment, thereby contributing to energy savings and envion additional screens at home, and allows them to have a new viewing experironmental protection. Thanks to the Spremalica and Data Synchronization ence on the go. services residential customers have the possibility of simple and secure storage and sharing of various contents requiring nothing more than a device with HotHot Internet access. The first local geo-location application in the Croatian language, HotHot, provides owners of smartphones with a new possibility of a simple and practical overview Planet9 of attractive offers in the vicinity. For all the book lovers in Croatia, HT has introduced an online bookstore, Planet9 and the corresponding e-reader, allowing them to access and read their favourite books at any time and any place. 52 Care for customers / Products and services minimum impact on the environment Products and services minimum impact on the environment 4.8 HT constantly tries to find new solutions for our products and services which a dangerous situation. Therefore, mobile communications benefit the entire save energy and natural resources. In 2011, we continued with the implementacommunity, regardless of whether they are used for business, social or emertion of activities by which HT seeks to contribute to reducing the use of materials gency purposes. The fact that in Croatia an overwhelming 200,000 calls are by its customers, with a focus on customer needs and advancement of e-business. placed to emergency services via mobile networks a month is not negligible! Following the new trend of development of technology in the field of service development, in 2011 HT introduced a number of services “in the cloud” based 4.11 GSM base stations have been developed, tested and put into operation on the principle of the so-called cloud computing. Through this service, HT in accordance with international standards and requirements. Hrvatski Telekom reduces the customers’ need for devices and equipment, thus contributing to receives the certificates proving that the base stations comply with the security the protection of the environment. Furthermore, e-bill helps protect the environrequirements of ICNIRP and with a series of standards for product safety, ment thanks to reduced use of paper. The number of HT customers who actielectromagnetic compatibility and general technical regulations from the vated this in the last year has doubled. equipment manufacturer. Also, all base stations are certified as conforming to a range of European and international standards (EN 60950, EN 60215, EN 4.9 In 2011, HT continued to offer numerous existing services, solutions and 50358, EN 301 489-1 V1.4.1, EN 301 489-08 V1.1.1 i V1.2.1, EN 301 502) products allowing customers to reduce their environmental impact, such as issued by the Croatian Post and Electronic Communications Agency. Also, all audio and video conferencing (saving energy, reducing greenhouse gas emisources of the EM fields in the T-Mobile network have a resolution for their use ssions), network answering machine (saving energy and resources), video on which is issued by the Ministry of Health. demand services home video and recording device (saving energy and resources), office fax service for sending and receiving fax messages via e-mail 4.12 All mobile devices marketed by HT meet the safety requirements on the (saving resources and energy), use of electronic vouchers, online and telephone SAR values. SAR (Specific Absorption Rate) is a measure of specific absorpsales, etc. tion rate, or the unit that describes the speed of absorption of electromagnetic energy per unit mass of tissue, and is expressed in W/kg. Pursuant to Directive 4.10 The fact that the number of mobile phone users is growing daily, corrobo1999/519/EC of the European Union on limiting exposure to electromagnetic rates the fact that many people can no longer imagine life without mobile phones. fields (0 Hz to 300 MHz), the permissible limits of SAR amount to 2 W/kg for It is safe to say that mobile phones improve everyday life in its various aspects every 10 g of tissue for the head and torso. The limitation has been taken over they allow us to be in contact with our loved ones at any given moment, they inby the Croatian Ordinance on the Protection From Electromagnetic Fields (OG crease efficiency of operations; they can be the only connection with the world 204/2003). The SAR value of mobile phones marketed by HT is less than 2 W/kg. to the elderly and the sick, and for many they represent a means of rescue from 53 Care for customers / Communication without limitations / Recycling (recovery) Communication without limitations 4.13 The speed of communications, high availability of its two-way direclatest achievements in the field of new technology gives our Company a tionality and the inclusion of a maximum number of participants in the role considerably broader than the responsibility of a quality new services widest dialogue or exchange of opinions is surely the global denominator provider. At the same time, and perhaps more importantly, the position of the time which we live in, and such is the direction of development of of the leader in the world of telecommunications almost makes the Comcommunications enabled precisely by the development of new technolopany a significant participant in the creation of a new world. gies. Therefore HT’s activity of monitoring and rapid implementation of Recycling (recovery) 4.14 For many years, even before it became a legal requirement in Croatia, HT has encouraged mobile service users to return used mobile phones, their batteries and equipment to HT stores. Such actions have been organized since 2005 with an excellent response from the users, which is justified by more than 111,000 collected and disposed used mobile phones. All the collected devices, equipment and batteries are submitted to authorized concessionaires for further treatment and recycling. 54 Care for customers / Customer protection Customer protection 4.15 Customers are the key of our business. Since we strive to provide the best services, we have put great efforts into ensuring that our customers receive support at the same level of quality and competitiveness. Specially organized support teams are available to our customers throughout the entire day, every day of the year; we also invest maximum effort in order to enable our customers the support and assistance in using the services they expect. Customers can contact our contact services through Internet sites, other electronic media, directly by telephone or in our offices. All complaints, comments and compliments are registered and we aim to resolve them in a reasonable amount of time to the satisfaction of our customers. Communication with customer service is also possible through social networks: Facebook and Twitter. Contact center 4.19 In terms of customer protection, one of the most important lawsuits in the 4.16 In addition to stores, T-Centres, and field teams, the Contact Centre is the area are the proceedings stated by several customers (as well as the Consumer customer’s first point of contact with the Company, and its agents are always Protection Association Potrošač), who have stated in their complaint that the available for all types of inquires or assistance. This is underlined by the fact that monthly access fees from customer contracts are unfair and represent a violation in 2011 the agents of HT’s Contact Centre answered a total of 7 million customer of the Consumers Act, and they challenge the 60-second billing unit. The lawsuit calls made to the toll-free number: 4.8 million calls regarding issues related to has been filed against the Company and the Republic of Croatia. fixed telephony services and 2.2 million calls related to mobile telephony. The principal determinant of the work of the centre is, of course, the focus on custo4.20 On 12 April 2007, the Municipal Court in Zagreb issued a ruling in favour of mers, who can contact the agents 24/7. the seven plaintiffs establishing partial revocation of the Contract Amending the Contract on the Concession for the Provision of Services in the Fixed Network as 4.17 By fostering and encouraging two-way communication with customers we Appendix 1 to the Contract and ordering the payment of certain amounts paid create the basis for their satisfaction. Meanwhile, the centre resolves the comto HT in the period between 1 September 2001 and 1 October 2003, given that plaints directed by the customers to that address and provides information, but the relevant changes to the prices of HT, as claimed in the ruling, were not in also sells products and services, while approaching each customer individually accordance with the applicable laws. After the ruling, all parties to the dispute (the and offering services tailored specifically to their needs. plaintiff, the Consumer Protection Association, municipal prosecutor representing the Republic of Croatia and the Company) appealed against the decision of the 4.18 The total number of complaints made by residential customers and resolved Municipal Court to the County Court in Zagreb. The County Court has not yet ruled. in 2011 was HRK 77,471 of which 43,704 complaints referred to T-Com bills and services, and 33,767 to the T-Mobile bills and services. Also, in 2011 there were 4.21 As a competitive company, we heavily invest in publicity and information. In 2079 complaints made by business customers regarding T-Com bills and services planning and developing our promotional activities we are guided by high standand technical capabilities and 3624 complaints based on bills, services and ards of professional conduct. We are prepared for the possibility of oversights, technical capabilities of users of T-mobile service for business customers. but we insist on timely correction of errors. For example, in one case from 2011, Several misdemeanour procedures related to the protection of consumers are the Croatian State Inspectorate warned Hrvatski Telekom d.d. to underline the currently underway, but in 2011 no final judgement against Hrvatski Telekom d.d. important information relating to the offers related to the 50% discount on the was rendered. monthly fee and mobile devices and accessories (the so-called Christmas offer) when broadcasting advertisements. Hrvatski Telekom d.d. modified its actions within the period provided for the above warning. 55 Care for customers / Customer satisfaction Customer satisfaction 4.22 The Company uses three methods of measuring customer satisfaction. The TRI * M survey of satisfaction and loyalty for residential customers is conducted on a quarterly basis, while for business customers this survey is conducted on a semi-annual basis. This survey measures the satisfaction and loyalty of our customers to us as a telecommunications company and to all of our services and processes that customers tried in the previous year. The survey forms the basis for a representative sample. The total result is represented by the TRI * M index which is 57 for T-Com and 58 for T-Mobile. 4.23 Another survey deals with customer satisfaction with certain sales channels and 4.24 The third survey deals with customer satisfaction with certain technicians is conducted quarterly for business and residential customers. The focus of this and is conducted quarterly for business and residential customers. The focus of survey is on the customers who have visited one of our stores or had contact with this survey is on those customers who have had a personal experience with our some of our sales partners over the past few weeks. This survey shows that custotechnicians in the past few weeks. This survey shows that the majority of custommers are generally strongly or completely satisfied with the sales staff, allowing the ers (64%) are satisfied with the service of our technicians, which was evaluated possibility to improve the proposal of services that best meet customer needs. as efficient, fast and well done. 56 Artist: Vladimir Frelih Art piece: Conflict 2 T-HTnagrada@msu.hr competition, 2011 Workplace Workplace / Workplace Workplace 5.1 From December 2008, the Human Resources Management Sector of Hrvatski Telekom has been certified according to the ISO 9001:2000 Standard. Following re-certification, from 29 December 2010, the Human Resources Support and Steering Function has been certified according to the ISO 9001:2008 standard for the following scope of activities: services from the field of management, development and strategy of human resources and managing employee relations. 5.2 The area of occupational safety has a defined process according to the ISO 9001:2008 Standard. The main objectives of the process are: • professional assistance to authorized representatives of the employer in conducting and organizing the implementation of the prescribed safety measures • improving the safety and health of employees at work, preventing or reducing work-related injuries to a minimum, reducing occupational diseases and other diseases related to work • improving work safety 5.3 On HT’s IntraNet website, employees can learn all about occupational safety, from the organization itself and its Coordinators, to providing first aid and work instructions in a safe manner, and various other important information in the field of occupational safety and health 5.4 The total number of employees at end of 2011 by type of contract (full-time and part-time, indefinite and definite contract): On 31 December 2011 Of which female employees Total number of employees 5,724 2,068 indefinite 5,539 1,973 definite 185 95 full-time employment contract 5,723 2,067 part-time employment contract 1 1 5.5 In the previous period there was a reduction in the labour force in HT due 5.6 In order to establish an additional system of care for workers covered by the to competitive market conditions and improved technological capabilities in Surplus Management Program, the Company launched a program called “Supoperations, which significantly increases productivity. As a competitive telecomport Plus” and related special websites for all users of this Program. The goal of munications company, HT is aware that long-term sustainability of the business this Program is to provide better, faster, and enhanced support to employees may entail making difficult decisions. Business-conditioned necessary need for leaving the Company due to necessary business changes when entering the reduction of the number of employees is approached in a responsible manner open labour market, as well as support in dealing with employment status. In in order to ensure that employees maximize their potential and to ensure the this way, all the employees made redundant have the opportunity, in addition long-term viability of the business. Sustainability of business is the key to keepto severance payments that are among the highest in Croatia, to obtain expert ing HT one of the largest companies in Croatia. help in finding work outside of HT. 58 Workplace / Workplace 5.7 Changes in the structure of employees by type and age groups Younger Type of termination Gender 30-50 Over 50 Total than 30 M 1 2 3 Death of employees F 1 1 Death of employees total 2 2 4 M 11 12 23 Termination of employment by mutual agreement F 9 10 19 Termination by mutual agreement total 20 22 42 Total 20 24 2 46 5.8 Employees by regions: Structure of employees according to gender and regions (NUTS2) Adriatic Croatia • Men • Women 68% 32% 1429 Central and East Croatia 76% 24% 443 North West Croatia 2104 196 60% 40% 631 921 North West Central and East Adriatic Croatia Croatia Croatia 5.9 HT is a company that operates in a highly competitive environment of the 5.12 The Committee for Occupational Safety meets at least once every three telecommunications industry that is constantly changing and requires new expert months. The Committee is comprised of the President, who is the Employer’s skills we are looking for on the market. Therefore, in 2011 we hired 142 new authorized representative, and the Members, two Occupational Safety Cooremployees, of which 61 male and 81 female. dinators, a MD of Occupational Medicine and a competent Occupational Safety Expert. TRAINING EMPLOYEES FOR SAFE WORK 5.10 Pursuant to the Occupational Safety Act and Work Safety Regulations of TRAINING IN THE FIELD OF Occupational Safety Hrvatski Telekom d.d., the employer conducts training for employees aimed at 5.13 The Occupational Safety Act (OG 59/96, 94./96, 114/03, 86/08, 75/09) sets educating them how to work in a safe manner: forth three educational categories concerning training in the field of occupational • before the employee commences employment safety, that is, training for safe work, and these are: • during changes in the work process 1. Employer and authorized persons of the employer for Occupational Safety • when changing jobs or workplace 2. Employees 3. Occupational Safety Coordinators. COMMITTEES FOR Occupational safety 5.11 In accordance with legal requirements and the structure of the Company, or TRAINING IN THE FIELD OF Occupational Safety FOR AUTHORIZED dislocation of some functional segments within the organizational structure of the REPRESENTATIVES OF THE EMPLOYER Company, the Management Board has decided to establish the following Com5.14 A special form of training of the Employer and its Authorized Representatives mittees for Occupational Safety as advisory bodies to the employer: in the field of Occupational Safety is training aimed at preventing injuries and occu• Central Committee for Occupational Safety based in Zagreb pational diseases, and the organization of the work process in a way that injuries of • Committee for Occupational Safety for Central and Northern Croatia, employees and occupational diseases are reduced to a minimum in the technoloCommi-ttee for Occupational Safety for Southern Croatia, Committee gies in which, on the basis of objective indicators (risk estimates), there is a risk of for Occupational Safety for Western Croatia and Committee for Occuinjuries and diseases that could endanger the safety and health of workers. pational Safety for Eastern Croatia. 59 Workplace / Workplace 5.15 Training in safe work practices of employees (as executor of jobs and tasks) 5.20 Based on the identified risk Risk assessment of jobs as a fundamental must be distinguished from training in the field of Occupational Safety and health document in the field of occupational safety, in accordance with statutory regu(of authorized representatives). lations, the Work Safety Regulations of Hrvatski Telekom d.d., the employer has determined the jobs and tasks requiring the use of an instrument, depend5.16 The direct executors of work need to know how to work in a safe manner, ing on the degree of danger and adversity, for which indicative time frames for and the organizers of the work process (such as authorized representatives of the allocation and use of protective equipment are determined. the employee) must know how to provide safe working conditions. 5.21 The Occupational Safety Work Unit performs the training of employees for In connection with the above, the Management Board of Hrvatski Telekom desisafe work, based on the authorization obtained from the competent authority, gnated the authorized persons of the employer in the field of occupational safety, the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship through their experts as follows: theoretically, electronically via e-learning, and in practice in the work place. 1. Authorized Representative • Operating Director 5.22 Average annual number of training hours per employee by employee category • Director • Head of Work Unit Duration of trainAverage number ing in days in hours 2. Immediate Authorized Representative • Coordinator Managerial structures 1.4 11.2 • Manager Excecutive structures 1.7 13.6 • Any person supervising one or more employees 5.17 The training of Authorized Representatives of the Employer in the field of 5.23 In a year of economic crisis, the largest challenge was to continue to invest Occupational Safety in Hrvatski Telekom is conducted by a contracted service in the development of employees in order to increase corporate as well as provider, authorized company for work safety. Training is conducted electropersonal competitiveness and thus significantly contribute to the achievement nically via e-learning. of our objectives and the quality of services provided to our customers. Market demands and further technological development do not allow us stagnation in TRAINING IN THE FIELD OF Occupational Safety FOR COORDINATORS learning and increasing our own competencies. The balance between limited 5.18 Hrvatski Telekom has provided training for selected Occupational Safety resources and the need to invest in further development of employees affected Coordinators. The selection, appointment, number and the period for which the way we work we put our own resources and exchange of knowledge in the the Coordinators are elected is done in accordance with the provisions of the foreground, and with the optimal management of all resources, our objective Labour Act which deal with issues of Workers’ Council and in accordance with was to preserve the quality of services provided by Human Resources. the provisions of the Occupational Safety Act on the obligation for selecting Coordinators where conditions require it (increased threat to the safety and 5.24 Although investments in development activities are somewhat lower than health of workers, work at remote locations, etc.) before the economic crisis, we still invest significantly in the development of employees by raising their personal competitiveness through the development The training of Occupational Safety Coordinators was conducted by a contraof knowledge and competence with respect to the demonstrated potential. cted service provider, authorized company for work safety. Pursuant to the ColleIn 2011, 1366 employees participated in a variety of educational programs, of ctive Agreement, the Occupational Safety Coordinator must report to the Workwhich 932 male and 434 female employees. ers’ Council on his/her work at least every three months. 19 Occupational Safety Coordinators were appointed in 2011. 5.25 In addition to standard programs (market knowledge, customer orientation, collaboration, innovation, and increasing personal effectiveness) and professional Personal safety equipment trainings, development activities involve other forms of training that are based 5.19 In order to protect the body and body parts which are subject to certain on the exchange of knowledge: mentoring, visits to the business area and types of risks and hazards during work, employees are provided personal proteinternational development programs. ctive equipment, if the risk (hazards and harms) can not be eliminated by other measures of protection. E-learning Employees have the opportunity to use simple interactive e-learning from specific knowledge aimed at particular groups of employees to the overview of Company’s 60 Workplace / Workplace services and a telecom dictionary. Employees can access e-learning from home. rity of data, compliance of our operations. Knowledge on Thursdays Closer to the customer :) Twelve different, but up-to-date presentations, excellent speakers, interesting Internal resources realized a program which aims at promoting a culture of serpresentations and always a hall full of interested listeners this is how our vice in the Company. Through a theoretical and a practical part, the participants Knowledge Thursdays meetings looked during 2011. Our experts from different have the opportunity to learn about the products and services of our Company, areas generously shared knowledge, gave answers and taught their colleagues. gain an understanding of customers, their needs and expectations, and in direct This year we learned more about our network, new technologies, products and contact with the customer have experiences they then integrate into their own services, energy efficiency, customer satisfaction, legal issues, safety and secuenvironment in order to achieve excellence of service. WORKPLACE SAFETY 5.26 An overview of work-related injuries by quarters for 2010 and 2011 2010 2011 Period 01.01.01.04.01.07.01.10.01.01.01.04.01.07.01.10.31.03 30.06 30.09 31.12 31.03 30.06 30.09 31.12 Average number of employees 5942 5949 5947 5964 5986 5918 5757 5750 Total number of work-related injuries 18 23 19 38 24 19 21 36 Share in the total number of employees 0.30 0.38 0.31 0.63 0.40 0.32 0.36 0.62 Minor 7 12 11 11 12 8 9 12 Injuries in the Major 1 1 1 3 1 2 Occupational injury work process Total 8 12 12 12 15 9 11 12 % 0.13 0.20 0.20 0.20 0.25 0.15 0.19 0.20 Total 10 11 7 26 9 10 10 24 Injuries outside the work % 0.16 0.18 0.11 0.43 0.15 0.16 0.17 0.41 process An overview of work related injuries by quarters in the total number of employees 0.7 0.63 0.62 0.6 0.5 0.43 0.4 0.41 0.36 0.4 0.31 0.32 0.36 0.3 0.3 0.25 0.2 0.2 0.2 0.17 0.2 0.2 0.16 0.16 0.18 0.15 0.15 0.19 0.1 0.13 0.11 0.05 0.03 0.01 0 0.01 0.01 0.02 0 1E-1S Q1 2010. Q2 2010. Q3 2010. Q4 2010. Q1 2011. Q2 2011. Q3 2011. Q4 2011. -0.1 • Total injuries • Work related injuries • Injuries outside work • Severe work related injuries 61 Workplace / Workplace 5.27 Other than the legally stipulated framework of cooperation with employees, The continuous care about employee health has been complemented by Intranet the Company implements a number of training, education, counselling and pages dedicated to the preservation of health and prevention of illnesses with the prevention programs aimed at prevention and helping our employees. In 2011, Zdravko Program. Since most of our employees spend their working hours at the 1046 employees were trained in rendering first aid. computer, a film providing exercises which employees can do at the workplace has been produced by using our own resources. The “healthy” pages provide ADDITIONAL CARE ABOUT THE HEALTH OF EMPLOYEES the employees with the opportunity to read interviews with physicians, specialists 5.28 Within the initiative of preventing illnesses, Hrvatski Telekom organizes of a certain area and a series of useful advice regarding health care. Also, some medical check-ups for all employees and vaccination against seasonal influenza, specialized clinics offer discounts to employees of HT. and employees who may come into contact with ticks are also provided with vaccination and additional vaccination. Sports and recreation Amateur sports is a tradition of the employees of HT who engage in various 5.29 In addition to the service of medical check-ups for employees, which is organized sports and recreational activities. The Company offers its full support guaranteed by the Collective Agreement, HT has arranged a discount on the by allocating annual funds for this purpose. A number of amateurs are dedicated price of each additional examination that any employee needs or wants after the to practising throughout the year, as reflected in the annual sports meetings of check-up, as recommended by a doctor or upon personal request. The possibilour employees, and sporting events often go beyond the limits of our country and ity of check-ups for immediate family members of employees (spouses, children, see them engaging in friendly competitions with colleagues from other telecoparents) under favourable conditions have also been arranged, as well as a mmunications companies. discount on the price of each additional exam. Zdravko “Healthy” Intranet sites An important part of a large study on employee satisfaction, conducted once every two years, are some of the issues pertaining to the health of employees, especially their exposure to stress and balance between work and private life, since they are important factors that affect the general well-being of employees. 62 Workplace / Competitive workplace Competitive workplace EDUCATION AND TRAINING OF PERSONNEL PERFORMANCE MANAGEMENT 5.30 The Performance Management System of Hrvatski Telekom is based on monitoring the achievement of long-term strategic, but also short-term targets of the Company by linking Company objectives with individual objectives of each employee. 5.31 The goal of the Performance Management System is to enable every employee to clearly link his personal performance to the success of the Company. HT has several models of performance management, depending on the type of work that employees perform. Employees at the Company receive information on their performance in a way that they are first given objectives, after which their progress is monitored through the year and, finally, their performance is evaluated, and depending on that evaluation, rewards are paid. Number of Number of female Number of Number of female employees with employees with % rated employees employees an evaluation an evaluation Annual evaluation 4003 1123 3884 1031 97% Mid-year evaluation 665 413 628 377 94% Sales bonus 730 399 702 372 96% Managerial bonus 290 108 288 106 99% Total 5688 5502 97% Only the employees who had not worked in the Company long enough to participate in the performance assessment were without an evaluation. 5.32 Career development program for employees provides each employee with an overview of their performance, competence level and potential and offers further opportunities for development. The program covers all employees. Other than the opportunity for the development of their competence, knowledge and skills depending on the assessment of potential, employees have the opportunity to align mutual expectations and guide their development through quality dialogue with their superiors. Gender structure in HT 2011 36 37 33 40 34 58 64 63 67 60 66 42 Employees Managers MB Members Operating Directors Heads of WU total total Directors • male • female 63 Workplace / Competitive workplace Structure by gender in HT on 31 December 2011 Category of employees M F TOTAL Managers 178 108 286 Employees 3478 1960 5438 TOTAL 3656 2068 5724 5.33 The fact that everyone has equal opportunities in the Company regardless of gender is best evidenced by the following data: taking into account all levels of management, the share of women in management is 37%, which is higher than the share of women in the total percentage of employees. The share of women in top management is even higher, 43%, while the number of female operating officers on the level of management immediately under a MB Member is 58%. 5.34 The Management Board of Hrvatski Telekom is comprised of two female and four male Members. 5.35 Structure by age in 2011 21% 19% 14% 13% 12% 11% 7% 2% 1% 19 20 24 25 29 30 34 35 39 40 44 45 49 50 54 55 59 60 + THE SYSTEM OF REWARDING AND ENCOURAGING EXCELLENCE The contracted salaries for managerial positions are on average 2.8 higher than 5.36 The ratio of basic salary of male and female managers indicates that female those for executive positions. That ratio is 2.9 for female and 2.7 for male employees. managers on average have 6% higher salaries than their male counterparts. The reason lies in the structure and distribution of jobs within the Company. 5.37 Pursuant to the Act and our internal regulations, a parent who has used For the same reason the average calculated and paid salary of male emplomaternity/parental leave not only returns after maternity/parental leave to the job yees is 3% higher than the average male employee’s salary. he/she previously held or a parallel job, but we have also had cases when the Differences in relation to the average contracted salary by gender and age Company waited for an employee to return from maternity leave to immediately group (paid salary can vary according to the contracted due to, for example, promote her to a higher managerial position upon returning to work. Our Comovertime hours, use of sick leave, etc.) pany supports the legal possibility for parents to choose who, when and for how long they will stay with the child on maternity/parental leave and is no longer surprising to see fathers increasingly taking parental leave. Age groups M F Younger than 30 0.3% -0.3% 30 50 1.0% -1.7% Over 50 -0.2% 0.5% Average in HRK 0.9% -1.6% Executive structures 1,7 13,6 64 Workplace / Competitive workplace 5.38 The number of employees who used the maternity/parental leave and leave for caring for a child with disabilities in 2011 is 14 male and 231 female employees. Returned to work Returned to work Total over the year Total over the year in 2010 in 2011 The number of employees who used maternity/paternal leave 2010 2011 and leave for caring for a child with disabilities Male 14 13 14 13 Female 231 225 237 226 TOTAL 245 238 251 239 The number of employees whose employment terminated in 2011 and who used maternity leave/parental leave or leave for caring for a child with disabilities in 2010 Termination of employment due to personal reasons 3 Termination of employment by mutual agreement 1 Surplus Management Program 1 Expiry of employment contract concluded for a fixed period* 5 * Employees went on maternity/parental leave while under a fixed-term contract, which expired at the date to which it has been concluded 5.39 In order to help future parents working in HT deal with the myriad of oblimarket. At the highest level of decision making, the selection process is congations and rules that expect them before and after the birth of a child we have trolled by a separate Committee within the Supervisory Board, the objective of produced a brochure entitled “Maternity and parental leave everything you which is to ensure transparency in the process of attracting the best professionneed to know”. als to the Company4. The share of Croatian citizens in management was 98.5% (in 2011 we had four foreigners as Directors and a Board Member). 5.40 The recruitment process begins by defining the need of the business for On 31 December new employees and the approval of the request in accordance with the plan. 2011 Candidates are selected from several sources primarily through internal comTotal number of employees 5724 petitions, and external candidates are selected from the candidate database, of which female 2068 at jobs fairs, through contact and collaboration with the academic community, using specialized agencies and external competitions. The selection process Total number of foreign employees 4 involves a classic psychological test, an interview aimed at checking compeof which female 1 tency and an interview with a representative of the business area and Human Resources. Following the decision on hiring and salary adopted by the salary 5.43 Each position in HT is evaluated in terms of: the impact the activities of committee, the future employee signs a letter of intent and the employment that workplace have on the operation of HT, the values of the same jobs in the contract is prepared. Croatian labour market, key responsibilities of the job, the difficulty of the job and working conditions under which activities are conducted and is accordNumber of newly employed persons in 2011 by gender ingly classified in the appropriate salary band. Salary bands incorporate groups Gender Total of jobs that are identical or similar in level of complexity, responsibility, knowlM 61 edge, experience and competencies required for their successful performance, F 81 and the salary of each employee is within the range of the band into which the position is classified, depending on the performance of the employee and the Total 142 necessary knowledge, experience, responsibility and quality of work. 5.41 Business processes in HT are governed by managerial staff (management) 5.44 The employee’s salary is determined by employment contract in a gross through 4 levels of management within the appropriate organizational units: amount increased by the amount of salary supplements for working in special 1) Management Board (CEO and Board Members) conditions (overtime, night work, shift work, work on Saturdays, Sundays, 2) Operating Directors holidays, awards, etc.), rewards and remuneration. According to the Central 3) Directors, Bureau of Statistics (OG 66/10), the amount of the minimum wage for the period 4) Managers of Work Units. from 1 June 2010 to 31 May 2011 in Croatia was HRK 2,814. The gross basic salary for a job in the lowest, first salary band amounts to HRK 5,000.00, which 5.42 The recruitment of managerial structures is no different from the recruitis 78% more than the minimum wage. Other increases to the salary are added ment procedure on all levels of the Company because the aim is to attract the to that amount. The difference between the average wage of men and women in most capable future managers both within the Company and from the labour the Company are due to the different jobs they perform and which are under the 4) see chapter 2 65 Workplace / Competitive workplace Collective Agreement and the Salary Regulations, divided into different salary ADVANTAGES AT THE WORKPLACE bands5. The average monthly gross salary paid in HT during 2011 amounted to 5.47 All employees have equal benefits. These are the following financial HRK 10,859.00, which is by 1.9% more than the average gross salary paid in benefits: bonuses, Christmas bonuses, gifts for children, vouchers for Easter, 2010 amounting to HRK 10,661.00. The compensation to the Members of the jubilee rewards, various kinds of financial assistance set forth in the Collective Management Board consist of a fixed part and a variable part which is deterAgreement, etc.. Employees have the right to compensation for the costs of mined based on the implementation of the goals for the current year. transportation to and from work, and when retiring, they are entitled to a severance payment. 5.45 At Company level, there are Medium-Term Incentive Plans (MTIP) and LongTerm Incentive Plans (LTIP Variable II) as tools for rewarding high and senior 5.48 All employees are covered by accident insurance policy with an authorized management. The plans promote the medium and long-term increase in value of insurance company for 24 hours, in case of death due to accident, permanent the Company by aligning the interests of management and shareholders. These disability, accident and hospitalization coverage. incentive plans define goals that are based on the price of the shares, or certain financial and non-financial KPIs, and are in accordance with the principles of 5.49 In cases of serious illness of employees or members of their family and incentives of DT Group6. The compensation is not directly linked to individual for the elimination of the consequences of a natural disaster, an employee may social and ecological business indicators. receive financial assistance in cash. Requests are reviewed by the Committee for A plan of allocation of own (treasury) shares of HT was introduced in late 2011 consideration of requests and development of proposals for granting financial (and will take effect in 2012), as part of the International Business Leaders (BLT) assistance. In 2011, assistance was granted to several dozen employees. An Plan of the DT Group. almost equal number of employees was financially supported by the PrijaTelj Detailed descriptions of these plans and the amount of all compensations paid to Foundation. By systematic care for employees, HT has established the PrijaTelj Members of the Management Board in 2011 is given in the Annual Report for the Foundation that helps employees when they need it the most. business year 2011. http://www.t.ht.hr/investitori/rezultati.asp#, 5.50 On HT’s Intranet site you can also find a special offer of companies offering 5.46 Compensation received by the Members of the Supervisory Board are deterproducts and services at lower prices only for employees of our Company. mined by the General Assembly and not determined by their contribution to the success of the Company, but rather the average net salary of employees of the Investment in education is an investment in the future of the Company and the Company. The Company has determined that the President of the Supervisory employees, therefore we support lifelong learning. Board receives a fee equal to 1.5 of the average net salary of the employees of the Company paid in the previous month. The compensation of the Deputy President is 1.25 average net salary of the employees of the Company paid in the previous month, while other Members of the Supervisory Board receive compensation in the amount of one average net salary of the employees of the Company paid in the previous month. A Member of the Supervisory Board who is also Chairman of the Audit Committee of the Supervisory Board receives a fee of 1.5 of the average monthly net salary of the employees of the Company paid in the previous month. A Member of the Supervisory Board who is also a Member of the Audit Committee of the Supervisory Board receives a fee of 1.25 of the average monthly net salary of the employees of the Company paid in the previous month. A Member of the Supervisory Board who is also a Member of the Compensation and Nomination Committee of the Supervisory Board receives a fee of 1.25 of the average monthly net salary of the employees of the Company paid in the previous month. In accordance with the policy of DTAG, DTAG representatives do not receive any compensation for membership in the Supervisory Board. The amount of all fees paid to Members of the Supervisory Board in 2011 are given in the Annual Report for the business year 2011. http://www.t.ht.hr/investitori/rezultati.asp# 5) See 5.36. 6) For more information go to http://www.cr-report.telekom.com/site12/employees/competitive-workforce/remuneration#atn-1389-2570 66 Workplace / Competitive workplace The scope of the employee support program Training and Prevention / Counselling Care education risk control Employee x x x x Families of the employees x x Members of the community COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AND LABOR RIGHTS consent of the WC. For example, if it wants to introduce a six-day working week 5.51 The Workers’ Council protects and promotes the interests of workers by due to requirements of business operation. offering counselling, co-deciding or negotiations with the employer or the authorized person about the issues important for the workers. One of its most important The relationship between the employer and the Workers’ Council is also laid roles is to appoint a Member of the Supervisory Board as the representative of down in the Agreement on the Working Conditions of the Workers’ Council of the employees. The Workers Council of Hrvatski Telekom d.d. is comprised of 19 HT, comprising also a detailed explanation of when the employer must consult members in accordance with the provisions of the Labour Act and the Regulawith the Workers’ Council and for which decisions it must obtain the approval of tions on the selection of Workers’ Councils. the Workers’ Council. 5.52 The Workers Council receives proposals of changes that may affect the 5.55 The Collective Agreement also regulates the area of Occupational Safety and status of workers, on which it then gives its consent or provides cooperation; the the employer’s obligations regarding the application of regulations, workers’ deadline for submitting materials for the sessions of the Council is eight working rights, improvement of work safety and the tasks of the Work Safety Coordinator, days prior to a session. Also, in accordance with the Labour Act, a quarterly reas well as support programs for employees. port on the operations and development plans and their impact on the economic and social position of employees as well as other information relevant to the ecoWe wish to emphasize that the notice period is regulated by the Labour Act and nomic and social position of workers shall be submitted to the Workers’ Council. is as such entered into the Collective Agreement. The notice period is variable, depending on the duration of employment (two weeks for employees working 5.53 As required by the Agreement on Working Conditions of the Workers’ less than one year to three months in case of employees working for 20 years) Council of HT, the employer shall every three months inform the Council on the and the reasons for terminating the employment. The notice period may, dependfollowing: condition, results of operations and organization of work, development ing on the circumstances, be longer or shorter than the periods specified for plans and their impact on the economic and social position of workers, trends cases where additional events did not occur. and changes in wages, the extent and reasons for the introduction of overtime work, the number and type of people employed by the employer, the structure of During the notice period workers are entitled to their salary. An employee in the employment and the development and recruitment policy, implementing decinotice period is entitled to four hours a week of justifiable absence from work for sions on the allocation of working time and the redistribution of working hours, the purposes of seeking a new job. HT does not implement this because, as a health safety and measures to improve working conditions, the number of and rule, employees who have been made redundant are exempt from work during reasons for the operation of workers recruited through temporary employment the notice period as there is no longer a need for their work. agencies, the number and reasons for engaging students and other issues of particular importance for the economic and social position of the worker at the PENSION INSURANCE special request of the Workers’ Council. 5.56 The pension system in Croatia is regulated by law and applies to all business and private entities. The system consists of three pillars: 1st pillar: manda5.54 A partner dialogue is continually conducted with social partners, trade tory pension insurance based on generational solidarity, 2nd pillar: mandatory unions and employee representatives in labour institutions. The Collective Agreeold-age pension insurance based on individual capitalized savings, 3rd pillar: ment in force reflects a high degree of employees’ rights in HT. The Collective voluntary pension insurance based on individual capitalized savings. Agreement covers all employees in workplaces classified from grades 1 to 8 of the salary band, and the employer may enter into specific agreements on their 5.57 In accordance with the applicable legislation, HT, as well as all other comrights and obligations with senior officers. panies in Croatia, is obligated to regularly pay contributions for all employees in the generational solidarity system at a rate of 20%, applicable in the 1st pillar. The Collective Agreement, in accordance with legal provisions, stipulates the For policyholders who are insured in both mandatory pillars, the contribution rate cases in which the employer must consult with the Workers’ Council. For examfor the first pillar is 15%, whereas in the second pillar pays a contribution of 5% ple, the employer is obliged to consult with the Workers’ Council in making Deciis paid to personal accounts in mandatory pension funds. Contributions to the sions on working hours as well as the changes thereof, and when drafting a plan pension insurance is mandatory for all employees of the Company. of allocating annual vacation. For certain decisions the employer must obtain the 67 Workplace / Competitive workplace The third pillar is, just as the second one, based on individual capitalized savings, 5.60 In early 2011, all employees and executives were informed about the Antibut the member of the fund determines the amount and dynamics of contribuCorruption Policy through HT’s official gazette, e-mail and the presentation as a tions through voluntary payments. part of “Knowledge on Thursdays.” The Anti-Corruption Policy is available on the Intranet to all employees and supervisors, as well as the “Ask Me” Portal, which Hrvatski Telekom is the founder and sponsor of the T-HT Closed-End Voluntary they can turn to in case of doubt and the “Tell me” Portal in the case of report. In Pension Fund with favourable terms and benefits for HT employees who join it. 2011 there were no confirmed cases of discrimination. The Collective Agreement allows each employee the option of deciding whether he or she wants the employer to pay the HRK 6000 gross in the form of payment 5.61 Furthermore, the Ethics line has been established as an alternative system in the T-HT Closed-End Voluntary Pension fund (HRK 500 per month) or as an providing the employees and customers with a confidential and, if desired, anoannual vacation bonus. nymous means of reporting misconduct or violations against the Code of Conduct. Any complaint or information may be reported in several ways through the Ethics PREVENTING DISCRIMINATION IN THE WORKPLACE line: 5.58 The Code of Conduct and the Social Charter of HT ban discrimination. • mail: T-Hrvatski Telekom, Etička linija, Savska cesta 32, 10000 Zagreb However, if it should occur in spite of standardized processes, it can be reported • telephone: 0800 9823 (workdays from 9a.m. to 3p.m.) through the “Tell me” Portal, which serves as a tool for anonymous reporting of • fax: 0800 9824 the violation of ethical principles and the Code of Conduct. • e-mail: Eticka.Linija@t.ht.hr Hrvatski Telekom complies with legal requirements and provides its employees and executives with transparent rules of procedure in the “Anti-Corruption Policy 5.62 According to the Collective Agreement, HT is obligated to protect the dignity of HT d.d.” as an additional measure of prevention of corruption. of the worker, and the worker has the right to make a complaint to the authorized person in connection with all forms of discrimination and protection of dignity. In 5.59 Special emphasis in educating employees and executives during 2011 was 2011, HT did not record any case of discrimination. There were three cases of placed on the Code of Conduct. The plan for educating more employees and exereporting suspected potential discrimination that were immediately resolved cutives in terms of Anti-Corruption Policy is provided in the Education Plan 2012. therefore, there was no need for an official report, legal actions or documentation. 68 Workplace / Competitive workplace 69 Workplace / Culture of helping Culture of helping Volunteering reforestation 5.63 As a part of this donor project conducted by our Company in cooperation with Croatian Forests, on 2 December HT’s employees from the Network System and Services Development Sector participated in the reforestation of Turopoljski lug by planting saplings of the English Oak. After the experts of Croatian Forests acquainted them with the management of the lowland forests and demonstrated the works in planting and reforestation, 26 employees contributed to the greening of the area by planting hundreds of saplings. 70 Artist: Alem Korkut Art piece: Nerves T-HTnagrada@msu.hr competition, 2011 Cooperation with suppliers Cooperation with suppliers / Cooperation with suppliers Cooperation with suppliers 6.1 HT’s cooperation with suppliers is not limited to the individual procurement procedures; we are developing strategic partnerships with suppliers over repeated, long-term cooperation in several aspects: • Pre-selection of potential suppliers in the market • Evaluation of the capabilities of potential suppliers during the acquisition process • Post-evaluation of the selected and contracted suppliers during the execution of the signed contract. 6.2 The procurement organizational unit of Hrvatski Telekom develops and 6.3 Given the nature of the business of Hrvatski Telekom and the industry it cultivates a partner business relationship with its suppliers of goods, services operates in, it is more an exception than the rule that a business relationship and works. The procurement business process is transparent to all participants with selected suppliers is not continued for a longer time because they are and the rules of the procurement process and the procurement policy of Hrvatalso a part of our supply chain, which takes place in cyclic repetitions, by folski Telekom in general are clearly defined by an internal act, the Procurement lowing development trends and rapid technological development. Regulations and other internal regulations. 72 Cooperation with suppliers / Sustainability strategy for suppliers / Use of raw materials Sustainability strategy for suppliers 6.4 Before, during and after the procurement process, Hrvatski Telekom expects 6.5 To further enhance this relationship and encourage the development of from its suppliers to adhere to the Code of Conduct of the Company, the Social all forms of business cooperation, not only those closely related to contracting Charter, the Principles and Guidelines for Prevention of Conflicts of Interest certain goods, services or works, but support as early as possible the involveand Corruption Anti-Corruption Policy, which we adhere to. Although these ment of strategic partners in the planning and development of new products are internal acts, suppliers become the subjects of the supply chain by partiand services of Hrvatski Telekom, we are currently developing the procurecipating in the supply process, and we proactively inform them on how best ment strategy at the local and international level, and in light of that, creating to comply with all the instructions and good business practice. a separate team to support the strategic suppliers. Special focus will be placed on the determinants of sustainable development and operations, and the idea is to implement a Sustainable Operations Questionnaire among the largest suppliers of goods, services and works as soon as possible. Use of raw materials 6.6 Although the primary activity of Hrvatski Telekom is not production, the Company is deeply aware of the environmental impact of large systems. Rational use of raw materials does not only generate savings, but equally represents an understanding of the impact on natural resources, and raises awareness of our employees about the need to care about the consumption of raw materials. Rational use of resources is an important element of sustainable operations and is part of our strategy of socially responsible business operation. 73 Cooperation with suppliers / Selecting suppliers Selecting suppliers 6.7 As one of the largest companies in the Republic of Croatia, HT is continuously exposed to business and market risks. This also applies to our relations with suppliers. For this reason we tend to establish long-term and transparent relationships in order to minimize the risk of unprofessional conduct and establish relationships based on trust, exchange of information and the insistence on the highest level of professionalism and expertise. 6.8 The procurement organizational unit of Hrvatski Telekom operates in an 6.12 During the acquisition process, bidders are required to submit legally accethical and honest manner in all business relationships with its suppliers and eptable evidence of solvency of their business and other documents that show other legal entities with whom we do business, and participants of the procuthe regularity of their operations, as well as references from past or current rement process from Hrvatski Telekom must be impartial and act in accordbusiness partners, in accordance with good business practice and in accordance with all applicable Croatian legislation and in accordance with the all ance with the principle of good faith in business and business behaviour. All of applicable internal regulations and instructions of Hrvatski Telekom, in partithe above is incorporated in the provisions of the Procurement Regulations of cular the Code of Conduct, Social Policy, Principles and Guidelines for PrevenHrvatski Telekom. tion of Conflicts of Interest and Corruption Anti-Corruption Policy, the Policy on the Acceptance of Gifts, Rewards and other Benefits and HT Group’s 6.13 The possibility of legal and business risks that may result in a dispute, Donation Policy. serious damage and risk to property, reputation, or position of the Company is inherent to every procurement process. There are various ways of protection 6.9 The procurement process must be conducted in a fully transparent maagainst risks addressed by separate, different segments of financial operations. nner, and shall not discriminate or treat preferentially any of the bidders (cf. With regard to the part of operations relating to procurement, the business pracProcurement Regulations of Hrvatski Telekom provisions of Paragraphs 2 tice is to sign a special declaration confirming acceptance of business conduct and 3 of Article 2 Business Conduct). and morality applied by the client, which must be adhered to by all participants of the procurement process (the client and the bidders). In the long-term, an 6.10 All potential or already contracted suppliers of Hrvatski Telekom are additional way of diminishing the risk of disclosure of trade secrets, which also continuously checked on whether they meet the selection criteria in the form raises the level of trust and partnership to a higher, strategic level, is to sign a of pre-qualification for the procurement process. The selection criteria of bidnon-disclosure agreement. ders are determined right before the beginning of the procurement process, and the results of the pre-qualification are transparent and verifiable. 6.14 Based on the implementation of these principles of cooperation with suppliers, it is particularly important to point out that during the reporting period 6.11 The most common criteria are: there were no confirmed cases of violation of any aspect of human rights by • positive financial operating results, if there are publicly available data. the Company or its suppliers, either in terms of child labour, all forms of forced • that the bidder is not registered on a list of prohibited suppliers, the solabour or the rights of minorities. called embargo list. • that there is no evidence of a failure to perform contractual obligations that the supplier has performed in the past • that there is no proven conflict of interest • that there is no knowledge of socially irresponsible behaviour of the supplier, human rights violations and the like. 74 Cooperation with suppliers / Managing the supply chain Managing the supply chain 6.15 The primary role of procurement as part of the supply management chain is the procurement of goods, works and services in a timely and cost effective manner, to provide a flexible response to market changes and to ensure the most favourable conditions in the supply chain as well as the most convenient way of outflow of resources for Hrvatski Telekom. 6.16 Therefore, for HT it is equally important to achieve communication channels 6.17 The managerial staff actively participates in round table discussions on with suppliers during the realization of the contracts awarded, as well as during the topic of supply chain management and gives lectures on the need for the pre-selection of bidders. For this purpose various business tools aiming at collaboration of all participants in the supply chain in order to achieve lower an easier, faster and simpler communication are used and developed. These procurement costs for everyone in the chain. are tools that allow for the submission of tenders electronically, exchange of contractual documents via a tool that captures all changes made during negotiations, a tool for two-way delivery of purchase orders under the contract, and of course the accompanying training and workshops on how to download (they are free for bidders and suppliers), use and update these tools regularly. 75 Ime autora: Sebastijan Dračić Art piece: Beginning and End of the World T-HTnagrada@msu.hr competition, 2011 Impact on the environment Impact on the environment / Managing the impact on the environment Managing the impact on the environment 7.1 Development of new technologies and international telecommuni7.8 In accordance with our commitment to maintain compliance with cations standards also affects the area of environmental protection. legal and other requirements, within the framework of the implementation Ecological orientation and developed awareness of HT is evident in its of internal audits, HT regularly performs evaluation of conformity of its commitment to the establishment of an Environmental Management actions in the protection of the environment with the applicable legal and System according to ISO 14001:2004. The application of this internaother requirements which the Company has undertaken to observe. tional standard enables HT to shape the Environmental Management Policy and objectives, taking into account legal requirements and infor7.9 In accordance with the requirements of the ISO 14001:2004 Standard, mation about significant environmental impacts. the Management of HT once a year reviews the introduced Environmental Management System to ensure its continued relevance, applicability and 7.2 The Management Board of HT has adopted the Environmental effectiveness. On that occasion we evaluate compliance with legal and Management Policy, which describes the general purposes and objecother requirements and opportunities for improving the system and the tives of HT in terms of environmental protection, and is publicly availaneed for change. ble on the official website of HT (link:http://www.t.ht.hr/odgovornost/ zastitaokolisa-certifikat.asp). 7.10 HT has established, implements and maintains procedures for regular monitoring and measurement of the main features of its processes and 7.3 In June 2010, Hrvatski Telekom passed certification under the ISO activities that have a significant impact on the environment. Monitoring and 14001 Standard for environmental management, while in 2002 T-Mobile, measurement of parameters is in accordance with legal and other regulathen a mobile communications subsidiary of HT, was certified accordtions, objectives and targets. Criteria for assessing compliance have been ing to this Standard. established as well. Moreover, HT has established and implements and maintains procedures to address potential or actual non-compliance and 7.4 HT also gained the right to the prestigious Environmental Certificate initiate corrective and preventive actions. of the strongest international association of certifiers IQNet (International Quality Network). 7.11 In order to raise awareness of all HT employees on the importance and the need to protect the environment and the established Environ7.5 The certificates are available to the public on HT’s official website mental Management System, as well as certain procedures regarding the (link: http://www.t.ht.hr/odgovornost/zastitaokolisa-certifikat.asp). protection of the environment in the Company, we carry out systematic education. All employees at all levels of responsibility are included in the 7.6 In order to increase transparency, to harmonize criteria for a unified training. Training programs are adapted to employees, teams and the manapproach to all stakeholders, a project of implementation of an umbrella agement and are aimed at the acquisition of knowledge and skills related ISO 14001 Environmental Management Certificate was launched on to environmental management and at detecting and monitoring significant Deutsche Telekom Group level. The environmental management system effects on the environment, determining the duties and responsibilities in of Hrvatski Telekom was integrated into the umbrella certificate in 2010. achieving the objectives outlined in environmental policy, raising the level of awareness of the possible consequences in case of deviations from 7.7 The Management Board of HT adopted a decision on appointing the planned procedures, work instructions and ways to prevent adverse one of its Members as Representative of the Management Board for the impacts on the environment, people and property. An e-learning course Environment. The Representative of the Management Board for the Enwhich employees access on-line through the Company’s Intranet has also vironment is responsible and has the authority to introduce, implement been developed and for the groups of employees whose work may have and maintain the Environmental Management System in HT in accorda significant impact on the environment special training and seminars are ance with ISO 14001:2004. He reports to the Management Board on held. Since 12 April 2010, when it became available, until the end of 2011, the implementation of general and individual objectives and programs the on-line course was successfully completed by more than 2000 employas well as activities of the System. Also, the Board has appointed an ees, and in 2011 seminars were attended by some 300 employees. Environmental Manager as the person responsible for environmental management in the Company 77 Impact on the environment / Managing the impact on the environment 7.12 On the other hand, audits are one of the ways in which Hrvatski • Identify, monitor and measure all major sources of greenhouse gas Telekom verifies the performance of its partners and suppliers in environemissions caused by activities that are directly or indirectly related mental management, their compliance with legal requirements in the to the regular business of the T-HT Group and affect their reduction field of environmental protection and possession of required certificates, wherever possible by introducing appropriate policies and procedures authorizations and permits. Special attention is paid to suppliers and • Improve energy efficiency in all major business processes (in netexternal contractors whose goods or services may have significant impact works, office buildings, transport of people and cargo, administration) on the environment and the reports from these audits are one form of and harmonize energy expenditure with the growth of the business. the input data for the evaluation of partners and suppliers. Since 2004, a • Plan and design all new equipment and services, including terminals, total of 30 supervisions of business partners that dispose waste, maintain elements of fixed and mobile networks, commercial buildings for various devices, systems, facilities and vehicles and measure the level of devices and offices, purchase of new vehicles, spare generators, etc. electromagnetic fields in mobile networks for HT have been performed. A in accordance with the criteria for energy efficiency. total of 5 second party audits were performed in 2011 and 6in 2010. We • Wherever possible, use renewable energy, and purchase energy from have checked the companies which perform the maintenance of network, suppliers that deliver energy that produces less greenhouse gas cooling devices, vehicles and space. emissions per unit of energy and at the best price; gain the status of privileged buyer for the purchase of electricity and use it when 7.13 Since HT is primarily a telecommunications company, there is no purchasing electricity on the home market. risk of any form of spills of hazardous substances. On the premises of HT • Incorporate energy efficiency criteria in the procurement process, there have been no spills of chemicals, oils, fuels or any other hazardous selection of suppliers and contractors and cooperate with suppliers substances that may cause harm to the environment and human health. to reduce the power consumption of devices and equipment that are In 2011, there were no procedures or penalties due to non-compliance purchased from them. with laws and regulations on environmental protection. • Support and participate in initiatives and programs of the EU, the Republic of Croatia, ETNO and DT aimed at increasing energy efficiency, ENERGY POLICY reducing greenhouse gases and preventing/slowing down global 7.14 In July 2007, the Management Board of HT adopted the HT Group warming and climate protection. Energy Policy. By this Policy, the HT Group demonstrates its commit• Comply with all local laws, regulations and standards relating to ment to caring for climate protection and slowing down global warming. this issue. The Energy Policy defines the approach to energy management and • Use internal and external communication to promote its ICT services establishes the basis for setting individual targets for the control of energy that have the potential for a positive impact on climate protection and consumption and greenhouse gas emissions. The purpose of activities the the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions, and to inform about its HT Group performs in accordance with this Policy is to achieve favourable activities in order to raise awareness among customers and employees ecological impacts by reducing greenhouse gas emissions and economic on these topics. effects by reducing the Company’s operating costs through optimizing the total consumption of all forms of energy used in daily operations, increasing energy efficiency and an increased use of renewable energy. 7.15 The adopted Energy Policy of the HT Group is the following: In carrying out activities aimed at optimizing the use of energy and reducing the effects of global warming, HT Group undertakes to adhere to the following principles: • Effectively monitor and measure the consumption of all types of energy (electricity, motor fuels, gas, heating oil) in order to identify areas of consumption where improvement is possible and to set specific targets for these improvements. 78 Impact on the environment / Indicators of the impact on the environment Indicators of the impact on the environment BUSINESS EFFICIENCY AS A FACTOR OF REDUCING ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT 7.16 Hrvatski Telekom is a service company, therefore does not use large amounts of material in its business operations. The most important material resource in HT is paper, mostly for purposes of offices, administration and production of telephone directories. We are committed to improving our performance in recycling paper as material, so that all office paper waste is collected separately and disposed with authorized recycling companies. Equally, we try to reduce the use of paper in business processes by modernizing office work by using modern technology. 7.17 Used material by weight or volume, in tons. 2008 2009 2010 2011 Total consumption of paper (t) 374 301 175 138 7.18 In the last four years, paper consumption has been reduced by more than and enabled on HT’s own network. Through them, HT reduces the customer 60%, which is the result of the numerous possibilities of e-business and the need for devices and equipment, thus contributing to the protection of the reduced need for printed telephone directories. environment. For example, a new unique service on the Croatian market is the tCloud Computer that allows customers to use virtual information infrastructure 7.19 In 2011, HT continued with the implementation of activities by which it seeks (virtual computers) and the procurement, delivery and maintenance of the accto contribute to reducing the use of materials by its customers, with a focus on ompanying hardware. HT is one of the first operators in Europe to offer this kind customer needs and advancement of e-business. For example, the e-invoice of service. service contributes to the protection of the environment thanks to reduced consumption of paper: millions of bills are printed in Croatia every month, while EFFICIENT USE OF ENERGY IN BUSINESS one tree which is 15-20 years old is used for the production of cellulose for only 7.21 Indicators of energy consumption include direct and indirect energy. The about 2000 paper bills! The number of users of HT’s e-bill service has doubled use of direct energy refers to the energy consumed by the organization and over the last year. its products and services. Indirect energy, however, is energy consumed by others who provide services to the organization. Direct energy consumption in 7.20 Following the new trend of development of technology in the field of service HT means consumption of gas and fuel oil for heating, diesel fuel for electrical development, in 2011 HT introduced a number of services “in the cloud” that generators and fuel for motor vehicles in the Company fleet. Indirect energy work on the principle of the so-called cloud computing. Services “in the cloud” consumption includes the consumption of electricity and thermal energy for are primarily aimed at business customers and have been centrally designed remote central heating. 7.22 Direct energy consumption by primary source of energy, in GJ 2008 2009 2010 2011 Total direct energy consumption (from non-renewable sources) 170,011 170,113 170,492 173,894 Natural gas 55,954 52,508 56,454 61,167 Fuel for the fleet petrol, diesel, LNG) 83,905 87,564 82,119 81,462 Other fuels (fuel oil, diesel for generators) 30,152 30,041 31,919 31,265 79 Impact on the environment / Indicators of the impact on the environment 7.23 Hrvatski Telekom does not produce or sell primary source energy. In terms 7.24 In order to rationalize energy consumption, the boilers using extra light fuel of non-renewable sources, Hrvatski Telekom directly uses mostly natural gas oil are replaced with ones fuelled by gas, which is more cost and energy-efficient and fuel for the fleet. The fleet of HT comprises of 218 LPG-powered cars, which and an environmentally friendly energy source. This energy source is introduced contribute to reducing CO2 emissions. In 2011, the fleet was renewed with new wherever possible, and is introduced in the new generation of boilers during vehicles with better CO2 emission/km factor. With an average age of vehicles construction and reconstruction. less than 4 years, HT continually strives to increase the safety of its employees in traffic and better indicators related to environmental protection. 7.25 Indirect energy consumption by primary source of energy, in GJ 2008 2009 2010 2011 Total indirect energy consumption 458,118 501,887 526,144 559,251 (from non-renewable energy sources) purchased electricity 421,045 467,104 486,191 522,720 thermal energy from heating plants 37,073 34,783 39,953 36,531 7.26 As an indirect energy source, Hrvatski Telekom uses electricity and thermal 7.31 In terms of the mobile network, HT started the evolution of the radio access energy from municipal central heating systems. In 2011, we spent a total of network: new multifunctional equipment is being installed which is more efficient 559,251 GJ of energy from non-renewable sources. in the implementation of new technologies and minimizes the need for adding new network elements, and in turn leads to a reduction in the consumption of electric7.27 Development of new services, the application of new technologies, increasing ity. Through the “Rationalization of electricity consumption in mobile networks of network capacity and other global trends in the ICT sector followed by HT inevitaHrvatski Telekom” project we have launched pilot initiatives for a more rational bly lead to a steady increase in the consumption of energy, especially electricity. use of energy: a new design of mobile sites (construction with only the external The data on electricity consumption indicate that it rises from year to year. Howbase station), a new generation of base stations that consume less electricity, as ever, a number of initiatives undertaken in HT and aimed at a more efficient and specified by the manufacturer, use of software solutions for optimized utilization rational consumption of electricity still slows down the growth of its consumption. of base stations in accordance with telecommunication data, etc. Energy efficient equipment also allows for the installation of more renewable energy sources, and 7.28 According to the latest available official data, the share of renewable energy helps to reduce the environmental impact by reducing direct energy consumption. in total electricity procured for 2010 is 45.6% (source: “Energy in Croatia Annual Energy Review”, Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship, 2010) 7.32 The environment in which each network had its individual services is transformed into a single multi-service platform. Integration of mobile, fixed and Internet 7.29 In terms of renewable energy sources in base mobile stations of the HT services significantly reduces the number of network devices and platforms, network, 11 wind-solar systems for electricity production have been installed, and thereby increasing the availability of space and optimization of cooling and air there are plans to build new ones, especially in locations where no power supply conditioning, which adds to the overall energy consumption and efficiency. is available from the public distribution system and in environmentally sensitive areas. HT does not measure the amount of energy produced in this manner, and 7.33 In addition to advanced telecommunications technologies, where HT follows uses it exclusively for its own purposes. the latest international trends in telecommunications, but also in environment protection, the so-called auxiliary systems are changing: air conditioning, lights, DC 7.30 A large number of technologies and technological solutions from the area power systems, etc. of mobile, fixed and Internet network represents an enormous challenge when it comes to electric power consumption and energy efficiency. In 2011, HT launched 7.34 Given that the building design and construction area, as one of the largest an energy efficiency project at corporate level, intended to achieve a synergistic consumers of energy, has significant potential for cost savings with a considerable effect of individual initiatives for energy efficiency that are already present in the positive effect on the environment, HT joined the initiative to improve the energy Company in certain business areas and a strategic approach to this field that has a efficiency of the sector and continuously conducts activities to optimize the space significant impact on the expenditure of the Company. In addition to the synergistic used for its own purposes. Furthermore, buildings and technological facilities of effect on the activities that are already underway, the project includes an analysis HT are renewed by applying technologies and solutions in the field of green buildof the planned and unrealized initiatives and the possibility of improving or expanding and energy efficiency. Additionally, HT boasts intelligent buildings in which ing initiatives due to consideration on a larger scale. The project includes initiatives the degree of automation of power management has been elevated to the highest at the strategic level and the ones in the areas of telecommunications technology, level, which allows for significant energy savings. property management and maintenance, heating and cooling technology and Company fleet, and focuses on achieving economic effects by reducing the Company’s costs thanks to increased efficiency and optimization of energy consumption. The first measurable effects of initiatives are expected in the current year. 80 Impact on the environment / Indicators of the impact on the environment CARE FOR WATERS 7.35 Hrvatski Telekom uses water from the public water supply network as a utility service, for drinking, sanitary purposes, air conditioning systems and fire fighting systems. Water is not used for technological purposes. 7.36 Total water withdrawal by source, in thousands of litres 2008 2009 2010 2011 Total water consumption 119,782 101,482 88,008 79,250 7.37 Hrvatski Telekom responsibly and continuously takes care of reducing water consumption which has been reduced by more than 33% over the last four years. This is the result of good environmental awareness of employees, optimization of business space, fast fault recovery, preventive maintenance and the performed reconstruction of heating/cooling and plumbing system. RATIONALIZATION OF EMISSIONS, WASTE WATER AND WASTE 7.38 Total direct and indirect emissions of greenhouse gases by weight have been calculated according to the GHG Protocol. 7.39 Total direct and indirect emissions of greenhouse gases by weight, in tons of CO2 2008 2009 2010 2011 Total greenhouse gas emissions (direct and indirect emissions) 52,033 55,444 58,476 60,322 total direct emission of CO2 (from non-renewable sources) 11,167 11,055 11,356 10,860 natural gas 2,711 2,544 2,770 2,964 fuel for the fleet (petrol, diesel, LNG) 6,051 6,115 6,041 5,632 fuel oil 2,404 2,395 2,545 2,264 total indirect emission of CO2 40,866 44,389 47,120 49,462 7.40 The above presented data on electricity consumption indicate that it rises by those resulting from business travel in the country and abroad. Exact data on from year to year, as well as the related greenhouse gas emissions. The increase the distance travelled by public transportation is not available and is not followed; in total greenhouse gas emissions in 2011 of only 3.2% compared to the previous however, the total number of official trips abroad, with the most used means of year despite the growing number of services and network capacity is definitely the transport being planes/trains/cars (taxi in the destination city) was reduced by result of the energy initiatives started within the HT. 17% in 2011. Travel by official vehicles from the Company’s fleet are included in the direct emissions of greenhouse gases and shown in the table above. 7.41 Also, direct emissions show a rise in the percentage of environmentally friendly fuels (natural gas) and a decrease in the amount of emissions from the 7.44 A strongly increased use of teleand video-conferencing reduced the need use of fuel oil. Emissions from the use of fuel in the Company fleet are constantly for official travel in the Company both locally and on greater distances. In 2011, decreasing as a result of fleet renewal (new vehicles with a better CO2/km emisHT also organized a campaign to encourage greater use of bicycles as a means of sion factor, the average age of vehicles is less than 4 years). Using the Telargo transport for our employees. IT fleet management system enables the optimization of the use of means of transport by reducing fuel consumption. 7.45 Hrvatski Telekom is not a production company and does not emit substances that deplete the ozone layer from its production processes. 7.42 Additionally, by introducing state-of-the-art ICT technologies, HT reduces its own carbon footprint, and has developed and offers to its customers many 7.46 However, in its operations, for the purposes of maintaining the necessary products and services that allow them to do the same. Most of these products and climatic conditions in its technological and other business premises, HT uses services allow the replacement of traditional physical products with electronic cooling and air-conditioning systems that operate on substances that affect the ones, reduce the need to travel, etc. and thus save non-renewable resources and ozone layer. Maintenance of these devices and systems is entrusted to authorized energy and help reduce the emission of greenhouse gases, especially carbon contractors whose duty, among other things, is to dispose of replaced refrigerant dioxide (CO2) into the air. in an environmentally friendly way. In 2011, there was no discharge of refrigerant from the devices owned by HT into the air. Continuing the activities related to 7.43 HT does not keep records on the amount of emissions into the air from the withdrawal of equipment containing chlorine hydro fluorocarbons from use, Scope 3 of the GHG Protocol, but in HT, these types of emissions are represented in 2011 HT disposed of more than 4 tons of such devices in an environmentally 81 Impact on the environment / Indicators of the impact on the environment friendly way. 2011 saw the implementation of a part of activities intended to ions. In 2011, the cost for emission measurement amounted to HRK 17,061.00 replace systems that use refrigerant chlorodifluoromethane (commonly known as and the cost of fees for emissions into the air was HRK 48,515.78. freon R22). HT plans to stop using any equipment that contains this refrigerant by the legally prescribed deadline (2015). 7.48 The amount of emissions into the air is determined directly from measurements or indirectly from the calculation based on fuel consumption. 7.47 For heating its business premises, HT uses boilers that run on natural gas and fuel oil, and is therefore subject to measurement and reporting of its emiss7.49 Boiler rooms are equipped with an automatic control which adjusts the ions into air, as well as to paying fees for these emissions. The enforcement of this parameters of consumption and contributes to the efficient use of resources and legal obligation causes a cost to the Company relating to the cost for the services lower environmental emissions. Regular maintenance of boiler rooms is the basis of measuring emissions in two-year cycles and the annual cost for fees for emissfor reducing emissions into the environment. 7.50 NOx, SOx and other significant emissions into air by type and weight* (tons) 2008 2009 2010 2011 Total emission NO2 2.36 2.26 2.36 6.12 Total emission SO2 6.22 6.87 7.58 7.13 * for boilers with power over 100 kW 7.51 Due to the nature of its activities, Hrvatski Telekom produces no waste 7.53 Hrvatski Telekom responsibly disposes of its waste from all of its business water associated with power plants. HT uses water from the water supply netprocesses, according to law, by-laws and its own procedures. Waste prevenwork, for drinking and sanitation purposes and in specific business processes tion, reducing it to a minimum, separate collection and proper disposal are (fire extinguishing systems, air conditioning). Reducing water consumption is everyday activities in the field of waste management in the Company. reflected in the reduced discharge of waste water. 7.54 All the waste is sorted, collected in separate containers and delivered for 7.52 Hot water can be discharged only in sewage outfalls. It is important to further care to authorized collectors companies and state concessionaires. note that none of the business processes of HT represent a danger of pollution of watercourses. Where there is a risk of oil spills into the sewer (underground garages in two business properties), we apply appropriate technical means (oil separators and grease filters). 7.55 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method, in tons. 2008 2009 2010 2011 Total weight of waste 726 1,304 1,295 1,185 Hazardous waste 186 393 494 418 Non-hazardous waste 540 911 801 767 Waste recycled % 57 60 61 75 7.56 The share of recycled waste depends on the category and type of waste 7.57 Hrvatski Telekom keeps record of waste submitted for disposal by properly and is calculated based on the available data from the certified accompanying keeping the documentation prescribed by law (Records of the generation and documentation on the method of recycling (R) or disposing (D) applied by an flow of waste, accompanying documents for hazardous/non-hazardous/inert individual authorized recovery operator/disposer. For example, in 2011, all subwaste). For this purpose we created a special computer program, which records mitted telecommunications equipment, fluorescent tubes, air conditioning equithe generation and flow of waste that we started using during 2011. Data on the pment, lead acid batteries, all kinds of metals, alkaline batteries, cable guides, weight of the waste submitted for disposal is obtained by weighing the waste toner cartridges for printers, paper and cardboard packaging were 100% recycled. when submitting it to authorized collectors and is used for reporting to relevant Other categories of submitted waste (concrete, plastic, plastic packaging, timber, state authorities. bulk waste mainly furniture) were recycled in smaller percentages, depending on the recovery operator/disposer. 82 Impact on the environment / Indicators of the impact on the environment 7.58 The largest waste in HT is industrial waste generated in the processes of 7.60 Dismantled telecommunications equipment from the technology migration improvement, restoration and reconstruction of parts of the telecommunications process represents electronic waste that is mostly categorized as hazardous network and IT systems, their maintenance during the termination of some netas well as a major part of the annual amount of hazardous waste submitted for work platforms and technological units, when dismantling produces certain disposal to the state concessionaire for managing waste from electrical and amounts of redundant IT and telecommunications equipment and other material electronic equipment. This fact is one of the main reasons why HT has a high resources. A part of this equipment can be reused within HT (for its original proportion of hazardous waste from the total amount of waste produced. purpose or for spare parts), sold or donated to charity, and some obsolete, unnecessary or damaged telecommunications and IT equipment and other material 7.61 Under Croatian law, Hrvatski Telekom allows customers to return used assets is declared waste (mainly electrical and electronic waste). mobile phones and their batteries to all its stores. Through various campaigns encouraging ecological disposal of used mobile devices, which HT has been 7.59 IMS (IP Multimedia SubSystem) and PSTN (Public Switched Telephone Netorganizing since 2005 with an excellent customer response, so far we have colwork) migration of fixed network represent a radical change of the telecommunilected and disposed of more than 111,000 used mobile devices. cations network of Hrvatski Telekom. The basic platform is completely changed for the purposes of developing new multimedia and customer-oriented services 7.62 Business activities of HT do not cause any significant spills that could based on IP technology. Accordingly, after 20 30 years of use, digital telephone damage the soil, water, air, biodiversity and human health. Hot water can be switchboards are replaced by new, IP-based technologies, both on the control discharged only in sewage outfalls. Where there is a risk of oil spills into the and access level of the network. We began with the replacement of technologies, sewer (underground garages in two business properties), we apply appropriate which will be done gradually and over a long period of time and which already technical means (oil separators and grease filters). causes the formation of significant amounts of electrical and electronic waste. This trend will continue in the future until the final replacement of these systems. 83 Impact on the environment / Biodiversity 84 Impact on the environment / Biodiversity Biodiversity 7.63 The facilities of Hrvatski Telekom in locations owned, leased, or mana7.66 The business processes of Hrvatski Telekom have only indirect and ged within protected areas or in their immediate vicinity and on areas of insignificant impact on biodiversity. The Company’s greater potential lies high value in terms of biodiversity outside protected areas have little or in the protection of biodiversity through sustained action in the area of negligible impact on biodiversity. climate protection (use of energy-efficient equipment and devices, offering services that help reduce the impact on the environment for the customer, 7.64 When setting up base stations of mobile networks in protected parts sponsoring environmental activities reforestation of burned areas, conserof the nature, HT works closely with the Ministry of Environment and vation of habitats of endangered species, etc.). Nature (formerly the Ministry of Culture, which was the relevant authority for protection of nature), the Ministry of Physical Planning and Construction, 7.67 Protecting the environment is a priority in our business, so we remain the local community, managements of protected areas, mobile operators committed to further improving the practices and processes that we use in and other relevant stakeholders, where necessary. our operations. Also, during the reporting period there were no significant misdemeanour or criminal cases. 7.65 Additionally, HT and other mobile operators, members of the Mobile Communication Association of Croatia (UPKH) have started the initiative of minimizing the number of actions taken within the landscape while building basic mobile network stations. The Ministry of Environmental Protection, Physical Planning and Construction has also supported this initiative and thus today mobile operators are building joint locations. Such activities minimize the mobile networks’ impact on the landscape, especially in the protected parts of nature. 85 Artist: Damir Bartol Indoš Art piece: Manhole phone T-HTnagrada@msu.hr competition, 2012 Key indicators and objectives Key indicators and objectives / Key indicators and objectives Key indicators and objectives 8.1 Together with Deutsche Telekom, HT works on the implementation of key performance indicators (KPI), which apply to all companies operating within the DT Group. Performance indicators are used for transparent and effective monitoring of the progress achieved in the following areas: employee satisfaction, socially responsible investment and sustainable procurement. Also, on a national level it monitors progress in terms of reducing CO2 emissions and energy consumption. 8.2 For more information on performance indicators, go to http://www.cr-report.telekom.com/site11/en/strategie-und-management/cr-strategie/key-performance-indikatoren/index.php#ff,43327 OBJECTIVES FOR THE NEXT REPORTING PERIOD 3. Sustainable investment in the community 8.3 In addition to continuing to work on improving the performance indicators, Investing in resources to support initiatives and partnerships with local commuwe have identified four groups of activities that will be given special attention in nities. Directing action toward building a transparent system of interaction with the next period. We will report on the progress made in these areas in the next local communities, with the option of performance evaluation. Encouraging an sustainability report. All activities are aligned with the areas of CSR Strategy, as active exchange of opinions with the aim of supporting and developing partnerwell as with existing monitoring indicators of sustainable business of DT Group. ships with local communities, with the synergistic use of innovation and best practice. Investments do not necessarily need to be direct, but should be in 1. E-societyencouraging networking accordance with the basic settings of the Company’s sustainability strategy, longDirected activities, focused towards expanding access to different forms and term and implemented with the full consideration of the opinions of stakeholders. channels of electronic communication. Investment in the networking and exchange of ideas and opinions, along with encouraging dialogue, is one of the ways Operational activity and indicator: Directing donor funds for projects planned in of increasing the capacity of society as a whole. accordance with a predetermined donation strategy and areas of activity. Support projects that have lasting, sustainable values and include a greater number Operational activity and indicators: Internet access on a national level, accessibilof participants. Regular surveys on the reputation of the Company in the area of ity of services on a national level. social responsibility with stakeholders. 2. Protection of the environment reduced emission of CO2 4. Improving sustainable partnerships with suppliers Reducing the impact on the environment is one of the cornerstones of the ComApplication of defined principles for the establishment of sustainable partnerpany’s sustainability strategy. Priority area: combating climate change and global ships of the defined “expectations” from suppliers in specific areas. Although warming by the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions. This especially applies the existence of some aspects, such as respect for human rights, is expected, to CO2 as a gas with the most damaging long-term impact on the environment. it is not a sufficiently prominent part of business communication with suppliers. Additional efforts to reduce CO2 emissions, in terms of the consequences of Establishing clear principles of exchange of information with suppliers in order business activity, and reduce the “carbon footprint”. to encourage excellence and unambiguously show to stakeholders that in the field of cooperation with suppliers the Company integrates elements of social Operational activity and indicator: percentage reduction in CO2 emissions at the responsibility in its business. level of HT compared to the previous reporting period. Operational activity and indicators: development of attitudes or principles of the Company in key segments of corporate social responsibility, such as “human rights charter”, “fighting discrimination”, which can form a part of the contracting procedure. 87 Key indicators and objectives / Key indicators and objectives 88
