SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 ISAE 3000 International Standard ›› Disclose credible information about strategy, issues, and on Assurance Engagements performance to stakeholders. The purpose of this International Standard on Assurance Adherence to the AA1000APS principles, which have been Engagements (ISAE) is to establish basic principles and essential developed using a multi-stakeholder consultation process, enables procedures for, and to provide guidance to, professional the development of a sustainable business model and strategy. The accountants in public practice (for purposes of this ISAE referred to principles have been used by leading companies since 2008 and are as “practitioners”) for the performance of assurance engagements compatible with other sets of principles in the marketplace, such as other than audits or reviews of historical financial information. the UN Global Compact, GRI and ISO 26000. AA1000 AccountAbility Principles Standard (2008) GRI – Global Reporting Initiative The APS principles are based on the premise that an accountable Declaring an Application Level results in a clear communication organisation will take action to: about which elements of the GRI Reporting Framework have been applied in the preparation of a report. To meet the needs of new ›› Establish a strategy based on a comprehensive determination beginners, advanced reporters, and those somewhere in between, of all issues that are material to the organisation and its there are three levels in the system. They are titled C, B, and A, stakeholder; The reporting criteria found in each level reflects an increasing application or coverage of the GRI Reporting Framework. An ›› Establish goals and standards against which the organisation’s organization can self-declare a “plus” (+) at each level (ex., C+, strategy and performance can be judged; B+, A+) if they have utilized external assurance. 1 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 INDEX 001 Presentation pág. 03 Brisa in 2010 04 Summary of indicators 06 Chairman’s Statement 08 SUSTAINABILITY Vision and Strategy 10 Dialogue with Stakeholders 11 The Brisa Group 15 REPORT Corporate Governance 22 2010 002 Vectors of Sustainability pág. 31 Sustainable Mobility 32 The Environment 39 Human Resources 46 Social Development 51 Innovation and Quality 54 003 GRI Indicators pág. 59 004 Validation pág. 89 OTHER Response to INDEX GRI PUBLICATIONS UN GLOBAL COMPACT 2 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 REPORT PROFILE THE AIM OF PUBLISHING BRISA’S SUSTAINABILITY Besides these information systems, documents specifically prepared by different departments were used for the Sustainability Report, REPORT IS TO PROVIDE ITS SHAREHOLDERS, as well as information used by Brisa to answer inquiries by third ANALYSTS AND CUSTOMERS WITH INFORMATION parties and information arising from the company’s relations with ON THE COMPANY’S PERFORMANCE FROM THE other stakeholders. The Chairman’s Statement is the same as that published in the Financial Statement. PERSPECTIVE OF SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT. The reported information – whether resulting from measurements, This is Brisa – Auto-estradas de Portugal, S.A.’s eighth Sustainability calculations or estimates was checked by an external entity, Report. It describes the main activities and relevant data, as well as in accordance with the checking report found at the end of this giving the main indicators of the Brisa Group for the period from document. 1 January to 31 December 2010, including references to actions under way or programmed for 2011 whenever applicable. The Sustainability Report was prepared by the Department for Investors, Communication and Sustainability with the support of The Sustainability Report completes the set of reports published by Brisa’s functional and operational departments, together with input Brisa relating to 2010, including the Annual Report and Accounts from its affiliates. and the Corporate Governance Report. These are all available on the websites www.brisa.pt and www.cmvm.pt. Complementary information, additional clarifications or suggestions Annual about this report may be obtained from: Report 2010 The Sustainability Report describes the activities and performance of Brisa – Auto Estradas de Portugal S.A., referred to hereinafter as Luís d’Eça Pinheiro (lepinheiro@brisa.pt) Brisa Group or Brisa. Brisa’s corporate universe is explained below Director of Investor Relations, Communication and Sustainability in the subchapter Brisa Group, from page 15 to page 20 of this report. Franco Caruso (franco.caruso@brisa.pt) Communication and Sustainability Department The scope of indicators referred to in this Report corresponds to the Brisa Group, consisting of the companies in which it controls The policies, procedures, criteria, internal guidelines or any other the management, i.e. in which it holds over 50% of the respective initiatives described in this report cannot be considered obligations share capital: Brisa – Auto-estradas de Portugal, Brisa Concessão of the company and, per se, are not a basis for claims for rights Rodoviária (BCR), Brisal – Auto-Estradas do Litoral Centro, AEA by third parties. Brisa may, within its legal and legitimate rights, – Auto-Estradas do Atlântico (50% consolidated), Northwest modify, revise or even repeal strategies, procedures, criteria Parkway (NWPY), Brisa Operação e Manutenção (BO&M), Brisa and internal guidelines, when and under the terms it considers Engenharia e Gestão (BEG),Via Verde Portugal (VV), Brisa Inovação appropriate and timely. e Tecnologia (BIT), Mcall, and Controlauto (CTA). Brisa’s Sustainability Report was prepared in accordance with the When the scope of an indicator is different from that described G3 or third generation of guidelines for sustainability reports of the above, it is explicitly pointed out in the respective note in the GRI Global Reporting Initiative, and was rated GRI A+ by the checking Table. agency KPMG & Associados, SROCs. The content of this report was produced using the Management Dialogue with stakeholders, developed in the chapter Presentation, Information System on Sustainability (see box), which complements on pages 12, 13 and 14, followed the principles described in the Management Information System that prepares the financial standard AA1000APS (2008). information for the Reports and Accounts. Support of the Sustainability Report The reporting of sustainability at Brisa has undergone a process of decisive step towards a new standard of precision and utility of the constant improvement in terms of its respective content, processes information gathered and processed, geared more closely towards and operational application. the GRI performance indicators. Ensuring reliability, the comprehensive scope and materiality of The platform is a computer system specially dedicated to the data reported has been a constant priority for Brisa so as to management information on sustainability and adjusted to the construct a Management Information System on Sustainability specific needs of the organization. The information is collected capable of effectively supporting management in its operational company-wide according to a pre-established calendar, on a and strategic planning. quarterly half-yearly or annual basis. The validation flow guarantees the quality of the monitoring and information processing is In 2010, in adopting the BWIse computer platform, Brisa took a facilitated by made-to-measure solutions. 3 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 • 01 PRESENTATION 001 PRESENTATION 4 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 • 01 PRESENTATION BRISA IN 2010 • Sponsorship of and participation in the 16th World Road Meeting • Most Family Responsible Company Award • Brisa Inovação and Universities • Presentation of Brisa Inovação Partnerships e Tecnologia (BIT) • Brisa receives first national • TIIC joined a motorway patent concession in Poland • Participation in ASECAP’s • Brisa Operação e Manutenção annual encounter (May/June) (BO&M) was set up INSTITUtIONAL • Presentation of BIT’s academic • Sale of part of the publications holding in CCR • Brisa changed positioning in • Ascendi buys Via Verde the FTSE4Good index stock January February March April May June OPERAtIONAL • Landslip and temporary • Total reopening of the interruption to traffic CREL on the CREL (Lisbon Regional Ring Round) • Start-up of the Via Manual project 5 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 • 01 PRESENTATION • Conclusion of the sale process of the holding in CCR • Conclusion of the Corporate Reorganization • Payment of donations to the “Show Solidarity” project • Sponsorship of and participation in the Greenfest • Award of the Natural • Shareholding in Infovalor Engineering prize • Start-up of Via Verde sale • Launch of the publication “Business Development, Challenges & Opportunities in a Rapidly Changing World” by WBCSD • Investors Day JULY August September October November December • Conclusion of road widening of the A2 Coina/Palmela/Setúbal • Start of road works to • Start of toll payments at widen the A3 at Maia/ SCUTS (formerly toll-free SantoTirso roads) • Road improvement • Conclusion of the widening of works on the Costa the Estarreja/Feira sub-stretch da Caparica Fast Lane on the A1 (Baixo Tejo Concession) • Operational start-up of • Conclusion of the the Via Manual system implementation of the Via Manual System 6 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 • 01 PRESENTATION SUMMARY OF INDICATORS ECONOMIC INDICATORS Million Euros 2008 2009 2010 Investment in motorways 207 110 122 operating costs 409.5 454.1 199.9 staff costs 93.3 95.1 100.9 net income 151.8 161.0 758.9 Enviromental Investment 15.5 18.5 11.4 Prevention and environmental management costs 2.3 5.6 1.5 Waste disposal. emissions treatment. and remediation costs 13.2 12.9 9.9 R & D Investment 5.2 6.0 4.9 Research Na* 0.5 0.6 Development Na* 5.5 4.3 Investment in Local Communities 1.4 1.3 0.8 Donations 0.2 0.2 0.3 Public Service 1.3 1.1 0.5 * Data not available due to changes in the indicator. Investment Operating Net in Motorways (M€) Costs (M€) Income (M€) 207 110 122 409.5 454.1 199.9 151.8 161.0 758.9 250 500 800 200 400 600 150 300 400 100 200 200 50 100 0 2008 2009 2010 2008 2009 2010 2008 2009 2010 Environmental R&D Investment in Investment (M€) Investment (M€) Local Communities (M€) 15.5 18.5 11.4 5.2 6.0 4.9 1.4 1.3 0.8 20 6,0 2,0 15 5,5 1,5 10 5,0 1,0 5 4,5 0,5 0 4,0 0 2008 2009 2010 2008 2009 2010 2008 2009 2010 7 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 • 01 PRESENTATION ENVIRONMENTAL INDICATORS 2008 2009 2010 Energy Consumption [GJ] Electricity consumption [GJ] 132,863 142,340 126,780 Water Consumption [m3] 292,607 236,776 186,544 132,863 142,340 126,780 105,643 98,891 101,671 Public Supply 152,153 117,485 111,056 150 000 Own collections 121,372 119,291 75,488 125 000 Fuel consumption [GJ] 105,643 98,891 101,671 100 000 Gas 1,975 1,208 513 75 000 Diesel 103,668 97,683 101,158 50 000 GHG Emissions [tCO2eq] 21,962 23,809 18,443 25 000 Direct emissions 7,955 7,449 7,660 0 Indirect emissions 14,007 16,360 11,381 2008 2009 2010 Waste [t] 1,771 973 1,832 Electricity Fuel Water Consumption [m3] GHG Emissions [tCO2eq] Waste [t] 292,607 236,776 186,544 21,962 23,809 18,443 1,771 973 1,832 300 000 30 000 3 000 250 000 25 000 2 500 200 000 20 000 2 000 150 000 15 000 1 500 100 000 10 000 1 000 50 000 5 000 500 0 0 0 2008 2009 2010 2008 2009 2010 2008 2009 2010 Own collections Public Supply Indirect Direct SOCIAL INDICATORS 2008 2009 2010 Average Hours of Training Turnover rate 8.8% 7.8% 10.4% Average hours of training per employee 16 16 20 16 16 20 Rate of Absenteeism 4.2% 3.5% 5.0% 20 Days lost 2,572 11,805 17,000 Frequency rate 13.86 17.00 21.62 15 Gravity rate 548.51 1,920.00 3.83 Incidence rate 0.02 0.04 0.04 10 Duration rate 40.00 112.00 177.08 2008 2009 2010 8 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 • 01 PRESENTATION 9 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 • 01 PRESENTATION Chairman’s Statement 2010 was a year of significant achievements and very important The contract for the Poceirão-Caia high speed train concession as far as Brisa is concerned. Naturally, the Group was affected by entered by the ELOS consortium and the Portuguese State, the hard and adverse macro economic situation which Portugal is involving the construction of 167 km of high speed railway and an facing. However, the deep changes that it has carried through will investment of 1.5 billion euros, marks Brisa’s transformation from a spur its competitiveness, solidity and growth. road operator into a global transport infrastructures operator. Economic hardship The selling of the stake in CCR Companhia de Concessões Rodoviárias concluded on 15 December was a key turning point in Business activity was hurt by a number of external factors, with the Group’s international positioning. After ten years of successful instability in international financial markets and deterioration of operation in association with local partners, Brisa decided to leave sovereign debt playing a central role. At financial level and in terms Brazil, as it could not increase its minority holding. The operation of stock market performance, we saw an excessive correlation brought in proceeds over e 1.2 billion and will allow Brisa to between the rise in Portugal’s sovereign risk and Brisa’s stock replicate the model followed in Brazil in other geographies. performance. Having analysed existing opportunities, we selected India and In economic terms, we experienced the stepping up of direct and Turkey as priority markets for our international activity. The settingindirect taxes and the climbing of raw-material prices. These factors up of the Feedback Brisa Highways joint-venture in India in late combined with the resurgence of inflation and rising financing November attests for the strength of this new phase of international costs shrunk household disposable income. This inevitably affected expansion. traffic on Brisa’s motorway network, which fell by 3% in 2010. Part of this drop, however, derives from the impact of competition of the Still with regard to the management of our interests, it is worth former (toll-free) SCUTS in the first nine months of the year. mentioning the dialogue which Brisa kept with the State, viewing to conform Brisal and Douro Litoral to the availability fee model of Improving operational efficiency the state-owned company EP-Estradas de Portugal. The biggest changes were made at operation level. The search for Conclusion of the Corporate increased efficiency in processes and systems gave rise to a new toll payment system Via Manual. The most visible aspect of this Reorganization system is the semi-automatic toll payment machine, which allows drivers to use any payment means they want. This project will bring The greatest transformation, however, was the one resulting from greater efficiency to toll collection, with considerable gains. the corporate reorganization of the Brisa Group, the core aspect of which was the transfer of Brisa Concession, including assets and The introduction of toll collection in SCUT roads in the north of liabilities, to a new company BCR Brisa Concessão Rodoviária. This the country was another relevant event contributing to our restructuring, started following the revision of Brisa’s concession operational efficiency. The adoption of electronic toll collection in contract in December 2008, also involved the segregation of these motorways resulted in a significant rise in the number of Via business areas, the integration of existing competences in new Verde subscribers and total transactions, with a positive impact associates and the redistribution of our human resources, which on the costs per transaction borne by concessionaires. Via Verde is are the backbone of the Group. now present in three other motorways, which all in all cover 173 km of tolls. The introduction of tolls in four other SCUTs scheduled The new corporate structure marks a new phase in Brisa’s history, for 2011 should double the number of Via Verde transactions, in particular for its implications in the Group’s financial structure. bolstering Via Verde leading role in electronic toll collection. The reorganization bolstered Brisa’s financial solidity and ratings, improved asset management efficiency and provided cash flow All the while, Brisa continued working on improving energy, water visibility, based on sustained growth and a stable shareholder and fuel consumption and CO2 emissions. To this end, it created remuneration policy, which should be of at least e 0.31 cents per the Brisa Eco-efficiency index to measure the rationality and the share for the next five years. impacts of our operation. In addition to being an efficiency and risk management tool of crucial importance for the Group, this index Brisa has thus entered 2011 equipped with a new corporate will be used to gauge Brisa’s performance in the different aspects structure, financially more solid, operationally more efficient and of environmental management. with added development potential. We believe to have established the bases for a stable dividend and growth-driven policy. Dynamic portfolio management On par with the search for more efficient processes and solutions, the Group continued to develop its growth strategy with considerable success. 10 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 • 01 PRESENTATION VISION AND STRATEGY IN THE FIRST DECADE OF THIS CENTURY, BRISA to the promotion of mobility and accessibility at an inter-urban, inter-regional and international level, with important economic and ACCEPTED THE CHALLENGE OF SUSTAINABILITY, social benefits to communities and the activities it serves. INTEGRATING THE SOCIAL AND ENVIRONMENTAL DIMENSIONS IN ITS STRATEGY, IN ADDITION TO That is why the company uses, as its corporate motto, the condition of “Partner for Development f Portugal”, which extends to all THE ECONOMIC DIMENSION OF BUSINESS. THE markets where it is established and active, either as an infrastructure COMPANY HAS SINCE THEN DEFINED, FOR ITS concessionaire or as a provider of mobility services. BUSINESS, SUSTAINABILITY AS THE SEARCH FOR Since 2002, Brisa has been recognized by third parties as a reference SIMULTANEOUS GROWTH WITH PROFIT, SOCIAL in the field of sustainability, either through the integration in PROGRESS AND ENVIRONMENTAL QUALITY, ethical indexes such as FTSE4Good, the performance in rankings, SUPPORTED IN THE CONTINUOUS IMPROVEMENT OF such as the assignment of the Award of Excellence for Sustainable Development, awarded by Heidrick & Struggles and the Diário PROCEDURES IN THE MANAGEMENT OF RISKS AND Económico, and via other benchmarks (SAM, Sustainalytics, Vigeo, INNOVATION, WITH THE OBJECTIVE OF CREATING Carbon Disclosure Project, amongst others) or by the numerous VALUE FOR ALL STAKEHOLDERS. instances of stakeholdersdialogue. At the same time, Brisa worked to incorporate the theme of Brisa is positioned as a leader in the transport infrastructure sustainability into their mission and values, particularly by sector, with a special focus on toll roads, both domestically identifying five fundamental areas Road Safety, Environment, and internationally, and on railway infrastructure and airports, Social Development, Human Resources and Innovation and Quality specifically in the domestic market. and the key stakeholders. In almost 40 years of activity, the company played a decisive role As demonstrated in this report, besides this positioning exercise, in the financing, design, construction and operation of a motorway the company has been developing policies, tools and processes network, which is the backbone of the Portuguese road system. required to translate these values into concrete actions that are part This experience helped create a corporate culture based on the of current activities of business, and which are incorporated into values of Ethics, Innovation and Excellence and strongly devoted the company culture and individual objectives of the employees. 11 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 • 01 PRESENTATION DIALOGUE WITH STAKEHOLDERS STAKEHOLDERS HAVE LEGITIMATE EXPECTATIONS Based on the exhaustive identification of each stakeholder’s expectations, the critical topics for the organization’s success and THAT DEFINE THE MATERIAL ISSUES FOR BRISA. that of the society it operates in, or rather, the material topics for IDENTIFYING THE CRITICAL TOPICS AND BUILDING Brisa, were defined. A POSITIVE RELATIONSHIP WITH ALL STAKEHOLDERS The response to each material topic produced a set of lines of REQUIRES INCREASINGLY SENSITIVE SCRUTINY action reflected in the steps taken by the company in 2010. MECHANISMS. The 5 vectors of sustainability, identified in the Vision and Strategy, reflect the material issues and are the leit motiv of the next chapter. The most important stakeholders were identified using two criteria: the stakeholder’s impact on Brisa and Brisa’s impact on the stakeholder. COURSES OF ACTION CHAPTER MATERIAL TOPICS COURSES OF ACTION Safety First Programme Road Safety Investment in Infrastructure Monitoring of Road Accidents Customer Information Sustainable Mobility Payment Systems Customer Service Vehicle Inspection Via Verde on SCUT Operational Coordination Centre Active Traffic Management Headway Project Environmental Management System Eco-efficiency and Eco-efficiency indicator Environmental Management Environmental objectives 2010-2012 Biodiversity Brisa Biodiversity Programme Environment M4D Project Eco-Driving Project Portugal Climate change NWPY Solar Project Holland Project Masters and other studies Irregularities Notification Channel Ethics and Transparency Code of Ethics Talent Management Performance Management System Human Resources People are Important Project Corporate culture Staff Reception and Integration Programme Development of Competences Health and Safety Safe Tolls Project Stakeholders engagement Social Programme Impact of the Investments in AE Positive external factors Evolutionary trend of traffic Social Development Nova Via Manual Project Show Solidarity Contribution of the Employees Learn to be an Entrepreneur New Services Via Manual Project Innovation and Quality Ecossistema de Inovação COTEC Certification Triple Certification 12 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 • 01 PRESENTATION STANDARD AA1000 APS In 2009 Brisa began preparations to implement Standard AA1000, This diagnosis, which involved the different areas of the Corporate through diagnosis of compliance with the principles of this Centre, the concessions and the various business units, was standard. structured into 3 stages that address the Principles of Standard AA1000 APs: StakeHOLDER AUSCULTATION (PHase 1) EXPECTATIONS (PHase 2) ›› Investor Relations Department ›› Value creation SHAREHOLDERS ›› Annual studies of the sector ›› Transparent and rigorous information ›› Roadshows / Feedback reports ›› Employee website and Quality website ›› Irregularities Disclosure Channel and Ethical Ombudsman ›› Periodical meetings with the Labour Comission ›› Regular meetings with Quality and Sustainability ›› Employment stability EMPLOYEES Managers ›› Professional progression perspectives ›› Follow up of management systems ›› Training evaluation questionnaire ›› Internal Quality Auditing Satisfaction Questionnaire ›› Active Improvement Opportunities System ›› Customer satisfaction studies MI CARE ›› Customer satisfaction evaluation follow-up regarding Road Assistance, Blue Number and Stores ›› Mistery Client present at widening works and in Service ›› Safety, comfort and traffic fluidity Areas ›› Quality of the infrastructure and service CUSTOMERS ›› Food Quality and Hygiene Evaluation at the Service Areas provided, necessity of perceived value ›› Client questionnaires ›› Accessible and transparent contact ›› Available communication channels: websites, blue number and stores ›› Complaints Management System ›› Active management of the Concession Agreement REGULATOR ›› Compliance Concession Agreement ›› Formal and informal meetings PUBLIC ›› Agreement requisites follow-up ›› Compliance Concession Agreement ADMINISTRATION ›› Maintain constant contact ›› Union proposals and negotiation processes ›› Compliance with agreements and protocols ›› Periodical meetings (monthly or quarterly) PARTNERS ›› Opportunity creation and active ›› Comissions (when necessary) collaboration on initiatives ›› Construction/work Contract Management ›› Consult financial entities FINANCIAL ›› Negotiat processes ›› Value creation MARKETS ›› Daily follow-up through meetings ›› Transparent and rigorous information ›› Research reports analysis ›› Contract negotiation process and meetings SUPPLIERS ›› Transparencey and rigour ›› Follow-up meetings ›› Detailed analysis of Brisa’s competition COMPETITORS ›› Benchmark study of economic-financial performance LOCAL ›› Public consultation process, at an environmental impact ›› Contribute to local development COMMUNITIES study level ›› Mobility and accesibility solutionsV ›› Perform annual questionnaires PUBLIC OPINION ›› Perform perception studies on the journalists ›› Transparent and rigorous information ›› News monitorization and quarterly evaluations 13 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 • 01 PRESENTATION STAGE 1 – Principle of Inclusion. Listening to and STAGE 3 Principle of Response. Actions, initiatives and involvementwith the different groups of stakeholders. procedures that provide the response to the needs as identified. STAGE 2 – Principle of Materiality. Identification of stakeholders’ expectations, concerns and needs. RESPONSE (PHase 3) MATERIAL THEMES ›› Strategies to increase share value ›› Regular information through available channels: ›› Ethic and Transparency ›› AR and SR ›› Eco-efficiency and Operational Management ›› Brisa website, e-mail and telephone ›› Specific meetings and events, such as Investors’ Day and General Assembly ›› People management processes, such as: ›› Performance Management ›› Career management ›› Tallent Management ›› Compensations ›› Health and Safety ›› Training ›› Culture ›› Comunication channels ›› *see channels referred in “Key Factors” ›› At operational level: ›› New equipment, systems and road safety procedures ›› Management of pavements and engineering works ›› Patrol and assistance service ›› Working Goup for Widening Works, Working Group for Crises Management and Communication ›› Information available: ›› Road Safety ›› Complaints Management System ›› Active Traffic Management ›› Multichannel information on motorway circulation (Brisa information channels, Brisa Reporter, Radios, ›› Customer Service Press Releases, brochures, amongst others) ›› Information Stands, Stores and Service Stations ›› Blue Line Assistance and Information ›› Assistance and Communication for the Deaf Community via sms ›› Websites ›› Creation of events/activites/queries ›› Strict compliance with concession agreement ›› Criteria definition for improved service measures ›› Compliance of the Concession Agreement ›› Optimization of technical solutions ›› Elaboration and execution of specific studies ›› Negotiation process, with impact on Concession Agreement ›› Contract/agreement management ›› Compliance of the Concession Agreement ›› Creation of events/activities/queries ›› Elaboration of reports ›› Analysis of proposals, sugestions and complaints ›› ACT negotiation ›› Innovation model ›› Innovation Cluster ›› Development of long term joint projects ›› Certification ›› Protocols with universities and research institutions ›› Supports the production of scientific literature ›› Integration of expectations during the negotiation process ›› Ethic and Transparency ›› Elaboration on sectorial studies and meeting reports ›› Eco-efficiency and Operational Management ›› Compliance with contract conditions ›› Dedicated channel to contract management ›› Ethic and Transparency ›› Stable and long term relationship ›› Contract management system and technical support ›› Integration of benchmark conclusions in the decision making process ›› Operational Management ›› Stakeholders Engagement ›› Dedicated Channel for media ›› Externalidades Positivas ›› Meetings, press releases, support and background information ›› Contributo dos Colaboradores ›› Ethic and Transparency ›› Transparência e informação de qualidade ›› Eco-efficiency and Operational Management 14 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 • 01 PRESENTATION Organizations of reference this area and with the objective of helping to disseminate the best practices applicable to its sector, since it joined the organization Brisa actively participates in a number of organizations, including in May 2007, Brisa has been an active member both in concrete sectorial associations and entities of reference related to sustainable projects in the area of Mobility, and through the participation of its apcap.pt asecap.com development. chairman, Vasco de Mello, in the Development Area’s Focus Area ibtta.org Core Team. crp.pt With the exception of the United Nations Global Compact, Brisa is wbcsd.org bcsdportugal.org present in the management boards of all: BCSD PORTUGAL unglobalcompact.org APCAP Business Council for Sustainable Development Association of Portuguese Concession Companies of Toll Motorways Brisa’s Chairman, Vasco de Mello, ended his term as Chairman of the or Bridges largest national business organization dedicated to sustainability in May 2010, and is currently a board member. ASECAP The Business Council for Sustainable Development (BCSD), has European Association of Toll Motorways Operators over 100 members and its activities promote change towards sustainability through business leadership, focussing on innovation, IBTTA eco-efficiency and social responsibility. International Bridge, Tunnel and Turnpike Association IBTTA UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT CRP This is a corporate citizenship initiative launched by the United Nations in 2000 that involves stakeholders based on universally Portuguese Road Centre accepted principles: the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, Declaration of the International Labour Organization on the WBCSD Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work, the Rio Declaration on the Environment and Development. Brisa signed the United World Business Council for Sustainable Development Nations Global Compact on 8 October 2007, reinforcing its public commitment to sustainable development. The pact establishes the Brisa is a member of the World Business Council for Sustainable framework for the topic and the fundamental guiding principles that Development (WBCSD), an international organization comprising Brisa will include in its process of internationalization, granting it a more than 200 companies dedicated to promoting sustainable coherent global framework. Membership also helps to incorporate development. In line with the work carried out by the company in values of sustainable development in Brisa’s value chain. PRINCIPLES OF THE UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT PRINCIPLE PAGE Human Rights 1 Support and respect the protection of human rights 81 2 Prevent human rights abuses 81 Labour 3 Uphold the freedom of association and collective bargaining 82 4 Eliminate all forms of forced and compulsory labour 83 5 Abolish child labour 83 6 Eliminate discrimination in respect of employment and occupation 30, 82 Environment 7 Support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges 39 45, 64 73 8 Promote greater environmental responsibility 39 45, 64 73 9 Encourage development of environmentally friendly technologies 39 45, 64 73 Anti-corruption 10 Work against corruption in all its forms 30, 85 15 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 • 01 PRESENTATION THE BRISA GROUP AT THE END OF 2010, THE PORTUGUESE ROAD Corporate Reorganization CONCESSION MARKET WAS MADE UP OF The aim of Brisa’s Corporate Reorganization was to transform the 21 CONCESSIONS, INCLUDING 3 000 KM OF company into a portfolio management company with operational MOTORWAYS. BRISA RUNS HALF OF THESE activities. Implemented during 2009 and 2010, this reorganization 3 000 KILOMETRES HOLDING 6 MOTORWAY separated the concession business, allocating this to a company that is fully owned by Brisa, BCR Brisa Concessão Rodoviária, from CONCESSIONS. its other operation and maintenance business handled by the new affiliate BO&M Brisa Operação e Manutenção, with innovation & In business for 39 years, Brisa Auto-Estradas is one of the largest development being allocated to BIT – Brisa Inovação e Tecnologia. motorway operators in the world and the biggest transport In parallel with this, the Group’s operational companies were also infrastructures company in Portugal. reorganised, keeping Brisa as the central company in the Group. On the international front, Brisa controls the Northwest Parkway One of the main alterations introduced by this reorganization concession in the USA, its first asset on North American soil. was the ring-fencing of the Brisa concession (BCR), limiting the exposure of its financial backers solely to this concession, with Brisa’s experience abroad includes its stake in the largest motorway a consequent improvement and stability in ratings. In practice, operator in Latin America, the Brazilian company CCR Companhia Brisa’s debt was transferred to BCR, leading to a new contractual de Concessões Rodoviárias, since 2001. In 2010, Brisa sold its package applicable to the financing of its operation, regardless of holding in CCR with proceeds of over EUR 1.2 billion. whether this is contracted in the banking market or issued on the capital market, and a new package of convenants and guarantees To support its operations, Brisa operates a number of road comparable to those in other road infrastructure projects. related businesses, including Brisa Operação e Manutenção (Brisa O&M), which provides assistance to all the Group’s domestic MAIN ADVANTAGES OF THE CORPORATE REORGANIZATION concessionaires. Via Verde, one of Brisa’s most emblematic products, is an electronic payment system which automatically Optimised financial structure debits the user’s bank account with the toll amount corresponding to the distance travelled. i) Greater stability and foreseeability in terms of rating, a crucial factor for a leading company. The company’s rating is no longer Present in the capital market for over a decade, Brisa is listed on penalised by project finance non-resource debt, as BCR ceases to Euronext Lisbon and is included in its main index, the PSI 20. At be exposed to risks outside of its own concession; the end of 2010, its market capitalization was over EUR 3 billion. ii) Renegotiation of EIB (European Investment Bank) loans, which is Brisa is also part of Euronext 100 – an index made up of the a unique opportunity, given that debt markets are pratically closed. largest companies in France, Holland, Belgium and Portugal; the With the ring-fencing of the Brisa Concession, the EIB loans were Bloomberg European 500 an index including the 500 European converted into a single debt with reduced depreciation and the due companies with the largest market capitalization; and the FTSE4 date was extended until 2030; Good, the European reference index for social responsibility. BUSINESS AREAS MOTORWAY CONCESSIONS ROAD SERVICES BCR | AEA | BRISAL | AEDL | AEBT | AELO BOM | BIT | VVP | MCALL | CONTROLAUTO INTERNATIONAL INFRASTRUCTURES CCR | NWP | MOVENIENCE BEG | ELOS | ASTERION | TIIC 16 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 • 01 PRESENTATION iii) Greater financial solidity, helping the sustained growth of the RISK MANAGEMENT business together with a stable upturn for shareholders. With the new structure, Brisa no longer needs to allocate funds to amortise Risk Management aims to guarantee the sustained growth of the the debt, which allows funds to be channeled into investment in businesses and to safeguard the value of the Brisa Group through new businesss while minimising the dividend risk. the adoption of the best practices, helping to capitalise on in-house knowledge and on the effective management of the risks that the More efficient business units group is exposed to, namely in the environmental, legal, financial and operational areas. i) Better definition of priorities and objectives of each business unit. Concessions encouraged to optimise investment and their The risk management process, still under development, is based on relationship with the concession grantor. Operational units more a structured, systematic and disciplined approach, contemplating focussed on obtaining gains in efficiency; the following aspects: ii) Improved level of central and specific competences that enhance i) Setting strategic objectives for the assumption of risk; more robust and sustained growth; ii) Aligning the risks effectively incurred with the group’s strategic iii) Higher visibility of the value of assets and cash-flow, helping option; to focus on the profitabilty of the capital invested and provide an effective approach in portfolio management. iii) Identification of the main risks inherent to the group’s activities and their respective causes; The result of this corporate reorganization process was a major creation of value for Brisa and its shareholders by obtaining a iv) Analysis and gauging of the impact and probability of the higher rating (albeit estimated) of BCR that takes into consideration occurrence of each potential risk; a regular flow of dividends, anchored on a strong and stable cashflow. v) Definition of control mechanisms over the execution of the risk management measures adopted and monitoring of their efficacy; 17 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 • 01 PRESENTATION vi) Adoption of internal information and communication mechanisms for the diverse components in the system, together with risk alerts; vii) Periodic assessment of the system implemented and adoption of the modifications considered necessary. A tool was developed for this purpose in 2010 for the integrated management of the risk management system, in line with the aspects referred to above. In parallel with this, in-depth work is in hand that implies the involvement and active participation of each of the areas in the company in order to identify and classify the risks that each area faces and for these to then be classified and monitored through the integrated risk management system. In 2010, the process was also begun to converge risk management with the strategic planning through the identification and assessment of the main risks of the Brisa Group’s portfolio of businesses, as well as the definition of strategies for their management and mitigation. For this purpose, the various business units included the risk factors and respective impacts associated to the defined strategic objectives in their action plans, as well as the mitigation measures to be adopted, taking into consideration the limits of tolerance to the strategically defined risk and which will be monitored through the integrated risk management system. In the first risk survey carried out, the following major risk groups that could affect the normal development of Brisa’s business were identified: Operational Risks The ongoing investment in the excellence and innovation of its different operations, with special emphasis on the expectations of its customers, namely with regard to traffic safety, comfort and fluidity, the quality of infrastructures and the service provided, demonstrates the Group’s commitment to continuous improvement. In this regard, support for road safety campaigns and the improved safety characteristics of its network, implemented by carrying out improvement works and the widening of motorways to respect the Group’s demanding standards and in compliance with legislation in force, aim to create the conditions necessary for improved traffic circulation. The existence of a crisis management and communication model to address emergency situations and the definition of specific contingency plans for the diverse areas demonstrates the Group’s concern and dedication in the management of its operational activity. In terms of Health and Safety at Work, Brisa has a specialised structure that supervises and performs the central and local coordination of the health and safety plans associated to risk activities. In 2010, diverse initiatives related with activities subject to the risk of people being run over by vehicles were reinforced, namely, those developed at the toll barriers, which were notified and extended to the companies contracted in. The Operational Coordination Centre, supported by a telematic and road safety infrastructure, records and processes information, keeping it up-to-date and making it available in good time to 18 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 • 01 PRESENTATION customers and complementary support services. With the creation of that it comprises, with the aim of supporting their business two Toll Operation Centres in 2010, Brisa tightened its control over activities. internal operations and made complementary resources available with the timely identification of situations requiring intervention. In this regard, the activities developed in this area, related with the safety of the information and the resilience of the infrastructure, The culture of innovation, consolidated in 2010 through the contemplate action aimed at mitigating different aspects of creation of Brisa Operação e Manutenção, enables Brisa to stay at the risks to which the group is exposed, namely the redundancy the forefront of technological evolution and in the modernization and safety of the telecommunications infrastructure and the of its infrastructures and operations, through partnerships with implementation of safe systems with a high degree of availability a number of leading companies and universities, reflecting its with the objective of ensuring the integrity of the data and the commitment in a critical area. continuity of the business. The systematic concern to improve, with special emphasis on the In 2010, the Group also pressed ahead with the assessment and identification of a number of operational risks and management implementation of disaster recovery strategies for its information measures and risk mitigation practices adapted to the current needs systems. of its businesses, falls within the Group’s strategy to address the demands of a constantly changing global reality where prevention Financial Risks is fundamental. Brisa is exposed to a series of financial risks. In this respect the Regulation & Compliance Risks main risks are the liquidity and interest rate risks arising from its debt portfolio, the exchange rate risk, resulting from investments The operation and running of infrastructure concessions is subject in international markets and the counterparty risk to which the to very specific and exhaustive regulation. In this regard, the risk company is exposed from performing risk hedging operations and arising from regulatory changes is a prime factor. financial applications. The Legal Department plays a particularly important role in The Group has a financial risk management department, which is the management of the regulation risk, closely monitoring the responsible for the monitoring and management of the liquidity, evolution of regulations covering the activities and markets in interest rate, exchange and credit risks. This department identifies which the Group operates, proposing the most appropriate legal and quantifies the financial risks to which the group is exposed and measures and solutions for the legal framework in force. proposes appropriate management or mitigation measures. One of its main activities in 2010 was the in-depth work carried out The Financial Department performs the centralised management of in relation to privacy and safety in the handling of databases and a financing operations, applications of any cash surplus, exchange training relating to new public procurement legislation, concerning transactions, together with the management of the group’s the management and supervision of works and project contracts. counterparty risk. Environmental Risks From the financial point of view, Brisa’s corporate reorganization also represented a gain, given that the holding company Brisa The Brisa Group identified environmental management as one of – Auto Estradas de Portugal S.A., ceased to hold debt and was its priorities in the motorway design, construction and operation therefore also no longer directly assessed by the rating agencies, stages, taking steps, for the purpose, aimed at identifying which now apply their assessment criteria to the affiliate Brisa environmental risk situations and taking preventive action in the Concessão Rodoviária (BRC), the entity to which the debt was management of measures to minimise their impact, in conformity transferred. with the Environmental Policy established. Brisa therefore managed to improve its rating, going from to AIn this regard, the Group takes steps throughout its value chain to (stable), in Fitch’s rating and to Baa1 (stable), under Moody’s. Rating ensure that it acts responsibly, pursuing environmental objectives was no longer affected by the activity of the other companies of the and targets, complying with applicable legislation and regulations, Group, only varying according to the impact from the activity of the together with other requirements related with environmental Brisa concession. aspects arising from its activities. The corporate reorganization also helped to optimise the capital The existence of companies that are environmentally certified structure of Brisa Concessão Rodoviária, giving it greater flexibility by standard ISO 14001, internationally acknowledged as the to make new investments. We therefore have a more efficient benchmark that defines the directives on the area of environmental approach to the management of the Group’s portfolio. management in companies, as well as the adoption by the Group of specific directives (the Declaration of Environmental Policy), OPERATIONAL EFFICIENCY of criteria of eco-efficiency, of quantitative objectives for critical environmental indicators and of a Sustainability Management The corporate reorganization of the Brisa Group further strengthened Information System, reinforce the tough standards in the quest its focus on the efficiency of its business areas, with the operational for continuous improvement and the promotion of the sustainable area being a key feature for pursuing this objective, given the high performance of its businesses. potential for creating synergies and economies of scale. Information Systems Risks As a result of this process, three operational units became autonomous, the mission of which is to provide services to the The Brisa Group’s information technology and communications different concessions: Via Verde, Brisa Operação e Manutenção systems exist as a means of pursuing the mission of the companies (BO&M) and Brisa Inovação e Tecnologia (BIT). 19 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 • 01 PRESENTATION Via Verde: Reducing transaction costs all of the group’s national motorways concessionaires. In terms of the current operation of infrastructures, BO&M focuses on Via Verde provides electronic toll payment services to all the monitoring operations and equipment and on staff management, concessionaires of bridges or motorways that have tolls, and has extending its activity to the collection, control and recovery of around 2.6 million customers. Its activity focuses on reducing the revenue. cost per transaction, which is achieved by increasing the number of transactions. With the implementation of this system in the The payment systems are a strategic area of BO&M with regard new tolled concessions, it can be expected that the volume of to the efficiency and quality of service. In this regard the Nova Via transactions will more than double in the midterm. In the Brisa Manual has been developed. Today there are 249 of these seminetwork, transactions made through this system represent around automatic payment collection units installed throughout the Brisa 62% of total toll payments. Transaction costs through this system network, and they validate the company’s innovation drive with represent around 1/3 of the cost of the transactions made via benefits for the quality of service provided to the customer. manual tolls. Brisa Inovação e Tecnologia: Efficiency through Currently, the Via Verde service is not limited to just tolls, with the technology system being implemented in 97 of Galp’s petrol stations, in 92 car parks, in the access to four historic neighbourhoods and, still at the BIT was created from the merger of the previous Innovation and test stage, in the McDrive takeaway service in three McDonalds’ Technology Department with Brisa Access Electrónica Rodoviária. restaurants. This unit undertakes activities related with the research, conception, development, production, installation, support and maintenance of Brisa Operação e Manutenção: integrated all the intelligent transport equipment, systems and services that service provision support the operation and the running of the group’s motorways. Resulting from the merger between the various operation and This company focuses on developing projects for internal customers, maintenance departments and Brisa Assistência Rodoviária, for example such as the Nova Via Manual, the telematic road BO&M’s mission is to provide specialised and integrated monitoring, equipment and supporting the need for technological solutions in operation, maintenance and support services to customers, and to other geographic or business development areas. Toll Plaza, Benavente (A10) 20 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 • 01 PRESENTATION COMPANIES Brisa Concession BRISA.PT BRISAL.PT ›› 11 Motorways; aeatlantico.pt ›› Length: approximately 1,100 km; litoraloeste.pt ›› Concession period: until 2035; baixotejo.pt ›› Main national road network extends from North to South Porto and East to West; ›› The construction of the access to the New Lisbon Airport will conclude the total network; ›› In 2010 it was concluded the installation of 249 automatic payment machines – via manual. Brisal Concession ›› 1 Motorway: A17 (Litoral Centro); ›› Length: 92.7 km; ›› Concession period: 22 to 30 years; ›› Investment of 575 million euros; ›› The concession links the A8, A17 and A29, making up the second North-South corridor connecting Lisbon and Oporto, via the West region; ›› Fully automated, with Via Manual and Via Mais Verde systems. Atlântico Concession Lisboa ›› 2 Motorways: A8 (Lisboa – Leiria) and A15 (Caldas da Rainha – Santarém); ›› Length: 170 km; ›› Concession period: 30 years (adjudicated Dec. 1998); ›› Strong urban nature, serving the northern region of Lisbon metropolitan area; ›› The installation of automatic payment machines – via manual in the concession was concluded in 2010. N Litoral Oeste Concession 0 50 km Faro ›› 3 Motorways: IC2, IC9 e IC36; ›› Lenght: 111,6 Km; Of which 81.7 km is for construction and operation, 26.8 km is for operation only and 3.1 km concerns widening works; Douro atlântico ›› Concession period: 30 years (Contract in Feb. 2009); ›› Investment of 622 million euros; Brisal Baixo tejo ›› Located in central region of the country, it connects the Oeste Brisa A1, A8 and the A17. Baixo Tejo Concession ›› Contract awarded in January 2009; ›› Total length of 68 km, 17 km of which are tolled. The Douro Litoral Concession existing network totalling 34 km comprises the IC32, IC3, IC20 and IC21. The 34 km network still to be built includes ›› 3 motorways with real tolls: A32, A41 and A43; the IC32, Connections to Trafaria and Funchalinho and ›› Length: 76 km; the ER 377-2. In addition, Avenida do Mar with 5 km in ›› Concession period: 27 years (Contract in Dec 2007); length will be modernized and subsequently transferred ›› Investment: approx. One billion euros; to the Concession Grantor. ›› Operation and maintenance for a period of 5 years ›› Concession period: 30 years; (up to March 2013) of the main road axes around the ›› Investment of 289 million euros; Oporto metropolitan area, this second network totalling ›› Design, planning, construction, lane widening works, approximately 53 kilometres; financing, operation and maintenance of motorway ›› Network playing a crucial role in economic development, stretches, regional and other roads in the district of Setúbal; linking and complementing existing motorways, including ›› Strong synergies with the Brisa network, since the the A1, A3 and A4. concession will link the A2 to the A12; 21 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 • 01 PRESENTATION ROAD SERVICES INFRASTRUCTURES Brisa Operation and Maintenance Brisa Engenharia e Gestão VIAVERDE.PT MCALL.PT brisainovacao.pt ›› Established in December 2009; ›› Active in the management and coordination of studies controlauto.pt ›› Gathers all operating and maintenance services; and projects, expropriations and works supervision and grupoccr.com.br ›› Provides reference services, namely active traffic management of engineering structures and pavements; northwestparkway.org movenience.nl management, customer information and satisfaction, ›› Collaborates in the international public tender for the road assistance and management of the service areas Poceirão/Caia High Speed Train concession, which will be network. part of the high speed railway connection between Lisbon and Madrid, and in the preparation of the bid for the future Via Verde tender for the new Lisbon Airport; ›› Provides management and coordination of projects, ›› Via Verde Portugal is held by Brisa in 60%, by Ascendi in expropriations and works supervision for the Douro 20% and by SIBS Sociedade Interbancária de Serviços, Litoral, Baixo Tejo and Litoral Oeste concessions and the a Portuguese company which centralises interbank contracts for the improvement and widening works of settlement and manages the Multibanco (ATM) network, Brisa networks; in 20%; ›› In the international market, provides technical and ›› Provides non-stop electronic toll payment ; organizational support to AGA (Algérienne de Gestion ›› The system is currently available in other motorway des Autoroutes). concessionaires in Portugal (Auto-estradas do Atlântico, Ascendi, Mafratlântico, Brisal e Lusoponte), providing ELOS Ligações de Alta Velocidade S.A interoperability among different networks; ›› With this innovating system installed nation-wide, ›› Brisa’s share: 16,3%; Portugal became the first country in the world to have a ›› Concession Contract: May 2010; non-stop electronic toll network; ›› Investment of 1 496 million euros. ›› The Via Verde system is also available in car parks belonging to different operators, in Galp fuel stations INTERNATIONAL SUBSIDIARIES and is currently being tested in three McDonald’s McDrive restaurants; Brazil: CCR – Companhia de Concessões Rodoviárias ›› Accounts for nearly 62% of toll transactions in Portugal; ›› Largest private group operating in the road infrastructures ›› Used in over 1,400 kilometres of motorways and bridges, sector in Brazil; over 92 car parks and 97 fuel stations; ›› Operates 1571 km; ›› Over 2.6 million users. ›› Manages NovaDutra, AutoBan, ViaOeste, RodoAnel, Ponte, ViaLagos and RodoNorte concessions. CCR holds Mcall a 40% stake in the share capital of concessionaire Renovias since 2008, managing a total of 345.6 km; ›› Specialised in call services; ›› Viewing business diversification, CCR will operate and ›› Responsible for handling Via Verde’s customer support maintain Line 4 of the São Paulo Underground, which will line, Brisa’s Blue Number and Controlauto line; be inaugurated in the first half of 2010. It also acquired ›› Manages requests for assistance from hearing disabled a 45% stake in the share capital of Controlar, a car people (via SMS) in motorways. inspection company. ›› The process of alienation was concluded in Dec. 2010. Brisa Innovation United States of America: ›› Established in December 2009; Northwest Parkway ›› Results from the merger of BAER – Brisa Access Electrónica Rodoviária and DIT – Direcção de Inovação e Tecnologia; ›› Concession representing an important step in the Group’s ›› Active in research, design, development, production, internationalization process and a test to its capacity to installation, support and maintenance of the equipment, add value in this market; system and intelligent services required for the operation ›› In 2009 it launched many innovating projects viewing to of the Group’s motorways; optimize its operational efficiency, namely the replacement ›› Follows up and provides support to the technological of the old toll collection system with an electronic tolling needs of Brisa in other fields and geographic areas. system. Based on the automatic recognition of licence plates, Northwest Parkway became one of the pioneers Controlauto in licence plate tolling. ›› Operates in the car inspection sector; Holland: Movenience ›› Network of 46 inspection centres; ›› Electronic toll collection in the Westerschelde Tunnel; ›› Movenience is strategically positioned to act as partner of the Dutch Government in the implementation of the national road pricing programme; ›› Privileged partner for the development of business opportunities in the Benelux region. 22 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 • 01 PRESENTATION CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Good corporate governance is a Brisa complies with the Corporate Governance Code released by factor of motivation for effective and the Securities and Exchange Commission (CMVM) under the terms of paragraph 1 article 1 of CMVM Regulation 1/2010. efficient management which benefits all stakeholders, ensuring compatibility Thus, under the terms and for the purposes of this Regulation, Brisa between economic, social, individual and warrants that the level of compliance with recommendations laid down in the CMVM’s Corporate Governance Code is as follows: public interests. Recommendations of the CMVM Degree of fulfilment I. General Meeting of Shareholders I.1 Board of the General Meeting of Shareholders I.1.1 The Chairman of the Board of the General Meeting of Shareholders shall have human and logistic support resources as appropriate for his needs, taking into account the company’s Complies economic position. I.1.2 The remuneration of the Chairman of the Board of the General Meeting of Shareholders Complies should be published in the Annual Report on Corporate Governance. I.2 Participation in the General Meeting of Shareholders I.2.1 Not applicable pursuant to article 23-C of the Securities Code (CVM) I.2.2 Not applicable pursuant to article 23-C of the CVM I.3 Voting and Exercise of Voting Rights I.3.1 Companies shall not impose any statutory restriction on postal voting and whenever Complies adopted or admissible, on electronic voting. I.3.2 The statutory deadline for receiving early voting ballots by mail may not exceed three Complies working days. I.3.3 Companies shall ensure that the level of voting rights and the shareholder’s participation are proportional, ideally through the statutory provision that obliges the one share-one vote principle. Companies that: i) hold shares that do not confer voting rights; ii) establish the nonComplies casting of voting rights above a certain number, when issued solely by a shareholder or by shareholders related to the former, do not comply with the proportionality principle. I.4 Shareholders’ Meeting quorum Complies Companies shall not establish a Shareholders’ Meeting quorum greater than that provided for at law. I.5 Minutes and Information on Resolutions Passed Extracts from the minutes of the general meetings or documents with corresponding content must be made available to shareholders on the company’s website within a five day period after the General Meeting has been held, irrespective of the fact that such information may not be Complies classified as material information. The information disclosed shall cover the resolutions passed, the represented capital and the voting results. Said information shall be kept on file on the company’s website for no less than a 3 year period. I.6 Measures on Corporate Control I.6.1 Measures aimed at preventing successful takeover bids shall respect both the company’s and the shareholders’ interests. The company’s articles of association that by complying with said principle provide for the restriction of the number of votes that may be held or exercised by a sole shareholder, either individually or together with other shareholders, shall also allow for a Complies resolution by the General Assembly, at least every 5 years), on whether that statutory provision is to be amended or if it is to prevail – without super quorum requirements as to the one legally in force – and that in this resolution all votes issued will be counted without applying the said restriction. I.6.2 In cases such as a change of control or changes to the composition of the Board of Directors, defensive measures shall not be adopted that instigate an immediate and serious Complies asset erosion in the company, and further disturb the free transmission of shares and voluntary performance assessment by the shareholders of the members of the Board of Directors. 23 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 • 01 PRESENTATION II. Board of Directors and Supervisory Board II.1. General Points II.1.1. Structure and Competence II.1.1.1 The Board of Directors shall assess the adopted model in its Annual Report on Corporate Governance and pin-point possible constraints on its operation and shall propose measures that Complies it deems fit for surpassing such obstacles. II.1.1.2 Companies shall set up internal control and risk management systems in order to safeguard the company’s worth and that will benefit the transparency of its corporate governance. These systems shall include at least the following components: i) setting of the company’s strategic objectives as regards risk assumption; ii) identification of the main risks associated to the company’s activity and any events that might generate risks; iii) analysis and assessment of the impact and probability of occurrence of each of the potential risks; iv) risk Complies management aimed at aligning effectively incurred risks with the company’s strategic options for risk assumption; v) control mechanisms over the execution of the risk management measures adopted and over their efficacy; vi) adoption of internal information and communication mechanisms on the diverse components of the system and risk alerts; vii) periodic assessment of the system implemented and adoption of the modifications that are deemed necessary. Complies. II.1.1.3 The Board of Directors shall ensure the establishment and functioning of the internal control and risk management systems. The Supervisory Board shall be responsible for assessing Complies the functioning of these systems and proposing the relevant adjustment to the company’s needs. II.1.1.4 Companies shall, in the Annual Report on Corporate Governance: i) identify the main economic, financial and legal risks that the company is exposed to during the exercise of its Complies activity; ii) describe the performance and efficacy of the risk management system. II.1.1.5 The Board of Directors and the Supervisory Board shall establish internal regulations and Complies shall have these disclosed on the company’s website. II.1.2 Incompatibility and Independence II.1.2.1 The Board of Directors shall include a number of non-executive members who ensure Complies the efficient supervision, auditing and assessment of the executive members’ activity. II.1.2.2 Non-executive members must include an adequate number of independent members, taking into account the size of the company and its shareholder structure, and which may never Complies be less than a fourth of the total number of Board Directors. II.1.2.3 The independence assessment of its non-executive members carried out by the Board of Directors shall take into account the legal and regulatory rules in force concerning the independence requirements and the incompatibility framework applicable to members of other corporate boards, which ensure orderly and sequential coherence in applying independence Complies criteria to the whole company. An independent executive member shall not be considered as such if he is not able to assume this capacity in another corporate board owing to the applicable standards. II.1.3 Eligibility and Appointment Criteria II.1.3.1 Depending on the applicable model, the Chairman of the Supervisory Board and of the Audit and Financial Affairs Committees, shall be independent and adequately competent to Complies carry out his/her respective duties. II.1.3.2. The selection process of candidates for non-executive members shall be conceived so as Complies prevent interference by executive members. II.I.4 Policy an the Reporting af Irregularities II.1.4.1 The company shall adopt a policy whereby irregularities allegedly occurring within the company are reported. Such reports shall contain the following information: i) indication of the means by which such irregularities may be reported internally, including the persons that Complies are entitled to receive the reports; ii) indication of how the report is to be handled, including confidential treatment, should it be required by the reporter. Complies. Brisa implemented an irregularity II.1.4.2. The general guidelines on this policy shall be disclosed in the Annual Report on notification system, the regulations of which Corporate Governance. are available at www.brisa.pt. 24 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 • 01 PRESENTATION II.1.5 Remuneration II.1.5.1 The remuneration of the Members of the Board of Directors shall be structured so that their interests may be aligned with the long-term interests of the company. This shall therefore be based on performance assessment and excessive risk assumption shall be discouraged. For this purpose, remunerations shall be structured, namely, in the following manner: (i) The remuneration of directors who exercise executive functions shall include a variable element which is determined by a performance assessment carried out by the company’s competent bodies according to preestablished quantifiable criteria, which considers the real growth of the company and the wealth effectively created for shareholders, its long-term sustainability and the risks taken on, as well as compliance with the rules applicable to the company’s activity; (ii) The variable component of the remuneration shall be reasonable overall as regards the fixed component of the remuneration and maximum limits shall be set for all components; (iii) A significant part of the variable remuneration shall be deferred for a period of not less than three years and its payment shall depend of the company’s steady positive performance during this period; Complies (iv) Members of the Board of Directors shall not enter into contracts either with the company or with third parties that will have the effect of mitigating the risk inherent in the variability of their remuneration established by the company; (v) Up to the end of their mandate, executive directors shall keep the company’s shares that they obtained under variable remuneration schemes, up to the limit of twice the value of their total annual remuneration, with the exception of those shares that are required to be sold for the payment of taxes on the gains of these shares; (vi) When the variable remuneration includes stock options, the period for exercising these shall be deferred for a period of not less than three years; (vii) The appropriate legal instruments shall be established so that in the event of a Director’s dismissal without due cause, the envisaged compensation shall not be paid if the dismissal or termination by agreement is due to the Director’s inadequate performance; viii) The remuneration of Non-Executive Committee Members shall not include any component the value of which is subject to the performance or the value of the company. II.1.5.2 The statement on the remuneration policy of the Board of Directors and Supervisory Board referred to in Article 2 of Law No. 28/2009 of 19 June, shall contain, in addition to the content therein, adequate information Complies on: i) which groups of companies the remuneration policy and practices of which were taken as a baseline for setting the remuneration ii) the payments for the dismissal or termination by agreement of the Directors’ duties. II.1.5.3 The remuneration policy statement referred to in Article 2 of Law No. 28/2009 shall also include the directors’ remunerations which contain an important variable component, within the meaning of Article 248-B/3 of the Securities Code. The statement shall be detailed and the policy presented shall particularly take the longComplies term performance of the company, compliance with the rules applicable to its business and restraint in taking risks into account. II.1.5.4 A proposal shall be submitted at the General Meeting on the approval of plans for the allotment of shares and/or options for share purchase or based on variations in share prices to members of the Board of Directors and Supervisory Board and other managers within the context of Article 248/3/B of the Securities Code. The proposal shall mention all the necessary information for the correct assessment of the plan and shall Complies be accompanied by the regulations of the plan or in its absence, the plan’s general conditions. Similarly the main characteristics of the retirement benefit plans established for members of the Board of Directors and Supervisory Board and other managers within the context of Article 248/3/B of the Securities Code, shall also be approved at the General Meeting of Shareholders. II.1.5.5 The remuneration of the members of the Board of Directors and Supervisory Board shall be published annually and individually, with a breakdown, as appropriate, of the different components received in terms Complies of fixed and variable remuneration, as well as remuneration received in other companies of the Group, or in companies controlled by shareholders who hold qualified shareholdings. II.1.5.6. At least one representative of the Remuneration Committee shall be present at the Annual General Complies Meeting of Shareholders. II.1.5.7. The amount of remuneration received, as a whole and individually, in other companies of the group and the pension rights acquired during the financial year in question shall be disclosed in the Annual Report on Complies Corporate Governance. II.2 Board of Directors II.2.1 Within the limits established by law for each management and supervisory structure, and unless the company is of a reduced size, the Board of Directors shall delegate the day-to-day running and the delegated Complies duties shall be identified in the Annual Report on Corporate Governance. II.2.2 O The Board of Directors must ensure that the company acts in accordance with its goals, and shall not delegate its duties, namely with regard to: i) definition of the company’s strategy and general policies; ii) Complies definition of the corporate structure of the group; iii) decisions taken that are considered to be strategic due to the amounts, risk and particular characteristics involved 25 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 • 01 PRESENTATION II.2.3 If the Chairman of the Board of Directors carries out executive duties, the Board of Directors shall set up efficient mechanisms for coordinating non-executive members that can ensure that these may reach decisions Complies in an independent and informed manner. It shall explain these mechanisms to the shareholders in the Annual Report on Corporate Governance. II.2.4 The Annual Management Report shall include a description of the activity carried out by the non-Executive Complies Committee Members and shall mention any restraints encountered. II.2.5 The company shall expound its policy of portfolio rotation with regard to the Board of Directors, including the person responsible for the financial portfolio, and report on same in the Annual Report on Corporate Complies Governance. II.3 Chief Executive Officer (CEO), Executive Committee and Executive Board of Directors II.3.1 When Directors who carry out executive duties are requested by other Board Members to supply information, Complies the former shall do so in a timely and appropriate manner. II.3.2 The Chairman of the Executive Committee shall send convening notices and the minutes of the respective meetings to the Chairman of the Board of Directors and, as applicable, to the Chairman of the Supervisory Board Complies or the Auditing Committee. II.3.3 Not applicable. II.4 General and Supervisory Board, Financial Affairs Committee, Audit Committee and Audit Board II.4.1 Not applicable. II.4.2 The annual reports on the activity carried out by the General and Supervisory Board, the Financial Affairs Committee, the Audit Committee and the Audit Board shall be disclosed on the company’s website together with Complies the financial statements. II.4.3 The annual reports on the activity carried out by the General and Supervisory Board, the Financial Affairs Committee, the Audit Committee and the Audit Board shall include a description on the supervisory activity and Complies shall mention any constraints that they may have come up against. II.4.4 The Financial Affairs Committee, the Audit Committee and the Audit Board, depending on the applicable model, shall represent the company for all purposes before the external auditor, and shall propose the services supplier, the respective remuneration, ensure that adequate conditions for the supply of these services are in Complies place within the company, as well as being the liaison officer between the company and the first recipient of the respective reports. II.4.5 The General and Supervisory Board, the Audit Committee and the Audit Board, depending on the applicable model, shall assess the external auditor on an annual basis and propose to the General Meeting of Shareholders Complies that s/he be discharged whenever there are justifiable grounds. II.4.6. The internal audit services and those that ensure compliance with the rules applicable to the company (compliance services), i in the case of companies adopting the Latin model, shall functionally report to an Complies independent director or to the Audit Board, regardless of the hierarchical relationship that these services have with the executive management of the company. II.5 SPECIAL COMMITTEES II.5.1 Unless the company is of a reduced size, the Board of Directors and the General and Supervisory Board, depending on the adopted model, shall set up the necessary Committees in order to: i) ensure that a competent and independent assessment of the Executive Directors’ performance is carried out, as well as its own overall Complies performance and also of the performance of all committees; ii) study the adopted system of governance and check its efficacy and propose measures to the competent bodies to be carried out with a view to its improvements iii) in due time identify potential candidates with the high profile required to perform the duties of a director. II.5.2 The members of the Remuneration Committee or equivalent shall be independent from the members of the Board of Directors. The Remuneration Committee shall include at least one member with knowledge and Complies experience in matters of remuneration policy. II.5.3 Any natural or legal person who provides or has provided, over the past three years, services to any structure reporting to the Board of Directors, to the Board of Directors itself or who has a current relationship with the consultant to the company shall not be recruited to assist the Remuneration Committee in the performance of Complies its functions. This recommendation also applies to any natural or legal person who has an employment contract or provides services. II.5.4 All the Committees shall draw up minutes of the meetings held. Complies 26 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 • 01 PRESENTATION Information and audit III.1 General Disclosure Duties III.1.1 Companies shall maintain permanent contact with the market, upholding the principle of equality of shareholders and ensuring that investors are all able to access information in a like fashion. To this end, the Complies company shall create an Investor Assistance Unit. III.1.2 The following information that is made available on the company’s Internet website, shall be disclosed in the English language: i) The company, public company status, headquarters and remaining data provided for in Article 171 of the Commercial Companies Code; ii) Articles of Association; iii) Identity of the of the members of the Board of Directors and the Market Liaison Officer; Complies iv) The Investor Assistance Unit, its respective functions and means of access; v) Accounts Reporting documents; vi) Half-Yearly Calendar on Company Events; vii) Proposals presented for discussion and voting during the General Meeting; viii) Notices for convening the General Meeting. III.1.3 Companies shall advocate the rotation of auditors after two or three terms, whether these be, respectively, of four or three years. Their continuance beyond this period must be based on a specific opinion for the Supervisory Board to formally consider the conditions of auditor independence and the benefits and costs of replacement. III.1.4 The external auditor must, within its powers, verify the implementation of remuneration policies and systems, the efficiency and functioning of internal control mechanisms and report any shortcomings to the company’s Supervisory Board. III.1.5 The company shall not recruit the external auditor for services other than audit services, nor any entities with which same takes part or incorporates the same network. Where recruiting such services is called for – which should be approved by the Supervisory Board and must be detailed in the Annual Report on Corporate Governance – these services should not be greater than 30% of the total value of services rendered to the company. IV. Conflicts of interest IV.1 The Company’s business with shareholders with qualifying holdings, or entities with which the latter are Complies linked in accordance with Article 20 of the Securities Code, shall be carried out in normal market conditions. IV.1.2 Where deals of significant importance are undertaken with holders of qualifying holdings, or entities with which the latter are linked in accordance with Article 20 of the Securities Code, such deals shall be subject to a Complies preliminary opinion from the Supervisory Board. The procedures and criteria required to define the relevant level of significance of these deals and other conditions shall be established by the Supervisory Board. Litoral Centro Motorway (A17) 27 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 • 01 PRESENTATION For more detailed information you should consult the chapter Pursuant to the model of governance adopted in BRISA, the “Corporate Governance Report” in Brisa’s Report and Accounts for Chairman of the Board of Directors is also the Chairman of the 2010. Executive Committee. ANNUAL REPORT 2010 Model of corporate governance In this context, two other committees were set up within the Board of Directors that have exclusively non-executive directors Brisa considers that, in view of the business it undertakes, the as members, the main responsibilities of the former being the system that it has adopted is the most appropriate for providing monitoring and supervision of affairs relating to corporate efficient and transparent corporate governance in order to create governance and to sustainability, while the latter is responsible value for all shareholders. for functions relating to the monitoring of issues relating to the internal audit and risk management. Brisa’s share capital is represented by 600 million shares of 1 Euro each, all of which are listed on the Stock Exchange and with no The Corporate Reorganization process, concluded in 2010, made difference in categories of shares or of rights, regardless of the some of the business areas autonomous and led to a new structure number of shares that each shareholder may hold. Each share of the Group. In this regard, the following powers, among others, shall correspond to one vote. Brisa was in fact, the first company are reserved for the Board of Directors: to establish the principle of one share one vote, having at the same time abolished any restrictions to the free exercise of voting. i) Transactions, including any commitment to conclude such transactions, likely to result in the transfer or encumbrance There are no statutory rules establishing any constitutive or of any shares held by the Company in any of its subsidiaries decision-making quorum, nor any limitations on the exercise of which, directly or indirectly, operates as concessionaire of the postal voting, for which there is a form available on Brisa’s website concession the bases of which were approved by Decree-law (www.brisa.pt) for this purpose. This site is an excellent channel 247-C/2008, of 30 December (or any amendment thereto in the relationship between the Company and its shareholders, which includes in its object at least the motorways specified providing a platform that allows voting rights to be exercised therein) (the “Main Concession”); online. This channel also contains the minutes of Brisa’s General Meetings. ii) Contracts, agreements or any transactions resulting, directly or indirectly, in the transfer or encumbrance of the Main As approved by its shareholders, Brisa adopted the model of Concession, including as result of internal reorganizations of governance of a Board of Directors and an Audit Board. In this way, the corporate group controlled by the Company; executive and supervisory functions are thus clearly distinct, given that they are attributed to different bodies. In this framework, with iii) Contracts, agreements or any transactions resulting, directly regard to of the Board of Directors, there is a rule of solidarity and or indirectly, in a dilution of the Company’s financial holding mutual responsibility, without exception, between all members. in the Main Concession, including as result of the issuing of shares or other convertible securities into shares representing However, and notwithstanding this regime of solidarity, there is clear the share capital of the Company and/or any subsidiary of the advantage in having management bodies composed of executive Company; and non-executive members, since the latter can contribute with a broader and less compromised vision of day-to-day affairs and are iv) Payment of funds to Brisa by any of the Concession Companies, therefore in a privileged position to contribute in a constructive way whether via distributions or loans or via proposals of payment to a strategic analysis and follow-up of the companies’ businesses, of such distributions or loans, whenever the amount to be identifying any inefficiency, suggesting changes and improvements, paid accounts for less than 80% (eighty percent) of the funds or even alternative solutions. available in the balance sheet of Brisa – Concessão Rodoviária, S.A. (taking into account relevant legal restrictions as well as The Board of Directors comprises 13 members. Five of these are existing restrictions, including those stemming from loans on the Executive Committee and eight are non-executive. Among obtained with third parties); the non-executive members, four are independent and are not associated to any of the specific interest groups within the v) Changes to the articles of association or internal regulations Company. of the corporate bodies of any of the Concession Companies. The Board of Directors meets at least once each quarter, with the executive management of the company falling to the Executive Committee. 28 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 • 01 PRESENTATION VASCO PEDRO ROCHA JOÃO AZEVEDO JOÃO ANTÓNIO DE MELLO E MELO COUTINHO BENTO DE SOUSA ANTÓNIO ANTÓNIO SALVADOR LUÍS TELLES RUI DINIZ JOÃO VIEIRA MARTIN REY DANIEL DE SOUSA NOGUEIRA LEITE ALEMANY MÁS DE ABREU DE ALMEIDA ALEXANDRE AMARAL 29 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 • 01 PRESENTATION INDIVIDUAL REMUNERATION EXECUTIVE MEMBERS NAME FIXED REM VARIABLE REM BENEFIT PLAN TOTAL Vasco Maria Guimarães José de Mello 423,331.42 * 59,850.00 483,181.42 João Pedro Stilwell Rocha e Melo 394,108.55 210,000.00 57,750.00 661,858.55 João Pedro Ribeiro de Azevedo Coutinho 366,258.16 185,000.00 51,450.02 602,708.18 João Afonso Ramalho Sopas Pereira Bento 380,799.84 157,347.00 51,450.02 589,596.86 António José Lopes Nunes de Sousa 361,598.03 185,000.00 51,450.02 598,048.05 TOTAL 1,926,096.00 737,347.00 271,950.06 2,935,393.06 * No variable remuneration has been attributed to the Chirman of the Board of Directors, at is own request, as presented to the Remuneration Committee. NON EXECUTIVE MEMBERS name fixed remuneration antónio josé fernandes de sousa 99,727.00 antónio nogueira leite 92,607.24 joão vieira de almeida 85,483.44 luís manuel de carvalho telles de abreu 92,607.24 martin wolfgang johannes rey 71,236.32 Pedro jorge bordalo silva 63,530.27 salvador alemany más 71,236.32 Rui alexandre pires diniz 73,017.71 TOTAL 649,445.54 30 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 • 01 PRESENTATION Internal Notification of Following the appointment of the Ethics Ombudsman Brisa carried Irregularities out a broad-based training programme, covering 2 434 Employees of the Group, in order to explain and clarify any doubts concerning In 2009, the creation of a system for the internal notification of the Code of Ethics and its application and the operation of the PRINCIPAL 6 irregularities was approved. This decision was intended to create irregularities notification system. PRINCIPAL 10 a system under the supervision of the Corporate Governance and Sustainability Steering Committee that would make it possible for Relations with Investors all employees to freely and conscientiously expose any violation of ethical and legal nature occurring within the company. This initiative Brisa’s relationship with its shareholders and investors is based on expresses the company’s strong commitment to conducting its transparency, with s major component of communication through business in compliance with the law and the principles laid down multiple channels set up for the purpose. in its Code of Ethics, contributing moreover to the early detection of any irregular situation. The main markets visited: United Kingdom, United States of America, France and Spain. Under the terms of the approved regulations in the Code of Ethics (available at www.brisa.pt) a list of dedicated addresses was created on the intranet and on the company’s site, allowing 2008 2009 2010 the disclosure of any irregularity, via e-mail, fax or mail, with absolute confidentiality. The processing of this information and Investors Visited 240 231 229 conducting of the respective proceedings is the responsibility of Bilateral meetings 190 107 142 an Ethics Ombudsman, presently Dr. Daniel Pacheco Amaral, who Group meetings 15 11 17 has been provided with all necessary resources to fulfil his duties Tele-conferences 45 36 82 in an effective and independent manner. The Ethics Ombudsman Communiqués 56 45 69 can consult all documentation and request all the services and information s/he considers pertinent. Without prejudice to any situation s/he may deem serious or urgent, the Ombudsman will provide a report on his/her activity to the Sustainability and Corporate Governance Committee on a quarterly basis, including recommendations suggested for each case completed during that quarter. 083 31 RELATÓRIO DE SUSTENTABILIDADE 2010 • 02 Vectors of Sustainability 002 Vectors of Sustainability 32 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 • 02 Vectors of Sustainability The 5 vectors of sustainability identified in the chapter Vision and Strategy, reflect the material issues for Brisa, which have the greatest impact on the organization and on the communities where it operates. These topics are dealt with in the following chapters, focussing on the actions undertaken during 2010. SUSTAINABLE MOBILITY Policy MATERIAL TOPICS COURSES OF ACTION Safety First Programme Road safety Investment in infrastructure Monitoring of road accidents Customer information To promote sustainable mobility Payment systems Customer service Vehicle inspection VIA VERDE ON SCUT Operational Coordination Centre Active Traffic Management Headway Project 72,895 154,477 105,974 CHILDREN ON SAFETY FIRST PROGRAMME since 2006 received calls on the blue line road assistance interventions This vector, which in previous years was simply called Road Safety Some of the main steps it has taken are the improvement and or Customer Service, has a wider approach in this Report that reinforcement works on some motorways. These investments aim better reflects the expectations of the customer and of the local to improve driving conditions with the widening of traffic lanes and communities: a service provided with quality, safety, comfort and the installation and improvement of the performance conditions of fluidity of traffic that contributes towards local development and road signage. mobility and accessibility solutions. Safety First Programme Promoting sustainable mobility is to rise to the challenge of these expectations, in an approach that brings benefits for the Company One of Brisa’s top priorities in its business is the prevention of and creates competitive advantages for it. traffic accidents and helping to reduce their consequences. This is what led companies to launch the “Safety First” programme, which ROAD SAFETY consists of safety campaigns aimed at children. primeiro-a-segurança.com Safety is one of the main attributes that distinguishes motorways The “Safety First” programme started in 2005 and has reached more from the other categories of road infrastructures. The steps that than 70 thousand primary and secondary school students through operators take to foment better safety levels for drivers ranges from road safety awareness initiatives including information on traffic the active management of traffic to information and awareness signs and rules and the responsible behaviour of adults relating to initiatives. the consumption of alcohol, the use of the safety belt or driving too fast. The programme gives students the chance to visit one of the Brisa provides ongoing support for road safety campaigns and 14 Operational Centres in the Brisa network, from the North to the regularly steps up the safety characteristics of its network. South of the Country, explaining to them the effort that the Group is making to improve safety conditions. The site www.primeiro-aOne of the main programmes in this area is the “Safety First” segurança.com provides extra support for the programme, giving programme, which Brisa has supported since 2005. This programme students, teachers, parents and guardians access to a wide range of is divided into two components, One that aims to communicate information related with road safety, including some pedagogical with drivers through holding awareness campaigns; the other, material. aimed at primary school students aged 6-10 years old, through educational programmes. 33 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 • 02 Vectors of Sustainability The programme was suspended in 2009 for reasons related with Swine Flu and the economic crisis, which meant that schools could no longer bear the cost of transporting their students to the number of Students Operational Centres, and so Brisa felt it needed to redesign the programme so that it could again maintain contact with the school 21 050 public during 2010. 19 662 16 807 The flow of visits was therefore reversed meaning that the Safety First team started to go to the schools, taking panels that simulate the assistance truck with all of its equipment. 10 119 In the second half of 2010, 120 visits were made to schools, 5 257 reaching 5,257 students and 255 teachers. 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 safety first (2006-2010) 663 school visits 72,895 students 34,939 teachers Brisinha Campaign, Carcavelos 34 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 • 02 Vectors of Sustainability ROAD ACCIDENTS The number of road accidents is the main road safety indicator and, as such, it is a central issue in Brisa’s business. The systematic ROAD ACCIDENT RATE monitoring of road accident history and the precise evaluation of its trends are of vital importance as an indicator of the organization’s 54.16 55 impact on society and its performance. 47.89 50 46.11 44.18 44.02 In the previous year’s sustainability report, Brisa communicated a 45 set of 8 indicators associated to road accidents, which are published 40 again this year complete with a 5 year history. The analysis of this 35 31.54 data, alongside information from meteorological records, gives us 30 an interpretation of their evolution and the consequent assessment 24.13 25 of their management. 20 15.79 Between 2005 and 2010 we continue to see an cumulative 15 reduction in the road accident rate of 4.5%. 10 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 Particularly in the Brisa road concession there was a slight increase BCR BRISAL of 0.3% in the number of accidents compared with the previous year. The 3.0% increase in the road accident rate is due to the reduction in circulation of around 2.6% and to the poor weather conditions. A detailed analysis by quarter helped us to conclude that there was a worsening in the road accident rate in the 1st quarter of the year, which was when we suffered the worst weather conditions. ROAD ACCIDENT DEATHS* 45 road accident indicators (SCOPE: BCR) 41 41 40 37 ROAD ACCIDENT RATE +3.0% ROAD ACCIDENT DEATH RATE +11% SEVERE INJURY ACCIDENT RATE +39.6% LIGHT INJURY ACCIDENT RATE -0.3% ROAD ACCIDENT INDEX +2.0% DEATH RATE +24.7% SEVERE INJURY RATE +20.1% 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 LIGHT INJURY RATE +1.9% In the Brisal concession, the positive trend in road safety was reinforced this year by the drop in all the road accident indicators, namely those related with the gravity of the accidents where there was a decrease of 100% in the rate of accidents involving death SEVERE INJURY and serious injury, of 37.5% in the rate of accidents with minor injuries and of 42.3% in the rate of accidents with victims. In this ACCIDENTS* year and in absolute numbers, the accident history shows a lack 92 of accidents involving death and serious injury, and 15 accidents 80 87 with minor injuries. In the last 3 years, the downwards trend in 74 the rate of road accidents has remained steady, even though total 64 circulation in the network has increased by around 69%. IMPROVEMENT IN INFRASTRUCTURES Periodic inspections were made on the infrastructures in 2010. One of the main features was the development of a mobile platform to be used in the activity of inspecting the vertical signposting in order to record the retroreflection values of the screens and the state of conservation indicators, which after being entered into 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 the Signalling Equipment Management and Maintenance system (SGMS) will assist in the planning of its conservation. 35 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 • 02 Vectors of Sustainability Protection devices for motorcycle riders (DPM) were installed in the LIGHT INJURY Douro Litoral concession, in the zones where these were necessary and pursuant to legislation in force. ACCIDENTS* Brisa also performed improvement and reinforcement works on some motorways to improve circulation conditions, widening a 1,190 number of lanes and installing and improving the road signage. 1,158 1,159 CUSTOMER SERVICE 1,125 CUSTOMER INFORMATION 1,064 Customer information is fundamental for the Brisa Group and so we value all contributions that might improve safety, circulation conditions and comfort on our motorways. In this regard, customers have a wide range of contact resources available to them, from 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 the shops, the website, e-mail, letters, faxes and the RSVP form, available at the toll booths. the Client Service Division of Brisa O&M handled around 23 thousand claims in 2010. Blue Number call line – 808 508 508 The cheap rate Assistance and Information Blue Number (Número Azul) is a front-line instrument for communication between DEATHS* customers and Brisa. Besides being a direct channel of information with the customer on traffic conditions, it may also be used to request assistance 24 hours a day, 365 days a year. It also centralises 1,323 all information from the network of motorways of Brisa, Brisal and Douro Litoral concessionaires and of Baixo Tejo and Litoral Oeste 1,279 sub-concessionaires. 154,477 calls were taken throughout 2010. 1,260 1,252 Via Verde Customer Help Line – 707 500 900 1,183 The Via Verde customer help line is a front-end channel in the communication with all clients and potential clients. It operates on business days from 8:30 a.m. to 8:30 p.m. to clarify customers’ doubts and to solve questions related to the Via Verde payment system. 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 Brisa website Brisa’s website displays information on the company and its motorway network, including real time traffic information with images, a description of the network of motorways operated by Brisa and respective toll rates and services available throughout the network. TOTAL ACCIDENTS* On average the site was viewed 3,089 times per day, which corresponds to 674,167 visitors and 1,130,394 entries during 2010. 5,117 4,315 4,219 4,232 4,046 Brisa SITE 2009 2010 Number of visits 655,439 1 130,394 Av. no. of visits per day 1,791 3,089 % of return (Frequent visitors) 40.36 58.24 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 * Scope BCR 36 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 • 02 Vectors of Sustainability Viaverde website CUSTOMER SATISFACTION The Via Verde website provides information on Via Verde attendance Customer satisfaction surveys are carried out on a monthly basis, posts and available services and, within the area reserved for aimed at implementing measures to improve the service provided customers, they can consult to all the data relating to their personal to customers. In 2010 the global level of customer satisfaction (on Via Verde identifier and they can manage their Via Verde contract a scale of 1 to 4) for each audited service was again clearly positive: (Via Verde Online). › Local-rate Call Line (Blue Number) for Assistance and Info: 3.62 Radio › Road Assistance: 3.63 › Shops (only from January to August 2010): 3.25 Brisa Reporter – a partnership with TSF (a leading urban traffic radio station) consisting of information given directly from Brisa’s PAYMENT SYSTEMS Operational Coordination Centre, twice a day at 7:50 am and 6:50 pm. Payment systems are a strategic area in service efficiency and quality. Television In 2010, a new payment system called Via Manual SemiBrisa provides real time traffic images to main national TV stations automática (VMSA) (semi automatic manual lane) started to be through Brisa’s own video camera circuits. implemented in the Brisa Concession on the motorways A17 in the Brisal concession and on the A15 in the Auto-estradas do Atlântico Shops concession. During this period, 249 devices were installed of a total of 304 manual lanes available. In 2010, Brisa’s service was available through 11 shops located in the main urban centres. These shops provide a full service covering The success of this automatic payment equipment, operational 24 all of the networks operated by Brisa O&M and the Via Verde hours a day without the need for local intervention, has validated service, based on the one-stop-shop concept, solving any issue that our commitment to innovation. This places Brisa at the technological may arise in one go. During 2010, these shops attended 546 711 forefront of toll payments. customers. SERVICE AREAS There are 27 Service Areas along the motorway networks operated transactions by by Brisa O&M, located at an average distance of 40 km from each other. means of payment The management and maintenance of the service areas fall to the oil concessionaires, which in their turn may sub-contract the direct and specific management of certain services to other partners, always under Brisa’s supervision and approval. 61% Via verde Although the operation of service areas is the responsibility of oil 16% Bank companies, Brisa pays close attention to ensure that this obligation Cards is met, periodically and consistently reviewing the running 23% Cash conditions of infrastructures and service levels. In this regard an external company is hired to carry out Food Quality and Hygiene audits and Mystery Customer visits. The management of the Service Areas therefore pays an increasingly sharper focus on the quality of the service provided and on customer satisfaction. In 2010 Service Areas met in average 84% of criteria subject to evaluation, which is 6% more than last year. Based on these results, transactions per type Brisa set up a Service Quality Prize to reward performance and of toll system customer service quality for each Service Area of the network and encouraging their continuous improvement. Besides service quality evaluations, internal inspections are 126,362,861 Via verde performed on a regular basis to ensure the quality of infrastructures and services. 7,917,078 Semi automatic Manual Lane 74,617,394 Via Manual with toll booth operator 37 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 • 02 Vectors of Sustainability Operational Coordination Center, Carcavelos Active Traffic Management Centralised Management A distance of 13,311,898 km was travelled in the surveillance and Located in Carcavelos, on the campus of the Brisa Group’s head patrol activity of the networks under concession in 2010, which office, the Operational Coordination Centre (OCC) centralises corresponded to an average daily distance of 36,471 km. 105,974 emergency and patrolling operations, providing protection interventions were performed, with the following breakdown: and information to road users. This support is provided in close collaboration with the Operational Centres, distributed throughout the network of motorways of the Brisa, Brisal and Douro Litoral concessions and of the Baixo Tejo and Litoral Oeste subTotal Interventions 2010 concessions. Assistance 34,374 Breakdowns 9,992 The OCC coordinates the necessary resources for active traffic Protection 48,886 management, including assistance to road users and surveillance of traffic conditions. The centre is also prepared to extend the Accidents 11,870 provision of these services to future motorway networks. All Towing 852 OCC’s activities are backed by road telematic equipment deployed Total 105,974 throughout the network. 38 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 • 02 Vectors of Sustainability Today, there are around 200 variable message panels (VMPs), providing real time information to road users. Around 550 video cameras cover nearly 80% of the Brisa network. There are 1,271 SOS booths deployed throughout the network so that road users may request assistance when needed. The company also has 56 meteorological stations to assess weather conditions. With the means described above, Brisa O&M can collect all the information required for its operation, with internal resources accounting for 88% of all the information arriving to the OCC. The Centre has access to a database of all occurrences in the network, which allows the statistical processing and analysis of relevant operational data. It also provides data for building up management indicators, used to continuously improve the system. information conveyed by internal means Brisa Vehicle 53% Local-rate Call Line 13% Telematic 9% S.O.S. Booth 6% Other means 7% Total 88% Via Verde on SCUT roads Tolls were introduced on highways without cost for the user (SCUT) SCUT roads implied the possibility of customers requesting payment in 2010, with Via Verde being the preferred payment method of exemptions and discounts, which led to longer service times in the drivers. shops. The former SCUT roads of the Costa de Prata, Greater Porto and During this process, the Via Verde stepped up its level of Norte Litoral were the first motorways to be tolled. The fact that communication, informing customers of all of the different forms the process did not contemplate the physical collection of the toll of contact available and reinforcing the alternative of its site for payment meant that thousands of drivers signed up for Via Verde. handling requests for payment exemptions and discounts, allowing drivers to present their documentation in a period of 60 days. In September 2010, more than thirty thousand drivers had started the pre-reservation process, with the State earmarking the 15th of Between the shops and online, the Via Verde registered the sale of October as the date for the start of toll payment on SCUT roads. around 240 thousand new identifiers and around 191 thousand requests for payment exemptions and discounts. The new generation To meet the increasing demand, the Via Verde reinforced its staff in of devices, providing faster data transmission and storage, were sold its shops in the North of the Country, also opening three temporary by the company at a lower cost than in the previous contracts (27 service points in Ponte de Lima, Maia and Mealhada and also Euros). For customers who chose to use the electronic statement, allowing the whole process of becoming a member to be performed the price was even lower (25 Euros). through the site at www.viaverde.pt. Brisa also joined forces with the CTT (National Post Office) so that future customers could go The SCUT roads in the Norte Litoral, Greater Porto and Costa de to any post office to formalise their membership of the Viva Verde. Prata began electronic payment collection on the 15th of October 2010, but the process will only be concluded on the 15th of April Even with all of these alternatives, the number of people flocking 2011, the date set for the introduction of tolls on the SCUT roads in to the Via Verde shops surpassed all expectations, requiring their the Interior Norte, Beira Litoral, Beira Alta, Beira Interior and Algarve. day-to-day management to be stepped up, which proved to be an important test of the capacity of the company’s service. The whole process with the SCUT in the North enabled Via Verde to acquire experience, draw conclusions and adapt its operation to Besides joining the Via Verde, the process of introducing tolls on better cater for the new stage of tolls. 39 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 • 02 Vectors of Sustainability THE ENVIRONMENT PRINCiple 7 PRINCiple 8 Policy Key topics COURSES OF ACTION PRINCiple 9 Environmental Management System Eco-efficiency and Eco-efficiency indicator Environmental Management Environmental objectives 2010-2012 Biodiversity Brisa Biodiversity Programme Declaration on Environmental Policy M4D Project Declaration on Biodiversity Policy Eco-Driving Project Portugal Climate change NWPY Solar Project Holland Project Masters and other studies -22.5% -21.2% -10.9% ghg emissions water consumption electricity consumption Brisa has come a long way in the environmental area. Over more Besides the operational topics, more directly related with the activity, than two decades it has accumulated a history of exercising major biodiversity and climate change were identified by Brisa and by its environmental concern. The growing importance of this topic was stakeholders as other priority issues for which specific initiatives accompanied by the company’s good practices in the various aspects have been developed which go well beyond the minimum legal of its activity: Design, Construction and Operation. requirements. Today, Brisa use an integrated approach through its Environmental Management System and its Environmental Policy, formalised in 2003. BRISA.PT 1. Coordination of environmental studies/ ›› Specific environmental criteria in the ›› Execution of the General Monitoring project building contracts Environmental Plans 2. Minimization measures: ›› Environmental training ›› Fauna monitoring ›› Acoustic protection ›› Implementation of the Environmental ›› Flora monitoring: ›› Treatment systems Management System ›› Cleanup interventions ›› Landscaping ›› Environmental follow-up by Brisa and ›› Growth and implantation control of ›› Ecological passages Contractor’s teams arboreous and shrubby species 3. Environmental monitoring: ›› Environmental monitoring ›› Growth control of infestant and ›› Superficial waters for drained water ›› Archealogical invasive species ›› Subterranean waters ›› Follow-up ›› Actions for the prevention of forest ›› Noise ›› Recovering and reintegration of every fires propagation ›› Fauna affected area ›› Acoustic barriers installation ›› Flora ›› Environmental auditing ›› Landscape integration projects 4. Environmental management plan ›› Acoustic barriers installation 5. Stakeholder dialogue 6. Integration of minimization measures in the project 40 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 • 02 Vectors of Sustainability ECO-EFFICIENCY record this consumption, so as to more easily calculate and analyse its evolution and variations compared with previous periods; Supported by its Environmental Management System, well described in previous years’ reports, Brisa identified eco-efficiency ii) Training involving all Operational Managers; as a priority area for action, defining quantitative objectives for 5 fundamental indicators: consumption of water, electricity and fuel, iii) Setting standards of discipline in the use of water, by source, production of waste and emissions. namely restricted access to taps on the outside of the buildings, control of water consumption by external suppliers, record of consumption in the operation to wash tolls, correction of the consumption for other purposes of the water from bore-holes sized and licensed exclusively for supplying the irrigation networks; Environmental targets 2010 2012 iv) Start of the inventory and verification of water supply equipment (taps, flushing cisterns, etc), for possible replacement by other equipment that enables reductions in the volume of water target evolution consumed; indicator 2012 2009 2010 Electricity consumption -10% -10.9% v) Monitoring and recording of the programming of the irrigation Fuel consumption -3% +2.8% systems. Water Consumption -3% -21.2% Waste -5% +88.3% GHG Emissions * -6% -22.5% * Greenhouse Gas Emissions Water Consumption (m3) Water consumption 292,607 300,000 On a planet that has 75% of its surface covered in water, the 236,776 consumption of this apparently inexhaustible resource nevertheless 250,000 requires more efficient and sustained management. 186,544 200,000 Fresh water represents less than 3% of the liquid mass of the planet 150,000 and only around 1/3 of that is accessible. As such, this resource is 100,000 scarce and its management is essential when we wish to contribute towards the global objective of sustainable development. 50,000 0 In the Brisa Group water is consumed in a variety of ways, namely: 2008 2009 2010 i) Domestic consumption (toilets, pantries, kitchens and canteens, Public Supply Own collections cleaning of the installations); ii) Consumption in the treatment of run-off water from the platform Water Consumption (m3) 2008 2009 2010 and in laboratories (preparation of reagents and performing Public Supply 152,153 117,485 111,056 laboratory tests); Own collections 121,372 119,291 75,488 iii) Washing of vehicles; TOTAL 292,607 236,776 186,544 iv) Washing of road surfaces (tolls, zones where accidents occur and where works are under way); Actions to programme/develop by the end of the 2010-2012 period: v) Irrigation; i) Development of a pilot project to assess the cost/benefit of the replacement of existing equipment by other equipment that will vi) Consumption in the emergency network. help to reduce domestic consumption, such as cisterns with dual flush buttons or water-saving taps; Special concern was given in 2010 to start a new approach to water management, to drive the process of efficiency and ensure that the ii) Improvement in the water efficiency of vehicle and road surface objective set for the three year period is met. Special focus was washing; also placed on training and awareness of the importance of the management of this resource. iii) Development of a pilot project to control the irrigation systems by gauging the humidity of the soil; The actions and projects developed in 2010 included: iv) Draw up a proposal to change aspersion irrigation systems i) Clarification of the procedures used to report on the consumption with localised irrigation and subsequent alteration of pre-existing of water and the introduction of improvements in the model used to vegetal structures; 41 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 • 02 Vectors of Sustainability v) Re-sizing of some irrigated zones, including the deactivation of that this deterioration was not due to less efficiency by Brisa, small spaces in the gardens in the Brisa Group’s Head Office and in but principally due to the unforseeability of factors associated to the Operational Centres; the operational activity of the infrastructure which is not directly controlled by Brisa. vi) Development of a pilot project to use rain water to supply the buildings during the period when there is rainfall. Around 94% of the total waste produced comes from the operational activity, and specifically from accidents and the waste Production of Waste generated by customers on their journeys on the road network. Most of this, around 78.4%, relates to iron and steel scrap (safety Decree Law 178/2006 of 7 September (Framework Law on Waste), barriers, attenuators etc.) and 3.74% to solid urban waste and defines waste as any substance or object that its owner disposes of similar, abandoned by drivers. or has the intention or obligation of disposing of. So, only around 6% of the waste generated in the organization The need to minimise the production of waste and to ensure comes under the company’s direct control as the production of that it is sustainably managed has been turning into an issue of the remaining waste depends on the use of the infrastructures by citizenship. With regard to the costs inherent in waste management, customers. the growing affirmation of the polluter-payer principle makes the accountability of the producers of consumer goods and the With regard to the targets and objectives defined by the regulatory producers or owners of waste a priority. body and the European Union, in 2010 around 93% of our waste was sent for recycling and 7% for deposit. The waste produced in the Brisa Group comes from: i) The operation of its buildings; ii) The operation of its infrastructures; Waste (ton)* iii) The laboratories; iv) The replacement/repair of the electronic toll equipment (Via 2,500 Verde Portugal identifiers). 1,832 2,000 1,770 Waste from the operation of the buildings is fundamentally 1,500 generated by the employees of the Group companies, and overall 973 falls into the category of solid urban waste (SUW). The collection 1,000 and treatment of such waste is the responsibility of the local authorities or of the municipal companies created for the purpose. 500 Occasionally other types of waste may be produced that do not come within the category of SUW, namely waste from electrical 0 2008 2009 2010 and electronic equipment (such as lighting, computer equipment, copying equipment, refrigeration equipment, etc.), ink cartridges, toners, batteries and waste from construction and demolition waste per type (ton) 2008 2009 2010 relating to repairs on and alterations to the buildings. In these hazardous 1 21 7 cases the disposal of the waste is handled by companies licensed non hazardous 1,769 945 1,825 for the purpose. Waste is produced in the company’s infrastructures resulting waste per destination (ton) 2008 2009 2010 from repair, maintenance or improvement activities, namely disposal 162 107 121 electrical and electronic equipment, batteries and construction recovery 1,608 866 1,711 and demolition waste, besides that which is produced by the users who travel on the road infrastructures and which is found there. * Scope without AEA This waste is disposed of under service provision contracts with companies licensed for the purpose. Fuel Consumption The Group’s laboratories associated to construction activities produce waste resulting from the laboratory tests carried out there, In 2010 fuel consumption increased by 2.8%. This increase was with a prevalence of hazardous waste arising from the chemical due to two reasons of a different nature: an effective increase in reagents used. the number of fleet vehicles of around 4.1%, and an increase in the operation compared to the previous year. This evolution does not Via Verde Portugal is an eco-partner of the waste batteries and reflect the real efficiency in fuel use, as it does not contemplate the accumulators management entity, which handles the collection and number of kms travelled. recycling of the batteries of the identifiers that are replaced. Other waste arising from replacements/repairs is disposed of through In this regard, Brisa is developing a new indicator that will take companies licensed for the purpose. the number of kms travelled into account when considering the fuel spent, which will produce an effective measure of the energy There was an 88.3% increase in waste produced in 2010 compared efficiency of the Group’s motor fleet. with 2009. A detailed analysis of the data allows us to conclude 42 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 • 02 Vectors of Sustainability Brisa Operação e Manutenção started the process of Eco-driving Electricity Consumption training courses in the assistance vehicles. This will be an ongoing process that will be carried out by the “Brisa Driving Academy”, with The consumption of electricity represents around 54% of Brisa’s total the objective of training all users of the Group’s vehicles in the areas energy consumption. Almost half of this consumption is used in the of Eco-driving. network lighting, a component that has been the subject of detailed study. Another project that is on a scoping phase is the acquisition of electric vehicles, which will place Brisa at the forefront of the process One of main projects developed in 2010 was the study of the of vehicle electrification. Brisa is committed to the mobiE project to efficiency of the lighting network. install charging points for electric vehicles, and intends to implement two private charging points in its Head Office installations. During 2009 this project was at the testing stage. Concrete measures were implemented in 2010, namely: i Adjustment of the astronomic clocks in accordance with the timing of the solar cycle; Fuel consumption (GJ) ii) Correction of dimmers in the network adjusting them to the real needs; 120,000 105,643 iii) Alteration of lighting powers from 400W to 250W and, in some 100,000 cases, from 250W to 150W, when appropriate. 101,671 80,000 The saving created by the measures of this project in 2010 amounted 98,891 to 11,372GJ. 60,000 40,000 The objective of these interventions is to optimise electricity use 20,000 while maintaining all safety and service levels. 0 2008 2009 2010 Besides the saving recorded on an operational level in BOM, all the other affiliates also recorded reductions in their electricity Diesel Gas consumption, which led to an overall reduction of around 10.9% in the Group’s electricity consumption. Fuel (GJ) 2008 2009 2010 Emissions Diesel 103,668 97,683 101,158 The Brisa Group’s emissions include carbon dioxide (CO2), methane Gas 1,975 1,208 513 (CH4) and nitrous oxide (N2O). These gases are directly caused by TOTAL 105,643 98,891 101,671 the burning of fossil fuels in the journeys of the Brisa Group’s fleet of vehicles and indirectly by electricity consumption. Eco-efficiency indicator Brisa’s role as the promoter of sustainable development has led The measurement of the value of the product or service generated by to the adoption of the concept of eco-efficiency as a performance the company is defined by the dimension of its operational network. assessment indicator of the organization. Measuring performance both from an economic and environmental perspective helps us Eco-efficiency = km operated to really see the organization’s level of efficiency in creating value Electricity consumption compared with the environmental impact caused by its activity. Quantity of waste Water consumption Eco-efficiency = Value of the product or service GHG emissions Environmental Influence 24.2% 25 The path taken by Brisa over recent years in order to precisely, 20 comprehensively and reliably monitor key indicators in the area of 15 the environment helps to produce an effective measurement of the 10 6.7% company’s environmental impact in five critical areas: water and 3.7% 5 energy consumption, the production of waste and GHG emissions. 0 2008 2009 2010 43 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 • 02 Vectors of Sustainability Electricity GHG Emissions [tCO2eq] consumption (gj) 160,000 142,340 30,000 132,863 126,780 140,000 25,000 23,809 120,000 21,962 18,443 20,000 100,000 80,000 15,000 60,000 10,000 40,000 5,000 20,000 0 0 2008 2009 2010 2008 2009 2010 DiRect INDIRECT In 2010 a reduction was achieved compared with 2009, of around corporate world by carrying out studies and initiatives that can 22.5% of emissions of greenhouse gases, mainly attributable to the be applied in the company’s activity; reduction in electricity consumption. iii) To implement regular and transparent reporting of the Group’s The reduction in greenhouse gas emissions in the national electricity performance in terms of biodiversity, verified by independent grid also helped significantly towards this result. entities, as well as developing internal and external communication channels that reflect the real activity of the company in this BIODIVERSITY matter, in order to make stakeholders aware and involve them in the adoption of the best environmental management practices. Biodiversity is identified in Brisa’s Declaration on Environmental Policy as a strategic area of its activity in terms of environmental Besides the activities directly related with its activity, described in management. Brisa defined the objective of having a an overall Indicators EN11-15 of the GRI Table of this report, Brisa voluntarily positive balance of its impact on biodiversity. To do so, it assumed joined the Business & Biodiversity initiative in 2007. the following commitments: Business & Biodiversity i) To develop biodiversity management capacity in the design, construction and operation stages of motorways, and to include Brisa Programme for Biodiversity the assessment of its impact on biodiversity, aimed at minimising the negative impacts arising from its activity, enhancing positive With regard to projects to restore and protect habitats, arising impacts and compensating inevitable impacts; from partnerships with third parties, Brisa, aware of the impact of its activity on biodiversity, promotes voluntary actions related ii) To foment knowledge about biodiversity and to strengthen with environmental responsibility. These actions are related with collaboration between the academic-scientific sector and the projects that come under the Business & Biodiversity Protocol. EVOA Project, Lezíria 44 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 • 02 Vectors of Sustainability 5 strategic partnerships have been established in the area of The following activities were undertaken in 2010: biodiversity under this initiative. The projects with the Faculty of Science of the Universidade de Lisboa (FCUL) and with the BCSD i) Elaboration of pedagogical materials Portugal, described in previous years, are now concluded. The other ii) Conservation work in favour of biodiversity 3 protocols are still active. iii) Finalisation of physical interventions iv) Preparation and installation of Brisa signage APENA Protocol Natural Engineering Brisa Prize Companhia das Lezírias Protocol In 2010, held the biennial prize to reward Natural Engineering This Protocol established a long term partnership, aimed at projects in the area of earth and embankment engineering works, developing two projects: EVOA and Cork Oak Tree Biodiversity biological integration works and the prevention or compensation Project. of ecological impacts. The Portuguese Association for Natural Engineering (APENA) manages the process of regulation and EVOA Project – Bird Watching and Interpretation Centre technical assessment of the prize. The following activities were developed under this initiative in 2010: The EVOA Project aims to create habitats that are spread out and equipped with infrastructures to observe as many birds as possible. i) Publicising of the Prize – campaign with posters, leaflets and a The space, belonging to Companhia das Lezírias, will be articulated banner on the websites of the universities in Portugal; with an interpretation centre, outside of the most sensitive zones, ii) Constitution of the Jury; with the pedagogical function of raising environmental awareness iii) Meetings of the Jury (22 June and 19 July); and which will cover the diverse species existing there from the iv) Assessment of the entries and selection of the winning project; point of view of ecological conditions and life cycle. v) Event to award the Brisa Natural Engineering Prize. Besides the major components of environmental awareness and Quercus Protocol leisure, the project aims to help research in to the species of Biodiversity of the International Tagus avifauna in the Tagus estuary. In the project “Biodiversity of the International Tagus”, the target The main activities developed in 2010 were: areas are the land and structures belonging to Quercus ANCN situated in the Tagus International Natural Park and, some others also i) Modelling of habitats – the lagoons that will act as the base for in the Special Protection Zone for Birds in the Tagus International, the habitats were concluded; Rio Erges and Ponsul. The project covered two fronts. The first ii) Construction of observatories; front corresponds to an area of approximately 410 hectares of the iii) Preparation of the pedagogical and communication materials Monte Barata estate located in the parishes of Malpica do Tejo and – the new logo for the project and the graphic line of the Monforte da Beira in the district of Castelo Branco. The second front permanent exhibition were approved; corresponds to around 200 hectares, covering a number of rustic iv) Opening of the open tender to construct the Interpretation buildings situated in the parish of Rosmaninhal, the municipality of Centre. Idanha-a-Nova, between the estuary of the River Fonte Santa on the east and the estuary of the River Aravil to the west. 45 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 • 02 Vectors of Sustainability Cork Oak Tree Biodiversity Project indirect, and on setting long term quantitative targets. In order to improve our knowledge of the risks and opportunities for the The Cork Oak Tree Biodiversity Project operates in a total area of organization, the company has taken part in projects and studies evoa.pt around 800 hectares belonging to the Companhia das Lezírias. on the subject of climate change, brisa.pt The project aims to increase the productivity of the cork oak trees responsabilidade climatica.net there, replacing the trees that die and making their conservation One of the main features of 2010 was Brisa’s participation in the cdproject.net compatible with the extensive pastureland for cows. The monitoring ACGE Index – Climate Responsibility in Portugal and in the Carbon of biodiversity and the effect of good practices in this area enables Disclosure Project. a large amount of applied research to be carried out. ACGE Index This project, located between Poceirão do Cunha and Malhada Climate Responsibility in Portugal Alta, contemplates the following physical interventions: The ACGE Index evaluates the performance of a number of i) Shape pruning of the natural regeneration of cork trees and every Portuguese companies from diverse business sectors, with regard tree with virgin cork that may require it; to the challenge of climate change and of a low carbon economy. ii) Removal of stone and maritime pines competing for space with This index values the existence of defined environmental objectives, cork trees; together with the commitments assumed by companies with iii) Pruning of young stone pines; regard to strategic options and real concerns with climate change, iv) Marking of cork trees to be protected and surrounding fencing; the carbon footprint and the efficient use of resources. v) Installation of individual protectors for cork trees and of fences vi) Planting of 400 hectares of biodiverse grassland. Brisa’s positioning in this ranking is in line with the growing importance paid by the company to the topic of climate change, This project is in now at an intermediate stage, with around 90% which has led to the definition of a number of environmental already executed. In 2010, the physical investments were related objectives for the 2010-2012 period. with the installation of 1 110 willow piles along 2 113 metre water line. In view of the above, the area of protected and restored In 2010 Brisa – Auto-estradas de Portugal came in 7th place in the habitats totalled 2 213 hectares in 2010. ACGE Index – Climate Responsibility in Portugal. This is only the second year in which Brisa has taken part in this index, reaching a CLIMATE CHANGE level of 70% in 2010, compared with 45.9% in 2009. Brisa is aware that the global issue of climate change indirectly Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) affects the company’s business, which will tend to have a growing impact in the mid to long term. Brisa’s participation in this initiative, in the capacity of a company consulted with public results, is a transparent form of assessment Brisa’s response has concentrated on a precise and comprehensive of the organization’s impact on climate change and of gauging the inventory of its Greenhouse Gas (GHG) emissions, both direct and risks to which it is exposed in this regard. Cork Oak Tree Biodiversity Project, Lezíria 46 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 • 02 Vectors of Sustainability HUMAN RESOURCES Policy MATERIAL TOPICS COURSES OF ACTION CODE OF ETHICS Ethics and Transparency Irregularities Notification Channel To ensure that Employees are motivated Talent Management Performance Management System and to align their productivity with the People Are Important Project performance of the company Corporate culture Staff Reception and Integration Programme Development of Competences Health and Safety Safe Tolls Project 52,450 2,682 TRANING HOURS EMPLOYEES 2,446 EMPLOYEES EVALUATED 2010 was a particularly challenging year for the Brisa Group in The creation of a second Toll Operation Centre in Maia, when this terms of the management of Human Resources. The demands of have naturally been more efficient to implement in the current OCC competitivity and efficiency led Brisa to look for alternatives that installations in Carcavelos, which already has all of the necessary would help to minimise fixed costs. The implementation of the technological infrastructures, was another important measure taken automatic toll payment Manual Lanes (Via Manual) led to very to defend jobs. This new Centre that provides remote assistance for significant gains in competitivity in toll payment, but it brought the payment collection process, helped to keep more than 50 jobs challenges with regard to the management of Human Resources. for Toll Booth Operators. Brisa made the reduction of the social impact of this measure one of the guidelines for the whole strategy of its implementation. The choice of Maia was justified by the fact that the North is simultaneously one of the regions where the installation of the People Are Important Project new equipment freed up a significant number of jobs and where unemployment rates are also highest. Although the introduction of automatic machines can possibly lead to a reduction in the number of employees allocated to Brisa also laid out a programme for employees who wanted to find the payment collection process, Brisa made the reduction of the an alternative activity to that of Toll Booth Operator. Following this social impact of this measure one of the guidelines for the whole principle the company developed three types of initiatives: implementation strategy. Based on this premise, a number of measures were adopted to defend as many jobs as possible and i) Support for people to become self-employed, through help in increase the employability of the Toll Booth Operators. the elaboration of the respective application dossiers and by increasing the amount of severance pay, between 10,000€ The Group immediately adopted the position that any departures and 15,000€, for self-employment projects approved by the from the company would be as a result of the rescission of the Employment and Vocational Training Institute (IEFP); respective employment contract by mutual agreement, meaning that each staff member could weight up his/her life options and ii) Sponsorship for training aimed at employability, bearing the cost start out projects that could be realised with the associated of specific and expensive training that is not covered by the IEFP financial incentive paid out. but is useful for a future activity; Toll Operation Centre, Maia 47 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 • 02 Vectors of Sustainability EMPLOYEES PER COMPANY 1,471 328 188 220 85 74 132 110 45 13 3 7 4 2 BRISA INOVAÇÃO M.CALL, S.A. BRISA BRISA CONCESSÃO BRISA ENGENHARIA BRISA O & M BRISAL CONTROLAUTO ITEUVE VIA VERDE AEA NWPY BPE BNA PORTUGAL AUTO-ESTRADAS RODOVIÁRIA E GESTÃO, S.A E TECNOLOGIA, S.A. iii) Outplacement service, as another important contribution for those who were not immediately able to commence an alternative activity to be able to receive assistance in the process of requalification and looking for a new job. LEAVE RATE BY MOTIVE With this set of measures Brisa helped to significantly reduce the MOTIVE Total % social impact, in line with its Social Responsibility practices, helping Cessation of FIXED TERM contracts 73 2.63% various employees to follow a new professional challenge. Cessation of tempORARY contracts 7 0.25% Short Description of Staff REDUNDANCY 3 0.11% DEATH 3 0.11% At the end of 2009 the Brisa Group had the following breakdown of Employees. Added to these are the employees seconded overseas: Initiative of the worker 21 0.76% 2 in Brazil and 2 in the USA and 5 foreign employees in the USA (1 Mutual agreement 116 4.18% in BNA and 4 in NWP). ANTICIPATED Retirement 1 0.04% OLD-AGE Retirement 2 0.07% The changes in the toll payment process led to changes in the composition of staff. In relationship to the previous year there was Total 226 8.14% EVOLUTION OF EFFECTIVE VS CONTRACTED EMPLOYEES 2,867 2,843 2,740 2,731 2,669* 2,531 2,480 2,411 2,307 2,382 433 349 336 363 258 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 TOTAL EMPLOYEES CONTRACTED EFFECTIVE * Scope does not include NWPY, BPE, BNA. 48 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 • 02 Vectors of Sustainability a reduction of 29% in the temporary employment contracts and 3% growth trend. It was within this context that some companies of in permanent contracts. the Brisa Group embarked on competence development projects in the behavioural area, with the objective of improving competitivity There were 63 admissions in 2010, of which 32% was for through the differentiation of their service. Management Staff, 19% for Inspectors, 16% for Customer Assistance, 13% for professionals in the area of works supervision The “Controlauto of Excellence” project focuses on the creation of works and 6% for electronic, toll and Call Centre areas. of value, through attracting customers and gaining their loyalty through the excellent service provided, supported by a specific The Group’s staff is made up from 72% men and 28% women. The set of rules that apply to all functions performed in the inspection average age is 41 years old. centres. In total, the project involved around 400 employees. Development of competences MCall maintained its commitment to the training of its employees as a means of providing high service levels. The mission of the “We are The Group continues to make a significant investment in the Mcall” project is to continue this policy of constant improvement. development of its employees, with 52,350 hours of training in This project’s training programme comprised three workshops: 2010, which represents an increase of around 15% compared to The first, entitled “What We Are Like and How We Want To Be”, the previous year in terms of volume of training. Training courses encouraged reflection on MCall’s current situation; The second, were distributed as shown in the table below. using the motto “Every One of Us”, was specifically geared to the impact that each MCall employee has on the quality of service Some of training courses, as detailed in the Training Plan for 2010, and on the response to issues associated to stress and emotional presented bids to the Human Potential Operational Programme control; The last workshop, called “In Team”, was created in order (HPOP). This programme aims to overcome the structural shortfall in to involve employees in a spot of teambuilding, in articulation with terms of the qualification of the Portuguese population, fomenting the promotion of social responsibility. scientific knowledge, innovation and the modernization of the productive sector, stimulating the quality of labour and promoting equal opportunities, thereby fomenting the Portuguese economy’s potential for sustained growth. The bids presented were assessed taking into account the initiatives AREAS OF TRAINING that the Brisa Group presented, relating to criteria such as corporate strategy, innovation and quality, commitment to sustainability, social responsibility, principles and values, social development, 17,0% Behavioural existence of career progression mechanisms, the company’s initiatives regarding reconciliation with staff’s personal and family 3,0% Economic-Financial life, new technologies, equal opportunities (no discrimination of 12,0% Management any kind). 4,0% Leadership and Team Management The approval of the Group’s bids and the co-financing obtained 0,1% LANGUAGES around 140,000€ reflect the application of the rules established 0,1% Quality and the by the European Social Fund and by the Portuguese State, and the Environment fulfilment of the principles of the Human Potential Operational 0,4% Safety Programme. 31,0% Technical In 2010, as has usually been the case, training was based on the 28,0% IT introduction of new processes and supported the superlative Viaduct (A2) 49 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 • 02 Vectors of Sustainability The third workshop was developed in the private social solidarity Programme (PAGE) and on other specific post-graduate courses, foundation called “O Século”, with the participants being challenged with a total of 2,522 hours, involving 13 employees. to carry out painting tasks and the recovery of a residential wing of the institution. Team skills were being developed at the same time, In the area of Safety, Hygiene and Health at Work the company’s from communication between employees, the analysis of resources concern, besides complying with applicable legislation, was – means, tools, time available, and coordination of tasks – priority shown by giving its employees a heightened awareness of the management and planning, and motivation, to the participation management and control of the risks involved in the business. and involvement of all.“Satisfaction Guaranteed” – which in Portuguese is “GPS – Garantir a Plena Satisfacção”, was the motto Training in the area of defensive driving helped to reinforce specific chosen for the training of the Road Assistance staff. The focus of competences related with the safety of the Road Assistance this project, which had around 250 participants, was employee professionals. On this course, the participants received training and customer satisfaction, starting with self-knowledge and the in maintaining a defensive attitude, preparing them to perform employee’s needs, then moving on to the dimension of customer better at driving and to address unexpected risk situations. This service, and ending up by establishing a clear connection with the competence development programme involved 4,274 hours of Road Assistance’s strategic objectives. training. The GPS programme focussed on ensuring the full satisfaction of The Health and Safety programme, aimed at toll booth staff, employees and customers, through the identification of the decisive focussed on the specific risks and conditions of each toll barrier, criteria for this function to succeed, gearing its orientation towards in order to develop competences to prevent the main risks of the the results and customer satisfaction base on self-improvement business, in particular that of crossing the traffic lanes. and the personal well-being of the Assistance staff member. The European First Aid Course focussed on making the Main Toll With regard to operations, the drive was maintained in the Booth Operators aware of three fundamental principles: Prevent, technical development of the different professional categories Alert and Aid. It aimed at giving staff general knowledge of first aid with a continuation of the investment in processes of continuous as well as learning to perform appropriate first aid techniques in improvement. the event of an emergency. The management skills development projects were attended by senior staff on the Advanced Management for Executives TRAINING PER SUB-GROUP OF EMPLOYEES Subgroup of Employees EFECTIVE TRAINING (Hrs.) HOURS/EMPLOYEE Administrative 371 3 290 8,87 Customer Assistance 326 11 610 35,61 Service Heads 45 2 300 51,11 Designers/Topographers 17 93 5,47 Managers and Other Directors 79 2 332 29,52 Electricians/Electronic technicians 53 483 9,11 Foremen/Supervisors 77 1 527 19,83 Auto Inspectors 322 7 342 22,80 Mcall Operators 34 684 20,12 Tolls 1 100 12 327 11,21 Const. Civil Prof. 47 666 14,17 Senior Technicians 197 9 506 48,25 Total 2 669 52 194 19,56 Note: training hours of curricular internships are not included (8h) and professional internships (177h). 50 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 • 02 Vectors of Sustainability Safe Tolls Project Social Action In 2010, the Internal Health and Safety at Work Service (IHSWS) In 2010 relations with the organizations of representation of the sought to establish itself and to set up functional ties with the workers was quite intense, with meetings being held to discuss departments of the companies in the Brisa Group in which various matters related with labour relations. professional risks are most significant. By means of the collective negotiation process it was, once again, As a strategy, the IHSWS supported its technical outputs with possible to reach an agreement between all parties and which specific training courses, which it presented to most of the chain of covered 83% of the employees of the Group. responsibilities. In concrete terms, Safety Procedures were drawn up that apply to the work activities of Brisa Operação e Manutenção Besides the updating of salaries, the agreement maintained the (BO&M) that are subject to the risk of being hit by a car, namely set of principles that guarantee the workers of the Group more those carried out at the toll booths. favourable treatment than that ascribed in legislation in matters such as family support. The implementation of the procedures was backed up by intense training that covered all the employees who permanently work in The Collective Work Agreement establishes a number of social such places. benefits aimed at providing protection in more delicate situations, especially in the area of protection in the event of sickness and In parallel with this, the IHSWS performs the routine activities in retirement. Particular note should be given to the award of inherent to Health and Safety at Work imposed by law or arising subsidies for children with disabilities, complementary Social from the Brisa Group’s specific policy. Security subsidies and the payment for absence due to urgent family assistance to members of the family household, up to a total In general terms, the IHSWS fulfilled the objectives proposed for it of 15 days per year that is not covered under the Social Security. in 2010. The meal subsidy also remains significantly above the value paid For 2011, besides performing the routines inherent to the IHSWS’ for the Civil Service. obligations, it is expected to finalise the Risk Charters of the employees of Brisa Informação e Tecnologia. Another objective for The Brisa Group continues to support and encourage activities of 2011 is the conception, planning and execution of safety audits on a recreational and cultural nature, subsidising initiatives promoted the toll barriers. by the Sports Group, by Brisa’s Choir and the holding of the annual Christmas party, in which presents are distributed to children aged Based on preliminary analysis and on the feedback received from up to 12 years old of all employees. the strategy used for the toll barriers, the Risk Charters of the Road Assistance employees of BO&M and of BEG’s laboratories will also In 2010 the Group was awarded the distinction of the Most Family be drawn up. Responsible Company. Brisa is the Most Family Responsible Company In 2010, Brisa was awarded the Prize “Most Family Responsible also of society, Brisa decided to participate in the study, in the sense Company “ in the category of large companies (2000-5000 that these values ​​are considered employees), a joint initiative of Deloitte and AESE Business Management School. part of their organizational strategy. Apart from sharing of best practices in the panorama of national companies, participation in This award comes as a result of the participation of the employees this survey was also an important self-diagnostic tool. on the Family Responsible Business Index, an initiative which aims to recognize the best practices of companies operating in Portugal, in the area of family policies, namely at the policy level of flexibility of time, social benefits and professional support to the employee and his family. Aware of the importance of the family in not only the company, but 51 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 • 02 Vectors of Sustainability SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT Policy MATERIAL TOPICS COURSES OF ACTION Stakeholders engagement Social Programme Impact of the Investments in AE To create value for the Company through the involvement of the stakeholders, Positive external factors Evolutionary trend of traffic positive external factors of the business Nova Via Manual Project and the contribution of the employees Show Solidarity Contribution of the Employees Learn to be an Entrepreneur 122 m Investment in motorways 11.4 m Environmental Investment 758 m Investment in local communities The economic and social development of the country is closely Nova Via Manual Project tied to the existence of transport infrastructures. Investment in these infrastructures provides advantages both for people and for In 2010 Brisa installed a semi-automatic toll payment system: the companies. Nova Via Manual, which was created from this network of innovation. The economic value generated and distributed by Brisa is beyond This model hassled to clear gains for all the parties involved through direct impacts such as job creation, provided by payments to the the creation of partnerships in projects and the promotion of the state to pay employees group and the distribution of dividends to appearance of start-ups that result from projects developed jointly. shareholders. The development of this system has led to: We highlight the investment in highways, as well as costs and i) The entrepreneurship of Portuguese companies The investments in the areas of environment, innovation and support incorporation of Portuguese technological capacity has been to local communities. maximised, keeping knowledge and production in Portugal; 52 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 • 02 Vectors of Sustainability ii) New opportunities for national companies with export capacity Brisa set a challenge for the network of national companies with export capacity, to which the Via Manual project brought Environmental new business opportunities. Investment (M€) iii) Minimization of the social impact In parallel with this, the social 18.5 20 impact of this project was identified and closely evaluated, one 15.5 of the results being the relocation of the 2 remote operation 15 centres of the Nova Via Manual from Carcavelos (the originally 11.4 intended location) to Maia and Sales Novas, in order to minimise 10 the social impact of the project. 5 Economic and budgetary impact of investments 0 in motorways 2008 2009 2010 In 2007 Brisa hired an investigator to perform an analysis on the ANNUAL REPORT 2007 economic and social impact of its motorway network. The study concluded that Brisa’s investment generates significant benefits for the Portuguese economy in terms of employment, private and product investment, therefore representing an important source of Investment in promotion of long term development. Innovation (M€) Further information is available in: Sustainability Report 2007 – see the chapter “In Community Social Development”. 6,0 5,5 5.2 Traffic evolution trend 4.9 5,0 4.7 In 2008, an internal study was carried out on the implications of traffic on the economic and social development of the country. Given 4,5 ANNUAL REPORT 2008 the long term nature of Brisa’s business, and as there have been no 4,0 disruptive factors, the results of these studies continue to represent 2008 2009 2010 a valid reference for the company. Further information is available in: Sustainability Report 2008 see the chapter “Development Traffic”. Environmental Investment Investment in The amount of environmental investment dropped by around 39%. motorways (M€) This variation reflects no change with regard to environmental management policy. 300 250 The reduction both in the treatment of waste and emissions and 207 in prevention and management of the environment is mainly due 200 to the reduction in the installation of acoustic barriers and in road surfacing. 150 110 122 100 The reduction in the number of road widening works and the major 2008 2009 2010 investment already made in previous years meant that there were fewer points in the network to justify this type of investment. Investment in Innovation The amount of investment in innovation, which includes research Investment in local and development, reduced by around 18%. This variation reflects the alterations made due to the creation of the new company Brisa communities (€) Inovação, which led to a new allocation of resources and lower execution costs resulting from a reduction in activity. 2,0 1.4 1.3 Investment in local communities 1,5 0.8 1,0 Investment in local communities, which includes donations and public service, reduced by around 35%. This variation does not reflect 0,5 any change with regard to the policy on donations nor public service, but mainly alterations in accounting criteria. 0 2008 2009 2010 53 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 • 02 Vectors of Sustainability Social Programme Show Solidarity In 2010, Brisa maintained its participation in the projects “Show “Show Solidarity”, a company-wide project in the José de Mello Solidarity” and “Learn to be an Entrepreneur”, the main contribution Group, has the aim of setting up an annual fund in favour of social to which comes from the employees. On the other hand, preparations solidarity institutions. The contribution made by employees is mawere begun on a new Social Programme in response to the more tched by an equal amount from the company. pressing needs of the local communities. In 2010, with a total of 656 members, a total of 40 thousand Euros In a year hampered by a tough business environment, preceded by was donated, awarded to the winning institutions: Abrigo, Associavarious years of economic crisis, the social reflections on the local ção Portuguesa de Apoio à Criança (CO Coina) and Casa da Caridacommunities where Brisa operates are a unavoidable reality. de de N.ª Senhora da Conceição (CO Ponte de Lima). In this adverse context, Brisa decided to step up its social component of voluntary projects to help the most needy. NUMBER OF members In 2010, preparations began on a new social programme based, on the one hand, on new criteria for the assessment and selection of SER SOLIDÁRIO projects and, on the other, on the creation of a new project that would address the more pressing needs. 660 656 655 This project will be developed and implemented in 2011. 650 646 645 Learn to be an Entrepreneur 640 633 635 In 2010, Brisa continued to participate in the Learn to be an Entrepreneur Project as a senior member, contributing with 20,000 €. 630 625 40 volunteers took part in the 2009/2010 academic year, involving 620 2008 2009 2010 a total of 1,043 students. portugal.ja-ye.org Show Solidarity Campaign, Christmas Party 2010 54 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 • 02 Vectors of Sustainability INNOVATION AND QUALITY Policy MATERIAL TOPICS COURSES OF ACTION New services VIA MANUAL PROJECT To promote the creation of value through a Network of Eco-system of Innovation COTEC Innovation, together with its partners Certification Triple Certification 4.9 m INNOVATION INVESTMENT AND COSTS 249 AUTOMATIC PAYMENT MACHINES 3 CERTIFICATIONS: QUALITY, ENVIRONMENT, INNOVATION A year after it was founded, Brisa Inovação e Tecnologia (BIT) Manual. Simple and intuitive to use, this innovative system allows further affirmed its decisive role in the E-toll project Nova Via drivers to pay with banknotes, coins, cards, and even with the Via Manual. It operates as a business development promoter and, at Verde, guided by lights and acoustic indicators. Roads that were the same time, as a catalyst for innovation, in Portugal and abroad, previously closed are now operational, creating greater fluidity for together with its partners. traffic and greater comfort for the customer. project Nova Via Manual Flexibility, innovation and technology are the fundamental features of this new system, developed by Brisa Inovação e Tecnologia (BIT), The challenge of providing better customer services and reaching the company that since 2001 has implemented the work developed new levels of operational efficiency through a revolution in toll by the Brisa Group in technological innovation and in the search for service was the key-word for the development of the Nova Via new business solutions. 55 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 • 02 Vectors of Sustainability With this new toll operation model, the optimised operation of international markets. Its participation in the Via Manual project toll roads without geographic constraints is now possible. The represented the recognition of its competences, extending its scope Brisa concession is already this solution’s third client, after its of operation from the sphere of military to civil business. implementation on the A17 motorway in the Brisal concession and on the A15 motorway in the Auto-estradas do Atlântico Concession. For the construction of the machines, BIT counted on Salemo e Merca, a metallurgical company that mainly provides support to This project was developed in Brisa’s network of innovation, the electronic industry. With around 200 employees, the Via Manual involving research centres, suppliers and start-ups, which operated project helped to create new jobs in Salemo e Merca. The tough as if in a virtual factory in which geographic dispersion, the requirements of this project led to the creation of a space for it diversity of competences, a complex logistical chain and just-inin one of the areas of the factory to house the manufacture and time expedition were some of the challenges overcome by the assembly of the equipment. Besides the production, Salemo e production team. Merca also played an important role in the development of the machine, namely with regard to its mechanics, through its product National industry has made a major commitment to this project, engineering area. which sought to maximise the incorporation of Portuguese technological capacity, keeping knowledge and production in Centimfe was in charge of the development of plastic materials. Portugal. So, doing justice to its nomination as the second most This partnership led to the creation of small production solutions, innovative company in Portugal, Brisa presented a challenge to the meeting the challenge to produce low consumption products at a network of Portuguese companies with export capacity, to which competitive price. the Via Manual project brought new business opportunities. The last stage of the process took place in Inolog – the assembly of The electronic components were produced in EID, a company which all the components of the 249 machines to be installed in Brisa’s normally operates in the area of communications in the Safety and network. The partnership with BIT allowed Inolog to improve and Defence industry. With around 130 employees, EID manufactures optimise processes, managing to meet the demands in terms of and supplies electronic circuit boards for the national and machine output capacity. 56 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 • 02 Vectors of Sustainability All the integrated planning of the production was coordinated by for the company in the market, enabling the systematization of G3P, one of the six start-ups created in connection with Brisa’s innovative projects and the measurement of the value created and, network of innovation. Keeping knowledge based in BIT, both consequently, better management. from the point of view of the product and of the process, the industrialization plan coordinated by G3P helped to maximise Brisa Inovação receives triple certification production and optimise costs. Brisa Inovação e Tecnologia (BIT) received triple certification The confidence placed in national technology and market paid in Innovation, Quality and the Environment, making it the first off, resulting in an increase in the quality of service and customer company of the Group to achieve this objective. The project started response. following the creation of BIT at the end of 2009 and led to the integration of the existing systems in the former Innovation and Participation in COTEC Technology Department (Innovation and Quality) with those of BAER (Quality and the Environment). COTEC Portugal – the Portuguese Business Innovation Association, cotecportugal.pt Formed in April 2003, took on the mission of promoting the This certification comes as a result of systematization and competitivity of companies based in Portugal, through the organization work and, in certain cases, the creation of new development and dissemination of a culture and practice of processes adapted to the new company. The development of the innovation, as well as of knowledge resident in the Country. Brisa is new system was performed in-house by the diverse areas of BIT, a member of COTEC, playing an active role in its actions. with the collaboration of the Audit, Organization and Quality Department, namely in the systematization and documentation of As part of the activity undertaken with COTEC, Brisa joined the processes, in the use of the DMS and SOMA information systems, pilot group of five companies that participated in the project for and in the holding of extended training courses. the certification of innovation management systems (standard nP4457:2007), which brought countless operational advantages by The integrated system, implemented in BIT and now certified, strengthening the areas of research, development and innovation supports diverse work areas, such as for example the management of solutions for diverse equipment associated to the company’s of Intellectual Property, which led to the first patent granted to Brisa business. in May 2010, relating to the system ALPR (Automatic License Plate Recognition), now implemented in the whole of Brisa’s network This was a logical step towards ensuring the fulfilment of the and which is also in use in the Northwest Parkway concession, in company’s policy of innovation and optimising information the photograph payment system. management processes. Besides this, this is a factor of differentiation Via Manual Project (A14) 57 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 • 02 Vectors of Sustainability Free Flow 58 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 • 02 Vectors of Sustainability FINAL NOTE After the evaluation by the Committee for the follow up of Corporate Governance and Sustainability, the Board of Directors hereby submits to shareholders its Sustainability Report for 2010, in the firm belief that, to the best of their knowledge, all information contained therein fully conforms to the applicable accounting standards, namely the Global Reporting Initiative, and that it presents a true and fair view of the economic, social and environmental performance of the Company, and of the companies included in the consolidation, while faithfully describing the evolution of the business, in the perspective of sustainability, including the systems and projects, objectives, risks and opportunities. São Domingos de Rana, 18 March 2011 BOARD OF DIRECTORS Vasco de Mello Pedro Rocha e Melo João Azevedo Coutinho João Bento António Nunes de Sousa António de Sousa António Nogueira Leite Salvador Alemany Más Luís Manuel de Carvalho Telles de Abreu Rui Diniz João Vieira de Almeida Martin Rey Daniel Alexandre Amaral 083 59 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 › 03 GRI INDICATORS 003 GRI INDICATORS 60 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 • 03 GRI INDICATORS GRI INDEX* ANSWER PAG. 1 Strategy and Analysis 1.1 Chairman , CEO or Director-General statement on the relevance of sustainability for Chairman’s Statement 9 the organisation and strategy. 1.2 Key impacts, risks and opportunities. Vison and Strategy 10 2 Organisational Profile 2.1 Name of the organisation. Chapter 1. Presentation 2 2.2 Main brands, products and/or services. 2, Chapter 1. Presentation 15-16 2.3 Operational structure of the organisation, including main divisions, countries where it Chapter 1. Presentation 15-16 operates, subsidiaries and joint-ventures. 2.4 Location of the organisation’s headquarters. Contra-capa 2.5 Number of countries where the organisation operates and names of countries where the main operations are developed or which are specifically relevant for Chapter 1. Presentation 15-16 sustainability issues presented in this report. 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal status. Back Cover 2.7 Markets covered (including geographical discrimination, sectors considered and Chapter 1. Presentation 15-16 types of customers/beneficiaries). 2.8 Size of the organisation, including: Number of workers; Net sales (for private sector organisations) or net revenue (for public sector organisations); Total Chapter 2. 47, 60 capitalisation, described in terms of debt and equity; quantity of products supplied Areas of Sustainability or services provided. 2.9 Significant changes during the period covered by the report in terms of size, structure or ownership including: Location or change in operations, including opening, closure and extension of operational units; and Changes in the structure of social capital Chapter 1. Presentation 15-30 and other changes in share capital and other operations in formation, conservation and change of capital. 2.10 Awards received during the period covered in the report. 50 3 Report parameters Report Profile 2 3.1 Reporting period. Report Profile 2 3.2 Date of most recent previous report. Report Profile 2 3.3 Reporting cycle. Report Profile 2 3.4 Contact point for issues regarding the report or its contents. Report Profile 2 3.5 Process for defining the report contents, including: -Process to determine materiality; Definition of priorities in relation to the issues in the report and Identification of Chapter 1. Presentation 11-13 potential stakeholders using this report. 3.6 Boundary of the report (ex., countries, divisions, subsidiaries, rented facilities, joint Report Profile 2 ventures, suppliers). 3.7 Specific limitations on the scope the report. Report Profile 2 3.8 Basis for reporting on joint-ventures, subsidiaries, leased facilities, outsourced operations and other situations which may significantly affect the comparability Report Profile 2 between periods and/or reporting organisations. 3.9 Data measurement techniques, including assumptions and techniques underlying 2 the estimates, applied to the collection of indicators and other information in the Report Profile 59-88 report. 3.10 Reformulations. Report Profile 2 3.11 Signifcant changes from previous reporting periods in the scope, boundary, or Report Profile 2 measurement methods applied in the report. 3.12 Table identifying the location of Standard Disclosures in the report. Chapter 3. GRI Indicators 60 3.13 Policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance. Report Profile 2 * For a complete definition of indicators presented, please see GRI Global Reporting Initiative (www.globalreporting.org). 61 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 • 03 GRI INDICATORS GRI INDEX* ANSWER PAG. 4 Governance, Commitments and Engagement 4.1 Governance structure, including specific committees at the highest governance Chapter 1. Presentation 22-31 level, such as the definition of strategy or supervision. 4.2 Chair of the highest governance structure. Chapter 1. Presentation 28 4.3 For organisations with a sole administrative structure, number of Chapter 1. Presentation 28 independent Members of the Board and/or non executive members. 4.4 Mechanism which allows shareholders and employees to suggest recommendations 12, 13 Chapter 1. Presentation or guidelines to the Board of Directors. 20-28 4.5 Connection between remuneration of the Members of the Board, senior staff and Chapter 1. Presentation 22 performance. 4.6 Processes in place for the highest governance body to ensure conflicts of interest Chapter 1. Presentation 22-30 are avoided. 4.7 Process for determining the qualifcations and expertise of the members of the highest governance body for guiding the organization’s strategy on economic, Chapter 1. Presentation 22-30 environmental, and social topics. 4.8 Internally developed statements of mission or values, codes of conduct and Chapter 1. Presentation 10, 14 principles, considered relevant for economic, environmental and social performance, Chapter 2. Areas of 39 as well as its implementation stage. Sustainability 4.9 Procedures of the Board to follow up and manage environmental, social and economic performance, including the most relevant risks and opportunities, as well Chapter 1. Presentation 22 30 as the compliance of rules, codes and principles. 4.10 Processes for evaluating the highest governance body’s own performance, Chapter 1. Presentation 22-30 particularly with respect to economic, environmental and social performance. 4.11 The precautionary approach or principle. Chapter 1. Presentation 10-14 4.12 Externally developed economic, environmental, and social charters, principles, or Chapter 1. Presentation other initiatives to which the organization subscribes or endorses. Chapter 2. Areas of 14, 39 Sustainability 4.13 Memberships in associations and sectoral organisations. Chapter 1. Presentation 14 4.14 Identification of stakeholders. Chapter 1. Presentation 12, 13 4.15 Basis for the identification and selection of stakeholders to be involved. Chapter 1. Presentation 11, 13 4.16 Type of approach to involve stakeholders, including frequency of involvement per Chapter 1. Presentation 12, 13 type and group of stakeholders. 4.17 Key topics identified in consultation to stakeholders and responses by the Chapter 1. Presentation 11, 13 organisation, including at the level of reporting. 62 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 • 03 GRI INDICATORS GRI INDICATORS LEGEND Qualitative Quantitative Not applicable Scope without AEA EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed PRINCIPLE 7 Please refer to p. 51. PRINCIPLE 8 Note: operating costs and revenues do not include the impact of IAS 11, since Brisa does not develop the construction activity. In consolidated acountability, this would contibute with revenue for the construction of 82 451 million and operating costs of equal value . EC2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities related with climate change PRINCIPLE 7 PRINCIPLE 8 Partnership with the Instituto Superior Técnico that share the common interest of developing solutions geared towards sustainable mobility in developing countries, namely in In 2009, Brisa started a project, in collaboration with the Instituto the large emerging metropolises. Among the central issues of this Superior Técnico, to develop a masters thesis on the implications of project is the challenge of climate change and the implications that climate change for Brisa. sustainable mobility can have with regard to reducing greenhouse gas emissions into the atmosphere. The Project focussed on 4 real In 2010, it was decided that this work would focus on the activity of study cases of mega-cities Dar es Salam, Shanghai, Bangalore and the Operational Centre, namely concerning the analysis of electricity São Paulo from the perspective of the specific challenges that consumption in order to prepare practical recommendations for each of them faces in dealing with questions of mobility. management. On site visits were made to gain information and an open collaboration was established with the various areas of Brisa actively participated in the São Paulo case study, contributing the company involved in this issue. The main objective is to identify with its experience in its affiliate, CCR. The case study was based opportunities for improvement that might be replicated in other on comprehensive and exhaustive research work on mobility in the infrastructures of the company. Metropolitan Region of São Paulo, developed in collaboration with local specialists. The M4D’s Work Group developed a publication The end of this work was postponed until mid 2011. which presented the main results of the Project, including concrete recommendations for the various stakeholders. Mobility for Development (M4D) Project For further information on this Project, please consult www.brisa.pt This project is an initiative of the World Business Council for Sustainable Development linked to the area of Sustainable Financial implications of fleet management Mobility, in which the question of emissions is approached from the perspective of Brisa’s business, or rather, of mobility. Improving the knowledge base on the monitoring of data on fuel consumption and respective emissions over recent years The M4D Project involves around 10 multinational companies aims to determine the financial implications of this topic for the from the motor vehicle, energy and road infrastructures sectors organization. EC3 Coverage of the pension plan In accordance with the estimate of the value of the Pension Fund to 1,826,000 Euros compared with its responsibilities. The current and of the respective responsibilities, according to the Benefits value of the projected responsibilities is 13,692,000 Euros. The rate Plan currently in force in the company and allowed for in the of coverage of employees covered by the Pension Fund is detailed Constitutive Contract of Brisa’s Pension Fund, updated to 31 by company in the following table: December 2010, there is a shortfall of funds in 2010 amounting BIT BAE BEG BOM VVP Total Total Nº of employees covered 82 200 105 1,418 125 1,930 Total nº of employees 85 201 220 1,471 132 2,109 % employees covered by the Pensions Plan 96% 100% 48% 96% 95% 92% 63 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 • 03 GRI INDICATORS EC4 Significant financial benefits given by the government Payments were received relating to the Ecovia Project: Repayment from partners AFCAL -5,810 Operating subsidies 189,780 € DECO -41,469 Plastval -22,591 European Commission Ecovia Project 291,518 € SPV -3,814 Tratolixo -22,426 Negative values correspond to the distribution of subsidies received Valorpneu -701 in full by Brisa, as promoter of the project, for the other partners, in Valorsul -4,925 the due proportion. EC5 Ratio of entry level wage compared to the minimum wage permitted at a local level, at the most significant locations of operation Euros 2010 There are no employees whose wage is based on the national Lowest wage in the organization 529 minimum wage. At the end of 2010, the lowest wage paid in the National minimum wage 475 Organization was 529 Euros. This remuneration is paid to 0.12% of Lowest wage in the most representative group in the population. 649 the organization Ratio of the lowest wage in the organization to If we consider the most representative operational group, which 111 includes the functions of Toll Booth Operator and Main Toll Booth the national minimum wage Ratio of the lowest wage in the most Operator, the ratio in 2010 is 1.37. representative group in the organization to the 137 national minimum wage EC6 Policy, practices, and proportion of spending on locally-based suppliers at significant locations of operation Brisa does not practise any form of discrimination in the selection In 2010, the percentage of local suppliers was 96.4%. of its suppliers, making market consultations of both local and international suppliers. Brisa comes under the regime of public procurement under which it is obliged to hold tenders pursuant to the law. EC7 Procedures for local hiring and proportion of senior management hired from the local community at significant locations of operation Brisa does not practise any form of discrimination in the selection type of discrimination in the recruitment of new employees within of its workers, actually being prevented at law from exercising any national territory. EC8 Development and impact of investments in infrastructures and services provided primarily for public benefit Please refer to p. 51 e 52. * “local” as a concept and as defined in this report corresponds to the national level, according to the scope defined in the “Report Profile”. 64 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 • 03 GRI INDICATORS EC9 Description and understanding of significant indirect economic impacts, including their extent Please refer to p. 51 e 52. EN1 Materials used by weight and volume PRINCIPLE 7 PRINCIPLE 8 This indicator reflects the consumption of raw materials in works These two factors together make it impossible to make a valid and PRINCIPLE 9 performed by BAE and AEA supervised by BEG. objective analysis of the oscillations. It is not possible to make any comparisons with results obtained The amounts presented are specific to each project as they depend in previous years as the results are not directly correlated with the on countless variables, such as road length, the number of viaducts, number of contract works in the period under analysis, nor is it road surfacing, topography, etc. For this reason, the monitoring of possible to make any other relevant direct correlation. the evolution of quantities recorded over time does not allow us to draw any conclusions in relation to the greater or lesser application The greater majority of the contract works in question have of sustainable methodologies by Brisa. deadlines for execution of over 6 months or even 1 year, as well as completely different works in the different stages of the job. Soils (aggregates, stone, gravel, MATERIAL Steel / Aluminium (kg) Wood (kg) Bitumen (kg) sand) (m3) Quantity 5,931,184.55 869,117.05 57,174.33 24,970,662.51 EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled This indicator reflects the use of materials used that are being 2) In relation to the reused materials that were reported in 2008, reused in construction works of CBR and AEA supervised by BEG. this year we now also have concrete, which is a direct result of the policy assumed by Brisa of obligatorily reusing concrete arising It is not possible to make any comparisons with results obtained from all demolished viaducts in its road widening projects. This in previous years as the results are not directly correlated with the is evidently a significant improvement, although for the reasons number of contract works in the period under analysis, nor is it explained above it is still not very detectable in the amounts possible to make any other relevant direct correlation. presented. A significant increase is expected in 2010. Note that: Material quantity Earth,(m3) 773,772.88 1) All the materials reused come from materials produced in the contract works themselves and that are later reused in other Milled,material,(m3) 47,047.36 contract works (earth) or in the same contract works (milled Concrete,(m3) 1,623.48 material and concrete). Brisa’s effort to reuse a considerable Other,materials,(m3) 15,039.25 quantity of the materials that it produces is quite evident. EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary energy source Please refer to p. 42. EN4 Indirect energy consumption by primary energy source Please refer to p. 42. 65 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 • 03 GRI INDICATORS EN5 Energy saved due to efficiency improvements and conservation Foram identificados os seguintes projectos em curso com vista a Telematic Project melhorias de eficiência e conservação: This project consists of the installation of solar energy panels as an Study of the efficiency of network lighting energy source for the telematic equipment placed throughout the network, especially focussing on places where it is not possible to Please refer to p. 42. access the national grid. Energy saved (2010): 11,372 GJ Energy saved in 2010: 346 GJ (see Indicator EN 4) Study of the efficiency of the motor fleet NWPY Project The new IQ vehicles were monitored since October 2009 with the In 2010, the NWPY concession’s Solar Project took a significant step objective of quantifying the saving obtained and to develop a case closer to realization with the signing of an agreement to purchase study to publish the results obtained during 2010. The information energy with Soltura/Bella Energy. This agreement was established will be available by the end of the first quarter of 2011. for a period of 20 years and covers the installation, operation and maintenance of solar panels that produce a total of 62 kW. EN6 Initiatives to provide energy-efficient or renewable energy based products and services, and reductions in energy requirements as a result of these The initiatives referred to in Indicator EN5 help to produce a more Via Verde and via mais verde energy efficient service. The Via Verde is an electronic payment system which automatically Besides these initiatives, the Via Verde and Via Mais Verde should debits the user’s bank account with the toll amount corresponding also be noted as both of these improve the energy efficiency of the to the distance travelled. Please refer to www.brisa.pt for further customers’ use of the infrastructures. information on how these systems increase energy efficiency. EN7 Initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption and reductions achieved Brisa’s initiatives with regard to energy efficiency go beyond its The aim of this project is to promote the adoption of more efficient direct activity and extend throughout its value chain. The following and safer driving habits in order to reduce fuel consumption and projects highlight the reduction in indirect energy consumption by the emission of pollutants and greenhouse gases, while also the customer in the use of the infrastructure and by employees’ air improving road safety. travel requirements: Air travel Eco-Driving Project Portugal In 2010 we started to record the total no. of air miles travelled by As a result of the study performed by Prof. Margarida Coelho on the employees of the Brisa Group. The objective will be to monitor the impact of electronic toll payment in reducing greenhouse gas this and check the current policy and consider possibilities for emissions (Measuring and Modelling Emission Effects for Toll improvement. Facilities), Brisa contacted specialists in the area of sustainable mobility, from which came the decision in 2008 for Brisa to become Total no. of air miles travelled in 2010: 627,824.65 a founding partner of the Eco-Driving Project Portugal. EN8 Total water withdrawal by source Please refer to p. 40. EN9 Water sources significantly affected by the consumption of water NA This indicator is not considered to be applicable within the Brisa Group’s scope of activity. 66 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 • 03 GRI INDICATORS EN10 Total volume and percentage of recycled and reused water The amount of water reused in laboratory tests is recorded in this During 2010, the water reuse and recycling processes implemented indicator. helped to save 704.64 m3 of water. EN11 Land in protected areas In 2010, the area administrated included in the Natura 2000 Special Protection Area with the objective of preserving the habitat Network totalled 3,591,221 m2, which corresponds to 3.59 km2. of the Lesser Kestrel. The reporting of this indicator also shows a rented area for the The area is the same as that reported for 2009 as in 2010 the implementation of measures to compensate impacts, under Brisa’s construction of new infrastructures or the widening of existing Protocol with the ICNB, which covers 10,000 m2 in the Castro Verde infrastructures did not intersect areas in the Natura 2000 Network. EN12 Significant impact on biodiversity in protected areas or areas of high biodiversity value In general, with regard to biodiversity, the main negative ensuring that information is gathered that will help to evaluate the environmental impacts caused by motorways are: main environmental impacts effectively caused during the works stage, as well as ensuring that the execution of the project is › Fragmentation of habitats environmentally sound. The intention is also to enable the timely identification of any situations that might lead to the need to adopt › Fauna additional environmental impact minimization/compensation measures. › Alteration of habitats In 2010, there were no interventions in areas included in the Natura › Quality of the air 2000 Network, and so there are no impacts to report. › Quality of underground and surface waters With regard to the motorway operation stage, the whole network of motorways under concession to Brisa and to Brisal is covered by › Fauna a animal-vehicle collision monitoring system and all the motorways built or which undergo road widening works after Decree Law › An increase in human pressure no. 69/2000, of 3 May, came into force are covered by General Environmental Monitoring Plans (GEMP) with the fundamental Assessment of the fragmentation of habitats is based on diverse objective of performing a post-assessment of impacts. parameters, namely through the monitoring of fauna involved in collisions with vehicles. Assessment of the alteration of habitats is The sub-stretches between Almodôvar/S. Bartolomeu de Messines mainly based on the monitoring of the quality of the air and water. and S. Bartolomeu de Messines/V.L.A., on the A2, are the only ones that, in the universe of the network under concession to companies This indicator reports on the impact on biodiversity in protected in which the Brisa Group has a majority shareholding, are covered areas which are considered to be the areas identified in the Natura by GEMPs and at the same time cross areas included in the Natura 2000 Network. 2000 Network, namely Sítios do Caldeirão and Barrocal. As such, the information reported for this indicator relates solely to these 1. Design and Works Stages sub-stretches. Taking this aspect into account, the impact on biodiversity relating to In the sub-stretches referred to above, the impact on biodiversity the construction and running of motorways is assessed beforehand, was assessed through monitoring campaigns that cover the in the study and execution design stage, during the environmental monitoring of the quality of the eco-systems that support the impact assessment process, with an analysis being performed at communities and the more concrete monitoring of the fauna these stages on different routes and designs, with measures for and flora, namely the monitoring of culvert and viaduct recovery impact minimization or compensation being drawn up. projects, namely those indicated as sites for the recovery or maintenance of their functionality as ecological corridors, Subsequently, but still during the works stage, environmental monitoring the efficacy of the culverts as passageways for fauna, monitoring is carried out and the Environmental Management Plan and their use by groups of fauna as a habitat of refuge, monitoring and the monitoring programmes are implemented with the aim of the evolution of plant communities on the banks of the water lines 67 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 • 03 GRI INDICATORS crossed by the infrastructure, the monitoring of the evolution of Air Quality Index freshwater systems, and estimates of the levels of mortality of the A2 Almodôvar / S. Bartolomeu de Messines / V.L.A. different groups of vertebrates in order to assess the real impact of the highways on the fauna of the surrounding zones. With regard to the monitoring of the quality of the eco-systems that involves the monitoring of the quality of the air, the quality of underground and surface waters there are no significant impacts consistently attributable to the motorways. 11.1 Very good 2.1. Quality of the water 12.7 Good 76.2 Average In relation to the quality of surface waters, there were no significant impacts caused on the A2 in 2010. In fact, the pollutants analysed, 0.0 Poor which could be expected to be generated by the circulation of 0.0 Bad motor traffic on the A2 Copper, Cadmium, Zinc and Chromium – are always in very low concentrations that are lower than the legal limits, with the exception of an occurrence concerning Hydrocarbons, in the critical period (summer), the recorded value of which was above the maximum permissible value. Some monitoring campaigns on the flow-off waters and rivers sampled sometimes show a high level of Total Suspended Solids. 2.3. Monitoring of fauna In relation to the quality of underground waters, and to pollutants The analysis of the road-kill of species of wild animals showed that that are caused by the circulation of motor traffic on the A2, no there were no animal-vehicle collisions with threatened species, as concentrations were recorded above the legal limits. published in the Red Book of Vertebrates of Portugal, 2005. 2.2 Quality of the air In relation to animal use of the culverts, monitoring is carried out through the placement of stone dust throughout the width of the Figure 1 tries to illustrate the quality of the air on the sub-stretches structures allowing the subsequent identification of the footprints referred to above during around 7 weeks of monitoring the quality recorded in the dust. of the air in the Summer and Autumn periods, which arrived at an air quality index that was generally good and very good, with In the campaigns held during 2010, one per season of the year, the concentrations of atmospheric pollutants not representing a indirect traces were observed (footprints and animal waste) problem. The levels of pollutants, the concentrations of which are showing the use of the animal species or groups in the various mostly associated to the motor traffic emissions (NO2 and NOx,), Culverts, Animal Passageways, Agricultural Corridors, Underpasses always record values that are lower than the values imposed at law. and Viaducts surveyed that are listed in Table 1. Common Name vulgar Scientific Name Cattle Domestic animals Mammals Dog Canis familiaris Domestic cat Felis cf. catus Hedgehogv Erinaceus europaeus Mongoose Herpestes ichneumon Genet Genetta genetta Otter Lutra lutra Marten Martes foina Mammals Badger Meles meles Wild animals FOX Vulpes vulpes Rabbit Oryctolagus cuniculus Skunk Mustela nivalis Micro-mammals Birds Reptiles Table 1. Species that use the Culverts monitored on the A2 in 2010 68 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 • 03 GRI INDICATORS The records of indirect signs (footprints and animal waste) of that they belong to the same individual animals) at both entries. the various animal species or groups in the Culverts, Animal In the case of agricultural corridors, underpasses and viaducts, it Passageways, Agricultural Corridors, Underpasses and Viaducts is considered that the presence of any trace (footprints or animal surveyed are shown in Figure 2. With regard to the use of the waste) along the sections means that we can assume it was crossed culverts and animal passageways, this was recorded by the by the identified animals. The record of such use is also shown in presence of footprints belonging to the same species (assuming Figure 2. Number of traces / crossings detected in the passageways monitored Skunk Otter Marten Cattle Hedgehog Cat Badger Mongoose Reptiles Fox Micro-mammals Genet Rabbit Dog Birds 0 20 40 60 80 100 120 Total nº of crossings Figure 2. Animal crossings in the culverts monitored resulting from the holding of a campaign Total nº of traces in each season of the year The results of the monitoring of the animal use of the culverts fragmentation of habitats caused by the A2. suggest that these structures help to reduce the effect of EN13 Habitats protected and restored 123 The restoration and protection of given habitats is one of the Works Stage strategies included in the biodiversity policy to prevent or repair negative impacts associated to Brisa’s activities. The areas of In relation to the implementation of landscape integration and protected or restored habitats may result from: recovery projects, seed beds were applied in an area of 103.5 hectares on motorways embankments under construction during › Works Stage Implementation, at the end of the works, of 2010. landscape integration and recovery projects; Operating Stage › Operation Stage Implementation of active restoration or protection measures of the habitats during the running stage Regarding the active restoration and protection measures in the of the road infrastructures; operating stage and in connection with the implementation of the compensation measures associated to the Aljustrel / Castro Verde › Voluntary projects with third parties (Business & Biodiversity sub-stretch on the A2, a series of actions were taken in 2010 on a Initiative) Habitat restoration and protection projects arising rented area of land in the Castro Verde Special Protection Area of from partnerships with third parties on areas of habitat that around 1 hectare with the objective of preserving the habitat of are different ones from those referred to above. the Lesser Kestrel, namely by prohibiting access to the ruin where 69 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 • 03 GRI INDICATORS this bird makes its nests by means of fencing and by increasing the Voluntary projects with third parties Business & number of nesting holes in this ruin. Biodiversity Initiative [Please refer to p. 43] Still in relation to these compensation measures, contracts were In view of the above, the area of protected and restored habitats entered into with a series of landowners in the Castro Verde Special totalled 2,213 hectares in 2010, which corresponds to 22.13 km2. Protection Area in order to ensure the implementation of measures to manage the colony of Lesser Kestrels, namely to ensure the extensive character of agricultural and animal husbandry activities. The total area of this land, in 2010, is approximately 692.2 hectares. Protected and restored area = 2,213 hectares 64% Initiative business & 28% Biodiversity Biodiversity Tagus international 31% Operation Stage 36% Cork Oak Tree 5% Works Stage Biodiversity EN14 Strategies, current actions & future plan for managing impacts on biodiversity The management of impacts on biodiversity is a strategic priority FOperating Stage for Brisa, as shown in the Declaration on Biodiversity Policy. The management of impacts on biodiversity on the motorways The detailed description of the various measures included in Brisa’s at the operating stage is, currently and in the near future, also Environmental Management System, in the design, construction developed by pursuing four strategies. and operation stages, are detailed in the response given to this indicator in the site www.brisa.pt. 1. The first strategy arises from the legal impositions in Decree Law no. 69/2000, of 3 May, and Ministerial Order no. Design and construction stages 330/2001, of 2 April, and is implemented through General Environmental Monitoring Plans that focus on human Monitoring campaigns were held in 2010, during the design and health and well-being and on the quality of the eco-systems, construction stages, on the following motorways: meaning that issues related with biodiversity are approached through an integrated vision that includes not only the specific › A1 – Estarreja / Feira sub-stretch monitoring of the fauna and flora, but also the monitoring of environmental quality parameters that help to protect the › A2 – Coina / Palmela / Setúbal (A2/A12 Junction) sub-stretches diverse communities. › A2 – Maia/Santo Tirso sub-stretch During 2010, in the operating stage of the motorways under concessions to companies in which the Brisa Group has a majority › A8 – CRIL/Loures stretch shareholding, the General Environmental Monitoring Plans (GEMP) were implemented on around 368 km of motorways, in the › A8 – Loures/Malveira stretch following locations: › A12 – Connection to Alto da Guerra A3, Porto/Valença Motorway, on the Águas Santas / Maia substretches, for a length of 5.2 km; 70 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 • 03 GRI INDICATORS A1, North Motorway, on the Feira / IC24 Junction / Junction 2. The second strategy consists of the monitoring of the road-kill of at Carvalhos, Condeixa / Coimbra South / Coimbra North and wild animals throughout the network under concession to Brisa. Aveiras de Cima / Santarém / Torres Novas sub-stretches for a length of 17.1 km, 8.78 km and 47.5 km; 3. The third strategy is related with a protocol established with education and research institutions and State entities aimed at A10, Bucelas/Carregado Motorway, on the Bucelas / Arruda analysing and investigating the direct impacts on species on the dos Vinhos / Carregado / Benavente / A10/A13 Junction submotorways and possible measures to minimise these impacts. stretches for a length of 39.8 km; 4. The fourth strategy involves a series of initiatives focussed on flora. A5, Estoril Coast Motorway, on the Carcavelos / Estoril / Alcabideche sub-stretches, for a length of 7.7 km; Besides the measures in the design, construction and operating stages referred to above, the Brisa Biodiversity Programme contemplates 5 A13, Almeirim/Marateca Motorway, on the Almeirim / partnerships with leading national entities, under which research and Salvaterra de Magos / A10/A13 Junction / Sto. Estêvão / education projects are being developed. Pegões / Marateca sub-stretches, for a length of 78.7 km; The Brisa Biodiversity Programme is available at the site www.brisa.pt. A2, South Motorway, on the Fogueteiro / Coina and Castro Verde/Almodôvar/S. Bartolomeu de Messines/V.L.A. substretches, for a length of 8.9 km and 62.1 km; A17, Marinha Grande / Mira Motorway, for a length of around 92 km; EN15 Number of IUCN Red List species and national conservation list species Are reported in Table fauna and flora species affected by domestic construction activity motorways. During 2010, there were six species affected. 2010 MW MAMMALS AVIFAUNA REPTILES AND AMPHIBIANS Status Status Status (Length) SPECIES COMMON NAME SPECIES COMMON NAME SPECIES COMMON NAME Triturua Palmate Newt VU helveticus A1(18 km) Vipera Snub-nosed VU latastei viper A2 (12,9 km) Miniopterus Common Streptopelia VU Turtle Dove VU schreibersi Bentwing Bat Turtur A3 (12,6 km) Tadarida European Antus R Tree Pipit R teniotis free-tailed bat Trivialis Miniopterus Common A12 (3,2 km) VU schreibersi Bentwing Bat Total species (no.) 6 species VU Vulnerable R Rare EN16 Greenhouse gas emissions 123 Please refer to p. 43. EN17 Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions abc Work-related travel is mostly carried out in the Brisa Group’s fleet by airlines is very marginal and not very significant and was not of vehicles, and is counted as direct emissions. As the company included in this report. does not transport its employees, other travel, namely, performed 71 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 • 03 GRI INDICATORS EN18 Initiatives to reduce GHG emissions and reductions achieved Brisa is aware that the global issue of climate change indirectly Study of the efficiency of the network lighting (see Indicator EN5); affects the company’s business, which will tend to have a growing impact in the mid to long term. Telematic Project (see Indicator EN5); The organization has taken a number of steps to reduce greenhouse NWPY Project (see Indicator EN5). gas emissions based on a policy of energy efficiency and additional measures that go beyond the scope of the emissions for which the Initiatives to reduce emissions that are not controlled by the company is directly responsible. organization Initiatives to reduce direct emissions (corresponding to the See Indicator EN6 and Indicator EN7 consumption reported in Indicator EN3); In 2010, important steps were taken in order to assess, monitor Study of the efficiency of the IQ sub-fleet vs. the IMA sub-fleet (see and quantify the measures described above, recording a reduction Indicator EN5); of 11,372 GJ. Initiatives to reduce indirect emissions (corresponding to the consumption reported in Indicator EN4); EN19 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances abc A Replacement Plan is being drawn up for equipment that uses 152/2005, altered by Decree Law no. 35/2008 which defines the the Fluid R-22 (HCFC-22), or other fluids of the same type, in order requirements concerning the minimum qualifications of the staff to ensure that on 1 January 2015 there is no equipment that uses involved in technical interventions. The qualified technicians fill in hydroclorofluorocarbons, this being the date as of which these fluids the form presented as annex II of Decree Law 35/2008 whenever will be totally prohibited under Regulation (CE) no. 1005/2009. a technical intervention is made on refrigeration equipment, air conditioning and heat pumps. Repair and maintenance works are performed by entities licensed for the purpose, with technicians who are duly qualified as per the legal requirements applicable, among which is Decree Law no. EN20 NOx, SOx, and other significant emissions by type and weight The Brisa Group performs no activity that produces significant With regard to other atmospheric emissions, the data from the atmospheric emissions given that none of Brisa’s businesses comes monitoring of the quality of the air, under the General Environmental under the category of manufacturing industry. The Brisa Group’s Monitoring Plans, on motorways with average daily traffic much atmospheric emissions are generated only by the circulation of its higher than the number of vehicles in the Brisa Group’s fleet, fleet vehicles. generally indicate low concentrations of atmospheric pollutants, and so the emissions of around 600 vehicles that circulate The emissions of Brisa’s fleet vehicles are not significant because throughout the country are not significant and are negligible in these are emissions of the diffuse type and only come from 594 terms of this report. vehicles. This affirmation is based on the fact that, with regard to SOx, the emissions of this pollutant from the burning of fuel in motor circulation is not significant, given the implementation of significant reductions in the sulphur content of the fuel. EN21 Total water discharge by quality and destination The calculation of the amount of water discharged is based on according to information obtained through indicator EN8 relating the water consumption values obtained through indicator EN8 for to water consumption, making a total of 326.4 m3. BEG’s work yard in Maia, considering that the domestic discharge volume produced corresponds to 80% of water consumption. The analysis sheets prove that the quality of this discharge complies with legal requirements. In the laboratory at Maia there is an estimated discharge of around 163.2 m3 and in the laboratory in Loures of around 163.2 m3, 72 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 • 03 GRI INDICATORS EN22 Total waste by type and destination 123 Please refer to p. 41. EN23 Total number and volume of significant spills 123 During 2010, 478 incidences of the sub-type spills were recorded in obligation to perform any kind of tests nor analyse the impacts of Brisa’s concession (which compared to 2009 represents a decrease the spills. of 11.3% in incidents of this subtype), all of which were analysed. Based on the analysis carried out, there was no incidence that met Nevertheless, the occurrence of spills on the road platform in the the conditions of the criteria that define a significant spill. network under concession/sub-concession are subject to a number of processes that are fully described in the respective volume With regard to AEA, in the procedures of the Traffic Control Centre, of the Operation and Maintenance Manual attached, in which only occurrences (incidents) in which there are spills are recorded, we would point out its recording and accounting in the iBrisa whether these be caused by known or unknown vehicles. With software application (in the case of the Brisa concession), which regard to accidents, it is considered that in the event of a spill, with is permanently operating in real time, available and accessible to the exception of hazardous material, these are resolved following users with access permission. the resolution of the accident and are therefore not included in the database. Based on these assumptions, there was a total of 26 The criteria defined for an occurrence to be considered a “significant incidents with spills and considering the criteria indicated, none spill” are the following: were significant. · Spills caused by heavy vehicles – spills caused by light vehicles NWPY recorded a total of 3 accidents with spills in 2010. However, were not considered in the analysis of gravity; none of the spills comes within the criteria identified above. · Involvement of the National Civil Protection Authority (ANPC) Pursuant to DL170A/2007 of 4 May, the concessions/subconcessions are not responsible for the products spilled on the · Spills contained and resolved exclusively by Brisa Assistência road infrastructures under their responsibility. The transporters and Rodoviária (BAR) and Brisa Conservação e Infra-estruturas owners of the products have to have emergency plans that operate (BCI) were not considered; in the event of spills. These entities, in close collaboration with the ANPC, should carry out tests and verify the impact that the spills · The length of road affected was not considered but rather the had both on the zone under concession/sub-concession and on impact that the spill had on safety and circulation on the the surroundings. The concessions/sub-concessions have no legal motorway. EN24 Weight of transported, imported, exported or treated waste deemed hazardous NA under the terms of the Basel Convention and percentage of transported waste shipped internationally This indicator is not considered to apply to the activity of the Brisa Group. EN25 Water bodies affected by discharges NA This indicator is not considered to apply to the activity of the Brisa Group. EN26 Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of products and services Noise reduction The barriers are programmed for locations where the noise levels established by legislation are not met and are designed with the Among the minimization measures adopted during the construction objective of reducing noise levels to the legal limits. In 2010, and operating stages of the motorways feature the measures to acoustic barriers were installed along 10,649.80 ml, representing minimise discomfort due to noise coming from the circulation of an area of 38,216.55 m2. traffic on the motorways. In relation to road surfacing, a draining surface was adopted on the This is the most significant impact from this type of activity. In 2010, sub-stretches A4 A4/A11 Junction/Amarante, between km 51+550 acoustic barriers were installed and road surfaces used that have and km 51+600, and on the A3 Braga West / Anais/Ponte de Lima better noise absorption capacity. sub-stretch, and the road surface with Open-graded bituminous 73 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 • 03 GRI INDICATORS concrete manufactured with crumb rubber modified bitumen on a region of the Algarve, from possible contamination by pollutants the A8 Widening CRIL/Loures and A8 Widening Loures/ Malveira. accumulated on the road platform and drained off by precipitation. The concentrations of pollutants in the effluent treated are very Minimization of impacts on water resources low, and are mostly below the limits of analytical quantification. The main features of note in this regard are the operational activities Mention should also be made of the operational and maintenance of the 6 run-off water treatment plants on the S. Bartolomeu de activities of the run-off water treatment plants on the viaduct Messines/V.L.A. sub-stretch of the A2. The objective is to protect south of the Tagus Crossing, on the A10, and of the run-off water the Querença-Silves aquifer, which is used in the water supply for treatment plants on the A17. EN27 Percentage of products and their packaging materials that abc are reclaimed at the end of the life cycle The nature of Brisa’s business consists of the construction and 3º End of the contract – The identifier is analysed and its management of infrastructures, and so we do not produce products destination maybe the same as in the previous point if it is broken, in a conventional sense, neither does the question of packaging or recycled if it can still be made to work. materials arise. This indicator is therefore considered not to be relevant for the organization. Regarding the calculation requested, the percentage is not significant and may be misleading as this activity is not performed The only product that may be considered under this indicator is on a regular basis but is a somewhat sporadic occurrence. the Via Verde identifier. The management of these identifiers is performed exclusively by Via Verde, which means that cases of In 2010, with the objective of recycling more identifiers, a campaign maintenance, breakdown, repair or destination at the end of the was held associated to the Delfim Project. life cycle are managed by the company. There are essentially three situations worth mentioning: For each identifier returned to Via Verde, due to breakdown or nonuse, 5 Euros were donated to the research activities of this Project. 1º Replacement of the identifier’s battery – The battery is collected by the Via Verde and delivered to a specialised recycling company. The campaign helped to collect 1,376 identifiers, which produced a total donation of 6,880.00 Euros. 2º Breakdown of the identifier – The identifier is received by Via Verde and delivered to a specialised company that separates the Further information on the Delfim Project is available at www. materials and recycles them when this is technically possible. projectodelfim.pt EN28 Monetary value of significant environmental fines In accordance with the established criteria, there were no relevant incidences in this indicator. EN29 Significant environmental impacts of transporting products and other goods and materials The impacts considered significant at this level are reported in indicators EN16 and EN20. EN30 Total environmental protection expenditures and investments by type The total value of investments and expenditure spent on The reduction in investment, both in waste and emissions treatment environmental protection in 2010 was 11,410,562.88 €. and in prevention and environmental management is mainly due to the reduction in the installation of acoustic barriers and in the application of road surfacing. INVESTEMENT (euros) 2010 Amount invested in waste and On the one hand, the reduction in the number of road widening 9,935,888.87 emissions treatment works and the major investment already made in previous years Amount invested in prevention and meant that there were fewer points in the network to justify the 1,474,674.00 environmental management installation of new acoustic barriers and the application of road Total amount invested in the environment 11,410,562.88 surfacing.o de pavimento. 74 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 • 03 GRI INDICATORS LA1 Total workforce by employment type, employment contract, and region At the end of the year, the breakdown of the group’s workforce was 90.3% permanent staff and 9.7% temporary staff. Permanent Temp. Staff Temp. Staff % Temp. % Permanent Distribution by company Total FTE’s Staff (fixed period) (no fixed period) Staff Staff BRISA AUTO-ESTRADAS 187 1 188 188 0.5% 99.5% BRISA CONCESSÃO RODOVIÁRIA 13 13 13 0.0% 100.0% BRISA ENGENHARIA E GESTÃO. S.A 105 12 103 220 220 52.3% 47.7% BRISA INOVAÇÃO E TECNOLOGIA.SA 82 3 85 85 3.5% 96.5% BRISA O & M 1.418 44 9 1.471 1.396 3.6% 96.4% BRISAL 3 3 3 0.0% 100.0% CONTROLAUTO 281 38 9 328 327 14.3% 85.7% ITEUVE 59 14 1 74 74 20.3% 79.7% M.CALL. S.A. 29 16 45 45 35.6% 64.4% VIA VERDE PORTUGAL 125 7 132 132 5.3% 94.7% AEA 109 1 0 110 45 0.9% 99.1% NWPY ND ND ND 7 7 ND ND BPE ND ND ND 4 4 ND ND BNA ND ND ND 2 2 ND ND Total employees in the Brisa Group 2.411 136 122 2.682 2.541 9.6% 89.9% (as at 31 December 2010) Percentage of temporary labour contracts has dropped from 16% to 10% in the last four years. Year Permanent Temporary Total Employees Distribution by Regions of the Country nº % 2010 2,411 258 2,669 Centre Region 560 20.98% 2009 2,480 363 2,843 Lisbon Region 1,194 44.74% 2008 2,531 336 2,867 Alentejo 266 9.97% 2007 2,382 349 2,731 Algarve 44 1.65% 2006 2,307 433 2,740 North 605 22.67% Total in the Country 2,669 100.00% Employees seconded overseas 4 0.15% 45% of the employees of the group work in the Lisbon Region, 23% Total Employees 2,673 100% in the North and 21% in the Centre. Although to a lesser extent, Brisa also has employees in the Alentejo and Algarve regions, as Employees Abroad nº % well as in the rest of the world. United States of America 7 77.78% Brazil 2 22.22% Total workforce – sum of the number of employees with employment Total 9 100.00% contracts at the end of the period under analysis and of the average Total employees in the Brisa Group number of FTE’s with temporary contracts during the same period. 2,682 (as at 31 December 2010) FTE’s (Full Time Equivalent) – equivalent to the no. of full-time employees. Calculation formula: total no. of hours contracted divided by the work potential [(8h*5d*52s)/12]. AV. Nº of employees – simple mean. 75 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 • 03 GRI INDICATORS LA2 Rate of employee turnover by age group, gender, and region The employee turnover rate at the end of 2010 was 10.40%, resulting from the sum of 63 admissions and 226 departures. › Av. number of employees – simple mean › Staff turnover = (no. departures + no. admissions) / av. permanent staff › Rate of Departures = no. of departures x 100 / av. permanent staff › Re-sizing rate = ((Av. permanent staff on n av. permanent staff on n-1) / av. permanent staff on n-1)) x 100, › Where n is the period under analysis and n-1 is the year prior to the period under analysis › Annual Rate of Staff Turnover (voluntary departures) % = no. of departures upon worker’s initiative / total departures during the period under analysis 2008 2009 2010 Admissions 114 106 63 Departures 140 129 226 Employees,at,the,end,of,the,period 2,866 2,843 2,669 Av.,no.,of,employees 2,880 2,841 2,778 Resizing,Rate,% 5.8 -1.4 -2 Annual,staff,turnover,rate,(departures,voluntary),% 34.6 16.3 9.29 Rate,of,departures,% 4.9 4.5 8.14 Turnover,rate, 8.8% 8.3% 10.40% COMPANY Av. nº in 2010 BRISA O & M 1,594 Brisa Auto-Estradas 198 Brisa Engenharia e Gestão 216 Brisal 3 Via Verde Portugal 130 Mcall 17 Rate of departures distributed by gender: M.Call 29 Controlauto 325 COMPANY FEMALE MALE Total Iteuve 71 BRISA AUTO-ESTRADAS 0.07% 0.61% 0.68% BIT 82 BRISA CONCESSÃO RODOVIÁRIAS 0.04% 0.00% 0.04% Consolidated Group 2,664 BRISA ENGENHARIA E GESTÃO 0.00% 0.25% 0.25% CCR 1 BRISA INOVAÇÃO E TECNOLOGIA 0.00% 0.07% 0.07% BPE 3 BRISA O&M, S.A. 3.42% 2.99% 6.41% Northwest Parkway 7 CONTROLAUTO 0.00% 0.18% 0.18% Brisa North America 2 MCALL, S.A. 0.04% 0.04% 0.07% Employees abroad 13 VIA VERDE PORTUGAL 0.07% 0.00% 0.07% AEA 114 AEA (50%) 0.14% 0.22% 0.36% Total Employees in the Brisa Group (av. nº) 2,791 Total 3.78% 4.36% 8.14% Rate of departures distributed by age: COMPANY <30 30-50 >50 Total BRISA AUTO-ESTRADAS 0.07% 0.32% 0.29% 0.68% BRISA CONCESSÃO RODOVIÁRI 0.04% 0.00% 0.00% 0.04% BRISA ENGENHARIA E GESTÃO 0.04% 0.14% 0.07% 0.25% BRISA INOVAÇÃO E TECNOLOG 0.00% 0.07% 0.00% 0.07% BRISA O&M, S.A. 1.51% 4.00% 0.90% 6.41% CONTROLAUTO 0.04% 0.11% 0.04% 0.18% MCALL, S.A. 0.00% 0.07% 0.00% 0.07% VIA VERDE PORTUGAL 0.00% 0.07% 0.00% 0.07% AEA (50%) 0.05% 0.25% 0.05% 0.36% Total 1.75% 5.04% 1.35% 8.14% 76 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 • 03 GRI INDICATORS Rate of departures distributed by the main reasons: Reason for the Measure Total % Cessation of the cont. (fixed period) 73 2.63% Cessation of the cont. (open contract) 7 0.25% Dismissal 3 0.11% Decease 3 0.11% Initiative of the Worker 21 0.76% Mutual agreement 116 4.18% Early retirement 1 0.04% Old-age retirement 2 0.07% Total 226 8.14% LA3 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or part-time employees The Benefits awarded to part-time employees are the same as those attributed to full-time staff, respecting the proportion to the working hours put in. LA4 Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements The Brisa Group’s strategy is coherent with the fulfilment of national and international standards and principles, namely, scrupulously respecting national employment legislation, which incorporates the principles of Community Directives, the Universal Declaration on Human Rights and the Portuguese Constitution. However, in some areas, due to the collective bargaining agreement, it also offers more favourable treatment than that ordained in legislation. Brisa promotes close articulation with the Workers’ Organizations of Representation, sharing the Company’s strategic options with these structures in order to ensure that social stability is maintained through a candid climate and serious and constructive dialogue. The Collective Labour Agreement expressly states the commitments of nondiscrimination, respect for working hours, the pledge not to use forced or child labour, and protection of maternity, among others. 2007 2008 2009 2010 Population on 31 December 2,731 2,866 2,843 2,669 Nº of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements 2,315 2,436 2,407 2,223 Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements 85% 85% 85% 83% Of the total no. of workers in the group, 83% are covered by the Collective Labour Agreement. Under the Collective Labour Agreement (CLA) salary updates are negotiated each year, always with the concern to protect the employees’ purchasing power. It should be pointed out that, besides other benefits and remuneration catered for in the CLA, the lowest salary exceeds the national minimum wage by around 11%. The rate of trade union representation is 50%. The companies that have signed collective bargaining agreements are: BAE, BEG, VVP, BIT, BOM and AEA. Formula of calculation: (nº of workers covered by the CLA / total nº of workers in the Brisa Group at the end of the period under analysis) *100. 77 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 • 03 GRI INDICATORS LA5 Minimum notice period for organisational changes In innovation and restructuring processes that imply operational workers are given a prior hearing, as can be read in the respective changes, the involvement of the representative structures of CLA’s. Ref.: no. 3 of Clause 21, CHAPTER V of the CLA 2010 and for the workers is safeguarded in order to ensure the appropriate AEA – Clause 20, no. 3, of the respective CLA (ACTO) the procedure accompaniment of the situations and the necessary social stability. to change the working hours work respects the provisions in no. 2 It has been Brisa’s practice to formally agree any changes involving of article 173 of the Labour Code and for AEA – Clause 20, no. 5, as the place of work and working hours with the employee, as can be read in the respective CLA’s. Although the CLA has not been established in the Collective Labour Agreement, in the text of no’s signed by all companies in the Brisa Group, the minimum notice 1 and 2 of Clause 34 of CHAPTER VI and of no. 8 of Clause 21 of periods are established at law and are fulfilled by all the companies CHAPTER V. In the case of changes to the temporal organization of in the Brisa Group. work that are not individual, the representative structures of the LA6 Percentage of the total workforce represented in formal joint management-worker health and safety committees The Collective Labour Agreement has established the terms of In 2007, Brisa’s representatives on the Committee on Health, the formal constitution of the Committee on Health, Hygiene and Hygiene and Safety at Work were appointed with the objective Safety at Work since 2006. This parity committee, which allows for of advising the company on its occupational health and safety the appointment of the workers’ representatives, the existence of systems and processes. which in the form of an election is formally agreed with the trade union organizations, comprises six members, three representatives The election of the workers’ representatives is awaited, this being of the workers and three representatives of the company. the sole responsibility of the representatives of the trade unions. LA7 Ratios of accidents, professional illnesses, days lost, absenteeism and 123 number of deaths related with work, by region In accordance with the new diploma that regulates Health, Hygiene › Elaboration of the Annual Reports of the companies of the and Safety at Work (HHSW), approved in 2009, the Brisa Group’s Brisa Group; HHSW Intragroup Service became the Internal Service of Health, Hygiene and Safety at Work (in Portuguese: S.I.S.H.S.T.). › Analysis of accidents at work. In 2010 the S.I.S.H.S.T. essentially undertook the following activities summarised here: 2010 Nº of accidents 96 › Definition and provision of technical information, in the Days lost 17,000 design and execution stage, on prevention measures relating Workers x hours worked 4,440,553 to the work facilities, locations, equipment and processes in Frequency Rate 21.62 the planned toll barriers (new and subject to alterations) and Seriousness index 3.828 in the premises of BIT and of the Head Office; Incidence Rate 0.04 Duration index 177.08 › Reassessment of the risks at the toll barriers and cooperation Nº of deaths arising from accidents at work 2 in the taking of risk control measures; › Organization of the means intended for collective and individual accident prevention; Main,Reasons 2010 %,2010 Occupational,accident, 19,787 0.37% › Information and training for workers on health and safety Family,leave, 7,834 0.15% risks, as well as on safety measures: Health and Safety at Work Illness 154,251 2.88% Course for the Representatives of the Employer, initial training Unjustified,absence 10,143 0.19% in HHSW for the Toll Operators on the new motorways, training Strike 465 0.01% for electronic and mechanical technicians; Other,Causes 50,026 0.94% Total, 242,505 4.54% › Assessment of the risks inherent to the installations of Brisa Maternity/Paternity 20,144 0.38% Auto-estradas, taking into account the specific locations of Student-employee, 3,801 0.07% the activities of the companies contracted in fulfilment of the Total, 266,450 4.98% provisions in the Labour Code, and definition of the respective safety measures, together with the definition of the course content contemplated for the training of workers; › Gathering and organization of statistical data relating to health and safety for each company in the Brisa Group; 78 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 • 03 GRI INDICATORS Absenteeism = hours of absence / maximum work potential Working days are considered to be days lost, and these are counted as from the day immediately following the day of the accident. Note: excluding absences due to study/exams and maternity or paternity leave. The formulas used for the calculation of this indicator are the same as those used for 2007, 2008, 2009 and 2010, using the basis of Rate of road accidents at work: calculation agreed in Ministerial Order no. 1184/2002, of 29 August – which approved the Annual Model of Activities of the HHSW › ÍIncidence rate (no. accidents work / effective average) Services. The other indicators are not legally obligatory, but are frequently used in studies on Health and Safety at Work. › ÍFrequency rate (no. accidents work x 106 /no. hours worked) › ÍSeriousness index (no. days lost x 106 / no. hours worked) › ÍDuration index (no. days lost / no. of accidents) LA8 Education, training, counseling, prevention, and risk-control programs in place to assist workforce members, their families, or community members Brisa outsources health services in the area of Occupational cardiovascular and hepatic illnesses, namely electrocardiograms Medicine and Curative Medicine. This service, which covers all and diagnosis of cholesterol and triglyceride levels. For Diabetes workers, operates in the areas of prevention, education and risk glycaemia levels are controlled and for Liver diseases Gamma GT control of diseases considered serious by the National Health analysis is performed. Service. Brisa also works in the area of Alcohol Consumption Prevention Occupational Medicine has regular appointments and auxiliary and Control. The purpose of this programme is to prevent workdiagnosis exams, the purpose of which is to screen for serious related accidents and to detect situations of addiction, which are diseases, regardless of where these are related or not to working oriented towards an intervention programme, thus promoting the conditions or the professional activity. protection of workers’ health. Employees perform medical exams every two years, followed In this area, programmes aimed at local communities are covered by medical consultation. In the year in between, they are also by the National Health Service. For this specific population, Brisa seen by the doctor once. Workers whose age or functions carry concentrates its efforts by making available all means and resources higher health risks perform exams and are seen every year this necessary to raise awareness and carry out training in road safety, group includes employees under 18 and above 60 years old, and given the nature of its activity. employees working in shifts. Curative Medicine operates in the areas of counselling on and treatment of pathologies of any worker seeking out this service. The exam protocol reflects the concern for the early diagnosis of LA9 Health and Safety topics covered by formal agreements with trade unions abc Health and safety issues covered by formal agreements with trade namely through the employees’ representatives appointed for this unions are described below. purpose; 1. Clause 10, Paragraph 4 any individual admitted to the staff will 5. Clause 18, Paragraph 1, line j) – The rules concerning Health, be subject to a prior appropriate medical exam, at the expense of Hygiene and Safety at Work established in the applicable legal the employer; provisions and agreements, as well as orders given by the employer must be complied with; 2. Clause 17, Paragraph 1, Line g) – With regard to hygiene, health and safety at work, the measures that arise for a company, 6. Clause 21, Paragraph 11 Workers who work uninterruptedly establishment or activity from the application of the legal provisions in equipment using a visor must make 10 minute breaks every 2 and agreements in force will be adopted; hours, which, for all due purposes, will be considered as effective working time; 3. Clause 17, Paragraph 1, Line h) appropriate information and training to prevent accidents and illnesses must be provided to 7. Clause 76, Paragraph 1 Employers must comply with the employees; legislation on Health, Hygiene and Safety at Work and adapt it with the collaboration of workers representative bodies, to the specific 4. Clause 18, Paragraph 1, line i) there should be cooperation, characteristics of their work, by means of internal rules and later within the company, to improve occupational health and safety, transposition to this CLA; 79 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 • 03 GRI INDICATORS 8. Clause 76, Paragraph 2 – As there are corporate relations Committee (C.S.H.S.) will be set up, to act as an advisory body, between all the companies adhering to this CLA, and as regards the comprising an equal number of members from both parties; main activities undertaken in the premises and for the provision of services related with Health, Hygiene and Safety at Work, these will Clause 76, Paragraph 4.1 The C.S.H.S. will comprise three of the be considered as only one, particularly with regard to the workers’ seven elected members, within the terms of the previous paragraph, representatives; as representatives of the workers and three members appointed by the employer; 9. Clause 76, Paragraph 3 Given the different geographic locations of the companies’ working places, the election of the This indicator is only applicable to the following business units: workers’ representatives will be performed by correspondence, BOM, Via Verde;BIT, BEG. under the terms of the law; 10. Clause 76, Paragraph 4 Following the election of the workers’ representatives, a common joint Occupational Health and Safety LA10 Average number of hours of training by year, by employee and by category Please refer to p. 48 e 49. LA11 Programmes for skills management and lifelong learning that support the continued employability of employees and assist them in their career management The information on this indicator is included in indicator LA10. LA12 Percentage of employees who regularly receive performance and career development analyses 2010 In 2010, 2,446 employees were assessed, of whom 391 were Nº of employees assessed 2,446 promoted as a result of the process. These results relate to Nº of employees 2,559 performance in 2009. % 96 Other considerations: The Performance Management system is one of the most important › In the Performance Management system of Management and tools to support the establishment of specific goals and the Senior Staff, all employees incorporated in their respective definition of lines of action to be followed by employees and their functional groups are evaluated, provided they were admitted hierarchy. after the 30 June of the year being evaluated. The system is based on a spiral logic and on the annual definition › In the Performance Management system of Non-Senior Staff, of the specific objectives to be achieved by the company, where all employees are evaluated in their respective roles, except each employee recognises the importance of the individual input for: towards the results of the whole team, the input of the team into its respective area and the latter into the global outcome. 1. Workers admitted after 01 April of the year of evaluation; It is also considered as a dynamic system where continuous 2. Workers who are absent for more than 6 months improvements are being introduced, resulting from analysis (absenteeism from January to December of the year of the incorporating elements from the various companies, and also evaluation); taking into account the inputs of employees and their respective hierarchies. 3. Professionals who have changed duties, with a change of salary after 01 July of the year of the evaluation. The Performance Management process involves all employees. 80 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 • 03 GRI INDICATORS LA13 Composition of groups responsible for corporate governance and 123 discrimination of workers by category, according to gender, age group, minorities and other indicators of diversity. The most represented functional group works in the toll sector, accounting for 41% of total workers. Administrative functions, Customer service and vehicle inspection are the second most represented areas. Functional sub-groups WOMEN MEN Total Functional sub-groups WOMEN MEN Total Administrative 273 98 371 Administrative 73.58% 26.42% 14% Customer Assistance 7 319 326 Customer Assistance 2.15% 97.85% 12% Heads of Department 14 32 46 Heads of Department 30.43% 69.57% 2% Designers / Topographers 1 16 17 Designers / Topographers 5.88% 94.12% 1% Seconded 0 0 0 Administrators and Directors 11.39% 88.61% 3% Administrators and Directors 9 70 79 Electricians / Electronics 3.77% 96.23% 2% Electricians / Electronics 2 51 53 Foremen / Supervisors 1.30% 98.70% 3% Foremen / Supervisors 1 76 77 Auto Inspectors 7.14% 92.86% 12% Inspectores Auto 23 299 322 Mcall Operators 61.76% 38.24% 1% Auto Inspectors 21 13 34 Tolls 28.82% 71.18% 41% Tolls 317 783 1,100 Civil Const. Prof. 8.51% 91.49% 2% Civil Const. Prof. 4 43 47 Senior Technicians 43.15% 56.85% 7% Senior Technicians 85 112 197 Total 28.36% 71.64% 100% TotaL 757 1,912 2,669 Governance bodies: Curricular information available at www.brisa.pt. 120% 100% 80% WOMEN 60% MEN 40% 20% 0% Civil Const. Prof. Administrative Customer Assistance Heads of Department Designers / Topographers Administrators and Directors Electricians / Electronics Foremen / Supervisors Auto Inspectors Mcall Operators Tolls Senior Technicians LA14 Ratio of basic salary of men in comparison with that of women by 123 professional category The Group does not restrict access by women to any job or category and the remuneration they receive is not different to that of men. The wage table agreed pursuant to the CLA applies equally to the base salary of men and women covered by the CLA. The same principle applies to Mcall, Controlauto and other group companies in the car inspection business, even though they are not covered by Brisa’s Collective Labour Agreement; Remuneration and recruitment policies followed by the organisation 30 years ago were quite different from those of today. Only in recent years do we find women performing functions that were traditionally reserved for men. On the other hand, employees who have worked the longest at the company may have had more progression opportunities. Taking these factors into consideration, the Company 81 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 • 03 GRI INDICATORS determined the base salary ratio differently for men and for women, having in the first case considered only a sample of the total workforce and in the second case determined the ratio for the overall workforce. Assumptions for the first 3 tables: › Employees of the Companies who subscribed the CLA in 2010; › Only employees working full time are considered; › The average wage per category was used to calculate the ratio; › Employees admitted in the last 10 years; › Functional groups where there are no women were excluded. Administrative Job FEMALE MALE Ratio M/W Office clerk 884.51 901.95 1.02 Technical administrative 1,429.56 1,272.86 0.89 Specialised administrative 1,695.67 1,726.00 1.02 Toll Operator Job FEMALE MALE Ratio M/W Toll Booth Operator 2,499.4 2,865.57 1.15 HR1 Percentage and total number of significant investment contracts which include clauses concerning human rights or which have been submitted to an analysis PRINCIPLE 1 PRINCIPLE 2 on human rights Brisa considers that the markets in which it has made significant considers that it will be necessary to ponder on the inclusion of investments in 2010 safeguard human rights. In the light of the the above mentioned clauses or specific criteria to guarantee the recent entry into Asian markets, namely in India, the company protection of human rights. This matter will be developed in 2011. HR2 Percentage of suppliers and contractors who have been subject to actions ascertaining their position on human rights PRINCIPLE 1 PRINCIPLE 2 In contracts entered by Brisa with service providers and/or workers involved in construction works or inside its premises. These suppliers, human rights are safeguarded under the law in force, issues are controlled and recorded on specific files which make up and this is therefore not a critical situation. Therefore, there is no the Health and Safety Development and Specialization Plan. evaluation applied to outsourced companies and suppliers related with human rights. This control is performed by Brisa’s safety department, which performs audits and discusses with the workers’ representative Under its Health and Safety at Work Management Project, Brisa (previously appointed) training, safety and working condition controls and requires training, safety and specific conditions for issues. HR3 Total nº of hours of training in policies related with human rights This indicator is considered not to be applicable for Brisa’s business. 82 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 • 03 GRI INDICATORS HR4 Total number of incidents of discrimination and actions taken PRINCIPLE 6 In 2010 there were no cases to report in this indicator. HR5 Operations which jeopardise freedom of association and collective bargaining and measures taken to support the risk against this PRINCIPLE 3 There have been no known cases in which there has been a Powers of trade union representatives significant risk of preventing the free exercise of freedom of association and enteringinto collective bargaining agreements. Union representatives have competence and powers to perform all duties entrusted entrusted upon them in this agreement and by Trade union activity in the companies law, in compliance with the rules established therein. 1 Workers and unions are entitled under the law to undertake Rights and guarantees of trade union representatives trade union activities within the companies, namely through union representatives, Union Committees and the Interunion Committee. 1 Union representatives are entitled to post texts, convocations, notices or information relating to trade union activities and to the 2 Workers who are members of the management board or social and professional interests of the workers inside the company, equivalent body of a union have a monthly credit of four days to as well as to distribute these, but without prejudice, in any of these perform their duties. cases, to the normal operation of the unit, installation or service in question. 3 Union representatives have a monthly credit of five hours to perform their duties, or eight hours when they are members of the 2 The places to post information are reserved by the employer or Interunion Committee of union representatives in the companies. its representative, after hearing the union representatives of the respective establishment. Meetings 3 Union representatives have the right, within the scope of their 1 Workers are entitled to meet during normal working hours up duties, to perform union activities inside the Company, without to a maximum of fifteen hours per year, which will be considered prejudice to the service and rules defined in the safety regulations. for all purposes as actual working hours, notwithstanding the normal labour duties in cases of shift work, supplementary work Committee Facilities and assistance to users, and given that, in other cases, they ensure that all urgent and essential services are provided. The employer undertakes to provide union representatives, if they so desire, with a place inside or close to the establishment, which 2 The meetings referred to in the previous number can only be is appropriate to the performance of their duties, as defined by law. summoned by the Interunion Committee of union representatives in companies, or if this has not been created, the respective union Rights and guarantees of trade union leaders representatives committee; in this case, the limit of fifteen hours per year will relate to each worker considered individually. 1 The union board in question shall communicate, with a minimum prior notice of one day, the dates and number of days needed by 3 The entities promoting these meetings, within the terms of respective members to perform their duties or, if not possible, the the previous numbers, are required to inform the employer or its two working days immediately following the first day of absence. representative and interested workers, with a minimum prior notice of one day, of the date and time of the meetings and the respective Payments to trade unions are deducted monthly on the sue date for notices should be posted in a specific location for the purpose. the following trade unions: 4 The members of the managing bodies of the trade union associations, if duly accredited by the respective union, can Nº of workers of the trade union SETACCOP 526 participate in the meetings, subject to informing the employer Nº of workers of the trade union SETAA 1 thereon with a minimum prior notice of six hours. Nº of workers of the trade union SITESE 10 Nº of workers of the trade union CESP 464 Nº of workers of the trade union of Quadros 6 Técnicos de Desenho Nº of workers of the trade union CESNORTE 2 Nº of workers of the sindetelco 5 Nº of workers of the strup 2 Nº of workers of the sttrun 4 83 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 • 03 GRI INDICATORS HR6 Operations identified as running a significant risk of using child labour and measures taken to help to eliminate child labour PRINCIPLE 5 Although it is an indirect activity, the operations where there is a Inspections relating to the control of workers, performed by Brisa risk of child labour are construction works in motorways carried out BEG by subcontractors. Documented Inspections are performed at the start of the No cases were detected based on the control mechanisms in employee’s work (performed by the Supervision) and in the period force, such as: Entrance control sheets of the workers in the work between the two audits, covering as much of the construction yard yards, for which the contractors are responsible; and Documented as possible. HR7 Operations identified as having significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory labour and measures to contribute to the elimination of forced and PRINCIPLE 4 compulsory labour Please refer to indicator HR6. HR8 Percentage of security personnel trained in the organization’s policies or NA procedures concerning aspects of human rights This indicator is not considered to be relevant in terms of Brisa’s business. HR9 Total number of incidents of violations involving rights of NA indigenous people and actions taken This indicator is not considered to be relevant in terms of Brisa’s business. SO1 Nature, scope and efficiency of programmes and practices which evaluate and 123 manage the impacts of the operations on the communities which include the onset, operation and end of activity Brisa’s activity is widely spread and has a strong impact on local for Nature Conservation and Biodiversity (ICNB), the Water Institute communities. Aware of this fact, Brisa holds various mechanisms, (INAG), the Institute for Managing Architectural and Archaeological at different levels, aimed at measuring and managing the impacts Heritage (IGESPAR), and others. This consultation of entities with on the communities where it operates. a long experience in the area where the undertaking will be built, helps to incorporate the different concerns in the projects in good Public consultations carried out within the scope of the time, and thus prevent them from emerging at a later stage. This Environmental Impact Assessments methodology therefore helps to get the project approved more quickly by the relevant authorities and to begin land expropriation The development of studies and projects underlies a major concern proceedings and construction. to obtain environmentally sustainable technical solutions. In fact, with the aim of increasing the quality and effectiveness of Within the scope of project coordination for the Environmental undertakings – from preliminary studies to final designs measures Impact Assessment stages (design and construction stages), during are taken to ensure that the quality of engineering projects is of 2010 approximately 50 working meetings were held with relevant a high standard, namely by implementing an effective process to stakeholders, relating to the following works: coordinate environmental studies so as to incorporate measures to prevent and reduce impacts in the global project. › A1 Road Access to Carregado Junction – North Lisbon Logistical Platform During the Environmental Impact Assessment stage, meetings with the authorities involved in the project are held as well as with › A1 Widening and Improvement works on the Carvalhos / Santo other authorities (in agreement with the Portuguese Environment Ovídio sub-stretch Agency), where projects are presented and questions raised by different stakeholders and clarified by Brisa as the developer. › A3 Widening and Improvement works on the Águas Santas / Maia / Santo Tirso sub-stretch Adopting a pro-active stance, Brisa consults entities interested in the project at this stage, namely, municipal councils, the Institute 84 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 • 03 GRI INDICATORS › A4 Widening and Improvement works on the Águas Santas / During 2010, around 23 thousand such contacts were processed by Ermesinde sub-stretch Brisa O&M’s Customer Service. › A5 Widening and Improvement works on the Estádio National / FLOW-CHART FOR CUSTOMER CONTACTS Oeiras / Carcavelos sub-stretch › A5 Reformulation of the Junction at Carcavelos Entry › A9 CREL – Queluz / Radial da Pontinha sub-stretch › A10 A1/Benavente sub-stretch – Tagus Crossing at Carregado Classification › A12 Montijo / A2/A12 Junction sub-stretch – Poceirão Logistical Platform treatment of the contact › A12 A2 A12 Junction / Setúbal (EN10) sub-stretch. Connection to Alto da Guerra request for opinion and/or › A43/IC29 Gondomar / A41/A43 Junction information (when applicable) › A33 Road accesses to the new Lisbon Airport approval of the response The experience acquired in over 1,000 km of Brisa’s motorways has enabled it to compile a vast range of fundamental information and knowledge on impact-generating mechanisms. It is therefore possible to consider the relevant environmental constraints during send response to the customer the design stage and to then introduce mitigation measures to reduce the significance of these impacts. Environmental Inspection of contract works is a very important and The local-rate call line 808.508.508 is available 24 hours a day, pertinent aspect as construction activities can provoke significant 365 days a year, and the shops are geared to respond all questions impacts on the environment and their control is thus imperative to raised by customers. minimize negative impacts. This situation is monitored / controlled by Brisa’s supervision department. Customers’ contributions provided through these channels are very relevant and, in some cases, the information collected will help In this light and in line with good environmental practices, it is us to make specific improvement measures at operational and crucial to implement increasingly efficient methods to control management levels. project and construction activities that lead to a reduction in the significance of the impacts. Example 1: In 2009, a customer communicated the existence of a systematic Inspection of Environmental Minimisation Measures traffic jam at a specific toll barrier, on a certain day and time of the Management of Incorporated Construction Works in Project week. This information was communicated to the respective toll department that decided to open an additional toll booth and thus solved the situation. Knowledge on Mechanisms Generating impacts Example 2: from Basic Information A customer wrote referring an opportunity to improve lighting management in the Mato Forte Tunnel (A10). The respective Efficacy Increase of Mechanisms department was informed and acted accordingly, benefiting both Monitoring Impacts customers and the organization. Institutional Communication Reduction of Significance of Impacts aNew Solutions The Press Service conveys information to local communities through its communication channels to the media. Information concerning long-term works or those with a significant impact on local communities was provided through: Customer Support Service › 10 press conferences; For the Brisa Group our customers’ opinion is fundamental and we therefore value all contributions made that might improve safety › 234 press releases; conditions, circulation and comfort on our motorways. In this regard, customers can contact the concessionaire by through the › 102 news items on Brisa’s website. shops and the website, by e-mail, letter, fax and the RSVP form, available at toll barriers. 85 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 • 03 GRI INDICATORS SO2 Percentage and total number of business units analyzed for risks related to corruption PRINCIPLE 10 Currently there is still no systematic quantification of the areas/ In 2010 the configuration of the “Framework Enterprise Risk business units of the Brisa Group analysed in terms of the Management” started in the Brisa Group’s support tool for the corruption risk. risk management process (BWISE) which is still in hand and where the risks inherent to the Compliance, Financial, Business and The Audit, Organization and Quality Department assesses the Operational areas will be recorded and assessed. risks inherent to the activities of the areas audited, interviewing and consulting the parties involved for this purpose. It also checks Lastly, it is important to mention that in the business and budget and tests the internal control mechanisms in place and verifies the planning process for 2011, the heads of the business units of the degree of implementation of the recommendations made following Brisa Group were asked to identify the factors of uncertainty/risk in previous works. terms of the Group’s objectives, as well as the actions intended to mitigate the respective risks. Internal processes include mechanisms of validation and internal control that aim to mitigate any risks, including corruption, associated to Brisa’s activities. SO3 Percentage of employees trained in organisation’s anti-corruption policies and procedures PRINCIPLE 10 Given the specific nature of this type of training, the percentage of staff trained in this subject was calculated versus the total number of existing staff in departments more closely linked to this activity – the Audit, Organization and Quality (DAQ) and the Financial Department (DFC). In 2010 the coverage rate was 15% in the DAQ and 0% in the DFC. SO4 Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption PRINCIPLE 10 Concerning the steps taken in the Brisa Group in this regard, the › Definition of an Irregularities Notification Channel that makes main points are: it possible for all employees to freely and conscientiously expose any violation of ethical and legal nature occurring within the › The existence of the Code of Ethics (after training courses for company, introducing another method in the organization that will employees) with the respective commitment by employees to enable the early detection of irregular situations (the guarantee fulfilling its guiding principles (concluded in 2009); of the requirements necessary for its applicability and effective implementation in the organization is in hand). › Appointment of the Ethics Ombudsman (2009); SO5 Positions and participation in public policy development Brisa expresses its position in the area of public policies intervening IBTTA – International Bridge, Tunnel and Turnpike Association; in events in its sector of operation and providing information through the mass media. BCSD Portugal – Business Council for Sustainable Development; Brisa participates and influences the development of public policies WBCSD – World Business Council for Sustainable Development as a member of organisations and associations: CRP – Centro Rodoviário Português APCAP – Associação Portuguesa das Sociedades Concessionárias de Auto-Estradas ou Pontes com Portagens; ASECAP – European Association of tolled Motorways, Bridges and Tunnels; 86 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 • 03 GRI INDICATORS SO6 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary 123 sanctions for non-compliance with laws and regulations Brisa’s relationship with political parties, politicians and related Brisa’s Code of Ethics is available at www.brisa.pt institutions is subject to Brisa’s Code of Ethics, article 4. Relationship with the Concession Grantor and Public Entities. SO7 Total number of legal proceedings regarding unfair competition, anti123 trust, and monopolistic practices In 2010 there were no proceedings to report in this indicator. SO8 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary 123 sanctions for non-compliance with laws or regulations In 2010 there were no cases of significant amounts. PR1 Life cycle stages in which health and safety impacts of products and services are assessed Design Stage WSC will be tightly exercised by BEG, in strict fulfilment of applicable legislation and of the documents issued at the design The main objective of the Project Safety Coordination (PSC) is stage, especially the HSP. to ensure that General Prevention Principles are included in the elaboration of the project in order to reduce the risks in the Guarantee Period construction and use/maintenance stages after the conclusion of the works. A Provisional Reception Survey is carried out on the Works at the end of construction. As it is statistically proven that more than 50% of the causes of accidents in the construction and public works industry can be In the guarantee period the works are monitored by the Operations attributed to the design stage, it is BEG’s responsibility to act Centre which reports any anomalies to BAE which subsequently at this point so as to facilitate the construction process and the notifies BEG to intercede with the Contractors in order to repair management of the construction in terms of Safety at Work. these anomalies. Making use of BEG’s vast experience in accompanying construction At the end of the guarantee period a Definitive Reception Survey is works the PSC can prepare or control the preparation of Building carried out on the Works. After this Statement is issued if everything Specifications and Contract Conditions, Health and Safety Plans is in order, the bank guarantee is returned to the Contractor (HSP) and Technical Compilations in a more effective manner. responsible for the execution of this work. It is therefore essential for BEG’s technicians to be in mutual contact Operating Stage to ensure that all of its responsibilities as Safety Coordinator in the design stage are met (DL 273/2003). The most relevant aspects with the greatest impact on Health and Safety with regard to the ongoing conservation of the road Construction Stage infrastructure network were identified as being: The main objective of Works Safety Coordination (WSC) is to ensure › Vertical signposting the continuous improvement of the working conditions in the › Horizontal Signposting (road markings) construction yards under BEG’s management and responsibility, in › Engineering structures order to effectively reduce the rate of road accidents in relation to › Road surfaces the sector of activity in question. The technical description of these elements found in the Brisa site. PR2 Life cycle stages in which health and safety impacts of products and 123 services are assessed In 2010 there were no cases with relevant values. 87 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 • 03 GRI INDICATORS PR3 Type of product and service information required by procedures and the percentage of significant products and services subject to such information requirements. › The Websites for Brisa, VVP, Controlauto, BAER, Brisal, and EcoVia › Distribution of numerous information leaflets indicating the services provided and rules covering the use of such services, e.g.: › Repórter Brisa – 2 daily broadcasts on TSF radio station to inform customers on traffic conditions › Works on the A5; › Release of information on traffic conditions on motorways for all › leaflet relating to the New Payment Method at Tolls the press whenever deemed necessary (DIS’ Press Releases) › Via Verde Customer Support Line › Local-rate Call Line – Brisa’s Assistance and Information call line providing all types of information on matters, such as: traffic › Service stores available throughout the network conditions on motorways, location and services of shops and service areas, procedures… › VVP – information available when acquiring a VVP identifier and throughout the duration of the contract (contract, campaign › VSP – Variable Sign Panels distributed along the motorways allow documentation should the identifier be acquired in relation to an the company to input different information depending on the most advertising campaign, statements sent to the customer,…) important things to be transmitted to customers at any given time, such as: traffic conditions, information on accidents, warning › Controlauto – information made available on the site and in messages, Christmas campaign messages;… inspection centres (e.g.: opening hours, no. for bookings, price list,…) › Around 70 communication panels for Brisa’s Local-rate Call Line › BAR – Price list and conditions made available on the site, on › Distribution of cards with an indication of the number to call for the local-rate call line whenever requested and by the mechanics Brisa’s Local-rate Call Line before starting the service. PR4 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning product and service information and labeling In 2010 there were no incidents under this indicator. PR5 Practices related to customer satisfaction, including results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction Brisa continues to attribute decisive importance to the satisfaction service; quality of services available on the motorway; quality of of its customers with the quality of the service provided. The available information, cost of use and Brisa’s stance. satisfaction indicators adopted by Brisa for assessing the quality of the service provided, now through a service provision contract with Mercuri International stopped operating in Portugal in 2010, Brisa O&M, continue to be included under the MIS (Management although its competences and experience were incorporated into Information System). a new company, 3A Consultores, with which Brisa started to work that same year. The MIS imposes one year target values and 3 year target values for these indicators. In view of the reorganization of the group and the changes implemented at various levels, 2010 was also a year of change The sources of these values are, on the one hand, the results of for this study and new approaches are being evaluated. For this the annual assessment study of the Customer Satisfaction Indices reason, in 2010 this study was not held, although all alternatives (MI CARE) and, on the other, the results arrived at by the internal are being analysed in order to improve this study so that it can be monthly monitoring of the customer service provided, as well as held again in 2011. other relevant business indicators. MONTHLY MONITORING OF CUSTOMER SATISFACTION Annual Customer Satisfaction Study Brisa O&M and Via Verde listen to their customers every month, so Brisa, with the support of Mercuri International, between 2004 as to react more promptly to the level of service provided, namely: and 2009 developed an annual programme to monitor customer satisfaction, based on surveys, focussed on all the services, and/ * In the Road Assistance service; or specific segments of these, which the company provides. The results obtained through these studies were duly analysed and * Via its local-rate assistance call line (assistance and information) incorporated in the management of the products and services for customers. The questionnaire was designed to be used through * With personal attendance in shops Brisa’s Call Centre, and was structured into nine parts: sample characterisation; travelling speed; comfort, safety and quality of the * In the service as a whole (Via Verde) 88 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 • 03 GRI INDICATORS The methodology used is to hold monthly satisfaction surveys of HALF-YEARLY MONITORING OF CUSTOMER SATISFACTION over 250 users of the local-rate assistance call line, approximately BRISA O&M 200 users of the Via Verde Help Line, over 100 customers assisted by Brisa Road Assistance, and over 400 Via Verde customers. The Brisa O&M was created at the end of 2009. As from 2010, this answers are inputs for the indicators predefined by Brisa O&M company also started to hold studies to assess the satisfaction of and Via Verde. The results are placed in the MIS. The results the concessionaires to which they provide services: Brisa, Brisal, for 2010 (on a scale from 1 to 4): Local-rate call line – Average AEDL, AEBT, AELO, TDM. global satisfaction: 3.6, which represents an increase of 7% over the previous year. Shops – Average global satisfaction: 3.25, In the questionnaires used in the 1st semester of 2010, Brisa O&M which represents an increase of 2% over the previous year; Road obtained the following results for the satisfaction of its customers Assistance: Annual average global satisfaction: 3.63, which is the (on a scale of 1-4): With regard to the global performance of the same as in the previous year. company: 3.46; In terms of the level of performance of each service, it obtained an average of 3.57. At this time we still do not have the results of the 2nd semester, which should be available in February. PR6 Programs for adherence to laws, standards, and voluntary codes related to marketing communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship Brisa does not subscribe to any law, standard or voluntary code subject to its Code of Ethics, article 6. Relationship with the public related with marketing communications. However, Brisa’s marketing and media organisations. Brisa’s Code of Ethics is available at initiatives, including advertising, promotion and sponsorship are www.brisa.pt. PR7 Life cycle stages in which health and safety impacts of products and 123 services are measured In 2010 there were no cases involving significant values. However, This campaign featured an inadvertent omission, since it was a minor sanction was applied on Via Verde related with case not clear to consumers that was valid only for the acquisition of 15930/08 of the DGC (Directorate-General for the Consumer), from identifiers for vehicles in classes 1 and 2. which a fine of €3,142.43 was imposed. The complainant felt discriminated because he wanted to get a, The fine arose from a complaint made to ​​ the Direcção-Geral do identifier class 5 and failed to qualify for the campaign. Consumidor through the Portuguese Association for Consumer Protection (DECO), following a promotional advertising campaign, by which the Via Verde Portugal attributed a 50% discount on the price of Via Verde identifier. PR8 Total number of substantiated complaints regarding breaches of NA customer privacy and losses of customer data This indicator is not considered to be relevant in terms of Brisa’s business. PR9 Monetary value of significant fines for non-compliance with laws and 123 regulations concerning the provision and use of products and services In 2010 there were no significant cases under this indicator. 083 89 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 › 04 VALIDATION 004 VALIDATION 90 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 • 03 GRI INDICATORS KPMG & Associados – Sociedade de Revisores Telefone: +351 210 110 000 Oficiais de Contas, S.A. Fax: +351 210 110 121 Edifício Monumental Internet: www.kpmg.pt Av. Praia da Vitória, 71 A, 11º 1069-006 Lisboa Portugal INDEPENDENT ASSURANCE REPORT (This Report is a free translation to English from the Portuguese version In case of doubt or misinterpretation the Portuguese version will prevail) To the Board of Directors of Brisa Auto-Estradas de Portugal, S.A. Introduction 1 We were engaged by the Board of Directors of Brisa Auto-Estradas de Portugal, S.A.(“Brisa”) to provide assurance on the Sustainability Report of Brisa (“the Report”) for the year ended 31 December 2010. Responsibilities 2 The Board of Directors of Brisa is responsible for: • The preparation and presentation of the sustainability information in accordance with the Sustainability Reporting Guidelines (G3), of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) as described in the chapter “Report Profile” of the Report, and the information and assertions contained within it; • For determining Brisa’s objectives in respect of sustainable development performance and reporting, including the identification of stakeholders and material issues, in accordance with the principles of inclusiveness, materiality and response of AA1000APS (2008); and • For establishing and maintaining appropriate performance management and internal control systems from which the reported information is derived. 3 Our responsibility is to carry out an assurance engagement and to express a conclusion based on the work performed to obtain: • Reasonable assurance on whether GRI Indicators: Economic Data (EC1), Patronage (EC8), Innovation (EC9), Electricity (EN4), Energy Efficiency (EN5 and EN6), Water (EN8), Biodiversity (EN11, EN12, EN13, EN14 and EN15), Emissions (EN16), Waste (EN22), Environmental Impact Reduction (EN26), Fines (EN28), Environmental Investment (EN30), Social Impact (SO1), Training (LA10), Performance Evaluation (LA12) and Client Satisfaction (PR5), are free from material misstatement; and, • Limited assurance on whether the information in the Report, as a whole, for the year ended 31 December 2010 is free from material misstatement We conducted our engagement in accordance with International Standard on Assurance Engagements (ISAE) 3000, Assurance Engagements other than Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial Information, issued by the International Auditing and Assurance Standards Board. These Standards require that we comply with applicable ethical requirements, including independence requirements. KPMG & Associados – Sociedade de Revisores Oficiais de KPMG & Associados S.R.O.C., S.A. Matriculada na Conservatória Contas, S.A., a firma portuguesa membro da rede KPMG, Capital Social: 2.840.000 Euros Pessoa Colectiva Nº do registo Comercial de composta por firmas independentes afiliadas da KPMG PT 502 161 078 Inscrito na O.R.O.C. Nº 189 Lisboa sob o Nº PT 502 161 International Cooperative ( KPMG International ), uma entidade Inscrito na C.M.V.M. Nº 9093 078 suíça. 91 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 • 03 GRI INDICATORS Scope 4 The scope of our work was as follows: • Reasonable assurance A reasonable assurance engagement with respect to the indicators EC1, EC8, EC9, EN4, EN5, EN6, EN8, EN11, EN12, EN13, EN14, EN15, EN16, EN22, EN26, EN28, EN30, SO1, LA10, LA12 and PR5 involves performing procedures to obtain evidence about the indicators. The procedures selected depend on professional judgment, including the assessment of the risk of material misstatement in the indicators mentioned above, whether due to fraud or error. In making those risk assessments, we considered internal control relevant to Brisa in the preparation and presentation of the indicators in order to design assurance procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances. Our engagement also included assessing the suitability of the criteria used by the Board of Directors of Brisa in preparing the indicators, as explained in the chapter “Report Profile” of the Report, evaluating the appropriateness of quantification methods, reporting of policies used and the reasonableness of the estimates made by Brisa. Amongst others, our procedures included: Interviews with senior management and relevant staff at group level and selected business unit level concerning the identification of the indicators presented above; Interviews with senior management and relevant staff at group level and selected business unit level concerning the preparation of the indicators; Evaluation of the systems used for collection, calculation and report of the indicators; and Recalculation of indicators at corporate level. • Limited assurance A limited assurance engagement on sustainability information consists of making inquiries, primarily of persons responsible for the preparation of information presented in the Report, and applying analytical and other evidence gathering procedures, as appropriate. These procedures included: Interviews with senior management and relevant staff at group level and selected business unit level to understand the processes implemented in Brisa to identify material issues for the relevant stakeholders; Interviews with senior management and relevant staff at group level and selected business unit level concerning sustainability strategy and relevant policies, and the implementation of these across the business; Interviews with relevant staff at corporate and business unit level responsible for providing the sustainability information in the Report.; Visits to sites and building works (Almodôvar, Leiria, Vendas Novas and building work of A3 Águas Santas/Maia/Sto. Tirso) selected on the basis of a risk analysis including the consideration of both quantitative and qualitative criteria; Comparing the information presented in the Report to corresponding information in the relevant underlying sources to determine whether all the relevant information contained in such underlying sources has been included in the Report; and Reading the information presented in the Report to determine whether it is in line with our overall knowledge of, and experience with, the sustainability performance of Brisa. The extent of evidence gathering procedures performed in a limited assurance engagement is less than that for a reasonable assurance engagement, and therefore a lower level of assurance is provided. 2 92 RELATÓRIO & CONTAS 2010 › 02 Concessões Rodoviárias Conclusion 5 Based on the procedures performed, as described above, we conclude that?: 5.1 The indicators EC1, EC8, EC9, EN4, EN5, EN6, EN8, EN11, EN12, EN13, EN14, EN15, EN16, EN22, EN26, EN28, EN30, SO1, LA10, LA12 and PR5 are presented in all material respects, in accordance with Sustainability Reporting Guidelines (G3), of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) as described in the chapter “Report Profile” of the Report. 5.2 Nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe that the sustainability information included in the Sustainability Report of Brisa, for the year ended 31 December 2010, is not presented fairly, in all material respects, in accordance with the Sustainability Reporting Guidelines (G3), of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) as described in the chapter “Report Profile” of the Report and in accordance with the principles of inclusiveness, materiality and response of the AA1000 Accountability Principles Standard 2008. 6 Our assurance report is made solely to Brisa in accordance with the terms of our engagement. Our work has been prepared only with the objective of stating to Brisa those matters we have been engaged to state in this assurance report and for no other purpose. We do not accept or assume responsibility to any third party other than Brisa for our work, for this assurance report, or for the conclusions we have reached. Lisbon, 23 March 2011 KPMG & Associados Sociedade de Revisores Oficiais de Contas, S.A. (r.º 189) represented by Joao Albino Cordeiro Augusto (ROC n.º 632) 3 More information regarding Social Responsibility can be found at www.brisa.pt Information requests should be addressed to contacto@brisa.pt or through phone number (+351) 21 444 85 00.
