GLOBAL COMPACT ANNUAL COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS Company Name Sebel Furniture Limited Date 17 December 2013 Unit (if applicable) 92 Gow Street Address PADSTOW NSW 2211 Country Australia Membership Date 20 January 2010 Contact Name Greg Welsh Number of Employees 165 Contact Position Chief Executive Officer Contact Telephone No 0419 443 999 Sector Manufacturing NATURE OF BUSINESS Sebel Furniture is one of Australia’s leading furniture manufacturers, specialising in the manufacture of indoor and outdoor furniture. The product range includes chairs, stools, auditorium/theatre and stadium seating, educational seating, educational furniture, tables and office seating. STATEMENT OF SUPPORT Sebel Furniture has been and will continue its commitment and endorsement of the ten principles of the UN Global Compact. We have been proactive in fully supporting these principles within the organization. Sebel prides itself by which we conduct our day-to-day activities with focus and attention to the extreme importance in promoting the highest standards in human rights, labour standards and anti-corruption. We work hard to reduce the adverse effects of our business activities on the environment as a priority. Sebel Furniture develops its policies, procedures and strategies for future operations with the ideals of the UN Global Compact principles. Sebel Furniture embraces its responsibility with regards to its activities impact on the environment and communities. Sebel Furniture proactively promotes its corporate social responsibility through our website and continue to implement measures to improve practices that support the Ten Principles of the UN Global Compact. GREG WELSH CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER SEBEL FURNITURE LIMITED 17 December 2012 GLOBAL COMPACT PRINCIPLES PRINCIPLE 1 Business should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights Our commitment or policy Sebel Furniture is committed to supporting all aspects of human rights. It is our policy to ensure that such rights are implemented for employees at all levels of our processes and activities, by promoting a culture of respect for the law, and respect of all members within our organisation and with others with whom we interact. A brief description of our processes or systems All employees have access to the company’s comprehensive complaints and resolution procedure; beginning with informal discussions with their line manager or supervisor to formal interviews and mediation with access to the highest levels of management within the company. Should the matter not be resolved to an individual’s satisfaction they can appeal at any stage. They retain the right to lodge the matter with any external tribunal dealing with employee arbitration and resolution. Actions implemented in the last year / planned for next year Commencing in late 2012, and moving forward into 2013 and all staff policies, processes and procedures have been revisited & reviewed. Sebel Furniture as necessary continually reviews its policies and procedures to ensure they are suitable, relevant and up-to-date to meet the needs of the employees and the requirements of the company. Sebel Furniture continues its consultation process between management and employee representatives. Measurable results or outcomes Sebel Furniture had again in 2012, no reports of discrimination in any form or human rights abuse in its workplace. PRINCIPLE 2 Business should ensure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses Our commitment or policy Sebel Furniture is dedicated to ensuring that they are not knowingly complacent in any Human Rights abuse. It is our policy to ensure that we do not associate, enter into a joint venture with any body, corporate, private or official whose actions are questionable in respect to Human Rights abuses. A brief description of our process or systems Prior to formulating any agreement with a contractor or supplier, Sebel Furniture will assess and research each organisation to ensure concurrence with its own policies and procedures. Where non-compliance is identified, no agreement will be entered into, or Sebel Furniture will work with that party to improve their business practices and worker safety. We have procedures in place for the assessment of new and existing contractors. Actions implemented in the last year / planned for next year As part of the KI Group, Sebel Furniture has utilised more resources in China to ensure proper practices are in place at all suppliers and are monitored more frequently. Measurable results or outcomes In the last year, no contractors were non-compliant in the area of human rights abuses or had contracts cancelled. PRINCIPLE 3 Business should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining Our commitment or policy Sebel Furniture recognises the rights of its employees and subcontractors to union membership and representation. In 2010 the Sebel Furniture Enterprise Agreement was passed. A brief description of our processes or systems All the general requirements of the award relating to hours of employment, holidays, sick and personal leave, worker’s compensation are adhered to by Sebel Furniture, and also outlined in the employee handbook that is provided to and signed by each new employee. Actions implementations in the last year / planned for next year In 2010 the Sebel Furniture Enterprise Agreement was passed. This remains in force until 31 July 2013. Measurable results or outcomes Staff turnover is extremely low and no disputes have arisen. Measurable results or outcomes There have been no disputes in relation to forced labour. Between Jan 2012 and November 2012 Staff Turnover is 18/165 Staff 2012 Turnover Perm Staff Jan -1 183 Feb -10 173 Mar +1 174 April -7 167 May -2 165 June -4 161 July 0 161 Aug 3 164 Sept 0 164 Oct 0 164 Nov +1 165 PRINCIPLE 4 Business should support the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour Our commitment and policy Sebel Furniture is fully committed to eliminating all forms of forced and or compulsory labour. Sebel Furniture will not consider working for or with any organisation or in any environment where forced labour is condoned. A brief description of our processes or systems All employees are contracted to work set hours at an agreed rate of pay and may terminate their employment with a mutually agreed notice period. Shifts can be rotated with others to ensure that no employee feels disadvantaged. Overtime is available but is not compulsory. Actions implemented last year / planned for next year In 2010 the Sebel Furniture Enterprise Agreement was passed. This remains in force until 31 July 2013. All employees affected by this Agreement were consulted and a “majority rules” system was implemented. PRINCIPLE 5 Business should support the effective abolition of child labour Our commitment and policy Sebel Furniture strongly supports the abolition of child labour. Sebel Furniture will not condone or be complacent in any matter concerning the use and abuse of children as workers. A brief description of our processes or systems Due to the nature of our business, no persons under the age of 16 years are contracted or employed by Sebel Furniture for any position whatsoever. Any apprentice coming into the system is required to be approaching the age of 17 years of age, and above. Actions implemented in the last year / planned for next year Following employment checklists and reviewing all potential suppliers ensured that Sebel Furniture did not employ, nor partner with an organisation that employed, on a full time basis, any person under the age of 16. Some of Sebel Furniture’s suppliers provided work at appropriate pay rates for children over 14 years of age, working after the completion of their daily schooling. Sebel Furniture actively seeks renewed confirmation from suppliers, demonstrating their support for the abolition of child labour. Measurable results or outcomes There have been no disputes regarding child labour nor any fines or judgements against Sebel Furniture in this regard. Sebel is unaware of any child labour abuses by any of its suppliers Sebel Furniture management has been active in the UNGLA promoting and speaking on Human rights and Labor. PRINCIPLE 6 Business should support the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation Our commitment or policy Sebel Furniture supports the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. A brief description of our processes and systems Sebel Furniture is committed to equal employment opportunity in all aspects of the employment policy including the selection, placement, training and promotion of all employees. Sebel Furniture does not discriminate on the grounds of race, sex, colour, religion, sexual orientation, national origin, age or disability. Sebel Furniture will ensure that no person is denied employment for reasons unrelated to ability. Actions implemented last year / planned for next year Commencing in late 2011, and moving forward, employment policies were reviewed and updated (where applicable) ensuring that equal employment processes were adhered to. Measurable results or outcomes As in previous years, Sebel Furniture has no judgments placed against the organization for discrimination in 2012 PRINCIPLE 7 Business should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges Our commitment or policy Sebel Furniture is committed to the protection of our environment and recycling where possible. Sebel Furniture accepts social and moral responsibility for a continual improvement of our impact on the environment based on legal and other obligations. A brief description of our processes and systems Sebel Furniture applies a common environmental management methodology throughout the company. We make conscious decisions to ensure the environment is a key consideration in all activities at Sebel Furniture. Actions implemented last year / planned for next year Sebel Furniture trained their staff in Environmental Awareness and motivated employees to understand their environmental responsibilities and to participate actively in all environmental programs. Sebel Furniture continues to make proactive efforts to assess its supply chain’s environmental impact and has visited forests in overseas locations to verify the use of plantation timbers. Sebel Furniture is continuing it push to FSC timbers in all key products. In consultation with environmental experts, Sebel Furniture has steadily been moving towards certification of its environmental management system to international standard ISO14001, since 2010. Measurable results or outcomes A common environmental management methodology has been implemented throughout the company, and received certification to ISO14001, in December 2012 PRINCIPLE 8 Business should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility Our commitment or policy Environmental protection and awareness is extremely important to Sebel Furniture. Sebel Furniture will not conduct any activity where the risk is significant in causing environmental damage. Sebel Furniture is a signatory of the Australian Packaging covenant. Sebel Furniture uses recycled materials across a large number of its products. A brief description of our processes or systems Environmental impact assessments are conducted prior to any new task or activity being introduced in the company. We are doing our part for the environment by implementing “green” practices that help minimise the overall ecological footprint and reduce landfill. We contribute to more sustainable practices by encouraging our customers to return old Sebel Furniture for recycling whereby old Sebel Furniture is ground down and turned into new Furniture, or utilized for internal componentry. Actions implemented in the last year / planned for next year Sebel Furniture recently reviewed all processes and identified where improvements could be made in the use of power and fuels. Sebel Furniture is a signatory to the Australian Packaging Covenant and meets its reduction responsibilities under this agreement. Sebel Furniture made proactive efforts to assess its supply chain’s environmental impact and has visited forests in overseas locations to verify the use of plantation timbers. Sebel Furniture is continuing its push to FSC timbers in all key products. Sebel Furniture continues on-site regrinding to ensure lowest cost recycling of waste materials and re-use in new products & components. Measurable outcomes or results Reductions in landfill due to recycling more products, and reduction in water and power usage. Waste removalists are now monitored and provide Sebel Furniture with volume reports on materials taken off-site, for recycling, reuse & disposal in landfill and other appropriate methods. At years end 36% of waste, by volume was diverted to recycling and this shall improve further in 2013, as various internal recycling programs are implemented. PRINCIPLE 9 Business should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies Our commitment or policy Sebel Furniture is constantly researching latest technologies to ensure we are using the most environmentally friendly systems possible. Sebel Furniture reuses post production waste in “recycle” products and components. A brief description of our processes or systems We are constantly challenged to improve the sustainability of the technologies and processes in the manufacture of our furnishings. Investigation of new and improved environmentally friendly technologies is paramount to our environmental success, and the engineering department is working closely with supply chain and R&D towards this objective. Sebel overseas suppliers are now required to supply E Zero furniture, which improves significantly the health of the works in the factories using these timbers. Sebel NATA Testing Lab Actions implemented in the last year / planned for next year Sebel is now ISO 14000 certified. Sebel Furniture has been investing in alternative and more environmentally friendly technologies. Sebel Furniture introduced in-house waste regrinding to permit the use of recycled materials on site. Sebel Furniture made proactive efforts to assess its supply chain’s environmental impact and has visited forests in overseas locations to verify the use of plantation timbers. Sebel Furniture is moving to FSC timbers in all key products. Sebel Furniture introduced on site regrinding to ensure lowest cost recycling of waste materials and re-use in new products. Sebel has introduced systematic for maldehyde testing or its wooden products to ensure safer raw material use at its suppliers and in its finished product. Measurable results or outcomes Reductions in landfill due to recycling more products and packaging and reduction in water and power usage due to introduction and training in new technologies. PRINCIPLE 10 Business should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery Our commitment or policy Sebel Furniture is committed to ensuring we are not involved in any corruption, extortion or bribery in any business dealings. A brief description of our processes or systems Sebel Furniture is a strong believer in ethical business practices and principles. Sebel Furniture has a zero tolerance for corruption and refuses to deal with organizations or individuals where this is active or apparent. Any conflicts of interest are investigated prior to any new projects. Actions implemented in the last year / planned for next year Continued vigilance and monitoring of all new projects, suppliers and employees takes place. Sebel Furniture provides staff with briefings and regular reminders to all staff in relation to Australian Trade Practices regulations. Sebel Senior Staff have been active participants in Anti Bribery protocols and meetings arranged by UN and UNGCA. Sebel Furniture management hold active discussions with all staff exposed to corruption and bribery. Sebel Furniture management through the UNGCA participation have provided resources to the UNGCA to help promote active management of Principle 10. Measurable results or outcomes In previous years, there was one event discovered where an overseas agent had solicited a commission from a supplier, and this has been dealt with and the relationship with that agent terminated. How do you intend to make this COP available to your stakeholders? As in previous years, this COP will be made available on the Sebel Furniture website. www.sebelfurniture.com
