United Nations Global Compact IFOK GmbH Communication of Progress 2012 Bensheim, 14.12.2012 UN Global Compact CoP 2012 Period covered by our COP: December 2011 – November 2012 Statement of Continued Support by our CEO We hereby declare that IFOK – located in Germany and Belgium – and with offices of its whollyowned American subsidiary, Meister Consultants Group (MCG) in Boston – continues to embrace the United Nations Global Compact and its ten principles, as well as to integrate the principles into our daily business activities. IFOK has participated in the initiative since August 2003. We strongly believe in the value of this global network and its emphasis on the enlightened selfinterest of all relevant social actors, including companies. Our Business IFOK is a change management consultancy offering expert analysis, strategy development, project implementation and communications services. Some 100 staff members work from our offices in Berlin, Bensheim, Düsseldorf, Munich, Brussels, and with MCG offices in Boston. In our change management work in order to strengthen sustainable development, we develop, facilitate and moderate dialogues between the public, private and third sector. We build on a stakeholder approach, recognising the essential role of stakeholders in strengthening the quality of advice we are able to provide our clients and in shaping change processes. The approach adopted towards our clients is also that which IFOK adopts towards its own stakeholders. We: • help clients from all three sectors of society to implement measures and improve social and environmental processes, with the very clear aim of turning responsibility into opportunity. • provide internal resources to educate employees on direct actions as well as on long-term goals of sustainability. • support suppliers and partners with defined guidelines on sourcing and delivery. • build relationships with the media so as to further sustainability goals. Our Commitment We perceive environmental and social challenges as opportunities for private enterprise to provide innovative and entrepreneurial solutions towards sustainable development. Thus, in our consulting activities, we help our clients and other stakeholders to continuously “raise the bar” within the sustainability paradigm. Following our 2011 COP Report, we are happy to now be reporting on our continued and new activities in all four areas Human Rights, Labor, Environment and Anti-Corruption including information on measurement of outcomes. December 2012, Dr. Hans-Peter Meister, CEO IFOK GmbH 1 UN Global Compact CoP 2012 PART I: HUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPLES Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2: Business should make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Assessment, Policies and Goals: At IFOK, we adhere to the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and to national laws. Moreover, we have established some guidelines and policies that underline the company's devotion to the Human Rights principles. For 2013, IFOK GmbH has set the goal to perform an internal review of potential field of actions and develop advanced measures of implementation as seen appropriate. Our goal is to maintain our zero abuse record and to continue to be an attractive and responsible employer. Implementation: IFOK GmbH enforced a set of policies regarding Human Rights policies. IFOK has published an Employee Handbook, which details employees’ rights, duties and resources within the organization. The IFOK handbook includes policies regarding stress and overtime regulations, pregnancy, illness, health as well as guidelines related to professional ethics, best management practices and standard processes and procedures. The documents are accessible at our company’ s own Wiki system and continuously revised. Parentalleave as one example: IFOK GmbH fully supports its employees to take advantage of parental-leave schemes. In 2012, 4 employees have taken that opportunity. Moreover, IFOK was contracted to support and facilitate a multistakeholder working group on Business and Human Rights initiated by the German Ministry of Labor. Furthermore, our organization has been active in promoting human rights within the activities of our business partners and clients by advising them on human rights issues and measures to respect, protect and promote human rights. Measurement of Outcomes: IFOK GmbH is a strong believer in participatory governance and participation. On a regular and structured basis, IFOK employees are asked to give feedback, raise complaints and issues and share ideas for improvement. We actively support a culture of trust and organizational learning. IFOK GmbH has received no complaints from employees, business partners or clients in relation to (potential) human rights violations, nor was the organization involved in any human rights incidences before or during the reporting period. IFOK GmbH 2 UN Global Compact CoP 2012 Because of the scope of our activities and the limited number of employees, an external audit on human rights performance is not seen as required. IFOK GmbH 3 UN Global Compact CoP 2012 Part II: LABOR PRINCIPLES Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Assessment, Policies and Goals: IFOK GmbH adheres strictly to all required labor rights, including non-discrimination and equal opportunities, the freedom of association and right to collective bargaining, workplace health and safety, as well as conditions of employment and work (wages, working hours, leave, benefits etc). IFOK is an equal opportunities employer who evaluates its employees by merits only and not on grounds of gender, sexual orientation, race or religion. In addition, IFOK has developed further policies and measures to underline our strong belief that our employees are the most valuable asset of the company and should be able to unfold their full potential as individuals and members of the team. Implementation: Promoting workplace health and safety IFOK adheres to all national laws and regulation concerning workplace health and safety. For example: Annual check of all electric devices (UV BGV A3), annual meeting with experts on health and safety, annual on-sight review with experts, regular FirstAid training and offer to employees for eyesight check-ups. In addition, IFOK provides the best possible office equipment to its employees to cater to special health and illness prevention needs. Furthermore we offer free fresh fruit and beverages in our offices to promote healthy nutrition. Creating a modern working environment IFOK promotes family friendly working-conditions and career opportunities for women well beyond the average numbers or quotas in management consultancy sixty four percent of our workforce and forty seven percent of our senior management are female. In 2012 one-third of our employees currently work part-time; of those about two thirds are female and one third are male. IFOK has developed family-friendly work schemes to facilitate a healthy work-life balance, including teleworking, part-time work opportunities and extended return programmes for stay-athome parents. In 2012, 2 employees took advantage of our sabbatical scheme. IFOK GmbH 4 UN Global Compact CoP 2012 Professional Development Activities In 2012, IFOK trains five young professionals in twoto threeyear formal, paid apprenticeship programmes. Continuing the high standards and extensive variety of professional development opportunities offered to our employees has been a core goal of our company. Thus, we have taken a number of important measures to further enhance this important process of professional improvement and development. We continually improve the offerings of the IFOK Academy, our internal training and development programme. In 2012, IFOK was able to offer more than thirty training courses in the areas: methods, client relations, leadership, learning organisations and self-management and facilitated 10 Lunch&Learn sessions. Moreover, IFOK supports a PhDScholarship scheme in cooperation with the Hertie School of Governance in Berlin, our CEOs engage in various external training and mentorship programs. IFOK has been able to continue its offering of dedicated and tailor-made education programmes for employees, continuing to teach core skills necessary for our work and in this way to wisely use the available time and resources during slower project periods. These training offerings are predominantly hosted by IFOK staff, facilitating knowledge flows within the organisation as well as offering personal and professional development for those hosting these events as well as to the participants. With the wealth of learning and on-the-job-training offered by IFOK to its employees a key feature of our success and our ability to attract the most important talents for our business, it has been important for IFOK to maintain and enlarge the portfolio of these offerings. Improving the quality of work through an open culture and promotion of diversity We lay emphasis on an open corporate culture, which allows for mistakes to be made and that promotes the strengths of each member of the IFOK team. Participation is a core principle that guides us both in our work with clients and internally, as are open communication, regular and structures feedback and appraisal mechanisms, all of which are actively practiced at IFOK. We are signatory of the initiative “Diversity as an Opportunity”which was launched by Maria Böhmer, Minister of State in the Federal Chancellery and Federal Government Commissioner for Migration, Refugees, and Integration. The aim of implementing the ‘ Charter for Diversity’within our company is to create a working environment that is free of prejudice. All our employees should experience appreciation – regardless of gender, race, nationality, ethnicity, religion or philosophy of life, disability, age, sexual orientation or identity. Recognising and promoting this diverse potential creates economic advantages for our company. We actively work to create a climate of acceptance and mutual trust. This has positive consequences for the recognition we receive from our partners and customers, both here in Germany and in other countries throughout the world. IFOK GmbH 5 UN Global Compact CoP 2012 Promoting a network structure within the company In 2011, IFOK has advanced significantly in furthering and strengthening its network structure and processes. Structuring the company in a networked manner, rather than by departments etc., presents IFOK with the unique opportunity to utilise the benefits of flexible structures, tailored teams, information exchange and diversity for our projects and clients. It also offers us valuable insights and opportunities with relevance for our work to implement societal change – change which requires a networked approach. In striving to transfer these opportunities and principles of a networked society and networked systems into our business practises and into every staff member’ s daily routine, we engage as individuals and as groups in continuous learning, promote each employees strength. In addition, IFOK is putting in place processes and offers spaces for joint learning and innovation, including through the IFOK Campus – the annual company-wide retreat and training event. Measurement of Outcomes: IFOK GmbH is a strong believer in participatory governance and participation. On a regular and structured basis, IFOK employees are asked to give feedback, raise complaints and issues and share ideas for improvement. We actively support a culture of trust and organizational learning. In 2012, IFOK started a cooperation with the US-based Institute of Strategic Clarity. As a first project, we conducted a survey amongst all employees to assess and analyse the working environment at IFOK and especially understand the quality of relationships within the organisation. Based on the results, IFOK underlines and supports the crucial importance of relationships to contribute not only to better employee satisfaction but also to better business results. Based on the objective to eliminate discrimination and promoting organisational learning and feedback, IFOK is constantly reviewing its project feedback schemes and other feedback mechanisms within its network-based structure. Every year, each employee engages in structured interviews and discussion with their direct reports to set and discuss professional goals and assess personal strengths and opportunities for improvement. Those discussions are guided by the IFOK “wheel of competences”, a tool to assess talents and personal performance. Furthermore, on the project level, a project feedback scheme consists of an institutionalised exchange between project management. IFOK GmbH 6 UN Global Compact CoP 2012 IFOK GmbH has received no grievances or complaints from employees, the external advisory board or others in relation to (potential) labor rights violations, nor was the organization involved in any labor rights incidences before or during the reporting period. IFOK GmbH 7 UN Global Compact CoP 2012 Part III: ENVIRONMENT Principle 7: Business should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility, and; Principle 9: Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Assessment, Policies and Goals: Our contribution to environmental solutions is guided by strict internal policies and continued innovation and improvement. We adhere to national and international standards to advance responsibility in environmental matters. We also promote energy efficiency, waste avoidance and recycling as core elements of our daily business practice among our employees. In 2012, an internal working group was launched to develop a coherent and ambitious IFOK Sustainability Strategy and initiate projects and activities to make IFOK a leading innovator and implementer of sustainability solutions. Implementation: Activities to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and waste With carbon dioxide being the primary cause of human-induced global warming, we work to analyze, identify and substitute our impact as much as possible. • We have a travel and car policy that aims to reducing greenhouse gas emissions. Our employees are required to use the most environment-friendly means of transportation whenever possible primarily public transport. Again in 2012, IFOK supports the use of public transport by financing reduced pricing schemes (BahnCard 50) to replace or reduce airtravel. Since those schemes are available to employees also for private use, thus making public transport attractive for • IFOK demands that all company cars be used in accordance with the European Union standards for fuel consumption and CO2 emissions. Some company cars are pooled and available on a per needs basis. Company cars are leased, and we make sure that they are equipped with the best available filter technology to reduce emissions of fine particulate dust. • IFOK continued to improve a system for telephone and video conferences for internal meeting across offices as well as with clients. This initiative has allowed us to reduce the number of travelled kilometres, including domestic and transatlantic flights and thus has contributed significantly to the reduction of IFOK’s greenhouse gas emissions. • The office heating system is centrally steered and adapts, together with the lighting and blinds system, to the outside conditions, helping reduce energy consumption. IFOK GmbH 8 UN Global Compact CoP 2012 • At IFOK we build awareness to reduce our waste creation and printing activities by promoting double-sided printing. From 2012, we only procure high-efficiency and sustainable printers to further reduce our environmental footprint. For office printing, we exclusively use 100% degradable and recyclable paper that is certified totally chlorine free, licensed by the Nordic Swan and certified by ISO 9001 and 14001as well as licensed by FSC. • In 2012, IFOK started to increase our sustainable procurement measures by switching to certified supply providers. Office materials are chosen according to environmentally friendly purchasing guidelines. • In 2012, IFOK changed for all its offices in Germany our energy supply to a 100% renewable energy provider. • In 2012, IFOK started to switch all its mail correspondence to a green-mailing provider that compensates CO2 emissions by investments in climate-friendly projects. • IFOK lays great importance on the use of organic, wholefoods and regional products in our offices. We believe in the merit of unprocessed and local foods and offer these, especially as fruit that is offered to customers and employees free of charge in our offices. Most of our fruit is from organic sources (coffee, milk, fruits). In addition we also purchase regional products, such as fruit and drinks, via local suppliers. Actions to disseminate greater environmental responsibility For the planning and facilitation of our events and those of our clients and partners, we adhere to guidelines for environmentally-friendly events“ by the German Ministry of the Environment „Leitfaden für die umweltgerechte Organisation von Veranstaltungen“. We work to reduce the use of resources, prioritize regional and seasonal products for catering, and prioritize venues that are easily accessible by public transport. Furthermore, we consult our clients on how to compensate for CO2-emissions caused by events. Activities to encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. For several years, IFOK and MCG have been working in the field of promoting and incentivizing the diffusion of renewable energy technologies. • In 2012, we continued our efforts and have been engaged in working with several governments and business worldwide to assess opportunities to promote the diffusion of renewable energy technologies. IFOK/MCG continues to be very active in the field of designing and sharing knowledge on feed in tariff schemes in several countries around the globe. • Furthermore, in 2012 IFOK and MCG have been engaged in several projects and activities for our clients to develop their sustainability strategy, design sustainability IFOK GmbH 9 UN Global Compact CoP 2012 initiatives and to implement activities. One of our projects, the “German Mobility and Fuel Strategy” was awarded as the first “Landmark Project of the German Sustainability Strategy”. • On a voluntary basis, IFOK serves as an expert on participatory processes to promote synergies between science, government, business and civil society in the context of environmentally friendly and sustainable technologies. For example, in 2012 IFOK increased it’ s engagement in the Committee on Technology and Society of the Association of German Engineers (Verein Deutscher Ingenieure, VDI) as a member and advisor on participatory processes and in the expert group for sustainability research. Measurement of Outcomes: Via our intranet we are able to facilitate an exchange between employees amongst each other on suggestions and best-practises within the office surroundings. Our continuous improvement system is also a well received and actively used forum for improvements and innovative suggestions to help reduce our environmental impact and to reward environmental responsibility. The results are communicated and when necessary awareness programs for employees initiated. • Fuel consumption and CO2 emissions form company cars are recorded. • IFOK constantly continues to investigate trends and develop strategies to engage in cooperative processes to further public and private sector efforts towards sustainable development IFOK GmbH 10 UN Global Compact CoP 2012 Part IV: ANTI-CORRUPTION Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery Assessment, Policies and Goals: IFOK GmbH and our employees do not accept any form of corruption and work against bribery and extortion. Therefore, neither employees nor members of the management team accept remuneration outside of the agreed quotation unless it is formally agreed upon. For 2013, IFOK has set the goal to perform an internal review of potential field of actions and develop advanced measures of implementation as seen appropriate. Implementation: IFOK GmbH only accepts assignments which are within the range of our expertise and experience and are compatible with our vision and mission. Should an assignment move in a direction that is inconsistent with our vision and mission, we discuss this with the client and, if necessary, withdraw from the assignment. IFOK strongly supports transparency in all its engagements with all clients and enforces open communication to prevent conflicts of interests. In cases where conflicts of interest might occur, IFOK will if necessary, withdraw from the assignment. Measurement of Outcomes: There have been no cases of corruption in the line of our work over the course of the organization’ s existence. If such a situation might arise, IFOK GmbH will take appropriate action and ultimately withdraw from the assignment. The situation will be evaluated afterwards. IFOK GmbH 11
