GLOBAL COMPACT ANNUAL COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS – Phoenix Design Aid A/S Phoenix Design Aid A/S Date: 17.04.2012 Østergade 19 DK-8900 Randers C, Denmark Membership date: 29. November 2007 Number of employees: 16 Dennis L. Nielsen Managing Director +45 2141 0906 Sector: Graphic Design and Production Brief description of nature of business Phoenix Design Aid is a full-service supplier of total solutions for a broad spectrum of graphic communication services, design, production and print products – from initiation, concept development to finished products and distribution to clients all over the world. Our business has progressed and it now includes development and establishment of stands. In that connection Phoenix Design Aid was the sender of ‘the African pavilion’ at COP 17 in Durban, South Africa in December 2011. Watch the video about the stand: The African Pavilion. The creativity and knowledge used to develop the concept was local but the actual project was completed in South Africa. We are proud that our expertise regarding communication, project management and sustainability has affected the global climate effort in a positive way. Phoenix Design Aid is specialized in working with international and intergovernmental organizations, UN Agencies, NGOs and public authorities. Our mission is to work globally and to assist international partners in the graphic process. We are accredited in the fields of quality (ISO 9001), environment (ISO14001), occupational health and safety management (OHSAS 18001) and CSR (DS49001, and are CO2 neutral certified as well. Phoenix Design Aid is specialised in project management and all actual production is done by our partners in both Denmark and third world countries, among others Vietnam and India. We have established contractual partnerships with some of the most experienced companies within the areas of graphic design and printing. When Phoenix Design Aid cooperates with our clients, whether on small or large assignments, a project manager from our office is assigned to the project, and we set the right team from amongst our staff and trusted partners, which ensures that we have the best competencies in place to bring the specific assignment to a successful conclusion. With our extensive experience in this line of work we want to contribute to increased trading between Danish companies and the UN and thereby contribute to increased quality, development of more jobs and a better environment in the third world. Statement of support During 2011 Phoenix Design Aid has continued our strong focus on CSR activities. As a result of this we were certified after the CSR standard DS 49001 in the middle of June 2011 as the first graphic company in the world. DS 49001 management system is in compliance with the ISO 26000 CSR guideline and moreover, contains a management part and an obligation to continuous improvement. A range of the subjects, which we have committed our selves to control, are consistent with the 10 1 principles in Global Compact – and our commitments extend even further. Below is a table with all subjects in the standard shown: An outline of subjects within social responsibility in DS 49001 and ISO 26000: Organization Management Dialogue with stakeholders The management’s composition and organizing Risk management and due diligence Decision-making processes and structures Human Rights Civil and political rights Economic, social and cultural rights Discrimination and exposed groups Complaint management, and avoidance of accomplice Situations of risks regarding human rights Fundamental employee rights Working Conditions Terms of employment Work conditions and social protection Social dialogue Health and safety at work Development opportunities at work Environment (6.5) Prevention of pollution and promoting of cleaner technology Sustainable use of resources Fight against and adjustments regarding climate changes Protection and re-establishment of the nature Animal welfare Good Business Practice (6.6) Anti-corruption Responsible participation in politics Fair competition Promoting social responsibility in the value chain Respect for property right Consumer Conditions) Responsible marketing, information and contractual terms Protection of the consumers’ health and safety Sustainable consumption Customer support and complaint management Protection of consumer information and privacy Access to basic benefits Education for conscious consumers Local Involvement of Society and Development Local involvement of society Education and culture Creation of jobs and development of competences Development of and access to technology Wealth and income generation Investments in local societies 2 Our CSR system, which is fully incorporated in our additional management systems (ISO 9001, ISO 14001, OHSAS 18001 and the climate neutralization), is based on our long-standing membership and great experiences with the UN Global Compact. Our system also includes involvement of our stakeholders and an obligation to communicate on CSR and Global Compact. Furthermore, the DS 49001certification demands that we influence our business partners and thereby make them think and act in compliance with the principles of CSR. Moreover, we demand that our suppliers comply with significant conditions within the area of corporate social responsibility. Through partnerships we seek and work hard to influence and guide our suppliers and subcontractors to ameliorate their working environments and environmental concern giving our clients the possibility to acquire environmentally friendly, sound products and services. Each year we are subject to an external certification of DVN (Det Norske Vertitas) to ensure that our company is developing continuously. Our CSR policy supports and adheres to The UN Global Compact and our main CSR philosophy is as follows: • show respect towards people, animals and the environment in all our professional work • Set ambitious goals for social responsibility, environmental concern, quality, and working environment • Comply with laws and regulations in all countries where we work. This Communication on Progress describes our initiatives and actions for the year 2011 as well as our plans and goals for 2012. Our main focus will be on areas that correspond to our areas of expertise. As a consequence of our CSR certification, our efforts to act sustainable and in accordance with Global Compact will intensify even more the following years. Signature Dennis Lundø Nielsen Position Managing Director 3 PRINCIPLE 1: BUSINESS SHOULD SUPPORT AND RESPECT THE PROTECTION OF INTERNATIONALLY PROCLAIMED HUMAN RIGHTS Our Commitment or Policy Phoenix Design Aid gives a high priority to our social responsibility and wishes to ensure equal opportunities for all employees at our head office in Randers to our offices in Copenhagen, Geneva, New York and Mumbai. Our strategy is international but the execution is local. Our corporate social responsibility is implemented, among others, by preventing discrimination and the great support of international conventions. A brief description of our Processes or Systems Since Phoenix Design Aid has offices in different parts of the world we employ humans with different cultural backgrounds, religious beliefs etc. Therefore we do our very best to ensure that our employees are not exposed to discrimination and to ensure equal possibilities and conditions for all employees. Our internal relations are in compliance with general law and human rights and we place high demands on all our business partners both locally and in foreign countries. We do not wish to contribute to any violation of the human rights and therefore we have implemented an investigative process toward all over partners in countries where these violations might occur. Actions implemented in the last year / planned for next year To ensure the above we have drawn up a training plan which guides our employees and makes sure that our employees trade their knowledge, experience and working routine. More specifically this plan is carried out in connection with internal courses, where e.g. graphic designers sit down together to learn from each other and get a feel of each other’s cultures and backgrounds. When our managing director and members of the Danish staff travel around the world visiting partners we introduce our company concept and explain how we manage corporate social responsibility in Denmark. We have implemented a traffic policy with the purpose to have joint guidelines for business trips and traffic and hereby achieve the most secure traffic for the employees and the best possible arrangement of trips. Furthermore, the travel and traffic safety policy has to increase the employees’ attention and responsibility in the traffic and regarding business trips for the purpose of own safety. Measurable Results or Outcomes Our training plan is evaluated each year and we draw up concrete goals for the coming year. In 2011 we have visited new potential partners in Vietnam introducing them to the concept and our expectations to a future partnership. We have also introduced all new client (to whom it was relevant) to our Webproof system and we also conducted a full week of training, teaching our customers how to use Adobe InDesign. PRINCIPLE 2: BUSINESS SHOULD ENSURE THAT THEY ARE NOT COMPLICIT IN HUMAN RIGHTS ABUSES Our Commitment or Policy Phoenix Design Aid chooses our clients, business partners and sub contractors by conducting a positive assessment of these partners to ensure that they act in compliance with human rights. We do not cooperate with any partners who do not meet this demand. A brief description of our Processes or Systems Our internal conditions are regulated by the local legislation, which is in accordance with the human rights. We are regularly in dialogue with our subcontractors and partners regarding respecting human rights. They are informed that violation of the human rights will result in ending the cooperation. 4 Actions implemented in the last year / planned for next year In 2011 Phoenix Design Aid outlined a Code of Conduct, which is described in a folder that is distributed to all significant contractors and business partners. The Code of Conduct is also the agenda when we are visiting or in some other way is in contact with our business partners. We expect that our Code of Conduct is going to be examined carefully with our significant stakeholders by 2012. We also supported the ‘The World’s Best News’ in 2011 and again in 2012. The World’s Best News is a Danish campaign formed by the UN, Danida and more than 70 Danish aid organizations. They purpose is to inform Danes that The Millennium Development Goals are a success: The developing countries are making huge progress. Furthermore Phoenix Design Aid pays our support to the Nelson Mandela Foundation. During spring 2012 we are contributing to the production of a Nelson Mandela Bangles book with the purpose to create more local jobs in the African countries. We are planning to support the foundation with a large amount by handling the prepress and printing of the book free of charge. The printing will be executed by a Middle East company. Measurable Results or Outcomes As a result of our CSR certificate we have installed a program that reports violations of the human rights. In 2011 there have not been any reports. Our support to the World’s Best News campaign 2011 has resulted in progress. Many challenges still remain but the fact is that we are able to end extreme poverty within a couple of decades. PRINCIPLE 3: BUSINESS SHOULD UPHOLD THE FREEDOM OF ASSOCIATION AND THE EFFECTIVE RECOGNITION OF THE RIGHT TO COLLECTIVE BARGAINING Our Commitment or Policy All employees at Phoenix Design Aid A/S are members of trade unions. This means that the employees are aware of their rights to freedom of association and can spare with the trade unions in case this is required. Phoenix Design Aid A/S support our employees’ rights of freedom of association and right to collective bargaining, including our employees’ rights to form, join or not join a labor union or other organizations of their choice, and to bargain collectively in support of their mutual interests without fear of punitive actions such as intimidation, harassment or termination of employment. A brief description of our Processes or Systems We strongly suggest our employees to obtain memberships with trade unions/ covered by collective bargaining agreements in order for the employees to be covered best possible. Actions implemented in the last year / planned for next year At contract formation Phoenix Design Aid A/S encourages the employee to be covered if not already done. Measurable Results or Outcomes All employees are covered by trade union memberships or collective bargaining agreements. PRINCIPLE 4: BUSINESS SHOULD SUPPORT THE ELIMINATION OF ALL FORMS OF FORCED AND COMPULSORY LABOUR Our Commitment or Policy At Phoenix Design Aid a responsible way of doing business is just as important as good earnings. We strive to have an open and straightforward dialogue with our employees, clients, business partners, and the society we live in. In this way we make sure to break down the challenges we get of our increasingly international business in a decent and responsible manner. When coordinating our work we always consider how best to respect human beings and the nature. Phoenix Design Aid takes pride 5 in being a workplace, where our employees feel at ease. In cooperation with our staff and business partners Phoenix Design Aid will at all times:  Show respect for humans, animals and nature in all our actions  Aim at the highest standards regarding quality and working environment and at reducing the environmental impact caused by production  Observe current legislation and regulations in all countries in which we operate  Inform, engage and motivate all parties involved to feeling a joint responsibility for our policy A brief description of our Processes or Systems Phoenix Design Aid A/S doesn’t allow forced labor in any form including bonded labor, indentured labor, slave labor, or human trafficking. Our employees are allowed to move around freely and leave their place of work when their shift ends. Furthermore, Phoenix Design Aid will not ask workers to submit their original identity papers or any other original official documentation or to pay a deposit as part of their conditions of employment. Actions implemented in the last year / planned for next year During the annual board meeting the labor guidelines will be examined and updated if required. Phoenix Design Aid A/S doesn’t work with suppliers that do not adhere to UN Global Compact’s principles and these principles will be incorporated into new partnership agreements made. Phoenix Design Aid has implemented a registration system that maps the suppliers working environment, which is used in the total supplier evaluation. Measurable Results or Outcomes We have a strong insight into our suppliers working environment and we are continuously in dialogue with both suppliers and partners. We demand that they support the UN Global Compact or that they at least adhere to the 10 universal principles. PRINCIPLE 5: BUSINESS SHOULD SUPPORT THE EFFECTIVE ABOLITION OF CHILD LABOUR Our Commitment or Policy We do not accept the hiring of child labor under any circumstances. The minimum age for full-time employment is 15 or the legal minimum age for employment, whichever is greater unless the local minimum working age is 14 and in accordance with the ILO exception for developing countries, where minimum working age is accepted under the previously mentioned conditions. A brief description of our Processes or Systems In line with our DS 49001 CSR and OHSAS 18001:2008 certifications Phoenix Design Aid A/S doesn’t allow any kind of child labor. This applies to business partners, our sub contractors, clients and us. In our CSR (DS 49001) system we have established procedures on how to single out these partners and if the least suspicion of child labor occurs we investigate the situation before initiating cooperation with the partner in question. Actions implemented in the last year / planned for next year The Phoenix Design Aid code of conduct describes an expectation to follow rules, laws and international standards, which also includes the use of child labour. By implementing our code of conduct we will have yet a reason to raise the topic of child labour in the on-going dialogue with our partners. Measurable Results or Outcomes The management has not been informed of child labor. In relations to our Code of Conduct we have implemented a questionnaire and a registration system enabling us to follow up on any incidents and 6 to initiate preventive actions when working with our partners. The system ensures a qualified and professional dialogue with both suppliers and clients. In 2011 we were selected as UNICEF ambassadors in Randers, Denmark 2011, and we have supported activities that fight for the rights of children and initiatives that give financial aid to UNICEF. PRINCIPLE 6: BUSINESS SHOULD SUPPORT THE ELIMINATION OF DISCRIMINATION IN RESPECT OF EMPLOYMENT AND OCCUPATION Our Commitment or Policy We comply with the legal provisions on equal treatment regardless of sex, age, health condition, ethnic and social origin, religion or belief, union membership, financial or other personal circumstances, prohibition of sexual and other harassment at work and other legal provisions. We provide for equal and non-discriminatory treatment in all segments of activities involving people. In line with our DS 49001 CSR and OHSAS 18001:2008 certification Phoenix Design Aid A/S doesn’t allow any kind of discrimination. This includes that no employees must experience any form of discrimination based on race, color, gender, language, religion, political or other opinion, caste, national or social origin, property, birth, union affiliation, sexual orientation, health status, age, disability, or other distinguishing characteristics. A brief description of our Processes or Systems We do think that we have created a good working environment and we always look for ways to improve. We wish to ensure that we do not discriminate against employees because of ethnic background, gender, age, sexual orientation or religion. We believe that diversity is a strength that helps to ensure our access to the most talented employees. In addition, we have employed people from all over the world to produce our work, hereunder Danes, Greeks, Indians, Dutchmen, etc. In Phoenix Design Aid the division between male and female employees is also equal. Actions implemented in the last year / planned for next year We have implemented a registration system enabling us to follow up on any incidents and to initiate preventive actions. The system ensures a qualified and professional dialogue with our suppliers and clients. Measurable Results or Outcomes No incidents have been reported. Several new employees have been engaged last year and the ratio of men versus women is now five to five. PRINCIPLE 7: BUSINESS SHOULD SUPPORT A PRECAUTIONARY APPROACH TO ENVIRONMENTAL CHALLENGES Our Commitment or Policy In relation to our environmental politic we have set goals for the environmental improvements we wish to achieve and we make sure to check that we reach them. We will:  Be up-to-date with the recent developments of improved technological solutions in our industry  Continually carry out environmental improvements  Inform our customers of Phoenix Design Aid's environmental work and motivate them to choose products and services with less strain on the environment preferably carrying an environmental label  Communicate in an open manner about our environmental policy and goals ISO 14001 is the internationally approved standard for environmental management. Phoenix Design Aid has been certified by DNV for pursuing environmental-friendly production and having defined a 7 company policy on the environmental issues. In addition, it is to great importance for Phoenix Design Aid that we continue to minimize our CO2 emission. As a company we put great focus on our social responsibilities and we want to lead the way for a green and climate friendly world. Our latest initiative was to be a certified CO2 neutral company and thereby being able to offer even greener graphic production and communication services. Being a low carbon company is a very important aspect to our environmental positioning. Our carbon footprint has been calculated according to the principles of The Greenhouse Gas Protocol (GHG Protocol); and by purchasing UN issued emission credits we neutralize our consumption. Our certification is in line with international standards and UN procedures and is verified by the approved certification entity CO2focus. The most important environmental burdens in graphical production are the use of paper, printing ink and printing varnishes. Phoenix Design Aid has developed an action plan to reduce the environmental threats in the graphical process. We only collaborate with external suppliers and cooperatives with documented environmental policies. All employees at Phoenix Design Aid are concerned about the environment and act according to the company’s internal environmental policies. A brief description of our Processes or Systems  Our environmental policy  ISO 14001 certified  CO2 Neutral Certified  The establishment of a score system for environmentally engaged suppliers and a constant dialogue through regular suppliers assessments (cf. our CSR certification DS 49001) Actions implemented in the last year / planned for next year We have prolonged our commitment to be CO2 neutral and have been certified again in 2011 and we participate in meetings for Caring for Climate signatories. Measurable Results or Outcomes We have neutralized our CO2 emission and have been certified by CO2 focus for 2011. We actively participate in Caring for Climate events trying to come up with suggestions for protection the environment. We produce eco-friendly/ CO2 neutral products and our website is CO2neutral, so the many visitors will not burden the environment with CO2 emission. We do not have the result of our CO2 emission for 2011 but we expect a great improvement in the company’s total CO2 emissions. Phoenix Design Aid is an extremely sustainable business and we only cooperates with print houses that take the necessary environmentally concerns. In 2011 92% of our business partners in the area of printing are eco-friendly and we are working towards reaching 100%. PRINCIPLE 8: BUSINESS SHOULD UNDERTAKE INITIATIVES TO PROMOTE GREATER ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY Our Commitment or Policy The environment is of great importance to Phoenix Design Aid. Therefore we set high demands when it comes to both our own and also partners’ environmentally concerns and we continuously work to inspire our partners to improve in that area. Actions implemented in the last year / planned for next year Phoenix Design Aid has been a major sponsor for ARTDOORS (www.artdoors.dk) and have 2 contributed to raise resources in order to buy 2.000.000 m rainforest in Ecuador and planting more 8 than 4000 trees in new climate forests in Denmark. The idea behind ARTDOORS is to give the forest a little bit back of what we have borrowed. Therefore, voluntary artists transformed old second-hand doors into new, unique art pieces, which are sold in order to raise the necessary capital to reach ARTDOORS’ goal. Besides the climate gain, the project ensures a livelihood for local inhabitants in the rainforest and moreover, it contributes to the preservation of the rainforest’s unique fauna and biodiversity. Phoenix Design Aid has introduced the ARTDOORS project to one of our large customers, UNEP (United Nations Environmental Programme), who works on promoting environmental initiatives. As a result of this, ARTDOORS has been represented at UNEP’s stand at the acknowledged international th climate week in Hamburg 23-30 of September (www.klimawoche.de). Before the event we had put a huge effort into planning and coordinating the representation of ARTDOORS at the stand. It was a unique opportunity to be able to participate at the climate fair in cooperation with one of the large international environment organizations and thereby, spread the message about ARTDOORS among the many visitors. This has also meant that we had to respond to a number of directions in the collaboration with UNEP and in that connection Phoenix Design Aid provided labor force. Additionally, Phoenix Design Aid has on behalf of ARTDOORS ensured that all rules and expectations of both UNEP and the organizer of the fair were respected and met. Furthermore, we have sponsored the project by paying the expense of the print of posters and a flyer, which was distributed at the stand. Moreover, Phoenix Design Aid paid the shipment of their own personal bought ARTDOOR, which visually represented the project at the stand. Our involvement in the ARTDOOR project was our contribution to the World Environmental Day 2011. We have continued our membership of FSC Denmark to promote responsible forest management worldwide and we have been in dialogue with our Lebanese partner (a printing company) giving them suggestions on how to obtain FSC certification. We are in dialogue with the Danish embassy in Vietnam in order to locate a qualified graphic design agency for a strategic partnership that, among other things, includes an exchange of experiences regarding eco-friendly production methods and approaches. Phoenix Design Aid has a huge network of clients, suppliers and other partners who are interested in knowing how we have integrated both CSR and the environment as a part of our business strategy. We participate in a lot of meetings and conferences presenting Phoenix Design Aid, our corporate social responsibility and how we work in compliance with the 10 principles of UN Global Compact in order to spread our knowledge on the subject. We have also produced two films introducing Phoenix Design Aid, our concern for the environment, corporate social responsibility, and how we comply with the 10 principles of UN Global Compact. One of the films was specifically produced for one of our clients – UNEP – who invited us to show a video presentation of the company’s green engagement at a large screen at their stand during the COP 17 conference in Durban. We have also:  Neutralized the emission of CO2 from our websites.  Given financial support to The Sheldrick Wildlife Trust in Nairobi, Kenya.  Joined The Climate Neutral Network, which was a global campaign led by the United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP) to promote climate neutrality. Unfortunately this network is now closed and we are in the process of finding suitable alternatives.  Joined the State of Green network (www.stateofgreeen.com) an official platform for energy, climate adaptation and environmental activities in Denmark. 9 Measurable Results or Outcomes  We lead the way in eco-friendly publication design and production; hence most if not all productions are produced in an environmentally friendly manner.  We have joined the Danish association of CO2 neutral websites  2 Contributed to raise resources in order to buy 2.000.000 m rainforest in Ecuador and planting more  We have communicated on Corporate Social Responsibility and Phoenix Design Aid values to the local, national and international press and have registered 35 features on the subject.  We have completed 25 interviews, meetings and conferences on Phoenix Design Aid, our corporate social responsibility and the 10 principles of UN Global Compact. Among others we have participated in a Danish Delegation to Vietnam where we did a presentation on Phoenix Design Aid, our corporate social responsibility and the 10 principles of UN Global Compact at a round table meeting with local NGOs.  We have produced two films that describe our CSR work and climate activities. http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4GZvE4eL4Ws http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6oFY5kcog1s PRINCIPLE 9: BUSINESS SHOULD ENCOURAGE THE DEVELOPMENT AND DIFFUSION OF ENVIRONMENTALLY FRIENDLY TECHNOLOGIES Our Commitment or Policy We wish to be on the forefront of environmentally friendly technologies in line with Phoenix Design Aid A/S certifications and policies. Consequently, we continuously explore the possibilities of utilizing green technologies in our work. A brief description of our Processes or Systems When Phoenix Design Aid cooperates with customers in solving graphical production and design assignments, we offers access to WebProof, a specially developed, on-line flexible workflow system. WebProof is an efficient control and guidance system in the development and correction phase of all graphical assignments. This saves the client money and mistakes in graphical production are avoided. WebProof is based on the understanding that a customer wants to be able to see the whole job at any one time – that is to see the status and all the previous proofs page by page. In WebProof all activities are based on a simple and user-friendly interface. The user can for instance choose which language the platform shall use – and there are plenty to choose from. WebProof can be managed in English, Spanish, French, Chinese, Russian and Arabic. In general we provide the 1st proof in electronic format and like to suggest that proofing is done using WebProof. Besides cutting down the proofing time, WebProof is also environmentally friendly. Using online proofing rather than traditional printed proofs, we save the many trees it takes to produce the paper and we avoid the subsequent burning of these paper prints, incl. Toner and ink. Furthermore, WebProof reduces the environmental impact caused by transportation. In all cases, we avoid emitting a lot of CO2 to the atmosphere. Actions implemented in the last year / planned for next year Phoenix Design Aid A/S is currently exploring the possibilities of offering e-Books to our customers. Using the internet rather than traditional printed matter, we save the many trees it takes to produce the paper and we avoid the subsequent burning of these paper prints, incl. toner and ink. 10 Measurable Results or Outcomes  Our online WebProof workflow saves the environment from more than 3 tons of CO2 emissions each year.  WebProof saves us from physical deliveries, i.e. via courier, whereby emission from transportation is avoided. In 2011 the use of our Webproof system has reduced the number of courier deliveries with 725. PRINCIPLE 10: BUSINESS SHOULD WORK AGAINST CORRUPTION IN ALL ITS FORMS, INCLUDING EXTORTION AND BRIBERY Our Commitment or Policy At Phoenix Design Aid we do not accept corruption and dissociate ourselves from it. Our code of conduct is describing what PDAid sees as good practice and how we wish to run our business states: “We accept neither corruption nor fraudulent activities” We only donate money to charity – not clients, suppliers, political parties, etc. This commitment applies for our suppliers as well as our own staff and management. Any knowledge of bribery or attempt of bribery must be reported to the Phoenix Design Aid A/S management, who will take appropriate and immediate action. The dialogue with suppliers about the values and principles of Phoenix Design Aid A/S is an ongoing process and has so far not led to any necessary sanctions. A brief description of our Processes or Systems Our business model is based on a fair, transparent and responsible attitude towards employees, customers, suppliers and other stakeholders. This means that Phoenix Design Aid A/S enter into transparent business relationships with partners supporting the same principles. Where and when Phoenix Design Aid A/S discovers deviations from our model, we show accountability for it. By being certified in corporate social responsibility we have made it easier for clients to do business with us. For international organizations it is difficult to evaluate the quality of a new collaborative partner. Therefore certifications are used as a guideline and with our certification in social responsibility the organizations are ensured that Phoenix Design Aid work against every type of corruption. Actions implemented in the last year / planned for next year  Our DS 49001 certification includes programmes against corruption  We have produced a Code of Conduct flyer and is distributing it to our stakeholders.  We have informed the management and employees about our policies/code of conduct.  We have established and implemented a registration system enabling us to follow up on any incidents and to initiate preventive actions. Measurable Results or Outcomes Any incidents will be reported and followed up. In 2011 no incidents have been reported, hence no actions have been required. How do you intend to make this COP available to your stakeholders? The COP will be available for download on our website. Furthermore communication towards CSR and this COP is an integrated part of our efforts to continuously inspire our partners to improve even more when it comes to CSR and the environment. 11 Stakeholder dialogue is an integrated part of our activities. Through participation in various networks, we are able to exchange experiences with other Danish and international companies and enhance our knowledge. In our DS 49001 certified system we have implemented guidelines for identification of and communication with our main stakeholders. These stakeholders are uniquely selected and we will do our utmost to influence them to further incorporate solid CSR politics. The selected stakeholders will be clients, suppliers, authorities and NGOs. Consequently, our CSR reporting will be thoroughly aimed at various stakeholders and our communication on progress will be used in this regard. Our main stakeholders are, among others:  Suppliers: Scanprint, Toptryk, Strait Air, Eicom  Customers: UNEP, UNDP, The World Bank  Authorities: Co2 Focus Norway, the municipality of Randers, The Danish Working Environment Authority, UN Global Compact.  NGOs: Climate Neutral Network, Climate Change signatories (part of UN Global Compact), World’s Best News, Rotary During 2011, we have maintained our membership of Caring for Climate, The Graphic Association of Denmark and FSC Denmark and have become a member of the State of Green network. 12
