2011 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT TABLE OF CONTENTS MESSAGE FROM OUR CEO 1 ABOUT THIS REPORT 3 ORGANIZATION PROFILE 5 GOVERNANCE 7 STRATEGY FOR SUSTAINABILITY 9 STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT 12 2011 PERFORMANCE 15 2012 BOLD GOALS 19 PEOPLE 21 Exceptional Workplace 22 Ethics and Diversity 25 Training and Education 26 Safety 27 Health and Wellness 28 Community Investment 29 PLANET 31 Environmental Management 32 Energy and Climate Change 32 Waste and Recycling 34 Land Restoration 35 Clean Water 36 PROSPERITY 37 Economic Impacts 38 Sustainable Value Chain 39 Innovation 40 CONCLUSION 41 GRI INDEX 42 UNWRITTEN, BY NATASHA BEDINGFIELD Throughout this report, we include lyrics from Natasha Bedingfield’s song, “Unwritten,” which became the unofficial anthem of our 2011 Appreciative Inquiry Summit, “Inspiring Innovation through Our Commitment to People, Planet and Prosperity.” We believe this song represents what we know to be true for Fairmount Minerals – today is where our book begins, and the rest is still unwritten. MESSAGE FROM OUR CEO Dear Fairmount family members and friends, Fairmount Minerals is a company inspired by the challenge of creating extraordinary solutions from a seemingly common material – sand. The world’s most progressive and essential industries rely on our innovative solutions to ensure they can do everything from extracting oil and gas to developing the materials used to construct high performance buildings. We know our products and services make an important difference in the world, so we strive to design solutions with social, environmental and economic factors in mind. Fairmount Minerals’ sustainability strategy defines how we operate as an organization and guides our innovation activities. Most importantly, sustainable development serves as the inspiration we use to continually exceed expectations when it comes to People, Planet and Prosperity. In this, our sixth Corporate Social Responsibility Report, we celebrate our recent successes and highlight the opportunities we see to enhance our social, environmental and economic performance. In 2011, we are proud to report that we accomplished 97 percent of our sustainability goals. In all, we generated $5.7 million in value associated with our sustainability projects and teams. While we calculate the ways in which “sustainable development pays” to help quantify the value of our efforts for our investors and other stakeholders, we also do so with the hope of inspiring other companies – helping them to see that sustainability supports economic value creation. This year also marked an important milestone in Fairmount Minerals’ journey as a sustainable enterprise. For the first time in our history, we achieved one million consecutive safe working hours. This success is a testament to the good work of our Fairmount family members who, day after day, encourage and challenge one another to make safety a priority. I am inspired by the collaboration and teamwork that enabled us to reach this goal and, as we move forward, we will continue to raise the bar related to Fairmount Minerals’ safety performance. 1 One of our most significant efforts in 2011 involved bringing several hundred of our stakeholders together in an Appreciative Inquiry (AI) summit on sustainable development. The theme of this year’s CSR Report, “Inspiring Innovation through Our Commitment to People, Planet and Prosperity,” aligns with the theme of our 2011 summit, which connects our sustainability commitment with a focus on innovation. We challenged Fairmount family members, customers, suppliers and neighbors to “bring your inspired self,” as we spent three days exploring Fairmount’s strongest assets and imagining possibilities for the future. We devoted one full day of the summit to supporting a national park through a variety of service projects. Beyond the positive impact our volunteer efforts provided to the park, the experience allowed us to connect with, learn from and inspire one another. As we continue to grow in 2012, Fairmount Minerals will draw upon the creativity and inspiration that we generated through the summit. We see great opportunity to support global challenges such as the growing need for energy and water through our sustainable solutions. At the same time, we are energized by the opportunities to innovate and design new solutions that create positive impact for People, Planet and Prosperity. Looking to the future, I am drawn back to the origin of the word, “inspire,” – it comes from the Latin, “to breathe,” and it represents what we believe will make all the difference for us in the future. Throughout 2011, Fairmount Minerals breathed new life into our organization by welcoming new ideas, new people and new opportunities. We refreshed our focus on People, Planet and Prosperity and, going forward, will continue to create moments of inspiration that help us to see the world differently. Every breath we take today and into the future should be filled with the energy and power of possibility that inspiration creates. I am confident we have the very best people who can make extraordinary things happen and am grateful for the Fairmount family’s dedication to doing well by doing good. Sincerely, Chuck Fowler CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER 2 2 ABOUT THIS REPORT Through Fairmount Minerals’ annual Corporate Social Responsibility Report, we strive to provide information that our stakeholders want and demonstrate to our employee family, investors, business partners and others how we make sustainability core to our growth strategy. This report, published in May 2012, covers Fairmount Minerals’ global operations for the 2011 fiscal year. Energy and greenhouse gas emissions data are reported on an adjusted timeframe, which runs from October 1, 2010 through September 30, 2011. Fairmount Minerals is committed to following the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) G3.1 Guidelines in our reporting practices. Our 2011 report, which is available online at www.fairmountminerals.com/2011CSR and in hard copy, has achieved a GRI-checked Application Level A. We apply the GRI principles for defining report content and defining report quality to ensure a balanced and reasonable presentation of our sustainability performance. MATERIALITY AND STAKEHOLDER INCLUSIVENESS We define report content by integrating stakeholder feedback into our own sustainability assessment process. Through our Sustainable Development (SD) Teams, we set annual sustainability goals that ensure we address the material issues identified by our stakeholders. SUSTAINABILITY CONTEXT AND COMPLETENESS Our report addresses Fairmount Minerals’ environmental, social and economic performance and progress related to sustainability goals across our entire global footprint. BALANCE We present favorable and unfavorable results equally in our report, offering updates on progress against stated sustainability goals and efforts to enhance our sustainability impacts. COMPARABILITY We report metrics over a minimum of four years (less only when the information is not available) and include a thorough GRI Content Index to aid in report readability. TIMELINESS We publish a Corporate Social Responsibility Report on an annual basis, following the evaluation of the previous year’s data, performance metrics and feature stories. ACCURACY AND RELIABILITY This report was reviewed by the Fairmount Minerals’ senior management team and is published with their support and approval. For further information about our 2011 Corporate Social Responsibility Report or sustainable development progress CONTACT at Fairmount Minerals, please contact Kristin Lewis at sustainability@fmsand.com. 4 3 ORGANIZATION PROFILE “I’m just beginning. The pen’s in my hand, ending unplanned…” Fairmount Minerals is one of the world’s largest industrial sand producers. We supply industrial sand and related products to a vast array of markets and industries, including foundry, oil and gas, turf and landscape, water filtration, glass, construction, industrial, and retail markets. Headquartered in Chardon, Ohio, Fairmount Minerals’ global operations include 23 mining, mineral processing and manufacturing coating facilities and six administrative and research and development (R&D) offices. With more than 750 dedicated Fairmount Minerals family members, we strive to inspire our customers, our communities and one another to continually exceed expectations in all that we do. Employees by Category Employees by Location FML LOCATIONS FULL-TIME EMPLOYEES Alpha Resins (Detroit, MI) 10 448 316 Best Sand (Chardon, OH) 48 SALARY HOURLY Best Sand Southern (Beaver, OH) 2 Black Lab (Chardon, OH) 9 Black Lab (Fresno, TX) 5 Black Lab (Serena, IL) 12 Bridgman Lake (Bridgman, MI) 12 764 TOTAL Bridgman Resin (Bridgman, MI) 25 Construction Aggregates (Ferrysburg, MI) 6 Fairmount Minerals Corporate (Benton Harbor, MI) 22 Fairmount Minerals Corporate (Wedron, IL) 58 Fairmount Minerals Corporate Headquarters (Chardon, OH) 32 Fairmount Water Solutions (Newbury, OH) 5 Lake Shore Sand (Hamilton, Ontario) 6 Mineral Visions (Ottawa, IL) 8 Santrol (Sugar Land, TX) 36 Santrol de Mexico (Monterrey, Mexico) 64 Santrol Europe (Fredericia, Denmark) 17 Santrol Yixing Proppant (Yixing, China) 19 TechniSand Fresno (Fresno, TX) 28 TechniSand Roff (Roff, OK) 57 TechniSand Troy Grove (Troy Grove, IL) 36 TechniSand Wedron (Wedron, IL) 29 Wedron Silica (Wedron, IL) 78 Wexford Sand (Harrietta, MI) 26 Wisconsin Industrial Sand (Bay City, WI) 19 Wisconsin Industrial Sand (Hager City, WI) 15 Wisconsin Industrial Sand (Maiden Rock, WI) 55 Wisconsin Industrial Sand (Menomonie, WI) 25 TOTAL FULL-TIME 764 6 4 GOVERNANCE “I break tradition…” MISSION AND PRINCIPLES Fairmount Minerals’ mission to exceed all expectations while fulfilling our economic, social and environmental responsibilities grounds everything we do. Our core principles – the guiding values that inspire our people and our organization – guide our decisions related to People, Planet and Prosperity. Health & Ethics Safety Wellness Total Environmental Leadership Quality Stewardship Celebrate / Personal Empowerment Fun Excellence Teamwork / Continuous Social Shared Improvement Responsibility Ownership GOVERNANCE Fairmount Minerals is governed by a seven-person Board of Directors, with one executive, two independent and four shareholder (three of whom are representatives from American Securities) members. Board members are selected based on an internal review process as well as feedback from independent business partners. The Board’s three standing committees — Compensation, Audit and Executive — provide strategic counsel and oversight to the company. Our Board members act in accordance with our conflict of interest policy, which has been in existence since the formation of our Board. 8 5 STRATEGY FOR SUSTAINABILITY “Staring at the blank page before you... let the sun illuminate the words that you could not find.” Fairmount Minerals’ business strategy is focused on the major global issues we face today and into the future. From delivering clean water to meeting growing needs for energy, we recognize these shared priorities as opportunities to make a difference in the world. MEETING GROWING ENERGY DEMAND Our industrial sand products contribute to broad societal needs that are served by the markets we supply. With the global energy demand expected to increase about 40 percent by 20301, our product and service innovations enable efficient and sustainable production across the oil and gas industry. As our innovative products support an increasing share of global oil and natural gas supply coming from unconventional sources such as those produced with shale formations, we see opportunity in a more diversified global energy portfolio – one that includes renewable, alternative and lower-carbon fuels such as natural gas. ADDRESSING RISKS ASSOCIATED WITH CLIMATE CHANGE While growing energy demand represents opportunity for our business, we also recognize the social, environmental and economic costs of rising energy consumption and the resultant greenhouse gas emissions. If realized, the risks associated with greenhouse gas emissions – including changes to the physical environment, rising energy and agriculture prices, and regulatory impacts – present challenges to a healthy global economy. We have an opportunity to improve the efficiency of our operations and increase our use of renewable energy to help offset the financial risks of today’s world. PROVIDING WATER SOLUTIONS With almost one-fifth of the world’s population living in areas of water scarcity2, Fairmount Minerals has the expertise to deliver solutions that support sustainable use of this essential natural resource. In addition to providing water filtration solutions to meet global demand for clean water, we also see opportunity to improve the water footprint of our own operations. By collaborating with communities and engaging with experts in the field of hydrogeology, we can better assess our water needs and those of our communities to ensure the highest degree of efficiency in our water use. 1 BP Energy Outlook 2030 2 International Decade for Water: Water for Life, 2005-2015 10 ENHANCING OUR OPERATIONAL FOOTPRINT Fairmount Minerals manages the unique challenges of the mining industry through comprehensive policies and management systems in the areas of environment, health and safety. We proactively monitor the regulatory landscape and take appropriate steps to exceed current environmental and safety standards. Through our Sustainable Development Teams, we focus on energy conservation, sustainable water use, waste reduction and safety to enhance our operational footprint. SUPPORTING ECONOMIC GROWTH When we enter a community, we do so with a commitment to invest in a longlife operation that enhances Fairmount Minerals’ economic performance while investing in the people of that community through employment opportunities, supplier partnerships, taxes to governments and charitable donations. We understand that we have a responsibility to develop extensive site plans that consider the full spectrum of our impacts – from safety to environmental stewardship to volunteerism and more – and help create the prosperity that we know is essential to the success of our local communities. Fairmount Minerals’ focus on sustainable development ensures that we understand and address our social, environmental and economic impacts in a way that produces opportunity. It isn’t separate from our business strategy – it is our business strategy. As we look to the future, we are inspired by the possibilities that exist for Fairmount Minerals to make a difference in the world. Whether it’s delivering sustainable products and services that meet the growing global demand for essential resources like water and energy or providing opportunities and resources to people in the communities where we operate, we believe our sustainability strategy creates enduring prosperity. 11 6 STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT “No one else, no one else can speak the words on your lips…” Fairmount Minerals values the diversity of thought, experience and perspective that we generate through our connections with a broad stakeholder base. We make stakeholder engagement a fundamental aspect of our sustainability strategy because it enables us to leverage the wisdom of our employees, customers, suppliers, neighbors and other stakeholders to better address our environmental, social and economic opportunities. Since 2005, we have employed Appreciative Inquiry (AI) summits as a tool for engaging stakeholders in a robust discussion about opportunities and vision for the future. In 2011, we brought 437 stakeholders together over three days to re-discover our strengths as an organization, dream about possibilities for the future and design the strategies to take us there. The summit theme, “Bring Your Inspired Self,” focused on innovation and the ways in which Fairmount Minerals can creatively and effectively deliver sustainable value. With 377 Fairmount family members representing five different countries and 60 external stakeholders participating, we identified new goals and projects that will enhance our People, Planet and Prosperity impacts. To further inspire innovative ideas and collaboration, we dedicated one full day of our summit to a volunteer project. Together we contributed 3,170 volunteer hours in Cuyahoga Valley National Park, where we engaged in a variety of projects, including planting trees, painting a pedestrian tunnel, clearing brush and more. Ours represents one of the most significant volunteer efforts ever to come to the Park and we are incredibly proud of our work. At the conclusion of the summit, new and re-energized Sustainable Development (SD) Teams presented their ideas for the future of Fairmount Minerals, sharing creative solutions for product innovation, education and training, and enhanced communication. Post-summit, the following SD Teams will support Fairmount Minerals’ strategy for sustainability: • Best Practice – (now includes Technology Vision) • QUEST for Eco-Efficiency (merger of the QUEST and Eco-Efficiency post summit) • Environmentally Responsible Products and Processes (ERPP) • Health and Wellness • Social Responsibility • Business Innovation • FML Y.O.U. – Your Opportunity University • Clean Water • Safety • Recover, Recycle, Reuse (3R) • Sustainable Supply Chain → Sustainable Value Chain • Transportation → Sustainable Mobility • Communications → Communications & Appreciative Inquiry (AI) 13 Stakeholder Engagement STAKEHOLDER GROUP TYPE OF ENGAGEMENT FREQUENCY Fairmount Family Members Appreciative Inquiry Summit Every three years Innovation Assemblies Every two year Surveys Ongoing Customers Appreciative Inquiry Summit Every three years Satisfaction Survey Annually Focus Groups Ongoing Community Members Appreciative Inquiry Summit Every three years Open Houses Biannually Suppliers Appreciative Inquiry Summit Every three years Sustainable Supplier Survey Ongoing PARTNERSHIPS AND COLLABORATIONS Collaborating with partners energizes and inspires us to find new solutions to the environmental, social and economic challenges we face as a business. Through our participation in the United Nations Global Compact, we enact a universal set of principles related to human rights, labor standards, the environment, and ethical behavior. We commit to supporting and following the core values espoused by the Global Compact in our operations as well as through our participation in industry and professional organizations. We are pleased to learn from and participate in the following organizations: • American Chemistry Council Crystalline • National Plasterers Council Silica Panel • National Safety Council • American Foundry Society • North American Rail Shippers • American Institute of Chemical Engineers • Northwest and Southwest Michigan • American Petroleum Institute Sustainable Business Forums • American Red Cross • Ohio Parks & Recreation Association • American Society for Quality • Pennsylvania Parks & Recreation • American Society of Safety Engineers Association • American Water Works Association • Saving Birds Thru Habitat • Baldwin Wallace Institute for Sustainable • Society for Human Resource Management Business Practice • Society for Mining, Metallurgy • Casting Industry Supplier Association and Exploration • Foundry Educational Foundation • Society for Petroleum Engineers • Fowler Center for Sustainable Value • Society of Chemical Manufacturers and • Geauga Growth Partnership Affiliates • Golf Course Builders Association of America • Synthetic Turf Council • Golf Course Superintendents Association • United Nations Global Compact of America • U.S. Business Council for Sustainable • Industrial Energy Consumers Association Development • Industrial Minerals Association of • U.S. Chamber of Commerce North America • Water Environment Federation • International Society of Mine • Western Wisconsin Land Conservancy Safety Professionals • Wildlife Habitat Council • Marcellus Shale Coalition • National Association of Manufacturers • National Freight Transportation Association • National Industrial Sand Association 14 7 2011 PERFORMANCE When we have inspiration, we can achieve truly great things. At Fairmount Minerals, we challenge ourselves year after year to continue to raise the bar on our sustainability performance. In 2011, we met 97% of our sustainable development goals, which included one million consecutive safe working hours, the completion of a company-wide Appreciative Inquiry summit and more. As we successfully complete our annual social, environmental and economic performance goals, we are inspired to do more – to innovate and achieve results that exceed our expectations. 2011 Sustainable Development Performance 120 100 80 60 40 20 0 Best Practices Business Innovation Health and Wellness Clean Water Communications Eco-efficiency ERPP FML University Quest 3R Safety Social Responsibility Operations-All Sustainable Supply Chain Transportation Complete On Track Not Complete Team Goal Status Comment 3R Achieve zero waste to landfill Our team is on track to achieve zero by 2015 through annual waste waste to landfill by 2015. reductions of 20%. 3R Hold one recycling event in each Each region hosted an event where Fairmount Minerals region. recycling and waste reduction were prominently featured. Best Practice Increase scheduled uptime Through loading, maintenance and by 5% by implementing best manufacturing best practices, we practices in organizational generated more than $50,000 in effectiveness. cost savings. Best Practice Improve “appearance” at We developed a checklist and facilities by 10% according to implemented monthly review processes best practice criteria. to enhance housekeeping and appearance at our facilities. Business Expand innovation program to With our Appreciative Inquiry summit in Innovation external stakeholders through August 2011 and several engagements at least one quarterly outreach with trade and industry associations, activity. we successfully expanded our innovation program. Business Explore and incorporate at least We hosted an internal innovation session Innovation one innovation opportunity to identify practices and processes within our businesses and that foster a more creative, innovation facilities that demonstrates culture. SD Pays. Business Explore and develop at least We partnered with several educational Innovation four partnerships that support institutions and external research sustainable innovation. firms to address product innovation, quality and testing opportunities for our products and processes. Clean Water Educate Fairmount family Our Clean Water team created members on sustainable and presented exhibits on water water use. conservation and clean water at several community events. Clean Water Define water footprint We successfully completed a water process and implement at footprint at two Fairmount Minerals two manufacturing facilities facilities. in 2011. Clean Water Identify potential partners to We partnered with several higher help address water solutions for education institutions to conduct natural gas production. research and trials to help address water solutions for natural gas production. Clean Water Verify Aqua Clara's performance Eleven members of the Aqua Clara on annual goals. team visited Nicaragua to help put a system in place for monitoring the filters and tracking progress. The team also assisted ACI in securing additional sustainable funding through organizations and grants. Communications Reduce paper mailings by 45% While total paper mailings increased over 2009 baseline. in 2011, we re-focused our efforts to optimize mailings to meet our stakeholders' communication needs. Communications Design and launch the We decided to postpone the launch of Fairmount Minerals Individual this program. Sustainability Plan program. 16 Team Goal Status Comment Eco-Efficiency Reduce greenhouse gas We have reduced greenhouse gas emissions on a per ton basis by emissions by 7% from our 2% annually. 2009 baseline. Eco-Efficiency Implement at least one We completed a solar array installation alternative energy project at a at our Menomonie plant on October 1, Fairmount Minerals facility. 2011 and are exploring alternative energy opportunities in 2012. Eco-Efficiency Provide energy conservation We conducted several open houses on education to Fairmount family energy conservation, including one at the members. 2011 Summit. We also participated in the Green Energy Ohio Tour (focused on Solar and LEED). ERPP Introduce five new sustainable We successfully introduced five new products and/or processes. products, including a Ball Diamond Mix, Equestrian Blends and Grey Polymeric Sand. ERPP Achieve ISO 14001 registration Our Wedron plant successfully or compliance at two Fairmount completed certification by the end of Minerals facilities in 2011. 2011. Our Mineral Visions and Santrol Europe facilities are targeted for certification in 2012. ERPP Increase the number of Since 2010, we have transitioned computers that meet internal 58% of all FML computers to meet standards for environmental environmental standards. sustainability by 12% in 2011 (over 2010 numbers). Fairmount Test and then launch Fairmount We launched a revised orientation University family member onboarding program in 2011 to provide new program. Fairmount family members with information regarding our culture, commitment to sustainability and relevant HR, safety and information technology details. Fairmount Select a framework for FML U FML U collaborated with an external University structure. partner to design a strategic framework to guide our corporate university development. Fairmount Design and conduct 2011 AI The FML U team successfully supported University Summit. the design and implementation of Fairmount Minerals' third Appreciative Inquiry summit in 2011. Health and Implement new wellness We partnered with Wellness Corp to Wellness program focused on health introduce an online tracking system, new driven goals. website, new ideas and new challenges for our family members. Health and Sixty percent of all wellness Approximately 53% of program Wellness program participants will participants maintained or improved improve or maintain a healthy their body composition in 2011. body composition. Health and Host one kids activity day in We hosted children's events in each Wellness each Fairmount Minerals region. region in 2011. Health and Our annual healthcare spend While the industry trend for healthcare Wellness will be 10% below industry spending increased by 12.5% in 2011, trend. ours grew by only 6.68%. Operations Established an average of 433 We completed this goal by 93%. Average individual plant goals. QUEST Seventy-five percent of all We compiled best practices for WHC Fairmount Minerals locations certification from our certified plants and will complete a plant inventory helped other plants start the process list and develop a removal/ for 2012. management plan by 2012. 17 Team Goal Status Comment QUEST Offset 2010 Scope 1 and 2 We donated more than 57,000 trees to greenhouse gas emissions. offset carbon emissions, and planted many trees for the 9/11 Memorial in Shanksville, PA. QUEST Hold one environmental event Facilities in each FML region hosted in every Fairmount Minerals an event to increase awareness of region. environmental issues and opportunities. QUEST Partner with transportation We are 40% complete on the goal of team to track and calculate tracking and calculation of Scope 3 Scope 3 greenhouse gas greenhouse gas emissions. emissions. QUEST Fifty percent of all Fairmount More than 50% of all Fairmount Minerals locations will be locations have achieved these Wildlife Habitat Council or certifications. Saving Birds Thru Habitat certified in 2011. Safety Achieve one million consecutive We achieved over one million safe safe work hours. working hours in September 2011. Safety Achieve a 10% lower safety Our 2.9 safety incident rate is below the incident rate than industry industry average of 3.0. peers in 2011. Safety Hold 10 Safety & Health Every facility has a Safety & Health Committee Meetings per facility Committee that meets regularly to incorporating: discuss critical and relevant safety topics. • Near miss reporting • Observational-based safety successes • Silicosis prevention Safety Complete 40% of OHSAS With Best Sand's certification in 2011, registration project plan in 2011. we are on track to achieve our overall OHSAS registration goal. Social Achieve 100% completion of the While our family members pledged Responsibility total paid volunteer time pledge. 10,685 volunteer hours for 2011, we actually completed ~12,500 hours. Social Launch skilled volunteerism We partnered with United Way Services Responsibility pilot program. of Geauga County and are in the process of using the 2010 Skills Survey results to match family members with volunteer opportunities. Sustainable Increase participation in bulk We continued to increase participation Supply Chain bag recycling program by 10% in the bulk bag program throughout in 2011. 2011 and will target more customer participation in 2012. Sustainable Explore and recommend We analyzed the viability of intermodal Supply Chain inbound material transportation transportation options and will changes to improve our implement changes in 2012. environmental footprint. Transportation Improve private car reloads We improved private car reloads to by 25%. reduce empty railcar travel. Transportation Improve accuracy of car We improved the accuracy of our railcar number reporting by 25%. reporting even as volume increased. Transportation Establish a system to track We identified and secured a third party carriers in compliance with vendor to help track carrier compliance. CSA 2010. SD Pays Each team and each facility will We calculate $5.7 million in value calculate savings and ensure associated with our sustainable full value is captured. development projects. 18 8 2012 BOLD GOALS “Reaching for something in the distance, so close you can almost taste it…” Since first developing Fairmount Minerals’ bold goals for sustainability in 2006, we have encouraged our Sustainable Development (SD) Teams to identify meaningful annual goals that stretch us as an organization and inspire Fairmount family members to support People, Planet and Prosperity initiatives. Over time, we increased the number of annual goals to address the major opportunities we saw to enhance our social, environmental and economic performance. When we assessed our goal-setting process in 2011, we identified an opportunity to focus our efforts on those goals and activities that most inspire us. Further, we revised some team names and combined other teams to better represent our objectives going forward. We believe we have an opportunity to develop innovative solutions by targeting fewer, yet more significant, goals. Team 2012 Bold Goal Recover, Recycle, Reduce waste by 20% over 2011. Reuse (3R) Sustainable Value Deliver 36 SD presentations to customers, vendors and communities and Chain track impact. Improve the health and wellness of our people by increasing program Health and Wellness participation to 65%. Communications and Design SD communications plan and implement four communications tactics Appreciative Inquiry to enhance organizational effectiveness. Safety Reach 1.5 million consecutive safe working hours. Clean Water Complete water footprint evaluations at all current Fairmount facilities. Identify and implement four learning and development offerings for all FML Y.O.U. FML employees. Environmentally Design and implement a process to engage all stakeholders in development of Responsible Products environmentally responsible products by connecting with two focus groups in and Processes two distinct markets. (ERPP) Social Launch FML CORES program where 400 or more Fairmount family members will Responsibility participate in one of 10 local CORES programs. Quest for EcoImprove FML’s carbon footprint by completing projects that eliminate 3% Efficiency (QEE) of 2011 GHG emissions. Sustainable Mobility Increase our usage of non-conventional shipment methods by 10%. Best Practices Complete five best practice productivity projects resulting in $50,000 in savings. Design and implement an organizational process for advancing concepts of Business Innovation innovation at each location. Capture and track at least five projects. 20 9 PEOPLE “Drench yourself in words unspoken. Live your life with arms wide open.” EXCEPTIONAL WORKPLACE Creating an inspiring and rewarding workplace is fundamental to Fairmount Minerals’ talent recruitment and retention strategy. We provide our family members with compensation that is competitive in relevant markets and offer benefits to full-time family members that include a medical and dental benefits package, 401(k) plan, a wellness incentive program, and safety bonus programs. With a full-time and part-time employee retention rate of 87%, compared to the 76% average for the manufacturing industry and the 69% average for the mining industry, we believe our efforts are inspiring a more progressive, inclusive and innovative culture. Another important part of an exceptional and inspiring workplace involves recognizing people for a job well done. Fairmount Minerals’ awards and recognition program encourages Fairmount family members to nominate those individuals who they believe exceed expectations in all facets of their work. Open nominations are accepted on a rolling basis and an external committee identifies finalists for the annual Fairmount Minerals Sustainable Development Employee of the Year award. Our 2011 winners are: Best Sand George Hubbard Bridgman Resin John Mazurik Black Lab (Serena) Melissa Noel Wexford Sand Vince Hamilton Wisconsin Industrial Sand (Maiden Rock) John Daleiden Wisconsin Industrial Sand (Menomonie) Mavis Anderson Wisconsin Industrial Sand (Bay City) Ron Crabtree TechniSand Wedron Ross Weber Wedron Silica Ron Hindt TechniSand Troy Grove Rob Kiefel TechniSand Roff Jami Ward TechniSand Fresno Vinh Le Santrol Yixing Proppant James Xia Sales/Customer Service Patty Backus Technology (IT, R&D, Engineering) Alan Van Zeeland Admin Management (admin, logistics, Deb Schaefer* purchasing, accounting, other) *Deb is the Bill Conway Founder’s Award Winner – see Highlight Story on page 24 22 Total Employees per Category (domestic only) Technical 7 Sales 23 Management 95 658 Total Employees Administrative 94 Operations 439 Union vs. Non-Union (domestic only) 152 658 23.10% Union Employees Total Employees Total % Union Employees Age (domestic only) 284 374 658 Under 40 Over 40 Total Employees Gender (domestic and international) 612 152 764 Male Female Total Employees Race (domestic and international) White 81% Hispanic/Latino 14% Asian 3% Black/African American 1% American Indian/Alaskan Native 1% 23 HIGHLIGHT STORY: BILL CONWAY FOUNDER’S AWARD In 2011, Deb Schaefer received the prestigious Bill Conway Founder’s Award. Deb works in administration at our Wedron Silica facility and has been an integral part of our sustainable development efforts for the last several years. An active participant in our health and wellness program from its inception, Deb also participates in the Quest for Eco-Efficiency (formerly QUEST) Team and serves as team lead for Wedron Silica’s Wildlife Team. Deb’s commitment to and passion for sustainable development made our last several QUEST Education Days at Wedron Silica a big success. In 2011, the team decided to expand from one to two Education Days during Earth Week. Students from local schools visited the Fairmount facility to receive a hands-on education, and Deb was key in organizing the event. As the Wildlife Team lead, Deb is responsible for putting together Wedron Silica’s Wildlife Habitat Council (WHC) re-certification application and submitting it in a timely manner – as well as making sure the facility stays on track with its continued efforts to stay WHC-certified. In addition to her volunteer work on Fairmount sustainability teams, Deb also completed more than 40 volunteer hours with non-profit organizations in 2011. “THE WILDLIFE TEAM AT WEDRON SILICA WOULD NOT BE WHERE THEY ARE TODAY IF IT WEREN’T FOR DEB’S DEDICATION AND PASSION.” BECKY ANDREWS (Fairmount family member who nominated Deb) 24 ETHICS AND DIVERSITY Innovation comes from the diverse perspectives that an inclusive, inspiring culture helps to foster. As a global company, Fairmount Minerals’ ability to understand and operate in a multicultural world is essential to our success. We embrace and respect the diverse cultures of our family members and believe it is these distinct attributes that make our organization an innovative and rewarding place to work. We are inclusive of all people regardless of physical, financial or social characteristics, and we do not tolerate harassment of any kind. Our goal is to attract and retain the best talent in the field, so we make employment decisions based on the skills and experience that meet our current or future business needs. Further, we respect our family members’ right to join or refrain from joining legally authorized associations or organizations. Fairmount Minerals adheres to the laws and regulations of the communities in which we operate and, in some instances, hold ourselves to standards that exceed legal requirements. Our Fairmount Minerals Code of Ethics, which is translated into the primary languages where we have a significant presence, outlines our expectations for fair labor practices and human rights. As a member of the United Nations Global Compact, we act in accordance with its Ten Principles for international human rights, labor, environment and ethical business practices. INNOVATION COMES FROM THE DIVERSE PERSPECTIVES THAT AN INCLUSIVE, INSPIRING CULTURE HELPS TO FOSTER. 25 TRAINING AND EDUCATION Moments of inspiration often occur when we have an opportunity to listen to, share with and learn from others. Fairmount Minerals strives to provide our family members with inspiring training and education experiences that broaden and enhance skills and uncover new concepts and ideas. Talent development takes many forms at Fairmount Minerals, including training sessions for key functional areas, tuition reimbursement for full-time family members enrolled in undergraduate or graduate programs and professional certifications. In 2011, the Fairmount Minerals University team focused on developing a framework for our corporate university program. As part of that work, they proposed a name change FML Y.O.U. (Your Opportunity University) – to better reflect the team’s vision. Based on our findings from a benchmarking process, we defined our scope, by-laws and success metrics for FML Y.O.U. that will serve as a strategic roadmap for our education program. Over the next year, we will launch four new FML Y.O.U. offerings that address key interest areas as defined by Fairmount family members. In 2012, we will focus on helping connect Fairmount family members with FML Y.O.U. offerings to increase participation in the program. One major talent development milestone we reached in 2011 involves the launch of our on-boarding program for new Fairmount family members. The on-boarding program, offered twice a month via webinar, is designed to introduce new employees to the Fairmount Minerals culture. Representatives from various areas of the Fairmount organization cover topics including Appreciative Inquiry, sustainable development, human resources, quality, safety, environmental stewardship and information technology. We believe that a comprehensive on-boarding process helps to strengthen our culture and inspire new family members to creatively contribute to Fairmount Minerals’ future success. 26 SAFETY Fairmount Minerals takes an innovative approach to creating a safe work environment by focusing on the most important factor in safety: our people. Safety is about inspiring one another to proactively address risky behaviors and supporting each other in making safety a full-time commitment. In September 2011, our elevated focus on safety helped us to achieve a major organizational goal – we exceeded one million safe working hours as a company. This means that all Fairmount family members came to work and went home safely over a period of one million work hours. Locations across Fairmount’s entire geographic footprint took time to celebrate this important milestone, which we commemorated by issuing a specially minted coin. Fairmount Minerals’ comprehensive safety management program follows the criteria outlined in the internationally recognized Occupational Health and Safety Assessment Series (OHSAS) 18001 standard. In 2011, our Best Sand facility received OHSAS 18001 certification, which keeps us on track to having all Fairmount facilities OHSAS-certified by 2015. We utilize a variety of safety initiatives and programs to continually inspire our people to make safety a priority. Through monthly safety meetings and location-specific health and safety committees, we discuss relevant safety topics and share best practices. Further, several facilities have expanded upon Fairmount’s behavioral-based safety program and peer review, which helps to proactively identify risky behaviors and reinforce positive behaviors. In 2012, we strive to have every facility achieve 366 (with leap year day included) consecutive safe working days. Our goal is to achieve 1.5 million hours, exceeding our goal from 2011. As a result of these dedicated efforts, we continue to experience a decrease in the number of MHSA citations and to achieve an incident rate better than that of our peers. In addition, Fairmount family members continue to bring safety home to their own families and the community at-large. As we work toward our goal of having 100% of our family members trained in first aid and CPR, we strive to prepare our people to share their training with others in the community. Incidence Rate 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Fairmount Minerals 2.4 3.9 3.5 3.1 2.9 Industry Average 3.3 3.3 3.1 3.3 3.0 Lost Time Rate 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Fairmount Minerals 1.0 1.2 0.7 0.6 0.5 Industry Average 1.2 1.7 1.7 1.1 1.1 27 HEALTH AND WELLNESS We believe that inspiring and supporting our people in taking actionable steps toward a healthy lifestyle is one of the best things we can do for Fairmount Minerals and the extended Fairmount family. Fairmount Minerals’ health and wellness program focuses on engaging our people in addressing their overall well-being, which can lead to reduced health care costs, improved productivity and personal benefits to our extended Fairmount family. For many years, we have used the results from voluntary, confidential Health Risk Assessments (HRA) to help us design programs to address key Fairmount family health risks. In 2011, we focused on helping our family members obtain or maintain a healthy body mass index (BMI). Through a partnership with Wellness Corp, we launched a new online tool that family members can use to create profiles for setting and tracking wellness goals. At our annual facility health fairs, Health and Wellness Team members encouraged others to complete the HRA and calculate a baseline BMI. Over the next year, we will track progress against these BMI baselines. In 2012, we plan to increase participation in Fairmount Minerals’ health and wellness program, which is available to all full-time family members and significant others. With 58% of our family members, 45% of their spouses and 18% of their adult children currently participating in health and wellness activities, we seek to help others make wellness a priority in their lives. One way we will engage Fairmount family members is through fun, company-wide wellness challenges in the Spring and Fall. These challenges will be 6-8 weeks long so family members can focus on living healthy and maintaining momentum in their journey. We also plan to hold quarterly seminars on the topics of nutrition, exercise, weight management and stress to increase awareness of these critical wellness issues. Wellness Program Savings Fairmount Cost per Employee Trend Cost per Employee $25,000 $20,000 $15,000 $10,000 $5,000 $0 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 28 COMMUNITY INVESTMENT Fairmount Minerals’ inspiration to serve as a good corporate citizen is grounded in a desire to give back to the communities that provide us with so much of what we need to be successful – talented people, healthy economies and a social license to operate. In 2011, we wanted to tap into the passions of our Fairmount family members, connecting our charitable investments with organizations and causes that are near and dear to our people. To that end, we instituted the Volunteer Time Pledge concept, which asked Fairmount family members to pledge how many hours they wanted to volunteer for the year and in what capacity. We felt this would empower our family members to focus their valuable time on projects and activities that inspire them the most. While pledged time totaled 10,685 volunteer hours, we ended the year with 568 family members volunteering 12,417 hours in their communities. Total Donations by Category 45% 15% 35% 5% Education Environment Health & Wellness Discretionary TOTAL $3.8 million Average Volunteer Hours per Employee 2009 2010 2011 Hours 12.00 13.00 14.00 15.00 16.00 Total Volunteer Hours 7,600 8,688 12,417 2009 2010 2011 29 The Fairmount Minerals Foundation focuses on one critical topic area annually and, in 2011, we sought to make a difference related to education in our communities. Fairmount’s Social Responsibility Team as well as site committees came together to support the Foundation in targeting local schools where we could enhance K-12 education programs and institutions. Our goal was to provide the communities in which our people live and work with resources that would help children, families and neighborhoods. In 2012, Fairmount Minerals’ Social Responsibility Team will launch Fairmount C.O.R.E.S. (Community Out Reach and Engagement in Sustainability), a program that encourages groups of Fairmount family members to participate in a volunteer project of their choice. Fairmount Minerals will help fund the project and allow family members the time away from work, during regular work hours, to complete the projects. HIGHLIGHT STORY: FAIRMOUNT MINERALS REMEMBERS SEPTEMBER 11TH For many years, Fairmount Minerals has sought to offset our greenhouse gas emissions by partnering with organizations that promote or participate in tree planting projects. In 2011, we dedicated a portion of our tree donations to the Flight 93 National Memorial near Shanksville, Pennsylvania, a site that recognizes and celebrates the individuals lost on Flight 93 during the attacks on September 11, 2001. On the 10th anniversary of September 11th, several members of Fairmount Minerals’ QUEST Team and their families visited the Flight 93 National Memorial, where our $10,000 donation to the National Park Foundation enabled 150,000 new trees to be planted. As part of the ceremony, several team members had the honor of meeting President Barack Obama and First Lady Michelle Obama, who were there to commemorate the memorial. Christi Crites, daughter of Fairmount family member Don Crites, made us all proud by earning second place in an essay contest that was part of the memorial ceremony. 30 10 PLANET “Feel the rain on your skin. No one else can feel it for you. Only you can let it in…” ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT Fairmount Minerals’ environmental stewardship practices are inspired by a desire to leave the planet in a condition that will support future generations. Our approach to environmental responsibility is grounded in an environmental management system aligned with the universal ISO 14001 standard. This system ensures that we maintain, and where feasible, exceed, compliance with environmental standards and regulations. In 2011, our Wedron facility successfully completed an internal compliance audit and officially received ISO 14001 certification, which means 55% of all Fairmount Minerals facilities now have ISO 14001 certification status. ENERGY AND CLIMATE CHANGE As the U.S. Energy Information Administration projects global energy consumption to grow by approximately 50% over the next 30 years, Fairmount Minerals recognizes the opportunity to participate in an energy revolution, one that reduces dependence on fossil fuels, improves energy efficiency and addresses the key impacts associated with climate change. In 2011, Fairmount Minerals reduced normalized Scope 1 and Scope 2 greenhouse gas emissions by 6% over the previous year and by 7% over our baseline. With a bold goal to reduce carbon emissions by 10% by 2015, we are on track to achieve our reduction targets. Going forward, we intend to track, improve and offset our Scope 3 greenhouse gas emissions. One of the ways in which we are improving our carbon footprint is through increasing use of renewable energy. Building upon our successful solar array project at Best Sand in 2010, we partnered with Bold Alternatives, an alternative energy firm, to install a solar array at our Menomonie, Wisconsin facility in 2011. The array currently supplies one percent of the facility’s total energy draw, as well as completely offsets the energy usage for the office building. While this may not seem like a significant contribution to our energy needs, we anticipate a 6-8 year payback on the project, which will allow us to continue to invest in alternative energy opportunities. Further, the solar array represents an important educational tool for our community. As part of the installation, we hosted students from the local Chippewa Valley Technical College so they could observe and participate in the process. In addition to alternative energy, we sought to improve efficiency across transportation and logistics activities. We focused on improving rail car loading time and identified ways to streamline trips, such as loading and unloading the same product on rail cars as they are coming in and out of a particular facility, to reduce the number of empty cars leaving a facility. 32 While we do our best to reduce our carbon footprint every day, we recognize that our business activities have an impact. Therefore, we conduct a number of activities to sequester our carbon emissions. In 2011, we donated more than 57,000 trees of a variety of species while planting 23 acres of native grassland to fully offset our Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions. A portion of our trees were donated to local conservation and education programs, including the Kirtland Warbler recovery program in Michigan and the Burnside School Environmental Learning Center in Red Wing, Minnesota to provide students with access to maple trees to learn about the extraction process. In support of our reduction and offset targets, we merged our Eco-Efficiency and QUEST teams (now known as the Quest for Eco-Efficiency (QEE Team) in 2011. The combined team will focus on energy efficiency projects and carbon offset activities. Further, we continue to educate Fairmount family members on energy consumption and carbon footprint as a means of raising awareness and inspiring behavior changes that can save energy both at work and at home. Absolute Energy Use (gigajoules) 2008 2009 2010 2011 Direct Energy 1,317,577 1,148,762 1,427,347 1,313,243 Indirect Energy 299,001 269,339 338,707 803,572 Total Energy 1,616,578 1,418,101 1,766,054 2,116,815 Fuel Use by Type 1% Biodiesel 5% Biodiesel 10% Biodiesel 20% Biodiesel Diesel #2 gal gal gal gal gal 65,289 52,507 110,595 45,000 585,435 Electricity Fuel #400 Gasoline Liquid Propane Natural Gas kW-hr. gal gal gal propane Mcf 104,757,058 487,810 28,933 2,528,869 1,200,178 Normalized GHG Emissions* 54.52 52.03 51.61 48.33 2008 2009 2010 2011 *In previous years we have reported GHG data by pounds of CO2 equivalents per ton of product produced. This year and going forward we will report on a more consistent methodology of normalizing GHG data by tons of product shipped. 33 WASTE AND RECYCLING Fairmount Minerals’ global mining and manufacturing operations ensure that we responsibly deliver industrial sand products to customers around the world. As we grow our business in a world of finite natural resources and heightened stakeholder expectations, we must continually find ways to improve our recycling activities and work toward our vision of zero waste. As we strive to achieve zero waste-to-landfill by 2015, we have accomplished annual reductions of 20% every year since 2010. Over the next year, our Best Sand facility is on track to achieve zero waste-tolandfill by partnering with a local organization. This partner possesses a technology that melts plastics into liquid petroleum, which can be reused as a fuel source. Our 3R Team has partnered with our Best Practices Team to support waste improvement efforts through waste “treasure hunts” at several facilities. These hunts allow us to identify waste and recycling best practices that can be shared with the entire organization. For instance, at our new Alpha Resin facility in Detroit, Michigan, Fairmount family members have initiated a new recycling program and are looking at opportunities to reduce scrap resin-coated sand by partnering with cement plants that can reuse this material. In support of our material reuse efforts, Fairmount Minerals participates in the United States Business Council for Sustainable Development (US BCSD) by-product synergy group. We are currently evaluating opportunities to partner with other organizations that can reuse our scrap sand, foundry sand and foreign plastics. In 2011, we saved nearly $295,000 recycling or reusing our scrap sand. Total Waste-to-Landfill (cubic yards) 28,482 21,593 18,483 2009 2010 2011 34 LAND RESTORATION Fairmount Minerals recognizes that our business activities have an environmental impact and that we must apply innovative practices to ensure we do all that we can to leave our sites in a condition equal to or better than we found them. One way that we achieve this is through Fairmount Minerals’ commitment to biodiversity and site restoration planning. For many years we have worked with the Wildlife Habitat Council (WHC), an organization dedicated to partnering with businesses on voluntary wildlife habitat enhancement and conservation education programs. In 2011, we completed plant inventory lists documenting native, non-native and invasive species at all WHC-certified Fairmount locations. Currently, 10 out of 19 Fairmount facilities are WHC-certified, which exceeds our certification goal. Over the next year, we plan to receive certification at three additional facilities. We also continue to focus on inspiring Fairmount family members and our communities to recognize the value of biodiversity. At our Wedron Silica facility in Illinois, Fairmount Minerals hosted an Earth Day 2011 event that involved two full days of educating 253 students on topics such as pollinators and native prairie grass. At our Menomonie facility in Wisconsin, we worked with a local Girl Scouts chapter to conduct stream monitoring and healthy water education as part of our Corporate Lands for Learning certification. HIGHLIGHT STORY: PARTY IN THE PIT GOES ZERO LANDFILL One aspect of our commitment to sustainable development involves inspiring our communities to proactively address waste impacts. In 2011, our Best Sand facility hosted a “Party in the Pit,” with more than 1,500 people in attendance, including Fairmount family members, community members, vendors, and suppliers. The open house event featured several sustainability education booths that provided tips on energy, waste and water efficiency efforts at home and specifically highlighted Fairmount’s commitment to zero waste-to-landfill. Organizers worked to make the open house a “zero landfill” event, utilizing recyclable and compostable plates and utensils, providing easily accessible recycle bins and compost bins. 35 CLEAN WATER The challenges associated with global water scarcity require innovative solutions. As a company that needs access to water to successfully operate, we strive to sustainably use this important natural resource. We proactively assess our water needs balanced with the needs of our local communities and continue to identify opportunities to increase water reuse practices. In 2011, we focused on educating Fairmount family members on sustainable water use. Our Clean Water Team developed exhibits for local open houses and community events, which included information on sustainable water use at home. We also completed a water footprint at two Fairmount facilities in 2011 and are working towards implementing this process at all facilities in 2012. Beyond our own operations, Fairmount Minerals’ Water Solutions division continues to focus on improving global water supply through filtration services for surface water, ground water, and municipal and industrial waste. HIGHLIGHT STORY: INSPIRING OTHERS THROUGH ONE PERSON’S PASSION As part of Fairmount Minerals’ commitment to providing global access to clean water, we continue our relationship with Aqua Clara International. Aqua Clara is a nonprofit organization that provides the technology and training to deliver safe, affordable drinking water to families and individuals who subsist on less than $2 per day. In 2011, we partnered with Katie Spotz, a young woman who raised over $150,000 and increased global awareness of the lack of clean drinking water for millions during her 3,038-mile Atlantic Ocean row and a team bicycle race across America. Fairmount Minerals sponsored Katie’s December 2011 trip to Kenya, where she visited communities touched by Aqua Clara. Over the next year, Fairmount Minerals will work with Katie to develop a program for middle school and high school students that supports Aqua Clara. The program is slated to begin in April 2012 and the goal is to raise at least $60,000. 36 11 PROSPERITY “Today is where your book begins. The rest is still unwritten.” ECONOMIC IMPACTS Our prosperity is contingent upon healthy, sustainable economies, and it is this relationship that drives our efforts to support economic development wherever we do business. When we enter a community, we do so with the knowledge that we are making an investment in establishing a life-long operation as well as an investment in the people and community around it. This investment takes the form of jobs, tax revenue and charitable contributions and the indirect economic impacts created throughout our value chain. Our contributions to the local economy are reciprocated by a social license to operate, which is essential to Fairmount Minerals’ ongoing success. EBITDA Sales EBITDA 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 38 SUSTAINABLE VALUE CHAIN Across Fairmount Minerals’ value chain, we are inspired by the innovation and creativity our suppliers demonstrate. Similarly, we hope that our commitment to sustainable development provides inspiration for our business partners to develop innovative, sustainable product and process breakthroughs. Since implementing our Sustainable Supplier Code of Conduct in 2008, Fairmount Minerals remains committed to communicating its objectives to our value chain partners. We understand that our commitment to sustainability extends far beyond any Fairmount Minerals property line, so we continue to work with our suppliers to help them elevate their awareness of sustainable development and improve our value chain impacts. Following our 2011 Appreciative Inquiry summit, Fairmount Minerals recreated and re-purposed our Sustainable Supply Chain Team to be more inclusive of our value chain partners. The refreshed “Sustainable Value Chain” Team will continue the initiatives introduced by the Sustainable Supply Chain Team while expanding our scope to include suppliers and customers more actively in our culture. In 2011, we continued our successful bulk bag recycling program, expanding the offering to customers and continuing to work with our suppliers to join the program. The reusable and recyclable bulk bags saved us $1.5 million in 2011 and diverted 328,000 pounds of waste that would have gone to landfill. Partnering with transportation vendors has also emerged as an increasingly important aspect of our sustainable value chain efforts. In 2011, we developed a system to track carriers to ensure compliance with the Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration’s Compliance, Safety and Accountability (CSA) initiative. As part of CSA, carriers are measured and evaluated based on safety performance metrics. Our new system tracks carriers’ CSA evaluations to help inform the business partnership decisions we make. In addition, our focus on intermodal transportation opportunities has helped to uncover partnerships that will improve logistics, fuel efficiency and our transportation-related carbon footprint. 39 INNOVATION Like the theme of our 2011 Appreciative Inquiry summit – “Inspiring Innovation through Our Commitment to People, Planet & Prosperity” – we make innovation a central theme in all that we do as an organization. From encouraging one another to share ideas to developing processes that bring bold new opportunities to the forefront, Fairmount Minerals strives to enable the innovation that will keep us successful today and into the future. Throughout the summit, we brought our people, our business partners and different speakers together to inspire creative thinking. Building off of each others’ ideas, we designed dozens of new projects and initiatives that our SD Teams will implement over the next few years. Beyond collaborating at the summit, we are committed to partnering with external stakeholders to address critical business needs in the areas of product innovation, quality and testing. In one instance, collaboration with an outside research firm enabled Fairmount Minerals to reduce product testing time from an average of three weeks to two days. This greatly accelerates our time to market and helps bring new, innovative solutions to our customers more efficiently. Our dedicated Business Innovation Team focuses on creating the framework to enable innovation to flourish at Fairmount Minerals. In 2011, the Business Innovation Team conducted a brainstorm session to strengthen team capabilities, explore tools to improve our culture of innovation, and develop a structure and a process for innovation. Over the next year, the team will focus on three key areas: innovation process, innovation strategy and innovation culture. 40 12 CONCLUSION INSPIRING INNOVATION THROUGH OUR COMMITMENT TO PEOPLE, PLANET AND PROSPERITY In 2011, we challenged our Fairmount family members, customers, suppliers and neighbors to “bring your inspired self” and imagine possibilities for the future. Our commitment to People, Planet and Prosperity serves as the foundation in all that we do, and we strive to lead by example – to help inspire others who seek to embrace the possibility of a sustainable world. 13 GRI INDEX The full GRI Content Index is available at www.fairmountminerals.com/2011csr Fully Partially Not STANDARD DISCLOSURES PART I: PROFILE DISCLOSURES PROFILE DESCRIPTION REPORTED CROSS-REFERENCE/DIRECT ANSWER DISCLOSURE 1. STRATEGY AND ANALYSIS 1.1 Statement from the most senior decisionMessage from Our CEO (pages 1-2) maker of the organization. 1.2 Description of key impacts, risks, and Strategy for Sustainability (pages 9-11) opportunities. 2. ORGANIZATIONAL PROFILE 2.1 Name of the organization. Organization Profile (pages 5-6) 2.2 Primary brands, products, and/or services. Organization Profile (pages 5-6) 2.3 Operational structure of the organization, Organization Profile (pages 5-6) including main divisions, operating companies, subsidiaries, and joint ventures. 2.4 Location of organization's headquarters. Organization Profile (pages 5-6) 2.5 Number of countries where the organization Organization Profile (pages 5-6) operates, and names of countries with either major operations or that are specifically relevant to the sustainability issues covered in the report. 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form. Organization Profile (pages 5-6) 2.7 Markets served (including geographic Organization Profile (pages 5-6) breakdown, sectors served, and types of customers/beneficiaries). 2.8 Scale of the reporting organization. Organization Profile (pages 5-6) 2.9 Significant changes during the reporting We do not have any significant changes to report. period regarding size, structure, or ownership. 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period. •Gold Level Award from the Illinois Association of Aggregate Producers (IAAP) Rock Solid Safety Program •Fairmount Water Solutions received Green Ribbon Award for excellence in environmental programs, policies and initiatives •Wildlife Habitat Council (Wildlife at Work) ° Recertification (Wildlife at Work) for CACM, Best Sand and Wexford ° Recertification (Corporate Lands for Learning) for Wisconsin Industrial Sand – Maiden Rock •Weatherhead 100 Centurion Award Winner •Lake-Geauga Fast Track 50 Winner •Corporate Neighbor of the Year from Volunteer Center of Southwest Michigan •Wedron Silica received “Others” award from the Salvation Army of LaSalle County which honors extraordinary service to others 3. REPORT PARAMETERS 3.1 Reporting period (e.g., fiscal/calendar year) for About This Report (pages 3-4) information provided. 3.2 Date of most recent previous report (if any). About This Report (pages 3-4) 3.3 Reporting cycle (annual, biennial, etc.). About This Report (pages 3-4) 3.4 Contact point for questions regarding the About This Report (pages 3-4) report or its contents. 42 PROFILE DESCRIPTION REPORTED CROSS-REFERENCE/DIRECT ANSWER DISCLOSURE 3.5 Process for defining report content. We align report content with the topics and issues addressed by our Sustainable Development Teams and sustainability programs across Fairmount Minerals. Our SD Teams develop annual goals based on external stakeholder feedback as well as internal analysis of key environmental, social and economic issues. The SD Team goals and associated programs and projects become the primary components of Fairmount MInerals’ sustainability strategy. The content of this report focuses primarily on the programs and strategy developed by our SD Teams and approved by our SD Advisory Committee. These programs and strategy align with what we believe to be our most relevant and material sustainability risks and opportunities. 3.6 Boundary of the report (e.g., countries, About This Report (pages 3-4) divisions, subsidiaries, leased facilities, joint ventures, suppliers). See GRI Boundary Protocol for further guidance. 3.7 State any specific limitations on the scope About This Report (pages 3-4) or boundary of the report (see completeness principle for explanation of scope). 3.8 Basis for reporting on joint ventures, About This Report (pages 3-4) subsidiaries, leased facilities, outsourced operations, and other entities that can significantly affect comparability from period to period and/or between organizations. 3.9 Data measurement techniques and the bases About This Report (pages 3-4) of calculations, including assumptions and techniques underlying estimations applied to the compilation of the Indicators and other information in the report. Explain any decisions not to apply, or to substantially diverge from, the GRI Indicator Protocols. 3.10 Explanation of the effect of any re-statements About This Report (pages 3-4) of information provided in earlier reports, and the reasons for such re-statement (e.g.,mergers/acquisitions, change of base years/periods, nature of business, measurement methods). 3.11 Significant changes from previous About This Report (pages 3-4) reporting periods in the scope, boundary, or measurement methods applied in the report. 3.12 Table identifying the location of the Standard GRI Content Index Disclosures in the report. 3.13 Policy and current practice with regard to We choose to review our report content internally as seeking external assurance for the report. opposed to engaging an external auditor. 4. GOVERNANCE, COMMITMENTS, AND ENGAGEMENT 4.1 Governance structure of the organization, Governance (pages 7-8) including committees under the highest governance body responsible for specific tasks, such as setting strategy or organizational oversight. 4.2 Indicate whether the Chair of the highest Matt LeBaron, managing director at American Securities, governance body is also an executive officer. serves as Fairmount Minerals' Board Chairman. 4.3 For organizations that have a unitary board Governance (pages 7-8) structure, state the number and gender of members of the highest governance body that are independent and/or non-executive members. 4.4 Mechanisms for shareholders and employees Stakeholder Engagement (pages 12-14) to provide recommendations or direction to the highest governance body. 4.5 Linkage between compensation for All Fairmount Minerals non-union employees, including members of the highest governance senior managers and executives, may be eligible for body, senior managers, and executives bonus compensation based on business metrics and (including departure arrangements), and the the completion of our annual Bold Goals for sustainable organization's performance (including social development. and environmental performance). 4.6 Processes in place for the highest governance Governance (pages 7-8) body to ensure conflicts of interest are avoided. 4.7 Process for determining the composition, Governance (pages 7-8) qualifications, and expertise of the members of the highest governance body and its committees, including any consideration of gender and other indicators of diversity. 4.8 Internally developed statements of mission Governance (pages 7-8) or values, codes of conduct, and principles relevant to economic, environmental, and social performance and the status of their implementation. 43 PROFILE DESCRIPTION REPORTED CROSS-REFERENCE/DIRECT ANSWER DISCLOSURE 4.9 Procedures of the highest governance Message from Our CEO (pages 1-2) body for overseeing the organization's Strategy for Sustainability (pages 9-11) identification and management of economic, environmental, and social performance, including relevant risks and opportunities, and adherence or compliance with internationally agreed standards, codes of conduct, and principles. 4.10 Processes for evaluating the highest 2011 Performance (pages 15-18) governance body's own performance, particularly with respect to economic, environmental, and social performance. 4.11 Explanation of whether and how the Strategy for Sustainability (pages 9-11) precautionary approach or principle is addressed by the organization. 4.12 Externally developed economic, Stakeholder Engagement (pages 12-14) environmental, and social charters, principles, or other initiatives to which the organization subscribes or endorses. 4.13 Memberships in associations (such as Stakeholder Engagement (pages 12-14) industry associations) and/or national/ international advocacy organizations in which the organization: * Has positions in governance bodies; * Participates in projects or committees; * Provides substantive funding beyond routine membership dues; or * Views membership as strategic. 4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the Stakeholder Engagement (pages 12-14) organization. Fairmount’s stakeholders are employees, customers, suppliers, neighbors, non-profit partners. 4.15 Basis for identification and selection of Stakeholder Engagement (pages 12-14) stakeholders with whom to engage. We define “stakeholder” as any group or individual who has some degree of influence over our organization and/or any group or individual who is affected by our organization. For our 2011 Summit, we followed an inclusive process in identifying and selecting stakeholders with whom we engaged: Customers: Sales representatives from our key businesses identified customers whose perspective could help inform our innovation dialogue. Community & Non-profit partners: Members from our Social Responsibility Team in each region identified key community members and partner organizations who could share ideas about important topics to our local communities. Suppliers: Members from our Supply Chain group identified suppliers to participate in the innovation dialogue. Miscellaneous: Members of our leadership and management team identified additional stakeholders to participate in the Summit 4.16 Approaches to stakeholder engagement, Stakeholder Engagement (pages 12-14) including frequency of engagement by type and by stakeholder group. 4.17 Key topics and concerns that have been Stakeholder Engagement (pages 12-14) raised through stakeholder engagement, and Strategy for Sustainability (pages 9-11) how the organization has responded to those The topics raised through stakeholder engagement are key topics and concerns, including through vetted in our annual Bold Goal setting process. Those its reporting. topics are then integrated into our annual sustainability goals, which orient our sustainability performance annually. 44 STANDARD DISCLOSURES PART II: DISCLOSURES ON MANAGEMENT APPROACH (DMAS) PERFORMANCE DESCRIPTION REPORTED CROSS-REFERENCE/DIRECT ANSWER INDICATOR DISCLOSURE ON MANAGEMENT APPROACH EC DMA EC Economic performance Economic Impacts (page 38) DMA EC Market presence Economic Impacts (page 38) DMA EC Indirect economic impacts Economic Impacts (page 38) DISCLOSURE ON MANAGEMENT APPROACH EN DMA EN Materials Land Restoration (page 35) DMA EN Energy Energy and Climate Change (pages 32-33) DMA EN Water Clean Water (page 36) DMA EN Biodiversity Land Restoration (page 35) DMA EN Emissions, effluents and waste Waste and Recycling (page 34) DMA EN Products and services Strategy for Sustainability (pages 9-11) Innovation (page 37) DMA EN Compliance Environmental Management (page 32) DMA EN Transport Energy and Climate Change (pages 32-33) DMA EN Overall Environmental Management (page 32) DISCLOSURE ON MANAGEMENT APPROACH LA DMA LA Employment Land Restoration (page 35) DMA LA Labor/management relations Energy and Climate Change (pages 32-33) DMA LA Occupational health and safety Clean Water (page 36) DMA LA Training and education Land Restoration (page 35) DMA LA Diversity and equal opportunity About This Report (pages 3-4) DMA LA Equal remuneration for women and men About This Report (pages 3-4) DISCLOSURE ON MANAGEMENT APPROACH HR DMA HR Investment and procurement practices Sustainable Value Chain (page 39) DMA HR Non-discrimination Ethics and Diversity (page 25) DMA HR Freedom of association and collective bargaining Ethics and Diversity (page 25) DMA HR Child labor Ethics and Diversity (page 25) DMA HR Prevention of forced and compulsory labor Ethics and Diversity (page 25) DMA HR Security practices DMA HR Indigenous rights DMA HR Assessment Ethics and Diversity (page 25) DMA HR Remediation Ethics and Diversity (page 25) DISCLOSURE ON MANAGEMENT APPROACH SO DMA SO Local communities Strategy for Sustainability (pages 9-11) Community Investment (pages 29-30) DMA SO Artisanal and small-scale mining Economic Impacts (page 38) DMA SO Resettlement Stakeholder Engagement (pages 12-14) Economic Impacts (page 38) DMA SO Closure planning Strategy for Sustainability (pages 9-11) Economic Impacts (page 38) DMA SO Grievance mechanisms and procedures Stakeholder Engagement (pages 12-14) DMA SO Emergency Preparedness Strategy for Sustainability (pages 9-11) Community Investment (pages 29-30) DMA SO Corruption Ethics and Diversity (page 25) DMA SO Public policy Stakeholder Engagement (pages 12-14) DMA SO Anti-competitive behavior Ethics and Diversity (page 25) DMA SO Compliance Ethics and Diversity (page 25) DISCLOSURE ON MANAGEMENT APPROACH PR DMA PR Materials stewardship Sustainable Value Chain (page 39) DMA PR Customer health and safety Innovation (page 40) DMA PR Product and service labelling Innovation (page 40) DMA PR Marketing communications Innovation (page 40) DMA PR Customer privacy DMA PR Compliance Innovation (page 40) 45 STANDARD DISCLOSURES PART III: PERFORMANCE INDICATORS PERFORMANCE DESCRIPTION REPORTED CROSS-REFERENCE/DIRECT ANSWER INDICATOR ECONOMIC EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed, Economic Impacts (page 38) including revenues, operating costs, employee Community Investment (pages 29-30) compensation, donations and other community investments, retained earnings, and payments to capital providers and governments. EC2 Financial implications and other risks and Strategy for Sustainability (pages 9-11) opportunities for the organization's activities due to climate change. EC3 Coverage of the organization's defined benefit plan Exceptional Workplace (pages 22-24) obligations. We offer an employee stock bonus plan and two defined benefit plans. We also offer a 401K option to our employees. EC4 Significant financial assistance received from We do not receive significant financial government. assistance from local or federal governments. EC5 Range of ratios of standard entry level wage Our standard entry level wage meets, or by gender compared to local minimum wage at exceeds, local minimum wage requirements significant locations of operation. at all Fairmount Minerals locations. EC6 Policy, practices, and proportion of spending on Economic Impacts (page 38) locally based suppliers at significant locations of operation. EC7 Procedures for local hiring and proportion of senior Economic Impacts (page 38) management and workforce hired from the local community at significant locations of operation. EC8 Development and impact of infrastructure Community Investment (pages 29-30) investments and services provided primarily for public benefit through commercial, in-kind, or pro bono engagement. EC9 Understanding and describing significant indirect Economic Impacts (page 38) economic impacts, including the extent of impacts. ENVIRONMENTAL EN1 Materials used by weight or volume. Land Restoration (page 35) EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled Waste and Recycling (page 34) input materials. EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary energy Energy and Climate Change (pages 32-33) source. EN4 Indirect energy consumption by primary source. Energy and Climate Change (pages 32-33) EN5 Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency Energy and Climate Change (pages 32-33) improvements. EN6 Initiatives to provide energy-efficient or renewable Energy and Climate Change (pages 32-33) energy based products and services, and Innovation (page 40) reductions in energy requirements as a result of these initiatives. EN7 Initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption Energy and Climate Change (pages 32-33) and reductions achieved. EN8 Total water withdrawal by source. Clean Water (page 36) EN9 Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal Clean Water (page 36) of water. EN10 Percentage and total volume of water recycled Clean Water (page 36) and reused. We employ a closed-loop process at our mining facilities, which enables Fairmount Minerals to recycle and reuse the majority of water needed for our processes. EN11 Location and size of land owned, leased, managed Land Restoration (page 35) in, or adjacent to, protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas. EN12 Description of significant impacts of activities, Environmental Management (page 32) products, and services on biodiversity in Land Restoration (page 35) protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas. MM1 Amount of land (owned or leased, and managed Land Restoration (page 35) for production activities or extractive use) disturbed or rehabilitated. EN13 Habitats protected or restored. Land Restoration (page 35) EN14 Strategies, current actions, and future plans for Strategy for Sustainability (pages 9-11) managing impacts on biodiversity. Land Restoration (page 35) MM2 The number and percentage of total sites All Fairmount mining operations have identified as requiring biodiversity management a complete (or are in the process of plans according to stated criteria, and the number completing) site reclamation plans, which (percentage) of those sites with plans in place. include invasive species inventories and biodiversity impact assessments. 46 PERFORMANCE DESCRIPTION REPORTED CROSS-REFERENCE/DIRECT ANSWER INDICATOR EN15 Number of IUCN Red List species and national Land Restoration (page 35) conservation list species with habitats in areas affected by operations, by level of extinction risk. EN16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions Energy and Climate Change (pages 32-33) by weight. We follow the World Resources Institute/ World Business Council for Sustainable Development Greenhouse Gas Protocol in calculating carbon footprint. EN17 Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions Energy and Climate Change (pages 32-33) by weight. EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions Energy and Climate Change (pages 32-33) and reductions achieved. EN19 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances by We had no releases in 2011. weight. EN20 NOx, SOx, and other significant air emissions by We do not have any HAPs emissions to type and weight. report. EN21 Total water discharge by quality and destination. Clean Water (page 36) EN22 Total weight of waste by type and Waste and Recycling (page 34) disposal method. MM3 Total amounts of overburden, rock, tailings, and sludges and their associated risks. EN23 Total number and volume of significant spills. We do not have any spills to report. EN24 Weight of transported, imported, exported, or We do not produce any hazardous waste. treated waste deemed hazardous under the terms of the Basel Convention Annex I, II, III, and VIII, and percentage of transported waste shipped internationally. EN25 Identity, size, protected status, and biodiversity Clean Water (page 36) value of water bodies and related habitats Land Restoration (page 35) significantly affected by the reporting organization's discharges of water and runoff. EN26 Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts Environmental Management (page 32) of products and services, and extent of impact Innovation (page 40) mitigation. EN27 Percentage of products sold and their packaging Sustainable Value Chain (page 39) materials that are reclaimed by category. EN28 Monetary value of significant fines and We comply with all environmental laws total number of non-monetary sanctions for and regulations. non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations. EN29 Significant environmental impacts of transporting Energy and Climate Change (pages 32-33) products and other goods and materials used for the organization's operations, and transporting members of the workforce. EN30 Total environmental protection expenditures and In 2011, we invested $1.9 million in investments by type. sustainable development team projects and the Appreciative Inquiry Summit, which focused on our sustainability performance. SOCIAL: LABOR PRACTICES AND DECENT WORK Total workforce by employment type, employment Organization Profile (pages 5-6) LA1 contract, and region, broken down by gender. Exceptional Workplace (pages 22-24) LA2 Total number and rate of new employee hires Exceptional Workplace (pages 22-24) and employee turnover by age group, gender, and Our employee turnover rate is 13 percent. region. LA3 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are Exceptional Workplace (pages 22-24) not provided to temporary or part-time employees, by major operations. LA15 Return to work and retention rates after parental leave, by gender. LA4 Percentage of employees covered by collective Exceptional Workplace (pages 22-24) bargaining agreements. LA5 Minimum notice period(s) regarding significant We follow the minimum notice periods operational changes, including whether it is specified by the WARN Act whenever specified in collective agreements. applicable. MM4 Number of strikes and lock-outs exceeding one We do not have any strikes or lockouts week's duration, by country. to report. LA6 Percentage of total workforce represented in Safety (page 27) formal joint management-worker health and In addition to site-specific, joint safety committees that help monitor and advise management-worker health and safety on occupational health and safety programs. committees, we also have a Safety Sustainable Development team that focuses on developing and implementing occupational health and safety projects. 47 PERFORMANCE DESCRIPTION REPORTED CROSS-REFERENCE/DIRECT ANSWER INDICATOR LA7 Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, Safety (page 27) and absenteeism, and number of work-related We achieved a longstanding safety goal in fatalities by region and by gender. 2011 by exceeding one million consecutive safe working hours as an organization. We have no fatalities to report for 2011. LA8 Education, training, counseling, prevention, and Health and Wellness (page 28) risk-control programs in place to assist workforce members, their families, or community members regarding serious diseases. LA9 Health and safety topics covered in formal Safety (page 27) agreements with trade unions. LA10 Average hours of training per year per employee by Training and Education (page 26) gender, and by employee category. On average, all Fairmount family members receive eight hours of safety training annually. LA11 Programs for skills management and lifelong Training and Education (page 26) learning that support the continued employability of employees and assist them in managing career endings. LA12 Percentage of employees receiving regular Training and Education (page 26) performance and career development reviews, by gender. LA13 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown Governance (page 8) of employees per employee category according Exceptional Workplace (pages 22-24) to gender, age group, minority group membership, and other indicators of diversity. LA14 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women Our Equal Employment Opportunities policy to men by employee category, by significant ensures that we provide equitable pay locations of operation. regardless of gender or other indicators of diversity. SOCIAL: HUMAN RIGHTS HR1 Percentage and total number of significant While we do not conduct a specific human investment agreements and contracts that include rights screening of signficant investment clauses incorporating human rights concerns, or agreements, we do factor social risks into that have undergone human rights screening. our due diligence process. Further, we review our suppliers based on a voluntary sustainable supplier checklist, which includes criteria pertaining to human rights issues. HR2 Percentage of significant suppliers, contractors Sustainable Value Chain (page 39) and other business partners that have undergone One hundred percent of our suppliers are human rights screening, and actions taken. invited to complete a voluntary sustainable supplier checklist, which includes criteria pertaining to human rights issues. HR3 Total hours of employee training on policies and We do not provide specific training on procedures concerning aspects of human rights policies and procedures concerning that are relevant to operations, including the aspects of human rights. percentage of employees trained. HR4 Total number of incidents of discrimination and We do not have any incidents of corrective actions taken. discrimination to report. HR5 Operations and significant suppliers identified We do not have any operations in which in which the right to exercise freedom of the right to exercise freedom of association association and collective bargaining may be and collective bargaining are at significant violated or at significant risk, and actions taken risk. to support these rights. HR6 Operations and significant suppliers identified as We do not have any operations in which having significant risk for incidents of child labor, child labor presents a significant risk. and measures taken to contribute to the effective abolition of child labor. HR7 Operations and significant suppliers identified We do not have any operations in which as having significant risk for incidents of forced forced or compulsory labor presents a or compulsory labor, and measures to contribute significant risk. to the elimination of all forms of forced or compulsory labor. HR8 Percentage of security personnel trained in the We do not employ any security personnel. organization's policies or procedures concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations. MM5 Total number of operations taking place in We do not operate on or adjacent to or adjacent to Indigenous Peoples' territories, indigenous peoples' territories. and number and percentage of operations or sites where there are formal agreements with Indigenous Peoples' communities. HR9 Total number of incidents of violations involving We do not have any incidents to report. rights of indigenous people and actions taken. HR10 Percentage and total number of operations that We do not currently conduct human rights have been subject to human rights reviews and/or reviews or impact assessments at our impact assessments. facilities. 48 PERFORMANCE DESCRIPTION REPORTED CROSS-REFERENCE/DIRECT ANSWER INDICATOR HR11 Number of grievances related to human rights We did not have any grievances related to filed, addressed and resolved through formal human rights filed in 2011. grievance mechanisms. SOCIAL: SOCIETY SO1 (MMSS) Nature, scope, and effectiveness of any programs Strategy for Sustainability (pages 9-11) and practices that assess and manage the All Fairmount mining operations have impacts of operations on communities, including complete (or are in the process of entering, operating, and exiting. completing) site reclamation plans, which include invasive species inventories and biodiversity impact assessments. In addition, all Fairmount facilities seek to assess and contribute to the well-being of the local community through stakeholder engagement activities, including open house events, community health fairs, local volunteer projects and more. SO1 (G3.1) Percentage of operations with implemented local All Fairmount Minerals locations have a community engagement, impact assessments, local community engagement program and development programs. and conduct broad impact assessments. Each facility has separate budgets for community investment, and local Fairmount family members make decisions about the allocation of those funds. MM6 Number and description of significant disputes We do not have any disputes related to relating to land use, customary rights of local land use to report. communities and Indigenous Peoples. MM7 The extent to which grievance mechanisms We do not have any disputes related to were used to resolve disputes relating to land land use to report. use, customary rights of local communities and Indigenous Peoples, and the outcomes. MM8 Number (and percentage) or company operating We do not operate any artisanal or smallsites where artisanal and small-scale mining scale mines. (ASM) takes place on, or adjacent to, the site; the associated risks and the actions taken to manage and mitigate these risks. MM9 Sites where resettlements took place, the number We do not have any resettlements to report. of households resettled in each, and how their livelihoods were affected in the process. MM10 Number and percentage of operations with closure Strategy for Sustainability (pages 9-11) plans. Every Fairmount mining operation has or is in the process of developing a site restoration plan, which take into account ongoing restoration activities leading up to the closure of any facilities. By investing in long-life operations, we ensure we do not enter and exit communities over a relatively short time frame. SO9 Operations with significant potential or actual Each Fairmount facility has a unique set negative impacts on local communities. of environmental, social and economic impacts on the community that we strive to proactively address through stakeholder engagement, safety and environmental management plans and sustainable development programs. Based on our understanding and assessment of sitespecific impacts, we do not identify any significant negative issues. Should local stakeholders raise an issue related to our operations, we welcome the opportunity to co-create solutions that meet our stakeholders’ needs and support our broad organizational objectives. SO10 Prevention and mitigation measures implemented Stakeholder Engagement (pages 12-14) in operations with significant potential or actual While we have not identified any negative impacts on local communities. operations with significant negative impacts on local communities, we frequently engage with local stakeholders through community meetings, open houses and individual conversations to understand emerging issues and design relevant prevention and mitigation plans. SO2 Percentage and total number of business units While we do not conduct business unit analyzed for risks related to corruption. analysis related specifically to corruption risks, we do incorporate compliance risk assessment as part of our broad risk management processes. 49 PERFORMANCE DESCRIPTION REPORTED CROSS-REFERENCE/DIRECT ANSWER INDICATOR SO3 Percentage of employees trained in organization's We do not currently conduct antianti-corruption policies and procedures. corruption training, but we do provide all Fairmount Minerals family members with a copy of our Code of Ethics, which outlines our expectations relative to ethical behavior. SO4 Actions taken in response to incidents of We do not have any incidents to report. corruption. SO5 Public policy positions and participation in public Our participation in public policy policy development and lobbying. development occurs through our involvement with trade associations, including the Industrial Minerals Association of North America (IMA-NA). SO6 Total value of financial and in-kind contributions We do not have any political contributions to political parties, politicians, and related to report. institutions by country. SO7 Total number of legal actions for anti-competitive We do not have any legal issues to report. behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly practices and their outcomes. SO8 Monetary value of significant fines and total We comply with all relevant laws and number of non-monetary sanctions for nonregulations. compliance with laws and regulations. SOCIAL: PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY MM11 Programs and progress relating to materials Innovation (page 40) stewardship. Our sustainable development product charter, which defines criteria for assessing environmental and social impacts of our products and processes, includes analysis of raw material inputs. PR1 Life cycle stages in which health and safety Innovation (page 40) impacts of products and services are assessed for improvement, and percentage of significant products and services categories subject to such procedures. PR2 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with We comply with all product regulations and regulations and voluntary codes concerning health voluntary codes. and safety impacts of products and services during their life cycle, by type of outcomes. PR3 Type of product and service information required We require and provide Material Safety by procedures, and percentage of significant Data Sheets (MSDS) to ensure employees, products and services subject to such information customers and emergency personnel have requirements. the information and procedures necessary for handling or working with substances in a safe manner. PR4 Total number of incidents of non-compliance We comply with all regulations and with regulations and voluntary codes concerning voluntary codes concerning product and product and service information and labeling, by service information and labeling. type of outcomes. PR5 Practices related to customer satisfaction, We survey customers to understand including results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction related to products and quality. satisfaction. In 2011, our customer satisfaction index reached 99 percent. PR6 Programs for adherence to laws, standards, While we do not have a specific and voluntary codes related to marketing program, we ensure that our marketing communications, including advertising, promotion, communications meet all laws, standards and sponsorship. and voluntary codes, especially as it pertains to sustainability claims. PR7 Total number of incidents of non-compliance We comply with all regulations and with regulations and voluntary codes concerning voluntary codes concerning marketing marketing communications, including advertising, communications. promotion, and sponsorship by type of outcomes. PR8 Total number of substantiated complaints We do not have any breaches of customer regarding breaches of customer privacy and privacy or data to report. losses of customer data. PR9 Monetary value of significant fines for nonWe comply with all laws and regulations compliance with laws and regulations concerning concerning the provision and use of the provision and use of products and services. products and services. 50 P.O. Box 87 11833 Ravenna Road Chardon, Ohio 44024 (800) 237-4986 This report is printed on Mohawk Options PC 100 Cream White 100DTC and 100T, which contains 100% post-consumer waste fiber. These papers are certified by Green Seal and SmartWood in accordance with FSC standards, and manufactured with windpower. Report is printed with Superior Super ink, 25-30% vegetable base. Words and Music by Natasha Bedingfield, Danielle Brisebois and Wayne Rodrigues © 2004 EMI MUSIC PUBLISHING LTD., EMI BLACKWOOD MUSIC INC., GATOR BABY and WSRJ MUSIC All Rights for EMI MUSIC PUBLISHING LTD. in the U.S. and Canada Controlled and Administered by EMI BLACKWOOD MUSIC INC. All Rights for GATOR BABY controlled and Administered by EMI BLACKWOOD MUSIC INC. All Rights Reserved International Copyright Secured Used by Permission Reprinted by Permission of Hal Leonard Corporation © 2004 WSRJ Music (ASCAP). Used by permission. All rights reserved.
