Published  2012/12/13 Time period  12/2012 – 12/2013 Format  Stand alone document – Basic COP Template Differentiation Level  This COP qualifies for the Global Compact Active level Self-assessment  Includes an explicit statement of continued support for the UN Global Compact and its ten principles  Description of actions or relevant policies related to Human Rights  Description of actions or relevant policies related to Labour  Description of actions or relevant policies related to Environment  Description of actions or relevant policies related to Anti-Corruption  Includes a measurement of outcomes  Statement of continued support by the Chief Executive Officer Statement of the company's chief executive (CEO or equivalent) expressing continued support for the Global Compact and renewing the company's ongoing commitment to the initiative and its principles. 12/12/2012 To our stakeholders: I am pleased to confirm that A.D.T. reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. In this annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to share this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Sincerely yours, Yaël ROUSSEAU Patent Department Coordinator Human Rights  Assessment, policy and goals Description of the relevance of human rights for the company (i.e. human rights risk-assessment). Description of policies, public commitments and company goals on Human Rights. As a service company, we respect the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the French labor law.  Implementation Description of concrete actions to implement Human Rights policies, address Human Rights risks and respond to Human Rights violations. There is a bulletin board with a company rules and emergency numbers that the employees can freely consult.  Measurement of outcomes Description of how the company monitors and evaluates performance. No answer provided Labour  Assessment, policy and goals Description of the relevance of labour rights for the company (i.e. labour rights-related risks and opportunities). Description of written policies, public commitments and company goals on labour rights. Written policies that clearly state employee rights and responsibilities and their compensation and benefits.  Implementation Description of concrete actions taken by the company to implement labour policies, address labour risks and respond to labour violations. Occupational medicine comes to the office and meets each employee once a year.  Measurement of outcomes Description of how the company monitors and evaluates performance. Occupational medicine establishes a certificate for each employee to insure that he fits for work. Environment  Assessment, policy and goals Description of the relevance of environmental protection for the company (i.e. environmental risks and opportunities). Description of policies, public commitments and company goals on environmental protection. A selective sorting system has been settled in the company. Dematerialization of document filing and archiving favoring electronic storage rather than paper.  Implementation Description of concrete actions to implement environmental policies, address environmental risks and respond to environmental incidents. The employees have a different garbage to collect their paper waste. We have also a main garbage for the ink cartridges. The employees are encouraged to use recycled paper. The employees are encouraged to send invoices to the clients by email The employees are encouraged to put computers on stand-by whenever possible Selection of suppliers committed to sustainable development (Office Depot, Dactylburo …)  Measurement of outcomes Description of how the company monitors and evaluates environmental performance. No answer provided. Anti-Corruption  Assessment, policy and goals Description of the relevance of anti-corruption for the company (i.e. anticorruption risk-assessment). Description of policies, public commitments and company goals on anti-corruption. Our company is not prone to corruption.  Implementation Description of concrete actions to implement anti-corruption policies, address anti-corruption risks and respond to incidents. No answer provided.  Measurement of outcomes Description of how the company monitors and evaluates anti-corruption performance. No answer provided.
