SoftSkills Management Consultants Communication on Progress Year: 2012 STATEMENT SoftSkills Management Consultants has a crop of respectable corporate citizen as her staff at all levels. As a member of the Global Compact, we strive to implement the ten principles in our business policies. Business policies of like terms as the ten principles are embraced by the board of our company. Through our support of the United Nations Global Compact, we also aim to move the agenda forward on performance related to human rights, labour rights, the environment and the fight against bribery and corruption. Documented in this report is the summary of the progress we have made against these principles and we will continue to follow them up in future 16th April, 2012 , Wonuola Adetayo, Managing Director/ CE Contact: Wonuola Adetayo Email: wonutayo2002@yahoo.com Phone: 2348029990258 P 1/3 Global Compact Principle Action Taken & Impact Achieved and/or Plans for the upcoming Year 1: Businesses should support and In SoftSkills, all our workers are treated with dignity and given fair and just respect the protection of remuneration for their time at work. We consistently strive to create world class internationally proclaimed human environment for our business processes. Our workforce is gender balanced. rights; 2: and make sure that they are not Our processes and policies are within the stipulated Human right law in Nigeria. Our complicit in human rights abuses. terms of engagement and mode of operations are within Nigeria and ILO that guarantees non-violation of human rights of employees in whatever forms. 3: Businesses should uphold the All our staff members have the freedom to join any association of their choice without freedom of association and the intimidation. A good example was the strike action initiated by the NLC in January effective recognition of the right to 2012. None of our staff member was coaxed to come to the office. collective bargaining; 4: the elimination of all forms of forced Our Workplace is void of staff under forced labour. Our job offer letter is well explicit and compulsory labour; enough for our new staff. Job description, targets , KPI and expectations are jointly agreed and clearly started. 5: the effective abolition of child We discourage child labour in our work environment. None of our Staff member is labour; below the legal working age – 18 years old. The youngest staff on our payroll is 26 years old. 6: and the elimination of We have an up-to-date records on recruitment, training and promotion of our staff. discrimination in respect of Going through the documents, it has a transparent view of opportunities for employment and occupation. employees and their progression within the organization 7: Businesses should support a To encourage a precautionary approach to environmental challenges, we have a precautionary approach to developed code of conduct for our business operations and it is committed to environmental challenges; upholding good health and the environment. HSE Policy in place, HSE meeting and audit are carried out regularly. 8: undertake initiatives to promote SoftSkills is known to measure, track and communicate our development in greater environmental responsibility; incorporating sustainability. We identify with and support activities of organisation, corporate bodies and NGO that promote environmental sustainability. 9: and encourage the development and SoftSkills is knowledge firm, one of the ways we help to diffuse an environmentally diffusion of environmentally friendly friendly technologies includes informing our communities on the advantages of technologies. recycling and also by recycling our used paper materials instead of thrashing or burning them. We try to reduce the use of paper materials by using CD Disc and P 2/3 emails, sms and other IT enabled devices for communication. 10: Businesses should work against It is our standard practice never to give or collect bribes for the jobs we do or the all forms of corruption, including projects we solicit for. Part of the training and HR intervention to clients is hinged on extortion and bribery. good governance, work ethics, professionalism and good corporate citizenship. P 3/3
