KOMIPO Sustainability Report 2011 always ...ing Adding our efforts and technology to resources presented by nature, we at KOMIPO create energy for future growth. With a passion that yearns for a better tomorrow, KOMIPO is always ‘..ing’. Website | www.komipo.co.kr Department | Planning Dept. Strategy & Planning Team Tel | 070-7511-1127 Fax | 070-7511-1046 E-mail | sustainable@komipo.co.kr Purpose of this Report This Sustainability Report 2011 is KOMIPO’s third edition report. This report is aimed to analyze direct and indirect influence on Korea economy, society and environment exerted by KOMIPO generating electricity for 12.4% (as of Dec. 2010) of domestic electricity production. And this also intends to deliver KOMIPO’s efforts and outcomes transparently to all interested parties. Through this report, we analyze the current surroundings of our company to utilize opportunities and respond to risk factors in order to lay a stronger foundation for sustainable growth as a more trusted and respected organization. Contents of the Report This report focuses on the main factors of sustainable management as identified in the ISO26000 standard, namely economic, social and environmental. It aims to promote effective communications with stakeholders by specifically focusing on key sustainability issues and outcomes over the past two years. Based on materiality tests, the report is focused on the major issues the stakeholders are most interested. Guidelines and Credibility This report has been prepared in conformity with the revised G3.1 guidelines of 2011 and the Websites for Additional Information G3 guidelines from the Global Reporting Initiative, while also complying with the standards of The following is a list of the websites presented the BEST Sustainability Reporting Guidelines of Korea. The accuracy, objectivity and within the report. These websites provide more credibility of the report have been verified by the Institute for Industrial Policy Studies. specific information on the compiled content of this report. Reporting Period This report presents sustainability performance and activities of the past 2 years, from January 1st 2009, to December 31st, 2010. With regard to quantitative outcomes, data from the past 3 Alio System www.alio.go.kr to 4 years since 2007 has been included to show time series trends, while performance from 2011 may be partially included in discussion of qualitative outcomes and activities. This is the KOMIPO Official Website www.komipo.co.kr third edition report after its first publication in 2006, and is published biannually. KOMIPO Website for Corporate Social Responsibility Objects and Units of the Report www.komipo.co.kr/csr/ This report covers KOMIPO’s headquarters and its 7 organizational units: Boryeong Thermal Power Site Division, Incheon Thermal Power Site Division, Seoul Thermal Power Plant, KOMIPO Website Supporting Mid-small Sized Enterprises Seocheon Thermal Power Plant, Jeju Thermal Power Plant, HaengBok Combined Heat and www.komipo.co.kr/JUNGSO/index.html Power Plant and Shin Boryeong Thermal Power Plant Construction Site Office. The reference KOMIPO Website for Ethical Management currency is US Dollar and ton, kg, kl and m2, KW are used as the reference for quantitative www.komipo.co.kr/MORAL_NEW/index.htm data. All other units are expressed in numbers. KOMIPO Website for Environmental Management Additional Information http://seoul.komipo.net:8888/index.jsp For more information, refer to the company website or contact the department in charge. always ...ing KOMIPO Sustainability Report 2011 02 CEO’s Message Company Overview 04 Business Status 06 Overview of Domestic Electricity Industry 07 Overview of New Projects: Domestic & Abroad 08 Highlights 2010 12 Governance Structure & Sustainable Management 18 Human Rights & Labor 28 Green Management 40 Fair Business 50 Customers 54 Participation & Development of the Local Community 60 Innovation & Creation Appendix 71 Awards 72 Third Party Assurance Statement 74 GRI Content Index 78 Code of Ethics 80 UN Global Compact Implementation 81 Readers Opinion CEO's Message Dealing with rapidly changing business environment, KOMIPO holds up its end as a global company beyond domestic electricity industry’s limits. We keep doing our best to be the world No.1 thermal power company, becoming a symbol of hopes and lights and sharing with a society by following New Vision 2011. Dear Shareholders! 10 years have passed since the establishment of our corporation in 2001. During the decade, we have strived for the national prosperity and the affluent life for people by generating and supplying high quality electricity as the company essential duty. In 2011, KOMIPO has entered an era of change. Our transition into a market-oriented public enterprise has inevitably put us in more fierce competition, while the rising costs due to skyrocketing international oil and natural resource prices have created a harsher management environment. There is steadily growing expectations for the public corporation to fulfill its social responsibilities in order to realize the public interest, signaling the need for new initiative. To respond to this rapidly changing management environment, and to rebuild itself as the world’s best power generation company that fulfills its responsibilities as a global corporation, KOMIPO came to establish its new vision in February 2011. The new vision, ‘Beyond the Border, No.1 Thermal Power Company’ symbolizes KOMIPO’s aspiration to become a power plant corporation surging beyond South Korea and Asia to pioneer into the world market. Being No. 1 for KOMIPO means that we strive to hold the best economic, environmental and social values for sustainable management. First, as the principle value of the corporation, KOMIPO has focused on making sustainable growth possible. We aim to become Korea’s No.1 power generation company by 2020 by achieving a total facility capacity of 30,000MW and the facility capacity of 1,600 MW in new and renewable energy. We also aim to be Asia’s No.1 by realizing 50% of our business overseas and 6% in ROIC; and World No.1 through accomplishing 45% thermal efficiency rate and 72% in facility usage rate. Second, KOMIPO has concentrated our efforts domestically and abroad on Clean Development Mechanism (CDM) to act in accordance with the Government’s “Low-Carbon Green-Growth” policy. This is part of our effort to pass down the beauty of nature and abundance in life to future generations and promote harmonized growth for the environment and humankind. Domestically, we have promoted consistent securing of Certified Emission Reductions through the RDF combined heat and power plant in Iksan and large-scale wind power projects in Gangwon and Jeju regions, fuel cells, photovoltaic power and tidal power. Our commitment for CDM projects extends abroad through hydro power in Wampu and Lampung regions of Indonesia and wind power in Namibia and the US. Third, KOMIPO is fully committed to fulfilling its corporate social responsibility. Since 2004, our social volunteer group has been formed to practice the management of sharing and has been carrying out active contributions for the benefit of socially vulnerable groups. This year, KOMIPO will support eyesight surgery for local residents living near its power plants as another way of delivering light in the world, and fulfill its role as an eco-friendly energy company by operating the ‘1 company 1 village river maintenance’ project and a scuba diving volunteer group. Also, as a global corporation, it will promote the enhancement of the educational environment for children by constructing an elementary school in the local district of the Tanjung Jati power plant in Indonesia. The new vision promoted by KOMIPO cannot be completed by simply increasing its index of growth. We strongly believe that the new vision will be realized through mutual trust and communication with our employees and shareholders. During the past 10 years, KOMIPO has accomplished significant results against many obstacles. It has also strengthened capabilities to overcome the challenges of the current ever-changing management environment and other adversities. KOMIPO strives to grow to be a global corporation by not only fulfilling its original role of providing a stable electricity supply as a power generation company, but also observing its social responsibilities. We cordially ask for your continued interest and support. Thank you. KOMIPO President & CEO Nam In-suk Business Status Korea Midland Power Co., Ltd was incorporated through the restructuring of the electricity industry in April 2001. With its objective to develop power generation resources and a stable supply of electricity, KOMIPO currently operates total 5 power plants including Boryeong Thermal Power Site Division. As of late 2010, KOMIPO now accounts for 12% of the total domestic power generation capacity, possessing 9,398MW facility in Korea. and has 2,146 employees at its domestic and overseas worksites. Groundbreaking ceremony of the Boryeong Thermal Power Site Division Wampu Hydro Electric Power Plant Company Profile Sales Revenue 2010 Company Profile & Business Overview 2010 | As of Dec. 31, 2010 | USD 4.24 billion Name CEO & President Korea Midland Power Co., Ltd. Nam In-suk Sales Revenue Operating Profit 4.24 billion 197 million Date Established Apr. 2, 2001 Net Profit 114 million Total Assets 2010 Address 512 Yeongdong-daero, Gangnam-gu, Total Assets 4.50 billion 4.50 billion Seoul, Republic of Korea Liabilities 2.23 billion USD Major Businesses Development of electric power resources, power Capital 2.26 billion generation and subsidiary enterprises Overseas Credit Rating A at S&P, A1 at Moody’s Boryeong Thermal Power Site Division, Domestic Credit Rating Incheon Thermal Power Site Division, Domestic Credit Rating AAA Seoul Thermal Power Plant, AAA Business Sites Facility Capacity 8,398MW _as of Jul. 1, 2011 As of Jul. 1, 2011 Seocheon Thermal Power Plant, Jeju Thermal Power Plant, HaengBok Combined Heat &Power Plant Construction Office, Shin Boryeong Thermal Power Plant Construction Site Office Structure of the Electricity Market | Korea electricity market structure is composed of power generation, supply to customers and trading market connecting these 2 factors. Power Plant Operation & Power Generation Distribution Consumer KOMIPO KEPCO Final Consumer (Korea Electric Power Corporation) Power Generating Generation Market Operation Power Transition Companies and Supply & Distribution KPX (Korea Power Exchange) Category Main Functions Construction and operation of power transition & distribution facilities KEPCO Buying & selling electricity Operation of electricity exchange market KPX Stable operation of electricity system 4 Seoul Thermal Power Plant Acheving Boryeong Thermal Power Unit 3 Reaching 4,000 Days of Long Term 30 years of Operation with Zero Injuries Nominated for the Power Awards Trouble-Free Operation History of Sustainable Management Prior to Launch as a Separate Company 2010 Jan. 1898 Hansung Electric Co., Mar. 2010 Conclusion of Financing for Indonesia Cirebon Korea’s First Electric Power Company, Foundation Power Plant Jul. 1961 Korea Electric Power Co. (KEPCO) Establishment Jun. 2010 Obtained Contract for Indonesia Tanjung by Merging Choseon, Kyungseong, and Namsun Jati Power Plant O&M Electric Companies Jun. 2010 Completion of Procedures to Improve Jan. 1982 Renamed Korea Electric Power Corporation Performance and Prolong Lifespan at the (KEPCO) Boryeong Thermal Power Units 1, 2 Dec. 2000 Enacted the Laws to Restructure the Korean Jul. 2010 Signing of the EPC Contract for Malaysia POIC Electricity Industry combined heat and power Oct. 2010 Boryeong Thermal Power Unit 3 Reaches 4,000 Days of Long Term Trouble Free Operation 2001 Dec. 2010 Seoul Thermal Power Plant's 80th Anniversary Apr. 2001 Korea Midland Power Co., Ltd. (KOMIPO) and 30 Years of Injuries-free Operation Foundation Dec. 2010 Grand Completion of Hyundai ‘Green Power’ Nov. 2001 Received Presidential Prize at Corporate Power Plant Innovation Awards 2011 2009 Jan. 2011 Signing of the Wind Power Joint Development Jan. 2009 Test operation Contract for UAE Shuweihat Agreement in Namibia, Africa S2 Project Feb. 2011 Declaration of New Vision 2020 May. 2009 Boryeong Thermal Power Plant Awarded Mar. 2011 Shareholders Agreement for O&M in 'Coal-fired Top Plant Award 2010' at the USA Indonesian Tanjung Jati Power Awards Apr. 2011 The 10th Anniversary of KOMIPO foundation Jun. 2009 Completion of Boryeong Thermal Power Plant Unit 7,8 and Opening of Boryeong Energy World Sep. 2009 Completion of Boryeong Small Hydro Power Plant Unit 1,2 Nov. 2009 Completion of Jeju Internal Combustion Power Plant Unit 2, Zero Rate for Major Accidents Over 27years at Jeju Thermal Power Plant Dec. 2009 Completion of Incheon Combined-cycle Power Plant Unit 2 KOMIPO Sustainability Report 2011 5 Overview of Domestic Electricity Industry 3 4 2 3 1 5 6 5 6 1. Boryeong Thermal Power Site Division 2. Incheon Thermal Power Site Division 3. Seoul Thermal Power Plant 4. Seocheon Thermal Power Plant 5. Jeju Thermal Power Plant 6. YangYang Wind Power Plant Yangyang Wind Power Plant Business Site Location Overview of Facilities Capacity(MW) Incheon Thermal Power Site Division 3.0 MW Boryeong Thermal P/P #1~#8 4,000 1,512.45 MW Seoul Thermal Power Plant Boryeong C.C. P/P #1~#4 1,800 387.5 MW Boryeong Thermal Power Site Division Boryeong-si, Boryeong Small Hydro Power Chungcheongnam-do #1~#6 7.50 Boryeong Solar PV #1, #2 0.55 Seocheon Thermal Power Plant 401.23 MW Boryeong Thermal Power Site Division Boryeong Fuel Cells 0.30 5,808.35 MW Incheon Thermal Power Site Division Seo-gu, Incheon Incheon Thermal P/P #1, #2 500 Incheon C.C. P/P #1, #2 1,012.45 Seoul Thermal Power Plant Mapo-gu, Seoul Seoul Thermal P/P #4, #5 387.50 Seocheon Thermal Seocheon-gun, Seocheon Thermal P/P #1, #2 400 Power Plant Chungcheongnam-do Seocheon Solar PV #1, #2 1.23 Jeju Thermal P/P #2, #3 150 Jeju GT #3 55 Jeju Thermal Power Plant Jeju Thermal Power Plant Jeju-si, Jeju Jeju Internal Combustion #1, #2 80 285.05 MW Jeju Thermal Solar PV 0.05 Yangyang Wind Yangyang-gun, Yangyang Wind P/P #1, #2 3.00 Power Plant Gangwon 6 Lebanon Overview of New Projects: South Korea Domestic & Abroad 870 MW Lebanon 400 MW Hyundai Green Power 98 MW Gangwon Wind Power Generation Complex UAE 20 MW 9.8 MW RDF-fired Thermal Energy Malaysia EBE 1,510 MW UAE Shuweiht S2 Malaysia 660 MW PT. Cirebon Electric Power 45 MW PT Wampu 1,320 MW Tanjung Jati PT. KPJB Indonesia 2 3 1 4 1. Gangwon Wind Power Plant 2. Tanjung Jati PT. KPJB 3. PT. Cirebon Electric Power 4. Hyundai Green Power New Project Overview Location Project Term Capacity(MW) Hyundai Steel Byproduct Dangjin-gun, 400 Hyundai Green Power Operation : Jan. 2011~Dec. 2035 Gas Power generation Chungcheongnam-do Gangwon Wind Power Pyeongchang-gun, Operation : Sep. 2006 ~ Aug. 2035 98 15% of Share Investment Generation Complex Gangwon-do Iksan second industrial Iksan-si, Construction : Jun. 2010 ~ Jan. 2012 9.8 RDF Thermal Energy complex Jeollabuk-do Operation : 30 years since completion Lebanon Diesel Combined-Cycle Lebanon Operation : Mar. 2006 ~ Feb. 2011 870 Plant PT. Cirebon Electric Power Coal-fired power plant Indonesia Construction : May. 2008 ~ Aug. 2011 660 Operation: 30 years since completion PT Wampu Hydro Power Plant Indonesia Construction : Dec. 2010 ~ Jun. 2013 45 Operation: 30 years since completion Construction : Jul. 2010 ~ Jan. 2012 Tanjung Jati PT. KPJB Coal-fired Power Plant Indonesia 1,320 Operation: 22 years since completion Combined-Gas Comissioned UAE 1,510 UAE Shuweiht 52 Trial Operation : Jan.2010 ~ Nov.2011 for trial operations Malaysia EBE Combined-Heat Plant Malaysia Construction : Jul. 2010 ~ Aug. 2012 20 Operation: 22 years since completion KOMIPO Sustainability Report 2011 7 3 Main Features of Sustainable Management KOMIPO promotes sustainable management based on its corporate mission to place human and nature first in leading the development of the energy industry. As a leader in the power generation industry with its stable supply of electricity, KOMIPO continues to stride forward beyond the domestic arena and Asia to become a pioneer in the global market. Overseas Projects KOMIPO is actively pioneering the overseas market with its cutting-edge power plant operation and technology knowhow. KOMIPO has been making a great leap to be an international energy company by providing various professional services ranging from plant construction, O&M to technology consulting. Resource Development and Fuel Procurement In response to the aggravation of business circumstances, such as growing recession in domestic power generation market, KOMIPO has been seeking new engines of growth by establishing strategies for new business projects and diversifying development of resources and procurement of fuel. Such effort has helped the company to expand its capacity for sustainability. Domestic Power Plants Construction As the leader and the stable supplier in the power generation industry, KOMIPO has been taking initiative to create future growth engines through the construction of new power plants in the forms of thermal, combined-cycle, pumped storage, internal combustion, combined heat power, small hydro power, wind power and solar PV. Bird’s eye view of Ganghwa tidal power site Overseas Projects Q1 After 2020, it is predicted that the growth rate of demand for domestic electricity will drop to below 1%, while power generation using fossil fuels (coal, petroleum, etc.) will gradually decrease and dependency on nuclear Why have business overseas projects power and renewable resource energy will continue to increase. In comparison to other power generating gained greater importance? companies, KOMIPO lacks competitiveness due to its vast possession of outdated power generating facilities. Business projects are actively being pursued abroad as a solution to overcome such shortcomings and improve the current business environment. Q2 The following shows current projects abroad underway, led by dispatched KOMIPO employees. Nation Name of Project Facility Capacity Cost(USD) Current Status What has been currently Concluded the procurement of funds Cirebon Thermal Power Plant 660 (MW) 850 million accomplished overseas? (Mar. 2010) Operation of the Tanjung 1,320 (MW) Indonesia 400 million Secured the contract (Oct. 2010) Jati Power Plant 45 (MW) Concluded the agreement to purchase Wampu Hydro Power Plant 180 million electricity (Apr. 2011) Shuweihat S2 Commissioned 1,510 (MW) UAE 3,400 million Secured the contract (Jan. 2009) Trial Operation Business Cirebon Thermal Power Tanjung Jati Power Plant Wampu Hydro Power Plant UAE Power Plant Generation Project Operation Q3 The most considered factor when taking on projects abroad is profitability. However, creating jobs through businesses and joint advancement with domestic corporations are also equally important points to be Which factors take priority when considered. The main equipment supplier of the Cirebon project is Doosan Heavy Industries, while Daewoo KOMIPO initiates overseas Engineering is participating in the Wampu project. Therefore, KOMIPO actively pursues the overseas projects in projects? which direct participation in management is possible as a shareholder through investments, and is developing and carrying out projects to commercialize power plant operation methods and related technologies. KOMIPO declared its new corporate vision in February 2011. ‘Beyond the border No.1 Thermal Power Company’ Q4 entails going beyond the domestic arena and Asia to pioneer in the world market, and being domestic No.1 in terms of capacity, Asia No.1 in terms of business, and World No.1 in terms of power generation technologies. What is the long term vision of Following this vision, KOMIPO has coordinated a business portfolio focusing on long-term expansion abroad, KOMIPO regarding overseas stemming from current domestic projects. In the course of realizing this plan, KOMIPO will step forward as a projects? global power generation company, operating 15,000MW abroad. Q5 The specific promotion strategy for abroad projects to realize the dream of becoming the “No.1 Thermal Power Company” is as follow. The first is expansion of obtaining contracts. KOMIPO aims to run a local office in every Then, what are the KOMIPO’s continent by 2020 by securing the overseas position in its Indonesia Project in order to use this position as a step driving strategies to pursue for expanding the company’s foreign projects. The second is building a project support system. KOMIPO plans to overseas projects? hold a regular meeting with foreign offices’ CEOs for information exchange and technical support for the goal of efficiently dealing with changes of foreign situation. The third is reinforcement of marketing capacity. By increasing contact opportunities with related businesses through participation in foreign power generation trade fairs and exhibitions, advertisement activities will be strengthened to create business opportunities abroad. Also, the power generation company will raise its status through a foreign important figure invitation and pursuing joint projects with developing countries. KOMIPO Sustainability Report 2011 9 Resource Development and Procurement of Energy Supplies Q1 The amount of fuel used to generate electricity takes up to 70% of total expenditure. Fuel for power generation is purchased based on diverse analysis of the market and prediction of demand for electricity. The following shows How much fuel does KOMIPO use to the types and amount of fuel used. generate electricity? | As of 2010 | Sector Fuel Type Boryeong Thermal Boryeong Bituminous Coal Bituminous Coal 13,991 thousand tons LNG Combined-Cycle Seocheon Thermal Bituminous Coal, Anthracite Coal, Oil Anthracite Coal 671 thousand tons Seoul Thermal LNG Incheon Thermal, Incheon LNG LNG 2,500 thousand tons Combined-Cycle Jeju Thermal Oil Oil 321 kl Q2 In the case of Boryeong Thermal, bituminous coal is transported from abroad via ship. The anthracite coal used at Seocheon Thermal is transported via ship and train. Oil is also transported via ship, while LNG is supplied How is fuel for power generation through pipelines. The greater part of bituminous coal used by KOMIPO is imported from Australia and Indonesia. transported, and which country is In addition, imports are made from regions such as China, Russia, Canada, Republic of South Africa, the United bituminous coal imported from? States and Colombia. A master plan has been drawn up to reconsider the efficiency of the overall process (purchase, transport, storage Q3 management) in acquiring fuel. Benchmarking of global corporations is used to develop new purchasing techniques, while experts in each field have been appointed to a panel in order to actively undertake an innovation What efforts are being made on program to increase competitiveness in acquiring bituminous coal (TDR). Based on the competitive technology critical matters such as efficient acquired from power plant operation, Boryeong Thermal has reduced the fuel expense by expanding the stanpurchase of fuels and reduction dard scale of combustible bituminous coal, while Seocheon Thermal has cut the fuel expense by minimizing the of fuel costs? use of oil through securing bituminous coal optimal for the facilities. Also, domestic transportation cost has been decreased by optimizing the bituminous coal shipping portfolio for Boryeong Thermal and developing an alternative port to reduce cargo costs for Seocheon Thermal. Q4 According to Korea gas business enhancement policy, KOMIPO has been preparing to import a portion of LNG directly from abroad which being purchased from Korea Gas Corporation. In order to successfully realize direct What steps have been made for LNG acquisition of LNG, KOMIPO has strengthened the cooperation with domestic and foreign energy companies in purchase? order to secure LNG suppliers. Negotiations are underway with supplying companies with the goal of concluding an LNG direct acquisition agreement within 2011, while an LNG infrastructure use contract is being sought with related companies. Q5 The company has pursued foreign resource development projects for a stable supply of bituminous coal and making a provision for increasing price. Annual 625,000 tons of bituminous coal has been procured through joint What projects and activities are investments with domestic companies such as KEPCO and KORES in the form of share investment at Australian being taken place to develop Mulaven Coal Mines in 2008. Also, overseas resource development projects have been pursued too in Indonesia overseas resources? and Russia. 10 Domestic Power Plant Construction Q1 Securing the capacity to supply electricity has emerged as an imperative issue due to increase in demand for electricity accompanied by rise in standard of living. Meanwhile, no short-term solution exists in the event of What is the significance of electricity shortage due to the lengthy amount of time required to construct a power plant. From a mid to long term constructing power plants in the perspective, power plant construction must proceed without complications through accurate prediction of future electricity industry, and what has electricity demand. Currently, KOMIPO possesses facilities with the capacity to supply approximately 11% of been the role of KOMIPO in this area? domestic electricity. It is also is striving to fulfill the needs of customers according to the government’s energy supply plan by meeting the ever increasing demand for electricity through power plant construction. Q2 While the capacity of facilities is of a similar level to other power generating companies, KOMIPO faces disadvantageous management environment due to its possession of outdated and high cost power plants. To What are KOMIPO’s main address this problem, a midterm development plan of power resources over 5 years was established in 2009 strategies in carrying out to resolutely close down outdated power generation facilities. A mass-scale structural enhancement was also power plant construction projects? implemented by constructing lower-cost, higher-efficiency power plants. This resulted in a reduction of outdated facilities (of over 20 years operation) from 39.3% of total capacity in late 2007 to 27.2% in late June 2011, an improvement of 12.1%. In addition, Shin Boryeong Unit 1 and 2 and the Haengbok combined-heat power plant construction are in their preparatory stages. By the end of this year, the scale of power plants in construction stage is expected to reach the capacity of 2,965 MW which is the biggest among domestic thermal power plant companies. | Unit : MW,%,%p | As of late Dec. 2007 As of late Jun. 2011 Company Name Worn-Out Facilities Outdated Facilities Fluctuation (F-C) Total Capacity (A) (Over 20 years) Total Capacity (D) (Over 20 years) Capacity (B) Shares (C=B/A) Capacity (E) Shares (F=E/D) KOMIPO 7,499 2,948 39.3 8,398 2,288 27.2 △12.1 KOSEP 6,598 1,974 29.9 8,375 1,974 23.6 △6.3 KWP 7,682 1,400 18.2 8,404 1,400 16.7 △1.5 * This standard is subject to exempting the pumped storage facilities transferred KOSPO 7,366 400 5.4 9,238 400 4.3 △1.1 to Korea Hydro and Nuclear Power EWP 8,801 2,300 26.1 8,812 2,300 26.1 Corporation from the Thermal power plant as of 1st January 2011. Total 37,946 9,022 23.8 43,227 8,362 19.3 △4.4 Q3 KOMIPO’s current projects are characterized by existing within the same category, namely the shift towards low cost power generation. For example, KOMIPO is currently pursuing the construction project of the Incheon Combined-cycle What are the main features of Unit 3 in which the outdated facilities of Incheon Thermal Unit 3 and 4 are being closed down in order to transfer the construction projects pursued by combined facility Unit 1 operating at Boryeong to the same location. Being the first project of its kind in the world, KOMIPO? the transfer project of large-scale power generation facilities is providing new opportunities for construction of new power generation facilities in Boryeong. Meanwhile, construction of the Shin Boryeong Unit 1 and 2 is currently being carried out as a low cost large scale power generation facility. Construction of the Shin Boryeong Unit 1, 2 Construction of the Incheon Combined Unit 3 Q4 Recently, in terms of construction projects, power generation companies have been concentrating their efforts in securing low cost bituminous coal power plants for profitability, Also, Shin Boryeong Unit 1.2, which is reflected in Which construction project is most the government’s 5th Basic Electricity Demand & Supply Plan, is in its preparatory stages to start construction. Shin significant to KOMIPO? Boryeong Unit 1.2 will be constructed to the capacity of 1,000 MW as the largest domestic thermal power plant and expected to take on the role of frontrunner for exporting abroad after its successful commercialization as a model project promoted by the Government’s R&D policy measures. On the other hand, the construction of the Seoul Combined Power Plant, which is in its planning stages, will be the first large-scale power plant to be constructed underground in the world. After its completion, it will be a new landmark displaying the co-existence of energy and culture with the creation of a nature park on the above ground. KOMIPO Sustainability Report 2011 11 A New Future with the Value of New Growth Governance Structure & Sustainable Management Vision | Heightening management efficiency through advancement of the governance structure Strategy | Operating a Board of Directors that meets the needs of the management environment, expanding the non-standing directors' support program Issue | Strategy for sustainable management, Communication with stakeholders Performances | Composing a Sustainable Management Committee within the Board of Directors, Increasing satisfaction in the non-standing director support program Plan | Vitalization of the Non-standing director policy proposals, Development of non-standing director capabilities Management Team | Strategy & Planning Team Evaluation of Management of the Evaluation of Activities of the Board Support for the Board of Directors Board of Directors of Directors 96.7 98.4 95.0 94.3 0.7% 7.3% 89.4 Improvement Improvement New Index 2009 2010 (Performance : %) 2009 2010 (Performance : %) 2010 (Performance : %) Company Overview Highlights 2010 Governance Structure & Sustainable Management Human Rights & Labor Green Management Vision & Strategy Fair Business Customers Participation & Development of the Local Community Innovation & Creation Appendix Corporate Vision KOMIPO strives to realize the corporate ideology of “putting humankind and nature first, leading the way in the development of the energy industry” and has set its vision for the next decade as “Beyond the Border, No.1 Thermal Power Company”. We aim to become No.1 in Korea for capacity, No.1 in Asia for business and No.1 in the World for power generating technology by 2020. Local Business Volume Asia Business Quality Total Capacity of Facilities Domestic & 50% of Business Overseas Abroad_ 30,000MW Over 6% ROIC Total Capacity of Renewable Energy Facilities_ 1,600MW Global Technology Top Class Goal to Realize the Vision of Competency No.1 Thermal Power Over 72% in Facility Usage Rate Company Over 45% in Heat Efficiency Korea No1. for Capacity Asia No1. for Business Global Global No1. for Power Generation Technology Asia Local Achieving and Leaping Forward as a Beyond The Border | A Power Company Overcoming Regional and Technical Limitations to Step Forward on the Global Stage Top Class Power Company Vision Framework Mission Putting Humankind and Nature First, Leading the Way in the Development of the Energy Industry Vision Korea No.1 Asia No.1 Global No.1 Total Facility Capacity 50% of Business Overseas Facility Usage Rates 72% Vision Goal 30,000MW Over 6% ROIC Heat Efficiency 45% Facility Capacity of Renewable Resources 1.600 MW Mid& long-Term Securing of Leadership in Diversification of Fields in the Green Growth Establishing Global Strategic Goal Domestic Power Generation International Market Management Systems Procurement of new power Expansion in the domain of Selection & concentration on Fostering global talent generation facilities winning contracts overseas core strategic industries Constructing efficient R&D Securing dominance in the Capacity to create business Selective development of capabilities Mid & long-Term competition to procure fuel profits potential business projects Strategic Financial Strategic Challenge Consistent innovation of O&M Construction of a business Successful carrying out of Management Successful advancement into support framework Solar PV Building a foundation for wholesale business of LNG Reinforcement of marketing Capability to respond to Sustainable Management power generating capabilities in creating climate change business Mid & Long-term Roadmap for Realization of the Vision | KOMIPO has established a long term portfolio changing its current course from domestic businesses to overseas and green growth businesses to promote the company’s sustainable growth and eco-friendly business activities. 2016-2020 2013~2016 Domestic, Abroad, Green Growth Businesses 2010 Acceleration of Growth in the International Securing of First Place in the Market Consolidation of Providing Domestic Market & Diversification of Renewable Total Capacity of Power Generation 30,000MW Power & Reinforcement of the Foundation Energy Businesses Capacity of Power Generation Overseas 15,000MW to Obtain Contracts Abroad Portfolio Low Carbon Green Growth Domestic Projects Overseas Projects Focused on Domestic 2010-2013 Projects 2014-2016 Focused on Overseas & Green Growth Projects 2017-2020 KOMIPO Sustainability Report 2011 13 Governance Structure The board of directors builds an advanced governance structure by encouraging non-standing directors participating in management for rational decision making system with disclosure of decision making processes and results, operating non-standing director meeting and subcommittee within the board of directors. Shareholders and In accordance with the government’s electricity industry restructuring plan, KOMIPO was established as a Composition of Shares spinoff of KEPCO in 2001, and KEPCO holds 100% of shares. In January 2011, KOMIPO was designated as a “market oriented public enterprise” by the government, fulfilling the role and functions of a public enterprise. Composition of the The company’s Articles of Incorporation stipulate that there be more than three and less than fifteen directors, Board of Directors of which more than half must be non-standing directors. In accordance with the articles, the chairperson of the board must be an elected non-standing director from among the existing non-standing directors. Currently, a total of 7 directors exist including the chairperson, with 4 non-standing directors and 3 executive directors including the CEO. The board of directors operates according to the rights and obligations of directors and boards, determined by the Commercial Act and the Act on the Management of Public Institutions of the Republic of Korea, and by the Company Regulations regarding the Articles of Incorporation and the operation of the board members. Member Composition of Board of Directors Sustainable Management Committee Name Expertise of Area Status Profile Chairman: President Nam In-suk Administration President & CEO Chief of Korea Agency for Technology and Standards Members of the Committee: 6 members including Management Planning management planning division & power business Chung Chang-kil Electricity Director of Planning Department division vice presidents, and 4 non-standing Div. Vice President directors Lee Jae-koo Electricity Power Business Director of Boryeong Thermal Power Site Division Div. Vice President Sub Committee Jang Young-jin Electricity Non-standing Director KEPCO Power Business Div. Vice President Committee Chairman Members Cho Sung-pyo Civil Engineering Non-standing Director Head of the KHNP Radioactive Waste Technology Center Management Director Strategy Choi Ki-sung 2 persons Choi Ki-sung Administration Non-standing Director Representative of the Inter-Korean Red Cross Talks Ethical Director Song Jae-kwon Administration Non-standing Director Chief of the Presidential Security Service Management Song Jae-kwon 2 persons Internal members: 3 persons / External members: 4 persons (electricity, administration, etc.) / Chairperson: elected non-standing director Environmental Director Management Cho Sung-pyo 2 persons Appointment of President and According to the Act on the Management of Public Institutions, Board Directors are appointed by recommendation Board of Directors of the Committee for the Recommendation of Board Directors composed of external figures and non-standing directors, and are reviewed by the Committee for Management of Public Institutions. Meanwhile, the CEO & President is appointed by the President of South Korea, under recommendation of the Minister of Knowledge Economy. Non-standing Directors are appointed by the Minister of Strategy & Finance, who selects members through an impartial and professional deliberation process. A systematic support framework is being established for non-standing directors through orientations and on-site Improvement of the Management visits for newly appointed non-standing directors, designation of Board Supporters to support the management of the Board of Directors and Expansion of the Roles of activities of non-standing directors, operation of an exclusive website and provision of management information. Non-standing Directors The function of policy deliberation has been reinforced by installing a sustainable management committee within the Board of Directors. Such a support framework and operation system for board directors allows non-standing directors to fulfill their roles as overall supervisors of management activities by deliberating and making decisions on the establishment and implementation of management goals, budgets, operation plans and investment plans, through regular and provisional board meetings. Inspection of the Worksite by Non-standing Directors Exclusive Website for Non-standing Directors 14 Company Overview Highlights 2010 Governance Structure & Sustainable Management Human Rights & Labor Green Management Fair Business Customers Participation & Development of the Local Community Innovation & Creation Appendix The Board of Directors Organization Board of Directors Sustainable Management Committee President Recommendation Committee Auditors' Committee (planned) Management Strategy Subcommittee Management Strategy, Deliberation of Budget and Investments, Sustainability Report Ethical Management Subcommittee Transparent Management, Cooperation with Local Communities, Labor-Management Cooperation, Social Contribution etc. Environmental Management Subcommittee Environmental Management, Response to Climate Change Non-Standing Director Meeting The Board of Directors Secretariat Support Reinforcing the Capabilities of Control Decision Making System Non-Standing Directors Operation of the Non-standing Committees operation within Provides management information Director meeting the board of directors & education opportunities Reinforcement of Articles of the Pre-explanation of integrated On-site inspection of the Corporation and regulations of non-standing Directors electricity industry the Board of Directors Operation of Board Supporters Evaluation & feedback of Regular Report on Business activities & support Results The Board of Directors Secretariat, The Board of Directors Website, Company Intranet VPN, Recommendations for the Board of Directors Operation Evaluation Operation of the Board of Directors Board of Directors Activities Support for Board of Directors System Performance dealing with agenda Participation rates in the board Provision of opportunities for Evaluation of operation of directors, etc, on-site management performance Evaluation of working activities Satisfaction of Board of Directors Efforts to Improve Performance The performance evaluation system of the board of directors is focused on the three main areas of operation, of the Board of Directors activities and support. Operation performance of the Board of Directors, degree of participation by individual non-standing directors, and support to the company and satisfaction of non-standing directors are evaluated to comprehensively assess their contributions to performance improvement. Performance Evaluation Categories Subsection Note 2009 2010 Number of times hosted 10 12 Management Evaluation of the Board of Directors (30%) Operation of subcommittees 5 94.3 5 95.0 Non-standing Director Meeting 8 Attendance of Board of Directors(%) 95 100 Activity Evaluation of the Attendance in Work-related Activities(%) 85 80 89.4 96.7 Board of Directors (40%) Rate of Modifications process(%) 12.1 19.2 Self evaluation(%) 85 85 Surveys of non-standing directors Prior explanation of items(%) 100 100 Rate of Prior Explanation Satisfaction with support(%) 80 Surveys of non-standing directors Support Evaluation of the 86.3 98.4 Board of Directors (30%) Provision of opportunities for on-site 4 5 On-site inspection management Performance evaluation of the CEO involves management assessments from the government in the three categories of leadership and responsible management; efficient management; and main projects. Management contracts are concluded with the Minister of Knowledge and Economy, according to the Evaluation Manual for Management Performance by Public Institutions provided by the Ministry of Strategy and Finance. Standing Directors conclude management contracts with the CEO and undergo a performance evaluation according to an internal assessment system. KOMIPO Sustainability Report 2011 15 Sustainable Management Sustainable Management Issues Defining and Communicating with Stakeholders | As expectations for corporate social responsibility rise, corporate social responsibility is no longer a matter of choice for the growth and development of the company. Stakeholders are categorized into 6 groups according to the main economic, social or environmental influence they have on the management activities of the company, namely: employees, the government & KEPCO, members of the local community, environmental groups, partner companies and customers. Categories of Stakeholders Employee Government/ Community Environment Partners Customer KEPCO/Investor _ Labor-Management _ General Meeting of _ Roundtable _ Websites _ Roundtable _ Public Relations Officer _ Council Shareholders Discussions _ Environmental Discussions _ Sustainability Report _ Board of Directors _ Development Newsletters _ Satisfaction Survey Councils Main Issues and Communication Channels with Stakeholders | KOMIPO provides an array of communication channels on the main issues of the company, in order to consistently build trust with stakeholders. Collected shareholder opinions are reflected in actual management practices and the following shows the main results. Category Main Issues Communication Channels Welfare of employees, Balance of work and life Management philosophy lectures by the CEO, Website Employees Fostering of talent, Stabilization of employment Labor-management Council, Ombudsman system Government/KEPCO/ Financial performance, Price competitiveness General meeting of shareholders, Board of directors Shareholders Sustainable management strategy, Communication with stakeholders Company presentations, Parliamentary Inspection Local Society Social contribution, Roundtable discussions with local residents, Contribution to the development of the local Community Councils for local development, etc Environmental Groups Environmental management system, Response to climate change Website, Environmental newsletters, etc Partner Companies Support for win-win cooperation, Roundtable discussions with partner companies, Fair trading relations with partner companies Satisfaction Survey, etc Customers Transparent management, Stable supply of electricity Public announcements, Sustainability report, etc Interviews with Stakeholders KOMIPO Sustainable Management Report 2011 Ha Ji-won Member of the Presidential Shin Dong-woo Committee on Green Growth, Social NANO inc. CEO Environment Chief Executive of Ecomom Korea KOMIPO has reaped a common good for both shareholders and society in creating For a public enterprise to accomplish sustainable growth, it is essential to consider company profits as a public enterprise. During the past decade, it has created positive economic, social and environment issues. KOMIPO will definitely become a respected performance with unique supports and long-term win-win cooperation for joint growth. I public enterprise carrying out a positive role for Korea and local communities with strongly believe that KOMIPO can become a model of sustainable management required activities such as making a park for people on the place created by Seoul Thermal Power in this era, by showing that pursuing the vision for the common wealth for last decade Plant Underground Installing, concentrating its efforts on new&renewable energy and turned out KOMIPO’s assets and profits. operating various social contribution programs about the environment. 16 Company Overview Highlights 2010 Governance Structure & Sustainable Management Human Rights & Labor Green Management Materiality Test Results Fair Business Customers Participation & Development of the Local Community Innovation & Creation Appendix A materiality test is a method of analyzing main KOMIPO aims to utilize the Sustainability Report 2011 as a means to analyze and report the major sustainable issues for stakeholders in order to identify the issues of greatest interest to stake holders, and then management issues of interest to its stakeholders and prioritize them. To such ends, main issues have been use this analysis to identify priority issues for the identified through the <IPS Materiality Test™> in seven steps. The 30 main economical, social and environmental organization. issues that KOMIPO faced over the past 2 years will be examined through analyzing KOMIPO’s internal policy, direct and indirect economical effects, regulations and laws, examination of internal and external issues on shareholders’ participation and their interview, benchmarking of outstanding international power companies, researching on media coverage on KOMIPO and identifying major sustainable management issues of KOMIPO’s TFT. This materiality test will focus on issues that have the greatest significance in terms of sustainability and communicate with shareholders and reflect them in KOMIPO’s future strategies and policies. KOMIPO Materiality Test 2010 Human Rights Medium & Emerging & Labor 01 Innovative Management, Credibility 02 Labor-Management Relations Green 03 Construction of Eco-Friendly Low Cost Energy, 02 Management Response to Environmental Hazards Governance Structure 03 High 06 04 CEO Leadership, Risk Management, Expansion of Domestic Businesses, R&D 07 05 Corporate Governance Structure 05 06 Safety in the Workplace, Fair Treatment 07 Preserving the Environment, Reduction of 10 Emission of Environment Pollutants, 11 Renewable Energy 09 Very High 12 Fair 08 Operations 08 Financial Performance, Price Competitiveness 04 01 13 14 09 Communication with Stakeholders, Sustainable Management Strategy Very High Innovation 10 Welfare of Employees, Balancing Work & Life & Creation Fostering Talent, Job Security High 11 Environmental Management System, Response to Climate Change 12 Transparent Management, Support for Medium& Win-win Cooperation, Fair Relations with Emerging Cooperating Companies 13 Stable Supply Electricity 14 Social Contribution, Contribution to the Customers Development of the Local Community Participation & Development of the Local Community Lee Myung-whan Economy IBS Consulting. CEO Based on its past performance in pioneering of new markets abroad, KOMIPO is creating opportunities to vitalize the markets of developing countries by actively expanding business abroad and promoting business. KOMIPO needs to reduce the risks it faces by putting efforts to improve on its declining productivity due to aging facilities, and reinforce its core capabilities by focusing on eco-friendly and renewable energy resources. KOMIPO also should expand its domain in both domestic and overseas market by consistently exploring new markets and securing new engines of growth, while reinforcing its capability for procuring international financing in order to jointly increase profitability and growth. KOMIPO Sustainability Report 2011 17 A Workplace Appreciating Talent and Respecting Human Rights Human Rights & Labor Vision | Creating a great place to work through effective human resource management Strategy | Fostering global talents and mutual trust in labor-management relations, A workplace free from safety hazards Issue | Equal Employment and Job Security, Developing talent, Securing labor-management relations founded on trust, Employee welfare / work life balance Performances | Certification as a family friendly company, Nominated as one of the best workplace, The best labor-management culture company Plan | Creating an advanced labor-management culture, Retirement pension system Management Team | Labor Relations Team, Organization & Human Resources Team GWP Index (Unit_ Point) Investment on Trainning per Employee Welfare Satisfaction (Unit_USD) Accumulated cases of problem resolution Satisfaction with welfare 94% 79 2,043 65 1,994 93% 93% Surpassed target 90% 1,660 50 growth by 89% 22% 87% 2005 2010 2010 2008 2009 2010 2008 2009 2010 Goal Company Overview Highlights 2010 Governance Structure & Sustainable Management Human Rights & Labor Green Management HR Management Fair Business Customers Participation & Development of the Local Community Innovation & Creation Appendix Practicing Social Equity Gender Equality KOMIPO provides equal opportunities for its organizational members to fully perform their potential and talents regardless of gender. From the course of hiring to education and promotion, any discriminatory factors are eliminated to allow employees to maximize their performance and realize their potential through their work. Through the adoption of a female employment target system, we attempt to increase the entry of female into the job market and we are striving to provide a stable workplace through resolution of employee complaints and enhancement of working environments. This has resulted in a growing trend of female employment for the past 3 years, with a total of 161 female employees constituting 7.5% of the total workforce as of late 2010. Employment Status Category 2008 2009 2010 Number of Employees(Persons) 2,268 2,208 2146 Female Employees(Persons) 161(7.1%) 160(7.25%) 161(7.5%) Work Transfer Rate due to Child Birth 0% 0% 0% Average Consecutive Working Years(Years) 15.5 16.2 16.8 Ratio of newly-employed female workers(2001-2010): 16.3% Preferential Treatment to Female Employees Women Employment Rate | Unit : % | 1 Adoption of a Female Employment 7.50 Target System 7.25 2 Resolution of Employee Complaints Elimination of long distance work sites 7.10 for employers married within the company 3 Enhancement of the Working Environment Child-nursing facilities installed at every worksite 2008 2009 2010 Ratio of newly-employed female workers(2001-2010): 16.3% Expansion of Employment for the Through methods of affirmative action in the form of separate recruitment and bonus points in the case of new Socially Marginalized recruitment, the physically-challenged have been employed as a priority, at above 2.6% from 2008 to 2010, which surpasses the government's obligatory employment level of 2.3% (standard requirement for public institutions.) All discriminatory factors in the designation, deployment, transfer and promotion process have been strictly eliminated, in order to remove any potential discomforts or disadvantages for the physically-challenged. In the assignment of positions, the degree of the disability, personal aptitudes or desired duties are considered to provide optimal positions, while more satisfactory working environment are being fostered through prioritized granting of residence, education and training opportunities. Also, according to the “protection guidelines for foreign workers”, KOMIPO ensures no unfair treatment in the employment and working environment of foreign workers within KOMIPO and its related investment agencies and partner companies.. Wang Hui China (Born in 1982) Wang Hui majored in Engineering in China and started working in a boiler manufacturing firm in Korea. Her work skills as well as good knowledge in Korean language and culture were well recognized when she was hired to work at Hyundai Green Power in September 2007 until September 2010. The boilers used at Hyundai Green Power are manufactured in China, allowing Wang Hui to do duties related to managing technicians at the boiler manufacturing company (CWPC). Her expertise in boilers was well demonstrated in her work performance while she also took on a role as an interpreter during meetings and in her management duties. We anticipate that her close relationships with colleagues will also result in great business network for KOMIPO in the future. KOMIPO Sustainability Report 2011 19 Model Employee & Talent Cultivation System Model Employee To realize its corporate vision of “Beyond the border No.1 Thermal Power Company”, KOMIPO has identified four major strategies, namely: procurement of leadership in domestic power generation industry; diversification of overseas business areas abroad; low carbon green growth; and construction of a global management system. Also, to implement these 4 major strategies, and to reflect requirements for fostering talent, we set the goal for model employee as “Excellent Value Creators”(experts who can create new values for the organization) and by setting the 3 following subcategories of talent, which express the strong will of KOMIPO to foster global talent well balanced with expertise. Model Employee of KOMIPO Goal of Talent ‘Excellent Value Creator’ Experts creating new values for the organization Cultivation Model Employee Open-minded employees Creative employees pioneering Proactive employees leading constructing a culture of mutual a new future with passion and change and innovation not being respect through trust and harmony expertise tied to the present Talent Cultivation Strategy To realize talent according to our ideal representation, a systematic education program has been established and has been implemented for all of our employees. Education categories have been divided into common capabilities, leadership, global capability and professional duties, and by matching with required capabilities according to employees' rank, we allow employees to steadily progress in required capabilities at each stage of promotion. Category Common Capabilities Leadership Global Professional Duties 1st and 2nd 1st Rank CEO Rank Promotion Course Course Organizational 2nd Rank Leadership Interdisciplinary Course Courses at Liberal Vitalization SelfMiddle Manager New Manager Domestic 3rd Rank Arts of the Development Leadership Course Leadership Universities Power Plant Lectures Organization Course Course Education Center, Overseas Advanced V Academy, Cyber Self Leadership Business Overseas Boryeong Training Education 4th Rank Course Academy Business Center, on Duties Courses Education at Korea New Recruitment Third Year of Power Exchange New Employment Employees Training Course Course Professional Spirit of All Employees To foster experts leading the future electricity industry, customized self development opportunities are broadened through the separate operation of power plant training groups, internal MBA courses, and evening graduate schools. Also, through the ‘change & innovation expert education’ program, participated by all levels of the employees, changes in the rigid corporate culture is being sought through smooth communication across ranks. Additionally, through consistent increase in investments on training, we are increasing the capabilities of all employees. Investments on Training per Employee Number of Employees Received Professional Training | Unit : Persons | | Unit: USD | Category 2008 2009 2010 Total 2008 1,995 Internal MBA Courses Prior to establishment 36 14 50 Advanced Management Course 21 53 37 111 2009 1,660 Change & Innovation Expert Prior to establishment Prior to establishment 601 601 2010 2,043 Advanced Power Generation Course 582 400 193 1,175 Advanced Labor-Management Relations Course 77 82 19 178 Support for Acquisition of Professional Licenses 30 28 32 90 Evening Graduate School Course 5 4 5 14 20 Company Overview Highlights 2010 Governance Structure & Sustainable Management Human Rights & Labor Green Management Fair Business Customers Participation & Development of the Local Community Innovation & Creation Appendix Size of Training Groups per Power Plant Overview of Training Groups for all Power Plants | Unit: Persons | Operating Cycle 41 Two months training groups for shift workers at power plants are formed every two years 20 Training Group Activities to Develop Experts Strengthening expertise with education for high ranking employees 6 5 6 Benchmarking research of advanced overseas electricity companies 4 Acquisition of professional knowledge for machinery and control Boryeong Incheon Seoul Seocheon Jeju Total systems Fostering Global Leaders KOMIPO carries out leadership education tailored to all ranks of its workforce, with the goal of fostering global leaders and core talents of next generation. Each year, KOMIPO operates ‘Advanced overseas business courses’, the ‘Overseas business Academy’ and the ‘Overseas business Workshop’ to enhance the global mindset of all its employees and establish a pool of professional workforce for overseas businesses. Leadership Education Curriculum and number of Rank employees completed per rank (2010) 1 (Vice President) New Manager Leadership Course / 52 Persons Entrepreneur 2 (General Manager) General Manager Course / 100 Persons Team Leader Appointed General Manager Course / 41 Persons 3 (Senior Manager) Appointed Senior Manager Course / 69 Persons Frontline Leader Senior Manager Course / 261 Persons Newly Employed Basic Manager Course / 127 Persons Number of Professionally Trained Employees for Business Overseas | Unit : Persons | Course 2008 2009 2010 Total Advanced Overseas Business Course Prior to establishment 9 18 27 Overseas Business Academy 36 44 83 163 Overseas Business Workshop 90 87 127 304 Training for all employees to adapt to change Communication education for high ranking employees Oh Eui-heon Boryeong T/ P Site Div., Management Support Office, General Affairs & Planning Team Indonesia, the Center of KOMIPO’s Business Abroad Indonesia poses an attractive market for power generation with potential for great development in the energy industry, as only 55% of the total population has electricity. With its ample natural resources such as oil and coal, it also poses diverse business opportunities especially for renewable energy business having the largest tropical forest in South East Asia. By taking the advanced overseas business course, I was able to grasp a greater understanding of power generation businesses in Indonesia and around the world, and was able to learn courses dealing with difficult foreign financial procurement techniques and methods of international contracts that are hard to come by in Korea. Indonesia is being recognized for its great potential for development next to BRICS countries. I am proud of my company’s successful operation of electricity projects in such place. Go, KOMIPO! KOMIPO Sustainability Report 2011 21 Labor Management Relations Based on Trust and Mutual Respect Status of Labor Union The labor union of KOMIPO was founded as the Korea Power Plant Industry Union, and originally took the form of a Union Shop. But, after the allowance of multiple labor unions since July 2011, it is now composed of three labor unions, including Korea Power Plant Industry Union, KOMIPO Labor Union, and KOMIPO Public Labor Union. Current Composition of Labor Unions | As of Aug. 2011 | No. of Name of Labor Union Date Established Members Form Higher Authority Subordinate Organizations Korea Power Plant Jul. 24, 2001 IndustryKorea Confederation Seoul, Boryeong, Incheon, Seocheon, Industry Union 431 Specific of Trade Unions Jeju branches (total of 5 branches) CompanyHeadquarters, Boryeong, Incheon, KOMIPO Labor Union Jul. 25, 2011 961 Specific none Seoul, Seocheon, Jeju, Haengbok City, Shin Boryeong (total of 8 branches) KOMIPO Public CompanyAug. 8, 2011 5 Specific none No organization Labor Union Total 1,423Persons (including 26 non members) Strategy for With KOMIPO's vision for the “realization of an advanced labor-management culture of trust and mutual respect”, Labor-Management Culture and in order to realize its four major target goals, 23 main issues have been selected to promote sustainable growth through work-life balance for all its associated employees, along with the development of a labor-management roadmap until 2015. Mission Realizing an Advanced Labor-Management Culture of Trust and Mutual Respect Promoted Goals A rational Labor-Management A Labor-Management A Labor-Management Advancement of Culture Culture of Trust Culture of Innovation remuneration Management Strategy Promotion of advancement of Activation of communication Strengthening of innovative Construction of a remuneration Challenges labor-management relations Consolidation of a cooperative activities in the workplace framework based on capability Establishment of management labor-management relationship Reconsideration of company and performance rights and authority over Open management of values and guaranteeing Realization of a family friendly human resources voluntary participation quality of life company Strengthening of expertise in Joint social responsibility of Customized life-long labor management labor and management remuneration framework Diverse Communication Channels Every two years, KOMIPO’s labor union and five GENCOs Number of Labor-Management Talks & for Labor-Management agree on a collective bargaining process that defines Unity Events employees’ union activities, working conditions and other No. of Talks No. of Events issues, while hosting a Labor-Management Cooperation 88 Council composed of 8 committee members (each from labor 62 unions and management). The goal of the council is to improve 48 32 22 the understanding and cooperation of labor unions in main 16 management issues of the company and operate diverse channels of communication for the enhancement of employees’ 2008 2009 2010 well-being and working conditions. Labor-Management Communication Channels Union-Management Cooperation Council Increasing profitability for both labor and management (per quarter) Union-Management Roundtable Discussions Collecting opinion and sharing of information Year-round Meeting on Industrial Health & Safety Joint industrial health & safety activities (per quarter) Channels Presentation of Management Issues Sharing understanding and awareness of management conditions (per half-year) Strategy Meeting Jointly Held for Labor & Management Discussion on company’s current agenda and seeking solutions (every month) Special Union-Management Council Practical labor-management negotiations on the current agenda Management Vitalization Conversations Operation of individual programs per work-site (all year) Provisional Channels Management Bulletin Board Disclosure of management information in response to changes in the management environment Rainbow Chatroom (3P world) Conversations through 3P World Website (all year) Conversations with Part Time & Full Time Employees Communication & mutual exchange with employees from different departments 22 Company Overview Highlights 2010 Governance Structure & Sustainable Management Human Rights & Labor Green Management Fair Business Customers Participation & Development of the Local Community Innovation & Creation Appendix Management Strategy Meeting Jointly Opened to Labor & Management I am confident that the common Above all else, the Union will stand by efforts of labor and management the company, listening attentively to its on the current management difficult managing environment, and agenda will be well worthwhile. join forces to solve such issues. CEO Labor Union Committee Leader Expansion of Trusting To accomplish a competitive organizational culture through labor-management cooperation, KOMIPO strives to Labor-Management Culture create trusting labor-management culture through the operation of various communication channels, programs for the enhancement of GWP (Great Work Place) index, and a variety of unity events for both parties. As a result, KOMIPO received official recognition from diverse institutions for achieving excellence in labor-management relations. Labor Management Related Awards Year Awarded Fortune Magazine Awards “Best Korean Company to Work” in the category of public enterprise 2010 2006 : Seocheon Thermal Three certificates awarded (biggest number for power plants in the electricity industry), by The Ministry of Employment & Labor “Excellence in Labor-Management Culture” Awards 2008 : Jeju Thermal 2009 : Seoul Thermal Certification of AA Standard in the ‘Best Family Friendly Company’ awards presented by the Ministry 2009 of Gender Equality & Family 1 2 3 1. Fortune Magazine Award, “Best Korean Company to Work” in the public enterprise criteria 2. In recognition of contribution to Labor-Management Cooperation, 5th-level Order of Industrial Service Merit was awarded to the Chairman of the Jeju Branch 3. Award Ceremony for the Best Family Friendly Company Certificate KOMIPO Sustainability Report 2011 23 A Welfare System with Work-Life Balance Enhancement of Welfare To form a pleasant corporate culture and enhance employee satisfaction, surveys of have been carried out Satisfaction of Employees in the area of welfare since 2005. Based on the survey results, opinions have been collected and factors for improvement have been reflected to improve employee satisfaction. Welfare Satisfaction of Employees 92% 93% 94% 85% 2005-2006 2007 2008-2009 2010 Employee Welfare and A systematic employee welfare and services are provided to create a “work-life balance in corporate culture”. Services Program For practical enhancement of the benefit package, a recipient-oriented welfare system is under operation. System Main Contents of Operation Providing company residence, Housing and lifestyle loans Stabilization of Residence and Life Operation of dormitories for university students(children of employees working away from the capital Support for expenses on child-care Child Care Support English & Science Camps for employee’s children, Opening of the Boryeong “One Heart World” Subsidy for university tuition Subsidy for life events (congratulations and condolences), Group insurance coverage Company Funds Relief fund for natural disasters Training Centers(Sokcho, Suanbo, Muju and Jeju) Family-Friendly Welfare Discount benefits for summer resorts & condominiums Nursing facilities in workplace Selective Welfare System Personalized choices of souvenirs, Cultural activities Support for Self Development Subsidies for language training fees, Reading and internet training Support for Medical Welfare Tailored medical welfare agreements with hospitals Operation of a Vacation System Vacations for long-term employees, Annual holidays, Self-development and celebration or condolence events Kim Jai-sik Power Generation Department, Green Management Team, Senior Manager My performance has improved through communicating with my children Jaesik Kim, the Senior Manager of the Green Management Team, Power Generation Department is one of the first generation of child care leave takers. Although the Act on Equal Gender Employment allowing men to take child care leave was revised in 1995, paid child care leave initiated by the government was only introduced in 2001. In 2001, two married men claimed child care leave, and Kim Jaesik followed suit the following year. Kim recounts that “due to the lack of awareness of the policy within the company, everybody was surprised when I declared childcare leave”. With both parents working at Choongcheong-namdo, Boryeong, Mr. Kim started to feel remoteness from his child when he had to leave his child with his parents during the week, only to meet her on weekends. His second daughter was born when his wife moved her workplace to Daejeon, and Mr. Kim resolved to take child-care leave instead of his wife. However, the process was far from easy. He had to persuade his superior for three months, and gain support from his colleagues. When he finally gained permission for child care leave, Mr. Kim could finally take his elder daughter to the nursery each morning and play with his children in the park. He felt strong sense of connection with his children seeing how happy they were. Mr. Kim talks of how he “worried that there may be discrimination before taking leave, but no such thing happened.” and added that employees who have given their all at the workplace can reap the benefits of supporting one’s family and better dedicating themselves to work after returning from child care leave. 24 Company Overview Highlights 2010 Governance Structure & Sustainable Management Human Rights & Labor Green Management Safety & Health Fair Business Customers Participation & Development of the Local Community Innovation & Creation Appendix Under the corporate ideology of ‘putting humankind and nature first, leading the way in development of the energy industry’, and its safe management vision of ‘World Class in Safety’, three main strategies for safety are consistently being pursued under the goal of achieving ‘three zeros’ of zero disasters, zero accidents and zero injuries. Vision Framework Mission Vision 2015 World Class in Safety Goal ‘Three Zeros’ of Zero Disasters, Zero Accidents and Zero Injuries. Strategy Advanced Enhancement of Safety Optimization of a Network Response Securing of Facility Safety and Awareness System to Natural Disasters Realization of Zero Disasters Implementation Plans Construction of an advanced system Strengthening of capacity to respond Securing of safety in power generation, Internalization of safety and to disasters Civil engineering and construction facilities health education Internalization of a disaster safety Creation of a pleasant working environment management system Construction of an Advanced Safety Work efficiency was enhanced by constructing an integrated Web environment management system for Management System disasters, safety and health, which discloses, shares and exchanges safety related information. This system has been improved and complemented through the acquisition of KOSHA18001 and a program of workplace safety certificates and consistent follow-up management. Also, construction and promotion of the OHSAS18001, which observes international standards, contributes to the enhancement of external ratings in safety management and overseas business, in keeping with KOMIPO's global status. Certification of KOSHA 18001 Worksite Boryeong Thermal Incheon Thermal Seoul Thermal Seocheon Thermal Jeju Thermal First Certificate Jun. 9, 2004 Dec. 15,. 2003 Nov. 29, 2002 Sep. 22, 2003 Dec. 13, 2003 Follow-Up Management Jun. 9, 2010 May. 19, 2010 May. 07, 2010 Jul. 16, 2010 May. 25, 2010 Also, having concluded an agreement for the construction of a 'Certification System for Diagnosis of disaster prevention safety and workplace safety' jointly with Korea Certification Association, and having operated comprehensive diagnosis in the field of disaster prevention safety throughout power plants such as Boryeong Thermal, KOMIPO has acquired a Safety-Zone Certificate, and is consistently evaluated on follow-up management. This result is from being recognized for our efforts to improve operation management of firefighting equipment and our ability to respond to natural disasters. Particularly, the construction of an integrated disaster prevention center in 2009 is the first such case by a power generating company, and is accompanied by the operation of a round the clock expert disaster prevention manager to build the foundation for autonomous disaster prevention administration and speedy and systematic situation control. Current Status of Certificate of Workplace Safety Worksite Boryeong Thermal Incheon Thermal Seoul Thermal Seocheon Thermal Jeju Thermal First Certificate Jan. 2, 2008 Jan. 2, 2008 Oct. 18, 2007 Jan. 2, 2008 Jan. 2, 2008 Follow-Up Management Feb. 17, 2009 Feb. 12, 2009 Feb. 24, 2009 Mar. 04, 2009 Mar. 10, 2009 Integrated System for Safety & Health Management Integrated Disaster Prevention Center at Boryeong Thermal in the event of natural disasters KOMIPO Sustainability Report 2011 25 Safety & Health Operation & Construction According to the Framework Act on Disasters and Safety Management and other legislations, a National of a Natural Disaster Safety Security/Emergency Preparedness Plan and Framework Act for Disaster, Health and Safety Management have Management System been established throughout the company along with the production and implementation of a risk response manual for each type of disaster to prepare for natural disasters including meteorological disasters and power plant mishaps. In particular, given the type of natural disaster that may occur at power plants, an onsite action manual and an SMS emergency message system for the protection of all employees during emergency situations has been developed. The quarterly implementation of company initiated onsite training and biannual response training involving the management level helps KOMIPO to fulfill its practical, work-site centered and systematic disaster management responsibilities. Response Training to Natural Disasters Name of Manual Type of Risk Response to Risk of Damage Damage or flooding of power generation facilities due to storms or floods from Storms or Floods Destruction of architecture, Civil engineering or construction facilities due to snow storms Response to Risk of Earthquake Subsidence or destruction of facility foundations due to earthquakes Disasters Subsidence or loss of facilities due to tsunamis Response to Risk of Electricity Natural disasters, sudden increase in demand, breakdown of electricity, labor strikes etc. Related Hazards Shortage of electricity supply due to social factors Response training for toxic chemical leakage Response training for fires Response training for disaster prevention at sea Organizational Chart of Risk Management All Clear Surveillance Detection of Assessment of Increase of Risk for Symptoms Symptoms the Situation Attention Alert Emergency Countermeasure Headquarters Caution Alert Cooperation Countermeasure Elimination Standby Alert Activities of Risk Cooperating Ministry of Bodies of Related Knowledge Agencies Economy Emergency Alert Prior Consultation Increase of Risk Occurrence of Risk Countermeasure Recovery Activities Response System for Emergency Alarm Type Work Duties of Employees Maintaining normal work duties, Checking of employees' White(Caution) whereabouts and identification of the situation by related workers Emergency shifts for over half of employees from related Green(Standby) departments at the headquarters and related worksite SMS System for Issuing Emergency Alarm Emergency shifts for all employees from related departments Red(Emergency) at the headquarters and related worksite 26 Company Overview Highlights 2010 Governance Structure & Sustainable Management Human Rights & Labor Green Management Fair Business Customers Participation & Development of the Local Community Innovation & Creation Appendix Current Status of Safety Hazards & To reinforce firm awareness of safety through 'First, compliance to safety regulations, Second, safe work', and Zero Accidents achieve zero human accidents, a three strikes out safety system has been adopted in 2009. This system revises the company guidelines for the activation and consolidation of the system and strictly manages any violations of the safety code by reflecting any incidences in the company’s internal evaluation system index, thus building a foundation for the establishment of a World Class, Safety First company culture. No. of Days with Zero Accidents As of Dec. 31, 2010 Status of Industrial Accident Rate Number of Days with KOMIPO(%) Average of similar companies(%) Worksite Date Established Zero Accidents Average of the industry(%) 0.8 0.71 0.7 Boryeong Thermal Oct 16. 2007 1,172 0.69 Incheon Thermal Aug 13. 2009 506 0.6 Seoul Thermal Nov 07. 1980 11,005 0.4 0.26 0.2 0.18 Seocheon Thermal Aug 01. 2009 518 0.16 0.05 0.09 Jeju Thermal Jan 01. 1983 10,220 0 0 2008 2009 2010 Operation of the Industrial Safety & KOMIPO complies with the related act and treaties to regulate the management of safety and enhancement Health Committee of health of its employees. The Korea Occupational Safety and Health Agency has published management standards as of July 18th 2003 and it has been hosted each quarter in 5 power plants including Boryeong Thermal. KOMIPO has resolved to actively operate the Framework Act on the Management of Disasters and Safety, with inspection of causes of industrial disasters and countermeasure to prevent re-occurrence, establishment of an enhancement plan for safety & health, intensive discussions on factors related to prevention measures for workers in potentially harmful environments, and assessment of working environments and factors related to health check-ups for employees. Health Care Program┃Regular health check-up programs are carried out for employees, and a computerbased health management system follows and monitors brain and cardiovascular disease and diabetes cases as preventive measures for work-related illnesses. Labor-management negotiations determine the timing for the assessments of work environments in each power plant, while inspections of noise pollution, dust and heavy metals in the worksites are measured under the scrutiny of the labor union. Improvement plans are established based on the results of these assessments and submitted to the Korea Occupational Safety & Health Agency. Carrying out Health Check-ups Assessing the Work Environment Type of Health Check-up Cycle Subjects Harmful Factors Cycle Subjects Office workers and all employees exempting those Noise pollution, Twice Work sites dealing with work General Health Check-up Once every year subject to special health check-ups dust, etc. every year shifts and bituminous coal Employees working in hazardous environments, Certain chemical Worksites with laboratory Special Health Check-up Once every year employees dealing with chemical substances substances and Once workers and workers handling organic solvents every year organic solvents Health Check-Up Prior Employees who have transferred work duties (newly to Assignment All round the year recruited employees subject to special health check-ups) Specialized Blood Inspection Once every two years All Employees Main Health Care Activities in 2010 Investigation of harmful factors on work duties related to musculoskeletal disorders, and Operation of family health care programs for health enhancement reinforcement of health programs through specialized agencies for employees' families Preventive education for musculoskeletal disorders, stretching competitions, fitness measurement etc. Family health check-ups, quit smoking clinics, vaccinations etc. Internalization of general and specialized health check-up’s, management of employees with past Installation and operation of automated blood pressure devices and medical complications, and operation of health programs oxygen generators within the main control room of power plants Additional chest X-ray diagnosis for special health check-ups Company initiated emergency relief and cardiopulmonary Provision of heated jackets in the winter and cooling jackets in the summer for power plant employees resuscitation education (including partner businesses) KOMIPO Sustainability Report 2011 27 Creating Future Energy for Growth Green Management Vision | A world class company that puts nature and humankind first Strategy | Management of eco-friendly power plants, Reinforcement of capacity to respond to climate changes Issue | Responding to climate changes, Environmental management system Performances | Construction of electronic greenhouse gas emissions management system, Designation of green companies for all worksites, Construction of green management system Plan | Leaping forward to become ECO Global Top 10 in Energy Utility Industry by 2015 Management Team | Green Management Team Emissions per GWh Possession of Carbon Emission Rights Emissions of Air Polluting Substances 1.162 0.739 0.737 7.0 0.864 0.692 0.773 84.2% 6.1% 1.9 3.8 Increase from the 10.5% Decrease from Previous Year Decrease from the the Previous Year Previous Year 2008 2009 2010 (tCO₂/GWh) 2008 2009 2010 (Ten Thousand Tons) 2008 2009 2010 (g/kWh) Company Overview Highlights 2010 Governance Structure & Sustainable Management Human Rights & Labor Green Management Green Management Fair Business Customers Participation & Development of the Local Community Innovation & Creation Appendix System Green Management Vision & Goal To progress towards becoming a world class company that puts nature and humankind first, KOMIPO established a mid-long term environmental management promotion strategy (ECO-2015) with the goal of becoming an ECO Global Top 10 in the Energy Utility Industry by 2015. Action plans have been designated and carried out in four areas, with 47 target goals, including expansion as an environmentally-friendly company, the operation of environmentally friendly power plants, reinforcing capacity to respond to climate changes, and strengthening partnerships with stakeholders. Green Management Vision A World Class Company Putting Nature and humankind First Green Management Goal ECO Global Top 10 in Energy Utility Industry Promotion Strategy Expansion as an Operation of Environmentally Reinforcement of Capability to Strengthening of Partnerships Environmentally Friendly Power Plants Respond to Climate Changes with Stakeholders Friendly Company Specific Promotion Strengthening organizational Efficient use of resources Strengthening of the capability Efforts to prevent Strategy promotion of environmental to respond to climate change environmental complaints Minimization of emissions of management air polluting substances Voluntary greenhouse gas Expansion of ecosystem Consolidation and development Consistent promotions reduction efforts protection program of an integrated environmental of innovative environmental Active creation of new Reinforcement of external management system management revenue opportunities related to cooperation Sustainable promotion of Recycling of resources and climate change innovative environmental minimization of waste disposal management activities Green innovation of power Reinforcement of an emergency plants response system Construction of an environmentally friendly company culture Action Plans (47) 16 in 5 areas 15 in 5 areas 7 in 3 areas 9 in 3 areas ECO-GT10 in Energy Utility Industry: Enhancing the environmental management capacity of our company to top ten in the world in energy utility industries by 2015, green management measures are displayed on the company website : (www.komipo.co.kr) Performance of Green Management Goals Specific Promotion Performance Term of Term of Promotion Strategy Promotion Performance Subject Promotion Promotion Strategy Promotion Performance Subject Promotion Establishment of an environmental All worksites 2009 Establishment of greenhouse gas Expansion and performance evaluation system services emission reduction targets by 2020 All worksites 2009 Development of and countermeasures for the Maintenance of a green company All worksites ~2010 mid-long term treaty on climate change Environmentally throughout all worksites Friendly Fostering climate change experts All worksites 2008~2010 Support for certification of ISO14001 Partner Management environmental management system 2008~2010 Promotion of securing of UN Carbon Wind Power Companies Reinforcement 2010 for partner companies of Capacity to Emission Rights etc. Installation of optimized environmental Respond Promotion of greenhouse gas reduction Boryeong to Climate Change 2010 pollution prevention utilities All worksites ~2010 plans for sewage sludge combustion (de-sulphurization and de-nitrification facilities) Participation in model carbon Boryeong 2008~2009 emission rights trading Diagnosis of functions of air All worksites 2008~2010 environment utilities Establishment of a greenhouse gas emission rate management system All worksites 2009~2010 Construction of a digital waste All worksites 2009 (ISO 14064) throughout the company Operation of an transfer system Environmentally Carrying out of 1 worksite-1 river All worksites 2008~2010 Friendly Power Promotion of countermeasures to (mountains, rivers) nurturing campaigns prevent dust from coal depots Boryeong 2010 Plant Support for increase of income projects All worksites and coal dust 2008~2010 Strengthening for surrounding areas of power plants Conclusion of MOU to recycle Seocheon 2009 Partnerships with Resolution of public complaints reclaimed coal ash in Saemangeum Stakeholders concerning compensation for fishery Boryeong 2009 Promotion of zero use of harmful Incheon industry damage in the Boryeong port chemical substances (Hydrazine) 2010 Environmental Monitoring Boryeong, Promotion of start-up fuel use Seocheon 2008~2010 Boryeong 2010 Citizen Group utilizing fuel by-products KOMIPO Sustainability Report 2011 29 Green Management System Performance of Performance and Goals in Main Indexes for Green Management Green Management Goals Category Performance Goal Main Index 2008 2009 2010 2015 Emission of SOx(g/kWh) 0.49 0.28 0.24 0.23 Minimization of Emission of Air Polluting Substances Emission of NOx(g/kWh) 0.65 0.57 0.52 0.44 Emission of dust(g/kWh) 0.022 0.014 0.013 0.013 Rate of recycling of the water supply(%) 88.7 81.4 87.2 93.0 Minimization of Emission of Water Polluting Substances Emission of COD(g/GWh) 27.7 35.1 29.5 13.0 Emission of SS(g/GWh) 14.7 19.4 16.2 10.0 Rate of coal ash recycling(%) 69.7 55.8 57.5 75.0 Recycling of Resources Rate of desulphurized gypsum recycling(%) 100 100 85 100 Response to Climate Change Emission of CO₂(kgCO₂/kWh) 0.739 0.737 0.692 0.670 Minimization of Emissions of Air Polluting Substances SOx (g/kWh) NOx (g/kWh) CO₂ (g/kWh) 0.8 0.739 0.737 0.65 0.692 0.670 0.6 0.57 0.52 0.49 0.44 0.4 0.2 0.28 0.24 0.23 0 2008 2009 2010 2015 Green Management System System & Organization┃ Since the company-wide certification of ISO 14001 in 2004, all employees have been involved with promotion of consistent environmental enhancement. As a result, KOMIPO has received optimal results in all follow up inspections carried out each year, maintaining its certification of ISO 14001. Also, KOMIPO has succeeded in expansionary transition to a more modern system of green management, by adding an energy resources management system, a greenhouse gas management system and social responsibility in the field of environmental management to the existing energy management system in 2011. The Green Management System of KOMIPO is in operation under the systematic process of 'Plan, Do, Check, Action' centered on the green management team at the headquarters (1Team Manager, 6Team Members) and teams that carry out green management at each worksite. Organizational Chart of Green Management System President & CEO Power Generation Department 5 Power Plants 3 Construction Sites Green Management Environment & Construction System (GMS) Chemistry Team Management Team 30 Company Overview Highlights 2010 Governance Structure & Sustainable Management Human Rights & Labor Green Management Fair Business Customers Participation & Development of the Local Community Innovation & Creation Appendix Flow Chart of Green Management System Plan Do Establishment of measures and mid-long term Operate optimized environmental facilities at power plants framework are followed by implementation putting utmost efforts in environmental enhancement for the of related strategies to realize a world class accomplishment of specified goals. We also carry out consistent company putting nature and humankind first as environmental education to strengthen the capacity for green its Green Management vision. management of all employees. Green Management Process Action Check Results of internal inspections on green Operate internal inspections, investigations on the environmental management are reflected in the green condition and various performance evaluation programs for management goals and promotion plans, through the efficient operation of the Green management system and consideration of changes in internal and external evaluation of suitability for environmental management status. environmental circumstances. Emergency Response System for The utmost efforts are being made through preventive measures in order to achieve zero environmental Environmental Hazards accidents. An emergency response system, disaster prevention countermeasure organizations and emergency contact networks with related agencies have been established, and are operated to speedily respond in case of environmental accident . Also, case-by-case scenarios have been established to ensure effective responses according to the type of environmental accident through educational training at least once each year. Disaster Prevention Training 1_ Training to respond to oil leakage, operated Disaster Prevention Training 2_ Training to respond to leakage of toxic under the disaster prevention of oil leakage scenario substances, operated under the preparation for toxic substance leakage scenario Inspection & Training of Green Inspection of Green Management┃ Each year, a green management evaluation is carried out to minimize Management potential risks through evaluation of the suitability and effective operation and management of the green management system. In particular, inspections of environment related technology at power plants and internal evaluation systems are jointly carried out to achieve improvements in especially vulnerable environmental fields, along with active maintenance of green management. The results of green management evaluations are given prompt and appropriate assessment or, further enhanced by reflecting the issue in the mid-long term green management goals and annual green management targets and promotion plans. Type Auditing Agency Subject Power Plant Miscellaneous Follow up Inspection of green companies Ministry of the Environment All worksites Once every year Follow up Inspection of green management systems Korea Standards Association All worksites Once every year Internal diagnosis of green management system Internal Auditing All worksites Once every year Investigations on the actual conditions of environmental management Internal Auditing All worksites Once every year Internal evaluation of environmental management Internal Auditing All worksites Once every year Inspections by external agencies Local Governments, Environmental Offices All worksites All year round KOMIPO Sustainability Report 2011 31 Green Management System Green Management Education┃ A wide range of education programs are in operation to increase awareness and strengthen capabilities for green management. Regular basic knowledge education on green management is carried out for all employees and partner companies, and KOMIPO actively encourages participation in classes at the Korea Power Learning Institute to nurture job capabilities in respective fields. Additionally, for acquisition of advanced green management techniques and specialized knowledge in each field, domestic and international specialized agencies are commissioned to educate and develop leaders for green management. No. of Employees Educated Category Green Management Education Programs 2008 2009 2010 · Trends in domestic and international environmental policy Basic Education · Lectures by invited speakers All All All (Headquarters & Worksites) · Environmental vision and measures Employees Employees Employees · Promotion plans for Eco-2015 · Power generation water treatment duties · Environmental assessment duties Job Training · Air environment duties (Korea Power Learning Institute) · Desulfurization facilities duties 14 14 21 · Water quality environment duties · Combustion management duties · Education abroad in the field of environmental technology (educational agencies under APTI, EPA of the US) Commissioned Education by · Education for ISO14001 inspectors 36 33 44 Specialized Agencies · Commissioned education by TMS on Chimney Inspection · Education regarding response to climate change treaties Green Management Accounting Establishment of a Green Management Accounting System┃ To efficiently calculate the cost of green management, a green management accounting system has been established and is under the consolidated operation with e-KOMIPO system which is an enterprise resource planning (ERP) of KOMIPO, providing real time calculations of costs related to green management such as pre and post-treatment activity costs and operation costs for environmental facilities. This system supports speedy decision making concerning company management and help to reinforce the transparency of green management information. Investment in Green Management┃ KOMIPO actively strives for the realization of a green management mindset through optimum installation and maintenance of environmental facilities and consistent investment throughout all power plants in technology development related to reducing environmental impact. Green management costs can be generally categorized into installation costs, operation costs and technology development costs. Installation and repair costs are included in installation costs, while electricity, water, chemical, human resource and waste disposal costs are included in operation costs. Research and development costs and education costs are included in technology development costs. | Unit: thousand USD | Category 2008 2009 2010 Environmental Facility Installation Costs 110,286 105,423 8,817 Environmental Facility Operation Costs 44,949 61,151 53,555 Research and Development Costs 1,364 2,440 1,537 Education Costs 25 10 27 Environmental Facility Development Costs Misc Costs 616 727 561 Subtotal 2,005 3,117 2,125 Total 157,240 169,751 64,497 *2008, 2009 Recorded high investments due to new installation of environmental facilities at Boryeong Thermal, while investment decreased in 2010 due to no new construction of power plants. *Misc costs include the total costs of inspecting environmental impacts on the surrounding areas due to the construction and operation of power plants. *From 2011, Performance data on costs regarding green product purchases will be calculated and displayed. 32 Company Overview Highlights 2010 Governance Structure & Sustainable Management Human Rights & Labor Green Management Operation and Fair Business Customers Participation & Development of the Local Community Innovation & Creation Appendix Performance of Green Management Environmentally Friendly Power Environmentally harmful substances produced at thermal power plants can be divided into two categories: dust Generation Process from the combustion process of power generation fuels, and water waste from sulfur oxides and nitrogen oxides created from water used in power generation. To minimize the amount of waste disposed, KOMIPO has optimal environmental pollution prevention facilities installed which is being operated efficiently, leading the way to create pleasant environment. Environmental Preservation Activities by Power Plants Monitor Flue Gas Eliminate SOx and Dust Reduce NOx Prevent Noise Pollution Harmonize with Surrounding Environment Monitor Flue Gas Bring Boilers Safety Valve Indoors Silencer Bring Turbine Rooms Flue Gas Processing Indoors Machine Flue Gas Denitrogenization Facility Power Generator Flue Gas Desulphurization Electric Coal Ash Condenser Transformer Switches Transmission Home, Plant Equipment Precipitation Tower Gypsum Coal Ash Intake Belt Conveyor (Dustproof Device Recycle Attached) Resources Prevent Scattering of Coal Effectively Use Coal Ash Gypsum Storage Storage Surveillance of Closed-type Reclaimer Waste Water Temperature Coal Loader Water Waste-Water Treatment Equipment Lakeside Or Coal Ship Bank Coal Treatment Sprinkler Coal Storage Drainage Facility for Yard Clean Drainage Monitor Drainage Coal Ash Water Water Management of Emission Tele-Monitoring System (TMS)┃ To consistently reduce air and water polluting substances created through Reduction power plant operations, environmental pollution prevention facilities are under operation. The installation and operation of a Tele-monitoring System for real time measurements and monitor of the density of pollutants allows round the clock monitoring of emissions through online transferring of information on the emission density to the control center and company surveillance system. To enhance transparency, data regarding TMS measurement criteria is disclosed to stakeholders through the Korea Environment Management Corporation, administrative agencies and the company website. Also, an electronic waste-level transfer system is used to improve the transparency for waste treatment, while a management system for greenhouse gas emissions is in operation reflecting KOMIPO’s commitment to deal with the most important issues of the 21st Century. Tele-Monitoring System Wireless(CDMA) Wired Measuring Equipment Data Collection Data Transmission Control Center Ministry of on Worksites Equipment Equipment Seoul Metropolitan Area_ Incheon Environment Honam Regions_ Suncheon Integrated Yeongnam Regions_ Ulsan Control Center Midland Regions_ Daejeon Regional Governments Automatically Managed System KOMIPO Sustainability Report 2011 33 Operation and Performance of Green Management Air Quality Control Air pollutants from the power plant include substances such as sulfur oxides, nitrogen oxides and dust. To minimize the air pollutant emissions, optimized air pollution prevention facilities are installed in existing and new power generating facilities mainly on coal power plants, while Seoul and Incheon Thermal use ecofriendly LNG as their main resource for fuel in order to fundamentally prevent the emission of pollutants. Also, KOMIPO was the first power company to establish a systematic function diagnosis system for air pollution prevention facilities since 2008. As a result of such efforts, the rate of air polluting substances emitted each year per production unit have steadily decreased, with decreases of 50% for SOx, 14% for NOx and 38% for dust decrease in 2010 compared to the emission rate per production unit in 2008. Legal regulation on the emission of air polluting substances is managed according to emission concentration. The 2010 air pollutant emission concentration records per power plant showed that influence on the environmental impact due to the operation of power plants was minimized through emitting a substantially lower concentration of Sox, NOx and dust throughout all power plants compared to the emission standards. Sulphur Oxides (SOx) Emission Rates of Air Polluting Substances Emission Emission Concentration Prevention Emission Standards (ppm) Emission Concentration(ppm) SOx Emissions (g/kWh) Standards 2008 2009 2010 Facilities 2010 NOx Emissions (g/kWh) Dust Emissions (g/kWh) 1~2 100 146 52 44 44 100 Boryeong 3~6 100 43 38 38 Desulfurization 38 100 0.65 0.57 7~8 80 28 38 27 Facilities 27 80 0.52 0.49 Seocheon 1~2 100 58 63 50 50 100 0.28 0.24 2~3 180 137 122 130 Use of low sulfur oil 130 180 Jeju 0.022 Internal 70 12 12 14 Desulfurization 0.014 0.013 Combustion Facilities 14 70 2008 2009 2010 * Less than 0.3% Sulphur Dust Emission Emission Concentration Prevention Emission Standards(mg/Sm3) Standards 2008 2009 2010 Facilities Emission Concentration(mg/Sm3) 2010 1~6 30 11 10 7 7 30 Boryeong 7~8 20 5 5 6 6 20 Seocheon 1~2 40 10 9 8 Electric 8 40 Precipitation 2~3 40 5 6 5 5 40 Jeju Internal 20 4 5 4 Combustion 4 20 * Use of the eco-friendly fuel, LNG in Boryeong Combined Thermal, Incheon Thermal and Seoul Thermal guarantees zero emissions of SOx and dust. Nitrogen Oxide (NOx) Emission Emission Concentration Prevention Emission Standards(ppm) Standards 2008 2009 2010 Facilities 2010 Emission Concentration(ppm) 1~2 150 202 134 94 94 150 3~6 150 80 87 86 LNB+SCR 86 150 Boryeong 7~8 80 46 57 59 59 80 Combined 100 30 41 30 LNB 30 100 1~2 70 12 15 19 LNB+SCR 19 70 Incheon Combined 50 19 21 21 LNB 21 50 Seoul 4~5 150 17 33 26 SCR 26 150 Seocheon 1~2 350 214 217 227 227 350 LNB+OFA 2~3 150 131 123 88 88 150 Jeju Internal combustion 300 178 230 228 SCR 228 300 34 Company Overview Highlights 2010 Governance Structure & Sustainable Management Human Rights & Labor Green Management Fair Business Customers Participation & Development of the Local Community Innovation & Creation Appendix Water Quality Control Waste water is produced from power plants through boiler water quality management processes, pure water production and operation of desulfurization facilities. For it optimal disposal, comprehensive waste water treatment facilities and desulfurization waste water treatment facilities are in operation in all power plants. In addition, Biological Waste Water Treatment” and “Waste Water Treatment using evaporation and condensation” is installed using cutting-edge technologies for intensive waste water treatment and operated at Boryeong and Seocheon Thermal. Establishment of a zero-discharge system of waste water also further ensures control of the cleanliness of water resources. Water Quality Control through Comprehensive Waste Water Treatment Facilities PH COD (mg/ℓ) SS (mg/ℓ) Emission Emission Concentration Emission Emission Concentration Emission Emission Concentration Category Standards 2008 2009 2010 Standards 2008 2009 2010 Standards 2008 2009 2010 Boryeong 5.8~8.6 6.9 6.9 6.7 50 3 2 4 40 3 3 3 Incheon 5.8~8.6 7.2 7.3 7.3 130 9 6 11 120 3 3 4 Seoul 5.8~8.6 6.9 6.7 6.8 90 4 4 3 80 3 3 2 Seocheon 5.8~8.6 7.2 7.4 7.3 130 4 4 8 120 4 2 1 Jeju 5.8~8.6 7.0 6.9 6.9 50 5 5 5 40 2 3 4 Water Usage Management Water usage at thermal power plants includes water used for power generation, desulfurization, and drinking water. For the efficient use of industrial water resources and increase in re-cycling of water supply, KOMIPO is promoting the realization of zero leakage, identification of power plants in need of re-use and process enhancement measures, and construction of a zero-discharge system of waste water. As a result, re-cycling of the water supply was increased to 87% in 2010 from 37% in 2000. Moreover, for development of new waste water treatment technologies, the Pilot Plant with 'eco-friendly high-efficiency desalination facilities' has been in operation at Incheon Thermal, the first of its kind in Korea, while future practical use of the facilities is expected to contribute greatly to further reduce the water usage. Drained Water_ includes all water discharged from the operation of electricity production including Uesd steam-condensed water, recycled water at water Category Rate of Power Generated Rate of Water Used Usage Rate per GRW Drained Water Recycling Ratio demineralizing facilities, sample water, etc. Water with suitable quality is recycled as raw water or 2008 41,756 (GWh) 6,157 (thousand tons) 147.5 (ton/GWh) 88.7 (%) filtered water prior to the waste water treatment 2009 45,745 (GWh) 7,762 (thousand tons) 169.7 (ton/GWh) 51.4 (%) process, while the rest of the water is re-cycled by being treated in facilities such as reverse osmosis 2010 55,724 (GWh) 8,125 (thousand tons) 145.8 (ton/GWh) 87.2 (%) water and activated carbon filters, etc in the waste water treatment process. Control of Chemical Substances At the power plants, specialized chemical substances are used to prevent the corrosion of power plant facilities for general production and waste disposal, while high efficiency coagulants that provide greater effects with smaller amounts of chemicals are used to reduce rates of chemical substances. In addition, a non-injection deoxidant system to suppress the use of harmful substances and treatment techniques using oxygen have been adopted and implemented. Also, testing and verification for zero-hydrazine, a representative harmful chemical substance, are on its way for general application to all worksites throughout the power plant for the first time in Korea. While the annual use of chemical substance is increasing due to an increase in the use of Ammonia for the elimination of Nitrogen Oxides, the increase in usage rate is lower compared to the increase in power generation, reflecting a progressive reduction in the use of chemical substances. Performance in Use of Chemical Substances Category 2008 2009 2010 Amount of Power Generated(GWh) 41,756 45,745 55,724 Amount used(tons) 11,230 12,492 14,001 Per GWh (ton/GWh) 0.27 0.27 0.25 KOMIPO Sustainability Report 2011 35 Operation and Performance of Green Management Waste and By-Products of Power Approximately 30 types of waste are produced by power plants, including waste oil, discarded heat insulation Generation materials and waste synthetic resins. Efforts are being made to minimize impact on the environment with an aim to recycle all recyclable wastes and consign any unrecyclable waste to specialized agencies for treatment. Other than aforementioned wastes, coal ash and desulfurized gypsum are produced as by-products of power plant operations. Coal ash produced from the combustion process of coal is recycled for use in major construction materials such as ready-mixed cement and as raw material for cement, while desulfurized gypsum produced from desulfurization facilities is re-cycled 100% as the main ingredient for gypsum boards. A great amount of effort is made for consistent increase of waste recycle through diversification of markets, promotion of research and development and discovery of alternative uses, such as recycling reclaimed coal ash in Saemangeum (an area of reclaimed land), developing fertilizers made from coal ash and other researches on high value-added and high mass recycling. Waste Generated and Recycled per Year | Unit : Tons | Coal Ash and Desulfurized Gypsum Recycled | Unit : Thousand tons | Category 2008 2009 2010 Worksites in General 5,777 6,717 6,750 Category 2008 2009 2010 Amount of Waste Generated Designated 740 840 2,877 Amount Generated 1,309 1,597 1,688 Total 6,517 7,557 9,627 Coal Ash Amount Recycled 913 891 971 Amount of Waste Generated per GWh (Tons/GWh) 0.16 0.17 0.18 Rate Recycled(%) 69.7 55.8 57.5 Amount of Waste Recycled 2,425 3,088 4,584 Desulfurization Amount Generated 263 357 386 Amount of Waste Treated Automatically or through Consignment 4,092 4,471 5,043 Plaster Amount Recycled 274 357 327 Noise Pollution and Soil As measures to control the noise pollution under the level of regulated standards, various machinery are built indoors to deal with the noise from the power plants and noise reduction machines and soundproof walls have been installed and is in operation. Also, to prevent soil pollution due to oil leakage from power generation fuels, protective walls are installed to contain the oil storage tanks and regular measurement of contamination rates prevents exposure of soil to the oil storage tank, resulting in zero cases of oil leakage. Results of Noise Pollution Measurements | Unit : dB(A) | Category Region Regulated 2008 2009 2010 Category Region Regulated 2008 2009 2010 rate rate Boryeong Industrial 50 36 37 37 Seocheon Industrial 50 36 34 37 Incheon Industrial 50 40 42 43 Jeju Industrial 50 32 35 37 Seoul Green Belt 50 48 48 48 Results of Inspections of Soil Contamination Date of Inspection Inspected Results of Category Subject of Inspection Inspecting Agency Inspection location points criteria Inspection Boryeong Thermal Diesel storage tank unit 4 08-16-2010 10 worksites TPH* Optimal Natural Environment Research Institute Incheon Thermal Heavy Oil and diesel tank unit 9 11-18-2010 2 worksites TPH* Optimal Korea Soil Environmental Research Center Seoul Thermal Diesel tank unit 1 09-29-2007 1 worksites TPH* Optimal Korea NDE Seocheon Thermal Heavy Oil and diesel tank unit 6 11-29-2010 16 worksites TPH* Optimal Natural Environment Research Institute Jeju Thermal Heavy Oil and diesel tank unit 11 Subject to exemption of inspection *Total Petroleum Hydro Carbon: total amount of hydrocarbons found in crude oil Environment Preservation Activities Assessment of Impact on the Environment | To minimize the environmental impact by construction and operation of power plants, an environmental impact assessment is carried out according to Article 25 of the Environmental Impact Assessment Act. Consultation results from the assessment have been implemented, and results of the assessment and implementation are reported annually to the related government agency. The assessment provides the results on the biodiversity and the locations, capacity and detailed results of habitats according to the requirements of the information disclosure system. Additionally, it shows that no species of animal or plant are threatened to extinction due to the influence of the business activities of KOMIPO. 36 Company Overview Highlights 2010 Governance Structure & Sustainable Management Human Rights & Labor Green Management Fair Business Customers Participation & Development of the Local Community Innovation & Creation Appendix Current Status of Environmental Impact Assessments Research Time Period of Environmental Category Research Agency Researched Criteria Cycle Problems Impact Assessment Boryeong Thermal Seoyeong Land and marine wildlife, Marine water and sediment quality, Mar. 2005 ~ Dec. 2013 Once every quarter Unit 7 & 8 Engineering co.,ltd Air quality, Water quality, Noise pollution·vibration Incheon Combined Green Marine wildlife, Marine water quality, Air quality semi-annual Unit 1 Apr. 2003 ~ Jun. 2010 Unit 1 Environment co.,ltd Marine sediments, Marine physics Once every year None Incheon Combined Green Land and marine wildlife, Marine water and sediments quality, Air quality, Geological Jun. 2007~ Dec. 2012 Once every quarter Unit 2 & 3 Environment co.,ltd terrain, Noise pollution, Soil, Environmentally friendly circulation of resources Jeju Internal Eco-system of marine and land, Noise pollution·vibration, semi-annual Jeju Jun. 2004 ~ Jun. 2010 (completion of combustion unit 1) Sinsung E&C co.,ltd Internal Combustion Marine water quality, Air quality, Exploration by satellite Combustion Once every year Jun. 2009~Jun. 2014(internal combustion unit 2) *Period of Environmental Impact Assessment: 5 years from completion of construction The environmental impact assessment in every quarter and semi-annually include the inspection of ecosystem for marine and land animals as well as plants. This allows KOMIPO examine not only the influence of the construction and operation of its power plants on the local economy and stakeholders, but also its influence on species of marine and land plants and animals. Such data provides a valuable foundation for an effective control of environmental impact factors such as air, water, noise and vibration pollution in the event of construction and operation of power plants. Love the Environment Activities | As a practice of environmental care, an array of environmental preservation programs are carried out, such as Caring for 1 river (mountain, ocean) per 1 company, feeding wild animals, and creating habitats for wild birds, as activities to preserve the eco-system. Also, Love the Environment Essay Contests, 1 day environment classes, and promotion of environment preservation awareness events take place for residents of the local community and visitors on field trip to the power plant. External Evaluation To leap forward as the ECO Global Top 10 in the Energy Utility Industry by 2015, a mid-long term master plan (Certification/Awards) (ECO-2015) has been established and implemented with detailed strategies. Following the master plan, Boryeong Thermal and Boryeong municipality and Incheon Thermal and Incheon municipality have concluded voluntary environmental management agreements, to establish and follow more strict standards than the national environmental standards as self-initiated efforts for reduction of environmental contamination. Also, through active efforts made by each worksite for environment enhancement, KOMIPO has accomplished the outstanding achievement of consecutive nomination for a green company throughout all of its worksites. Moreover, in addition to the pre-existing environmental management system, construction of a green management system including greenhouse gases, energy, natural resources, social responsibility in the field of the environment and performance management systems has received external authentication. KOMIPO's achievement in environmental management has been recognized by external environmental agencies through nomination for a variety Republic of Korea Green Management Grand Prize of environment related awards. External Certification& Awards Name of Renewal Effective Category Notes Power Plant Date Date Demonstrated certification of Green Management System (First certification) Headquarters and all worksites 07-10-2011 07-09-2013 Korea Standards Association Certification of ISO 14001 Headquarters and all worksites 09-07-2004 09-06-2013 Korea Standards Association Boryeong Thermal 04-14-2010 04-19-2015 First awarded in Feb. 09, 2007/2nd Consecutive Nomination Incheon Thermal 11-22-2007 11-21-2012 First awarded in Feb. 05, 1996/5th Consecutive Nomination Designation as a Green Company Seoul Thermal 03-30-2011 03-29-2016 First awarded in Apr. 21, 2007/3rd Consecutive Nomination Seocheon Thermal 02-08-2011 02-07-2016 First awarded in Jan.15, 2008/2nd Consecutive Nomination Jeju Thermal 04-01-2006 03-31-2011 First awarded in Mar. 21, 2003/2nd Consecutive Nomination Awarded by the Minister of Environment at the outstanding Jeju Thermal 07-02-2009 Environmentally Friendly Companies Council environmentally friendly corporation case presentation seminar Grand Prize for Leading Company for Circulation of Resources* Seocheon Thermal 09-05-2009 Ministry of the Environment Award of Excellence by Seoul City on the 15th World Environment Day Seoul Thermal 06-08-2010 Seoul City Designated by the municipal leader of Jeju Special Self-Governing Province Jeju Thermal 12-20-2010 Jeju Special Self-Governing Province as a worksite of excellence for environmentally friendly management Minister of the Environment Award for Clean SYS excellence in worksite Boryeong Thermal 11-04-2010 11-03-2012 Ministry of the Environment management *Maximization of recycling by using coal ash as an energy resource KOMIPO Sustainability Report 2011 37 Responding to the Treaty for Climate Change With the Kyoto Protocol in February 16th, 2005 coming into effect, there will be full-fledged greenhouse gas reduction activities by industrialized countries. To begin its commitment starting 2013, Korean government is currently implementing comprehensive countermeasures such as operation of a countermeasure committee for the treaty on climate change, establishment of greenhouse gas emission rate statistics and greenhouse gas reduction research and development. In tune with government policies, KOMIPO has taken the initiative to reduce greenhouse gases by establishing greenhouse gas emission statistics for its power generation facilities. Research and development have also been carried out to secure carbon reduction technologies and renewable energy businesses such as wind power, small hydro power and fuel cells. Current Status of Greenhouse Gas Total domestic emission of greenhouse gases in the field of energy and industrial processes in 2008 recorded Emissions approximately 590 million tons, increasing approximately 1.6% from the previous year. Such data reflects a relative slowing down in the increase rate, with a 4.5% average yearly increase since 1990, but only 2.9% increase from the previous year, resulting from restrictions of energy consumption caused by low national economic growth and rises in oil prices due to stagnation in the economy. Power Generation (reconversion) accounts for approximately 34% (as of 2008) of total domestic greenhouse gas emission rates, with 2 hundred million tons of emissions. CO₂ Emissions in the Domestic Energy Industry | Unit : Million tCO2e | Energy Business Processes 31.8 585.9 18.2 491.0 418.1 264.8 528.4 Reconversion 38.8% Industrial 31.8% 10.3 Transportation 18.2% 38.8 Family industries 10.3% 0.8 Public miscellaneous 0.8% 1990 1995 2000 2008 Category Amount of Emissions (million tCO2e) Market Share(%) Increase from the Previous Year (%) Reconversion 201.1 38.8 5.9 Industrial 165.0 31.8 2.7 Transportation 94.6 18.2 ▲ 4.2 Family Industries 53.5 10.3 ▲ 1.8 Public Miscellaneous 4.2 0.8 ▲ 6.3 Total 518.4 100 2.0 KOMIPO 30.6 5.9 The approximately 15% increase of CO2 emissions due to increases in the amount of power generated can be seen as a relatively slow increase, considering the 22% increase in the amount of energy generated and 6.1% decrease in emission rates per GWh from the previous year. This has resulted from increase in use of eco-friendly fuels and operation of renewable energy power generation facilities such as Yangyang wind power, Boryeong small Hydro and Boryeong and Seocheon Solar PV. Diverse renewable energy businesses, such as offshore wind energy, tidal energy, fuel cells and organic resource derived fuels, combustion of sewage sludge are being developed. Once these projects yield tangible results, KOMIPO will lead low carbon green growth by significantly reducing emission rates per GWh and promising reductions in total emission rates of greenhouse gases. Current Status of Annual CO₂ Emissions by KOMIPO Category 2008 2009 2010 Rate of Increase Compared to 2009(%) Amount of Power Generated (GWh) 41,756 45,745 55,724 21.8 Amount of CO2 Emissions (thousand tCO2) 30,225 33,163 38,036 14.7 Amount of Emissions per (tCO2/GWh) 0.739 0.737 0.692 ▲ 6.1 38 Company Overview Highlights 2010 Governance Structure & Sustainable Management Human Rights & Labor Green Management Fair Business Customers Participation & Development of the Local Community Innovation & Creation Appendix Mid-Long Term Promotion KOMIPO practices reductions in greenhouse gas emissions by actively participating in the “low carbon green Strategies to Respond to UNFCCC growth policy”, the new paradigm for national development, and has established a “Master Plan for Responding to Treaties for Climate Change Climate Change” in August 2010, designating 3 major promotion strategies and 12 core tasks to respond to climate change. Mission Realization of an Advance Power Generating Company Leading Low Carbon and Green Growth Goal 10% Reduction of Greenhouse Gas Emissions per KRW (compared to BAU by 2020) Expansion of renewable energy use domestically and abroad, and compliance with the degree of RPS Strategy Construction of a Carbon Reduction of Greenhouse Gases Responding to Climate Change Management System Promotion Plan Establishment and Operation of greenhouse Strategic response to Renewable Application and securing of new gas reduction goals Energy RPS technologies to respond to climate changes Construction of a greenhouse gas inventory Establishment of plans and operation of Development of green energy as new system performance enhancement engines of growth Expansion of registered CDM projects Operation of pilot project of Development and application of through renewable energy businesses target management systems throughout all technologies on greenhouse gas reduction Optimal management of registered amount worksites of Carbon Emission Rights Developing climate change experts and the pool of human resources Building external partnerships to respond to climate changes Promotion Performance of Policies Power generation business being a major source of greenhouse gas emissions, achieving greenhouse gas and Responding to Climate change air pollution reduction are of critical importance. The following shows the up-to-date achievements on the 3 major promotion strategies in detail. Promotion Performance of Responding to Climate Change Policy Promoted Tasks Accomplishments Construction of a greenhouse gas inventory system in tune with ERP Establishment of Foundation for a Carbon Establishment of a mid-long term climate change master plan Management System to Respond to Climate Change Construction of an environmental performance evaluation and comprehensive environmental system Reduction of 760 thousand tons per year through enhancing efficiency by adopting the Boryeong Unit 1 & 2 high efficiency turbine Enhancement of Energy Efficiency and Development Commercialization and technological development of high efficiency of Greenhouse Gas Reduction Technologies mass scale ultra pressure coal-fired power plant Development of 144 MW of renewable energy facilities such as Boryeong Hydro Power, Yangyang Wind Power Registered performance of CDM project_ annual reduction of 31,955 tons of CO2 Registration in International CDM Projects and through businesses including Gangwon Wind Power, Yangyang Wind Power Domestic Greenhouse Gas Reduction Businesses Registered performance of domestic greenhouse gas reduction businesses_ annual reduction of 5,768 tons of CO2 including Jeju power plant Gangwon Wind Power Complex Seocheon Thermal Solar PV KOMIPO Sustainability Report 2011 39 A Companion with Fairness and Transparency Fair Business Vision | Mutual Growth with small and medium-sized firms Strategy | Fostering small and medium sized businesses as a small giant, Becoming a leading company of ethical management Issue | Fair trading with partner cooperating companies, Support for win-win cooperation, Transparent management Performances | KOMIPO-BEST Win-win cooperation company system Plan | Promotion of mutual growth through on-going win-win cooperation, Carrying out diverse ethical realization programs Management Team | Shared Growth Team, Strategy & Planning Team Level of Ethical Awareness Level of Integrity Level of SMEs’ Satisfaction 89.7 90.38 85 9.86 9.89 0.68points 0.03points 68 17% Increase from the Increase from the Previous Year Increase from the Previous Year Previous Year 2009 2010 (Points) 2009 2010 (Points) 2009 2010 (%) Evaluation on Power Generating Companies by KEPCO with research agencies Total_ 10points Company Overview Highlights 2010 Governance Structure & Sustainable Management Human Rights & Labor Green Management Promotion Strategies and Fair Business Customers Participation & Development of the Local Community Innovation & Creation Appendix Organizations for Mutual Growth Promotion Strategies for As a public enterprise, KOMIPO leads the win-win growth policy for sustainable development for the national Mutual Growth economy and enhances the competitiveness of the power generation industry with small and middle sized companies. The power generation company promotes business partners to be a small giant with the best technology competitiveness and the strong survival techniques in order to supply stable electricity and to be over the competition in and outside countries along with small and middle size companies. Mission KOMIPO Developing through Mutual Growth with Small and Medium Sized Businesses Goal Strengthening Realization of Mutual Growth 기후변화 Securing Competence in Power Generating Capacity of SMEs within the Entire Company 대응역량 강화 Industries Overseas Strategy Expansion of Awareness on Establishment of Fair Trade Enhancement of Technology Pioneering Markets Abroad Mutual Growth Regulations and Productivity Promotion Plan Reflecting Management Fair Trade Regulations Enhancement of Support for Export Strategies Expansion of Joint Technological Competitiveness Road Shows Providing Management Purchase of Products Activation of Technology Brand Globalization Information Protection of SMEs Transfer Enhancing Export Support for Innovative Technology Reinforcing HR and Competitiveness Management Education Organizations Promoting As the head of the Committee for Mutual Growth, the CEO is the final decision maker in mutual growth policy. Mutual Growth Shared Growth Team which is regular team composed of 7 members including team director carries out mutual growth policies for SMEs such as product purchase, business support and R&D. CEOs from SMEs and professors participate in the Committee for Mutual Growth as advisors to help set the course for mutual growth policies and support projects. Headquarter Worksites Head of the Committee for Mutual Growth (CEO) Head of the Committee for Mutual Growth at each Worksite (Head of Worksites) Committee Members: Vice Presidents at the headquarter, External Experts at worksites (Professors, Government Officials), CEOs from SMEs Committee Members : All General Managers at worksites *Auditor: Shared Growth Team Director Auditor: General Manager of a group for win-win cooperation. Shared Growth Team Purchase Support Manager Organization Supporting Small and Medium Size Companies and Expansion of Functions General Support Win-win Cooperation Cooperation & Mutual Growth 2003 2005 2006-2009 2010 and onwards · First ever establishment of this type of · Integration of research and development · Expansion in support for small and medium size companies Organization organization by a power generating company · Establishment of shared growth team · Purchase presentation at worksites · Research and development on conditional purchase products · Concentrated support for markets abroad Function · Support for maintenance of worn-down · Innovative management and fair trade facilities · Carrying out business for supporting exports · Website · Integration system for mid-term support · Support for exports specialization Support System · Bidding information system · Management system for affiliates · Establishment of a management system · Development of supporting programs · Fostering of KOMIPO-BEST companies · Mutual growth agreements KOMIPO Sustainability Report 2011 41 Mutual Growth Support System To nurture small and medium businesses, progressive support projects have been set, such as support for management infrastructure, technology commercialization, export industrialization and reinforcement of selfsustainability. Analysis on the result of the support and surveys are re-reflected in the support plans. Also, by designating business partners of excellence as KOMIPO-BEST win-win cooperation businesses, long-term concentrated fostering is established, while a small and medium enterprise management system is operated for support and communication. Realization of such policies is spearheaded by conclusion of mutual growth agreements with small and medium size companies. Mutual Growth by Promoting SME Sharing Performance Building a Foundation Technology Export Reinforcement of Surveys and for Independence Commercialization Industrialization Self-Productivity Ongoing Review Management Technology Development Expansion of Purchase HR and Finance Infrastructure and Markets Management Innovation Cooperation R&D Purchase Target System Fostering Professional Management Supervision Developing Onsite Exploring Domestic and Talent Management System Technologies International Markets Power Energy Loans Development of Conditional Sharing Performance Expansion of Prepayments Purchase KOMIPO-BEST Win-Win KOMIPO-BEST is a program nurturing total 50 partner companies of excellence with selective and concentrated Cooperation System supports to have strong competencies from 2008 to 2017. In 2008, ten companies were designated as the first generation of the program with USD 2.5 million of management finance support, USD 31.5 million of product purchases. This achieved an increase of USD 45.1 million and 45% in sales, creating 12,000 jobs on the year, enhanced management capabilities and diversified profit structure. In 2010, another 10 companies were designated as the second generation of the program, this time focusing on concentrated support for joint R&D, joint adventure of business abroad, exports and information-orientation. Also, by hosting a Future Management Forum each year, KOMIPO negotiates the course of its mutual growth with small and medium sized businesses. KOMIPO-BEST Win-Win Cooperation Operation First Generation Second Generation 1 NANO Co., Ltd 6 Samhyeon CNS Co., Ltd 1 Daeyoung C&E Co., Ltd 6 Shinheung Co., Ltd 2 Daeyang Rollent Co., Ltd 7 Hanjin Engineering Co.,Ltd. 2 DOWON Tech Co., Ltd 7 Jeil TNI Co., Ltd 3 Se Woon T&S Co., Ltd 8 Itechnet Co., Ltd. 3 Morgan Korea Ltd 8 CW-Hydro Co., Ltd 4 Sam Young Fil-tech Co., Ltd 9 KGCRANES Co., Ltd 4 B&F Technology Inc. 9 Turbolink Co., Ltd 5 EnTech Engineering, Inc., 10 Sehwa Ens Tech Co., Ltd 5 SUNG IL Co., Ltd (SIM) 10 Turbopowertech Co., Ltd Small and Medium-Sized ‘Management systems for support SMEs and SMEs support website’ are operated to systematically support Company Support Project System R&D, management innovation and expansion of markets, providing information and resolve difficulties. Affiliate Management System Integrated SME Support System SME Support (http://crm.komipo.co.kr:7060/emInApp/) (http://58.227.22.120/servlet/mainSvl) (www.komipo.co.kr/JUNGSO) Registration and maintenance of power Purchase of SME products, sharing and Providing information for support projects, generating facilities equipment and management of R&D information. notifications, bidding information, registration maintenance firms of complaints, collecting opinions etc In the aim of increasing mutual trust and continuing cooperative relationships with SMEs, KOMIPO has concluded various agreements and fulfilled these commitments. Agreements have been concluded to carry 동반성장 협약 out support projects and a Win-Win cooperation supporter agreement has been finalized to dispatch a power generation expert to provide management consulting. Also, for mutual growth through fair trade with affiliates, KOMIPO has concluded fair trade agreements and has hosted a win-win cooperation advancement competition Win-win Cooperation Business Agreement Ceremony to designate and support 280 companies in their exports. 42 Company Overview Highlights 2010 Governance Structure & Sustainable Management Human Rights & Labor Green Management Promotion Activities Fair Business Customers Participation & Development of the Local Community Innovation & Creation Appendix for Mutual Growth Support for Affiliates As the first among the domestic power generation companies, KOMIPO has started the SMEs support program in Technology Development with the purpose of strengthening SMEs technology innovation and capacities since 2003. The related fields has and Management Innovation been various from R&D to localized joint technology development, establishment of ISO 14000 ,ISO 9000 and ERP, technology exchange for international standard certification and win-win cooperation workshops etc. KOMIPO has spent USD 35.1 million so far for these support programs for management innovation. Also, KOMIPO has a plan to support USD 70.2 million additionally linked with its management strategies for management innovation and technology development and so on by 2020. Support Performance of 2001-2010 | Unit : USD million | 125 Support for 70 Joint Technology Development Management Innovation 100 75 USD 28.6 million USD 6.4 million 50 35 25 Total USD 35 million 0 2010 (Total) 2020 (Total) Business Presentations of By giving chances to SMEs having a 1:1 consulting meeting with KOMIPO purchasing support manager regarding Outstanding SMEs Products their newly developed technology products, KOMIPO opens opportunities to have a contract with SMEs. Total 11 purchasing support managers at the headquarter and worksites are designated for technology development, sales information, support projects, construction information, problems at the plants and help SME to broaden markets. Performance of Purchase Consultations in 2010 Date Participating Companies Consultation Performance Subject Worksite 13 ~ 30. Apr 113 companies USD 3.7 million Boryeong, Incheon, Seoul, 31. Aug ~ 2. Sep 66 companies USD 2.3 million Seocheon, Jeju Thermal Consultation Seminars for Purchase of SME Products Purchase of SME Products Purchases from SMEs have recorded a rate of over 70% each year, exceeding the legal requirements of 50% and total USD 1,054 million of products have been purchased in the past ten years. Each year, KOMIPO also exceeds the legal requirement of 10% for technology development products purchase. KOMIPO aims to purchase USD 1,756 million of SME products by 2020, providing opportunities to heighten their self-sustainability. Purchase Performance of SME Products Purchase of Developed Technology Products | Unit : USD million | | Unit : USD million | Category 2008 2009 2010 Total Category 2008 2009 2010 Total Total Purchased Cost 122.5 206.4 140.7 469.6 SME Products 41.4 94.1 45.2 180.7 SME Products 80.9 156.3 99.7 336.9 R&D Products 4.1 15.1 6.1 25.4 Rate of Purchase (%) 66.1 75.7 71 71.74 Purchase Ratio (%) 9.9 16.0 13.5 14.0 Purchase of SME Products | Unit : USD million | 1,756 ·Outstanding SMEs Products (NEP, NET, GS, certification of performance, etc) ·Successful Products of Joint Research 1,054 (designated development products) ·Products from Companies with Female Leaders, Products from Social Enterprises, etc 2010 (Total) 2020 (Total) KOMIPO Sustainability Report 2011 43 Mutual Growth Promotion Activities Support for SMEs to Expand To help small and medium sized companies to expand their business into international markets, KOMIPO into the International Market supports participations in international trade fairs. Also by jointly participating with SMEs in promising export markets abroad, KOMIPO has been establishing social networks with electricity authorities and businesses including international trade fairs, registration as an overseas vendor and consultation with buyers. No. of Applicants Consultation No. of Applicants Consultation Exhibitions · Roadshows (companies) Performance Exhibitions · Roadshows (companies) Performance (USD million) (USD million) SWEET2010 8 105 Trade Delegation 17 208 Smart Grid EXPO 45 642 Far East Roadshow 12 8 SIEF* 40 2 Middle East Roadshow 12 84 Middle East Roadshow 15 239 US Exhibition 21 200 Power-GEN India 20 97 Total 190 1,585 *SIEF:Seoul International Electric Fair Africa Exports Financial Road Show Export Road Show Consultation Middle East Financial Export Road Show Joint Advancement into the KOMIPO had entered Lebanon Combined-cycle Plant O&M project with 14 SMEs and localized 350 components. International Market As a result, sales of participating SMEs’ increased by USD 26 million and KOMIPO was able to successfully reduce costs by USD 1.7 million. In the future, KOMIPO plans to once again involve SMEs in the Thermal Power Generation Project in Indonesia. Also, it plans to heighten the synergy effect on growth by jointly advancing with SMEs into power plant construction, O&M projects in approximately 10 countries abroad. Performance of Joint Advancement into International Markets in Tune with Management Strategy KOMIPO Management Joint Advancement into International Markets Joint Localization Strategy Success in the Lebanon Project Diversification in 14 firms Including Localization of Approximately 350 Parts, International Markets Shinheung Co., Ltd Cooperation in Operation and Maintenance KOMIPO | Cost Reduction by SME | Sales Increase by USD 1.7 million, USD 26 million, Fostering Outstanding Advancement Abroad Affiliates by 14 Companies Future Plans to Advance Abroad KOMIPO Projects Abroad Expansion of Joint Advancement in Projects Abroad Sales Goal Expansion from 2,450 MW to 15,000 MW 15,000MW USD 553 million Joint Advancement Abroad (2,450MW) 2,450MW USD 25.3 million Joint Advancement in the Indonesia Thermal Power Project Construction of the Cirebon Thermal Power Plant (660MW) O&M of the Tanjung Jati Thermal Power Plant (1,320MW) 2011 2020 / Goal 2011 2020 / Goal 44 Company Overview Highlights 2010 Governance Structure & Sustainable Management Human Rights & Labor Green Management SME Support Programs Fair Business Customers Participation & Development of the Local Community Innovation & Creation Appendix KOMIPO promotes mutual growth through cooperation and support in not only development of technology and purchase of products of SMEs but also in all fields from human resources to management. Also, KOMIPO shares successful reductions in production costs of items procured by the company with SMEs, and promotes joint advancement with SMEs in existing projects in the overseas market, in its efforts to grow together in the global arena. Support for Project Support for SME Cooperation R&D Project Support for Onsite Technology Technological Development 01 Financial Support for localization of 02 Development equipment and development of new Joint Technology development on products on-site problems Support_ within 75% of development Support_ Support for technology costs (up to USD 439,000 maximum) , development and prototype technology, 3 years of purchase guarantee once and covering all development costs selected as a designated product Project Support for Development of New Project Support for Technology Development 03 Products Guaranteed for Purchase 04 through Joint Private Supported by the Small and Medium and Governmental Investment Business Administration, guaranteed Joint support of Small and Medium purchase for a fixed period of Business Administration and KOMIPO successfully developed products and guaranteed purchase for a fixed time Support_ Up to 75% of Development by KOMIPO in the event of successful costs (up to USD 439,000 maximum, development development term of 2 years) Support_ Within 75% of development costs (up to USD 87,000, development term of 3 years) Project Support for Deposit System of Project Support Business to Share Profits Project Relocation of Possessed Technology 05 Technology Protection 06 Sharing of profits by 50:50 for the 07 Commercialization of manufactured Deposit of core SME technology for a amount of production costs saved products by relocating the non-exclusive set period to protect technology and when reduction of production costs license of technologies possessed enhance SMEs competitiveness. is achieved from items procured by (property rights etc) of KOMIPO KOMIPO Support_ possessed technologies Support_ Conclusion of agreement with participating companies and agencies Support_ Support to reduce production relocated at a cost and support for and KOMIPO, and supporting of related costs for partner companies through technology costs technology and management innovation Support for Project Prioritized Purchase of Products Project Designation and Prioritized Purchase Project Support to Enter Products in Expansion of 01 Certified as New Technologies 02 of Selected Development Products 03 Domestic and International Markets Exhibitions Over 20% of purchase costs for First ever domestically produced mandatorily purchased from Products products or localized products of Support for costs to exhibit products in certified as New Technologies is technology adopted from abroad, domestic and international exhibitions mandatorily purchased each year industrial property rights or products and export consultation Support_ Official notice of prioritized certified as new technology are Support_ Up to USD 4,390 for domestic purchase sent to all worksites, support for designated as selected development exhibitions and USD 8,780 for overseas product advertisement products ones. Support_ Prioritized purchase for 3 years Project Support For Global Marketing 04 Sector Project Profile Type of support Registration of overseas vendors Support for discovering ordering sites, agency for application registration Up to 75% (Maximum USD 4,390) Overseas citizens' network Support for exports through market research by local consulting company Up to 75% (Maximum USD 8,780) Global branding Support for brand consulting and development of brand marketing Up to 75% (Maximum USD 8,780) Online marketing Register as a priority in search engines and organization of homepage Up to 75% (Maximum USD 4,390) Manufacturing of overseas Support for English homepage and manufacturing of English promotion promotion materials materials Up to 75% (Maximum USD 2,630) Project Dispatching Delegations to Project Overview Presentation for Project Operation of a Purchase Support 05 Pioneer 06 Outstanding SME Products 07 Management System Open class for SMEs with outstanding Hosting of overview presentation and Through unification of managing office products to participate in export consultation with purchase management at the headquarters and worksites, consultations or product presentations division by touring worksites with NEP enhancement of efficiency in company at foreign countries with high prospects certified or outstanding SME products support duties for exports Support_ Presentation of Outstanding Support_ consultation for problems Support_ Invitation costs for buyers, SME products, providing 1:1 consultation of SMEs and support of activities to rental costs for export consultations, opportunities with purchase division promote purchase of outstanding promotion costs etc directors at all power plants products KOMIPO Sustainability Report 2011 45 SME Support Programs Support for Management Innovation Project Designation and Concentrated Project Support for Establishment of an 01 Support for KOMIPO-BEST Win-win 02 Informatization Cooperation Company Construction of information Designation of 10 outstanding SMEs management systems such as ERP, on alternate years until 2017 to setting up and support of unit business award certificates of recognition and system concentrate support, and foster as a Support_ Up to 75% of establishment small giant. costs (Maximum USD 26,300) Support_ Visit partner companies to supervise technology and provide information, prioritize supported businesses Project Support for Certification of New Project Support for Establishment of an 03 Technologies and Acquisition of 04 Environmental Management System Industrial Property Rights Support for establishment of an Support for the construction of environmental management system information management systems such including ISO and acquisition of as ERP, and of unit business systems environmental certification marks Support_ Up to 75% of certification Support_ Up to 75% of certification costs (Maximum USD 4,390) costs (Maximum USD 4,390) Project Support for Establishment of Quality Project Clean Work Place Support Project Project Support for Acquisition 05 Certification and Safe Management 06 Improvement in operation facilities and 07 of International Standard Support for quality related activities working environments of SMEs suffering Certifications such as acquisition of quality and from deficient working or manufacturing Support for costs for certification safety related certification such as environments to enhance productivity under international standards such ISO and KOSHA, and standardization and improve working conditions as CE of Europe and NRTL of the US, of work duties to enhance quality and Support_ Up to 75% of costs for Safety consulting for acquiring certification, productivity of SME products facilities, environment improvement and supervision fee and related costs, to Support_ Up to 75% of certification facilities, operation enhancement build a foundation for SMEs in markets costs (Maximum USD 4,390) facilities (Maximum USD 8,780) abroad. Support_ Up to 75% of acquisition costs (Maximum USD 6,146) Project Onsite Management by KOMIPO CEO Project SME Win-Win Cooperation Project Discovering and Rewarding Outstanding 08 Onsite visits by KOMIPO CEO to 09 Workshop 10 Cases of Win-Win Cooperation partner companies to consult win-win Presentation of government policy and Promotion of mutual growth by cooperation and mutual growth outstanding case examples, providing discovering outstanding examples measures, and to search for practical information on KOMIPO construction and of win-win cooperation of SMEs and support measures projects abroad KOMIPO Support_ Introduction of KOMIPO Support_ all costs of interaction of Support_ Financial support for support policy and receiving problems technology and workshop participation advertisement and necessities for and complaints of SMEs outstanding partners, awarding trophies of gratitude Support for Human Resources and Finance Project Support for Win-win Cooperation Project Support to Foster Technological 01 Supporters HR 02 Experts in Small and Medium Private Passing down expert technology of Maintenance Companies power generating facilities possessed Education on power generation for by quality masters hands and retired small scale maintenance companies employees of KOMIPO and support for acquisition of power Support_ Visits by quality mater hands generation maintenance licenses to partners, providing information Support_ Partial support of Power and technology consulting, retired Learning Institute training costs employee may reside at companies for management consulting (50% of total income, support of 1,317 USD per month) Project Customized SME Technology Project Power Energy Loan Project Public Purchase Loans 03 Education Support Projects 04 Providing loans to SMEs based on digital 05 Loaning production costs based Carrying out customized technology and contracts on contracts with SMEs that have quality education for SME employees Support_ loans of up to 80% of down concluded delivery contracts Support_ free education support payments Support_ Loans of up to 80% of down payments 46 Company Overview Highlights 2010 Governance Structure & Sustainable Management Human Rights & Labor Green Management Promoting Transparent Fair Business Customers Participation & Development of the Local Community Innovation & Creation Appendix Contracts For the promotion of sound contract processes, KOMIPO has consistently strived to secure transparency in the process of signing contracts, expanding operation of online bidding for customer satisfaction and minimizing the number of private contracts, and has speedily revised and managed the internal contract regulations to comply with its transfer into a market-oriented public company. Reducing Private Contracts and Private contracts are operated on a exceedingly limited scale, and include various private contracts for SMEs, Increasing Online Purchases purchases of New Excellent Products, contracts for the routine maintenance of generation facilities signed with Korea Electric Power KPS(Korea Plant Service) and agreement for software develop and manufacture by Korea Electric Power Data Network. KOMIPO has maintained a trend of progressively reducing the proportion of its private contracts each year, and consistently strives to maintain the rate of electronic bidding above 96~98% and to reduce the rate of private contracts to enhance the transparency and fairness of its contracts. Current Status of Concluded Contracts Category Total Contracts Electronic Bidding Private Contracts Amount(USD million) No. of Contracts Amount(USD million) No. of Contracts Amount(USD million) No. of Contracts 2008 509.7 1,250 249.5 1,210(96.8%) 207.5 196 (15.7 %) 2009 301.3 1,530 288.6 1,481 (96.8%) 46 150 (9.8%) 2010 361.5 1,369 164.8 1,336 (97.6%) 34.9 139 (10.2%) Exempting contracts from international bidding or negotiations from the total number of contracts Revision of Contract Credibility of contracts has been enhanced by alleviating bidding participation requirements and by lowering entry Regulations to Secure Fairness barriers by actively reflecting the revised content of accounting regulations of 「Screening standards」 and Public Procurement Service 「Product Purchase Screening Standards」; by abolishing the Joint guarantor system for public enterprise; by lowering the ratio of deposits; and by expanding those subject to exemption of contract deposits. Category Subject To Improvement Improved Performance Lowering barriers and bidding participation qualifications by 70 points → 45 points for more than USD 0.88 million downscaling allotted points for fulfillment capabilities 50 points → 30 points for less than USD 0.88 million Quality Screening Standards for Evaluation of the state of management for product purchase Financial Ratio Analysis → Credibility Ratings Human Resources Up scaling of comprehensive average points for final Over 75 points → Over 85 points and Product successful bidders Purchase Fixed Prices → Modified according to changes Purchase of equipment on condition of installation in prices Elimination of the Joint guarantor system for public Contract 20%→ 15% of contract payment enterprise and downscaling of the contract deposit rate Regulations Expansion of those subject to exemption of contract deposit Contract Payment: USD 26,300 → USD 43,900 System to Ensure Integrity Pact KOMIPO operates a Integrity Pact System to realize its promise to abolish any corrupt acts that may occur in the contract process such as price-fixing or acceptance of bribery or red-carpet treatment. KOMIPO requires companies to mandatorily submit a Pledge of Integrity Performance for the contract when applying for bidding and clearly states the content of the contract clause that ‘annulment of the contract due to violation of the Integrity Pact' when submitting the Integrity Pact at the time of concluding the contract, thus striving for joint compliance with partner companies and itself to jointly enhance credibility of fulfilling contracts and heighten transparency. Also to stabilize Integrity Pact, integrity surveys are carried out each year to evaluate prevention of bribes or red-carpet treatment, standards and procedures of work duties, fairness of business processes and easiness in filing formal complaints. Integrity Rating | Unit : points | 2010 9.89 0.03 2009 9.86 KOMIPO Sustainability Report 2011 47 Realization of Transparency Through Ethical Management KOMIPO has found hope for sustainable management through ethical management. As the most basic means of communication with customers, stakeholders and our society, ethical management will pave the way to a happier future. Demonstration of Integrity and CEO Nam In-suk took the pledge of integrity management in 2010, and has demonstrated ethical leadership Ethical Leadership by the CEO by carrying out the KOMIPO's integrity obligation conformity pledge for all high-level employees. Also, by participating in the ethical management SM Forum CEO Pledge for 7 consecutive years since 2005, he has led the way in corporate social responsibility and its realization. Employee Government Partners Community Active Engagement in Ethical Compliance with Government Fair and Transparent Work Transparent Disclosure of Leadership by the Management Guidelines Fulfillment Management Information Participation in Realization of Active Fulfillment of Corporate Establishing Trust through Expansion of Support for Community Ethics by All Workers Social Responsibility as a Public Win-win Cooperation Promotion of Low Carbon Green Enterprise Management Ethical Management Ethical realization activities have unfolded through operation of a managing office for promotion of ethical Organizations management throughout the company, construction of a systematic infrastructure, education and promotion of ethical management, and expansion to external agencies. Both preemptive measures and diagnosis, and followup measures and activities are carried out regarding unethical acts. In particular a subcommittee for ethical management has been established within the Board of Directors to rigorously carry out the function of ethical management strategy development and advisory roles for main policies, and for the securing of promotion and implementation of sustainable ethical management throughout the company. Board of Directors CEO Executive Vice President of Secretariat for Ethical Management Final Decision-making Management Chief Ethical The Secretary–general: Vice president at planning Organization Management Officer Manager of Ethical Management Ethic Realization Leaders Department Responsible Team: Strategy Planning Team Leaders in Offices at Sub-committee for Ethical Auditor Auditing Office Ethical Secretariat at Offices of each Worksites Worksites (total 13 leaders) Management Decision Making on Supervision of Fulfillment of Manager of Ethical Regulation General Managers in Charge and Role of Ethical Management Advisor for Main Policies Anti-corruption Activities Planning and Auditing Realization Guide Anti-corruption Policy Department Responsible Team: Competent team, Planning and Auditing Team Reconstruction of After passing its ethical code in 2003, fulfillment of ethical standards was enhanced through the initiation of the Ethical Standards company regulation code in 2005 and the regular maintenance and supplementation of the system, as a channel to propose guidelines for action and to reflect opinions of employees. In 2010, the procedure for notification standards of external lectures and meetings was established, and standards were elaborated to reflect the recommendations of the Anti-corruption and Civil Right Commission on code of conduct, such as those related to events of congratulation or condolences. Also, mandatory education on action standards is carried out twice annually for better understanding and realization of ethical standards by all employees, while an ‘intensive ethical standards system’ is operated online on the company website. Sustained Monitoring To confirm and supervise the proper operation of ethical management, regular ethical management monitoring for customers is carried out. To support sustained improvement of the evaluation results, rigorous feedback is carried out and incentive for ethical performance is reinforced in tune with internal evaluation. The standard of awareness of ethical management is diagnosed for all employees, while the results of the evaluation are utilized to enhance systematic factors and for the direction of future ethical management promotion. A system of round the clock feedback is operated to analyze and improve fields more prone to corruption through integrity monitoring of partner companies, and to designate and operate the satisfaction index and its responsible organization. Various open channels of communication are provided, including conversations with the CEO and the Rainbow A Transparent Communication Policy Conversation Room, to create an open debating culture and provide opportunities to all employees to participate in management. In addition, Rainbow meetings with the CEO and Lunchbox Meetings with the management level for open communication develop mutual trust and create a organizational culture of vitality through transparent sharing of management content related to the company in general. Also, through the round the clock operation of an ethical hotline for all partner companies(and their employees) and internal and external stakeholders, transparency of communication has been enhanced. 48 Company Overview Highlights 2010 Governance Structure & Sustainable Management Human Rights & Labor Green Management Fair Business Customers Participation & Development of the Local Community Innovation & Creation Appendix Operation of Reporting System In striving to prevent inequality, KOMIPO passed whistle-blower protection and compensation procedure guidelines in 2006 regarding violators of ethical regulations and operates an internal inequality reporting system. To support whistle blowing, the limit of compensation provisions was increased in 2009 to USD 1.76 million the highest level among domestic public institutions, and measures were revised to guaranteed absolute confidentiality of whistle blowers and contents of the report and to ensure there are no disadvantages as the result of reporting. KOMIPO also discovers model employees and cases of integrity by operating a website (cyber Sinmungo ) available to all internal and external stakeholders, which also receives any public complaints related to unethical acts by the company. In addition, an internal tip-off reporting system for unethical practices is used to mobilize an array of reporting systems for simultaneous online and offline reception of comments Management of Ethical Risk KOMIPO initiates improvement through preemptive identification of ethical risk that may occur in daily work duties or personal life by designating a total of 112 ethics mentors in all divisions and teams. In the case that an employee recognizes ethical risk, support for ethical counseling in any form desired by the employee is issued and counseling or improvement records are separately recorded as cases in ethical mentoring records to share as educational resources. Also, unethical acts are prevented beforehand through regular ethical fulfillment checkup activities by ethical practice leaders from each office or worksite. The auditing office operates concentrated improvement of areas prone to corruption through self-initiated integrity monitoring. Operation of Ethical Management To consolidate an ethical culture for employees, various customized ethical management educational courses Education and programs are operated. Mandatory ethical mini-lectures by the division director are carried out for five minutes before meetings start at each department, to practice ethical management in daily life. External commisPerformance of Ethical Education in 2010 sioned education, invited lectures by external experts and ethical VOD education are provided according to difSubject Name of Education Course Sessions ferent work duties, while mandatory fulfillment of ethical management is required especially of employees with High-ranking Ethical Leadership new work duties or promotions, and newly recruited employees. For high-level senior employees above team 3 Employees Education director rank, a reinforced integrity ethical leadership course (over 5 hours) is mandatory. For partner companies, Newly Deployed Special Education on or Promoted 9 opportunities for ethical management education are being expanded and round table talks on work duties for Employees Transparent Management Ethical Awareness in win-win cooperation is utilized to search for further ways to support ethical management. 12 Power Plant Invited Speaker Special Specialization of Enhancement of Voluntary Activation of Lateral Ethical 4 Program Ethics Lectures Ethical Education Ethical Awareness Communication All Employees Worksite Educational Tours 7 ·Transparency training · Realization of ethics in all seasons · Ethics mentor consultation service 5 Minute Mini-Ethics At all according to rank and _Designation and carrying out of 1 ethical _52 times per team or organizational group Special Lectures times work duties act per employee Prevention of Sexual _Designation and operation of ethic · Ethics speeches within teams 1 · 5 minute mini lectures before _Before morning meetings Harassment Education Performance starting work duties themes for each organization Newly ( → Internal feedback based on consistent · Designation and implementation of Introduction Course to · VOD on ethical awareness Recruited 1 enhancement and supervision) Ethical Management power plants ethical themes for each organization Employees (At time of employment) · Open call competitions for realization _Jun. 2, every year Partner Ethical Management · Operation of an intensive experiences, sharing case examples 4 ethics system Companies Education Cases of Improvement of Ethical Upon discovery of any occurrences of violations of ethical standards, the ethical management team or the auditing Standards office is immediately notified, and decisions on correction measures are made by the auditing office. Countermeasures are strongly required to prevent any reoccurrence of cases of the same nature, while strict measures are operated including joint responsibility by the person in charge. By enacting the ‘Operation Regulation on Employee Duty to Integrity Contracts’ (Dec. 2006), integrity obligations and responsibility for violations are clearly stipulated in the case of board members, contributing to the consolidation of ethical and transparent management. Ethical Regulation Enhancement Cases in 2010 Category No. of Cases Improvement Measures Strengthening transparency education, improving security of Unethical Acts 1 documents, strict application of circulated work duties Negligence 1 HR Measures, Reinforcement of Management Responsibility Disruption of Order in the Workplace 2 HR Measures, Implementation of education Establishment and operation of countermeasures for electronic Insufficient Maintenance of Data 1 document management Management of Irresponsibility 3 Implementation of of service management education and HR Measures KOMIPO Sustainability Report 2011 49 Inspiring Customers with Trust and Communication Customers Vision | Enhancing customer satisfaction through stable supply of electricity Strategy | Expansion of new power supplies and infrastructure to meet electricity demand, Efficient management of electricity generating systems, Customer-oriented power supply management Issue | Steady provision of electricity Performances | Improve price competitiveness through procuring reliability in power generation facility, Develop power supply related employees, Response to customer feedback Plan | Continuous gathering of customer feedback, Management of power facilities for stable electricity supply Management Team | Power Planning and Trading Team Current Status of Accomplishment of Promotion Road Map for New Construction Long-Term Trouble Free Service | as of the end of 2010 | Shin Boryeong #1, 2 2,000MW Incheon Combined #3 450MW Trouble-free Trouble-free Category Category Seoul Combined 1,000MW Service(days) Service(days) Boryeong#3 4,000 Boryeong ST#3 500 Haengbok Heat Combined 515MW Boryeong#4 1,500 Boryeong GT#1 500 Wonju Heat Combined 10MW Boryeong#1 1,000 Boryeong GT#6 500 Seoul Solar PV 1.3MW Boryeong#8 500 Incheon ST#1 500 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Incheon GT#1 500 Company Overview Highlights 2010 Governance Structure & Sustainable Management Human Rights & Labor Green Management Stable Electricity Supply Fair Business Customers Participation & Development of the Local Community Innovation & Creation Appendix Stabilization of National Electricity Balancing simultaneous production and consumption of electricity is critical as electricity characteristically cannot Supply and Demand be stored. Thus, to prevent the event of electricity shortage it is of great importance to accurately predict future demand of electricity and construct power generation facilities at the appropriate time. KOMIPO leads the way in stable supply of electricity through consistent procurement of power generation facilities and enhancement of performance of existing facilities pursuant to the government's Basic Plan for Long Term Electricity Supply and Demand to stabilize national supply and demand of electricity and secure future engines of growth. Construction of the Largest Power Generation Facility Among Domestic Power Companies l Recently, for stable supply of electricity to meet skyrocketing demand, construction plans are underway to complete new power plants of approximately 2000MW capacity at Seoul Combined Units 1 and 2 by 2014. Also, pursuant to the 5th Basic Plan for Long Term Electricity Supply and Demand to be established by 2024, KOMIPO strives to target timely construction of power generation facilities by reflecting plans to secure the greatest number of power generation facilities among domestic power generation companies, exempting nuclear energy. (4,265 MW of new power generation facilities constructed by 2024, not including new and renewable energy) Capacity of Power Generation Facilities Plans for Construction and Closedown of Power Plants Reflected in the 5th Basic Plan of Long Term Electricity Supply and Demand 12000 Construction Plans for Power Plant Facilities Closedown Plans for Power Generation Facilities Name of Power Generator Date of Construction Facility Capacity Name of Power Generator Date of Discontinuance Facility Capacity 8000 Incheon Combined Unit 3 Dec.31, 2012 450 (MW) Boryeong Combined Unit 4 Sep. 01, 2011 450 (MW) Haengbok Dosi Heat Combined Nov. 30, 2013 515 (MW) Jeju GT Unit 3 Jan. 01, 2013 55 (MW) Seoul Combined Unit 1.2 Dec. 31, 2014 1,000 (MW) Boryeong Combined Unit 3 Oct. 01, 2013 450 (MW) 5000 Shin Boryeong Unit 1 Jun. 30, 2016 1,000 (MW) Seoul Thermal Unit 4.5 Dec. 01, 2014 387.5 (MW) Shin Boryeong Unit 2 Jun. 30, 2017 1,000 (MW) (MW) 2012 2014 2016 2018 2019-24 Gunjang IGCC Dec. 31, 2019 300 (MW) Exempting renewable resource facilities Securing Reliability of Power Implementation of Scientific Facilities Management l Although limitations exist in the 100% prevention Generation Facilities of breakdowns in the case of mass-scale power generation facilities that are composed of countless parts, an array of facility reliability procurement measures are operated to minimize breakdowns. Foremost, based on the systematic and scientific facility maintenance management system (e-komipo) and the real-time operation information system, e-P&I system preventive check-ups and repairs are carried out, while preventive power generation facility management is carried out by systematic management and statistical analysis of repaired parts, breakdowns and repair records. Standard measures for preventive check-ups and maintenance | random breakdown → transfer of Preventive Check-ups, Enter Factors to be Repaired Enter Maintenance Plans preventive maintenance → prevention of breakdown Maintenance, Establishment of a (eg. amount of supply, (start date, cycle, etc) → increase reliability of facilities Comprehensive Plan (each year) Consumed resources) Designation standard for preventive maintenance criteria | responding to records Feed Back Establishment of an Automatic Schedule / Automatic Issuing of a Preventive Maintenance Order of maintenance(breakdown records etc), Recommendations of manufacturing companies, Fulfilling of Check-ups and Maintenance / Enter Results of Work and Recorded Details major machinery that may impact operations Performance Enhancement and Life-span Management l Systematic life-span management plan is carried out according to the life-span management plan for power generation plants for aging facilities subject to long term use, while repairing and performance enhancement is carried out according to the results of the diagnosis. All efforts are being made for the safe operation of facilities by operating preemptive prevention repair and regular check-ups for other facilities prone to breakdown. For the first time domestically, comprehensive performance enhancement and life-span extension construction has been carried out on Boryeong Thermal 1 and 2 with thermal capacity of 500MW, and this was reported at an international symposium as an outstanding case of performance enhancement. Expected Impact of Performance Enhancement of Facilities and Life-span Extension Construction of Boryeong Thermal #1,2, Life-span Extension of Boryeong Thermal 1.2. (Jul. 2009) Successful Supply of Electricity in Summer International Recognition of Performance Enhancement Technology Life-span Extension : over 10 years Reduction of 300 thousand tons of CO2 Presented as a Company of Excellence at Power Gen Asia(Nov. 2010 Singapore) Increasing Efficiency : 1.44%p increase Safe Operations Reduction of Fuel Costs : USD 11.8 million Performance Awarded the Asian Power Award KOMIPO Sustainability Report 2011 51 Stable Electricity Supply Fostering Core Technological Experts l KOMIPO supports acquisition of cutting-edge technology and fostering core technological experts by dispatching the highest number of technological experts among domestic power generation companies to the Electricity Research Institute. Also, KOMIPO constantly strives to secure the highest technological capacity among power generation companies, through operation of a virtual simulator at the Boryeong Education Center that matches almost 100% of the company's facilities and functions, customized expert education courses in the Power Learning Institute and academic education for overseas business. Domestic and Overseas Deployment of Technicians in 2010 No. of No. of Category Field People Category Field People Hyundai Green Power Maintenance, Operation 24 Malaysia POIC Operation 5 Iksan Sang-gong Energy Operation 4 UAE Samsung Demonstrated operation 12 Indonesia Cirebon Maintenance, Operation 15 Indonesia Tanjung Jati Maintenance, Operation 13 Indonesia Wampu Operation 4 Electricity Research Institute Expert 6 Lebanon Maintenance, Operation 10 Total 93 Major Achievements l The first Korean standard type coal-fired Boryeong Unit 3 has been the first in the world to achieve 4,000 days of consecutive trouble free service (17 Dec. 1998 ~ 7 Oct. 2010 certified by the Korea Power Exchange). Also, Boryeong 1 and 2, the first mass-scale coal-fired thermal power to be operated domestically, won the Asia Power Award in 2010 for 2 criteria (technological, environmental sector) in terms of performance enhancement and life-span extension. These achievements contribute to the great accomplishment made by KOMIPO in the domestic and international power generation industry. Awarded Asian Power Awards Official Certification of 4,000 days of consecutive trouble free service by Boryeong Unit 3 Enhancement of National As a country totally dependent on import of a majority of its fuel (coal, oil, LNG, etc), it is of critical importance Competitiveness through Securing for South Korea to improve national competitiveness through the stable and economical introduction of fuels for of Price Competitiveness stable supply of electricity and cheap supply of electricity for the public. For such ends, KOMIPO is expanding development of bituminous coal resources abroad, is purchasing bituminous coal strategically and securing stable purchase, is operating economical shipments and improved cargo facilities, and setting strategic and operational goals for direct imports of LNG to be used for power generation. Strategic Goals Operational Goal Name of Strategic Goal KPI Name of Operational Goal KPI _ Expansion of resource development for bituminous coal abroad _ Self-development rate Securing competitive Unit price for calorie of _ Strategic and stable purchase of bituminous coal _ Unit price of purchasing Global Coal advantage on fuel bituminous coal _ Operation of economical shipments and improvement of cargo _ Rate of transportation costs procurement facilities among unit price for procurement _ Unit price of imported LNG Successful advancement in Shares in the power _ Contracts to introduce price competitive LNG _ Construction of LNG receiving sale of LNG used for power generation LNG market _ Construction of basic LNG import infrastructure _ Advancement into the LNG wholesale market facilities generation (amount imported) _ Revenue from market shares 52 Company Overview Highlights 2010 Governance Structure & Sustainable Management Human Rights & Labor Green Management Customer Communication Fair Business Customers Participation & Development of the Local Community Innovation & Creation Appendix Customer Policy Customers can be defined as organizations or individuals that are greatly influenced by the management activities of the company and those that influence the accomplishment of its strategic goals. Accordingly, judgment and decision making by the CEO and employees are determined with customers as the standard. The customers of power generation industry differ from those of most other industries-they hardly ever have face to face contact with end-users. However, KOMIPO operates a policy of highest priority for customers through providing high quality and low cost electricity as a national public service industry. Direction of Promotion for Customer KOMIPO identifies customer needs through a diverse range of channels such as customer satisfaction surveys, and Communication reflects customer needs in major policies of the company, as the best mean of communication. Methods to Identify Customer Needs Method of Process Contents Commissioned surveys to external expert TCSI, Quality of electricity, Price, Corporate image, Customer Survey agencies VOC responses Power generation company management Sensory integrity, Potential integrity, Customer Transparency Survey evaluation (evaluating agency: KEPCO) Experience of corruption, Behavior/attitudes Satisfaction Survey ARS Customer Service Commissioned research to external expert Rapid reception, Phone etiquette, Kindness, Ringing off, etc. Survey agencies (annually) Internal Customer Satisfaction level of company employees with HQ Intranet Pop-up surveys Satisfaction Survey departments Website Live-Poll Live-poll on the official website Customer opinions on key issues E-mail Satisfaction Transmitting KOMIPO Inside e-mails Evaluate, Receive feedback on e-mails On-line Survey (to customers that have agreed to receiving mail) Website: Voice of the Q&As, free opinions, corruption reports, etc. on Transfer questions and/or reports to relevant department(s) Customer Webpage Database Creation for Saving and applying the e-CRM system Concentrate on unsatisfactory issues Customer Complaints Database Management of Constructing complaint records management Information Management of complaint records by type, complaint, area Complaint Records system Time-Series Analysis Quantifying customer satisfaction index Improvement trends, Change in satisfaction index Listening to Customer Receive opinions from face-to-face customers and process Off-line 1:1 Held jointly with work duties Opinions them Customer Meetings with Major Periodical implementation after establishing Meet with residents who live near Power Plants and SME Information Customers annual plan personnel KOMIPO Inside Operation System Securing a Leading Place in Competition through Customer Satisfaction Group Affiliates of the Government KOMIPO Inside Shareholders and Customers | and Electricity | 2,538 persons (e-CRM, transmitted 24 1,798 persons time each year) Total 7,036 persons Local Community Environmental ·KOMIPO Today ·Sharing Happiness Groups | 1,260 persons ·Information Network etc Affiliates | 1,440 persons Increase of User Satisfaction | Unit : points | Satisfaction Survey Results of Request for (5 points total) Information 2009 2010 | Unit : points | 4.47 97 97 93 87 4.23 83 4.15 75 2008 2009 2010 Convenience of Appropriateness of Speed of Reply Procedure Reply KOMIPO Sustainability Report 2011 53 Sharing that Leads to More Sharing Local Community Participation and Development Vision | A national company coexisting with local communities Strategy | Stronger local and global social contribution activities representing company's traits Issue | Contributions to local communities and its development Performances | Establishment of infrastructure for communal development, Ceremonial opening of energy world, Participation into Official Development Assistance Plan | Commence “Light of Hope Sea of life”, Strengthen partnerships with local communities Management Team | Strategy & Planning Team Number of Social Contribution Social Contribution Activity Voluntary Hours per Person Activities Hours 550 19,399 9.0 535 19,100 8.6 15 cases increased from the 299 hours increased from the 0.4 increased per person from the previous year previous year previous year 2009 2010 (case) 2009 2010 (hour) 2009 2010 (hour) Company Overview Highlights 2010 Governance Structure & Sustainable Management Human Rights & Labor Green Management Fair Business Customers Participation & Development of the Local Community Innovation & Creation Appendix Social Contribution Activities Community Service Foundations KOMIPO puts equal value on the goals of community development and entrepreneurial growth. Through effective communication with the local community, we have developed and systematic social contributions to aid those. Under the slogan of Hope through love, smiles through sharing. , We have founded KOMIPO Community Service Foundation. With 7 branches(head office included) and 88 communal service groups playing their role successfully, the foundation has reached out actively in mainly five areas of society such as culture and arts, scholastic education, environmental protection, disaster relief and social welfare. Foundation Jul. 2004 Slogan Hope Through Love, Smiles Through Sharing Organization 7 Branch offices, 88 Community service groups, 1622 Persons Activity Group Community service groups, Associations, Employee Family members Financial Sharing funds(Deduction from employee monthly paycheck) Sources Field of Activity Culture and arts, Scholastic education, Environmental protection, | Social Contribution Slogan | Disaster relief, Social welfare Social Contribution Slogan_The image of putting one’s arms around each other and the image of the heart represents living together with our neighbors. In addition, the yellow and orange symbolize the creation of a warm and loving society through social contributions. Organization Chart of the Community Service Foundation Community Service Foundation Head (CEO) Board of Directors (Sustainable Management Committee) Operations Committee(Committee Chair, Executive Vice President) Executive Office (Director of Bureau, Planning Vice President) Head Office Boryeong T/P Incheon T/P Seoul T/P Seocheon T/P Jeju T/P HaengBok C/H/P Branch Branch Branch Branch Branch Branch Branch (6 teams) (33 teams) (14 teams) (11 teams) (9 teams) (9 teams) (6 teams) Community Service Foundation’s Under the motto of Respected company co-existing with the community KOMIPO is increasing infrastructural Achievements and financial aid so that social contribution becomes a natural and essence characteristic of our company. Through our community service website (www.komipo.co.kr/csr), we encourage employee to participate in by sharing community service achievements and needs. In addition, we are increasing our matching grant up to 3 times for the Sharing Fund , the voluntary funding raised by employees. Social Community Service Implementation System Respected Company co-Existing with the Community Professional Pride Profit Contributing to the Community and to the Country with Pride Regional Solidarity Symbiosis and Selection and Focus Education Disaster Relief Cooperation Clear Water Green Cultural Events with Strategic Social Scholarship Funding Damage Recovery Aid Mountains the Community Contribution Environmentally Global Damage Protection of Natural Sisterhood Relationships (Concentrated Activity Friendly Classrooms Recovery Funding Wildlife Between Divisions on Construction Zones) KOMIPO Sustainability Report 2011 55 Social Contribution Programs Hope Plus Savings Account Project Fence of Love Project The Hope plus Savings Account is a business which a To support the children of low income families and small income earner saves USD 176 and an additional prevent the inheritance of poverty we, KOMIPO, USD 263 is added when done so. This KOMIPO has have established sisterhood relationships with 12 participated in the business since its introduction Community Children Support Groups and are managing to nation wide by means of helping and supporting various educational programs such as building disadvantaged people to accumulate money and remodeling projects, English education programs and boost their work morale. Since 2008, USD 79,000 has field trips to historic and cultural sites as well as art been donated(USD 237,000/ 3years accumulated) to museums. help the self reliance of the disadvantaged in Korea. Love Houses Built by Employees Themselves Opening and Sponsoring Regional KOMIPO employees have visited senior citizens’ old Community Events and worn out facilities nearby the power plants and Seoul thermal P/P has launched “GwangHyenot only repaired and remodeled the facilities but also si-won Cherry Blossoms Festival” during the voluntarily built a Love House accommodation over 3 blossoming season and Boryeong Thermal power weeks. Even though it is constructed from containers, has launched Hooray Boryeong Culture Festival the house was carefully made by employees and Madangnori Performance to create a sense GwangHye-si-won Cherry Blossoms Festival with their expert knowledge for construction and of unity with the local community and its members. electricity so that these senior citizens who live alone KOMIPO is also supporting various local festivals can live comfortably and free from worries about such as the Boryeong Mud Festival and Jeju Black monthly rent. Currently 3 Love Houses have been Sand Festival. finished. Eco-friendly Experience Classes Employee Talent Community Service Seoul Thermal Power has been managing a Summer KOMIPO's intra-corporation clubs and associations are Vacation Eco-friendly Experience Classes for volunteering their talents to contribute to the expansion elementary students since 2004. It held its 7th session of Sharing Culture. Examples are an employees’ band in 2010 and opened for 3 days with about 200 students. performing for the elderly in “Parents’ day Celebration we have taught children the value and preciousness of Performances”; the scuba diving group’s “Cleaning electricity and the necessity of energy conservation, Up Our Oceans Project” or culture loving group’s Eco-friendly Experience Class the driving role of our future. Through these various “Discovery of Plant Habitats Threatened by Extinction”; educational experiences and practices, we have put and the bike club’s “Bike Repairing Event.” an effort to inspire a sense of electricity conservation and environmental preservation. Kim Byung-ki Seoul Thermal Power Plant, General Affairs Team, Manager (Leader of Club Steam band) Employee Talent Community Service Our team prepared a meaningful performance for Parents’ day. Not only was it significant but new to us to see our elders having such a good time. Steam band is continuously participating in visiting performances to community welfare centers in Mapo-gu and Young Deung Po-gu as well as other regional events. We hope to create more opportunities for community service. To do so we’ll have to practice more vigorously. We hope that our band can be of some sort of hope and comfort to those who are suffering from difficulty and loneliness. 56 Company Overview Highlights 2010 Governance Structure & Sustainable Management Human Rights & Labor Green Management Fair Business Customers Participation & Development of the Local Community Innovation & Creation Appendix Light of Hope Sea of Life World Made of Light We are currently promoting “Light of Hope, Sea of Life” as a specialized community service project that reflects both our company’s business traits and natural resources. Just like we provide “Light” to the world as ecofriendly energy specialized company, we hope also to provide “light” to neighbors through our social contribution projects. Eyesight Recovery Surgery and Hearing Aid Support 1 Business Unit Looking After 1 Stream Establishment of Indonesia KOMPIO Elementary School Project for Preservation of Marine Fisheries Resources Aiding of Nearby Multicultural Families Light of Hope Sea of Life Management of Scuba Diving Community Service Team Creation of Overseas Medical Community Services. Project for Beautification of Ocean Near Communities Orchestra Performance (Disabled Children’s) Vitalizing of Talent Community Services for Fishery Communities Project for Protection and Preservation of Marine Fisheries Eyesight Recovery Surgery and Hearing Aid Support Resources As a characteristic trait, oceans surrounding power To give back light to those with failing hearing or sight, KOMIPO is currently plants have water temperatures suitable for fish to grow well and working with the Korean National Red Cross to aid 60 low income families KOMIPO is currently discharging young fish into nearby seas to maintain providing them with eyesight recovery surgery and hearing aid support. and obtain various types of fish species. Also, KOMIPO provides food for migrant birds during the bitterly cold winter seasons. Management of Scuba Diving Community Service Establishment of Elementary Schools in Indonesia To vitalize talent community service and fully utilize company resources In 2011 in accordance with our establishment of the Tanjung Jati Power Plant, KOMIPO manages 2 teams of scuba diving community services (fully KOMIPO is currently (in the form of a public private partnership) establishing an comprised of employees) to eradicate starfish and operate children’s elementary school in the nearby area to fulfill our global social responsibility. scuba diving experience courses. Through this we will not only provide Indonesia with stable electricity but also contribute to the regional community. 01 02 03 01. Protection of marine wildlife 02. Orchestra performance 03. Eyesight recovery surgery and hearing aid support. 04. Building of elementary school in Indonesia 04 05 05. Scuba diving community service team KOMIPO Sustainability Report 2011 57 Domestic and International Development Projects Official Development Assistance Since 2004, KOMIPO has actively participated in Official Development Assistance(ODA) including dispatching Project Participation workers with electrical expertise to help in the reconstruction of Iraq. In January 2010, KOMIPO signed a Memorandum of Understanding for Assistance and Cooperation to developing countries for Energy and Electrical expertise Areas and are assisting them on a full scale. Developing countries currently have difficulties from lack of electrical infrastructure with following their economic development and KOMIPO strengthens cooperation in the area of electrical expertise through teaching electrical skills and performing feasibility study of power plant construction sites. | Unit : USD | Year Country Area Entrepreneurial Content Working Expenses Thermal power plant construction and operation education Iraq Education 33,100 (Government officials in Erbil, Iraq) Hydro power plant construction and operation education Iraq Education 33,280 (Central government officials in Iraq) 2009 Technical Lao PDR Preliminary Inspection for Dam Construction in Vientiane 8,960 Consultation Technical Preliminary Feasibility Test for Small Hydro Power Plant Construction Tajikistan 4,480 Consultation in Tajikistan Hydro power plant building and management education Iraq Education 45,920 (Central government officials for waterpower plants in Iraq) Ethiopia electricity technology Ethiopia Education 46,360 (Electricity related government officials in Ethiopia) Tanzania Education Energy development (Tanzania renewable energy related workers) 39,950 2010 Technical Preliminary Feasibility Test for Irrigation Dam Construction in Hin Hup Lao PDR 9,220 Consultation Province, Vientiane Technical Preliminary Feasibility Test for Hydro Power Plant Construction in Cote d’Ivoire 41,620 Consultation Sasandra River Technical Preliminary Feasibility Test for Irrigation Dam Construction in Isabella Philippines 10,620 Consultation and Bukidnon Signing of the ODA Business Cooperation Contract Practical Education of Electrical Technological Skills performed for Developing Countries. Opening of Energy World Boryeong Thermal Power Plant, the nation's biggest thermal power plant, opened Energy World in June 2009 in an area of 17,000m2 with 2 stories above ground, gross area of 5,640m2, as means of promoting how electricity is created and used. Energy World is open to visitors of all ages and is designed to learn about the electricity industry in a friendly and easy way. It is currently a regional landmark. Expansion of Entry Road into On Oct. 15, 2010, construction of the Boryeong T/P Entry Road had been finished since its start 3 years ago. Boryeong Thermal Power The construction expanded the 7.5 km road into a 2.5m width two lane road including a farm road. KOMIPO contributed USD 14 million to this project. Also, a new entry road to the nearby elementary school had been built, along with the establishment of walking paths and safety guard rails to ensure safety for children. Energy World Opening Expansion of Entry road into Boryeong Thermal Power 58 Company Overview Highlights 2010 Governance Structure & Sustainable Management Human Rights & Labor Green Management Assistance to Areas Fair Business Customers Participation & Development of the Local Community Innovation & Creation Appendix Nearby Power Plants KOMIPO implements surrounding area support projects by the law for areas nearby power plants to create infrastructure for regional development. Also, according to the Amendment of Local Tax Act in Mar. 2011, KOMIPO will pay an estimated USD 7.2 million every year as a regional resource facility tax (0.0125 cent per 1kWh) which will be contributed to financial expansion for local government. Support for Surrounding Regions | Unit : USD million | 82.5 75.7 80 68.8 Total 60.7 60 50.1 USD 82.5 million 40 24.1 29.3 15.8 19.8 20 8.3 0 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 According to each years performance Public Infrastructure and Income We build infrastructures in power plants surrounding areas for revitalizing local economies through asphalts Enhancement Projects pavement works, purchase of agricultural materials and machines, community hall construction, local bus service running, maintenance of water supply system, establishment of social welfare facilities. Electricity Bill Subsidiary Program Since 2006, KOMIPO has implemented an Electricity Charge Subsidiary Program within a 5 km radius of Boryeong T/P so that residents of the local community can feel the benefits from KOMIPO’s power plant management. A survey in Dec. 2010 showed that the Electricity Bill Subsidiary Program was the most satisfactory project among all of the company contribution projects. Public Infrastructure and Income | Unit : USD million | Financial Support for Electricity Fees | Unit : USD million | Enhancement Projects 3.0 2.46 2.55 3.0 2.24 2.0 2.0 0.92 0.88 0.89 1.0 1.76 1.93 1.0 1.67 0 Public Establishment Income Increase Projects 0 2008 2009 2010 2008 2009 2010 Small Scale Public Facilities Among all power plants including ones belong to other electricity generation companies in Korea, Boryeong Project Thermal Power Plant is the only one implementing Public Facilities Project of USD 263,000 every year. By providing stuff for the local community, heating charges in winter and English education, the Thermal Power Plant strengthens the bonds with the residents as well as responding frequently to any community complaints they may have. Cultivating Talented Individuals in KOMIPO nurtures students in power plants surrounding areas with scholarships and educational facilities as a Local Communities means to improve the educational environment as well as to provide a base for individuals to develop. Financial Support for Education | Unit : USD million | 2.0 1.67 1.58 1.58 1.8 … 0 Dongbaek Drawing Contest 2008 2009 2010 KOMIPO Sustainability Report 2011 59 Switching of Thinking Diversification of Perspective Innovation & Creation Vision | Improve productivity through sustainable creation activities Strategy | Efficient operation of generation facilities, Secure future growth potential, Improvement of work process Issue | Financial achievement, Price competitiveness Performances | Adoption of Six sigma, Secure financial strength, Application of intellectual properties Plan | Technology development related to power generation, Elimination of future uncertainty with accurate financial forecast Management Team | Finance & Budget Team, Shared Growth Team Six Sigma Performance Profit Credit Rating Debt Ratio 27.1 30.3 A2 A1 A 118.9 USD 3.2 million Increase from the Rating Company Moody’s ARating Company 98.9 20.3 S&P previous year % Decrease from the previous year 2009 2010 | Unit : USD million | 2009 2010 2008 2009 2009 2010 (%) Company Overview Highlights 2010 Governance Structure & Sustainable Management Human Rights & Labor Green Management Efforts for Management Fair Business Customers Participation & Development of the Local Community Innovation & Creation Appendix Innovation KOMIPO promotes management innovation activities to help it play a dominant role in the domestic & overseas power generation industry. Especially, the 6 Sigma system adopted in 2009 as a companywide management innovation tool is being a great help in addressing longterm issues and cultivating innovation capability by utilizing statistical tools. KOMIPO has redefined its vision to ‘Beyond the Border, No.1 Thermal Power Company’ and is moving quickly towards becoming a world class firm in terms of management capability and is promoting improvement activities by harnessing the unlimited innovative efforts of all its employees. Quality Improvement Team Activity A total of 101 quality improvement teams are being operated in 5 business sites and the headquarter, where each of the improvement teams address 1~2 themes yearly and boast outstanding achievements such as being awarded with the President’s Award for 10 consecutive years in the National Quality Circle Competition. In 2010, the improvement team at Jeju Thermal Power Plant was honored to be awarded gold prize at the President’s Award as well as 2 gold prizes, 3 silver prizes and 1 bronze prize with the subject of “Operation Cost Reduction by Improving De-sulfurization Facility Process at Internal Combustion”. KOMIPO also encourages quality improvement activities through providing rewards and overseas training programs towards outstanding teams. Activity Performance of Quality Improvement Team Classification 2009 2010 No. of Themes Addressed 190 issues 189 issues Effect of Activity US $ 41.4 million US $ 24.7 million National Quality Circle Competition Gold Prize : 1 team Gold Prize : 2 teams No. of Awarded Teams Silver Prize: 2 teams, Bronze Award :1 team Silver Prize : 3 teams, Bronze Prize : 1 team Innovation Proposal Activity Through the Innovation Proposal System, which is being operated for efficient management of power generation facilities and work process improvement through creative ideas from employees, 1500 ~ 2000 proposals are considered every year, divided into general on-site improvement proposals and strategic proposals that require the company’s strategic decision. In case that a submitted proposal has a big positive impact on the company’s management, Idea Prize and rewards are provided after discussion of Innovation Performance Measurement Committee and Innovation Performance deliberation committee. In 2010, a total of USD 17,100 prize money was given for 6 proposals on Idea Prizes which are the 1st grade dealing with “Optimum Air-fuel Ratio Technology Development for Low Grade Coal Combustion of Boryeong Thermal Power Plant Unit 7,8” and 2 2nd grade, 6 3rd grade. Quality Management Team award Innovation Proposal Performance Contest KOMIPO Sustainability Report 2011 61 Efforts for Management Innovation 6 Sigma Activity The 6 Sigma system has been adopted as an objective to solve long term chronic problems and utilize new management innovation techniques. Having gone through the adoption period in 2009, KOMIPO has in 2010 focused on expanding the 6 Sigma culture throughout the company, and in 2011, KOMIPO is striving to secure independent driving potential by fostering Master Black Belts. Furthermore, the company has also renamed the 6 Sigma into Komipo-WAVE (Work Actively for Valuable Enjoyment) to improve the atmosphere as to innovation. KOMIPO has addressed 72 tasks during 2 years, attained financial performance of USD 57.4 million including expected performance, and of this, USD 46,000 was awarded as reward money. In 2010, a total of 601 employees mastered KOMIPO’s CAT (Change Agent Training) fostering program, which is carried out to promote awareness of innovation, and all employees are expected to master the program by 2011. The company is continuously consolidating the foundation for achieving its vision through training courses for reinforcement of teamwork and formation of mutual trust. Innovation Proposal Activity Performance 6 Sigma Activity Performance Classification 2009 2010 Classification 2009 2010 Task Implementation 32 issues 40 issues No. of Proposals 1,682 1,423 Amount of Compensation USD 27.1 million USD 30.3 million No. of Selected 979 688 Black Belt 20 Persons 29 Persons No. of Enforced 908 608 Green Belt 12 Persons 11 Persons Outcome of Compensation USD 40,600 USD 31,900 Management Improvement activity by Adopting 6 Sigma Management 5th Wave 6th Wave 3rd Wave 4th Wave 1st Wave 2nd Wave Consolidation Period Expansion Period Adoption Period Goal 2011 2009.3 2009 2010 2011 Fostered Talent 34 persons 90 persons (Total) 195 persons (Total) Implementing Method Specialized Agency Consulting Specialized Agency + Independently Solved Independently Solved Task Implementation 34 Trial Tasks (Focusing on BB) 105 tasks (MBB+BB+GB) 56 tasks (BB+GB) 6 Sigma Performance Reporting Competition All-Employees Change Innovation Training 62 Company Overview Highlights 2010 Governance Structure & Sustainable Management Human Rights & Labor Green Management Renewable Fair Business Customers Participation & Development of the Local Community Innovation & Creation Appendix Energy Business KOMIPO sets its vision to overleap to energy as a top class company endeavoring to achieve a total capacity of 1600MW in new and renewable energy by the year 2020. Domestic Plans for New and KOMIPO, based on its plans for investment plans according to the type of new and renewable energy source, Renewable Energy Business namely “Select & Concentrate”, plans to actively respond to the government’s Renewable Portfolio Standard Development (RPS) to be enforced from year 2012. In the short term, the company will concentrate on high productivity project development including wind power generation and RDF generation, in the medium term it will focus on biomass and fuel cell generation linked with group energy business, and it will promote large scale power development such as tidal power generation, tidal current power generation and onshore wind power generation as its long term plan. Furthermore, KOMIPO also plans to joint-develop over 10MW scale of large-unit solar power and wind power resources through strategic collaboration with provincial governments and the private sector, and for this positive collaboration has already been initiated by signing MOU contract with the provincial governments of Jeonlanamdo, Gyeonggido and Choongcheondo provinces regarding new and renewable energy development. KOMIPO will not stop implementing resource investigation for continuous discovery of natural new and renewable energy sources and securing good resources under its principle, “Securing of resources comes before business development”. Overseas Plans for New and KOMIPO’s overseas new and renewable energy development business, is planned to be carried out based on Renewable Energy Business development priorities, rather than focusing on development capacity, with a goal of genuine effectiveness, by Development means of selective investment that carefully considers business stability and profitability. In particular, the recently completed PPA of KOMIPO’s 45MW hydraulic power generation plant of Wampu, Indonesia, is a successful example of performance-oriented project that enables not only electric power sales profit by exploiting a hydraulic resource but also creation of added value through CDM business which is a leader in the power generation business. Status Diagram of Indonesia Wampu Hydro Power Project Facility capacity 45MW (15MW x 3 units) An eco-friendly conduit type generation plant without a submerged spot Wampu Dam Power House KOMIPO Sustainability Report 2011 63 New and Renewable Energy Business Ongoing Renewable Energy In order to actively respond to global warming and the government’s RPS Policy, KOMIPO is leading the green Business energy business by establishing “2020 New Management Strategy Vision” which aims to expand a total of 1,600MW renewable energy facilities by investing USD 1.76 billion by 2020. Based on KOMIPO’s experience and technology of developing Yangyang Wind Power Generation Plant 3MW as the very first of its kind in the power generation business, it is promoting 140MW capacity of offshore wind power plants in Jeju, Gangwon and Jeonlanamdo regions, along with joint development of onshore wind power generation business of the West Coast (2.5GW) and Jeju (200MW) regions. Site tion s truc Con Solar Power Generation Bird’s eye view of Refuse Derived Fuel (RDF) Wonjoo RDF Refuse Derived Fuel (RDF) Bird’s eye view of Yeosu Expo production plant Iksan RDF plant Seoul (1.3MW), Yeosu Expo (2MW), Jeju Univ. (1MW) Wonjoo (10MW) Iksan (10MW) KOMIPO consistently promotes various solar power Bird’s Eye View of Iksan RDF Plant | Iksan RDF generation business exploiting buildings and vacant ! business is located within the Iksan Industrial #$!! #$!%&'(! lots. The successful completion of eco-friendly Processing Stage of RDF Wood Pellet | Wonjoo Complex, providing high quality electric power by )*!+,-.&/0!% #$&1!2!!(34)!5!67891!:;<!=>?!@ABC! Yeosu Solar Power (2MW) facility within Yeosu ! Refuse Derived DE>F!GHBC'!IJ!+,-!KL4!MN1!O!PQR!S!TUVW(! Fuel (RDF) production plant, which mixing Refuse Derived Fuel (RDF) which is new and #$!! #$!%&'(! Int'l Expo exhibition hall is expected to contribute )*!+,-.&/0!% #$&1!2!!(34)!5!67891!:;<!=>?!@ABC! is jointly executed through government support renewable energy. It also provides low cost steam greatly to boost the image of KOMIPO as a leader DE>F!GHBC'!IJ!+,-!KL4!MN1!O!PQR!S!TUVW(! and collaboration with POSCO will become the to neighboring companies in financial difficulty by in supplying clean energy to 8 million domestic and future role model of refuse energy development. constructing a 9.8MW new and renewable energy foreign visitors through the synergic effect of Energy power plant. Experiencing Park and state-ofthe art solar power generation facility. Ganghwa Tidal Power Bird’s eye view of Hyundai By-Product Gas Site view of Hyundai Fuel Cell 300kW fuel cell facility, a joint project with Ganghwa tidal power site by-product gas Doosan Heavy Industries 400MW generation plant Additionally, with the goal of commercial KOMIPO has jointly established Hyundai Green Despite fuel cells' economic feasibility being low operation, KOMIPO is implementing Gangwha Power Co. Ltd. with Hyundai Steel and is relative to other renewable energy sources, the Tidal Power Plant business to be completed in operating a power plant utilizing the by-product gap is being reduced by consistent technology 2017, by composing a consortium with Incheon gas generated from Hyundai Steel. The bydevelopment, and it is highlighting its merits of Metropolitan City, Gangwha District Office and product gas power plant is a type of renewable over 90% user efficiency. As KOMIPO forecasts Daewoo Construction. The expected yearly energy facility exclusively developed and that fuel cells will take up a major role as a generation capacity is 1,556GWh, which equals currently run by KOMIPO, and is expected to renewable energy source in the future, the capable amount for providing 30,000 households, contribute greatly to the company’s fulfillment of company is striving to secure core technology or 43% of the total in Incheon Metropolitan City, RPS in the future. and price competitiveness through 300kW for 1 year. experimental R&D with Doosan Heavy Industries. 64 Company Overview Highlights 2010 Governance Structure & Sustainable Management Human Rights & Labor Green Management R&D Fair Business Customers Participation & Development of the Local Community Innovation & Creation Appendix Technology Development for With its R&D vision of ‘Securing new future growth potential’, KOMIPO is planning to secure technology Growth of the Power Generation competitiveness to become a leader in the global power generation market of 2020. With this aim, KOMIPO Industry will invest a total of USD 111 million by 2014 to secure 10 core technologies in the major 3 categories of 「Next Generation Thermal Power Generation」, 「Responding to Climate Change」 and 「Renewable Energy」, including improvement of facility reliability, digital automatic control technology, environment pollution prevention technology and renewable energy technology. To facilitate this process, KOMIPO created in July 2005 a ‘10 year R&D plan’ as its R&D road map. The company has further promoted systematic R&D by establishing a ‘Mid term 5 year R&D strategy’ in December 2009. This mid-term strategy was developed to help the company respond quickly to rapid environmental and technological changes in the domestic & overseas power generation industry. Year Low Carbon Green Development Technology High Efficiency Generation Technology Technology Development for Clean New Power Generation 2009 0.1MW CCS Technology Development 500MW Steam Turbine Performance Improvement MW Class Fuel Cell Localization of 500MW Desulfurization Facility Diagnosis & Life Cycle Evaluation During Pauses in Generator Operation Generation of Landfill Gas MGT 2010 10MW CCS Technology Development Localization of Boryeong Complex High-temperature Components USC Generation System Development 300kW Fuel Cell Localization Localization of Incheon Complex Fixed Wing Performance IGCC Management Technology Development 2011 Fly Ash Recycling Technology Development Standard Thermal Power 500MW Performance Improvement Generation Facility Danger Level Evaluation In conjunction with an implementation plan, KOMIPO is developing an optimal portfolio that takes into account the long research time and high cost required for fundamental and applied R&D in the power generation field. In addition, KOMIPO is also carrying out joint R&D with research institutes suited to the characteristics of each research project. New Power Generation Technology As of April 2011, KOMIPO is involved in 25 government-sponsored national research projects, including the & Development on Greenhouse Gas ‘1000MW Ultra Super-Critical Thermal Power Plant Commercialization Technology Development’ project and Reduction Technology the ‘CO2 Capture Technology Development through Chilled Ammonia Post-combustion 10MW Class’ project. In addition, KOMIPO is currently conducting 90 other research projects, including 5 in-house implementation studies, 58 projects in collaboration with small and medium sized companies, and 2 academic-industrial joint research projects. KOMIPO is also participating in joint R&D with the US Electric Power Research Institute (EPRI) and the International Energy Agency's Clean Coal Center (IEA-CCC) to secure advanced technologies. KOMIPO is focusing on future-oriented core technology development, through collaborative research on new technologies for new generation and clean thermal power generation, including Integrated Gasification Combined Cycle (IGCC) generation, Carbon Capture & Storage (CCS), Oxy-Fuel Combustion technology and Ultra Super-Critical generation. R&D Outcomes KOMIPO has invested a total of USD 76million on R&D and talent fostering during the last 3 years (2008-2010), and completed a total of 99 national policy and in-house research projects. Through these efforts, KOMIPO has significantly enhanced its competitiveness by asserting intellectual property rights over a total of 200 of its intellectual assets, including 53 core technologies of the power generation industry, such as performance diagnosis technology, and 6 cases of renewable energy technology development. KOMIPO has also transferred intellectual property rights over a total of 24 intellectual assets either for fees or gratis to hoping small and medium sized companies. KOMIPO is anticipating a cost reduction effect from its major R&D outcomes totalling USD 28.4 million and a foreign currency substitution effect of USD 50 million, including a yearly maintenance cost reduction of USD 3.3million from its development of a localizing Turbine Tilting Pad Bearing (KEPRI) system and a USD 7.2 million purchasing cost reduction through its localization of the Complex Generator Rotator Coil technology. Currently Ongoing Key Tasks 1 Korea’s very first ‘10MW RDF (Refuse Derived Fuel) cogeneration plant system’ 2 '1000MW Ultra Super-Critical Thermal Power generation commercialization technology development’ 3 Korea’s very first and largest ‘10MW class chilled ammonia CO2 collection facility (200 Ton/day) development’ KOMIPO Sustainability Report 2011 65 R&D Intellectual Property Rights Through ongoing R&D, KOMIPO is dedicated to safeguarding its intellectual property. With the advance of the knowledge economy, this intellectual property is increasingly recognized as a valuable intangible asset for both the company and the nation as a whole. Accordingly, as of July 2011, KOMIPO had acquired intellectual property rights to a total of 117 intellectual assets, including 88 patents and 29 utility models. In addition, it had applications pending for a further 57 patents and 26 utility models. Also as of July 2011, KOMIPO had granted non-exclusive licenses (either for fees or gratis) for 30 of its intellectual assets, including its turbine digital control system technology, to 25 promising small and medium sized companies. This is both greatly contributing to commercialization of its technologies and also supporting small and medium sized companies at the same time. Application Status of Intellectual Asset | End of Jul. 2011, No. of assets registered/applied for | Classification ~ 2008 2009 2010 2011 Net Patent 66 / 10 10 / 11 8 / 28 4/8 88 / 57 Utility Model 20 / 12 0/0 7 / 11 2/3 29 / 26 Total 86 / 22 10 / 11 15 / 39 6 / 11 117 / 83 Status of Intellectual Asset Technology Transfer to Small and Medium Sized Companies for Commercialization | Jul. 2011 | Patent Name Of Intellectual Asset Multi-Relay Testing Device Valve Wrench Hand Improvement Fixing Apparatus of Vibration Detecting Displacement Sensor for Vertical-type Pumps Dispersion-type Multi-channel Signal Analysis System Sound Absorbing Device Gas Turbine Exhaust Duct Non-Metallic Insulation Mat Utility Model Conveyor Belt Cleaning Device with Automatic Waste Water Discharge Outlet Transparent Insulating Protection Cover for Electric Conductor Connection Points Gas Turbine Rear Part Temperature Device Utility Portable Page-phone Testing Device Know-how Small Ocean Hydro Power Generation System using Warm Water from Steam Power Plant Long Distance Pipe Ultrasonic Technology Digital Turbine Control System Technology Acquisition Technique for Digital Radiation Transmission of Images from Boiler Tube Welding Points Outstanding Example of Utilizing Intellectual Assets Utility Model 118299 Gas Turbine Temperature Measuring Device Utility Details This structural improvement of the sensor that detects gas turbine rear part temperature is an outstanding example how R&D contributes to generation cost reduction through localization. This asset not only brought about a dramatic reduction in repair time but also achieved sales increases of USD 1.14 million with 10 cases of commercialization through technology transfer to small and medium sized companies(Hanwool Index). 66 Company Overview Highlights 2010 Governance Structure & Sustainable Management Human Rights & Labor Green Management Financial Performance & Fair Business Customers Participation & Development of the Local Community Innovation & Creation Appendix Mid to Long Term Prospects Financial Performance KOMIPO has achieved remarkably profitable and stable financial performance since its establishment in 2001. In particular, the company has maintained a steady increase in sales as it provides electric power to respond to increases in power consumption. KOMIPO achieved sales of 53,256 Gwh in 2010 and recorded a total profit of USD 4.25 billion, which represented a 30.2% increase from the previous year. The company realized a net income of USD 114.3 million for the year. Although difficulties were expected as the domestic economy in 2010 underwent economic recession, following energy price hikes from the previous year, in fact operating profits and current net income have continued to increase throughout the past 3 years. KOMIPO is showing excellent health in its financial structure, in terms of profitability ratio, debt to equity ratio, interest coverage ratio, EBITDA ratio, sales figures, and operating profit to sales ratio. Sales Figures | Unit : USD billion | Current Net Income | Unit : USD million | 5,000 4.25 150 115 4,000 3.15 3.26 100 77 3,000 50 2,000 0 -87 1,000 -50 0 -100 2008 2009 2010 2008 2009 2010 Total Assets | Unit : USD billion | Debt Ratio | Unit : % | 4.85 5,500 4.82 4.50 140% 125.41% 118.98% 5,000 120% 98.86% 4,500 100% 4,000 80% … … 0 0% 2008 2009 2010 2008 2009 2010 2008-2010 Financial Statements | Unit : USD million | Classification 2008 2009 2010 Sales Amount 3,152 3,262 4,249 Cost of Sales 3,202 3,092 4,010 Gross Profit on Sales ∆50 170 239 Income Sales, General, and Administrative (SG&A) Expenses 44 39 42 Statement Operating Profit ∆94 131 197 Non-operating Profit and Loss ∆24 ∆44 ∆63 Ordinary Profit ∆118 87 134 Income Tax Expenses ∆31 10 19 Current Net Income ∆87 77 115 Cash Equivalent 60 129 115 Other Liquid Assets 739 836 712 Investment Assets 119 174 180 2008-2010 Major Financial Ratio Property and Equipment 3,519 3,464 3,341 Classification 2008 2009 2010 Intangible Assets 45 50 43 EBITDA (USD ∆9.0 13.7 20.4 Other Assets 337 204 109 million) Statement of Total Assets 4,819 4,857 4,500 EBITDA Ratio ∆2.84% 4.20% 4.81% Position Operating Profit Current Liabilities 728 873 1,046 ∆3.00% 4.01% 4.63% to Sales Ratio Debentures 1,665 1,492 1,022 Net Income to ∆2.75% 2.33% 2.69% Long-term Borrowings 108 108 20 Sales Ratio Other Fixed Liabilities 180 194 148 Debt Ratio 125.41% 118.98% 98.86% Interest Total Liabilities 2,681 2,667 2,236 ∆4 2 2 Coverage Ratio Total Capital 2,138 2,190 2,264 KOMIPO Sustainability Report 2011 67 Financial Performance & Mid to Long Term Prospect Long Term Financial Forecast To actively prepare for an unpredictable future, KOMIPO established in December 2010 its ‘Mid to Long Term Prospects’ consisting of 4 scenarios (see table below). Updated scenarios are drawn up each year to reflect market changes. To comply with its 5th Basic Plan for Electricity Supply & Demand and the government’s 6th Public Institutions Advancement Plan, KOMIPO has established its 10th Mid to Long Term Financial Prospects (2011~2020) Plan. This plan reflects the company's changed financial status following the transfer of its Yangyang pumped storage power plant assets to Korea Hydro & Nuclear Power. Financial Prospect Scenarios Classification Explanation Feasibility Scenario 1 Has the highest feasibility, due to the 5th Basic Plan for Electricity Supply and Demand, and KOMIPO's expansion business. Feasibility increases from Scenario 2 Scenario 1 + Promoting Business scenario 4 to scenario 1 Scenario 3 Scenario 2 + Development Business Scenario 4 Scenario 3 + Examination Business The 10th Mid to Long Term Financial Strategy was established based on KOMIPO's 5th Basic Plan for Electricity Supply& Demand. The strategy provides a road map for creating future growth engines by actively promoting renewable energy business that fulfills IFRS accounting standards and asset revaluation. Major aspects of the strategy include construction of the new Boryeong units 1 and 2, new domestic & overseas business and “green” growth. As a result of the strategy, a sudden rise of debt is anticipated, because approximately USD 6.34 billion of external funds is expected to be required by 2016 to expand new facilities. However, this will be followed by a gradual fall after 2017, which will ensure sound financial health with the goal of a debt ratio under 100% by 2020. Long Term Financial Prospects | Unit : USD million | Year 2011 2013 2015 2017 2020 Sales 3,939.9 4,343.4 4,663.6 4,970.4 5,443.8 Profit 3,956.5 4,403.7 4,826.9 5,274.7 5,866 Profit and Loss Summary Cost 3,838.2 4,215.5 4,582.4 5,083 5,596 Net Profit 118.4 188.2 244.5 191.7 270 Assets 4,753.7 7,264.3 8,652.9 9,020.8 8,594.2 Debit and Credit Summary Liabilities 2,167.4 4,392.8 5,435.2 5,559.3 4,620.7 Capital 2,586.3 2,871.5 3,217.7 3,461.5 3,973.5 Investment Ratio 503.6 1,630.4 966.5 582.7 515.4 Financial Structure Improvement Methods Maximize Profits Cost Reduction Acquire Financing Strengthen Investment Analysis Expand high profitability Economical procurement Diversify borrowings Secure business profitability facilities such as new of fuel such as Seocheon portfolio for risk dispersion. through investment business Boryeong units 1 and 2. bituminous coal coReinforce analysis and deliberation reinforcement. Diversify domestic & combustion, etc. forecast through ERM. Analyze investment validity and overseas power generation Fortify consistent financial prevent redundant investments. business to prepare for management through Operate investment ratio cap slowdown in demand. financial monitoring, etc. and coordinate business in Enhance existing facility accordance with financial goals. usage and profitability. Road Map to Financial Structure Improvement Retrenchment (‘11~’13) Financial Stabilization (‘14 ~’15) Continuous Growth (‘16~) Strengthen Risk Management Implement Consistent Financial Maintain Stable Financial Execute Budget Retrenchment, Stabilization Strategy Structure Emergency Management Consistently Strengthen Financial Seek to Secure New Growth Engines Reinforce Investment Business Management Including Financial Including Overseas Business, Deliberation Monitoring, Etc. Business Diversification, Etc. 68 Company Overview Highlights 2010 Governance Structure & Sustainable Management Human Rights & Labor Green Management External Credit Ratings & Fair Business Customers Participation & Development of the Local Community Innovation & Creation Appendix Investment Activities Changes in Credit Rating KOMIPO has an ‘AAA’ credit rating from the 3 major domestic credit raters, an ‘A’ rating from S&P and an ‘A1’ rating from Moody’s. It has achieved an astonishing performance in its credit rating from S&P’s, improving from ‘A-’ to ‘A’ in December 2008, in spite of the financial crisis, while its Moody’s credit rating rose from A2 to A1 in April 2010. The company has the same level of overseas credit rating as the South Korean government. These outstanding credit ratings have allowed KOMIPO to consolidate support from friendly investors in domestic & overseas fund markets. As a result, it is in a good position to obtain funds in a timely manner to cover any financial shortages. Domestic & Overseas IR Activities Through active IR activities, KOMIPO has attained an advantageous financing situation and achieved a base of friendly investors in domestic & overseas fund markets. Various forms of IR activities are being developed to fulfill transparent corporate management through timely provision of KOMIPO’s major management information. 1 Strengthen Company Investment Attractiveness Targeting Overseas Investors Attract investment targeting overseas agencies and hold annual inspection of successful 2 Host Domestic IR Sessions Hold IR session in Yeouido for invited investors Target_ App. 50 participants from 22 domestic & overseas institutional investors including banks and securities companies 3 Newly Established ‘Q and A’ Corner of the KOMIPO Website provides Real-time IR, Investors’ Visits and Investment Attraction Activities Low Interest Loan Financing & In 2008, in a first among Asian companies, KOMIPO issued USD 300 million of foreign bonds at a low-rate of Systematic FX Management 4.96%. KOMIPO saved USD 1.6 million on interest expenses by financing USD 88 million using RUF (mid to long term commercial paper) method and taking advantage of interest differentials in swap markets. At the start the economic crisis in the first half of 2009, USD 176 million of the company’s debenture was issued at a reduced rate of 4.41% (down from 5.48%) through delay of the issue date after financing short term borrowings. In the second half of 2009, an extra USD 14.8 million of annual financing expense was saved by issuing s low-rate company debentures through early issue before the rise in interest rates. Additionally, the company endeavored to construct a healthy financial structure as it decreased its debt ratio in 2010 by 20% from 118.9% to 98.9%, by repaying USD 379 million of loans through self financing. It also improved its Won-to-foreign currency debt ratio from 52% to 64% by repaying Yen currency debts. In the face of increasing volatility in exchange rates since the global economic crisis, which is hindering FX Average Interest Rate on Loans risk management, KOMIPO has revised its FX risk management guidelines to effectively manage its exchange position through the adoption of bituminous coal and by implementing hedge plans involving an ‘FX Risk 2010 Interest Rate Management Committee’ composed of internal and external experts. Also, the company is fully committed to 5.25% From the previous year systematic FX risk management through prompt assessment of exposure levels and hedging against these, utilizing an ERP system and tailoring its response to each exchange rate scenario. 2009 Interest Rate 5.26% Dealing with each Scenario Sudden Rise of Short Term Exchange Risk Response Method Carry out short term borrowings for the time being then realize exchange From the previous year Exchange Rate Borrowings differential when exchange rate drops 2008 Interest Rate When analysis of sudden increase indicates an ongoing upward trend, repay Increase of Exchange Rate, Stop-Loss 5.20% (stop-loss) and purchase forward exchange as soon as short term borrowings 1%↑ Relative to B/L Futures Trading are redeemed Increase of Exchange Rate, Futures, Spot Determine the scale of exchange risk exposure (shipment quantity of within 1 % Relative to B/L Trading exporting country) in real time and purchase forward exchange Monitor daily and weekly exchange rate fluctuation trends to pinpoint the Foreign Exchange Risk Management Steady Exchange Rate Spot Purchasing right time for purchasing Committee's Performance Dealing with each Scenario Delay purchasing until fuel payment date and in case of falling trend review Decrease of Exchange Rate Natural Hedge on executing usanc 2009 USD 12 million profit 2010 USD 11.2 million profit 2011 USD 6.9 million profit KOMIPO Sustainability Report 2011 69 External Credit Ratings & Investment Activities Distribution of Economic Value Dividends | At the end of 2010, KOMIPO's accumulated Dividend Status | Unit : USD million | earnings were USD 114 million, showing a 50.4% increase 34.3 over 2009. USD 34 million of dividends was resolved 30 22.8 through a shareholders’ meeting held in March 2011. This 20 corresponds to 25.5% of the par value where USD 1.12 per 10 share was given out as a dividend. 0 0 2008 2009 2010 Tax Payments | KOMIPO paid USD 48.4 million in tax during 2010, including USD 44.2 million billion for VAT, USD 7.4 million for local taxes, and USD 0.44 million for other taxes. This represents a large increase relative to the previous year. Corporate Tax Payment Record | Unit : USD million | Year Corporate Tax VAT Local tax Others Total 2008 49.3 ∆8.9 13.7 0.8 55.0 2009 ∆0.8 ∆4.7 8.5 0.35 3.3 2010 ∆3.6 44.2 7.4 0.44 48.3 Interest | The amount paid by KOMIPO as interest to Interest Expenses | Unit : USD million | creditors totalled USD 71.6 million in 2008, USD 96.3 million in 2009 and USD 94.4 million in 2010. Though 110 96.3 94.4 interest expenses increased due to borrowing for the 100 construction of Boryeong units 7 and 8 in 2008, they are 90 71.6 now on the decrease due to recent low-interest refinancing 80 and repayments made from company funds. 2008 2009 2010 70 Appendix The Institute for Industrial Policy Studies, the 3rd party assurance agency for this Report, confirms that the KOMIPO Sustainability Report 2011 has sufficiently fulfilled all requirements needed for an A+ level in accordance with the following GRI G3 guideline Application Levels System. GRI Application Levels System Standard Disclosures C C+ B B+ A A+ Report on Report on all criteria listed 1.1 for Level C G3 Profile Disclosures 1.2 Same as requirement 2.1-1.10 for Level B Report Externally Assured Report Externally Assured Report Externally Assured 3.1-3.8, 3.10-3.12 3.9, 3.13 4.1-4.4, 4.14-4.15 4.5-4.13, 4.16-4.17 G3 Management Management Approach Management Approach Not Required Disclosures for each Disclosures for each Approach Disclosures Indicator Category Indicator Category Report on a minimum of 20 Report on each core G3 G3 Performance Report on a minimum of 10 and Sector Supplement* Performance Indicators, Performance Indicators, Indicators & Sector at least one form each of Indicator with due regard to including at least one form the Materiality Principle by Supplement each of Economic, Social Economic, Environmental, Performance Indicators either : a_ reporting on the and Environmental Human Right, Labor, SociIndicator or b_ explaining ety, Product Responsibility the reason for its omission. *Sector supplement in final version 2009~2010 4th RFIS/USN Industrialization Seoul City Environment 2009.4 2010.6 Awards & Prizes _ Minister of Knowledge Economy’s Award _ Environmental Protection ‘Excellent Prize’ 2009.5 2008 Power Awards 2010.11 9th Korea Safety Grand Prize _ Coal-Power Station ‘Prize of the year’ _ Minister of Public Administration & Security’s Award 2009.10 LOHAS Management Grand Prize 2010.11 36th National Quality Management Competition _ Special Prize _ President’s Award 2009.12 Very Best Agency for Safety Management 2010.12 Good Enterprise to Work 2010 _ Minister of Knowledge Economy’s Award _ Main Prize in Public Sector Status of Association & · Edison Electric Institute · Energy Economy Institute · Environment Conservation Association Commission Membership · Ethical Management Forum · Korea Electric Association · Korea Atmosphere Environment Institute · UN Global Compact Korea Institute · Korea Structural Diagnosis Institute · Korea Wastes Institute · Ethical Management CEO · Korea Standards Association · Sustainability Management Association · Korea Productivity Center · Korea CCS Association · Climate Energy Measure Forum · Thermal Power Policy Council · Korea New and Renewable Energy Association 71 Awards and Prizes 72 Third-Party Assurance Statement 74 GRI Content Index 78 Code of Ethics 80 UN Global Compact Practice 81 Reader's opinion 3rd Party Assurance Statement To the Management of the KOMIPO Sustainability reporting system and performance management methods. Report 2011 | The Institute for Industrial Policy Studies Examination of the reliability of the supplied data was not (The Auditor) was asked by the Korea Midland Power included in the auditing, because The Auditor was confident Co., Ltd.(KOMIPO) to audit the Sustainability Report 2011 that the report could be verified to a Moderate level as (The Report) and provides the third-party assurance on its having a minimal likelihood of containing errors, based on contents as follows. available evidence and from selective interviews conducted with people in charge of each performance area. Responsibilities and Objectives | All responsibility for the setting and management of The Report's sustainability Scope and Method | The Auditor conducted the review management targets, and for the collection, presentation using the process outlined below, by first, reviewing the and maintenance of all information and opinions within Completeness, Materiality, and Responsiveness of The Report, The Report, lie with KOMIPO. The objective of our auditing and second, confirming its indicatorfulfillment level for GRI/ is to check whether The Report contains any material BEST Sustainability Reporting Guidelines. misstatement or bias, to assess its information collection · Performance data collecting system and suitability of report process, and to offer opinions on how the quality of the process were assessed for each area report might be improved. · Financial data stated in the Report was reconciled against 1. AA 1000 AS (Assurance Standard) : This assurance the audited Annual Report Independence | The Auditor has no relationship with standard of sustainability management reporting was KOMIPO regarding any of its for-profit operations and · On-site reviews were conducted at the Headquarter office developed in 1999 by U.K-based Social accountability (Aug. 9, 2011, Aug. 12, 2011) management related institute, Accountability, a nonprofit activities. As The Auditor was not involved in the preparation organization that enhances social and ethical accounting, · Application level was conducted to assess the conformity auditing and reporting quality and promotes overall of any part of The Report and only suggested opinion. The of The Report's GRI/ BEST organization performance and accountability. The new Auditor has achieved auditing work with independence and version revised in 2008 is being applied from the year · Sustainability Reporting with GRI/ BEST Sustainability autonomy 2010. Reporting Guidelines Criteria | The Auditor reviewed The Report using the 2. The BEST Sustainability Reporting Guidelines: The · Sources and management of publicized data were reviewed Sustainability Reporting and auditing Guidelines were following reporting guidelines: jointly developed by the Ministry of Knowledge and · Response system regarding important issues was evaluated 1) AA1000Assurance Standard(2008) Economy (MKE),the Korea Chamber of Commerce and · Interviews were conducted with persons in charge of each Industry (KCCI), and the Institute for Industrial Policy 2) The BEST Sustainability Reporting Guidelines performance area Studies (IPS), at a 2006 Ethical management SM Forum 3) GRI G3 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines aimed at encouraging the expansion of Sustainability Limitations | Reporting through domestic business. The guidelines Type and Level | The auditing of The Report was conducted provide for five levels of reporting rigor (Level 1 ~ 5). · Limited interviews with persons responsible for each using the Type 1 and Moderate level criteria from the AA1000 performance area and for performance data, and limited 3. The GRI G3 Guidelines: The Sustainability Reporting AS (2008) guidelines. In order to assess The Report according review of data conformity Guidelines were jointly developed by the Coalition for to the Type 1 criterion, The Auditor reviewed the conformity · Limited on-site reviews at the Headquarter office Environmentally Responsible Economies (CERES) and UNEP in 1997. The newly revised G3.1 version was of data to this criterion, and on the basis of 3 principles · Limited assessment carried out on the basis of data and launched in March 2011, adding Human Rights, Gender publicized information during the relevant reporting period (Inclusiveness, Materiality, Responsiveness) from AA1000 and Local Community to the original G3 from October 2006. · No assessment of credibility on performance data reliability The 4th revised version is planned to be launched in 2013. AS(2008), assessed KOMIPO's notification processes, Recommendation | Based on the above auditing scope, method and the presented assessment guidelines, The Auditor did not find The Report to contain any material misstatements or bias. The material findings of The Auditor are included herein, and detailed review results and follow-up recommendations have been submitted to the management of KOMIPO. The Auditor confirmed that KOMIPO has recognized the importance of stakeholders’ participation for Inclusivity_ sustainability management and has endeavored to build up processes to facilitate such participation, and overall Has KOMIPO developed appropriate is actively pursuing sustainability management as a priority. Moreover, in order to implement sustainability strategies and processes to encourage management, KOMIPO has been actively collecting stakeholders' opinions in order to identify key sustainability participation by stakeholders? management issues. for that. In particular, The Auditor positively evaluated highly the following points: · Management of participation channels that can collect all types of stakeholders' opinions, including labor-management committees, board of directors at the general meeting of stockholders, community meetings & progress committee meetings, websites, environment newsletters and public relations activities. · Through interviews with stakeholders from economic, social and environmental fields, KOMIPO collected and publicized stakeholders' opinions on the necessity for sustainability management. However, we suggest that in future, the practical applicability of stakeholders’ opinions could be enhanced by further developing and implementing across-the-company participation processes for all stakeholders. 72 Company Overview 2010 Highlights Governance Structure & Sustainable Management Human Rights & Labor Green Management Fair Operating Practices Customers Participation & Development of the Local Society Innovation & Creation Appendix The Auditor does not believe that KOMIPO has omitted or excluded any information of greatest significance Materiality_ to its stakeholders. The Auditor confirms that KOMIPO analyzed media reviews, expert interviews, industry Does The Report address information benchmarking, stakeholders’ questionnaires, company policy, company's direct/indirect economic effects, of greatest materiality to KOMIPO and regulations and laws, in order to identify major issues and addressed these in The Report. In particular, The its stakeholders in economic, social, Auditor evaluated highly the following points: environmental fields? · Carrying out of more diverse and systematic materiality assessment compared to the previous year's report , in order to identify major issues of importance · The Report faithfully addressed the most important 15 issues among the identified major issues However, we suggest that future reports present more concrete criteria for determining the priority order of major issues identified in the materiality assessment, and that they organize their results more chronologically to indicate trends in existing and new issues. The Auditor confirmed that KOMIPO prepared communication channels with all stakeholders and identified Responsiveness_ stakeholders' key concerns and tried to respond to these concerns through sustainability management. In Does The Report respond appropriately to particular, The Auditor evaluated highly the following points. stakeholders' requests and interests? · Responsiveness to stakeholders 'requests and concerns by publicizing information related to stakeholders' key concerns through diverse websites (social contribution exclusive homepage, environmental management homepage, etc.) · Establishing vision and strategy for all stakeholders through DMA, and reporting in a manner that allows for easy understanding of performance related to each issue. However, The Auditor recommends that KOMIPO establish more diverse communication channels with all stakeholders and report information not just from stakeholder interviews, but also regarding performance status and plans, in order to enhance responsiveness BEST Fulfillment Ratio_ Relative to the BEST Guidelines, and in view of the level of reporting rigor and depth of information provided, The Auditor finds The Report fulfilled 93.91% of The Reporting requirements necessary to qualify for a Level 4, 'consolidation' type, among Levels 1 ~ 5. The Auditor found positively that the KOMIPO Sustainability Management Report 2011: (1) strengthened the Recommendations level of explanation of the company's business activity by presenting major data on domestic electric power status and new business domestically and abroad;(2) explained its sustainability management direction by presenting mediumand long-term roadmaps for vision achievement; and (3) reported 3 highlights for KOMIPO's sustainability management in Q & A form to aid understanding by stakeholders. However, we recommend that future reports consider the following recommendations: · Standardize of core performance indicators according to economic, social and environmental area and systematization of collection and management of performance data · Establish a comprehensive stakeholder panel to identify new major issues for KOMIPO · Publicize concrete examples of how practices reflect stakeholders' participation · Maximize value through increased publication of reports on core issues and reports that differentiate KOMIPO · Balance performance information according to economic, environmental and social area, and also report on negative Eligibility of Auditing Agency | The auditor requested by KOMIPO, the Institute for Industrial Policy Studies (IPS), was established in 1993 and has accumulated broad expertise in the areas of ethical management, social responsibility management and sustainability management as a professional institute since 2002. “The Auditor” is composed of professors from Korea’s top universities and practitioners with professional accreditation and extensive experience in sustainability management, having majoring in overall business management, accounting and environmental science etc. Aug. 22, 2011 President, the Institute for Industrial Policy Studies, Jae Eun, Kim KOMIPO Sustainability Report 2011 73 GRI Index Reported Partially reported Not reported ◇ N/A Reporting Category GRI Index Indicators Page Note level Profile Vision and 1.1 Statement from the most senior decision-maker of the organization ● 2~3 A_1 strategy 1.2 Description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities A_2 ● 8~11 2.1 Name of the organization ● 4 A_3 2.2 Primary brands, products, and/or services ● 6, 7 A_4 Operational structure of the organization, including main divisions, operating companies, subsidiaries, and 2.3 ● 4 A_5 joint ventures 2.4 Location of organization's headquarters ● 5, 7 A_7 Number of countries where the organization operates, and names of countries with either major operations 2.5 ● 5, 7 A_7 Organizational or that are specifically relevant to the sustainability issues covered in the report profile 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form ● 14, 15 A_8 2.7 Markets served (including geographic breakdown, sectors served, and types of customers/beneficiaries) ● 4 A_9 Scale of the reporting organization, including: * Number of employees; * Net sales (for private sector 2.8 ● 4 A_10 organizations) or net revenues (for public sector organizations); 2.9 Significant changes during the reporting period regarding size, structure, or ownership ● Inner Cover B_8 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period ● 71 CO8 3.1 Reporting period for information provided ● Inner Cover B_3 3.2 Date of most recent previous report (if any) ● Inner Cover B_8 3.3 Reporting cycle (annual, biennial, etc.) ● Inner Cover B_6 3.4 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents ● Inner Cover B_9 3.5 Process for defining report content ● Inner Cover B_4 3.6 Boundary of the report ● Inner Cover B-1 3.7 State any specific limitations on the scope or boundary of the report ● Inner Cover B-2 Report Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, leased facilities, outsourced operations, and other entities parameters 3.8 that can significantly affect comparability from period to period and/or between organizations ● 4~7 A_6 3.9 Data measurement techniques and the bases of calculations ● Inner Cover Explanation of the effect of any re-statements of information provided in earlier reports, and the reasons for 3.10 ● Inner Cover such re-statement Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the scope, boundary, or measurement methods 3.11 applied in the report ● Inner Cover B_5 3.12 Table identifying the location of the Standard Disclosures in the report ● 74~77 B_10 3.13 Policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance for the report ● Inner Cover, B_7 72-73 Governance structure of the organization, including committees under the highest governance body 4.1 responsible for specific tasks, such as setting strategy or organizational oversight ● 14, 15 GR1 4.2 Indicate whether the Chair of the highest governance body is also an executive officer ● 14, 15 GR1 GR3 For organizations that have a unitary board structure, state the number of members of the highest 4.3 governance body that are independent and/or non-executive members ● 14 GR2 Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to provide recommendations or direction to the highest 4.4 governance body ● 48~49 GR12 Linkage between compensation for members of the highest governance body, senior managers, and 4.5 executives, and the organization's performance ● 15 GR7 4.6 Process in place for the highest governance body to ensure conflicts of interest are avoided ● 14 GR13 Process for determining the qualifications and expertise of the members of the highest governance body for GR4 4.7 ● 14 Governance, guiding the organization's strategy on economic, environmental, and social topics commitments, Internally developed statements of mission or values, codes of conduct, and principles relevant to economic, and engagement 4.8 ● 12 environmental, and social performance and the status of their implementation Procedures of the highest governance body for overseeing the organization's identification and management GR5 4.9 ● 15 of economic, environmental, and social performance Processes for evaluating the highest governance body's own performance, particularly with respect to GR6 4.10 ● 14~16 economic, environmental, and social performance 4.11 Explanation of whether and how the precautionary approach or principle is addressed by the organization ● 32, 49, 70 GR11 Externally developed economic, environmental, and social charters, principles, or other initiatives to which 4.12 the organization subscribes or endorses ● 80 GR10 4.13 Memberships in association advocacy organizations in which the organization ● 71 A_11 4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization ● 16, 17 C_1,C_2 4.15 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage ● 16 C_1 74 Company Overview 2010 Highlights Governance Structure & Sustainable Management Human Rights & Labor Green Management Fair Operating Practices Customers Participation & Development of the Local Society Innovation & Creation Appendix Reported Partially reported Not reported ◇ N/A Reporting Category GRI Index Indicators Page Note level 4.16 Approaches to stakeholder engagement, including frequency of engagement by type and by stakeholder group ● 16 C_2 Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement, and how the organization has 4.17 responded to those key topics and concerns, including through its reporting ● 16, 17 C_3 Economic EC Disclosure on Management Approach ● 160 Direct economic value generated and distributed, including revenues, operating costs, employees EC1 compensations, donations and other community investment, retained earnings, and payments to capital ● 67, 70 EC1 Economic providers and governments performance EC2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the organization's activities due to climate change ● 38~39 EC2 EC3 Coverage of the organization's defined benefit plan obligations ○ EC3 EC4 Significant financial assistance received from government ● 63~64 EC5 Range of ratios of standard entry level wage compared to local minimum wage at significant locations of EC5 operation 19 EM4 Market EC6 Policy, practices, and proportion of spending on locally-based suppliers at significant locations of operation 19 EC4 presence Procedures for local hiring and proportion of senior management hired from the local community at locations EC4 EC7 of significant operation 19 Indirect Development and impact of infrastructure investment and services provided primarily for public benefit 54~57, EC8 through commercial, in-kind, or pro bono engagement ● EC6 economic 58, 59 impacts EC9 Understanding and describing significant indirect economic impact, including the extent of impacts ● 70 EC7 Environmental EN Disclosure on Management Approach ● 28 Materials EN1 Materials used by weight or volume ● EV10 EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials ● 10 EV11 EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary energy source. ● 30, 36 EV7 EN4 Indirect energy consumption by primary source 10 EV8 Energy EN5 Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency improvements ● 10, 35 EV5 Initiatives to provide energy-efficient or renewable energy based products and services, and reductions in EN6 energy requirements as a result of these initiatives ● 30, 36 EV5 EN7 Initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption and reductions achieved ● 30, 36 EV5, EV25 EN8 Total water withdrawal by source ● 30, 36 EV9 Water EN9 Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of water 35 EV20 EN10 Percentage and total volume of water recycled and reused ● 37 EV18 Location and size of land owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to, protected areas and areas of high EN11 biodiversity value outside protected areas ● 35 EV22 Description of significant impacts of activities, products, and services on biodiversity in protected areas and EV22, EN12 areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas. ● 36~37 EV26 Biodiversity EN13 Habitats protected or restored. ● 36~37 EV27 EN14 Strategies, current actions, and future plans for managing impacts on biodiversity ● 37 EV6,EV26 Number of IUCN Red List species and national conservation list species with habitats in areas affected by EN15 operations, by level of extinction risk ● 36~37 EV28 EN16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight ● 37 EV12 EN17 Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight ● 38 EV13 EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and reductions achieved ● 38 EV4 EN19 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances by weight ● 30, 34 EV14 EN20 NOx, SOx, and other significant air emissions by type and weight ● 38 EV15 Emissions, EN21 Total water discharge by quality and destination ● 34 EV17 effluents and waste EN22 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method ● 35 EV16 EN23 Total number and volume of significant spills ● 36 EV21 Weight of transported, imported, exported, or treated waste deemed hazardous under the terms of the Basel EN24 Convention Annex I, II, III, and VIII, and percentage of transported waste shipped internationally ● 35 EV29 Identity, size, protected status, and biodiversity value of water bodies and related habitats significantly EN25 affected by the reporting organization's discharges of water and runoff 36 EV19 Products and EN26 Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of products and services, and extent of impact mitigation ● 35 EV23 services EN27 Percentage of products sold and their packaging materials that are reclaimed by category ◇ 33 EV24 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with Compliance EN28 environmental laws and regulations ● 37 EV31 Transport Significant environmental impacts of transporting products and other goods and materials used for the EN29 organization's operations, and transporting members of the workforce ○ EV30 Overall EN30 Total environmental protection expenditures and investments by type ● 32 EV1 KOMIPO Sustainability Report 2011 75 GRI Index Reported Partially reported Not reported ◇ N/A Reporting Category GRI Index Indicators Page Note level Social _ LA Disclosure on Management Approach ● 18 Labor Practices LA1 Total workforce by employment type, employment contract, and region 19 EM1 and Decent Work Employment LA2 Total number and rate of employee turnover by age group, gender, and region ● 19 EM5 LA3 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or part-time employees, by major operations ● 24 EM20 Labor/ LA4 Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements ● 22~23 EM12 management Minimum notice period(s) regarding significant operational changes, including whether it is specified in relations LA5 collective agreements ● 22 EM13 Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint management-worker health and safety committees LA6 that help monitor and advise on occupational health and safety programs ● 27 EM14 Occupational LA7 Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and number of work-related fatalities by region. 27 EM19 health and safety LA8 Education, training, counseling, prevention, and risk-control programs in place to assist workforce members, their families, or community members regarding serious diseases ● 27 EM18 LA9 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade unions ● 27 EM15 LA10 Average hours of training per year per employee by employee category ● 20~21 EM27 Training Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that support the continued employability of employees and education LA11 and assist them in managing career endings ● 20~21 EM28 LA12 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews ● 14, 19 EM29 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per category according to gender, age group, Diversity and LA13 minority group membership, and other indicators of diversity ● 19 EM2 equal opportunity LA14 Ratio of basic salary of men to women by employee category ● 66,67 EM3 Social_ HR Disclosure on Management Approach ● 18 Human Rights HR1 Percentage and total number of significant investment agreements that include human rights clauses or that ● 47 PN2 Diversity, equal have undergone human rights screening opportunity, Percentage of significant suppliers and contractors that have undergone screening on human rights and actions NonHR2 taken ● 47 PN3 discrimination Total hours of employee training on policies and procedures concerning aspects of human rights that are HR3 relevant to operations, including the percentage of employees trained 49 EM30 HR4 Total number of incidents of discrimination and actions taken ● 19 EM7 Freedom of Operations identified in which the right to exercise freedom of association and collective bargaining may be at association and HR5 significant risk, and actions taken to support these rights 22~23 EM8 collective bargaining Operations identified as having significant risk for incidents of child labor, and measures taken to contribute to Child labor HR6 ● 78~79 EM9 the elimination of child labor Forced and Operations identified as having significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory labor, and measures to HR7 contribute to the elimination of forced or compulsory labor ● 78~79 EM10 compulsory labor Security Percentage of security personnel trained in the organization's policies or procedures concerning aspects of HR8 human rights that are relevant to operations ○ EM31 practices Indigenous rights HR9 Total number of incidents of violations involving rights of indigenous people and actions taken ◇ CO2 Social_ SO Disclosure on Management Approach ● 54 Society Community Nature, scope, and effectiveness of any programs and practices that assess and manage the impacts of SO1 operations on communities, including entering, operating, and exiting 55 CO2 SO2 Percentage and total number of business units analyzed for risks related to corruption ● 78~79 CO5 Corruption SO3 Percentage of employees trained in organization's anti-corruption policies and procedures. ● 78~79 CO5 SO4 Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption ● 78~79 CO5 Public policy SO5 Public policy positions and participation in public policy development and lobbying ● 78~79 CO6 Anti-competitive SO6 Total value of financial and in-kind contributions to political parties, politicians, and related institutions by country ● 78~79 CO7 behavior SO7 Total number of legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly practices and their outcomes 47 CS3 Compliance Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with laws SO8 and regulations ◇ CO9 Social_ PR Disclosure on Management Approach ● 50 Product Life cycle stages in which health and safety impacts of products and services are assessed for improvement, Responsibility Customer health PR1 and percentage of significant products and services categories subject to such procedures ● 26~27 CS4 and safety Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning health and safety PR2 impacts of products and services during their life cycle, by type of outcomes ● 27 CS11 Type of product and service information required by procedures, and percentage of significant products and PR3 services subject to such information requirements ● 53 CS5 Product and Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning product and service labelling PR4 service information and labeling, by type of outcomes ◇ CS12 PR5 Practices related to customer satisfaction, including results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction ● 53 CS9 76 Company Overview 2010 Highlights Governance Structure & Sustainable Management Human Rights & Labor Green Management Fair Operating Practices Customers Participation & Development of the Local Society Innovation & Creation Appendix Reported Partially reported Not reported ◇ N/A Reporting Category GRI Index Indicators Page Note level Programs for adherence to laws, standards, and voluntary codes related to marketing communications, PR6 including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship ◇ Marketing communications Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning marketing PR7 communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship by type of outcomes ◇ PR8 Total number of substantiated complaints regarding breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer data ● 49 Customer privacy Monetary value of significant fines for non-compliance with laws and regulations concerning the provision and PR9 use of products and services ◇ GRI Supplement Index Profile EU1 Net energy output broken down by primary energy source and by regulatory regime ● 4, 6~7 EU2 Number of residential, industrial, institutional and commercial customer accounts ◇ Organizational profile EU3 Length of above and underground transmission and distribution lines by regulatory regime ◇ EU4 Allocation of CO2e emissions allowances or equivalent, broken down by carbon trading framework. ◇ Economic Availability and EU5 Management approach to ensure short and long-term electricity availability and reliability ● 3, 5, 7, 11 reliability Demand-side EU6 Demand-side management programs including residential, commercial, institutional and industrial programs ● 51, 63~64 management Research and development activity and expenditure aimed at providing reliable electricity and promoting R&D EU7 sustainable development ● 65 Plant EU8 Provisions for decommissioning of nuclear power sites ◇ decommissioning Availability and EU9 Planned capacity against projected electricity demand over the long term, broken down by energy source and regulatory regime ● 63~64 reliability EU10 Estimated capacity (MW) saved through demand-side management programs ● 51 Demand-side management Estimated energy (MWh) saved through demand-side management programs, broken down by residential, EU11 commercial, institutional and industrial customers ● 63~64 EU12 Average generation efficiency of thermal plants by energy source and regulatory regime ● 6, 7 System Efficiency EU13 Transmission and distribution losses as a percentage of total energy ◇ Environmental Biodiversity EU14 Biodiversity of offset habitats compared to the biodiversity of the affected areas ● 36~37 Social EU15 Processes and processes to ensure the availability of a skilled workforce ● 20~21 Days worked by contractor and subcontractor employees involved in construction, EU16 operation and maintenance activities ○ Employment EU17 Percentage of contractor and subcontractor employees that have undergone relevant health and safety training ○ EU18 Stakeholder participation in the decision making process related to energy planning and infrastructure development ● 16, 17 EU19 Approach to managing the impacts of displacement ◇ Community Contingency planning measures, disaster/emergency management plan and training programs, EU20 and recovery/restoration plans ● 26~27 Disaster/ Emergency plaEU21 Number of people physically or economically displaced and compensation, broken down by type of project ○ nning&response Programs, including those in partnership with government, to improve or maintain access to electricity and EU22 customer support services ● 49,63~64,69 Community Practices to address language, cultural, low literacy and disability related barriers to accessing and safely using EU23 electricity and customer support services ● 58 Number of injuries and fatalities to the public involving company assets, including legal judgments, settlements Access EU24 and pending legal cases of diseases ○ EU25 Percentage of population unserved in licensed distribution or service areas ◇ Provision of information Number of residential disconnections for non-payment, broken down by duration of disconnection and by EU26 regulatory regime ◇ Public health EU27 Power outage frequency ◇ and safety EU28 Average power outage duration ◇ Access EU29 Average plant availability factor by energy source and by regulatory regime ● 6~7 KOMIPO Sustainability Report 2011 77 Code of Ethics Chapter 1. KOMIPO’s Social Responsibilities Chapter 3. Liabilities Towards Shareholders and Investors Article 1 (Commitment to Sound Corporate Activities) Article 6 (Protecting Shareholders’ Interests) 1. We will renew our corporate culture through transparent management 1. We will endeavor to protect our shareholders’ interests through and contribute to the promotion of a market economy through free and reasonable investments and efficient management. fair competition. 2. We will strive to win proper evaluations through positive PR 2. We will reject nepotism based on regional, academic, or bloodties activities. and operate the organization under the principle of free and fair competition. Article 7 (Transparent Management) 3. We will be a dependable and reliable corporation that divides its 1. We will disclose information on our current operational status and profits in a fair and reasonable manner. future prospects to shareholders and other stakeholders. 2. We will outline the company’s financial status and show our Article 2 (Commitment to Community) accounting in an open and transparent manner in accordance with 1. We will return a reasonable portion of our corporate profits to society all related laws and regulations and generally-accepted accounting and contribute to the social and cultural development of the community. practices. 2. We will develop a sense of shared commitment between the company 3. We will make every effort to guarantee the rights of shareholders and the community by developing and supporting various pathways of by providing them with relevant information and opportunities to exchange with it. participate in major decisions. Article 3 (Commitment to Environmental Preservation) Article 8 (Protection of Company Property and Information) 1. We will devise preand post-measures to address environmental 1. We will not appropriate company property for our own use. problems associated with the power generation business and try our 2. We will not cause harm to the company by divulging trade secrets, utmost to prevent environmental contamination and protect nature. such as management or technological information. 2. We will strictly observe national and local government environmentally 3. Other information obtained at work will not be divulged without prior related laws and standards and be an environmentally friendly corporation. permission or approval, and will only be used for decision-making or to further work processes at the company. Chapter 2. Duties Towards Customers and Affiliates Chapter 4. Relationship of the Company and Its Employees Article 4 (Customer-oriented Management) 1. We will make the satisfaction of middleand end-users our first Paragraph 1 Duties of Employees priority when evaluating our corporate activities. Article 9 (Respecting People) 2. We will do our best to supply high-quality electricity at a reasonable price and always give our customers honest and truthful information. 1. We will respect each employee’s dignity and value and work to improve the quality of their lives. 3. We will sincerely listen to our customers, expedite any claims, and notify them of the results. 2. We will respect the private lives of individuals and try to solve any and all problems that our employees may have. Article 5 (Fair trade with Affiliates_ Revised: 2009.08.03) 3. We will be generous in assessing the best efforts of every employee. 1. We will build an equal partnership with our associates and affiliates through honest and fair trading.(Revised:2009.08.03) Article 10 (FairTreatment) 2. We will provide equal opportunities to qualified associates and 1. We will encourage our employees’ creativity and give them fair affiliates and trade with them using fair procedures. opportunities based on their abilities and talents. (Revised: 2009.08.03) 2. We will reject regional, academic, or blood ties and operate the 3. We will not carry out any unfair practices, such as passing on costs organization under the principle of free and fair competition by using our dominant market position.(Revised:2009.08.03) 78 Company Overview 2010 Highlights Governance Structure & Sustainable Management Human Rights & Labor Green Management Fair Operating Practices Customers Participation & Development of the Local Society Innovation & Creation Appendix Article 11 (Support for Self-development) Paragraph 3 Relationships between Employees 1. We will fully support the development of our employees’ abilities. Article 17 (Promoting Comradeship) 2. We will provide our employees with optimal working conditions so 1. Employees will develop a sense of unity and comradeship by treating they can express their creativity and talents to the utmost. each other with trust and respect. Article 12 (Improving the Working Environment) 2. Employees will not tolerate or adopt any wrongdoing by their coworkers, but will instead confront them at a proper time, thereby 1. We will develop a pleasant corporate environment so that our promoting the development of the company and its workers. employees will feel good about their work and their work-place. 2. We will provide healthy working conditions and an environment that Article 18 (Prohibition Against the Giving of Money, Articles, ensures our employees’ health and safety. and Other Transactions between Employees) 1. Except for socially-accepted cases, employees shall not give or receive money or entertainments. Paragraph 2 Employees’ Duties to the Company 2. Excessive personal closeness or exchanges will not be allowed, Article 13 (Fair Work Requirements) other than those regarding work duties. 1. Employees will collaborate with other individuals and departments to achieve the common goals of the company. 2. Employees will abide by all laws and company regulations. Chapter 5. Harmony between Labor and management 3. Employees will make the company’s profitability their first priority within ethical boundaries when they and the company have a Article 19 (Harmonious Labor-Management Relations) conflict of interest.(Revised: 2009.08.03) 1.Both labor and management will create a productive relationship 4. Employees will not offer or accept unreasonable requests, money, based on mutual trust and harmony. other articles, or entertainments relating to their work. 2. Both labor and management will develop efficient communications (Revised: 2009.08.03) channels to eliminate any possible conflicts in advance. Article 14 (Sound Attitudes) Article 20 (Duty of the Company and Employees) 1. Employees will take the lead in establishing sound ethical standards 1. The company will develop and implement programs to improve the in the organization by performing their duties in an honest and quality of life of its employees, such as creating a cultural environment transparent manner. and expanded social welfare facilities. 2. Employees will protect the company’s reputation and their own by 2. The employees will try to achieve a sense of balance between the always behaving in a reasonable and responsible manner. organization and the individual and contribute to the development of 3. Employees will be honest and sincere in their private lives. both parties. Article 15 (Self-development) 1. Employees will endeavor to become true professionals in their work. 2. Employees will contribute to the company’s development through innovation and work improvements. This code shall be implemented on the day of proclamation. Article 16 (Working Environment and Safety) 1. Employees will maintain a pleasant work environment by keeping their surroundings neat and well-organized. Supplementary provision (2009.08.03) 2. Employees will strictly observe all safety regulations to prevent This code shall be implemented on the day of proclamation. accidents. KOMIPO Sustainability Report 2011 79 UN Global Compact Implementation KOMIPO has complied with the 10 principles of UN Global Compact since joining in 2006 and annually submits COP (Communication on Progress). Hereafter, the company will continue to bring happy future to our society by fulfilling social responsibilities as a world business citizen according to international ethical standards. Classification Principles Related Codes and Policies Performance Outcome · Training in human rights self-development 1. Companies shall support · Ethics charter (Respect each individual’s dignity and values) · Managers’ leadership training and respect protection of · Ethics code Article 9 (Respect each individuals) · Family friendly management internationally proclaimed · Rules of employment Article 10 (Respect subordinates’ personality) Human Rights · Supports foreign workers and international couples, human rights · Collective agreement Chapter 8 (Protect human rights & personal information) multicultural family etc. 2. Companies shall make sure · Conduct code Article 23 (Manage just and transparent acquisition of information) · Carries out sexual harassment prevention training that they are not complicit in · Foreign worker protection guideline Article 12/ Article 4 · Runs internal corruption reporting center human rights abuses (Prohibit any abuse/Protect privacy) · Guarantees the right to legal defense when disciplined 3. Companies shall uphold the ·Collective agreement Chapter 13/ Chapter 14 freedom of association and (Safeguard rights to collective bargaining and strikes) · Runs work hour exemption system the effective recognition of the ·Foreign worker protection guideline Article 10 · Multi-labor union system right to collective bargaining (Uphold the freedom of association and collective bargaining) ·Collective agreement Chapter 7 / Chapter 8 4. Companies shall uphold the (Observe work hours, need employees’ agreement for overtime works, prohibit · Runs grievance committee elimination of all forms of overtime works for pregnant employees) · Carries out 40 hr-work-week forced and compulsory labor ·Ethics code Article 12 (Improving the working environment) · Provides extra payment for overtime, holiday, night hour work ·Detailed rules of implementing remuneration regulation (Pay reasonable wages) Labor 5. Companies shall uphold the · Foreign worker protection guideline (Prohibit child labor) · Has set up Sisterhood relationship with child centers(8 places) effective abolition of child · Observes laws prohibiting child and forced labor and all related laws in · Deploys children’s human rights protection activities such labor Labor Standard Law and International Labor Organization regulations as running Children’s Science and English Camp ·Ethics code Article 10 (Fair treatment) · Abolished employment discrimination based on ·Collective agreement Chapter 5 / Chapter 6 / Chapter 9 age/academic background (Fair treatment/ Equal pay for both genders/ Gender equality) 6. Companies shall uphold the · Carries out youth internship program ·Employment code Article 5 (Fair treatment) elimination of discrimination · Bans any discrimination in regular retirements/ ·HR management code Article 2 in employment and occupation other retirements/dismissals (Basic principles of HR management: Fair treatment & management) · Secures equal opportunity in training/promotion/relocation ·Foreign worker protection guideline Article 1 · Runs self-reporting system (Principles of nondiscrimination and equality of opportunity) · Environmental vision and strategy (The first class company that puts the environment and people first) ·Published promotional/educational booklets on the 7. Companies shall support · ECO 2015 mid to long term environmental strategy Climate Change Convention. a precautionary approach to (Established promotion strategies to move quickly towards becoming one of the ·Expanded eco-preservation program environmental challenges world’s top 10 environmental management energy companies) ·Runs environment committee · Ethics code Article 3 (A commitment to preserve the environment) · Organized T/F team to respond to the Climate Change · Environmental vision and strategy / Ethics code Article 3 Convention at corporate level. 8. Companies shall undertake · ECO 2015 mid to long term environmental strategy · ERP linked greenhouse gas emission statistical analysis initiatives to promote · Mid to long term master plan responding to climate change Environment system constructed environmental responsibility (4 main promotion strategies established to decrease by 10% greenhouse gas · Climate change expert nurturing training emission sources by 2020) · Release environmental information · Promoted international CDM business · Carried out CCS(Greenhouse gas reduction technology) 9. Companies shall encourage · Environmental vision and strategy / Ethics code Article 3 development development and diffusion · ECO 2015 mid to long term environmental strategy · Promoted IGCC(Integrated Gasification Combined Cycle) of environmentally friendly · Mid to long term master plan responding to climate change utilization technologies · Constructed environmentally friendly facility (desulfurization, denitrification) · Ethics charter / Ethics code / Conduct code · Abidance commitment of executive · Executives’ occupational integrity pact management regulation(Responsible for employees’ incorrupt duties staff’s avoidance of corruption in their duties and for dealing with violations) · Consistent ethics training implemented including special 10. Companies shall work · Behavioral guides for duty related persons (Detailed behavioral standards of training of incorrupt ethics by employee positions, and 5 mins. against corruption in all its incorrupt ethics on duty related persons that employees shall abide by) of special lectures on ethics in meetings, etc. Anti Corruption forms, including extortion and · Behavioral guides on contract tasks with overseas companies · Designates and operates ethics mentors by teams bribery (Behavioral standards that employees shall abide by to enhance transparency · Runs internal irrationality report center, reporting board, and justice of contracting tasks with foreign companies.) ethics hotline, gift return center · Internal reporter protection·compensation handling guides / · Runs internal accounting control Corporate card management guides · Evaluation and clean card system 80 Readers’ Questionnaire We appreciate your cooperation. If you have any questions or opinions, please send them via fax to 070 -7511-1046 or by e-mail to sustainable@komipo.co.kr Readers’ Questionnaire for KOMIPO Sustainability Report 2011 KOMIPO intended to outline its sustainability management activities in this report. To make improvements to its contents, readers’ opinions are welcomed. Your opinions will be reflected in future reports. 1. What is your relationship with KOMIPO? _ Investor/Shareholder _Cooperating Companies _Local resident _Member of NGO _ Industrial sector _Academic sector _Government official _Employee of KOMIPO _ Other (please specify: ) 2. What is your overall evaluation of this report? _Good _Moderate _Bad 3. Was this report easy to understand? _Good _Moderate _Bad 4. What did you think of the amount of information that this report contains? _Too much _Moderate _Not enough 5. Which aspect do you think is the most successful? _Contents, editing and structure _Level of contents _Various data _Design 6. Which section interested you the most? _Introduction _Economy section _Environment section _Society section 7. Which section do you think needs improvement? _Introduction _Economy section _Environment section _Society section 8. Please share any ideas you have on this report. Thank you. KOMIPO Sustainability Report 2011 81 KOMIPO Sustainability Report This report can be downloaded from the KOMIPO website. Contact the following numbers for further inquiries or details about sustainability or this report. www.komipo.co.kr 17th Floor, KEPCO Building, 512 Yeongdongdae-ro, Gangnam-gu, Seoul, Korea 135-791 Strategy Planning Team Tel_ 070 -7511-1127 Fax_ 070-7511-1046 e-mail_ sustainable@komipo.co.kr design_ Reddot Branding (82-2-584-0418) This report was printed with soy-based ink on eco-friendly paper using non-chlorine bleached pulp.(ECF) KOMIPO: At the center of a Warm & Caring Society www.komipo.co.kr
