Anixter International United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress Period covered From: 1/6/12 To: 12/31/12 To our stakeholders: I am pleased to confirm that Anixter International reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labor, Environment and Anti-Corruption. In this annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. Sincerely yours, Robert J. Eck President and Chief Executive Officer Anixter International Page 2 of 22 2012 Communication on Progress Table of Contents Human Rights Principles 4 Human Rights Policies 4 Human Rights Accomplishments 5 Workplace Safety Policies 5 Workplace Safety Accomplishments 6 Labor Principles 7 Labor Policies 7 Labor Accomplishments 8 Environmental Principles 9 Environmental Product Compliance Policy 9 Environmental Product Compliance Accomplishments 9 Corporate Sustainability Policy 10 Corporate Sustainability Accomplishments 10 Energy Accomplishments 10 Waste Accomplishments 11 Materials and Natural Resources Accomplishments 13 Transportation Accomplishments 15 Advancing Sustainability and Corporate Responsibility 16 Development and Diffusion of Environmentally Friendly Technologies 18 Anixter ipAssuredSM Data Center HealthCheckSM 18 Anixter Virtual Engagement Center 19 Anixter UniversitySM 19 Lighting Application Improvement 19 Improved Network Capacity in Large Active Lighting Networks 19 Single-Network Multi-Facility Lighting System Management 20 The Green Grid and the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency ENERGY STAR Data Center Program 20 Anixter Employee Education 20 Anti-Corruption Principles 21 Anti-Corruption Policy 21 Anti-Corruption Accomplishments 21 About Anixter 22 Anixter International Page 3 of 22 2012 Communication on Progress Human Rights Principles Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Human Rights Policies Anixter’s commitment to human rights is made clear in our Global Business Ethics and Conduct Policy. This policy is endorsed by Bob Eck, President and Chief Executive Officer, and Sam Zell, Chairman of the Board. This policy clearly states Anixter is committed to treating all employees fairly, courteously, respectfully and with dignity. This policy also states that Anixter complies with all employment laws and regulations wherever it operates and will not tolerate unlawful discrimination of any kind. Anixter is committed to a workplace that is free from demeaning, intimidating, offensive, abusive or harassing behavior. Anixter protects human rights and prevents human rights abuse through its: Human Rights Policy Global Business Ethics and Conduct Policy Anti-Harassment Policy Anti-Retaliation Policy Workplace Violence and Response Policy Reaffirmation of Policy on Confidentiality Employee Personal Data Protection Policy and Notice Global Health and Safety Policy Non-Discrimination in Employment and Personnel Practices Business Integrity Help Line and other communication mechanisms. All human rights policies and programs are administered by Anixter’s Executive Compliance Committee, Chief Compliance Officer, Regional Compliance Officers and the Human Resources and Internal Audit organizations. Anixter is committed to the participation of certified minority, women-owned and disabled veteran business enterprises. Anixter will use reasonable efforts to provide opportunities whenever practical for subcontracting, purchasing or reselling, teaming arrangements and mentor-protégé programs. Anixter International Page 4 of 22 2012 Communication on Progress Human Rights Accomplishments In accordance with laws and regulations and consistent with its values, Anixter has recently added several formal mechanisms for employees to air grievances and to file complaints without fear of reprisal. Anixter employees can confidentially talk to management, Chief Compliance Officer, Regional Compliance Officers, Human Resources, Internal Audit and/or the Legal Department. Employees can also contact a third party via the Anixter Business Integrity Help Line to report concerns by telephone, email or a Web portal, anonymously if desired. Anixter maintains a database of employee complaints and grievances received by the Business Integrity Help Line. Concerns raised through the help line are tracked by Anixter’s Chief Compliance Officer. Anixter’s President and Chief Executive Officer and Vice President of Human Resources periodically communicate to global employees to reinforce training and polices that pertain to all aspects of human rights and corporate responsibility. Anixter has published documents to reaffirm its anti-harassment, anti-retaliation and equal employment opportunity policies. Anixter is continually advancing human rights policies and practices by regularly engaging with experts in the field and with peers. Anixter created a Human Rights policy, guided by the article of The United Nations’ Universal Declaration of Human Rights. Anixter has been successfully partnering and providing various business opportunities to certified minority, women-owned and disabled veteran business enterprises since 1999. Over the last four quarters, Anixter has averaged over 18 percent of its U.S. purchases through certified minority, women-owned and disabled veteran business enterprises. Workplace Safety Policies Anixter protects human rights and prevents workplace abuse through its: Global Health and Safety Policy Ongoing location management training on Global Health and Safety Policy compliance Electronic notification and mandatory training for staff when Anixter’s Global Health and Safety Policy is modified Business Integrity Help Line and other communication mechanisms. Anixter International Page 5 of 22 2012 Communication on Progress Anixter is committed to providing employees with a safe and healthy work environment. Anixter’s goal is zero accidents. This goal inspires our global Health, Safety and Environmental (HS&E) teams to continuously educate and train employees on the latest developments in workplace and equipment safety. Workplace Safety Accomplishments It is now standard procedure that Anixter’s Executive Board includes HS&E performance reviews in all meetings. This topic is also being included in agendas in various management and team meetings around the world. Anixter’s Global Health and Safety Program is verified through independent auditors for compliance to national and local legislation worldwide and Anixter’s corporate business principles. Continuing progress from last year, Anixter’s Global Health and Safety Program has achieved: Coverage in five continents Policy translation into seven languages Distribution of 48 compliance training reinforcement newsletters to staff 905 compliance site audits 2,207 employee compliance trainings 2,321 written training programs per federal, state or local regulations 4,853 closed HS&E actions. Anixter International Page 6 of 22 2012 Communication on Progress Labor Principles Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor; Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labor; and Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Labor Policies Anixter supports and upholds the elimination of discriminatory practices with respect to employment and occupation. Anixter promotes and embraces diversity in all aspects of its business operations. Anixter further supports the elimination of all forms of forced, bonded or compulsory labor as well as the freedom of association and the right to choose a collective bargaining representative if desired. Anixter also provides a safe and healthy working environment for all employees. Anixter condemns all forms of child exploitation and supports the elimination of exploitative child labor. Anixter protects its labor policies and practices through: Non-discrimination in employment and personnel practices Anti-Harassment Policy Anti-Retaliation Policy Workplace Violence and Response Policy Annual compensation benchmarking analysis Competitive employee benefit programs Anixter Global Business Ethics and Conduct Policy Employee notices of right to join or form unions for purposes of collective bargaining, if desired Global Health and Safety Policy. Human rights policies and programs are administered by Anixter’s Executive Compliance Committee, Geographic Regional Compliance Officers and the Human Resources and Internal Audit organizations. Anixter International Page 7 of 22 2012 Communication on Progress Labor Accomplishments In accordance with laws and regulations, and consistent with its values, Anixter has recently added several formal mechanisms for employees to air grievances and to file complaints without fear of reprisal. Anixter employees can confidentially talk to their management, Chief Compliance Officer, Regional Compliance Officers, Human Resources, Internal Audit and/or the Legal Department. Employees can also use the Business Integrity Help Line. Anixter maintains a database of employee complaints and grievances received by the Business Integrity Help Line. Concerns raised through the help line are tracked by Anixter’s Chief Compliance Officer. Anixter’s Fasteners division enhanced its existing on-site Supplier Audit Checklist to further screen for child labor. Anixter International Page 8 of 22 2012 Communication on Progress Environmental Principles Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Environmental Product Compliance Policy Anixter is committed to providing products that meet all environmental product compliance laws and regulations in the countries where we conduct business. Environmental Product Compliance Accomplishments Anixter purchased and installed a global product management system that when fully operational will monitor and provide product compliance reports listing the material compounds contained in products stocked and sold through Anixter’s global distribution network. Anixter’s global product management system will: Endeavor to comply with EU REACH (Registration, Evaluation, Authorization and Restriction of Chemicals), RoHS (Restriction of Hazardous Substances Directive), WEEE (Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment) as well as the Battery Waste and Packaging Waste Directives Endeavor to comply with additional EU or other international regulations when enacted Monitor targeted material compounds and their environmental regulations around the world Become the central repository for all supplier-provided material compound compliance data and regulatory reports Provide supplier compliance documentation to facilitate international sales transactions Contain both supplier and customer portals that will allow for complete data exchange among all parties Continue to maintain updated product compliance information as regulations and suppliers change. Anixter has begun working with suppliers to load compliant data into the system and will continue to do so through 2013. Anixter International Page 9 of 22 2012 Communication on Progress Corporate Sustainability Policy Anixter’s Corporate Sustainability program seeks to continuously improve business processes to control and reduce the impact associated with its targeted environmental aspects of Energy, Waste, Materials and Natural Resources, and Transportation. By targeting measurable results within each environmental aspect combined with using A Sustainable PathSM Approach, which focuses on the economic, environmental and social impacts of the organization, Anixter balances corporate social responsibility and return on investment. The Corporate Sustainability program’s goal is to control and reduce: Energy through the use of technology Waste by capitalizing on opportunities to reduce, reuse and recycle Materials and Natural Resources by increasing recycled content in consumables while simultaneously pursing source reduction strategies Transportation emissions by using outsourced third-party carriers and internal fleet vehicles that operate in the most environmentally efficient manner possible. Corporate Sustainability Accomplishments Energy Accomplishments Anixter’s 142,000-square-foot Willebroek, Belgium, facility successfully started using solar energy from rooftop solar panels. This is the first Anixter location to begin using renewable energy as a power source. By using solar energy to operate roughly 50 percent of the facility, Anixter is targeting a reduction of non-renewable electricity consumption of 14.5 percent annually. Anixter began construction on a new 61,000-square-foot building annex next to its corporate headquarters in the Chicago suburb of Glenview. The building is being built to the U.S. Green Building Council LEED® (Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design) specifications, with formal LEED certification expected after occupancy. Once officially LEED certified, the Glenview annex will become Anixter’s third North American facility to obtain certification to LEED standards. Anixter obtained LEED Silver certification for its 195,000-square-foot Edmonton, Alberta, facility in 2011 and the 457,000-square-foot Alsip, IL, building was LEED certified in 2007. Additional buildings are under consideration for LEED certification. Anixter International Page 10 of 22 2012 Communication on Progress Anixter successfully installed six energy-monitoring systems that control and schedule the heating, ventilation and air conditioning systems (HVAC). By using statistical analysis to reduce operational and maintenance costs, these systems improve energy efficiency by monitoring the health of the HVAC systems. Anixter now has a total of 20 energy-monitoring systems installed across North America. As a result of these systems being installed, Anixter has reduced preventative maintenance HVAC inspections by 50 percent since 2011. To better control the lighting conditions within buildings and to reduce electricity costs, Anixter successfully installed 12 energy-efficient lighting systems in buildings located across North America and Europe. Depending upon the duration of lease terms, lighting systems can range from advanced systems that can include automatic scheduling, intensity-controlled ballasts and motion control sensors to more simplistic systems that only use T8/T5 fixtures. Anixter now operates 51 buildings around the world that are using energy-efficient lighting control systems. Advanced lighting control systems typically reduce annual lighting electrical consumption between 40 to 60 percent. Anixter began testing an energy management software system that tracks costs, consumption, carbon emissions and U.S. EPA ENERGY STAR performance ratings in four Illinois buildings whose combined footprint exceeds 779,200 square feet of space. Testing of this system and possibly others will continue in 2013. As a result of server consolidation and virtualization implemented over the last few years, Anixter has successfully reduced the number of physical servers in its data center by more than 70 percent. The corresponding decrease in data center cooling requirements enables Anixter to repurpose one of its computer room air conditioners as a backup. Anixter expects an 8 percent decrease in annual electricity consumption on the air conditioning data center circuit. Waste Accomplishments Anixter continues to reduce landfill waste, lower operating costs and increase recycling tonnage by outsourcing various disposal services to specialized waste brokers. Anixter successfully outsourced six additional sites in the U.K., bringing the total international locations outsourcing waste services to 139. Anixter continues to successfully compile waste stream reports that identify annual landfill and recycling tonnage projections for various global locations. Progress continues to be made adding additional locations and enhancing reporting capabilities. By analyzing building waste stream reports, Anixter successfully implemented 26 new global recycling programs that will divert more Anixter International Page 11 of 22 2012 Communication on Progress than 776,000 lb. of cardboard, wood, metal, plastic, paper and other mixed recyclables from landfills annually. The vast majority of these new recycling programs have lowered overall annual waste expenses and, depending on the commodity, generate monthly rebates. Anixter appointed two electronic waste recycling organizations to effectively recycle and dispose of all the electronic waste for the entire Asia Pacific region. Anixter successfully recycled more than 52,000 lb. of scrap electronics globally. Anixter’s North American Supply Chain Solutions organization successfully diverted and recycled more than 15,000 lb. of packaging waste from customers’ job sites. Anixter’s Supply Chain Solutions provide customers with various value-added services such as the kitting of multiple line items into a single finished good part number to ease ordering and improve job site receiving and the pre-assembling of racks, cabinets and cameras prior to shipping to improve job site productivity and lower overall project costs. By using Anixter’s Supply Chain Solutions’ READY! Deployment Services, customers can obtain documentation that will help them toward earning two possible LEED points for job site waste diversion. Anixter continues to expand the use of its reusable Parapull wooden paralleling reels across 33 North American locations. The Anixter-designed Parapull reels accommodate various cut-to-length cables of the same gauge onto a single multi-chambered reel. Customers using a single Parapull reel can eliminate between two to four individual wooden cable reels on a job site, which reduces shipping and handling costs while increasing contractor productivity. Because each Parapull reel is reused multiple times, their ongoing use helps preserve natural resources while eliminating empty reel disposal costs and waste from job sites, which frequently ends up in landfills. Over the last 12 months, Anixter shipped more than 2,700 reusable Parapull reels to customers across North America. Anixter continues to expand its cut-to-length cable services, which is offered from over 100 global locations. By having Anixter cut cable to the exact length required, job site cable waste is basically eliminated. In addition, job site costs are reduced as the need to purchase, cut and control master cable reels and resulting short cable lengths or left over cable no longer exists. Over the last 12 months, Anixter processed more than 1,388,000 custom cable cuts for its global customers. Anixter International Page 12 of 22 2012 Communication on Progress Materials and Natural Resources Accomplishments To increase operational efficiencies globally, Anixter is deploying a new warehouse management system as part of its next generation global supply chain system. The new warehouse management system was piloted in 2012 and will be implemented in the largest U.S. warehouses in 2013 and expand to global locations in 2014. The system uses new technologies that will significantly reduce paper and printing waste generated throughout the entire warehouse order processing cycle, while further improving global operational efficiencies. Anixter has successfully implemented a new North American paperless travel and expense management system that will eliminate more than 341,000 pieces of paper from employee expense reports annually. This reduction in paper will prevent about 41 trees 6 to 8 inches in diameter and 40 feet tall from being harvested annually.* Around the world, Anixter continues to successfully cancel or convert various system generated reports that automatically print at predetermined intervals to view-only. The results attained from this effort thus far will eliminate the consumption of more than 792,000 sheets of paper annually. This reduction in paper will prevent about 96 trees 6 to 8 inches in diameter and 40 feet tall from being harvested annually.* Anixter’s Canadian locations successfully transitioned from using 100 percent virgin copier paper to a paper that contains 30 percent recycled content. This reduction in virgin paper will prevent about 210 trees 6 to 8 inches in diameter and 40-ft. tall from being harvested annually.* Anixter has successfully converted all global locations to exclusively use remanufactured toner cartridges for non-production printers, where this option is available. By converting to remanufactured printer toner cartridges, Anixter reduces toner costs by 30 to 60 percent and eliminates fossil fuel consumption and emissions required for new cartridge manufacturing. Anixter also recycles the empty cartridges preventing thousands of pounds of plastic and metal from entering landfills annually. Anixter successfully began offering electrical contractors the option of receiving cut to length cable on reusable metal ParaSpin reels that have five independent spinning chambers to pull from. Customers using a single ParaSpin reel can eliminate four individual wooden cable reels on a job site, which reduces shipping and handling costs while increasing contractor productivity. As the ParaSpin reel completely Anixter International Page 13 of 22 2012 Communication on Progress eliminates the use of wood and is reusable, natural resources are preserved and cable reel waste and disposal costs are eliminated at the job site. Over the last 12 months, eight U.S. Anixter locations shipped over 420 reusable ParaSpin reels to customers. Anixter continues to make progress in various source reduction initiatives surrounding consumables used within warehouses. For example, Anixter’s U.S. operations used more than 1.7 million pounds of corrugated boxes that contain between 40 to 55 percent recycled content. In addition, Anixter’s largest U.S. warehouses have successfully reduced packing paper consumption by 14 percent by transitioning from a 2-ply to 1-ply packing paper that contains roughly 40 percent recycled content. Anixter’s eBusiness offerings allow global customers and suppliers the ability to seamlessly process a vast array of business transactions with Anixter in a secure and paperless environment. Highlights include the following: Anixter processed more than 1,861,300 global EDI transactions of which 965,500, or roughly 52 percent, directly resulted in the elimination of a paper transaction such as an invoice, purchase order or forecast. Anixter communicates extensively with various online procurement platforms, marketplaces and private exchanges and successfully processed more than 75,600 paperless invoice transactions through these networks. Anixter’s email invoice and statement program successfully eliminated more than 291,000 paper invoices from 7,200 North American customer accounts. The above eBusiness paperless transactions prevented about 161 trees 6 to 8 inches in diameter and 40 feet tall from being harvested.* Anixter successfully expanded the functionality of its existing software to allow European buyers the option of emailing PDF purchase orders to suppliers directly, thereby eliminating the need to print, scan and email PDF files or fax orders. Based on initial data, this change will eliminate the consumption of more than 108,400 sheets of paper annually by Anixter’s European buyers in addition to allowing recipient suppliers to do the same. This reduction in paper will prevent about 13 trees 6 to 8 inches in diameter and 40 feet tall from being harvested annually.* Additional global buyers will receive this capability in 2013. Anixter continues to successfully increase the green attributes contained within the office supplies consumed. Green attributes can include, but are not limited to, office supplies that contain recycled, plant-based or remanufactured content, sourced from responsible forestry programs or are refillable. For example, Anixter’s Canadian business successfully increased the quantity of the green office supplies ordered by 14 percent from 2011. Anixter Canada now spends 55 percent of its total office supply expense on green items, which is a 10 percent increase from 2011. Anixter International Page 14 of 22 2012 Communication on Progress Four Anixter U.S. locations have successfully attained Green Guard Certification for Indoor Air Quality by using certified green cleaning products and janitorial crews trained to use them. These four locations also converted to using coreless toilet paper that helps save trees by eliminating cardboard tube waste. Even though Anixter’s global distribution operations are not water intensive, the company does seek to conserve water through the installation of water-efficient fixtures in new buildings and select existing building retrofits. This year, Anixter installed eco-friendly fixtures in five North American buildings. * According to the Environmental Paper Network’s Paper Calculator. Transportation Accomplishments Anixter’s Fasteners division successfully partnered with a subsidiary of a third-party transportation provider that Anixter has used for 19 years to manage all U.S. and Canadian inbound transportation from more than 1,500 suppliers. Through this service, Anixter has increased material consolidations, reduced operating expenses and increased material visibility from purchase order placement through final delivery. This program has reduced Anixter Fasteners’ inbound freight costs by more than 6% and helps to indirectly lower overall carbon emissions by reducing the amount of trucks needed to move materials. Anixter has successfully installed more than 100 GPS guidance systems in U.K. and U.S. fleet trucks and vans to help increase fuel economy and improve driver productivity. Due to developing technologies for increasing fuel efficiency, Anixter chooses its annual North American fleet replacement vehicles on overall miles per gallon. Out of the 175 new vehicles ordered for the 2012 model year, 114 have a highway rating of 28 miles per gallon and 10 are rated at 36 miles per gallon. In 2011, Anixter improved the fuel economy of its U.S. car fleet by an average of 1 mile per gallon, which eliminated the consumption of more than 14,940 gallons of gasoline. In 2012, Anixter further increased fuel economy by 0.179 miles per gallon, eliminating an additional 2,600 gallons of gasoline from being consumed during the year. More than 94 percent of Anixter’s preferred U.S. and international transportation spend is with U.S. Environmental Protection Agency’s certified SmartWay carriers for product shipped into and out of the U.S. SmartWay carriers focus upon reducing emissions and fuel consumption. Anixter has successfully implemented a No Idling program within all global warehouse locations. Truck Anixter International Page 15 of 22 2012 Communication on Progress drivers are required to turn off their engines while awaiting materials to be loaded or unloaded from their vehicles. Anixter’s global Transportation Managers notified all partner carriers by email of Anixter’s new program prior to implementation and attached a copy of Anixter’s No Idling Policy. To maintain policy awareness, Anixter-designed No Idling signs were placed on all driver entrance doors as well as in select yard and loading dock locations. Anixter’s No Idling Program seeks to improve air quality, reduce carbon emissions and increase safety. Advancing Sustainability and Corporate Responsibility Released in early 2012, Anixter’s Corporate Sustainability program was highlighted in Anixter’s 2011 Annual Report in the “Why We Are Different” section under Corporate Responsibility and was highlighted by Robert J. Eck, Anixter’s President and CEO, in the 2011 annual results video. Both are posted on Anixter’s website. Anixter’s Corporate Sustainability program and highlights of select environmental accomplishments were made public on Anixter’s redesigned external website. http://www.anixter.com/north-america/us/en/about-us/sustainability.html Anixter’s Corporate Sustainability internal intranet site was redesigned to highlight to employees the ongoing organizational accomplishments attained within each of the four targeted environmental aspects of Energy, Waste, Materials and Natural Resources, and Transportation. The site also provides suggestions to employees on what they can do each day to make a difference within each environmental aspect. An email containing the link to the new site was sent to more than 8,200 Anixter employees in recognition of Earth Day 2012. A global email titled “Flip the Switch for a Cause” was sent to more than 8,200 Anixter employees to create environmental awareness and ask for local participation in switching off residential lights for an hour during Earth Hour 2012. Features on the Corporate Sustainability program have been included in various editions of Anixter’s internal newsletter called Blue Notes. Blues Notes is sent to more than 8,200 Anixter employees several times a year. Anixter recertified two U.K. sites' environmental management systems to the ISO 14001:2004 standard. Anixter currently operates 43 global locations certified to this standard. Anixter’s Fasteners division enhanced their existing on-site Supplier Audit Checklist and expanded screening for sound environmental programs and controls. To further demonstrate Anixter’s organizational commitment to Corporate Sustainability to staff, the program’s logo A Sustainable PathSM became the default background image on all new and reimaged employee computers. Anixter International Page 16 of 22 2012 Communication on Progress Anixter believes it is important to support the global communities where our employees live and where we conduct business. To support employees’ ongoing efforts and to further encourage charitable endeavors, Anixter created the Anixter Cares program. The Anixter Cares program allows for matching gifts to the Red Cross, time off to volunteer at nonprofit organizations, and company matching gifts to higher education within the U.S. and Canada. Recent examples include the following: A total of 16 Anixter employees from two Illinois locations volunteered their time and partnered with Junior Achievement of Chicago to present to kindergarten through second grade students the values of self, family and community at a local elementary school. Anixter employees immediately came together to help those affected by Hurricane Sandy through monetary donations. Through the Anixter Cares program, employee funds were matched to provide the Red Cross with more than $20,000 in initial relief funds. Eleven Anixter U.S. locations started collecting empty writing instruments, such as pens, markers and highlighters, for a recycling program that generates funds for charities by recycling the writing instruments. Anixter’s Corporate Sustainability Steering Committee collectively agreed that the benefactor charity will be charity: water an organization that provides clean drinking water to those in need throughout sub-Saharan Africa and South East Asia. According to TerraCycle, Anixter’s 11 locations successfully recycled more than 1,390 empty writing instruments and generated enough funds to provide clean drinking water to 46 people for an entire year. Since starting the initial program, an additional 31 Anixter U.S. locations have joined as well as several locations in the U.K. and Canada. More than 140 Anixter employees from five Chicagoland locations participated in the Teaming Up For a Greener Tomorrow, a collaboration between the JPMorgan Chase Corporate Challenge Series and JPMorgan Chase’s Office of Environmental Affairs. Event proceeds went to the nonprofit organization Chicago Run and the American Red Cross of Greater Chicago. Anixter International Page 17 of 22 2012 Communication on Progress Anixter employees around the world donate their time and resources to support various charitable causes. The employees at Anixter’s headquarters located in Glenview, IL, completed several volunteering activities in 2012. The following are some highlights of these activities: Two LifeSource blood drives where 65 employees donated blood that will help save or treat more than 150 people Share Your Soles received 77 pairs of used athletic shoes that it will redistribute to children and adults located in the most impoverished areas of the world More than 1,300 lb. of food and $2,500 donated to the Greater Chicago Food Depository Several large boxes of toys and more than $3,400 donated to the U.S. Marine Corps Toys for Tots program. Development and Diffusion of Environmentally Friendly Technologies Anixter welcomes the opportunity to leverage its global leadership position to advance environmentally friendly technologies to further support our customers, strategic partners and internal operations. Anixter ipAssuredSM: Data Center HealthCheckSM Developed and tested by Anixter's Infrastructure Solutions LabSM, Anixter ipAssured is a program that simplifies infrastructure choices for data center and security applications. Through product categorization, a customer can recognize up to 55 percent energy savings by deploying state-of-the-art infrastructure. A subcomponent of Anixter’s ipAssured program is the Data Center HealthCheck. Under this program, Anixter’s global Technical Services Group will evaluate the current data center operations of existing and potential customers looking for energy savings using industry best practices as well documented standards of compliance such as IEEE and TIA. Anixter’s evaluation will provide recommendations to improve operational efficiency, which often times can bring a 4 to12 percent reduction in energy consumption. Anixter completed more than 300 Data Center HealthChecks in 2012. Anixter International Page 18 of 22 2012 Communication on Progress Anixter Virtual Engagement Center Anixter offers seminars using a highly interactive and social online tool to connect customers with manufacturer partners across the globe. Traditionally, seminars were held in different cities and around the world requiring customers and manufacturers to be at the same physical location at the same time. Moving to a virtual environment saves participants both time and expenses, while eliminating the environmental impact associated with traveling. In 2012, more than 1,000 registrants have entered Anixter’s Virtual Engagement Center to keep pace with leading edge industry trends and products all from the convenience of their homes or offices. Anixter UniversitySM Anixter creates courses in a university-like setting for customers to evaluate data center energy consumption. Course examples include Power Distribution and Thermal Management. Topics covered include, but are not limited to, energy-efficient design, metering and monitoring of power using the PUE metric established by The Green Grid and how best to separate hot exhaust air from chilled supply air. Each year Anixter delivers more than 300 Anixter University presentations worldwide. Lighting Application Improvement Anixter’s commitment to reducing energy consumption without jeopardizing worker safety, productivity or comfort contributed to the fine tuning of a partner supplier’s state-of-the-art lighting application. Through the use of the application within Anixter facilities, Anixter helped the supplier change the product’s response to motion sensor vacancy. This product revision is now regularly used in a large percentage of the supplier’s ongoing projects. Improved Network Capacity in Large Active Lighting Networks Based upon a lighting design used within a large Anixter U.S. facility, Anixter’s configuration unexpectedly pushed the supplier’s entire network architecture to its maximum and created an unacceptable amount of system latency. The resulting supplier solution developed with Anixter input, now allows for the redistributing of processing power to better match the specific needs of Anixter and the supplier’s other large customers. Anixter International Page 19 of 22 2012 Communication on Progress Single-Network Multi-Facility Lighting System Management Anixter’s cutting-edge use of a central server to manage remote multi-facility lighting systems has provided Anixter’s partner lighting supplier valuable knowledge to leverage this powerful solution into other customer applications. The Green Grid and the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency ENERGY STAR Data Center Program Anixter is a contributor to industry-recognized leaders for data center efficiency. Through Anixter-created videos and seminars, Anixter helps these institutions further strengthen their commitment to increasing energy-efficient data centers. Anixter Employee Education Anixter uses an electronic delivery model for much of its learning and development programs. Web-based virtual workshops, classes, webinars, customer trade shows, surveys and e-courses are delivered through a global Learning Management System (LMS). Anixter’s LMS helps reduce carbon emissions by eliminating employee travel and preserves natural resources as printed training materials are eliminated. Over the last 12 months, more than 65,800 individual courses were successfully completed by Anixter’s global employees. Anixter International Page 20 of 22 2012 Communication on Progress Anti-Corruption Principles Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Anti-Corruption Policy Anixter has an Anti-Bribery Policy and expects all employees and suppliers to comply with it. Anti-Corruption Accomplishments Anixter distributed its Anti-Bribery Policy to all employees worldwide. Approximately 8,240 employees worldwide were required to participate in Anixter’s online training on anti-bribery. All employees have acknowledged Anixter’s Global Business Ethics & Conduct Policy and completed an online course as required. The following employees were certified as compliant with the Global Business Ethics & Conduct Policy and the Global Anti-Bribery Policies: all executives and their assistants; vice presidents; managers and supervisors; all members of the Legal, Internal Audit, Tax, Corporate Accounting, Finance, Credit, Treasury, HR, International Transactions, IT Security departments; IS programmers, managers and team leads; and outside and inside sales staff. Anixter’s Business Integrity Helpline provides employees and third parties with the means to report confidentially and anonymously (where allowed by local law) by telephone or online any potential violations of law or Company policy. Anixter has a process for investigating and approving third parties based on risk analysis. Anixter required its third-party risk analysis approval process to be used by all locations worldwide. Anixter is in the final stages of completing a third-party compliance policy. Anixter International Page 21 of 22 2012 Communication on Progress About Anixter Anixter International is a leading global distributor of communication and security products, electrical and electronic wire and cable, fasteners and other small parts. The company adds value to the distribution process by providing its customers access to 1) innovative inventory management programs; 2) more than 450,000 products and over $1 billion in inventory; 3) approximately 220 warehouses with 7 million square feet of space; and 4) locations in over 260 cities in more than 50 countries. Founded in 1957 and headquartered near Chicago, Anixter trades on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol AXE. For more information on Anixter, please visit anixter.com Anixter International Page 22 of 22 2012 Communication on Progress
