CSG 2011 Corporate Social Responsibility Report CSG lights up every household with heart and responsibility. Honorary Staff Moving CSG Honorary Group Moving CSG Search Add: NO.6 Huasui Road, Zhujiang Xincheng,Guangzhou,P.R.China,510623 Corporate Social Responsibility Report P. C: 510623 Te l : 020-38121958 Fax: 020-38865670 Web: www.csg.cn Eco-paper printed NO 1 Guangdong, Yunnan, Guizhou Power Grid ranked No 1 in customer satisfaction surveys conducted by the government and independent third-party 87.6 minutes 87.6 minutes decrease of SAIDI compared to that of 2010 A Myriad of Twinkling Lights,Great Rapport of CSG 292 million Carbon Dioxide emission reduction of 292 million tons tons achieved from upstream and downstream, compared to that of year 2010 43800 households Electricity supply to 43,800 rural households who had no access to utility service in the past 149 th Ranked the 149th in the Fortune 500 list Moving 7 places up in the list The Main Stadium of Shenzhen 26th Summer Universiade Framework of Responsibility Contents Core value represents a company’s sustaining and fundamental belief and embodies a company’s basic philosophy. CSG has identified its core value as “A Myriad of Twinkling Lights, Great Rapport of CSG”. The core value reflects 01 CSG’s quality service to its clients, care to its employees, dedication to environment protection and corporate Board Chairman's Speech responsibilities to communities. In essence, the core value interprets CSG’s accountability to every stakeholder, including: governments, clients, employees, partners, environment, communities and the public. CSG solemnly pledges: we shall take consideration of community and environment in our decision making process, we shall shoulder responsibilities of social and environment impact, we shall be transparent and ethical, and About Us 03 observe laws, regulations and international code of practice, we shall incorporate social responsibility into our Mid and Long Term Development Strategy operation. We shall establish a harmonious and interactive relationship with our stakeholders. We believe that our Responsibility commitment shall not fail the concern of and meet the expectation from the stakeholders. Our commitment shall create value, win trust and respect and facilitate our own growth and sustainable development of the society. 13 A Myriad of Twinkling Lights, Great Rapport of CSG Electric Power Supply CSG understands its role is to deliver utility From corporate strategy level, CSG takes The Core Value represents CSG’s understanding services, and CSG’s practices and policies are the initiative to shoulder corporate social of corporate responsibilities and highlights CSG’s based on the nature of being of a utility service provider. responsibilities (CSR). CSR is the driving force of CSG’s effort to surmount tough challenges and embodies CSG’s corporate value. accountable image . Economic Performance 33 Power Supply Responsibility Economic Performance Responsibility Energy Saving and To deliver a safe power supply: To guarantee a safe, stable, reliable and quality power supply for To gain a sound economic performance: CSG’s fundamental responsibilities are to strictly carry out Environmental Protection 41 the sustainable development of the economic the national policy on tariff, pay special attention to society is CSG’s core responsibility. To maintain management, ensure security, appreciation, cost public security and public interests in confronting reduction and efficiency enhancement of state-owned serious and unexpected natural disaster is CSG’s assets, and prioritize social benefit . political responsibility. Se cu rving stomer Social Harmony 57 bo uting to the so ring a ut staff ntrib cie Ca A Myriad of Twinkling Lights Co Great Rapport of CSG t y H l op op e eo f C S G pe Responsibility Management To promote social harmony: we are committed to universal power service. CSG’s special responsibility Outlook of 2012 The 3rd Party Endorsement 69 is to facilitate coordinated development between To save energy and protect the environment: CSG’s cities and the rural areas. To cooperate with responsibilities are to build a green power grid, to stakeholders for a win-win situation is the shared facilitate energy saving and emission reduction and to responsibility of CSG and all sectors of the facilitate a coordinated and sustainable development of GRI Index 77 community. enterprise, community and environment. United National Global Compact Performance About This Report key performance index table Social Harmony Responsibility Environment Protection Responsibility Innovative reporting model Board Chairman's Speech I sincerely hope that the report will better the whole community’s understanding of CSG and have their support of the company’s reform and development. Year 2011 marked the first year in the 12th Five-YearPlan on National Economy and Social Development (hereinafter to be CSG has facilitated power grid optimizied development in a systematic way. CSG has completed amendments to CSG 12th referred as 12th Five-YearPlan), and the first year of CSG Mid-to-Long Term Development Strategy. The past year witnessed Five-Year-Plan, and has promulgated special plan on secondary system, fixed assets investment, energy saving and emission complex and volatile economic situation, frequent natural disaster outbreaks and severe power shortages. Under the challenges reduction, science and technology innovation, and safety production. In 2011, CSG invested RMB69.7 billion on grid construction, and hardship, CSG has adhered to overarching principle and policies promulgated by CPC(Communist Party of China) and the and put 11 key projects into operation. Key projects including Xiluodu and Nuozhadu DC Power Transmission to Guangdong Project State Council, and has abided by sustainable development and facilitation of economic development transition by giving and Pumped Storage Station in Shenzhen has been approved and has started official construction, Pumped Storage Station in priority to corporate management capacity enhancement, striving for the best compaign, systematic and standardized Huizhou started full-scale operation, 500Kv Guishan Substation in Guangdong was awarded “Luban Award” (the most prestigious management. CSG has made positive achievement for social and economic development of the five provinces and regions. award in engineering construction). CSG has retrofitted and upgraded the rural grid, investing RMB 21.3 billion to develop county level power grid, providing electricity for the first time to 11 administrative villages with 43,800 households. CSG has surmounted a number of hardships and has tried every effort to deliver power supply. Confronted by the most challenging power supply and demand situations in the past decade, CSG has taken the initiative to report to ministries, CSG upholds human-oriented management and strives to build the company as the best employer. CSG has always dedicated commissions at the central government level, and communicate with CPCs and governments at provincial/regional level under to sound working environment and has made every effort to ensure employees’ occupational health and safety. CSG has the guiding principle of “Guarantee a safe power supply, guarantee domestic power supply, guarantee people’s livelihood, and reinforced talent pool construction and has initiated “Six Projects”. In talent selection, the company has advocated fair, guarantee key clients”. The company has defeated natural disasters, including ice sleet disaster in Guizhou, earthquake in transparent and open principle, and has attached priority to fostering young talents and competitive selection process and job Yingjiang Yunnan, Nesat and Nalgae severe typhoon attack. CSG has delivered safe power supply to significant events, rotation.CSG has phased in position management instead of identity management to offer an open and fair career path for including Shenzhen Universiade, National Ethnic Games, Boao Forum, to name just a few. CSG’s painstaking efforts have been employees. The company advocates commitment spirit and encourages sense of happiness from work. CSG has conducted “ paid back: with relative minor power increase, CSG ‘s power supply service has supported stable and reasonable fast economic Happy CSG” campaign to practice psychological mentoring and spiritual motivation, and has established living subsidy growth in the five provinces/region, and achieved“win-win-win” situations to every stakeholder (government, power plants, mechanism for retired employees in need to ensure their living quality. and clients) In 2011, CSG promoted its corporate social responsibility work. Events like “Social Responsibility Day” bettered communication CSG has always been committed to serving the community and leveraged the striving for the best compaign to constantly improve and exchanges with stakeholders and were well received by the community. CSG’s social responsibility practice has attracted its service. The company adheres to the core value and attaches high priority to an orderly and effective power supply with an attention and won recognition and support from the community and the SASAC. aim to constantly enhance customer service quality. In total, 3,168 “Serve the community” teams have been established to address urgent concerns of the community. For years, CSG’s power supply service quality has been ranking top in public survey Year 2012 marks a year of significance in China’s development process. 2012 shall witness the 18th Plenary Session of CPC. in Guangdong and Yunnan province, and has always been the top ranking company in public survey in other provinces/regions. New situations have created new opportunities and requirements for the company’s opportunity and challenges. We will adhere to “stable development” principle, and take extensive specific measures to implement Harmonious Development Low carbon development for a green development platform. CSG has reinforced “Green Action” and has given full play to its Strategy for Central Enterprise in the 12 Five-year-Period, and CSG’s company strategy and try every effort to enhance guiding and coordination role in energy saving and emission reduction campaign in upstream and downstream and has always corporate sustainable development, service economic and social development of the five provinces /region and deliver our committed to development of a low carbon community. CSG has rolled out energy saving power generation dispatching solemn pledge (that is: ensure safety, ensure power supply and ensure stability) grid-wide, energy power consumption of coal-fired power units have achieved 4 grams/KWh, equivalent to saving of 2.27million tons of standard coal. The company continues to improve lean management for line loss; in 2011, the overall line CSG shall abide by our solemn promise of social responsibility and accountable operation. We will constantly improve our work loss across the grid was 5.35%, recording 0.93% line loss improvement than the year of 2010. CSG has been actively supporting and hope to live up to the requirement and expectation of stakeholders in a sincere, objective and transparent way. We hope this the development of the electric car sector, and established its 1st electric car battery change experience center in Guangzhou. report will better the communication and trust between the CSG and all stakeholders. Let’s join effort to create a better future. CSG has promoted Energy Management Contract (EMC), and in 2011, under CSG’s assistance, its clients achieved 1.975TWh energy saving. The company was awarded the title of “Excellent Central Enterprise in Energy saving and Emission Reduction Campaign in the 11th Five-Year-Plan period”. 01 A Myriad of Twinkling Lights, Great Rapport of CSG Board Chairman's Speech 02 About Us Corporate Governance Management CSG is a state-owned backbone company. In accordance with the Company Law and the requirements of the State-owned Assets Supervision and Administration Commission of the State Council, CSG has established a modern corporate Governance structure consisting of board of directors and operation management. Board of directors plays a core role in corporate governance. The board of directors exercises administration in accordance with Articles of Association and continuously perfects its operation mechanisms to guarantee the efficient, standard and orderly operation. Service-oriented, operation-based; conglomeration-operation, integrated management are the CSG’s strategic orientation. CSG specifies decision making power and procedures, maintains a sound check and balance. CSG has always been committed to legal compliance of listed company by practicing a stringent regulation, procedures and operation. CSG is dedicated to a highly effective operation and state asset certainty and Zhao Jianguo Zhong Jun appreciation. Board Chairman Board Director President Structure of Organization CSG headquarter has 20 departments, 1 institution and 4 branches, namely, Bidding Service Center, Education Training Center, CSG EHV Power Transmission Company, CSG Power Generation Company; 8 wholly-owned subsidiaries, namely, Guangdong Power Grid Company, Guangxi Power Grid Company, Yunnan Power Grid Company, Guizhou Power Grid Company, Hainan Power Grid Company, Guangzhou Power Supply Bureau Co. Ltd, Shenzhen Power Supply Bureau Co. Ltd, and CSG International Company. Besides, CSG is the controlling shareholder of CSG Financial Company, CSG Research Institute, CSG Energy Company, Dinghe Property Insurance Co., Ltd, and CSG Media. Xiao Peng Wang Jiuling Board Director Board Director Vice President Vice President Board of Directors Board of Supervisors Management Team Assistant President, Chief Counsel, Chief Engineer , Chief Economist, Chief Information Officer Qi Dacai Sun Xiaoyi Board Director Head of Discipline Vice President and Inspection General Office Strategy and Policy Dept. Planning and Development Dept. Personnel Dept. Human Resource Dept. Finance Dept. Marketing Dept. Operation and Technology Dept. Infrastructure Dept. Materials Dept. Information Dept. Safety Supervision Dept. Rural Electricity Administration Dept. International Cooperation Dept. Audit Dept. Legal Dept. Inspection Bureau Party Work Dept Trade Union System Operation Dept. Wang Liangyou Zhang Xiaodong Vice President Vice President Affiliated Units Branch Companies Wholly-owned Subsidiaries Holding Subsidiaries CSG Power Dispatching and Control Center CSG International Limited Liability Company Bid Service Center Education and Training Center EHV Power Transmission Company CSG Power Generation Company Guangdong Power Grid Company Guangxi Power Grid Company Yunnan Power Grid Company Guizhou Power Grid Company Hainan Power Grid Company Guangzhou Power Supply Bureau Co. Ltd, Shenzhen Power Supply Bureau Co. Ltd, CSG Science Research Institute Limited Liability Company CSG Energy Co. Ltd CSG Financial Co. Ltd CSG Media Co. Ltd Dinghe Property Insurance Co., Ltd. He Xiqiang Li Wenzhong (CSG Party School, Administration College) Vice President Chief Finance officer 03 A Myriad of Twinkling Lights, Great Rapport of CSG About Us 04 Introduction of Secondary Utilities Guangdong Power Guangxi Power Yunnan Power Guizhou Power Hainan Power Grid Company Grid Company Grid Company Grid Company Grid Company China Southern Power Grid Co., Ltd. (hereinafter Guangdong Power Grid Company manages Guangxi Power Grid Company manages 20 Yunnan Power Grid Company manages 30 Guizhou Power Grid Company manages 13 Hainan Power Grid Company manages 28 referred to as CSG) was established in 2002. CSG 19 local power supply enterprises and a branch companies (14 of them are branch companies, 97 wholly-owned units (among them 9 are prefecture/city electric branch companies, 2 electric power supply invests, constructs and operates power networks in number of utilities functioning as dispatching, prefecture/city electric power supply companies and 10 holding subsidiary power supply bureaus), 83 wholly owned companies which are listed as independent communication, and design and capital bureaus), 44 wholly-owned and 1 holding companies. By the end of 2011, the total companies, 1 holding subsidiary company and 1 units, 6 wholly owned subsidaries.By the end Guangdong, Guangxi, Yunnan, Guizhou and Hainan construction. By the end of 2010, the total subsidiary company. And it is mandated to assets of the company amounted to RMB non-profitmaking institution. It is mandated to of 2011, the total assets of the company provinces and regions. The service area is of 1 million assets of the company amounted to RMB govern 1 county level electric power supply 76.7 billion with 59,769 employees and 43.46 govern 2 county-level electric power supply amounted to RMB 14.2 billion with 11,536 268.2 billion with 123,059 employees, serving enterprise. By the end of 2011, the total million clients. enterprises. By the end of 2011, the total assets employees and 8.7 million clients. square kilometers, with a population of 230million. The 32.97 million clients/households. assets of the company amounted to RMB of the company amounted to RMB 58.1 billion 47.8 billion with 52,967 employees , serving with 54,529 employees and 38 million clients. Company is headquartered in Guangzhou. 50 million clients. Guangzhou Power Shenzhen Power Supply Supply Bureau Co.Ltd Bureau Co.Ltd CSG Extra High Voltage CSG Power Guangzhou Power Supply Bureau Co.Ltd is a Shenzhen Power Supply Bureau Co.Ltd is a Power Transmission Company Generation Company spin-off company from Guangdong Power Grid spin-off company from Guangdong Power Grid Company. The company is directly managed by Company. The company is directly managed by The CSG Extra High Voltage Power Transmission The CSG Power Generation Company is in Company is responsible of construction, operation and management of inter-provincial main networks charge of construction, operation management of power plants for CSG. It has 12 and GuiZhou CSG. The company invests, constructs and operates power networks in 12 districts/county of CSG. The company invests, constructs and operates power networks in 8 districts of Guangzhou City. The service area is of 7,434 Shenzhen City (excluding Shekou). The service and the important connection lines of China divisions and 9 subordinates. The total installed Southern Power Grid. It manages 12 divisions, 3 capacity reached 6720MW (Capacity in GuiYang square kilometers. By the end of 2011, the total area is of 1,953 square kilometers. By the end of assets of the company amounted to RMB 37.6 2011, the total assets of the company amounted branches, 9 Extra High Voltage Power operation). By the end of 2011, the total assets billion with 4.38 million clients. to RMB 37.4 billion with 2.468 million clients. Transmission Bureaus and 1 Inspection and of the company amounted to RMB 18.9 billion Experiment Centers. It is mandated to govern 5 with 1,569 employees. professional companies. By the end of 2011, the KunMing total assets of the company amounted to RMB 41.8 billion with 4,431 employees. CSG Science CSG International Co., Ltd. YunNan Research Institute CSG Science Research Institute was established CSG International Co., Ltd. was established in GuangXi GuangDong in 2010, with its headquarter in Guangzhou. It is in 2007. It is in charge of operation of transnational charge of technical support to planning and (cross-border) projects of power transmission and Guangzhou construction, safe and stable operation of power transformation; investment and management of grid, research, development and implementation offshore power projects and equity, offshore ShenZhen of key science and technology projects, new power projects contracts, labour services NanNing technology development on power grids, cooperation, external technical cooperation, and research and development of new products. By import/export of new technologies, international the end of 2011, the total assets of CSG Science trade, and consulting and information service. The Research Institute amounted to RMB 110 million registered capital is RMB 200 million. By the end with 134 employees. of 2011, it had 31 employees. Dinghe Property CSG Media Co Ltd Insurance Co., Ltd. CSG Grid CSG Financial Company Synthesis Energy Co., Ltd Dinghe Property Insurance Co., Ltd. was CSG Media Co.Ltd was established in 2010, founded in 2008 with its headquarter in with registered capital of RMB60 million. HaiKou CSG Financial Company was established in CSG Grid Synthesis Energy Co., Ltd was established in 2010 Shenzhen. Its main business covers property Headquartered in Guangzhou, its business 2004 with registered capital of RMB 3 billion. Its main business covers deposits, settlement, with its headquarter in Guangzhou. The company is charged with the mission of practicing energy saving and emission HaiNan insurance, liability insurance, insurance, guarantee insurance, short-term credit scope covers: investment, management and operation of media industry, design, and reduction, low carbon economy, and facilitating smart grid health insurance and accident insurance, etc. production, publication of advertisement, loan, and entrusted loan, its financial services construction. Its business scope covers: consultancy services, cover securities investment and equity By the end of 2011, the total assets amounted advertising agent business, corporate image testing and evaluation service, technology upgrading, investment to financial institutions. By the end to RMB 3.43 billion with 877 employees planning, film and television programmes intermediary services, scientific research, technology of 2011, the total assets reached RMB 19.9 (including salesman). production. By the end of 2011, the company development, equipment research and development in relation billion with 94 employees. The company is has 107 employees. to energy saving and emission reduction ; distributed energy, headquartered in Guangzhou. investment, construction and operation of customer side energy storage projects; electric cars. By the end of 2011, the total assets reached RMB 405 million with 63 employees. 05 A Myriad of Twinkling Lights, Great Rapport of CSG About Us 06 Implementation of Mid-to-Long Term Strategy Further integrated management In Feb, 2011, CSG identified and published its Mid-to-Long Term Strategy (2011-2020). Year 2011 marks the first year of CSG CSG has furthered integrated management, and has implemented standard and unified organizational structure, business process, Mid-to-Long Term Development Strategy, CSG made every effort to meet the SASAC’s requirements on central enterprises, that management system, technical standard, operation standard, indication system and information system in areas including is, to be the leading players in China and establish itself to be first rate global company. CSG gave priority to corporate control production, power grid planning and building, marketing, human resource management, financial management, goods and management enhancement, and rolled out integrated and standardized management, facilitated in-depth internal management and information management. An integrated organization structure with four hierarchies including management reform, enhanced sustainable development capacity and therefore, laid a solid foundation for the 12th grid-province-city-county/district has initially taken shape. Business unit-based integrated business flow, management system, Five-Year-Plan period. technical standard, operation standard frameworks have established. CSG’s branches have rolled out their standardized business flow in safety production, power grid planning and construction, marketing, human resources management, material management, information management in their county-level and working teams. Publicity and implementation of the Mid and Long Term Strategy Taking initiative to A number of campaigns have staged including 88 Primary business shoulder social responsiCSG’s mission bility，Ensuring power management forum, publicity report tour, Secondary business supply: training programs and workshops to achieve a In accordance with the Working Plan on Integrated 317 systematic publicity and implementation of the Management, CSG has conducted interim assessment on Related business Mid and Long Term Strategy. The campaigns have integrated management. 88 primary businesses, 371 secondary bettered employees’ understanding of the businesses, and 865 related businesses have been highlighted, 865 strategy, and have involved staff in the reform and another 159 secondary business have been identified for process and ,therefore, have created a sound optimization, and 168 horizontal synergy issues have been Serving clients environment of strategy implementation. raised for solution. （Unit : One） CSG launched business synergy work, and has identified 25 core 19170 20000 Contributing to Caring staff A Myriad of Core value business flow and addressed 60% horizontal synergy issues Twinkling Lights, Improve strategy mechanism 15641 the society Great Rapport CSG enhanced system audit, system review and system 15000 of CSG Functional departments have made specific assessment to streamline redundant systems. In 2011, 7,390 10594 CSG people’s interpretation of the Mid and Long Term Strategy, systems were assessed and 3,529 systems were streamlined. 10000 commitment and have conducted functional strategic research 5000 on 11 sectors including power grid planning and 3204 construction, production and operation, 0 marketing, information, science and innovation, 2010 2011 2010 2011 （Year） agriculture electricity management, human System assessment System streamlining resources management, finance management, To be an internationally Strategic advanced power grid corporation material management, international business, Facilitate pilot programs in Guangzhou and Shenzhen objective with first-class service, corporate culture,etc. CGS’s branches and management and image subsidiaries have identified their roles and One of CSG’s strategic deployments is to establish Guangzhou Power Supply development priorities to compile sub-strategy at Co.Ltd and Shenzhen Power Supply Co. Ltd as the pioneers to be the first rate sub-CSG level. companies. The strategy is made to encourage Guangzhou and Shenzhen to play a constructive role in Guangdong’s stable and reasonably rapid economic growth Two directions, two styles, and two transformations Further management reform and facilitate high quality social and economic development of the two cities. Guangzhou has been positioned as the nation’s pivot city and Shenzhen is CSG adheres to clients-oriented principle, Strategic Two directions and styles: Service-oriented, operation-based; Group-style, integrated management dedicated to its “Shenzhen quality” commitment. route introduces and practices philosophy of “Full Two Transformations: power grid develops to be more intelligent, service for clients, lifecycle asset management, CSG has upgraded Guangzhou Power Supply Bureau and Shenzhen Power efficient, reliable, and green; company administration transforms from current model into a lean management-based one. and resources integrated management”. Supply Bureau under the jurisdiction of Guangdong Power Grid as Guangzhou Ceremony for the founding of Guangzhou Power Supply Management reform has improved corporate Power Supply Co.Ltd and Shenzhen Power Supply Co. Ltd. Both companies are Co.Ltd and Shenzhen Power Supply Co.Ltd structure, remodeled production process, and identified as subsidiaries and are now under CSG’s direct management. enhanced vertical connection and horizontal Core Guangzhou Power Supply Co.Ltd and Shenzhen Power Supply Co. Ltd.adhere to the To-Top principle, namely “Global vision, practical abilities synergy among business units for an effective Customer Grid Grid Value Development pathfinding, perseverance and consistent improvement.” The two companies have used Singapore Power Power Grid (SPPG) and CLP for service operation expansion creation support practice of corporate core value and corporate ability ability ability ability ability comprehensive benchmarking with an aim to bring their management practice in line with international leading power companies, facilitate social responsibility. power grid development and make actual improvements on its operation, service and management quality. The benchmarking has encouraged overall remarkable improvements. 07 A Myriad of Twinkling Lights, Great Rapport of CSG Implementation of Mid-to-Long Term Strategy 08 Responsibility –Feature report Serving the people and striving for the best “CSG is at the forefront of serving the Hold first key clients workshop people. Therefore we should offer In Jul 2011, the central government of China decided to launch the campaign of “serving the people and striving the best” among the departments and industries which provided direct service to the general public. The purpose was to enhance the awareness of what the people need most and CSG held the first grid-wide key clients those departments and industries to serve the people so that they would improve their performance and provide better service. workshop. CSG management staff talked to improve where we fall short most to key clients on a face-to-face basis, giving Under the leadership of the campaign leading team of the central government and the state-owned enterprises, and by adhering update of power supply and demand, power enhance their satisfaction about to the “Scientific Outlook on Development”, CSG practiced its core value of “A Myriad of Twinkling Lights, Great Rapport of CSG” use policy and listening to their comments and power usage”. feedback, addressing actual problems and carried out performance enhancement activity themed as “Striving for the ‘Three Goods’ Service, Management and Corporate Image”. The activity prioritized six user groups who were in greater need and set up four targets including enhancing emerging from power use. —— Zhao Jianguo, the Board the power supply capability. It stressed five service standards and tried to solve five key problems in power supply. By making Chairman, CSG such earnest efforts, CSG made its due contribution to the harmonious economic and social growth. We visited 1,289 hospitals to check their CSG is fully committed to the striving for the best campaign emergency response plan and emergency power source , and those of “120” Enhance power Under the backdrop of power supply shortage, priority will be given to emergency medical center and other supply capability power grid safety and power use safety medical institutions; carry out emergency Domestic power use and livelihood power use response exercises for power failure; train Underprivileged households: electrical technicians; set up power supply Supporting needy people Take solid measures to guarantee domestic Four Five fast-track channel for them; and appoint Power distribution power demand objectives priority areas customer managers for them. Enterprises: Service team of Hechi Power Supply Bringing benefits Facilitate harmony Bureau of Guangxi Power Grid checked to customers and stability and repaired the power lines for Streamline business process underprivileged households in rural area. The service team of Guilin Power Improve clients’ Power default repair and maintenance , and power resumption efficiency Supply Bureau of Guangxi Power We visited 6,782 underprivileged households to satisfaction Grid visited enterprises to check power lines inside their houses regularly; Hospital: understand their power demand. Serving six prioritized user groups to improve School: Providing sincere We visited 9,215 enterprises to set up corporate replace their old and broken electrical appliances Showing love service free of charge; set up files for each of them; ease their living standards for students clients files; help enterprises with high power their financial burden in everyday life and work consumption to plan their power usage; help The service team of Anshun Power Supply by organizing donation events among our CPC Community: Bureau of Guizhou Power Grid checked power them to develop emergency response plan; Young staff from Huangzhu Power members and Youth League members. Providing care Supply Station of Hainan Power Grid supply equipments operation in hospitals. check emergency power supply; give lectures to local residents explained power usage knowledge to and diagnosis on power saving to help them Rural areas: primary school students. enhance power efficiency and reduce Serving agriculture, Meizhou Power Supply Bureau of CSG consumption. rural area, and rural won praise from local residents after population We visited 2,489 schools to spread the visits to communities. knowledge about power, green and safe Yunnan Power Grid provided quality power power, in particular; set up power supply supply to the pastry businesses in Kunming city to help them deal with frequent thunderstorms. In We visited 38,131 communities to carry out fast-track channel; appoint customer this picture, the flower farmers were picking roses, which power usage safety check; replace or repair managers to provide day-to-day service. would be made into fresh flower cakes and sold at the power distribution facilities and low voltage market.Yunnan Power Grid provided quality power supply lines; educate local residents to use power to the pastry businesses in Kunming city to help them deal safely and save power; process the power with frequent thunderstorms. In this picture, the flower farmers were picking roses, which would be made into supply applications of new residential fresh flower cakes and sold at the market. buildings on-site; and so on. We visited 8,406 villages to replace their electrical equipments and old wires and lamps; ensure power and oxygen supply to livestock farms; provide power service to farmers who dug wells to fight against draught and support agricultural development; spread knowledge on power usage and provide power-related services by organizing “mobile working station”; and so on. CGS launched “Social Activity Day” in Guangzhou to start the “Serving the People and Striving for the Best” campaign. 09 A Myriad of Twinkling Lights, Great Rapport of CSG Board Chairman's Speech 10 Responsibility: Feature report Guarantee power supply to Reinforcements at five fronts You have accomplished the first formidable task in power supply the Shenzhen Universiade to deliver wonderful Games guarantee for the Universiade which was critical and of worldwide Emergency response management influence. The success of Opening Ceremony was not possible CSG’s principle for the power supply to the Shenzhen Universiade was to “mobilize the resources To deal with unexpected extreme weather of CGS to support Guangdong Province, mobilize the resources of Guangdong Province to support without CSG’s contribution. State-owned Assets Supervision and condition, CSG strengthened contingency Shenzhen and mobilize the resources of Shenzhen to support the Universiade”. Thanks to our Administration Commission of the State Council (SASAC) is proud response effort and established “1+16” utmost effort, advance plan and reasonable arrangement, we provided excellent power service to advance contingency response system. of you and other state-owned enterprises are proud of you.” the games, achieving “zero accident, zero mistakes and zero complaint” and delivering our Contingency response material reserve was put promise of “complete success”. Embodying the spirit of “overcoming difficulties, being united as into place and all distribution centers were on —— Wang Yong, Minister of SASAC From Aug 1223, 2011, the 26th one and pursuing excellence”, we made positive contribution to the Shenzhen Universiade and Summer Universiade was held in duty 24 hours a day. The material could be helped to “make a difference”. Shenzhen. With the theme of “start distributed to key areas of Shenzhen within an here”, it attracted 7,865 athletes hour and non-key -area within 1.5 hours. from 152 countries and regions who Three challenges in power supply and guarantee to Shenzhen Universiade participated in 306 events (24 sport Information security Power grid and equipment safety items), making a record in terms of The Universiade coincides with power peak consumption in summer time.CSG’s maximum Zhenbao power transmission the number of participants and Power consumption coordinated load hit 111.27GWh, grid wide off-peak power load was 10 GWh, and the power CSG renovated and upgraded security protection To ensure that all power supply line put into production 18 days events. peak time system for the second time, which included equipment for the Universiade was of ahead of schedule grid was operating in an extreme condition, with acute power supply and demand situation. control centers at various levels, self-supplied “zero defect”, CSG carried out test and On 12th, June, CSG annual key project and power plants, substations of 220 KV and above, examination, patrol, maintenance and the key power guarantee project-500Kv Universiade Power Supply Statistics Typhoon As typhoon and thunderstorm hit at summer time, there were a lot of uncertainties in 110 KV substations in Shenzhen to ensure that hidden trouble-shooting for important Zhenbao power transmission line was put season terms of weather condition. 63 Games venues Shenzhen Universiade hosted 24 sports events and 306 sub-events, the largest there was zero information security accident, zero information system operation accident and equipment. Altogether 1,980 equipment defects were repaired and 1,627 hidden into service, 18 days ahead of schedule. Zhenbao (From zhenzhou to Baoan) power A large number one in terms of sports events and stadiums in Universiade. In total, 63 sports zero sensitive information leakage. troubles were solved. transmission line is the important link in of stadiums 3035 km Grade I power supply lines stadium were in use. Power grid security Maintenance of venues Power Transmission from East Guangdong, and will add another 4.5GWh of power transmission on a daily basis from Strengthening power supply capability 5815 Transmission towers Enhance power distribution capacity. We carried out 335 We deployed 381 armed policemen and 7,580 security staff to provide 24-hour surveillance We invited experts to conduct power supply safety evaluation for games east Guangdong to west Guangdong, and will effectively alleviate power shortage in projects to build or repair main grids and distribution grids to the power grid. We set up a power-related venues and other important places, 8000 KW of important load for Donggguan and Shenzhen and address the and finished 500 KV Zhenbao line, the top one project of 2011, crime prevention and fighting center in identifying and solving 1,388 problems. the opening ceremony off-peak power limits on 1 GW during the which was crucial to the power guarantee to the Universiade. cooperation with the Public Security authority Shenzhen Universiade period, and to achieve the goal of zero power equipment 6361 emergency repair team of 6,361 people Expand power supply sources. The power supply was tight in South China during the Shenzhen Universiade. CSG reached “power exchange agreement” with State Grid Corporation of China to ensure theft and damage case. therefore, provide a safety net for the power guarantee mission to the Universiade. Power grid and power Power guarantee and Power guarantee and that during the game time, the DC transmitted from the Three Gorges to Guangdong would reach the 38341 staff participated in supply equipments: supply to Universiade: supply: power supply full capacity of the lines. We tried our best to ensure that power transmitted from Yunnan would be as zero accident zero mistake zero complaint much as the annual amount and that from Guizhou would be so much if possible. Moreover, we purchased additional one billion kilowatt-hour power from Hong Kong to be transmitted to Guangdong. 11 A Myriad of Twinkling Lights, Great Rapport of CSG Board Chairman's Speech 12 Power Supply Zero major power grid The annual power outage of an 69.7 billion Yuan was invested and equipment accident urban user was 5.20 hours on in power grid construction. average, down by 21.92% year-on-year. CSG’s core responsibity is to provide safe, stable, reliable and quality power supply for sustainable 0 major 21.92 % 69.7 billion Yuan economic and social development. CSG has always been clients-oriented and put power grid safety and stability at its top priority. CSG has taken very specific measures to ensure safe production and has been constantly improving power supply reliability. CSG is striving to deliver world class power supply service. Quality Service >> Safe production >> Reliable power supply >> Emergency management >> Power grid construction >> Electricity equipments protection >> Science and innovation Quality Service CSG is clients-oriented, and always attaches high priority to clients’ demands.CSG has established a comprehensive client Upgrade marketing service and management service mechanism to deliver quality, convenient and efficient power service. CSG has established a standard marketing mechanism, system, Marketing and Clients Service Center Power Supply Pledge flow and has laid solid foundation for a standardized and Auditing Center Function positioning integrated marketing information system. Function positioning Establish clients service and solution CSG published Power Supply Service Pledge, CSG Code of Staff Service, and Fair, Just and Open Power Dispatching Measures. The three CSG has established clients service and solution center and and Establish marketing supervision center mechanism Pilot unit a professional supervision mechanism and reinforce technical documents have brought CSG’s service standards in line with international leading power grids, and set higher standards than national Pilot unit Guangzhou Power Supply Co., Ltd support to energy saving service. Guiyang Power Supply Bureau ones. Clients service CSG has standardized clients complaints processing platform to and consistently improve complaints processing workflow.CSG has solution center Power Measurement Power Saving Service Center a threelevel complaints supervision mechanism to boost Center Function positioning service quality. Function positioning Establish a professional institution for Achieve centralized management energy saving service CSG has streamlined clients investment interface, optimized of measurement installation Pilot unit internal management flow and coordinated projects Pilot unit Naning Power Supply Bureau implementation time to achieve a highly efficient business flow. Foshan Power Supply Bureau Power Supply CSG has established clients’ information processing center to safeguard clients’ information. No clients’ information leakage CSG power has occurred. Power Supply Pledge National power supply standard supply pledge 2011 performance Convenient service Designated Business Hall 1. 99.9% power supply reliability in urban areas, 98% voltage qualified rate at urban residents end, 99.5% power supply Process all related business Power supply reliability rate in urban 99 99.9 99.9406 Economic Green and Harmonious reliability in rural area, 92% voltage qualified rate at rural areas shall be no lower than (%) 99 residents end. 2. Advanced notice /announcement for planned outage and Online Business Hall Customer Hotline power rationing Voltage qualified rate at urban residents 客服中心 3. No random outage to residents’ domestic power end should be no lower than (%) 95 95 99.5 99.48 服务永无止境 4. Once outage occurs, power supply emergency repair team Provide 14 services including Convenient Customer hotline 95598 provides 13 Performance Environment Protection Society power bill inquiry, on-line business application, including high shall arrive on scene within 45 minutes in urban areas, 90 Once outage occurs, power supply payment, electronic bill, clients Service voltage and low voltage application, minutes in rural areas and 2 hours in remote areas. Power information update, etc transfer of ownership, business shall be restored within 4 hours in urban areas and 5 hours emergency repair team shall arrive on 60 45 36 suspension, resumption, etc. scene in urban areas within 60 minutes in rural areas after arrival of the repair team. 5. Power supply program response: Response should be made SMS Business Hall Once outage occurs, power supply Mobile Business Hall in no more than 3 working days, 7 working days, 15 working days and 30 working days to residents, low voltage emergency repair team shall arrive on 120 90 63 Monthly power bills will be tested to clients, in case of scene in rural areas within 120 minutes Provide services including on-site business clients, high voltage single power, high voltage dual power application, on-site payment. power failure, reasons causing the failure and estimated power restoring time will be tested to clients clients. Power meter and power connection: Power meter Once outage occurs, power supply affected. shall be installed and power should be supplied in no more emergency repair team shall arrive on 4 2 1.5 than 3 working days, 5 working days, 7 working days to scene in remote areas within 4 hours residents, low voltage clients and high voltage clients. 6. Power supply should be resumed to arrears clients once Power supply program response shall bills have been settled. be made in no more than 8 working 8 7 5 Customer hotline 95598 receives clients’ inquiries and plays a 7. Clients waiting time in CSG business hall should be no more days to low voltage clients than 15 minutes. coordination role in addressing clients’ requests. 8. 90% of phone calls to power supply hotline 95598 shall be Power supply program response shall be Customer hotline 95598 has the following functions put through within 20 seconds. made in no more than 20 working days 20 15 12 9. 100 power saving service training programs to 1,000 key to high voltage single power clients default reporting and repair business inquiries clients shall be held annually. power bill inquiries complaints, reporting and suggestions Power supply program response shall 10. Power supply service hotline 95598 takes clients consultancy, default handling and complaints on 24 hours be made in no more than 45 working 45 30 21 Customer hotline 95598 provides 24 hour non-stop service days to high voltage dual power clients basis. 15 A Myriad of Twinkling Lights, Great Rapport of CSG Power Supply 16 Safety production Customer Satisfaction Assessment In 2011, water resources (rainfall) were scarce under CSG’s service area. Coal-fired power generation units were not motivated as coal prices rose. Therefore, demand exceeded supply. Complicated system operations, demanding project operation, combined with CSG has been involving in 3rd party research on Customer Satisfaction to timely understand clients concern, respond to extreme weather condition have created challenges in safety and stability operation. CSG has been sticking to the principle of “Safety clients demand and constantly boost power supply quality. first, prevention –based and comprehensive management”, practicing safety production, closed loop management and control, enhancing power grid operation and management, making every effort to maintain equipment maintenance, and has effectively CSG commissioned Gallup to conduct 3rd party satisfaction survey, and achieved a guaranteed power grid safety and orderly power supply. In 2011, no major /significant accidents occurred in CSG, and for the first time, customer satisfaction score at 75, one of the highest in China. CSG achieved accident reduction and default reduction, and key operation index ranked best. The power supply service of Guangdong Grid Company has ranked number one in Third Party Customer Satisfaction Index （Unit : point） satisfaction among top ten service sectors for six consecutive years, and ranked number one in satisfaction of public services assessment in Guangdong Province for 79 75 75 Stable operation of power grid 80 three consecutive years. 71 CSG has reinforced 4-level coordinated mechanism, and has adopted a number of effective measures in ex-ante Guangxi Power Grid was ranked “very satisfactory” in government institutions analysis, reinforcement, and dynamic follow-up to boost power grid operation level. For the first time, CSG has 60 assessment. achieved zero default operation in 50±0.1Hz grid-wide and 50±0.1Hz of Hainan Island Grid (for 141 days). The Yunnan Grid Company ranked number one in public satisfaction ranking of top ten 40 comprehensive grid-wide average voltage qualification rate has maintained 99.9999%. service sectors of Yunnan Province for three consecutive years. Power Supply Guizhou Power Grid scored 91.9 in public utility key sector survey, ranking number one. 20 Analyze critical factors which may affect power supply, and trigger alarm on timely basis, and do its Guangzhou Power Supply Bureau has ranked top for 11 consecutive years in Ex-ante utmost to generate as much power as possible, and effectively address the most demanding supply customer satisfaction survey in Guangzhou public utility service. 0 analysis and demand scenario since the founding of the company. CLP Gallop Benchmark CSG 2010 CSG 2011 Shenzhen Power Supply Bureau has ranked first in public satisfaction ranking of top Grid ten service sectors of Guangdong Province for three consecutive years. ranking coordinated CSG has reinforced management scheme concerning new equipments, working procedures, number one in the province public utility sectors. service guidelines, standardized testing and performance test of generation unit parameters, and taken precautionary measures in system safety operation. province mechanism, and Reinforcement CSG has facilitated DC power connection between Hunan grid and Guangdong grid, and has Background overview Economic Green and Harmonious Customer Satisfaction key Index （Unit: points） and put conducted island test. In total, 140+ problems have been addressed and solved, laying a solid put measures into measures foundation for bi-pole load safety operation. 100 10 key sector customer satisfaction survey in Guangdong is prefecture in place CSG has facilitated standardized management on power dispatching at county-level power plants. 91 12 prefecture-level power dispatching center, 28 county-level power dispatching center has 90 conducted by the third party (Guangdong Province place vertically 84 85 83 84 83 passed acceptance tests. 80 Investigation Investigation & Research Center). The Center has 77 77 county 80 76 77 71 selected 10 public utility service sectors, namely, power supply, 69 69 Performance Environment Protection Society 70 64 telecommunications, gas, postal service, banks, insurance, oil 60 Dynamic CSG has analyzed abnormal events (for instance, low-frequency oscillation, protective circuit supply, tourism to conduct customer service survey. follow-up tripping, and has achieved “analysis done, conclusion drawn, measures taken and in place.” 50 Stable supply Supply safety Bill payment Business Operation 95598 Hotline Customer Problem handling service communication solving ensure system safe and stable operation Year 2010 Year 2011 System operation department has 4 operation boost economic operation of system established to enhance management and objectives boost quality operation of system Improve Customer satisfaction boost environment-friendly operation of system coordination capability on power grid Customer satisfaction is a dynamic index, under the backdrop of rapid safety operation. increase of power demand; customers are more demanding in power Safety indicators 11 indicators supply safety, stability, reliability and diversified and tailor-made CSG has compiled 12th Five-Year-Plan on 22 key Electricity quality indicators 2 indicators power service. Power grid and power plants are under the dual pressure Safety Production, for a comprehensive indicators Economic performance indicators 5 indicators Environment performance indicators 4 indicators of “power supply” and “sound power supply service”. CSG has made analysis on pros, cons, opportunities, every effort to strike a balance between customer satisfaction and cost challenges of safety production. New equipment interconnection to power grid Demand and emission of fuels control and has identified customer communication and problem Outage Investment, operation, 7operation shooting as the key areas to improve customer satisfaction. Bettering communication with clients Power generation and upgrading of equipment CSG has reinforced system operation plans Power supply, power receiving Utilization of reservoir and planning management, and has Customer CSG has conducted customer information planning to implement customer segment analysis. The identified 4 operation objectives, 22 key communication company sets full-time account manager to enhance customer service efficiency and quality. Grid structure System operation arrangement indexes. 7 categories of operation plans 9 risk Putting into operation of key equipments 3 system preventative measures Problem CSG has facilitated a centralized telephone service, and is constantly improving customer service value and 9 categories of risk prevention preventative Equipment upgrading and counter-measures Technical research on equipment Coordination between power plants and power grid disaster-prevention shooting chain starting from customer demand analysis, transmission to response. measures. measures Ensuring power supply to key clients Special research on power grid features 17 A Myriad of Twinkling Lights, Great Rapport of CSG Power Supply 18 Sound equipment operation Standardized safe production management CSG has reinforced equipment pre-run and regular testing management to ensure safe operation of key equipments. The CSG attaches priority to safe production risk management and rolls out responsibility system , enhances safe company analyzes and addresses key equipments defects timely and facilitates condition-based maintenance in a steady production awareness, and consistently improve safe production quality . manner. In 2011, CSG achieved remarkable equipment operation maintenance, no major equipment accident occurred. CSG has completed overall design on production system, core business streamlining, and business blueprint, and for the first time, compiled Technical Code System Table and rolls out grid wide. CSG has compiled 146 technical codes on power transmission and power CSG has established risk prevention and control mechanism on power distribution equipments, which has effectively addressed existing problems distribution , vertical communication and horizontal synergy among related in national standards and industry standards. These codes have standardized departments, expanded secondary system, on-site operation, equipment technical specifications and have made specific and viable requirements on management to realize a comprehensive, forward looking and effective power transmission and power distribution equipments. operation risk management prevention and control. The company completed 82,600 pre-run and regular testings and identified CSG has involved constructors in risk management system, in total, 260 Power Supply and addressed 1,233 defects. constructors has practiced risk management. CSG reinforced special maintenance measures on key equipments , made and Longhua Power Supply station, Haikou Power Supply CSG has involved county-level power plants in risk management system; Bureau is checking and addressing hidden dangers. practiced 272 special maintenance programs on key equipments , covering every provincial –level power company has selected 30% county-level power Ankang Award Labour Skills Competition 64*500Kv power transmission lines, 26*500Kv transformers and 182*500 plants to practice safe production risk management system, conduct risk KV circuit breakers. assessment and control. CSG rolled out mature live testing and condition monitoring technology and CSG launched a number of campaigns with the theme of safe production, platinum (5 diamonds， installed 2,082 on-line monitoring equipments on 220Kv and above including: “Year of safe production”, “Month of safe production”, 1st Safe highest award in safe Economic Green and Harmonious equipments. Culture Strategy Research Forum, safe production training programs. The 1 production certification) company CSG facilitated condition –based maintenance in a steady manner, and events have successfully created a “share and help” safe culture and completed condition assessments on 27,200 transformers and circuit enhanced staff awareness and skills on safe production. Gold (4 diamonds) 1 breakers at voltage of 110Kv and above CSG has rolled out safe production risk management system in 79 units grid company wide. By the end of 2011, 50 units, or 63% of them have been awarded silver Power generation units in maintenance Silver (3 diamonds) or above safe production and risk management certification by external 48 Performance Environment Protection Society companies assessments. compiled 146 technical code on Invested RMB 665 million on completed 82,600 pre-run and practiced 272 special power transmission and power equipment capacity expansion regular testing maintenance programs on distribution equipments and retrofit RMB key equipments 146 RMB 665 Million 82600 272 put safe production responsibility in place Eagle on snow mountain CSG is committed to national safe production laws and regulations, and industry regulation and standards, and has published CSG Safe Production Regulations to assign safe production responsibility to staff at all levels. River Nu Station, Yunnan Power Grid Company operates and runs 220KV Lanfu power transmission line, the line with the biggest CSG has transformed safe production supervision management model to an Ex-Ante one. A total process supervision management model based on altitude difference in China. The line, with the total length of 111.237km, spans Biluo Snow Mountain with the altitude of 4,000 power grid, equipments, operation risk has been established and priority has been shifted to Ex-Ante, to ensure safe management responsibility and meters, acts as the only power transmission line connecting River Nu Valley and the power grid.The altitude difference exceeds risk control measures in place. 3,000 meters. For every single inspection trip, River Nu Station staff need to trudge over Biluo snow mountain for 350 kms, including CSG has integrated safe indicators into performance assessment and has achieved step-down assessment. CSG has published Safe Production 50 kms no man’s land and primitive forests. Every trip takes more than 20 days. Depending on power transmission line status, six to a dozen trips are needed per year. In the past four years, staff accomplished operation and maintenance tasks, and is named as Accountability Management Regulation to reinforce accountability system. “eagle on Snow Mountain” by the media. In April, 2011, the station was awarded “Collective Prize on Moving China, Power Sector” CSG carried out investigations to production accidents and highlighted root causes to accidents to prevent repeated occurances.The company has strengthened safe production management and training to address major problems and ensure that safe production can be controlled and is in a For futher reading, please visit feature reports on “Eagle on snow mountain” at CSG official website. controlled state. 19 A Myriad of Twinkling Lights, Great Rapport of CSG Power Supply 20 Address unbalanced power supply and demand situation insufficient rainfall In 2011, southern china was confronted with much less rainfall, Five measures to address power supply shortage insufficient coal supply, and persistent high temperature. Power demand exceeded power supply and the year was the most Bettered communication with five provincial challenging year in terms of power supply since CSG was founded. governments and regions Guangdong Power Grid Provincial government played a guiding role in the Guangdong Power Grid tapped its potential in power supply and put 500Kv Zhenbao power transmission communication process. CSG urged related government line in operation. Guangdong Power Grid played a coordination role and took the initiative to install In summer flood period, the actual power transmitted from the generation units to supply emergency power and facilitated government’s subsidy to 9E generation units; it departments to make better coordination efforts to 58GW installed capacity was recorded at 20GW only. managed to get support from the State Power Grid, Guangxi Power Grid, Yunnan Power Grid, CLP, and in ensure coal-fired power generation. CSG urged total, it managed to get additional 2GW power for Guangdong province and provided strong support for the In summer period, coal-fired power generation units power Guangdong, Guangxi and Guizhou governments to province’s social and economic development. Guangdong Power Grid’s practice is an innovative approach supply decreased by 15GW because of coal shortage. In 2011, the overall rainfall recorded at major river catchments was insufficient and reflected promulgate power generation subsidy policy and in addressing power shortage in terms of cooperation among government, power plants and clients. abnormal drought-resistance during flood season. There are higher hydro-powered generation In Aug and Sept of 2011, 10GW off-peak power use was recorded therefore, effectively alleviated cost pressures on units in the 5 provinces/regions in CSG’s service area. Unfortunately, River Hongshui and River in 34 days, with daily off-peak power use at 10.55GW. Wu recorded 75% less rainfall compared to past years, and River Langcang recorded 14% less coal-fired power plants. rainfall compared to previous years. Coordinate and adjust cross-region resources Insufficient coal-fired power generation CSG made full use of regional/provincial load differences Guangxi Power Grid Power Supply and reinforced cross-region adjustment to support drought resistance and power supply guarantee in the Under the grim supply and demand situation, CSG bettered Guangxi Power Grid did an excellent job in load forecast and orderly power use dispatching, and perfected west. CSG took the initiative to negotiate with the State off-peak early warning mechanism. Guangxi Power Grid published and put load-side dispatching communication with related provincial governments and regions, Power Grid and practiced Three Gorges Power Trading and management measures in place and guided strict power supply in accordance with index. The Grid and made every effort to guarantee coal supply and power successfully won power supply support from central convened key account workshop and successfully persuaded high energy consumption plants to spare generation, and made flexible adjustments and optimization on China. CSG managed to have CLP’s support and bought 0.6GW load to local residents and high value-added small and medium sized companies. cross-region dispatching , arranged reasonable maintenance and more CLP power to support peak power consumption in repair of generation units, and reinforced equipment operation Guangdong province. Economic Green and Harmonious and maintenance to increase power supply and successfully Organize local power generation units to supply addressed power shortage. Under the adverse impact of rising coal prices, coal-fired power plants suffered from severe deficit and were not motivated. Coal-fired power generation units were not running at the highest power at peak consumption period possible capacity. CSG supported Guangdong provincial government to subsidize gas-powered units, and dispatched Yunnan Power Grid Three Guarantee Principle emergency power generation from installed power Yunnan Power Grid practiced dispatching management and information disclosure, and made dynamic In CSG’s service the Guangxi, Yunnan, Guizhou Performance Environment Protection Society generation units and increased 2.5GW power supply to audit and checking of west-to-east hydro power capacity and made timely adjustments on power overall power shortage was over provincesonce recorded over Guangdong. CSG made flexible arrangements in transmission cap to optimize key project node. In 2011, blocked power in west Yunnan was 1.041 TWh, Guarantee representing 846GWh reduction compared to year 2010 and facilitated an open and highly efficient use of 10 30 generation units and reinforced equipment operation residents’ water resources in blocked areas. power use and maintenance to increase power supply. % % power shortage Ensure safe and stable power grid operation CSG put all measures in risk management and risk prevention in place Reinforced orderly power use management CSG worked closely with government at all levels and Guizhou Power Grid Guarantee Guarantee Under the backdrop of Sleet disaster , coal shortage, insufficient rainfall, Guizhou Power Grid bettered its published Orderly Power Use Program based on power people’s key clients’ communication with the headquarter and local governments, optimized hydro and coal-fired power supply and demand situation, and adhered to the policy of livelihood power use operation, made dynamic tracking of inflow to reservoir , made reasonable maintenance arrangements on “ coexistence of power supply guarantee and power cuts”, coal-fired power generation units and made every effort to ensure power supply to the province and other discouraging unreasonable power use and advocating provinces. electricity saving and optimized electricity use. The peak coordinated load hit coordinated power supply and incoming power hit successfully addressed effects CSG gave a full play to its platform role and coordinated cross-region resources to guarantee power supply and therefore supported rapid economic growth in the 5 provinces and regions, and realized triple win situations (namely, satisfaction from government, power plants and clients) 113 GW representing 8.5% increase compared to the previous year 721.8 TWh representing 9.71% increase compared to the previous year 12 historical high in coordinated load 21 A Myriad of Twinkling Lights, Great Rapport of CSG Power Supply 22 Power supply reliability Power outage index is the key index to assess quality service in power sector, reflecting the comprehensive management level in power grid Establish a reliable power distribution network construction, production technology, safety operation, power supply, quality service, employee qualification and human resources CSG reinforced power distribution construction and improved power distribution management. The company is committed development. CSG shall prioritize outage reduction as its core competence construction, and bring CSG’s practice in line with international to establishment of a smart, efficient, reliable and green power distribution network so as to lay a solid foundation to leading power companies and do its utmost to deliver quality power service to the clients. guarantee client’s power use. CSG power supply reliability（RS-1） in urban areas was recorded at 99.9406%, 0.0166% improvement than the previous period, SAIDI was 5.20 hour per household, 1.46 hours reduction than the previous period, power supply reliability（RS-1）in rural areas was recorded at CSG invested RMB26.636 in power distribution network construction. 35kVand99.8623%, with 2.80 hours improvement than the previous period; SAIDI was 12.07 hours per household. below Power distribution line with the total length of 35,592km and total capacity of 2000MVA was put into operation. Average outage for urban clients under CSG’s service area （unit：hour per household） CSG facilitated standard design and typical costing plan of power distribution CSG has formulated Power Supply Reliability Assessment network. In 2011, 50% of county-level power grid construction projects achieved Standards for Prefecture and City level Power Plants. The 15 standard design and typical costing plan of power distribution network. Sino-Singapore Knowledge City 11.22 Standards will help to analyze weak links in power supply 10.42 Establish modern electricity demonstration CSG facilitated power distribution automation pilot work in 7 power supply 10 reliability and tailor make solutions to improve power reliability. 8.23 6.66 bureaus, including Guangzhou, Shenzhen, Zhongshan.Power distribution zone In May, 2011, 5 power supply companies under the umbrella of 5.20 5 network coverage rate in Guangzhou Power Supply Co.Ltd, Shenzhen Futian Sino-Singapore Knowledge City is located at the Power Supply CSG were awarded as Leading Power Supply Reliability Companies Power Supply Bureau and Zhongshan Power Supply Bureau reached 41%、75%、 northern zone of Guangzhou Science City. CSG in China by the State Electricity Regulatory Commission (SERC). In 0 100％ respectively. has adopted state-of-art and smart technology to 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 （Year） total, 20 companies were awarded. Among them, Shenzhen Power establish the Knowledge City as a domestic leading Supply Bureau and Zhongshan Power Supply Bureau ranked No.1 solar PV panels smart electric cars Average outage for rural clients under CSG’s service area （unit：hour per household） and first rate modern electricity demonstration and No2 in clients outage index in “Level A Leading companies in smart meters zone. In power construction, a number of leading power supply reliability” , recording 1.48 hours per household smart smart home 38.65 40 communication technologies are adopted, including straight voltage outage , and 1.5 hours per household outage. drop from 220kV to 20kV, indoor substation, high Economic Green and Harmonious SAIDI in urban areas of Guangdong Power Grid was 2.01 hours, 27.94 smart power generators 30 voltage line cable laying ; in terms of smart grid, ranking number one in provincial level power grid companies in 22.64 clients demand CSG has realized power distribution network China. 20 management 14.87 automation by digital substation, comprehensive Shenzhen Power Supply Bureau has been continuously improving 12.07 central management system tunnel monitoring and management system. its urban customers’ SAIDI , and in 2010, its urban clients SAIDI 10 Power distribution network automation effectively Performance Environment Protection Society was reduced to 1.28 hours. 0 provides reliable and quality green power and has 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 （Year） smart office laid a solid foundation for customized service. Note: Average outage for rural clients under CSG service area is based on industry smart meters parent companies’ data smart electricity storage SAIDI comparative analysis between key cities in CSG’s service area and international cities (unit: hour/per household) Smart power distribution network 15.53 16 Shenzhen Power Supply 14 Bureau ranked No.1 in terms Comprehensive outage management 42.95% of power supply reliability in 12 Class A enterprise in China. 11.31 Ba ckg r o u n d knowledge 11.58% No.1 10.00 10 CSG sets outage targets and assessment to reinforce outage management. 8.86 Every effort is made to minimize redundant maintenance, repeated 20kV power distribution lines 8 6.76 outage, overtime outage and unscheduled outage. 20kV power distribution lines can meet demands on 6.05 11.40% 30.92% 5.65 multi-loop and achieve high reliability, and has 2 times 6 5.36 5.29 4.67 power transmission capacity compared to 10 kV lines. 47.26% CSG has established outage statistic system at grid, province, prefecture and 4 20kV power distribution lines’ power supply area is 2.5 66.16% 2.98 county level. 13.51% times than that of 10kV lines, but with 1/4 of line-loss rate 1.79 1.48 CSG improved power dispatching mechanism covering province, prefecture, and 2 1.28 only. 20kV power distribution line is ideal for clients with 0.95 0.63 county levels, and comprehensive outage coordination mechanism covering significant power demands and is the most optimized 0 power generation, power transmission, power distribution and power power supply method for power grid as it help to reduce 2010 2010 2010 2011 2010 2011 2010 2011 2010 2011 2010 2011 2010 2011 2010 2011 （Year） London Paris Guangzhou Shenzhen Nanjing Guilin Kunming Guiyang Haikou consumption process. The company used indicators like repeated outage rate to the numbers of substations and line corridor footprint. Note: SAIDI differences among different cities reflect differences in power grid development and investment. optimize outage and reduce repeated outage. 23 A Myriad of Twinkling Lights, Great Rapport of CSG Power Supply 24 On-load Exercises Power supply guarantee CSG promotes on-load exercises, reduces outage frequencies and tries its best Based on success in power supply guarantee to Asian Games, CSG made Guidance to Power Supply Guarantee standard and to realize no-interruption to the customers during repair and fault checking. compiled Manual on Power supply Guarantee, practiced and improved power supply guarantee experiences and accomplished Provincial power grids take their local circumstances into consideration and power guarantee missions to a number of significant events. carry on-load exercises. Guangdong Power Grid practiced 10,000 on-load Yunnan Power Grid conducted exercises, Guangxi Power Grid carried on-load exercise skills training, Yunnan helicopter on-load exercise Nanning Hainan Power Grid has achieved on-load exercises at power distribution networks, The 12th S Guangxi Zhuang Ethnic The 12th Hainan Joy Festival Guizhou Power Grid conducted on-load exercise skills competition, Hainan Minority Autonomous Region Games 30th-31st,Dec,2011 Power Grid facilitated standardized and regular on-load exercises. 5th-17th, Nov,2011 Nanjing CSG on-load exercises in 2011 Dec The 8th Nov Jan China-ASEAN Expo Power Supply subsidiary On-load exercise outage reduced branch (times) 21st-26th, Oct,2011 （10,000hours·household） Yunnan Power Grid conducted helicopter Oct Feb Guangdong Power Grid 13175 122.24 on-load exercises at high altitude compact Hainan Guizhou 2011 500kV power transmission lines, the first 2011 Guangxi Power Grid 1401 11.56 10th Anniversary of Boao The 9th National Ethnic ever in China. Helicopter on-load exercises Minority Games Sep Mar Asian Forum Annual conference Yunnan Power Grid 2956 15.09 need fewer hands, and shorten operator’s and important state occasions 10th-18th, Sept,2011 Guizhou Power Grid 1643 7.25 exposure under strong electric field, and 10th-18th, April, 2011 Aug Apr Economic Green and Harmonious Hainan Power Grid 265 0.86 therefore, much safer . Jul May Jun Express Supply Restoration Performance Environment Protection Society Shenzhen CSG has been improving power failure management system; emergency The 26th Universiade Kunming 12 -23rd , Aug,2011 May Holiday Kunming repair staff arrived on scene in strict compliance with service pledge, and International Tourism Carnival delivered an efficient repair service. Power distribution network fast 30th, April-7th, May, 2011 CSG has established time limit assessment mechanism on power resumption and repair service and updated repair service progress to clients on timely basis. Thanks to CSG’ efforts in power distribution network automation, fault location Zero milliseconds switch realized by Magnetic Flywheel Emergency Power Car reduction, fault isolation reduction, power resumption efficiency improvement, the average power resumption time in Guangzhou, Shenzhen and Zhongshan city In a state leader’s inspection tour to Guangzhou, Guangzhou Military Command was in charge of reduced from 219、197、195 minutes to 144、141、118 minutes. security. Guangzhou Power Supply Co., Ltd used a magnetic flywheel emergency power car to avoid outage caused by abrupt load changes. Political Department of Guangzhou Military Command wrote Shenzhen Power Supply Bureau constructed a letter to CSG to express their appreciation. automated power distribution network-based Guangzhou Shenzhen Zhongshan power resumption system in core zones and Average power resumption Average power resumption Average power resumption used remote functions to achieve fast location time reduced by time reduced by time reduced by 34.25 28.43 39.49 and long distance isolation. The bureau leveraged GPS monitoring and PAD to Ba ckg r o u n d kn o w l e d g e % % % dispatch staff for on-site service, and average Magnetic flywheel emergency power car is equipped with a number of domestic leading technologies, capable of integrating UPS and power car, delivering online arrival time was within 20 minutes, achieving protection status and realizing zero milliseconds switch , therefore, significantly enhances power output stability. 30% time % reduction. 25 A Myriad of Twinkling Lights, Great Rapport of CSG Power Supply 26 Contingency management Prompt response in disaster relief Improve comprehensive capability in contingency management CSG has always taken the initiative to undertake responsibility in emergencies. CSG reinforced contingency management and upgraded emergency commanding and information management system The company has made specific measures and contingency plans in natural organized and practiced video access to emergency commanding platform; the company compiled and updated headquarters disaster strike (including sleet snowstorm, typhoons, earthquakes, and other 1+15 contingency plan to make the plan more practical and viable, and significantly improved comprehensive capabilities in natural disasters). Under frequent outbreak of extreme weather conditions, contingency management. CSG successfully launched disaster relief programs, including sleet and snow disaster in Yunnan and Guizhou in early 2011, Yingjiang earthquake in 10th, March, 2011, Typhoon Nesat, Nalgae strike in Hainan. The company’s prompt Establish Compiled and Improve linkage updated information response in power network repair and power restoration is widely recognized mechanism contingency plans system by the public. Thanks to well planned preventative measures, CSG’s disaster CSG technicians performing power transmission line repair services after the earthquake strike in Yunan relief efforts turned out much better than that of 2008. CSG branch/subsidiaries has In total, CSG compiled and updated 10,997 CSG connected branch companies and contingency plans, covering grid-wide Improve disaster relief Improve anti-icing measures established linkage mechanism with subsidiaries’ video to emergency commanding business and risks. platform and realized real-time and long Power Supply government departments and related CSG invested RMB1.145 billion and bought another 25 DC de-icing devices and 29 vehicle-mounted de-icing equipment devices. and contingency management CSG installed de-icing switch and optimized connection and operation steps of de-icing devices. The company successfully departments distance access to on-site video files. CSG revised and compiled contingency plans in natural disaster strike reduced device connection time from 3 hours to 1 hour and improved de-icing efficiency. (including sleet snowstorm, typhoons, earthquakes, and other natural CSG formulated a number of technical codes including Guiding Principles for DC De-icing Device Configuration, and conducted Guizhou Power Grid and Yunnan Power Grid established linkage mechanism with related provincial departments. They worked with disasters), standardized contingency disposal processes and research and implementation of aerial earth wire de-icing technical programs. The 1st de-icing system for earth wire achieved Meteorological Agency and provided power sector meteorological service, they worked with Contingency Management Office, Transport improved contingency management. success in 220kV Dazhen Lines in Yunnan on 29th, Nov, 2011. Department and Highway Management Bureau to issue “Special permit for de-icing and power supply”. CSG published disaster relief manual and compiled sleet and EHV company worked with Hainan Marine Bureau to establish a linkage mechanism on submarine cable protection, and successfully snowstorm map, seismic zone distribution map, typhoon map, and addressed 10 anchorages in submarine cable protection zone and guaranteed submarine cable safe operation. de-icing devices map. Improve anti-typhoon measures CSG published 219 times pre-warning and activated 78 level-Ⅳ Economic Green and Harmonious CSG conducted typhoon information collection, typhoon meteorological, comparative study between China and overseas contingency response, dispatched 170,000 disaster relief Linkage mechanism standards, comprehensive preventative measures and put forward comprehensive technical anti-typhoon measures for power of emergency supplies person/times transmission and distribution lines in strong wind condition in southern China. CSG completed pilot upgrading to 18 loops of power lines in Guangdong and coastal regions of Hainan. CSG classified and recorded emergency supplies on the basis of emergency command information management system and realized flexible dispatching of emergency supplies and enable a better coordination and use of emergency supplies under emergencies. Performance Environment Protection Society Reinforce contingency drills Ba ck ground knowledge Snowstorm Earthquake Typhoon CSG reinforced contingency drills and improved capabilities in addressing power and sleet disaster grid accident and provided guarantee to safe and stable power grid operation. Disaster impact Disaster impact Disaster impact Double Blind drills CSG rolled out drills and conducted research on Double Blind drills to improve effects of In Jan, 2011, main power transmission lines at main On 10th,March, 2011, Yingjiang County, Yunnan Late Sept and early Oct, 2011, typhoon Nesat, Double Blind refers unannounced drill time, network and power distribution network in some Province was shattered by earthquake at the magnitude Nalgae and tropical storm attacked Guangdong, contingency drills. venue, scene, and accident. The general areas of Guangdong Province, Guangxi Autonomous of 5.8 Richter Scale. Some 220kV transformers were Guangxi and Hainan. Power transmission lines Region, and Yunnan Province, Guizhou Province torn apart, 4 110kV substations were forced out of tripped, substations were forced out of operation, commander of the drill makes random suffered icing. In total, icing occurred to 1,866 lines in operation, power supply failed in Xingjian County and more than one million household lost power. choice on time, venue, scene and accident. CSG service are and 163 townships were affected. Lianghe County completely, and 123,600 households Drill participants should take their initiative suffered from power failure. to respond based on the scenario. The Coping measures Coping measures Coping measures and effects and effects and effects main purpose of Double Blind drill is to test actual contingency response and handling CSG dispatched 1,022,426 contingency staff/times. Yunnan Power Grid organized 1,971 contingency staff Guangdong Power Grid completed anti-drought and capabilities. 72,288 contingency cars/times, and invested RMB and 214 contingency lighting device, 21 contingency anti-flooding inspection, identified and addressed 272 183.53 million in repair and after 1 month painstaking power generation units, 240 tents, and within 22 hours, hidden dangers, contingency response mechanism efforts and repair, resumed power supply to all effected power was resumed in the earthquake stricken area. actively and timely and successfully fought against the power transmission lines, substations, townships and effects of typhoon; Guangxi Power Grid reinforced residents . anti-flooding monitoring, and and sent out rescue team to restore power supply in the shortest possible time; Hainan Power Grid sent out rescue teams of 31,460 technicians, 2,715rescue vehicles and achieved success in disaster relief. Contingency drills in flooding season 27 A Myriad of Twinkling Lights, Great Rapport of CSG Power Supply 28 Power grid construction Power Facilities Protection Land scarcity within CSG’s service area, combined with other factors including environment concerns, railway networks, highway CSG take specific measures to comply with related laws and regulations and improved power facilities management and networks, relocation and land compensation fees for power transmission lines and substation construction has created enormous conducted power facilities protection. In 2011, no major power grid and/or facilities failure caused by damaged power facilities difficulties for power grid construction. Rising power grid construction cost and construction time frame made power grid planning occurred and power grid stable operation was ensured. a formidable task. CSG works closely with governments at all levels and stakeholders to put power grid planning in place and have laid a concrete foundation for power supply. In 2011, CSG invested RMB69.7 billion in power grid construction and put 11 key Perfect regulations on CSG’s branch companies and subsidiaries Actively promoted and used projects into operation on time and Liangdu project started operation on schedule. power facilities protection formulated, compiled, updated and perfected CSG promoted anti-theft technologies and new power facilities management to facilitate a regulations on power facilities protection, and products for power facilities with an accumulative technologies and new identified specific job responsibilities and job investment of RMB 88.79 million and 80,074 sets standardized and products to improve overall descriptions, and standardized power facilities of equipments. Power grid planning and investment systematic management protection management flow. anti-theft capabilities The company completed system design on CSG main grid Key power grid construction projects went into operation CSG established joint session system and urged local Explore and promote new CSG established 1,377 patrol teams with 14,869 governments to perfect related laws and regulations framework and system design of 5 provinces and regions in the methods in power facilities patrol staff. The company enhanced internal patrol Works closely with local and played a supporting role in joint law reinforcement Item Project protection and take a wide and incorporated power facilities protection in public actions with local Public Security Bureaus and Industry 12th Five-Year-Plan , secondary system planning, and Operation time governments to carry range of approaches in security system and urged local public security and Commerce Bureaus , and assisted Public power facility protection amendments to 12th Five-Year-Plan for 65 prefecture-level Huizhou Zhenzhou Power Transmission patrol bureau to reinforce patrol and ambush efforts. Security Bureaus in joint examinations and cracked 01 16th, May,2011 and Power Transformation Project serious power-sector –related criminal offences. cities, and incorporate power grid planning in national power Power Supply development plan. 500kV Shenzhen Kunpeng-Baoan 02 Power Transmission Project 12th, June, 2011 Hainan Power Grid invested RMB185 million and completed Carry a wide range of CSG played a supporting role in 671 government’s publicity events, and took the initiative to organize 1,325 publicity events, sent 733,585 3*220 kV double loop lines, representing a historical 03 500 kV Fengyi Substation Expansion Project 26th, June, 2011 pieces of text messages, and sent out 2,281 publicity campaign cars to rural areas, made 10,499 publicity banners, distributed 2,996,580 pieces publicity events on power of power facilities protection leaflets and brochures, produced and posted 206,507 posters, and distributed 119,806 related publicity materials development from single loop network to double loop network. facilities protection and brochures. 04 220kV 2 Loop Project Guantang-Hongshi 26th, June, 2011 Power grid investment (Unit: RMB 100 million) 05 28th, June, 2011 500kV Qingyuan Kuwan (Qingcheng ) Project Economic Green and Harmonious 600 06 Huizhou Pumped Storage Project 11th,July, 2011 500 500 220kV Sanjiang Power Transmission 457 07 5th, Aug,2011 and Transformation Project 400 389 Protect submarine cables Achievement in power facilities protection 08 500kV Gongguoqiao Power Transmission Project 17th, Oct, 2011 300 There were 12,907 thefts and damages of power Performance Environment Protection Society 232 219 200 09 220kV Ruili Power Transmission and 26th, Oct, 2011 Frequent anchorages and fishing operation in submarine cable protection zone 200 179 166 184 facilities in CSG’s five provinces and regions in 2010, a Power Transformation Project 127 119 145 157 151 in 500kV Hainan Power Connection Project poses formidable challenges to 100 94 13.7% drop over 2010; the direct economic loss caused 10 220kV Fudu Power Transmission Project 31st, Oct, 2011 submarine safety. 0 by these crimes was RMB 77.14 million, 5 % drop than In Aug, 2011, the company launched submarine cable protection project and 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 （Year） 500kV Huili Power Transmission and 11 Power Transformation Project 3rd, Dec, 2011 2010. For four consecutive years, case number and 500kV and above 220kV 110kV and below completed 260,000 tons of riprap .Rocks coated “armor” for 31km undermarine cable and significantly safeguarded submarine cable. It was the first time in direct economic losses dropped. China to have large scale of riprap project for submarine cables. A rock warehouse Statistics of theft and Number of cases damage of power facilities Direct economic loss caused (10000 RMB) Standardized management of power grid construction rockfall module conveying belt 80000 74600 CSG reinforced 6 capital construction management including management on project, safety, quality, costing, progress, loading 70000 and technology and achieved “standardized management, standardized construction, safe and quality, green and B rock warehouse 60000 environment friendly” 49553 50000 A standardized system on capital constructioin management has initially taken shape, 25 class A system, 29 Class B systems, 11 standardized rockfall tube 40000 design and typical costing, 12 operation standards were published underwater robot 31400 30000 CSG organized 816 project owners’ office and ensured every capital construction project is managed by its project owner. seabed 21743 20000 For the first time, all items in capital construction projects grid-wide were managed by landmark progress management. CSG made landmark 16256 14964 12907 1meter 8379 8120 progress plan and 3 level progress plans and used traffic-light system to control progress. 0.5meter 1meter riprap diagram 10000 5meters 7714 0 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 （Year） 29 A Myriad of Twinkling Lights, Great Rapport of CSG Power Supply 30 Technology innovation CSG is one of the leading players in new technology application. The company is proud to have state-of-art power transmission Ba ckg r o u n d Kn o w l e d g e technology, for instance: UHV DC power transmission, electricity triggering, light trigger thyristor valve, thyristor controlled series compensation (TCSC), fixed series compensation, high altitude compact power transmission lines, super conduct cable, to name just Yunnan Power Grid rolled out research results based on SOA SOA integration research and application a few. CSG has the largest and the most advanced safety and stability control system in China, grid-wide WAMS (wide area Integration research and application. The research results were SOA（Service-Oriented Architecture）is an effective technical solution to measurement system), and demonstration projects on CCHP (combined cold and hot water power generation) and micro-grid, MW awarded as “Top Ten Awards in Management Innovation and dig information resources and establish a sharing ,integrated and grade energy storage units. Application of new technology, new equipments has boosted technology development on one hand, and Technology Application in Power Sector in the 11th information synergy. SOA leverages dynamic WEB service flow interactive asked for more technical innovation on the other. models to address real-time response of massive data processing and Five-Year-Plan”. service access to boost platform’s capabilities under different business CSG’s principle in technology innovation is “using independent innovation to achieve breakthrough, support development and scenarios. guide future development”.CSG’s priority is to boost independent innovation competence, reinforcing scientific and innovation system, investing more on R&D, and talent pool. CSG’s R&D competence has been significantly boosted by these effective measures. Science and innovation achievement Science and innovation plan Innovation system Standard Projects and awards Patent CSG has identified the overall guiding principle in science and CSG’s R&D department plays the leading role in innovation, and Power Supply CSG is the founding member of 26 First Prize, National Science and In 2011, CSG has filed 533 patent technology development in the 12th Five-Year-Plan period and leverages market opportunities to work with Chinese leading international, national and industry 26 Technology Progress Award, 12 China applications, and has been awarded put forward 4 development objectives, specified 8 key science universities, research institutes, equipment suppliers to establish standards. Power Awards for Science, 1 China 191patents. In 2011, CSG’s patent and research sectors, 17 key research areas, 60 key research an open and extensive research and development. Patent Award. In 2011, CSG successfully application and licensed patent have applied 8 national-level scientific projects. been increased by 376% and 110% projects, 6 technology innovation platform program and plan CSG has perfected science and innovation scheme and put compared to 2010 respectively. implementation guarantee measures. incentive policies for science and innovation professionals in CSG establishes a scientific and comprehensive assessment index place, has established remuneration scheme based on R&D Economic Green and Harmonious system with the priority on improving independent innovation performances to involve every unit and every employee in capabilities, perfecting science and technology incentive and science and innovation. Independent Technology Development and Practice of Complete Set Design of HVDC Power performance assessment mechanism to improve science and CSG has implemented 3 key projects, namely “Development of Transmission was awarded the First prize, National Science and Technology Progress Award, the technology innovation impacts leading scientists”，“Recruitment and fostering of technical most prestigious honor in science and technology the company ever received since its founding. specialists” and “ Introduction of overseas high caliber Performance Environment Protection Society professionals” to optimize talent pool structure. Science and innovation investment CSG has established a long term effective mechanism and Establish Science and Technology Award Foundation constantly increases investment to science and innovation. In 2011, Thirteen members in the research team on Independent Technology CSG invested RMB 1.81 billion on research and development, Development and Practice of Complete Set Design of HVDC Power representing 0.46% main business revenue. Independent Technology Development and Practice of Transmission donated RMB5 million bonus to establish the Science and Complete Set Design of HVDC Power Transmission was based Technology Award Foundation. CSG top management recognized their nobility on the first DC power transmission demonstration project of and generosity and decided to inject another RMB 5 million into the foundation to Research and development investment (unit: RMB 100million) HVDC power transmission : ±500KV Guizhou-Guangdong award researchers in science and technology improvements. 30 Dual Loop DV power transmission . For the first time, the project has established HVDC power transmission integration 18.10 technology system, and has realized independent design of 20 complete set. The project has been awarded 9 invention Highway-development of power grid 14.00 15.80 10.50 patents, and 5 intellectual property software patents. R &D 10 7.40 findings achieved in the project have been successfully ±500Kv Guizhou ±800Kv –Guangdong Dual Loop Yunnan-Guangdong DC HV DC projects: Project Project applied to ±800 Kv UHV power transmission project, 0 Nuozhadu DC power transmission project, Xiluodu DC power The first HVDC power The first UHV power China’s high voltage and DC 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 （Year） transmission automation transmission automation power transmission automation transmission project. The success marks a breakthrough in demonstration project demonstration project demonstration project DC integration technology and has effectively facilitated the Year 2007 Year 2010 Year 2011 development of Chinese DC power transmission technology. ±800 UHV DC technology project lab ( Kunming, Yunnan) 31 A Myriad of Twinkling Lights, Great Rapport of CSG Power Supply 32 Economic Performance Power sold Main business revenue Total profit and taxation CSG’ s fundamental responsibility is to comply with the state electricity price policy, enhance operation 666.8 TWh 389.4 billion RMB 33.7 billion RMB and management, reduce cost , improve efficiency, ensure value preservation and appreciation of state-owned assets, create more value for stakeholders. Operation performance >> Law Compliance >> Cost reduction and efficiency improvement >> enhance cooperation with Hong Kong and Macau >> Facilitate GMS cooperation Facilitate power market development >> Serve economic and social development of the 5 provinces/regions Operation Performance Operating in compliance with law and regulation CSG has been operating steadily in accordance with laws and regulations, lowering cost and increasing returns, continuing to CSG complies with market economic rules and operates in strict accordance with laws and regulations. The company improve operation and management, ensuring and increasing the value of state-owned assets, and striving for value creation for reinforces prevention of and addressing legal risks, internal management, practices supervision on important decisions, stakeholders. In 2010, confronted with a complicated and volatile economic environment, frequent natural disasters and other facilitates zero-corruption and clean company operation and is committed to establishing CSG as the role model of a law negative factors, CSG held on to its mission, continued to improve operation and management, successfully accomplished the binding and ethical and trustworthy company. In 2011, CSG corporate long term rating was super AAA, no major breach of 2010 operation performance objectives made by the SASAC (State-owned Assets Supervision and Administration Commission) laws nor breach of rules occurred, no tax evasion happened. of the State Council and was awarded level A in the performance evaluation for the fourth consecutive year. Legal Risk Management CSG’s Ranking in Fortune 500 CSG has used legal compliance as an important measure to support the development strategy, improve management and ensure healthy development of the corporation. The company has perfected legal counsel system, legal offices, and Year 2007 Year 2008 Year 2009 Year 2010 Year 2011 made a comprehensive review on legal risks of main business operation to improve legal risks prevention and enhance control on legal risks. 2011 witnessed a significant drop of cases and economic losses. Precautions Beforehand In-process Control Actions Taken After Ranked Power Supply ranked ranked ranked ranked CSG conducts investigations of possible legal CSG provides legal services for major operation CSG settled 612 lawsuits in year 2011 237th 226th 185th 156th 149th risks, identifies the risks and sets up a risk decisions on a continuous basis CSG solved all the major legal disputes left over database. CSG examined 142,639 contracts and proposed more from history and recouped 2.507 billion RMB for CSG examines economic contracts, rules Identify than 6,357 major amendment suggestions in 2011; Control CSG and regulations as well as important Analyze CSG examined 2,205 regulations and proposed 2,380 Manage Economic decisions, with 100% audit rate. suggestions for revision; participated in 404 important CSG has set up a legal consulting decisions and formulated 1,165 legal opinion letters Performance mechanism for key major projects. CSG was fully involved in the implementation of CSG puts forward specific plans to fulfill the various kinds of reform programs Fifth Five-year Legal Popularization Plan, With 100% contract fulfillment rate enhances the publicity and education of law. Total electricity sold: 666.8TWh Main business revenue RMB389.4 billion increase than that of 2010 (unit:100 million KWh) increase compared to that of 2010 (unit:RMB100 million) Green and Harmonious Strengthening Internal Control 3894 8000 4000 3665 6668 CSG actively strengthens internal operation 6027 2842 3108 CSG audited 6000 3000 5239 2563 control, raises resiliency against risks, and gives a Environment Protection Society 4597 4826 full play to the role of auditing in safeguarding 2893projects Audited asset valued at RMB 9967.41billion 4000 2000 sound development of enterprises. CSG investigated 2000 1000 CSG taken National Audit Office’s rectification of 301 related transactions corrected RMB 0 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 (year) 0 the problems discovered in auditing as an CSG proposed Audit 1.50million non-compliance 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 (year) opportunity, CSG establishes a joint-action mechanism and analyzes 53 typical problems from 3180 suggestions managerial achieved cost reduction of RMB ten aspects in an effort to improve management. CSG identified 2.13million CSG has established a “holistic auditing” system. 118egal risks Total pre-tax profits RMB33.7billion Total assets RMB527.5 billion Supported by Auditing Association, 512 increase than that of 2010 (unit:RMB100 million) 7.48% increase than that of 2010 (unit:RMB100 million) professional auditing personnel from CSG have been selected to participate in on-site auditing. 400 8000 Warnings and Reflections 372 CSG is dedicated to scientific auditing 337 320 295 300 6000 improvement, and founded CSG Auditing , an On May 20th, 2011, National Audit Office notified CSG of its existing problems, for 5275 4908 208 4404 internal auditing journal and has expanded the example, CSG failed to pay all employees’ income tax in accordance with regulations. 200 4000 3837 3183 coverage of Audit Information Management CSG attached great importance to this problem and rectified the problem immediately by paying back all related fees. CSG takes NAO’S audits as a good opportunity to 100 2000 System in power supply bureaus at all levels. CSG strengthen internal management, focusing on system development and improving the has held 4 sessions of audit training courses, with 0 0 system and mechanism to attain the solution of the problems. 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 (year) 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 (year) more than 300 auditors attendance. 35 A Myriad of Twinkling Lights, Great Rapport of CSG Economic Performance 36 Cost Reduction and Efficiency Improvement Supervision of Major Decisions CSG sets up a centralized funds management system, incorporates comprehensive budget analysis, promotes centralized accounting, alleviates electricity price conflict, increases risk prevention, and realizes the goal of cost reduction. CSG improves the supervision and inspection methods, puts forward policy making system overseeing important decisions, key appointments and dismissals, important project arrangements and large fund operation. It steps up efforts to promote a transparent operating framework and strengthens the control and supervision of power. Over the year, no cases of Reduce non-urgent cost projects Speed up asset centralized management , violation against the collective decision-making system have been found. adjust internal asset Unit power supply cost reduced surplus and deficit to channel in financing RMB1.7/KKWh compared to budget CSG intensified inspection and supervision on RMB1.3 billion capital cost was saved. key decisions such as transformation of economic development model, energy saving and emission reduction. State Assets Strengthen risk Practice strigent project Administration Committee Efforts speaks highly management on electricity charge Cost Reduction costing management of these efforts made by CSG in these aspects. CSG step up efforts to inspect and 99.92% electricity charge have been and Atcual project settlement achieved 12.5% Supervision collected,and default payment supervise issues in relation to decreased12.3% compared to that of 2010 Efficiency Improvement decrease than budget, and RMB1.33 billion. of Major construction and “private coffers”. CSG strengthened inspection on fixed asset Decisions CSG has sorted out 30 “private investment, sent specialized inspectors to coffers”, involving 66.67 million RMB. Pracrice centralized procurement Make an inventory of warehouses Power Supply supervise key projects, and has established a 61% materials were centrally procured, achieving Inventory reduced 40% compared to that of network of inspectors at all levels of CSG. CSG RMB 1.7 billion in level one material procurement 2010, and revived idle materials valued at inspected 32 fixed asset investment projects through centralized tendering and bidding process, RMB 1.47 billion and recovered RMB 350 and sent out 174 notifications for rectification. million from recycled materials. representing RMB 460 million saving compared to that of 2010. Anti-corruption and Self-regulation CSG emphasizes the importance of anti-corruption campaign, promotes the development of a mechanism to punish Economic Promoting Power Market Development Performance corrupted officials and fight corruption through educatiion, regulation, supervision, punishment systems as well as publicizing virtues of integrity and self-regulation. CSG has been maintaining market order, expanding the power market and promoting sustained, healthy and harmonious development of the power market. Can’t be Don’t dare Don’t want to be Green and Harmonious corrupted to be corrupted corrupted Developing CSG coordinates the relationship with the government, power plants and customers, ensured the interests of power plants and customers a healthy mindset Establishing a strict Imposing deterring while pursuing its own profits, and wins the understanding and support from them. management mechanism penalties on corruption CSG played a coordination role in the signing of the West-to-East Power Transmission Agreement for the 12th Five-Year Plan and developed a Environment Protection Society mature transaction mechanism for the power in western China.Under the coal and hydro power shortage, CSG achieved west-to-east power Highlighting zero-corruption Setting up an accountability system Regulating letters and visits education of managerial personnel for anti-corruption management as well as case management transmission of 96.9TWh. CSG held corruption-free management seminars (with CSG has issued 12, 387 notices of accountability, thus allocating Carefully handling letters and visits, carrying out 1,811 participants) responsibilities to each level. investigations and research, and supervising the implementation of letters and visits Deepening corruption-free Establishing a comprehensive punishment education for all staff members and prevention mechanism Punishing any violations of disciplines and regulations in a CSG held Disciplinary Education Month activities on the CSG has laid out framework of punishment and prevention, specified determined manner theme of “Zero corruption and Self Regulation”, and anti-corruption core content, namely ,“Five Mechanisms, Three 63 officials was penalized from the Administration or organized film watching activities and lectures on Guarantees and One Platform”, and has incorporated the framework into the Party, and 9 enterprises guilty of bribery were related themes. business operation blacklisted. Facilitating the building of Setting up an assessment mechanism a honest and clean system and strengthening supervision on officials New achievements have been made in facilitating the CSG has incorporated officials’ financial status, such as personal property, building of a clean system income etc. into the analysis. Officials must be under the guidance of the Party. 86 high-level officials have received probation assessment and 149 managerial personnel’s performances have been evaluated. Efficiency Supervision CGS carries out efficiency supervision in key operational and managerial areas, with the focus on decision making system, ratifications in construction, goods procurement bidding. Over the years, CSG has inspected 919 projects, provided 1,230 suggestions, avoided RMB 14.332 million economic losses and recouped RMB 14.692 million losses, thus, in total saving RMB100.749 million. 37 A Myriad of Twinkling Lights, Great Rapport of CSG Economic Performance 38 Serving the Development of the Five Provinces and Region Enhance Cooperation with Hong Kong and Macao CSG improves the regional power exchange cooperation model in which governments play the leading role and enterprises play CSG has implemented electricity trading with Hong Kong and Macau, and has expanded cooperation scope with Hong Kong Special supporting role on the basis of west-to-east power transmission platform.The company coordinates power supply to the eastern Administrative Region and Macau Special Administrative Region, with an aim to complement each other and realize mutual development.. China and western China,and has made positive contribution to stable and rapid economic and social development in the five The first Guangdong-Hong Kong-Macau Power Industry Summit held in provinces and region. In 2011, CSG strengthened power supply adjustment among the five provinces and regions, and reduced Macau in 2011. The Memorandum of Understanding on Establishing a 11.5TWh power supply from Guizhou and 2.8TWh power supply from Yunnan. In 2011, Huizhou and Yunnan supplied 89TWh High-level Communication and Liaison Mechanism between CSG, CLP power to Guangdong and 7.4TWh to Guangxi. and CEM” was signed by the three power companies. CSG made positive contribution to Hong Kong’s and Macau’s economic prosperity. CSG worked with CLP in a plan to supply power to Hong Kong from Facilitate Guangdong’ s industry transformation and upgrading nuclear power plants, and launched a five-year-plan to develop Guangdong Power Grid constantly reinforces power grid construction to support Guangdong’s effort in Shenzhen Power Supply Co.,Ltd as a first rate one and used CLP as a Zhao Jianguo, CSG board chairman met industry transformation and moving up the industry chain. In 2011, CSG invested RMB38.75 billion in benchmark. Fernando Chui, Chief Executive of Macau SAR fixed asset investment, and sold 404.6TWh electricity, and basically guaranteed orderly power supply. In 2011, CSG supplied 3.076TWh, representing 70% of Macau’s total CSG’s investment created 3,508 job opportunities, and has facilitated Guangdong’s industry electricity consumption . Since CSG started power supply to Macau in transformation and Happy Guangdong Mission. GuangDong CSG has proudly kept 100% power supply 1984, CSG’s power supply to Macau increased more than 65 times. reliability in its 28 years power supply to Macau Power Supply CSG worked closely with CEM on exchanges and cooperation at regular Facilitate Northern Bay Economic Zone development intervals, and facilitiate construction of the 2nd 220kV power Zhuhai Power Supply Bureau started power supply to Macau in 1980s and today, CSG has supplied power to Macau for 28 years. In Taking Northern Bay industry cluster into consideration, Guangxi Power Grid Co., Ltd made plans and transmission line. the past 28 years, CSG has constantly enhanced project construction construction of power grids in 6 cities of the Northern Bay, reinforced power grid investment, and and equipment maintenance and improved its power supply improved power supply network at different voltages. Guangxi Power Grid Co., Ltd established an EHV capability. Zhuhai Power Supply Bureau set up a 4-person patrol Economic power supply network consisting of 8 stations, 6 power plants, 6 vertical, and 6 horizontal networks team to patrol the 6 km power cable connecting Zhuhai to Macau on with the capacity of 10 MW. The efforts have effectively improved power grid’s power supply capacity 7/24 basis and does fiber on-line tempreture check at every five Performance and reliability and have provided robust driving force for Northern Bay Economic Zone. In 2011, GuangXi minutes interval. At 9AM and 8PM every day, power dispatching Guangxi Power Grid was awarded “Collective Prize in Making Excellent Contribution to Serving Western team in Zhuhai and Macau will make telephone calls to update power China Development”. supply monitoring progress to each party. Zhuhai Power Supply The first Guangdong-Hong Kong-Macau Power Industry Summit Bureau has always set aside power capapcity for Macau and has Facilitate Yunnan’s development as a bridgehead achieved 100% reliability in the past 3 decades. Green and Harmonious Yunnan Power Grid gives full play to Yunnan’s advantage in natural resources and geographic location Boost GMS (Greater Mekong Sub-region) Cooperation and integrates power grid development transformation with Yunnan’s development. The grid set up 7 taskforces and implemented research on electricity industry development, power grid construction, Environment Protection Society power price policy, Going Global strategy, completed power demand and supply analysis in the 12th YunNan Under the guiding principle of “equality and mutual benefits”, CSG plays an active role as the nation’s executive agent in the GMS Power Five-Year-Plan period, adjusted local power grid planning and gave full support to priority areas Cooperation Framework. including Ruili’s development. CSG imported 2.423 TWh electricity from Myanmar, CSG communicates and cooperates with GMS countries on Myanmar representing 40.9% increase than that of 2010. Support Guizhou’s further development power grid project construction, hydro power development, CSG sold 4.473 TWh electricity to Vietnam, representing power trading, and power grid operation model.CSG has 20.66% decrease compared to that of 2010 In 2011, Guizhou Power Grid invested RMB 15.38 billion in fixed assets, transmitted 27.2TWh power in reached consenus with GMS member countries in terms of Vietnam Advance feasibility study on 500 kV power connection West-to-East Power Transmission Project, and helped Guizhou to achieve 15% GDP growth, and 27.5% in an all-round manner enhancing cooperation, establish high-level visits and long-term industry output growth. Power sector continued to play the leading role in the province as backbone cooperation framework agreements. CSG reached consensus with Thailand and re-started industry in 2011. GuiZhou CSG participated in the drafting processes of a number of key Thailand 500kV power connection project documents, including : A New Ten Year ( 2012-2022) Strategic Framework for CMS and Report on Chinese’s Cooperation with CSG signed a MOU on Related issues on Power Projects in Facilitate Hainan’s development as an International Tourism Island GMS Countries. Northern Laos. Hainan Power Grid promoted construction and upgrading of urban and rural power grid , achieved the CSG supplied 0.117TWh electricity to Laos and CSG organized Consultation Conference on GMS Power Project breakthrough of upgrading 220kV main network from a single-loop one to a double-loop one. In 2011, guaranteed power supply to construction of China-Laos Development and advocated to establish an internal Hainan Power Grid invested RMB 2.94billion on fixed assets, sold 13.795TWh electricity and provided Laos Electrified Railway Project and the country’s social and coordination mechanism to enable Chinese enterprises’ economic development . reliable power supply to Hainan’s development as an international tourism island. participation in GMS power supply cooperation, with an aim to Conducted research on Scientific Plan and Franchise HaiNan deliver necessary services for Chinese enterprises’ investment Model of Lao’s National Grid and project development in GMS power projects. Completed Phongsaly village electrification project, Laos. 39 A Myriad of Twinkling Lights, Great Rapport of CSG Economic Performance 40 Green and Environment Protection The 2011 West-to-East Helped Customers save Environment friendly power Power Transmission : dispatching helped a saving of 2.27 million tons of standard coal. CSG is committed to a green power grid and facilitates community-wide energy saving and emission 55.0 TWh 1.975 TWh electricity 2.27 million tons reduction. CSG’s mission is to facilitate a coordinated and sustainable development on corporate growth, social development and environment protection. Energy saving and emission reduction at Power supply side >> Energy saving and emission reduction at power grid side >> Energy saving and emission reduction performances Energy saving and emission reduction at customer side >> Green development 2020 Across Chinese the globe, climate change, environmental pollution and energy shortage are exacerbating. Worldwide extreme weather power sector responded positively to the state’s call on energy saving and emission reduction, and met events, such as heat, draught, flood and severe cold, occur more frequently. Desertification, deforestation, rising sea level, the target set during the 11th Five-Year-Plan period. land and air pollution not only pose threats to human health, but also causes a series of social problems. For developing countries, Based on SERC’s Update on Energy Saving and Emission Reduction achieved by Power Sector in year 2010 and the 11th Five-Year-Plan environmental and energy issues become more urgent while maintaining social and economic development, with the transferring of high Period, a total `capacity of 76.83GW coal-fired power plants was shut down during the 11th Five-Year-Plan period, exceeded 26.83 GW energy consumption and polluting industries to developing countries. Coping with environmental pollution and climate change has become a capacity reduction than the quota set by the central government .Net coal consumption rate of Chinese power sector ranked top in the common issue for all nations in the world. world, in 2010, average net coal consumption rate reduced 37 gram/KWh, service power rate reduced by 0.44% and comprehensive line The size of the world's population has continued to increase—from 5 billion in 1987 to 7 billion in 2011, which only takes 24 years. According loss rate reduced by 0.68% compared to that of 2005. to United Nation forecast, the world’s population will be over 9 billion in 2050. With the increase of human activities, global sustainable Limited by Chinese energy resources, Coal-fired power generation contributes 70% of energy sources in China. In 2010, coal-fired power development will become a very prominent issue. plants consumed 54.24% of total coal production in China, and discharged 50% of Carbon dioxide, 42.5% of sulfur dioxide in China. In every stage of its production and consumption, power sector has a long way to go in energy consumption reduction and pollutants reduction. Drought Flooding and Dust Comparative study in per capital power consumption China is at the industrialization and urbanization process, and has water logging between China and key developed countries （unit: KWh） rigid power demands because of it unbalanced regional development. 20000 Power Supply The country is confronted with formidable challenges in economic 13503 development, poverty elimination and livelihood improvement. Per 15000 8108 capital power consumption in five provinces/regions in Southern 10000 7091 7739 6114 Past Reports have shown that living standards in most countries have been rising and China equals to 22% of that of US, and 35% of that of Japan in 2008. 5000 3483 converging for several decades now. Yet the 2011 Report projects a disturbing reversal of those The new round of Western China Development, combined with a 0 Economic trends if environmental deterioration and social inequalities continue to intensify number of significant government strategies including Pearl River USA Japan Germany France Britain China ——“Human Development Report 2011”，The United Nations Development Programme(UNDP) Performance Delta Development Guide, Northern Bay Economic Ring Development Source: Data on developed countries is from 2008 IEA data; Data Guide will create sustained power demands in CSG’s service area in the on China is from 2011 China Electricity Council data. coming years. Green and China is fully committed to energy saving and environmental CSG Comparative study between Chinese per capita always subordinates its own interests to the general interests of the country. CSG abides by the principle of “Serving protection, embarking on a green, low-carbon and major resources with global per capital resources （global average =100%） government, serving communities and serving clients” and gives full play to its role in optimized resources distribution, and sustainable growth path. It has set improving natural environment and Environment Protection 100 put national policies in energy saving, emission reduction, put low carbon economic development in place, facilitates power grid’s coping with climate change as a basic binding indicator of per capita resources（%） 79 transformation to a smarter, highly efficient, more reliable and greener one. CSG has made specific energy saving and emission reduction social-economic development and incorporates it into middle and long 80 strategies to shoulder its own obligations in power source side and clients side, and has played a guiding role in helping upstream power term economic and social development. In 2011, Chinese government 60 plants to adjust energy mix, and has facilitated its downstream enterprises in its energy consumption model . CSG works closely with its pledged to: lower carbon dioxide emission gross domestic product (GDP) 40 40 upstream and downstream enterprises to create a green industry chain, low carbon society for a green life. per unit by 17% below 2010 levels, increase the share of non-fossil fuels 25 20 Harmonious 6.5 6.1 CSG’ Green Action: CSG’s Green Action is based on the country’s 12th Five-Year-Plan and the country’s 2020 target in energy saving and in primary energy consumption to around 11.4%, and increase forest emission reduction. CSG is always at the forefront of energy saving and emission reduction, and makes every effort to transform itself to a Society stock volume by 600 million cubic meters and forest coverage by 21.66%. coal arable land water natural gas petroleum “Smart, efficient, reliable and green” power grid, to minimize impact on resources and environment, and is dedicated to delivering robust The above targets have been listed in China’s 12th Five Year Plan. Source: The Ministry of Land and Resources, People’s Republic of China service and guarantee to sustainable development. China remains the world’s largest developing country and its resources Based on CSG’s forecast, energy saving and emission reduction potentials in its power production and consumption in the five provinces and regions are: and energies per capita are lower than the world’s average. Power structure of key countries （power generation :percentage） Among the 15 top GDP per capita countries in the world, fossil fuel makes 39% power source side 8% power grid side 53% clients side 3 2 1 1 23 7 16 1 5 up more than 60% of their electricity generation in twelve countries, 4 2 1 11 15 16 19 which is closely related to their energy structure or international energy 2 21 23 supply. In 2010, coal consumption for electricity generation in China 7 8 4 18 76 Establish a “Smart, efficient, reliable and green” power grid accounts for 54.24% of the total consumption. In the next few years when 82 81 81 73 69 66 66 73 coal is still the largest source of power generation, various phases of Serve the government Serve power sources Serve clients electricity generation and consumption will face difficult challenges to 12 11 CSG put national policies in energy saving , emission CSG provides a range of power source CSG perfects energy saving information lower energy consumption and reduce emission of pollutants. reduction, low carbon economic development in connections and complementary peak-load platform and provides a wide range of Mexico India UK USA Japan Germany Russia France China place and advices the central government in related regulation services, energy-saving power energy saving services to promote smarter Resource: “Research on the Impact of New Energy Sources Development and Note: Chinese statistics was from year 2011’s data. policy making process and assists the government in generation dispatching services to promote and greener energy consumption . Comparative Analysis of their Carbon Effects” (Research findings from CSG) coal-fired power hydro power nuclear power Other facilitating energy structure adjustment and clean energy development and efficient , clean economic transformation. production of conventional energy sources 43 A Myriad of Twinkling Lights, Great Rapport of CSG Green and Environment Protection 44 Energy saving and emission reduction at power source side CSG plays a platform role as an optimized energy sources distributor and is committed to interests of energy and power plan Facilitate structure optimization of demand-side installed units in the five provinces and regions. In its power grid plan and construction, CSG takes power source layout and structure adjustment into full consideration, and attaches priority to serving government and power plants and facilitates energy saving CSG has taken effective measures to implement the central government policy in clean energy. The and emission reduction at power source side. company encourages power plants to expand clean energy generation power mix, and is dedicated to carbon dioxide emission reduction. Under CSG’s service area, installed capacity of clean energy is 45.2%, Resources at the five much better than that of national average 27.62%. Among them, installed capacity of hydro power is provinces and regions Our attitude 38.3%, higher than that of national average 21.35%. Water resource is renewable energy , 37% of water resources 0.147TW hydro power resources to be Hydro have been developed, and there is a great potential to develop Newly added installed capacity in China, 2011 ( 10,000 KW) Newly added installed capacity in CSG’s service area ( 10,000KW) developed, accounting for 27% of total hydro power it. CSG support energy structure optimization, and vigorously power sources in China. develop hydro power. Coal plays a main role in China’s power development. It is very difficult to 90 billion tons of accumulative coal reserve, 12.3 billion tons of coal reserve to be explored, change its coal-based energy structure before year 2020. CSG supports the 175 66 Coal 109 Power Supply central government in clean and efficient coal-fired power development and 1.86% 4.83% accounting for 7.5% of total coal reserve in China. assists the government in shutting down inefficient coal-fired power units. 1215 7.97% 12.93% 6203 801 66.00% 392 58.55% Nuclear Installed nuclear power capacity is 6.12MW, CSG supports government’s nuclear power development and 1806 28.65% accounting for 48.6% of total installed nuclear energy structure optimization under the overarching principle of 19.21% power power capacity in China absolute safety . Economic Performance 9.5MW off-shore wind power to be developed, Wind accounting for 2.1% of the nation’s total, 113 MW Hydro power Hydro power power on-shore wind power to be developed , accounting for Coal-fired power Coal-fired power 38% of the nation’s total. Nuclear power Nuclear power Green and Wind power and other Wind power and other CSG speeds up its efforts in low carbon economic development in its service area, and facilitates energy saving, emission reduction, protects Solar 27MW solar power to be developed, accounting for Environment Protection 1.2 % of the nation’s total regional environment, improves power grid’s capacity in 93.99MW newly added installed capacity 13.68MW newly added installed capacity power interconnection with new energy including wind power and solar energy and distributed energy. 5MW biomass energy to be developed, accounting for Other 12.5% of the nation’s total, 2.06 MW geothermal power alternative to be developed, accounting for 35.4% of the nation’s West-to-East Hydropower Transmission energy total, 1.04MW ocean energy to be developed, Harmonious accounting for 4.8% of the nation’s total CSG gives full play to hydro power, and has facilitated cascade Hydro power generation in CSG’s service area （Unit：100 Million KWh） comprehensive hydro power development. The company Total 1669.94 1578.05 Society conducted seasonal hydro power consumption research on Tianshengqiao Tianshengqiao Longtan 193.42 Longtan 150.92 southwest China and has facilitated west-to-east power Hainan 18.13 Hainan 15.18 transmission construction and capacity development. Guizhou 244.20 Guizhou 202.64 Based on CSG’s research, the most significant approach in realizing CSG’s hydro power generation is 157.8KW, equivalent to 48.13 energy low carbon economic development is to facilitate energy saving and million tons of standard coal saving, 128.02 million tons of Clean use , Yunnan 685.71 Yunnan 807.66 saving Develop Develop high Develop emission reduction at the whole community. Measures to be taken carbon dioxide emission reduction and 920,000 tons of sulfur at the hydro nuclear new efficient power energy include: industry structure adjustment, policy support, science and dioxide emission reduction. whole power coal Guangxi 267.48 Guangxi 239.46 communities technology innovation, and significant reduction of unit production The West-to-East Hydropower Transmission amounted to 4 5 2 3 capacity power consumption during industrialization stage. CSG’s 96.9TWh, in which, 55 TWh was hydro power, equivalent to Guangdong 261.00 Guangdong 162.19 1 Source: Comparative Analysis on the Impact of New research indicates that, in sequence of low carbon-friendly energy, 16.78 million tons of standard coal saving, 44.64 million tons of 2010 2011 （Year） high efficient and clean use of coal ranks top, followed by hydro carbon dioxide emission reduction and 3.2 million tons of Note: CSG’s hydro power generation was adversely effected Energy Development on China’s Energy Structure power, nuclear power, and new energy (including wind power, sulfur dioxide emission reduction. by insufficient rainfall in 2011. and Its Low Carbon Benefits ( Research findings of CSG’s research project ) biomass, and solar power). 45 A Myriad of Twinkling Lights, Great Rapport of CSG Green and Environment Protection 46 Clean coal-fired power development Energy saving-based power generation dispatching CSG supports government’ policy in differentiated electricity prices, and facilitates power plants in shutting down inefficient AS a central enterprise, CSG plays a leading role in energy saving and emission reduction. CSG takes the initiative to launch coal-fired power generation units and switching to high parameter and highly efficient power generation equipments. energy saving-based power generation dispatching in China and has laid a solid foundation for green development. Year 2011 representing the first year in rolling out energy saving-based power generation dispatching grid-wide, under the In 2011, the average power consumption rates of coal-fired power generation units was 305 grams/KWh, representing In total, inefficient generation backdrop of a severe power shortage, CSG established a sound mechanism on energy saving-based power generation 4grams/KWh reduction compared to that of 2010, fossil fuel consumption for unit power generation and power sale is units with the total capacity dispatching. 211 grams/KWh standard coal, 42 grams/KWh lower than the national average. of 17.24MW has been shut Put policy on supporting efficient coal-fired power generation units in place, by the end of 2011, CSG has assisted the down. governments in shutting down inefficient generation units with the total capacity of 17.24 MW. A sound organization mechanism CSG complies with electricity tariff for desulfurized power generation units and facilitate desulfurization of combustion generators in its service areas and reduces sulfur dioxide emission. 235 real-time desulfurization monitoring units have been installed grid wide, achieving 100% access rate. Average operation rate of desulfurization devices was 98.7%, with 17.24 MW Provincial/regional taskforce on energy saving-based power generation dispatching, established by provincial and regional governments Taskforce on energy saving-based power generation dispatching established by power plants 95.1% average desulfurization rate and a total desulfurization of 4.05 million tons. Power Supply 3 mechanisms A scientific management mechanism on energy Government: Organized and implemented energy saving-based power generation dispatching within its jurisdiction saving-based areas; compiled management regulations on power generation dispatching power CSG: coordinated specific work in energy saving-based power generation dispatching in its service areas and made generation technical codes on energy saving-based power generation dispatching. dispatching Power plants: supported the governments and power distributors in energy saving-based power generation dispatching Economic Performance A state-of-art technical support scheme Established an arrangement system on power generation plan, on-line monitoring system of flue gas desulfurization, on-line monitoring system of thermal load of CHP units, and information publishing system. Green and Environment Protection Support nuclear power development CSG and its subsidiaries in the five provinces/regions have established Nuclear power is a highly sensitive industry. Chinese government acts in a more cautious manner in nuclear power The installed nuclear power taskforces on energy saving-based power generation dispatching. Power development after the Fukushima accident. The government is speeding up plans on nuclear safety rules and capacity was 6.12MW generation dispatching division has been set up in the CSG General Dispatching adjustment plans on nuclear power mid-to-long term development plan and is dedicated to improving the capacity in Center for a reinforced coordination and a better service. Coal consumption of power supply (unit: gram/KWh) confronting extreme natural disasters and emergency response capacity to ensure safe operation of nuclear power CSG worked with government departments in compiling schedules of power Harmonious 6.12 stations. 370 generators, combination solution , and economic compensation plans, Society Chinese government’s policy on nuclear power is to put absolute safety at top priority, and with priority areas on design MW organized dispatching offices at different levels in arranging power 360 and construction of the third generation of nuclear power stations. CSG develops nuclear power in its service in generations, carried out quantitative analysis of equivalent load rate to accordance with the central government’s plan and development. By the end of 2011, the installed nuclear power 350 345 enhance assessment on energy-saving based power generation dispatching. capacity was 6.12MW in CSG’s service area, accounting for 48.6% of the nation’s total. CSG established technical support system to publish technical support system 340 340 343 335 on on-line monitoring of coal consumption, on-line monitoring of 330 337 330 desulfurization and small hydro power dispatching information. 331 CSG timely disclosed information on energy-saving based power generation 320 325 dispatching by official website, news conference, and plants-grid joint meetings. 2008 2009 2010 2011 (Year) CSG timely disclosed information on energy-saving based power generation national consumption dispatching by official website, news conference, and plants-grid joint meetings. consumption in CSG’s service area CSG practice energy-saving based power generation dispatching; the company achieved a total reduction of 9.27 million tons of standard coal, equivalent to 24.04 million tons of carbon dioxide emission reduction. 47 A Myriad of Twinkling Lights, Great Rapport of CSG Green and Environment Protection 48 Grid-side energy saving and emission reduction Support New Energy Development Construction of a green power grid CSG has gradually improved energy mix, and comprehensive energy development, has increased the ratio of renewable CSG incorporates community requirements and environment requirements in power grid plan and construction, facilitates energy and new energy in installed units. CSG has reinforced construction of coordinated projects on clean energy, and has application of new environment-friendly technology , minimizes resources use, and minimize impacts on community and enhanced the grid capacity to receive new energy (wind energy, biomass, solar energy, for instance) and renewable energy. environment, protects bio-diversity for a harmonious co-existence of power grid construction and operation with the mother nature and communities. Support New Energy Development CSG introduced environment protection permit in power grid project. 100% projects have passed environment impact assessment, no breach on environment protection occurred in 2011. CSG protects arable land and saves land use by optimization of power transmission lines and innovative power transmission technology. Solar energy CSG adopts tailor-made solutions to reduce noises from outdoor substations and indoor substations. power generation Wind Power Ensure national energy safety , Green and renewable energy ensure future strategic energy, green Develop wind power generation by Power Supply energy taking local circumstances into Develop solar power generation by consideration Plan taking local circumstances into Develop Wind Power Farm at Guishan, CSG makes full use of mountain , and consideration Zhuhai city uncultivated land as power Develop office building PV projects at Newly added 724,700KWh installed transmission pathways to reduce line wind power capacity, increasing Guigang city, Guangxi Autonomous 59.55% than that of the previous Land corridor and save arable land. Region year. saving Technology Economic Added 20,000Kw solar power generation CSG adopts leading technologies like DC Performance power transmission and compact power transmission line, multi circuit transmission Biomass power lines to reduce substation and line generation corridor footprint. Green and Renewable energy industry encouraged and supported by the Indoor substation Preparation stage Chinese government CSG installed mufflers at fans for Schedule construction arrangement and Reasonable deployment of biomass Environment Protection transformer’s vibration attenuation, avoid construction in wildlife reserves and power generation Support interconnection power installed absorption walls at main breeding seasons generation of the biggest biomass Nosie transformer chamber and sound insulation Ecology power generation project-Guangdong reduction doors and windows protection Completion stage Yuedian Biomass Power Generation Restore natural landscape and domestic Project, with the total installed Outdoor substation waste and disposals are treated in a capacity of 2X 50,000KWh Acoustical enclosures are set to classified manner. reduce noises form transformers Harmonious Society The first “Green Roof” which generates power in CSG CSG’s first 3C green demonstration projects starts construction On 28th, Sept, 2011, the phase one PV power generation project officially started operation. This is On 28th, Nov, 2011, CSG’s first 3C Green Demonstration Project -110kV Jianfeng Substation officially started construction in Guangzhou. The the first pilot project of CSG and is built on the rooftop of Guigang Power Supply Office Building. The substation is called 3C Green substation because of its state-of-art Computer technology, Communication Technology and Control technology. project supplies power to office building lighting and air conditioning. With a total area of 300 square The substation used green construction materials based on fly ash and slags to replace materials from red brick, concrete, and cement. meters, the project is composed of 90 PV panels, is pollution-free, noise-free, and does not consume Substation’s rooftops are covered by green vegetations, all electronic appliances are housed in the power distribution building. The building fossil fuel and does not occupy land resources. The total size of the project will be 1 million KWh, the looks the same with ordinary one. installed capacity of phase one is 250,000KW, with designed operation capacity of 25 years, and All equipments are low noise ones, main noise sources are enclosed and treated, ventilation spaces at the external walls are reduced to annual power generation capacity of 100,000KWH. The estimated total power generation capacity will minimize noise leakage. Noise measured at the substation walls is 40 decibels, significantly lower than the national standards-60 decibels. amount to 2.5 million KWh, and will effectively reduce coal and carbon dioxide emission. 49 A Myriad of Twinkling Lights, Great Rapport of CSG Green and Environment Protection 50 Implement key projects to boost “West-to-East” power transmission Energy efficient and environment-friendly operation On Dec 2, 2011, Xinuodu Project and Nuozhadu Project, national key projects during the “12th Five-year Plan”, began their Lower Line-loss construction and their operation was due in 2014. The Projects were an important action of CSG to implement the national CSG has adopted unified standard of line-loss theoretical calculation and Overall Line-loss Rate （Unit: %） strategy of “transmitting the electricity from the west to the east of China”. They were also a strategic act to upgrade the power carried out the calculation for the main and supporting grid. With 8 transmission technology of China. line-loss management in four divisions, it has continuously reduced the 6.9 6.68 6.35 6.28 power loss in transmission and transformation. 6 5.35 In 2011, the grid-wide line-loss rate was 5.35 %, 0.93% lower than The general installed capacity of 4 Xinuodu right bank hydropower plant Xinuodu DC Project previous year. 2 The line-loss rate improvement saved 0.66 TWh power saving. Compared 6.30million KW Total length2x1251km 0 to that of 2010, our power saving in 2011 was equivalent to 2 million tons Transmission capacity6.4million KW 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 (Year) of standard coal, and reduction of 5.31 million tons of CO2. Rated voltage±500KV Since 2006 (the starting year of the 11th Five-year Plan), it has reduced line-loss through better management, which contributed to 2.67 TWh Power Supply power saving, equivalent to 8.4 million tons of standard coal and ZhaoTong reduction of 21.91 million tons of CO2. GuiZhou YunNan Proper waste treatment GuangXi GuangDong CSG follows the roadmap of “control, reduction and recycling” and applies Economic PuEr Performance CongHua the circular economy concept to the whole process of power grid operation. It spreads and adopts new and environment friendly JiangMen technologies to reduce the waste. Green and Nuozhadu DC Project Abiding by the national and local laws and regulations on environment, it keeps the waste level within the national standard and prevents the waste The general installed capacity of Total length1434km from polluting the soil and underground water. Environment Protection Nuozhadu hydropower plant Transmission capacity5million KW The workers were collecting the used wires. It filters the impurities in the waste oil produced by transformers to turn it 5.85million KW Rated voltage±800KV into insulating oil. In 2011, the recycling rate of the waste oil in Recycled SF6 （Unit：kg） transformers was nearly 100%. Roadmap of Xinuodu Project and Nuozhadu Project All the departments and corporations under the umbrella of CSG have 6000 5000 paid great attention to the recycling of SF6. CSG implemented the SF6 CDM 4000 Harmonious project to improve the recycling of SF6, which was 100% in 2011. 3200 3000 1 Society The Projects will increase the capacity of west to east power Background information 1164 transmission by 11.40 million KW. They will account for 66% of the increased capacity of 0 Transmission capacity CGS to transmit the electricity from the west to the east Xinuodu DC Project Note: SF6 is a greenhouse gas. It is stable and can exist in the atmosphere for EHV Power CSG Power Yunnan Shenzhen Power during the “12th Five-year Plan”. and Nuozhadu DC Project 3,200 years without decomposition. Its greenhouse effect is 24,900 times that of Transmission Generation Power Grid Supply Bureau Company Company They refer to the ±800 kv DC transmission project from CO2 of the same amount. 2 Pu’er, Yunnan Province to Jiangmen, Guangdong Upon operation, their annual capacity will be equivalent to Province and dual loop ±500 kv DC transmission Energy efficiency 16.68 million tons of standard coal saving. project from Xinuodu Right Bank Hydropower Station and environmental protection They will reduce CO2 emission by 44.38 million tons. to Guangdong Province respectively, with a total Shenzhen Power Supply Co.,Ltd recycle and reuse waste in a highly efficient manner investment of 33 billion Yuan. The Projects make use of the hydropower resources in Yunnan Province to 3 Innovation 100% technologies of Xinuodu DC Project is generate economic benefits. They will satisfy the increasing power demand of eastern Provinces in China and reduce the workload of transporting coal Shenzhen Power Supply Co., Ltd recycles and reuses waste in a highly efficient manner. In 2011, a total 399 tons of tower materials, ground wires, and cable were recycled, 325 tons of waste materials were reused, representing 81.45% recycling rate. Solid wastes that cannot be recycled are sold to certified disposal treatment companies. developed and owned by CSG. from the north to the south of China. 51 A Myriad of Twinkling Lights, Great Rapport of CSG Green and Environment Protection 52 Customer Side Energy CSG endeavors to transform from a pure power supplier to a comprehensive energy supply service provider by taking “Green Support electric vehicle (EV) Action”. It provides energy saving service package to customers through platform like Comprehensive Energy Corp of CSG. By practicing contractual energy management, it is able to maximize energy use efficiency, create value for customers and engage them CSG actively supports low carbon economic development and works with industry on low carbon industry research and in low-carbon growth. development, and has made due contribution to a resource-saving and environment –friendly society. CSG explores new development model on EV industry, and promotes a national standard on EV technical standard and operation standard. Put energy saving policy at customers-side in place Energy management contract CSG has established smart battery-change service network for EV and a comprehensive service scheme to support EV industrialization. CSG has specifically announced its support for battery-change model by making full use of existing power CSG has introduced differentiated power price policy and closed down or In 2011, the Comprehensive Energy Corp of CSG relocated high power-consuming businesses as was required by the government. established energy efficiency management system for distribution network and facilities. It carried out “Power Consumption Management Method” to help customers to Shajiao C and sixteen other power plants. It enhance their power consumption behavior. It helped the government to implemented gas power generation and coal-bed gas Disseminate energy-saving philosophy formulate and improve the policy on tiered power pricing for households and utilization project in Dashan coal mine of Qujing, The general public understands and support is key to a low carbon society. CSG makes full use of media, network, and time-of-use pricing, coupled with energy-saving elastic pricing mechanism. Yunnan Province, which has annual power generation energy-saving products display center, business halls to disseminate energy saving knowledge to enterprises’ It has improved hydro-power pricing mechanism, self-supplied power plant capacity of 9 million KWH, equivalent to 2745 tons of representatives, citizens and students. In 2011, CSG established 86 energy saving demonstration centers and received charging policy and renewable energy pricing policy. standard coal saving. Power Supply 46,430 high school and primary school students. Guide customers to save energy and reduce emission It carried out energy efficiency diagnosis for 3,000 corporate customers whose total Customers’ Energy-saving (Unit: 100million Wh) power consumption was over 2.5 billion KWh. It implemented contractual energy 40 Economic management project for 26 customers, saving 22.68 million KWh power or 49.2% of power consumption asving. 30 Performance It has conducted research into the business model and relevant policy for LED lighting 22.4 20 19.75 projects in coordination with the Science and Technology Department of Guangdong 10.2 10 8.8 Provincial Government to spread and apply LED and other green lighting technologies. Green and 5 It has signed cooperation agreement with Guangdong Yuedian Group to develop 0 CSG’s publicity campaign CSG ‘s publicity events CSG ‘s publicity events 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 (Year) targeting at enterprises targeting at citizens targeting at students energy efficiency management system. Guangdong Power Grid Co.,Ltd and CSG Energy Guilin Power Supply Bureau organized events Guangzhou Power Supply Co.,Ltd worked with Zhixi High Environment Protection co-organized the first Energy Saving and Emission with the theme of “ Participate in energy saving School to establish Power Science and Technology Education Over A Hundred Training Programs (Unit : session) Thousands of Energy Saving Enterprises (Unit: enterprise) Tens of Thousands of Student Visitors (Unit: people) Reduction Forum and leverage the forum as a publicity and embrace low carbon new life” in Center for Teenagers. Volunteer teachers give lectures at the 180 185 platform on energy saving. 104 enterprises in communities. center and disseminate power knowledge and low carbon life 200 9000 50000 8390 46430 172 41250 Guangdong signed Green Declaration in the forum to philosophy to students at regular intervals. The center is 157 7135 141 6647 6832 6587 40000 36680 150 7000 express their commitment to low carbon development. dedicated to educating the next generation as “ Pioneers in 32470 power saving and angels in environment protection”. 100 5000 30000 Harmonious 20760 50 3000 20000 Background knowledge 0 0 Support EV industry development Society 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 (Year) 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 (Year) 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 (Year) Wanna to be environment The Experience Center on Automatic Battery-Changing for EV in -friendly buddy? Zhujiang New Town, Guangzhou is the first one equipped with Act now! E-bills are text messages delivered to Case study : MideaSaved 50% of electricity automatic battery change system in CSG’s service areas . The center is fully automated in battery change . Batteries can be clients, informing them about power In 2011, CSG Energy practiced energy conservation for Midea Ricecooker Company (MRC)on its injection consumption and payment due time. safely unloaded and be replaced with fully charged batteries. The E-bills are convenient and fast. Based molding machines. The service was delivered through EMC model and no upfront investment was needed from whole process takes no more than one minute. on CSG’s forecast, every 800 clients’ MRC and helped the company to achieve 3.1 MWh electricity saving, or RMB2.48 million electricity bills, The center is one of the important facilities in Guangzhou’s new choice of E-bills will achieve 1 cubic representing 55% of electricity saving. CSG worked closely with MRC’s parent company-Midea and promoted energy vehicle demonstration and promotion . The center is meter of wood consumption per annum. energy saving cookers in Guangdong and Yunnan province, and implemented 8 projects. In total, RMB 4.8 conducive to EV knowledge dissemination and EV industry Clients can apply for E-bills by logging million energy costs was saved per annum , 1,635 tons of standard coal were saved per annum , and 4,349 tons development in the five provinces and regions. in on-line business service or dialing of carbon dioxide emission was reduced per annum. CSG Customer hotline 95598. 53 A Myriad of Twinkling Lights, Great Rapport of CSG Green and Environment Protection 54 Green development 2020 Implementation of Green Office Green development reinforces the scientific development approach advanced by the Chinese leadership, which translate CSG CSG steps up efforts to promote green awareness, improves the green office management, and advocates the internalization of green commitment in CSR. Green development is the expection of and requirements on central enterprise. awareness as well as urging staff members to take the initiative to save water, electricity and office supplies. In May 20th, 2011, CSG issued a “Report on Green Development in GSG”, which put forward the goal of “reducing carbon dioxide emission GDP per capita by 40% to 45% lower than the level of 2005”, partnering with companies and organizations to make joint efforts Revise Office Energy Conservation Guidelines; control Encourage staff to use OA system to transfer to promote green development and build green civilization. 实施绿色办公 use, management and supervision of energy documents; use both sides of paper for printing It is estimated that in 2020 the below goals can be realized in upstream and lowstream industries (based on the year of 2005). Power Source side Power Grid side Clients side Promote the use of water-saving devices; recycle rainwater, Purchase office appliances based on demand; regulate the regenerated water for lawn and plants selection, procurement and requisition of office products Reduce standard coal Comprehensive utilization Electricity line loss Add 1 million EPP increases consumption of power of clean energy (TWh) rate declines by 1.28% electric vehicles 49 TWh electricity. generation units (g/KWh) Maintain air-conditioned room temperature at no lower Enhance the management of electrical appliances; Increase 545.3 TWh electricity Reduce 34 g/KWh Electricity line loss rate than 26℃in summers, and no higher than 20℃in encourage the use of energy-saving lights. declines by 1.28% 6890 339 winters 305 100 490 7.38 6.10 1437 Tightly control the purchase of high-emission cars; CSG headquarter held 58 video conferences, which 0 0 evaluate fuel consumption of vehicles take up 38% of the total amount of conferences held 2005 2020 2005 2020 2005 2020 2005 2020 2005 2020 Power Supply in a year. Reduce standard coal consumption Reduce standard coal consumpReduce standard coal consumption by Reduce standard coal consumpReduce standard coal consumption by by 166.32 million tons tion by 23.49 million tons 5.39 million tons tion by 760,000 tons 166.02 million tons Reduce carbon dioxide emission by Reduce carbon dioxide emission Reduce carbon dioxide emission by Reduce carbon dioxide emission Reduce carbon dioxide emission by 435 million tons by 61.55 million tons 14.12 million tons by 1.08 million tons 39.16 million tons Reduce sulfur dioxide emission by Reduce sulfur dioxide emission by Reduce sulfur dioxide emission by Reduce sulfur dioxide emission by 3.19 million tons 0.45 million tons 100,000 tons 290,000 tons Energy Efficiency Performance Economic Golden Bee 2020 Low-carbon Development Initiative Performance “Future Enterprise: China GoldenBee 2020 CSR Initiative” was jointly launched Energy efficiency performance of upstream and downstream industries of power grid in 2011 by Golden Bee CSR Council and CSG, member of the “Low Carbon and Energy Item Power (100 million KWH) Standard Coal (10,000 tons) CO2 (10,000 tons) SO2 (10,000 tons) Efficiency” Committee, in the sixth China Corporate Social Responsibilities Green and (CSR) International Symposium in June, 2011 in an effort to encourage more Increased power generation from non-fossil energy 183 558 1485 10.7 Chinese enterprises to participate in responsible actions to expand the Replacing small thermal power influence of the initiative and fulfill sustainable development in the corporate generators with large ones 49 131 1.0 Environment Protection and social level. Power generation dispatching 227 604 4.4 1 To develop optimal allocation of resources, including implementing national policy Cross-border Reduced line-loss 66 200 531 3.8 Cooperation on energy and emission reduction and advancing the project of transmitting provide innovation contribute voluntarily Energy saving at customers side electricity from western to eastern region. action plan to to the project based 19.75 64 169 1.2 realize its goal on its own advantage 2 To improve the quality of green services, which means continuously carrying out Total 1098 2920 21.1 Harmonious “Hundred, Thousand, Ten Thousand” project, deepening energy-saving services, and Common Four keywords Common Vision of Golden Bee Note:Year 2010 was used as the baseline year. promoting intelligent and green change in the ways of using energy. Action Society 2020 Initiative 3 To realize green production in enterprises, including reducing power transmission losses, improving equipment utilization, offering various types of power access encourage more make continuous Energy efficiency performance of upstream and downstream industries of power grid since 2006 (the starting year of the 11th Five-year Plan) enterprises to efforts to services and supporting peaking services. participate in the project improve the project 4 To jointly build a low-carbon industry, which means carrying out research on Shared Value Item Power (100 million KWH) Standard Coal (10,000 tons) CO2 (10,000 tons) SO2 (10,000 tons) critical technology and industrialization in related fields, and making greater efforts Increased power generation from non-fossil energy 3153 9958 26185 191 to support the development of low-carbon industries? Replacing small thermal power generators with large ones 1124 2931 22 Background knowledge Power generation dispatching 927 2404 18 Reduced line-loss 267 840 2191 16 Golden Bee 2020 Initiative Energy saving at customers side 66 224 569 4 Golden Bee 2020 Initiative, initiated by “WTO Tribune” as well as well-known enterprises at home and abroad, such as CSG, BASF, Intel, NEC, is a national fellowship organization. It aims to strengthen the action of Chinese enterprises in the field of social responsibilities (such as low carbon, supply Total 13073 34280 251 chain) through building responsible competitiveness and improving the action by providing a platform for innovation and exchange. Note: the performances in the year 2006-2010 was based on the comparison with 2005 and the performance after 2010 on the comparison with 2010. 55 A Myriad of Twinkling Lights, Great Rapport of CSG Green and Environment Protection 56 21.3 billion RMB was 96.5% of employees 63,889 person-times Harmonious Society invested to develop power grid in the rural area. received training. participated in voluntary activities. CSG is dedicated to universal power service and coordinated development of both urban and rural areas. 213 billion RMB 96.5 % 63,889 billion RMB CSG is human-oriented and facilitates mutual development of the company itself and its employees. CSG is committed to establish itself the best employer and achieve advance with its stakeholders. CSG staff is dedicated to its mission of bringing brightness and happiness for the society. Service Agriculture, Rural Population and Rural Areas >> Social welfare >> Cooperation and win-win >> Employees’ development Serve Agriculture, Rural Areas, and Rural Population Shoulder universal service and facilitate ethnic harmony The five provinces and regions in CSG’s service area are unevenly balanced. Poverty stricken areas, mountainous areas have In CSG’s service area, there are 34 ethnic minorities, including Zhuang ethnic minority, Yao ethnic minority, Miao ethnic minority, Yi ethnic minority , Li ethnic created challenges in power projects construction, technology difficulty, unit investment cost and low return rate. CSG minority, to name just a few,etc, with the population of 48.5047 million, accounting for 20.23% of the total population in the five provinces and regions. adheres to the nation’s policy on Benefitting Rural Population, and treat rural power grid development as the key component Ever since CSG’s foundation, the company has been committed to universal power service and has concerned about power transmission and power use of in corporate social responsibilities. CSG facilitates rural power grid development and makes due contribution to rural areas ethnic minorities in the five provinces and regions. Despite of the challenges posed by remote locations, sparsely populated villages, inconvenient transport development. conditions, CSG staff is making every effort to transmit electricity to ethnic minorities. In the 12th Five-Year-Plan period, CSG will invest RMB111.6 billion on retrofitting and upgrading of rural power grid, and will realize “ electricity to every household”in its service area. By the end of the 12th Five-Year-Plan period, all ethnic minorities in CSG’s service area will have access to power service and Increase Investment in Rural Network Improve Rural Power Service CSG is making active contribution to facilitate ethnic harmony. In 2011, CSG invested RMB21.3 billion on upgrading and We encourage county-level power supply enterprises to bring retrofitting rural power grids. 105 110kV substations, 2,727 their management in line with corporate standard, and we try km power transmission lines, 216 35kV substations, 3,371 kM our best to deliver quality service to our rural customers and power transmission lines, 22,768 km power transmission lines urban customers. Distribution of ethnic minorities in the five provinces and regions at the voltage of 10kV, 21,621 transformer station areas for CSG advanced rural electricity reform, conducted pilot reform rural power distribution, and 59,435 low voltage lines and on standardized labour relations and remuneration Power Supply 941,944 household meters were built and upgraded. management of rural electricians. CSG established standardized rural power team, and merged 72 county-level power plants Electricity to Every Rural Household and rural power institutions, RMB15.92 billion rural power CSG invested an ad hoc fund on power supply to rural areas. 22 assets and 28,000 rural power staff. Economic administrative villages with a population of 30,000 households CSG practices subsidiary-based management to county-level have access to power supply. Except for Yunnan province, power plants and brings their management practice in line with Performance benchmark enterprises. CSG conducted assessments to Guangdong Guizhou every household under the coverage of power grids has power Province province supply in the other four provinces (Guangdong, Guangxin, county-level power plants and 60 power plants were rated as Zhuang ethnic minority, Yao ethnic Miao ethnic minority, Buyi ethnic minority, Dong ethnic minority, Tujia ethnic outstanding. minority, She ethnic minority, Hui ethnic Guizhou and Hainan). Power supply rate at township, village minority, Yi ethnic minority, Gelao ethnic minority, Man ethnic minority Green and Harmonious and household is 100%、99.98%、99.76% respectively. All county-level power supply enterprises have kept their minority, Shui ethnic minority,Hui ethnic promise, 80% of them ranked top in local industry review. Guangxi Zhuang Ethnic Minority minority, Bai ethnic minority, Yao ethnic Rural power staff was upgrading low voltage Autonomous Region minority, Zhuang ethnic minority, She power transmission lines for villagers. 95598 customer hotline services are available in all rural areas. Zhuang ethnic minority, Yao ethnic minority, Miao ethnic minority, ethnic minority, Maonan ethnic minority, Dong ethnic minority, Mulao ethnic minority, Maonan ethnic Environment Protection Mongolian ethnic minority, Mulao ethnic Society minority, Hui ethnic minority, Jing ethnic minority, Yi ethnic minority, minority, Man ethnic minority, Qiang Shui ethnic minority, Gelao ethnic minority ethnic minority Yunan Province Hainan Province Yi ethnic minority, Bai ethnic minority, Hani ethnic minority, Zhuang ethnic minority, Miao ethnic Li ethnic minority, Miao ethnic minority, Lisu ethnic minority, Hui ethnic minority,Lahu ethnic minority, Naxi ethnic minority, Yao minority, Zhuang ethnic minority, ethnic minority, Zang ethnic minority, Jingpo ethnic minority, Bulang ethnic minority, Pumi ethnic Hui ethnic minority minority, Nu ethnic minority, Jinuo ethnic minority, Mongolian ethnic minority, Dulong ethnic minority, Man ethnic minority, Shui ethnic minority, Buyi ethnic minority Total population of ethnic minorities in the five provinces and regions: 48.5047 million Population of ethnic minorities B ac k g r ou n g k n ow le d g e 2.0634 million 17.1105million 15.337 million 12.547 million 1.4458 million 1.98% 37.18% 33.37% 36.11% 16.67% At present, there are 77,000 population have no access to power in CSG’s service area. Most of them are ethnic minorities residing in remote areas of Yunnan. CSG are committed to deliver universal power service. Permanent population Permanent population Permanent population Permanent population Permanent population of Guangdong Province : of Guangxi Zhuang of Yunnan Province: of Guizhou Province: of Hainan Province: 104.3031 million Autonomous Region : 45.966 million 34.7465 million 86.715 million Chuxiong Power Supply Bureau transmitted power to Miao Ethnic Minority families 46.0266 million 59 A Myriad of Twinkling Lights, Great Rapport of CSG Harmonious Society 60 Supply power to the place afar and light the Drung River Social Welfare With a population of 6,355, Drung is one of the smallest ethnic groups in China and was the last one that had no access to The company gives full support to the development of public causes, such as education, poverty-alleviation in Xinjiang electricity. and volunteering. We started preparation work on CSG Corporate Charity Fund. No community complaints filed in 2010. Drung River Town, the only habitation for Drung people, is located in the Drung River Valley in the north of Lisu Autonomous Prefecture of Nujiang River, Yunnan Province. Situated at the border between China and Myanmar and between Yunnan Poverty-Alleviation Province and Tibet, it is next to Myanmar in the southwest and Chawalong Town, Chayu County, Tibet Autonomous Region in the north, adjacent to India. Crisscrossed by high mountains and deep valleys, Drung River Town is isolated from the outside We make substantial efforts to revive economy in remote areas world by heavy snow from Dec to May each year. It is one of the poorest areas inhabited by ethnic minorities in China. and to increase local residents’ income; we build Hope primary schools, support construction in power-stricken areas and The total power bill of Drung River Town in 2011 was no establish ad hoc poverty-alleviation fund for poor areas. For two more than RMB 100,000 as compared to RMB 4 million consecutive years, the company has donated a total RMB 30 of maintenance and manpower fees. Our operation cost million to the “Pverty Alleviation Day, 30th, June” in Guangzhou. was over 60 times that of the power payment. If power source construction in the mid and long term is Disaster-Relief included, the total investment will be over 300 million Linchuang Power Supply Bureau were making Power Supply When natural disasters such as earthquake, typhoon, flood donations to earthquake stricken areas in Yingjiang Yuan, with the investment for each household reaching and ice disaster strike, CSG makes utmost devotion in restoring RMB 300,000. To build harmony among different ethnic Donation in 2011 （unit : RMB10,000） power supply as well as materials and capital donations to groups and different social sectors, CSG has carried out disaster-relief campaigns and after-disaster reconstruction. Donation Amount the activity of “joining hands with Drung River” and CSG invested RMB4.95 million to build 11 CSG well, 5 CSG 1、Relief Donation 3219.60 supplied power to the town. As a result, the Drung Economic ditch, 2 CSG pond in drought –stricken areas in Guizhou. 9 people have changed their aboriginal life pattern to a a.donation to disaster-affected area 9.00 Performance prefectures, autonomous regions and cities, or 43,600 people, modern one and enjoyed social growth. b.donation to designated poverty-stricken areas benefit from CSG’s charity work. 2575.13 c.donation to designated region 493.35 Support to Xinjiang Among which: donation to Xinjiang 490.00 Green and Harmonious Since 2005, CSG has sent eight division-chiefs in 4 different d.other relief donation 142.12 groups to work in Maigaiti County, region of Xinjiang Uygur Our staff explained power use knowledge to an old Drung woman. 2、Social Welfare Donation 4593.32 Autonomous Region. In aggregate, CSG has raised fund of RMB Environment Protection a.donation to education, science, Society 90 million for education, Medicare, sports facilities, livelihood culture, healthcare and sports 298.16 projects and infrastructure construction. b.donation to public facility construction 4076.48 CSG organized a campaign to raise funding for Maigaiti To bring light to the Drung people, Nujiang Power Supply Company c.other social welfare donation 218.68 County. More than RMB 3 million was raised in the campaign, of Yunnan Power Grid carried out construction in a sharp-cut cliff. 3、other donation and CSG invested RMB 2.0279 million in Bilingual Education 466.98 Award in Maigaiti County. Total amount 8279.90 CSG supported lighting projects in Maigaiti County for the benefit of local residents. RMB 4.9 million was invested in CSG “We were in bad need of power. The Avenue project. older generation has never dreamed CSG organized honey melon purchase from Xinjiang to that they could enjoy lighting and support agriculture industry in Maigaiti County. various electric appliances in Volunteers everyday life.” CSG employees actively participate in volunteering work. —— Li Deming, Head of Drung River Volunteering campaign with the theme of anti-drought, Project Town Hope, care migrant workers’ children, quality service, energy-saving and emission reduction, attracted 63,889 Drung students in a primary school received modern For more information, people/times participation. Volunteers event : Happy CSG and beautiful future education in the computer room donated by CSG. please visit CSG official website and search articles on “light Drung River” 61 A Myriad of Twinkling Lights, Great Rapport of CSG Harmonious Society 62 Win-Win Cooperation CSG insists on the mutually-beneficial and all-win cooperation strategy, committed to social economic and environment Strengthen Contractors’ International Cooperation development optimization and is striving to achieve long term prosperity and development with stakeholders. No complaint Ability to Fulfill Obligations has been filed by CSG’s cooperative partners. CSG attaches great importance to projects quality, CSG takes the initiative to establish an international ensuring construction safety. It takes various measures to communication platform and expands external exchange Enhance Cooperation with Guarantee Supplier’s Interests increase contractors’ awareness of responsibilities and channels. We have established extensive cooperation with Power Generation Companies participation in the fulfillment of their responsibilities. world renowned power companies and international CSG sticks to coordinated operation of power grid, and takes Suppliers are regarded as important strategic partners for CSG’s CSG has established contractor creditability rating organizations. concrete measures to improve the coordination between development. CSG seeks to build trust, foster complementary system, regulates the management of contractors, and CSG signed Strategic Cooperation Framework Agreements power grid and power plants. Both the power grid and power relationships and creates a sustainable value chain for their mutual forbids rule-violating enterprises to be involved in CBS’s and MOU with Better Place , Israel and Korean Electric plants work closely to guarantee the stable and safe operation development. programs for certain period of time Power Corporation. and support economic development. CSG has improved its bidding management system, and has CSG has introduced “Five Forbidden” rules of CSG reached an agreement with Asian Development Bank CSG actively implements an open, fair, and impartial practiced standardized bidding management to ensure construction safety management, and carried out (ADB) on high caliber human resources training programs. dispatching. We publish dispatching information at regular procurement transparency and provided a fair competitive inspections on any violations, and strictly forbids illegal Every year, 2-3 outstanding staff will be seconded to ADB intervals, and survey indicates that 95.8% of clients are happy environment for suppliers. Open bids are 100% available for contracting, subcontracting and lack of administration for work for 2 years. Power Supply with the dispatching service. construction, design and supervision projects. after contracting CSG worked with world leading power companies, We actively promote compensation to supplementary services CSG adheres to principles and guidelines of responsible CSG held training workshops for on-site construction including : CLP, EDF and Singapore Power on exchanges of regional power plants and interconnection operation procurement, prohibit discrimination against manufacturers, any workers for the first time to improve their skills and training programs. In total, 26 groups and 463 people assessment. We are dedicated to improvement of DSM and kind of corruption or bribery, and encourages the development were involved in exchanges and training in 2011. optimization of power grid operation index. responsible suppliers by increasing the level of procurement CSG takes the initiative to shoulder responsibilities in power CSG supports growth of excellent local suppliers; increases the ratio generators’ interconnection with the power grid. We settle of domestic procurement. CSG’s centralized procurement rate for Economic Performance payments with power plants on a timely basis to facilitate domestic facilities has reached 100%. harmonious mutual development . Participate Industrial Exchange Green and Harmonious CSG attaches importance to communication with industrial peers, supports the development of industrial associations, and takes part in different kinds of exchanging activities. Environment Protection Society We participated in CIGRE, the 19th CEPSI and Conference on Electric power Industry across Taiwan Strait and the 3rd Smart Zhao Jianguo, CSG board chairman mwt Jeff Immelt. GE board chairman and CEO. Grid Summit in Singapore. We participated 2011 Boao Asian Forum, the 15th St. Background information Petersberg International Economic Forum, the 8th Separation of Power Plants from Power Grids Power Construction Corporation of China (POWER CORP CHINA) China-ASEAN Expo and the 6th Chinese –German Forum For A foreign guest was visiting CSG is formed by merging and restructuring of Sinohydro Corporation, In March, as a major step to deepen national electric power system Economic and Technological Cooperation. pavilion in the 8th China-ASEAN Expo . HydroChina Corporation and 14 provincial (local) survey & design reform, CSG put forwards its restructuring reform in line with the State institutions, power construction companies and equipment Council’s approved plan. It carefully fulfills the requirements laid out CSG’s Role in Major Social Organizations manufactures under State Grid and China Southern Power Grid. As by State Asset Administration Committee, steadily implements the task of the end of 2010, POWER CORP CHINA’s total assets reached Social Organization Function and smoothly completes the separation of power plants from power RMB 196 billion, total employer number 202,700, business revenue grids, maintaining the stability of the whole industry. China Electricity Council Vice Chairman RMB 160 billion. 46,687 employees are among CSG list (29,327 employees in payroll, China Energy Engineering Group Co.Ltd., is founded by merging Power Branch, China Institute of Internal Auditors Vice Director 17,360 retirees), while 5,319 employees in payroll and 11 retirees were and restructuring of China Gezhouba Group Corporation, China Power Branch, China Inspection and Supervision Society Vice Chairman among subsidiary enterprises list. Total assets of subsidiary enterprises Power Engineering Consulting (Group) Corporation, secondary units under CSG , and secondary units under 15 provinces( regions/cities) reached about 20 billion RMB. CEPSI Member under the State Power Grid. In 2010, China Energy Engineering On September, 29, 2011, Power Construction Corporation of China Japan-Sino Science and Technology Association Member Group Co.Ltd’s business revenue was RMB 110 billion, total assets and China Energy Engineering Group were established, which marked was RMB120 billion, and employed 160,000 people. National Council for China Labor and Social Security Member the successful separation of power plants from grids in power industry. 63 A Myriad of Twinkling Lights, Great Rapport of CSG Harmonious Society 64 Employee Development CSG sticks to human-oriented culture and harmonious labor relations. The company is dedicated to creating a sound working Employee Interests condition to boost their motivation and creativity and achieve mutual growth with staff members. CSG acts in strict accordance with the Labour Contract Law of the People’s Republic of China. We comply with the laws By the end of 2011, we had 314,000 employees; female and regulations; pay pension, medical and unemployment insurances for our staff. We have sign contracts with staff employees accounted for 24.89%, and minority nationality 13.24% in compliance with the national law. In 2011, no significant labour dispute occurred. employees accounted for 24.09%. We are proud to have a 34.07% under 29 years old : 20.71% more balanced staff age structure and education 20.71% 30-39 years old : 34.07% background. 40-49 years old : 31.98% 31.98% 50 years old and above 13.24% CSG has phased in a comprehensive employment mechanism based on position management, with legal person as subject of liabilities and labor contract as the Employee development in 2011 core, specifies the rights and obligations of the parties of the labor contracts, and has Employee Age Structure realized the goal of equal pay for equal work of the same position. Index Performances Trade union members 100% 1.76% Power Supply CSG has standardized payment allocation, and CSG has improved vacation, pension, Turn-out rate 7.8‰ Position established payment allocation mechanism and supplementary medical insurance Management Average paid leave 9 days 13.99% based on performance, and gives preference to mechanisms strictly in correspondence 38.99% Vacation, Master Degree and above 1.76% Supporting staff in financial need RMB18.6807 million key base and front-line positions. Pension, with national laws and regulations 18.80% Bachelor Degree 18.80% Payment Supplementary Employee medical Economic Staff happiness (CSG) 73.9% Associate Degree 26.46% Interests insurance Vocational-technical Education 13.99% Performance Body check rate 100% 26.46% High School and under 38.99% CSG respects human rights, treats people of CSG has established pension Employee mentoring 20,000+ people different genders, ethnicities equally, care Respect of Pension for Employee Education Structure mechanism for retirees; ensure basic about the well-being of female officials and Human Rights Future Retirees living standards for low-income retirees officials from ethnic minority groups, prohibits Green and Harmonious child labor, hires disabled people in line with government polices. CSG’s “Six Major Programs” for Talents Development Environment Protection Society managerial and administrative talents Employee Occupational Democratic Management cultivation program Safety and Health (OSH) CSG gives full play to the role of employee representative CSG attaches great priority to OSH, and is dedicated to conference and trade union, and involves employees in science and technical experts technology leading talents cultivation and prevention of accidents and occupational hazards. No democratic management. We take solid measures to guarantee In light of National Mediumand Long-term cultivation program selection program occupational disease happened in 2011. employees’ right to know, freedom of expression, participation Talent Development Plan (2010-2020) and CSG has perfected OSH mechanism and conducted OSH right and supervision right. Development Strategy, CSG started the “Six Major Programs” training. We put employee representatives system in place and facilitate implementation of “Six Major Programs” as for Talents Development We offer health check for employees at a regular basis proposals made by employee representatives. All proposes mainstay to cultivate talents. CSG implements Staff Mentoring Programme and are handled. Introduction of high-skilled talents reinforces staff mentorship. In 2011, CSG completed CSG has established employee representative inspection and high-level talents from cultivation program overseas program 5000+ mentoring cases . examination system and has conducted inspection, supervision and examination. headquarter talents CSG facilitate open business and disclosed 3230 issues. development program 65 A Myriad of Twinkling Lights, Great Rapport of CSG Harmonious Society 66 员工关爱 Employee training Training base Course Managerial staff development Teaching staff Online training development development CSG attaches great importance to the development and management of managerial staff. We have enhanced the training for young CSG has constantly improved the employee training system managers, expanded our vision in selecting staff, equipped the company with strong management team and improved the We have set up training We have formulated We have 202 full-time and We have improved training employees’ satisfaction for talents selection and appointment. with focuses on job evaluation center, appointed standards for job competence 8,674 part-time training management by adopting competence, optimizing and three skills training bases at training and developed staff. information technology and Selection of managerial staff Strategic training of young managers the company level and teaching materials. We now have provided online integrating learning and We have introduced greater competition to managerial staff selection. Five deputy optimized and integrated 71 have 12,264 training courses training to employees to Focusing on strategic training of young managers, we have offered training job posts in the executive body and one director-level job were recruited training resources. We have existing training bases. and 7,799 teaching outlines raise their willingness to sessions to 100 outstanding young managers, some of whom have been nationwide. Eight deputy job posts in the executive body of Guangzhou Power temporarily transferred to grassroots or hard job posts. implemented multi-level and in electronic form. study. Supply Bureau and Shenzhen Power Supply Bureau were recruited within CSG various types of professional Staff exchange Manager training training with specific We have carried out a lot of staff exchanges. 36 people were exchanged between To push forward the manager training, we have set up the Party School in our objectives and practical effect the east and west of the country. 8 staff of CSG was relocated to city and county company to improve the competence of managers. 90,143 person-times so as to enhance the overall level companies. We have also exchanged 17 managers with central and local managerial staff has been trained and the training duration has reached 932, 464 We have enhanced employees’ capabilities by focusing on their job competence. We have quality and job competence of government departments. hours. More than 6,900 managers at the director level or above have been trained. Power Supply offered 22,000 training sessions and 1.37 million person-time employees were trained. 98% of our employees. the staff successfully completed the trainings. Staff care Gala show of Hainan Power Grid Company The company places importance on people care. It shows its love Career Development and care through material and non-material rewards. We have enhanced human resources planning and been included in our professional titles assessment scheme. We We have explored the long-term mechanism of poverty Economic Performance improved ways of talents recruitment. Job positions have finished professional qualification assessment in five alleviation. were better managed to provide equal opportunities for disciplines that cover 12 sub-disciplines and 3,504 people and We fully support the staff to give livelihood assistance and medical the employees. organized technical assessment for 47,000 people. assistance to each other as well as giving financial aids to students. We have improved our welfare system and offered a “menu” for Green and In the principle of democracy, openness, competition CSG has introduced technical specialists selection, in total, 18 Harmonious and choosing the excellent, we have hired 9,041 technical specialists and 87 assistant technical specialists have the staff to choose their welfare so as to enhance their sense of professionals and fresh university graduates with been selected and hired. belonging. diverse backgrounds. We have been actively introducing high-caliber talents from We have implemented the Happy CSG scheme and developed the Environment Protection Society We have standardized the classification of job positions abroad. In 2011, the company was selected as an innovation and happiness index to enhance the sense of happiness of our staff. and divided the jobs into 4 categories, 32 sub-categories enterprising base for overseas high-level talents by the We have carried out cultural activities for the employees, such as and 3,966 positions. Organization Department of the Central Committee of the CPC. singing and dancing party, speech contest, sports competition, We have expanded the range of disciplines eligible for talent shows, photography competitions and reading plans. professional titles assessment. The discipline of law has We show our love and care for female employees by offering pregnancy test, maternal leave and subsidies. Long-distance running competition of Panyu Power Grid Company in Guangzhou The awards won by employees in 2011 Fund Provided to Staff in Unfavorable Situation in 2011 Award Number Awarding Body Unit Content Person/time Amount (unit: 10,000RMB) China Labor Medal, China Labor Certificate CSG Headquarter Grants 16956 704.69 28 All-China Federation of Trade Unions China Labor Excellent Woman Award and Excellent Worker Award Grants to households receiving subsistence allowance, Guangdong Power Grid 1181 205.34 underprivileged employees, visit retired staff All-China Federation of Trade Unions Winner of the “Ankang Cup” Competition 25 State Administration of Work Safety Grants to employees in financial need, visit model workers, Yunnan Power Grid employees’ survivors, front-line employees 8900 785.00 Grants to employees in financial need, Excellent Trade Union in Energy Chemistry Sector Yunnan Power Grid 1405 98.20 20 China Union of Energy Chemistry visit model workers, employees’ survivors Excellent Trade Union Staff and Excellent Worker in 2011 Grants to employees in financial need , Guizhou Power Grid 562 37.96 Excellent Worker Award visit model workers, front-line employees Excellent Staff Member Award 120 CSG Hainan Power Grid Grants to employees in financial need, visit model workers 461 36.88 Excellent Technical Specialist 67 A Myriad of Twinkling Lights, Great Rapport of CSG Harmonious Society 68 Responsibility innovation Responsibility Management Carried out CSR Day CSG has incorporated social responsibility into its strategic management and daily operation and production. CSG facilitates social On 20th, May, 2011. CSG held the CSR Day campaign, the first to do so A Green and Responsible CSG in central enterprises (Theme of the Event) responsibility in accordance with regulations, and practices social responsibility in a step by step and systematic manner .We communicate with and involve stakeholders in corporate responsibility programs, and has established strategy-driving social CSG released Year 2010 CSR Report and CSG Green Development Report responsibility model with CSG characteristics. Responsibility Governance Steering committee of the Social Responsibility Work CSG has enhanced social responsibility organization structure development. We have improved social responsibility management system and incorporated social responsibility in Taskforce (General Office) Taskforce (General Office) Taskforce (General Office) Five branch companies/ subsidiaries of the Social Responsibility of the Social Responsibility of the Social Responsibility Work of operaion management. The company has established social Work of the Branch Companies Work of the Subsidiaries the institutions directly under CSG released their own edition of CSR Reports responsibility organization structure covering headquarter, Zhao Jianguo, CSG board chairman visited the CSR Day branch companies, and power plants and has specified social Based on our incomplete statistics, more than 20,000 CSR reports, responsibility work at all levels. CSG designated departments in Full time staff on social responsibility in power supply bureaus at grass root level. 50,000 leaflets on energy saving and power supply business were power supply bureaus at grass root level, with full time or part time staff overseeing social responsibility issue. distributed on site by power supply bureaus. More than 40,000 people participated in the event. CSR Day brought CSG and power plants Responsibility advancement closer to stakeholders, and bettered general public’s understanding 15 power supply bureau in Guangzhou, Shenzhen, and recognition of CSG. Dongguan, Foshan, Zhuhai, Nanjing, Guilin, Liuzhou, CSG published a book entitled CSG Corporate Social CSG Corporate Social Responsibility ABC CSG’s CSR Day was chosen as Top Ten Events in Chinese Enterprises’ Kunming, Qujing, Honghe, Guiyang, Zunyi, Haikou and CSR by WTO Economic Tribune Responsibility ABC with the theme of “A responsible CSG is Sanya city conducted CSR event. expressed by practice”. The book explains the significances of practicing corporate social responsibility (CSR), CSG’s CSR main areas, the relationship between CSR and employees work in details. The book was published 30,000 copies and distributed to every work team to better their understanding Responsibility Honor of CSR and effectively facilitated CSR in daily production and In 2011, CSG’s practice of corporate social responsibility won CSG has played an important role in helping China operation. recognition from its stakeholders and a number of prestigious awards. earn a right to be heard in world CSR practice . CSG In April, 2010, CSG Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2010 was 2010 CSR Report is a report infused with national CSG published a book on Year 2010 Outstanding CSR awarded 5 Stars by CSR Research Center , Economics Division, Chinese Practice Case Studies, highlighting and promoting best Academy of Social Sciences, the first corporate social responsibility self-confidence. practice in practicing CSR at all levels. report receiving the highest ranking in China. —— Research Center , Economics Division, In Nov, 2011, Chinese Academy of Social Sciences published Blue Chinese Academy of Social Sciences paperCorporate Social Responsibility 2011, CSG ranked No.4th in corporate social responsibility development index in Top 100 Chinese In May, 2011, CSR participated in the press conference on “2010 China Industrial Economics Industry CSR Report” organized by enterprises, moving two places up . China Federation of Industrial Economics. CSR was chosen as the representative of Central Enterprise to share its philosophy and In Nov,2011, CSG was invited to make a talk in 2011 CSR Working practice of CSR. Conference organized by SASAC, the State Council. The three CSR case In Nov, 2011, CSG established the third “CSR Demonstration Base” in Electric Power Research Institute, Yunnan Power Grid. The studies reported by CSG were all awarded “ 2011 Best Practice of base is CSG’s showcase in CSR and demonstration platform of its independent science and technology innovation. Central Enterprise in CSR”. Strategy planning Department of CSG was invited to deliver lectures on CSG’s CSR to MBA students at Chinese Academy of Social In Dec, 2011, CSG participated in the 4th China CSR Summit organized bu Xinhua Net, and for the first time. CSG was awarded “ Outstanding Sciences and at universities in Guangzhou. Chinese Enterprise in CSR Practice”. The award was chosen by Xinhua CSG was invited to participate in SASAC’s research on Management Guidance on Central Enterprise’s CSR. Net voting results. CSG completed research on CSG’s Model in Advancing CSR, and summarized and highlighted a CSG model, specified objectives, thought, steps, landmark events and main measures. 69 A Myriad of Twinkling Lights, Great Rapport of CSG Responsibility Management 70 A new way of communicating with stakeholders: searching for electricity in Shenzhen Universiade In Dec, 2012, CSG was awarded Leading Enterprises Golden Bee Award: Leadership Enterprise and its 2010 CSR Reports were awarded Golden Bee Award for Corporate Social Responsibility Before the Shenzhen Universiade, CSG hosted the “searching for electricity” activity under the theme of “Green Power, Light the Universiade’. More Report-Evergreen Prize for three consecutive years. CSG’s CSR Report was highly recommended by than 30 representatives, including students, local residents, media professionals and Olympic gold medalists spent nine days travelling the route of the organizer WTO Economic Tribune as a modelreport. “west-to-east power transmission”. They trudged for over 4000 kilometers and crossed four provinces, including Yunnan, Guangxi, Guizhou and Guangdong to find out how electricity was produced from water and came all the way from Yunnan and Guizhou Plateau, Guangxi and Guangdong to reach Shenzhen and light the Universiade. Use Each Kilowatt of Power with a Loving Heart CSG has established a stable and sustained information collection channel and has set up highly efficient and smooth information disclosure Dear young friends, 28th, July, 2011 mechanism. Its CSR report is very professional and we highly recommend Electricity is essential for our study, work and life. However, we all take it for granted that its report as a model report. electricity is a renewable energy that comes easily. Very few of us adhere to the principle of —— WTO Economic Tribune “saving energy”. From July 15 to 23, we, five university student representatives from Guangdong, Hong Kong and Macau Communication and Participation of the Stakeholders and two Shenzhen citizens joined the charity activity of “searching for electricity” organized by CSG, CSG Constantly improves transparency and constantly adopts innovative approaches to communicate with stakeholders and sincerely respond to which was part of the “light the Universiade and show love of CSG” scheme. We travelled across stakeholders’ expectations and concerns, and is trying its utmost to win stakholders’ understanding, recognition and support . The participants watched and four provinces, Yunnan, Guizhou, Guangxi and Guangdong within 9 days to find out how electricity was interviewed the ordinary front-line produced. Analysis On CSG’s communication with its stakeholders workers and learned the whole process “Searching for electricity” shocked us and changed our values fundamentally. As university students Stakeholders Expectation and requirements Communication and response Examples of electricity production and supply to Universiade. They knew the efforts we had never thought how difficult it was for electricity to be produced. Behind every kilowatt of In strict complaince with laws and Compliance, taxation obligation, implement the state Zhao Jianguo , CSG board chairman met Qin Guangrong, regulations, observe taxation obligation behind each kilowatt of power and felt the power lies the contribution made by thousands of production workers, line patrol workers and power energy policy, work closely with government to facilitate Secretary of Yunnan CPC and held a meeting on power supply safe power supply Government State-owned asset value maintenance and power grid construction, improve daily management, at late 2011 and early 2012, Yunnan Power supply to other love of ordinary CSG workers. appreciation take accountability , report work progress , improve provinces/regions during the 12th and 13rd Five-Year-Plan protection workers, who have scarified their youths or even lives for the job. We went along the corporate governance period, and facilitating Yunnan’s role as a bridgehead. Sustained and stable ROI inspection line in Yexiang Valley in Xishuangbanna, where the mountains were stiff and the dangers Salary and welfare pay salary on a timely basis, pay social insurance in Staff health and safety accordance with laws and regulation, involve staff in CSG has formulated a policy to select and foster 100 young staffs Fair promotion and career management process, provide a healthy working condition, managerial staff were everywhere. But the line inspectors have to walk this line every day with more than 40 development organize training programmes on health and safety, help Staff care staff in need kilograms of maintenance materials. At the Biluo Summit with several thousand meters altitude, the SAIDI reduction Reliable power supply, customer satisfaction Guangxi Power Grid upgraded its prefecture and city level line inspectors had nothing to eat in hunger but wild fruits and slept on stones when tired. High quality power supply, management, power grid construction and upgrading, business halls and realized 24 hour self-services at customers Quality service, energy saving support technology and management innovation, workshops business halls in all prefectures and cities. They worked under such harsh conditions with low income day by day. The belief for them to work on and interviews, explore energy saving approaches was to bring light to all families. What we saw and heard in the past 9 days also made us realize Commitment Open, fair and impartial Open purchase information；Accept feedback and Yunnan Power Grid signed MOU on Related issues on partners procurement suggestion；Negotiation and communication； Power Grids in Northern Laos, and specified cardinal Seven representatives wrote a proposal that in some remote mountainous areas some people still lived in places without any power supply. They Experience sharing Project cooperation； principles covering cooperation scope. to the young people and called for the hoped that someday electricity could change their life. Energy saving and emission Energy-saving oriented generation scheduling； Guangdong Power Grid collected “Good ideas in saving energy saving in our everyday life to reduction Open environment information；environment electricity consumed by household appliances” under the Dear friends, let us use electricity with a loving heart. It is neither infinite, nor does it come easily. environment Resources saving impact assessment；environment technology bring the light, warmth and happiness to assistance of media. A panel consisting of specialists and research；green office action；facilitate electric Tackle climate change media reporters reviewed more than 3000 ideas proposed more people in need. Please cherish the power. Turn off the lights when you are away. Switch off the buttons on the Eco-environment protection care industry development by citizens. Public utility development wiring board. Switch off the stand-by electronic devices. Raise the temperature of air conditioners. Understand community demand；Community CSG’s one level-one portal site and five level-two portal sites Poverty-relief has operated on-line. In terms of website performances, Community and public Education and publicity；Workshop and Community exchanges and communication；Website development;Charity CSG’s websites continued to be ranked in Top Ten list. These tiny little things can be done by you and me. Let us save energy and turn the efforts of communication power workers to more electricity. Let’s bring light, warmth and happiness to people in greater need. Chen Huihui, Liu Jiawei, Ouyang Huaji, Lin Shuyuan, Zhou Zhixuan, Li Erda 71 A Myriad of Twinkling Lights, Great Rapport of CSG Responsibility Management 72 Outlook for 2012 Third-party Evaluation CSG 2011 CSR Report Rating Year 2012 marks the first year in the 12th Five-Year-Plan. CSG will adhere to the main tasks set by the 12th Entrusted by CSG, the Corporate Social Responsibility Research Center of Chinese Academy of Social Sciences, Economics Department Five-Year-Plan. The company has identified future priorities: Put specific policies in place, put service at top selected experts from the China Corporate Social Responsibility Report Rating Panel to sit the “Rating Panel of 2011 Corporate Social priority and always be committed; ensure safety, ensure growth and ensure stability; reinforce talent pool Responsibility Report of China Southern Power Grid Co., Ltd.” to assess and rate CSG 2011 CSR Report. development, reinforce management and control mechanism, reinforce image building and reinforce party 1.Rating Basis building. CSG will upgrade its management in an all-round manner, make specific measures to implement CASS-CSR 2.0 jointly released by the Corporate Social Responsibility Research Center of Chinese Academy of Social Sciences, Economics Department, corporate strategies, and give full play to CSG’s supporting role in guarantee and service to make active China National Enterprise Federation, China Petrochemical Federation ,China Light Industry Federation China Corporate Citizen Committee, contribution to stable and rapid economic development and a harmonious community in the five provinces Sino-German Trade and Sustainable Development and Corporate Social Responsibility Project, WTO Tribune, and the Corporate Social Responsibility and region. Research Center of Chinese Academy of Social Sciences, Economics Department. 2.Rating Conclusion CSG will reinforce safety production management, and roll out risk management mechanism on production, Completeness（★★★★★） reinforce safety supervision and management at whole production process, put safe production accountability The report disclosed 79.5% core indicators in power supply sectors and demonstrated very good completeness.Core indicators including system in places, strengthen comprehensive preventative measures, strengthen safe production training and power supply, economic performances, green and environment, social harmony, responsibility management. education, perfect contingency plans and prevent accidents involving death and serious misoperation Substantiveness（★★★★★） The report responds to the expectations of stakeholders in a comprehensive way. Substantive topics on “ Guarantee power supply” accidents. “Guarantee power use in rural and remote areas” “Comprehensive outage management” are included. CSG will guarantee reliable power supply and enhance operation management of power grid, reinforce Balance（★★★★★） equipment management, safe operation management, facilitate science and technology management; CSG will The report disclosed a number of negative information involving topics on : outage, equipment accidents, ethical operation and occupational disease management, explained and reviewed some incidents in a detailed manner, and put forward correction measures. The report is an keep a close eye on market update, be forward looking in understanding supply and demand changes, issue outstanding one in terms of balancing positive and negative information. early warning of thermal coal, rainfall and load, CSG will take flexible approaches to achieve 99.944% power Comparability（★★★★☆） supply reliability rate in urban areas, 99.855% power supply reliability rate in rural areas, and provide reliable The report disclosed a number of indicators for the past 3 consecutive years, and demonstrated very good vertical comparability; the report power supply for the five provinces and region. disclosed indicators including SAIDI, power supply reliability, voltage pass rate, and therefore, demonstrated excellent horizontal comparability. CSG will reinforce investment management, optimize investment priority to ensure investment return. The Readability（★★★★★） company will put Power Grid Planning in the 12th Five-Year-Plan Period in place, facilitate upgrading of rural The report is well structured, fluent,concise and to the pointwith clear focus on CSG’s CSR practice. The report is very well supported by a number of expression forms; in terms of layout, the report is exquisite, it is reader friendly as it is equipped with glossaries. The report power grid, and provide electricity to the 77,000 people who currently have no power supply access, and performed very well in readability. realize “electricity to every household”; CSG will take more concrete steps and more effective measures to Innovativeness（★★★★★） create outstanding operation performances and make its due contribution to the stable and rapod economic The report highlighted CSG’s core value“A Myriad of Twinkling Lights, Great Rapport of CSG, with the focus on corporate development strategy, Mid-to-Long Term Development Strategy and systematic practice of CSR. It is a very growth in the five provinces and region. innovative report. CSG will advance its Green Action, and practice energy-saving based power generation dispatching and line loss Synthetic Rating（★★★★★） The 2011 Corporate Social Responsibility Report of China Southern Power Grid Co., Ltd. was rated five stars by the panel. It should be management in an in-depth manner; CSG will reinforce demand-side management , and continue practices on regarded as an outstanding corporate social responsibility report. energy saving diagnosis, energy management contract (EMC), the company will play a guiding role to facilitate orderly development of new energy and EV industry and serve the transformation to service industry. 3.Suggestions 1.The report should disclose Key Performance Index (KPI) tables for the past few years to enhance its vertical comparability. CSG will advance talent pool development, reinforce capacity building and integration education, facilitate 2.The report should disclose CSG’s CSR planning and future plan to make it more forward-looking. standardized recruitment and employment and strive to build a harmonious labour relations, CSG will facilitate 4.Rating Panel Happy CSG project in an active and sound way, will encourage its employees to shoulder CSR, and make every Panel leader: PENG Huagang, Vice Consul, Director of SASAC Research Institute effort to ensure power supply. Panel Member: MI Jianhua, Director of Power Reliability Management Center, SERC YIN Gefei, Vice President of WTO Tribune Looking to the future, CSG will position itself a service –oriented corporation and highlight its nature as a pivot Yang Dongning, Associate Professor, Guanghua School of Management, Beijing University industry important to national economy and people’s livelihood, and its role as a basic industry. CSG will take ZHONG Hongwu, Director of the Corporate Social Responsibility Research Center, Economics Department of Chinese Academy of Social Sciences more active measures in developing real economy, improvement of people’s livelihood, coordinated regional development , independent innovation, energy saving and emission reduction, upgrading of rural power grid, and Going Global initiatives so as to make greater contribution for the better, faster development of the five provinces and region. Chen Jiagui Peng Huagang Director Economics Department of Chinese Panel leader , Director of SASAC Academy of Social Sciences, Standing Research Institute member of National Peoples’ Congress 73 A Myriad of Twinkling Lights, Great Rapport of CSG Third-party Evaluation 74 Third-party Evaluation Third-party Evaluation Vice President, WTO Tribune; Director General, International Research Centre of CHU Xuping Deputy Director, SASAC Research Institute YIN Gefei Social Responsibility and Sustainable Development, Beijing University I read the 2011 Corporate Social Responsibility (herein after referred to as “CSR”) Report of CSG. With rich content, I’m very impressed by the 2011 CSR Report of CSG. It has made progress based on the 2010 Report which was highlights and distinctive features, it shows new progress made by CSG in corporate social responsibility. already very good. Fist, it innovates the way of report editing . Spanning across three years, 2010, 2011 and 2012, it is edited in advance instead of afterwards, which is innovative and helps to improve management. Second, the report First, it spreads decent value. deepens the concept of CSR by linking the core value of “A Myriad of Twinkling Lights, Great Rapport of CSG” with The ultimate drive for a company to carry out CSR lies in the value of all employees. The value is how a company four responsibility areas. It provides a systematic guidance to CSR practices and highlights the core value as its soul. views itself, its social nature and social significance. It is the pursuit and target that a company is committed to in its Third, the report publishes more core indicators to give a full picture of CSR. It explains what measures CSG has way forward. It also serves as the code of conduct for the organization behaviors. The core value of CSG is “A Myriad taken to better serve six prioritized user groups so as to respond to the concern of the stakeholders. It also shows how of Twinkling Lights, Great Rapport of CSG”, which is candid, vivid, thought-provocative and inclusive. It expresses the the company has fulfilled the responsibility of providing electricity to all ethnic minorities. It includes negative company’s concern for the customers and the environment, care for the employees and willingness to reward the information to be more objective and balanced. In general, this report reaches a new height in terms of quality. It society. will continue to lead the development of CSR reports in China and has established a new international standard for Based on its value, in 2011, CSG responded effectively to a number of challenges, such as natural disasters and CSR report. serious shortage of power supply. To meet customer demand and provide quality service, it reduced outage time for customers, which was on par with international standard in some cities. It built the green development platform and MI Jianhua Director, Electricity Reliability Management Center, SERC reduced the overall line loss rate to 5.35 percent, achieving energy saving equivalent to 10.98 million tons of standard coal in the upstream and downstream industries. It provided electricity to 43,800 people who were otherCSG discloses its CSR practices in five provinces and regions in South China in 2011, with the aim to provide safe, wise without electricity, contributing to ethnic and social harmony. These figures were silent but telling. Having read stable, reliable and high-quality power. Giving priority to safety, it ensured the safe and stable operation of the the report, I was deeply impressed by the value of CSG employees. power grid under complex circumstances; focusing on serving the customers, it provided quality and reliable power Second, it enables CSR to be included in business management and operations. products and services. It practiced the core value of “A Myriad of Twinkling Lights, Great Rapport of CSG” by ensurThe CSG has incorporated CSR into strategic management and advocated excellent concepts such as the “serving the ing power supply. In 2011, the company introduced measures in technology and management to improve the customers, asset life cycle management and intensive management of resources”. It has pushed forward managereliability of power supply. SAIDI of an urban user was 87.6 minutes fewer than that of the previous year and that ment innovation to make sure that the core value and CSR are embedded in the business operations. CSG has of Guangdong Power Grid customers was 2.01 hours, the best in China provincial-level power grid companies. The established CSR index system (CSG-CSR1.0) according to its corporate features. It has also identified the key areas for supply reliability index of some economically developed cities reached the international standard. These achieveCSR practice and carried out dynamic closed-loop management. The report publishes 170 indicators which are very ments are worthy of recognition. Power production safety and quality service are the fundamental starting point of substantive and complete. It is used by CSG as a tool in the whole process of management rather than a pure review CSR. It is also a systematic and persistent undertaking that needs continuous improvement. of past performance. In this way, CSG has established an effective link between CSR performance review and CSR practice, which is an important innovation of CSR. SHA Yiqiang Director of Research Office, China Electricity Council Third, it creates satisfaction for the stakeholders. I have been paying close attention to the development of CSG. The achievements of the company in corporate social responsibilA company is an economic organization and a vehicle for stakeholders to achieve common interests as well. Thereity are known to everyone. The company’s 2011 CSR report is very clear in theory and framework. I’m particularly impressed by fore, the feedbacks from the stakeholders are essential for CSR performance of a company. In 2011, CSG worked hard several points. First, according to the report, the company has linked its CSR practice to its core business. The report offers a and pursued innovative development through good service, excellent development and remarkable performance. It comprehensive picture of the core issues of CSR in the power supply industry. It introduces CSG’s promise for quality service for satisfied all stakeholders including the government, shareholders, the customers, the upstream and the downstream the first time and provides featured reports on CSG’s important practices of serving the people, aiming for excellence and securing industries and the community. It proved itself to be a respectable company which ranked first in a number of local the supply for the Shenzhen Universiade. Other practices included “balancing supply and demand” and “expanding service to and provincial government evaluations and third-party evaluations. every ethnic group to promote ethnic harmony”, which responded well to the concern and expectation of all stakeholders. Secondly, CSG has made many innovations, including the report editing model. The report spans 3 years and is drafted in I sincerely wish that CSG continue its efforts in development and innovation, and take the lead in advance. Third, the company has incorporated the core value into in its CSR framework to carry out responsibilities in four areas establishing a Central Enterprise as a world leading company. and six aspects. It has set up a very good example for other state-owned enterprises in China to carry out CSR. 75 A Myriad of Twinkling Lights, Great Rapport of CSG Third-party Evaluation 76 Report Index Report Index Report Directory GRI benchmarking CASS-CSR benchmarking Report directory GRI benchmarking CASS-CSR benchmarking Cover 2.1 Green and environment protection EC2/EN5/EN18 E3.1/E3.2 Inside Front Cover P5.2 Green and environment protection/ Energy saving and emission reduction at power grid side /Energy saving and emission reduction operation/Safe waste disposal EN22/EN18 ESE2.5 Responsibility Framework 4.8 P3.1/G1.1/G1.2 Green and environment protection/ Energy saving and emission reduction at customer side / put energy saving policy at customer-side in place EN6/EN18 Board Chairman Speech 1.1/1.2/4.8 P2.1/P2.2/EC4/G1.1/G1.2 Green and environment protection/Energy saving and emission reduction at customer side/ EMC EN6/EN18 E1.3/ESE2.8/ESE2.9 About Us/Company Leader 4.2/4.3 Green and environment protection/ Energy saving and emission reduction / at customer side Guide customers to save energy and reduce emission EN5/EN6/EN18 ESE2.10 About Us/Company Management 2.3/2.6/4.1/4.4/4.9 P4.1/P4.5/P4.6 Green and environment protection/ Energy saving and emission reduction at customer side /Support EV industry development EC8/EN18 About Us/Organization structure M1.1 Green and environment protection/ Energy saving and emission reduction at customer side /Disseminate energy saving philosophy EN6/EN18 E1.2/E1.11/E2.15 About Us/Introduction to Secondary Units 2.2/2.4/2.5/2.7/2.8 P4.2/P4.3/P4.4 Green and environment protection/Green Development 2020 EN6/EN18 Implementation of Mid-to-Long Development Strategy 2.9 Green and environment protection/Green Development 2020/ Golden bee 2020 Low Carbon Development Initiative 4.12/EN6/EN18 Feature report / Serve the people, To-Top EC8 ESM2.15/S1.5 Green and environment protection//Green Office Campaign EN6/EN18 E2.12/E2.13/E2.14/E3.4 Feature report/Guarantee power supply to the Shenzhen Universiade to deliver wonderful games 1.2/SO5 Environment Protection/Energy Saving and Emission Reduction Performance EN5/EN16/EN17 P5.2/E3.2 Power Supply ESS3.10/ESS3.11 Social Harmony 4.8/EC1 S2.22/ESS4.3/S4.13 Power Supply/Quality Service Social Harmony/Serve Agriculture, Rural Area, Rural Population Power supply/ Quality service/Power supply pledge PR1 P5.2 Social Harmony/Serve Agriculture, Rural Area, Rural Population /Expand Investment in Rural Network S05 Power supply/ Quality service/Improve marketing service management PR8 M2.1/M2.3/M2.4/M2.5/M2.8/M2.20 Social Harmony/Serve Agriculture, Rural Area, Rural Population /Expand Investment in Rural Network S05 ESM2.14 Power supply/ Quality service/Convenient service channel EC8 Social Harmony/Serve Agriculture, Rural Area, Rural Population/ Improve Rural Power Service S05 ESS2.9 Power supply/ Quality service/Customer satisfaction assessment EC8/PR5 M2.6 Social Harmony/Serve Agriculture, Rural Area, Rural Population/ Shoulder universal service and facilitate ethnic harmony S05 Power supply/ Quality service/Enhancing customer satisfaction Social Harmony/Serve Agriculture, Rural Area, Rural Population/Supply power to the place afar and light the Drung River ESM2.15 Power Supply/Safe Production Social Harmony/Social Welfare SO9 S4.1/S4.9/S4.11/S4.15 Power Supply/Safe Production/ Stable Operation of the Grid Social Harmony/Social Welfare/Poverty-Alleviation EC1 S4.4 Power Supply/Safe Production/Sound Operation of the Facility S3.5/ESS3.8/ESS3.9/ESS3.10 Social Harmony/Social Welfare/Disaster-Relief EC1 Power Supply/Safe Production/Standard Management of Safe Production 4.11 S3.1/S3.3/S3.4/ESS3.7 Social Harmony/Social Welfare/Support to Xinjiang EC1 Power Supply/Safe Production/Standard Management of Safe Production S3.6/S3.12 Social Harmony/Social Welfare/Volunteer Activity EC1 S4.12 Power supply/ Balance power supply and demand EC9 Social Harmony/Win-win Cooperation M3.11 Power Supply/Reliable Supply ESM2.16/ESM2.17/ESM2.18/ESM2.19 Social Harmony/Win-win Cooperation/Strengthened Cooperation with Power Plants Power Supply/Reliable Supply/Establish a reliable power distribution network Social Harmony/Win-win Cooperation/Guarantee Supplier’s Interests EC6 M3.3/M3.4/S4.7/S4.8 Power Supply/Reliable Supply/Comprehensive Outage Management ESM2.7/ESM2.21 Social Harmony/Win-win Cooperation/Industrial Exchange 4.13 Power Supply/Reliable Supply/On-load exercise Work EC8 ESM2.22 Social Harmony/Win-win Cooperation/Improve Contractor’s Ability to Implement Obligations G3.3/M3.1/ESM3.5 Power Supply/Reliable Supply/Rapid Restoration of Supply EC8 Social Harmony/Win-win Cooperation/ Conduct international cooperation Power Supply/Reliable Supply/ Important power supply guarantee mission S05 Social Harmony/Win-win Cooperation/Structure reform 2.9 Power Supply/Contingency Management Social Harmony/Employee Development P5.2/S2.5/S2.6/S2.7 Power Supply/ Contingency Management/Prompt response in disaster relief 4.11 S3.2 Social Harmony/Employee Development/Employee Interests EC3/EC5/LA1/LA2/LA13/LA14/HR1/HR4 S2.1/S2.2/S2.3/S2.10/S2.11/S2.12/S2.20/S2.31 Power Supply/ Contingency Management/Improve comprehensive capability in contingency management 4.11 Social Harmony/Employee Development/Employee Professional Safety and Health LA8/LA9 S2.16/S2.17/S2.18/S2.19 Power Supply/Emergency Management/reinforce contingency drills 4.11 Social Harmony/Employee Development/Democratic Management 4.4 S2.4/S2.24/S2.25/S2.29 Power Supply/Grid Construction EC8 Social Harmony/Employee Development/Employee Training LA10/LA11 S2.21 Power Supply/Grid Construction/Power grid plan and investment Social Harmony/Employee Development/Career development S1.9/S2.23/S2.30/S4.5 Power Supply/Grid Construction/standardized power grid construction mangement Social Harmony/Employee Development/Cadre management Power Supply/Protect power facilities PR2 Social Harmony/Employee Development/Care for Employees S2.26/S2.27/S2.28 Power Supply/Science and technology innovation Power Supply/Science and technology innovation/Science and technology innovation achievements M2.11/M2.13 Power Supply/Science and technology innovation/ Science and technology innovation plan Power Supply/Science and technology innovation/innovation scheme Power Supply/Science and technology innovation/Science and technology investment M2.9 Responsibility management/ Responsibility governance 4.8 G2.1/G2.2/G2.3/G3.3/G3.5/G5.2 Responsibility management/ Responsibility advancement G1.3/G3.1/G3.2/G4.3/G5.5/G6.1 Economic Performance M1.2/M1.3/S1.5/S1.6 Responsibility Management/ responsibility innovation 3.2 G5.3 Responsibility Management/Responsibility Honor 2.10 G5.5 Economic Performance/Operation Performance EC1 M1.2/M1.3/M1.4/M1.5/S1.5/S1.6 Responsibility Management/Stakeholder Communication and Participation 4.14/4.15/4.16/4.17/S05 G5.1/G5.4 Economic Performance/Law Compliance EN28 M3.6/M3.7/M3.9/M3.10/S1.4 Outlook 2012 4.8 (A1) Economic Performance/Law Compliance/Legal Risk Management SO8 M3.8/S1.1/S1.2/S1.7 Third-party Evaluation (A2) Economic Performance/Law Compliance/Strengthened Internal Control SO4 S1.2 Report Index 3.12/3.13 (A3) Economic Performance/Law Compliance/Supervision over Major Decision-making 4.6/SO4 S1.2 Performance of the United Nations Global Compact P5.1 Economic Performance/Law Compliance/Clean Business SO3/SO4 S1.2/S1.3 About the Report 3.3/3.5/3.11 P1.3 Economic Performance/Law Compliance/Performance Supervision SO4 S1.2 About the Report/Time Frame 3.1 P1.1 Economic Performance/Decreased Cost and Enhanced Performance About the Report/Range of report 3.6/3.7 P1.2 Economic Performance/Promote Development of Electricity Market ESE2.11 About the Report/Compilation Basis 4.12 P1.5 Economic Performance/Serve the Economic Development in Five Provinces SO5 S1.8/S4.2 About the Report/Reference P1.5 Economic Performance/Strengthened Cooperation with Hong Kong and Macau M3.2 About the Report/Data Source 3.9 P1.4 Economic Performance/Promote GMS Cooperation About the Report/Reliability Guarantee P1.6 About the Report/Title Description About the Report/For More Readings P1.8 Green and environment protection EC2/EN5/EN18 E3.1/E3.2 About the Report/Ask For a Copy of This Report 3.4 P1.7/P1.8 Feedback Form 3.4 (A4) Green and environment protection/ Energy saving and emission reduction at power source side EN18 ESE2.2 KPI P5.1/P5.2 Green and environment protection/ Energy saving and emission reduction at power source side /Facilitate optimization of power source installed capacity structure EN18 Innovative report compilation model 3.5/4.9 G4.1/G4.2 Green and environment protection/ Energy saving and emission reduction at power source side /Hydropower transmission from west to east EN5/EN16/EN17/EN18 E2.1 Back Cover 2.4/3.4 P4.1 Green and environment protection/ Energy saving and emission reduction at power source side /clean coal-fired power development EN5/EN18 Green and environment protection/ Energy saving and emission reduction at power source side /Support nuclear power development EN18 Green and environment protection/ Energy saving and emission reduction at power source side /Energy saving-based power generation dispatching EN5/EN18 E1.7/E1.8/ESE2.3 Green and environment protection/ energy saving and emission reduction at power source side /Support new energy development EN18 ESE2.4/E2.15 Green and environment protection/ Energy saving and emission reduction at power grid side /Construct a green power grid EN26/S01 E1.5/ESE1.6/ESE1.9/E1.12/E3.3 Green and environment protection/ Energy saving and emission reduction at power grid side/Implement key projects to boost “West-to-East” power transmission EN18 Green and environment protection/ Energy saving and emission reduction at power grid side /Energy saving and emission reduction operation/Reduce line loss EN5/EN7/EN16/EN18 ESE2.6/ESE2.7 77 A Myriad of Twinkling Lights, Great Rapport of CSG Report Index 78 Performance of the United National Global Compact 我们支持全球契约 Innovative report compilation model ,integrating CSR into management The current practice of report compilation in China is ex post, which makes it difficult to give full play of CSR report in disseminating CSR, improving practice and management.CSG made an innovative approach in CSR philosophy and report compilation . CSG is the In the chapter first one in China adopting “process management” in report compilation. The report spans 3 years (2010,2011, and 2012) , Ten Principles Compliance and progress update in 2011 of the report covering planning , deployment, professional service, publishing, and the first one in China. Businesses should support and The core of “process management ” is to manage the whole compilation process, do dynamic follow-up and service of key social Employee Rights Comply with laws and regulations, implement Labor Law respect the protection of responsibility indices, understand and respond to stakeholders’ demand and expectation in a timely manner, constantly improve Democratic and rules. internationally proclaimed management Pay full respect to and guarantee employees’ right to CSG’s service, and establish CSG as a well-managed ,reputable and leading international power grid delivering quality service to its human rights know, right to participate, right to supervise and right to customers. Integrating CSR in daily operation is in line with the core concept of ISO 26000 and is the first in China. Human Employee Rights express. Rights Make sure that they are not Serve Agriculture, Power supply to 43,800 household with no access to complicit in human rights Rural Areas and power in the past. abuses Report compilation and training rural population Planning CSG held a report compilation launch meeting, organized report Businesses should uphold the and freedom of association and the Democratic deployment: compilation training and identified report compilation objectives In strict compliance with the Labour and Contract Law Communication with stakeholders effective recognition of the management of People’s Republic of China, and sticks to fair employment CSG communicated with stakeholders including customers, media right to collective bargaining and equal pay. 2010 to understand stakeholders’ expectations and requirements. Every plant eligible for trade union establishment has Nov-Dec Identify report compilation focus established trade union. Every staff at grass root level is a The elimination of all forms of CSG compiled report in accordance with CSG-CSR 1.0 scheme, Employee Interests trade union member. forced and compulsory labor identified report focus and indices to be disclosed and kept a close Carry out employee mentoring programme, and help eye on counterparts’ disclosure employees to alleviate psychological pressure and strike a balance between life and work The effective abolition of 100% proposals made by employee representatives Preparation before monitoring Labor Employee Interests were addressed. 332 democratic life meeting was held and A monitoring scheme is established to ensure the scheme can child labor Professional 3,057 correction measures were formulated. Absolute elimination of child labour and CSG acts as an 3year-span, service : meet pre-set indicator objectives Indicator monitoring The elimination of equal opportunity employer, employ any qualified people 3 stages Follow, monitor and collect KPI implementation discrimination in respect of Employee Interests regardless of his/her disability. 2011 employment and occupation Jan-Dec Support and service Every department collected and exchanged CSR case studies Businesses are asked to support Green and and delivered professional CSR services a precautionary approach to Environment environmental challenges Protection In CSG service area, the newly added wind power was Material collection and editing 724.7MW, representing 59.55% increase. Undertake initiatives to Green and Writing Identify report focus, editing report materials, optimize report promote greater environmental Environment The average coal consumption of coal-fired power and framework Environment generation was 305 grams/KWh, representing 4 grams/KWh publication: responsibility Protection Report production reduction than that of 2010. Grid-wide line loss rate was Writing report, design report and publishing report 2012 5.35%, representing 0.93% reduction than that of 2010. Encourage the development and Energy Efficient diffusion of environmentally Jan-May Operation Report publication friendly technologies Officially publication of the CSR report CSG actively facilitates Ethical Central Enterprise initiative, and Businesses should work avoid legal risks, with the focus on internal control enhancement, Antiagainst corruption in all its performance supervision, and put supervision of important decision Law Compliance corruption forms, including extortion and implementation in place. CSG is dedicated to establishing itself as a zero-corruption and clean company. CSG’s long term corporate credit bribery CSR Report plays three functions: Disseminate concept, improve practice and boost management rating is super AAA. In 2011, no major law/regulation breach happened. 79 A Myriad of Twinkling Lights, Great Rapport of CSG Innovative report compilation model 84 About the Report Feedback form This Report is the fifth Social Responsibility Annual Report issued by China Southern Power Grid Co., Ltd. It was written in Chinese and Dear readers: in English. Adhering to the principles of being objective, standard, transparent, and comprehensive, the Report disclosed the Thank you for reading our report. CSG is and will make every effort to improve the company’s safe and quality power supply, and its performance in economy, environment, and society. The Chinese version will be the report.We would appreciate if you could let us know our comments. final version, should discrepancies occur between Chinese and English versions. Time Frame The time frame of the report is from Jan.1st, 2011 to Dec.31st, 2011. Part of the content extends to other years performance to enhance Multiple choice questions: (please tick your choice) comparability and forward looking of the report. 1. You think the Report is in general: Range of report □ Very good □ good □ Ok □ poor □ very poor “China Southern Power Grid Co., Ltd.” is the principle part of the Report, including its subsidiaries, branches and affiliated institutes. 2.You think the quality of the information released is: Compilation Basis □ Very good □ good □ Ok □ poor □ very poor CSG Social Responsibility Index （CSG-CSR 1.0） 3.You think the structure of the Report is: Reference □ Very good □ good □ Ok □ poor □ very poor SASAC’s “Guidelines---About Central Enterprises’ Implementation of Social Responsibility”;( No1, 2008, Research of SASAC); 4.You think the layout design of the Report is: SASAC’s Harmonious Implementation Strategy Guidelines for Central Enterprise in the 12th Five-Year-Plan Period □ Very good □ good □ Ok □ poor □ very poor CASS-CSR 2.0 of Chinese Academy of Social Sciences; Global Reporting Initiative’s Guidelines; （GRI Version 3.1）Complementary Indices for Power Industry （GRI EL） 5.You think the readability of the report is : “China Industrial Enterprise and Industrial Association Social Responsibility Guidelines” , China Federation of Industrial Economics’ □ Very good □ good □ Ok □ poor □ very poor “Recommendations Standards on Social Responsibility of Chinese Enterprises and the Implementation Guide”, China Business Council for Sustainable Development. Open questions Data Source 1.In your opinion, what improvements should the report make? Data adopted in the Report are based on the company’s official documentations,d statistics reports and other published information. Reliability Guarantee CSG guarantees that no false record, misleading statement or substantial omission in the report. Title Description 2.What other social responsibility information should the report disclose? In the Report, “China Southern Power Grid Co., Ltd.” is also referred to as “CSG”, “the company”, or “we”. Ask for a copy of this report You can download an electronic copy from our official website. Should you have any inquires, or should you need a hardcopy, please send email to csr@csg.cn, or call us at (020) 38121917. 3. Any suggestions on CSG’s social responsibility work , please specify: For more readings If you wish to know more about social responsibility of CSG, please visit the official website at : www.csg.cn, and please refer to the Social Responsibility Report published by Guangdong Power Grid, Guangxi Power Grid, Yunnan Power Grid, Guizhou Power Grid , Hainan Power Grid, Guangzhou Power Supply Co., Ltd and Shenzhen Power Supply Co., Ltd in 2011 “CSG Green Development report”. (We would appreciate if you could fax the completed feedback form to 020-38122187) 80 A Myriad of Twinkling Lights, Great Rapport of CSG Feedback form 81 Key Corporate Social Responsibility Performance of CSG in 2011 Power source side customer side Year 2011 National power source structure Power Supply SAIDI of urban users (hours/ household) Economic Total asset (100 million Yuan) 12 8.23 10.42 11.22 Performance 8000 5275 customer structure in year 2011 9 6000 4908 6.66 3837 4404 5.20 3183 6 4000 4838 3 2000 991 122 4.58% 12.57% 1.55% 0 0 2556 1258 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 （Year） 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 （Year） 1.19% 1098 5666 21.35% 13.94% 71.94% 101 Investment in power grid construction ( 100 million Yuan) Investment in R&D ( 100 million Yuan) Power sold (100 million KWH) Ranking among the Fortune 500 (place) 0.10% 915 18.10 149 1000 20 8000 100 833 6668 156 15.80 6027 185 697 14.00 5239 237 226 750 15 6000 200 4597 4826 419 482 10.50 500 10 7.40 4000 300 Hydro power coal-fired power 250 5 2000 400 nuclear power 0 0 0 500 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 （Year） 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 （Year） 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 （Year） 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 （Year） new energy 76866 Primary industry 72.78% other Main Business Data of CSG 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Main Business Data of CSG 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Secondary industry Unit : 10,000 KW SAIDI of urban users (hours/ household) 8.23 10.42 11.22 6.66 5.20 Total asset (100 million Yuan) 3183 3837 4404 4908 5275 Tertiary industry Urban and rural residents Installed power generation capacity : 105619 Investment in power grid construction ( 100 million Yuan) 419 482 915 833 697 Power sold (100 million KWH) 4597 4826 5239 6027 6668 Unit 100,000 KWh Investment in R&D ( 100 million Yuan) 7.40 14.00 10.50 15.80 18.10 Ranking among the Fortune 500 (place) 237 226 185 156 149 Length of transmission lines of 110 KV and above ( km) 107286 124950 139286 151899 161184 Main business revenue (100 million Yuan) 2563 2842 3108 3665 3894 Total power consumption in the five Capacity of transforming equipment of 110 KV or above (10,000 KVA) 35022 40873 48513 57589 61388 Total profit and taxation (100 million Yuan) 372 295 208 320 337 provinces and regions : 7877 Maximum load of unified power generation management (10,000 KW) 6879 8887 13393 10436 11323 CSG installed capacity in year 2011 Power consumption structure in year 2011 Green and Harmonious Electricity transmitted from Investment in the construction the Westto -East of China (100 million KWh) and renovation of rural power grid (100 million Yuan) Environment 1200 1057 1156 1117 969 Society 280 260 230 213 480 2.55% Protection 900 863 210 128 136 74 1.11% 71 1.07% 600 140 612 204 361 64 3.26% 1.09% 5.41% 0.96% 300 70 10298 679 3121 54.80% 0 0 10.18% 46.81% 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 （Year） 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 （Year） Customers’ power saving (100 million KWh) Line-loss rate （%） Voluntary activities participation (person-times) Number of first-time power users (10,000) 22.4 24 8 80000 20 19.75 6.90 6.68 6.35 16.60 6.28 61203 63889 5.35 13.64 Export Hydro power 18 6 60000 15 10.2 10.52 coal-fired power 12 4 40000 10 Key industry 8.8 7199 nuclear power 5.0 16780 3 4.38 Special industry 38.30% 6 2 20000 5 pumped storage 708 Commercial 0 0 0 0 10.62% 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 （Year） 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 （Year） 2009 2010 2011 （Year） 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 （Year） 1590 Bulk sale wind power and other 23.84% Unit : 10,000 KW Resident Main Business Data of CSG 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Main Business Data of CSG 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Agriculture Electricity transmitted from the Westto -East of China (100 million KWh) 863 1057 1156 1117 969 Investment in the construction and renovation of rural power grid 128 136 260 230 213 Other CSG installed capacity：1.8793(10,000 KW) Customers’ power saving (100 million KWh) 5.0 8.8 10.2 22.4 19.75 Voluntary activities participation (person-times) 16780 61203 63889 Unit 100,000 KWh Line-loss rate (%) 6.90 6.68 6.35 6.28 5.35 Number of first-time power users (10,000) 13.64 16.60 10.52 3 4.38 Power saving through power generation dispatching (10,000 tons of standard coal) 258 227 Employees training rate (%) 88 94 96.4 96.3 96.5 CSG power sale : 6668 Power saving through line-loss reduction (100 million KWh) 9.0 11.4 48.5 70.7 66.0 Total external donation (10,000 Yuan) 14000 6712 23274 8280 82 A Myriad of Twinkling Lights, Great Rapport of CSG Key Corporate Social Responsibility Performance 83
