CONSCIOUS* ACTIONS S SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 * i s the name of all the work we do to Please think offer you more sustainable fashion, before you print CoverA both today and H&M Conscious Actions Sustainability Report 2011 tomorrow CONSCIOUS ACTIONS sustainability report 2011 CONTENTS H&M CONSCIOUS A message from our CEO 1 Our strategy 4 Our value chain and its challenges 6 Engaging with our stakeholders 8 Management and Governance 10 How we report 11 Highlights from H&M Conscious in 2011 13 PROVIDE FASHION FOR CONSCIOUS CUSTOMERS 17 CHOOSE AND REWARD RESPONSIBLE PARTNERS 26 BE ETHICAL 48 BE CLIMATE SMART 57 REDUCE, REUSE, RECYCLE 65 USE NATURAL RESOURCES RESPONSIBLY 70 STRENGTHEN COMMUNITIES 79 Contact information 87 H&M Conscious Actions Sustainability Report 2011 Contents H&M CONSCIOUS A message from our ceo A t H&M, our business concept via franchise, Morocco and Jordan. challenges that H&M and the entire is to offer fashion and quality In 2012, we plan to open first stores fashion industry unquestionably at the best price. For us, in Bulgaria, Latvia, Malaysia, face. These include climate change, sustainability is at the core of the Mexico, and, via franchise, working conditions and wages at concept of quality and part of our Thailand. Our goal is to increase supplier factories and the long-term corporate values. our number of stores, in both new availability of natural resources, to and existing markets, by 10–15% mention just a few. Our customers are the heart of our each year. “Our vision is business. They are increasingly showing an interest in sustainability In pursuing this growth, we want and we want them to feel confident to make more sustainable fashion clear: All our Karl-Johan Persson that everything they buy from us is produced with respect for people accessible and affordable to more people around the world. To operations and the environment. Adding achieve this, we must tackle the should be run sustainability value to our products is therefore an important way of in a way that is strengthening our customer offering. economically, “Our customers socially and are the heart environmentally H&M is a design-driven and innovative fashion company. We currently have five brands and around 2,500 stores in 43 countries of our business.” sustainable.” on four continents. In 2011, we entered exciting new markets in Singapore, Romania, Croatia and, 1 H&M Conscious Actions Sustainability Report 2011 Contents H&M CONSCIOUS A MESSAGE FROM OUR CEO I’m very proud of all our I am particularly proud to see that on the environment and improving “Adding sustainability achievements over the past year, H&M is now using more organic social conditions for farmers, Better but a number of things really stand cotton than any other company Cotton will have a key role to play value to our products out. One of the highlights of 2011 in the world. This is just the start. in helping us reach our target. is an important way was that we, together with various stakeholders and experts, developed Our target is to use only sustainable cotton by 2020. A further increase We also continued to introduce to further strengthen a dedicated plan to support social in our use of organic cotton will new innovative materials. Our first our customer offering.” development in Bangladesh. Bangladesh is one of our most be a part of that, but this year also saw the first clothes made from garments made from organic hemp were launched. This fibre has a limited important sourcing markets and Better Cotton hit H&M stores environmental impact and, we we want to ensure that the garment around the world. Reducing stress believe, great potential for the future. To put this vision into practice, industry has a positive impact we have developed H&M Conscious on the country’s development, – our approach to integrating our not just by contributing jobs, “I’m proud to see that sustainable thinking into everything but also skills, education, health, we do. Last year, we set out our seven and improvements in labour and strategic commitments. Working women’s rights. H&M is the world’s to fulfil these commitments, we are continuously creating what we call To build a more sustainable biggest user of ‘Conscious Actions’ throughout our business. These are activities and fashion future, our industry needs to keep finding new ways of organic cotton.” targets designed to move us closer using resources as responsibly and to our vision. In this report, you can efficiently as possible. read about the progress we have made in taking these Conscious Actions. 2 H&M Conscious Actions Sustainability Report 2011 Contents H&M CONSCIOUS A MESSAGE FROM OUR CEO “Our scale means Given H&M’s size and increasingly Our scale means that we have the with Greenpeace and teamedglobal reach, we have a big impact opportunity to promote change up with a number of fashion and on the world around us. But just as well beyond the borders of our sportswear brands to help lead our that we have the big are the opportunities we have to make a difference through the own operations – for example, by promoting improvements in the industry towards zero discharge of hazardous chemicals in our opportunity to Conscious Actions we take. working conditions of the more value chain. promote change We are proud of all the achievements well beyond the than one million people around the world who work in our suppliers’ factories. But in order to tackle we have made during the year. But borders of our “In order to the complex challenges across our we are also aware of the challenges own operations.” fulfil our industry, we need to collaborate ahead. We strive to be as transparent commitments with others. as possible about the progress we make. This report is an important and tackle We play an active role in initiatives part of that. Thank you for taking the complex like the Sustainable Apparel Coalition, the UN Global Compact your time to learn about our Conscious Actions. challenges in and the Better Cotton Initiative, our industry, which are vital to meeting our goals. In 2011, we joined the Fair Wage we need to Network, an initiative that works collaborate to promote fair wages in global Karl-Johan Persson with others.” supply chains; an ambition that CEO, H & M Hennes & Mauritz AB we fully support. We also engaged 3 H&M Conscious Actions Sustainability Report 2011 Contents H&M CONSCIOUS OUR STRATEGY H &M Conscious is the name for all H&M’s work for a more sustainable 2 3 fashion future. It is an approach to 1 managing our business based on the Provide fashion for Choose and reward vision that all our operations should conscious customers responsible partners be run in a way that is economically, socially and environmentally Be ethical 4 sustainable. This means that the needs of both present and future generations should be respected in everything that we do. Be climate smart 5 People, planet and profit: at H&M, we believe that being fully aware of the interconnected nature of these Reduce, reuse, three elements is the key to the longrecycle 7 term success of our business. 6 In order to help us achieve our vision, we broke it down into seven Use natural resources strategic, long-term commitments. responsibly Strengthen communities 4 H&M Conscious Actions Sustainability Report 2011 Contents H&M CONSCIOUS OUR STRATEGY a product’s life cycle H These commitments are an integral element &M aims to offer fashion and quality what goods and services we buy, by working of our business strategy and they cover every at the best price. In doing this, we have closely with our business partners, or by stage of our product life cycle, from designing an impact on the world around us. We collaborating with our stakeholders to tackle the our fashion to how our customers care for the create job opportunities and contribute towards challenges that we share with our industry and garments they buy. economic growth, but we also use natural with the communities in which we operate. resources and cause carbon emissions. As a result, Based on constant dialogue with our external we face a number of sustainability challenges stakeholders and our colleagues across the throughout our value chain. H&M Conscious business, we have built a process to identify and aims to tackle these challenges and, in doing so, prioritise the actions that we need to take over create new opportunities for long term business the short and medium term to help us to meet success. each of these long term commitments. We call all these our Conscious Actions. Throughout To demonstrate what we mean, on the following the year we monitor the progress we make pages we have set out the biggest challenges at towards completing these actions, review and each stage of the life cycle of our products. Below improve our methods and add more actions each stage we have listed in which section of this as our understanding of how to fulfil our report you can find more information about the commitments improves. Conscious Actions through which we work to address these challenges. This report sets out the Conscious Actions we have taken or worked towards during 2011 and For those challenges most closely related to our describes how far we have come in making the core operations, H&M has the ability to directly vision of H&M Conscious a reality. influence the impact we make. For others, our T-SHIRT, ORGANIC COTTON influence is more indirect; for example, we can make a difference through our choices about 5 H&M Conscious Actions Sustainability Report 2011 Contents H&M CONSCIOUS OUR VALUE CHAIN AND ITS CHALLENGES Raw materials level of influence: Design direct indirect level of influence: Producing raw materials like Fabric direct indirect cotton requires a lot of water and goes with concerns about processing Sustainability starts with the chemical use and working level of influence: very first design idea. It’s about conditions. We do not purchase direct indirect the materials we choose and any raw materials directly, but how easy we make it for our we work hard to increase our Fabric production can require customers to care for their influence over the way they are intensive use of chemicals, clothes in a conscious way. produced through collaborations raising concerns for the Our challenge is to offer our and by driving demand for environment and for the health customers fashion that they sustainable alternatives. of workers. We do not have can afford and that they love direct business relationships for several seasons. Read more in: with fabric mills, but we have Read more in: Provide fashion for nevertheless started to build up conscious customers voluntary partnerships with a Provide fashion for number of mills to work together conscious customers Use natural resources towards improvements. responsibly Reduce, reuse, recycle Read more in: Reduce, reuse, recycle Use natural resources Choose and reward responsibly responsible partners Use natural resources responsibly 6 H&M Conscious Actions Sustainability Report 2011 Contents H&M CONSCIOUS OUR VALUE CHAIN AND ITS CHALLENGES Manufacturing SALES level of influence: level of influence: USE direct indirect direct indirect level of influence: H&M does not own any factories. Our around 2,500 stores in 43 countries direct indirect Instead, around 750 independent suppliers make our goods. Ensuring Transport are where most of our colleagues work. This is also where about 90% of our The way our customers take high social and environmental level of influence: direct energy use occurs. Our challenge care of our products has a major standards can be a challenge. We direct indirect is to ensure that we live our corporate environmental impact. From a life monitor compliance with our Code values and that we work in a resource cycle perspective, most energy is of Conduct in all their factories Being present on four continents efficient way wherever we operate. consumed when consumers wash and regularly. But tackling complex requires a lot of transportation. dry their clothes. We are working to issues, such as fair wages or Read more in: This causes carbon emissions. influence how our customers care for overtime, remains a challenge in our By choosing the right modes Be ethical their H&M purchases and to promote industry. Providing training for our of transport we can reduce the recycling of used garments. suppliers and supporting workers’ Be climate smart this impact massively. And, involvement is one way to address as a customer, we also use Reduce, reuse, Read more in: this. Collaboration with others in the our influence to promote industry and beyond is another. recycle environmental consciousness  rovide fashion for P Read more in: among our transport providers. Strengthen conscious customers communities Choose and reward Read more in: Be climate smart responsible partners B  e climate smart Reduce, reuse, recycle Be ethical Choose and reward Strengthen communities Use natural resources responsible partners responsibly Be ethical Be climate smart Strengthen communities 7 H&M Conscious Actions Sustainability Report 2011 Contents H&M Conscious ENGAGING WITH OUR STAKEholders C 63% lose collaboration with our Usually, this engagement is done stakeholders, both internal directly through our relevant and external, is essential in in-house teams. Other times, it enabling us to tackle the challenges is through actively taking part, we face throughout our value chain. and often a lead, in various multistakeholder initiatives. There are a lot of people that 10m contribute to the success of our The table on page 9 sets out our of our colleagues business, from cotton farmers and key stakeholder groups, some of are covered by estimated workers in our suppliers’ factories the ways we engage with them and collective bargaining to our in-store colleagues and our what we have learned their main agreements customers. Each of our stakeholder areas of concern to be. groups has their own perspective on our business. We want to take Conscious Actions interviews with on the issues that are most material factory work ers 8.7 m conducted Throughout the year, we try to to our business and the input we maintain regular dialogue with each receive from our stakeholders major group. This helps not only to helps us to prioritise the Conscious gain an insight into their needs and Actions we take and the resources viewpoints, but also serves to ensure we invest in them. that we benefit from the broader hm.com/whatotherssay fans on Facebook understanding of our business that they can often offer. 8 H&M Conscious Actions Sustainability Report 2011 Contents H&M Conscious ENGAGING WITH OUR STAKEholders CUSTOMERS Communities Employees Suppliers Industry Peers Policy-makers NGOs INVestors H&M is a customer-focused H&M is closely connected We want our employees to Our suppliers are our valued Some challenges are best H&M and our suppliers NGOs are expert advisers H&M is a publicly listed company. Understanding and with communities around the be advocates for H&M brands. business partners. Stable and addressed collectively. We are subject to rules set by on standards and practices company. As such, we are meeting their needs is at the world in which our stores are Motivated and satisfied long term relations are key to work with industry peers and policy-makers. Maintaining throughout our value chain. accountable to our investors. core of everything we do. located and those that host our employees means better mutual growth. Strengthening even companies operating in dialogue with them helps us We rely on their expertise and supplier factories. customer interactions and a their ownership over their other sectors to define industry to stay informed about, and independence to ensure that better and more productive sustainability issues and standards and common sometimes to help shape, our we meet the most up-to-date workplace. involving their employees is responses to shared challenges. legal and regulatory context. standards and to make us important in enabling long-term aware of any concerns. sustainable development. How we engage • In-store customer • Through community partners • We have an open-door • Individual meetings • M  ulti-stakeholder • Individual meetings • R  egular meetings or ad hoc • Annual General Meeting interactions • Interactions with local policy, encouraging constant throughout a partnership initiatives such as the Fair • Industry-wide meetings dialogue on global and local • Annual and quarterly • Customer service authorities feedback • Introduction meetings with Labour Association (FLA), • Responses to official level reports and related press organisation • Through NGO interaction • Store or union representation new suppliers Sustainable Apparel Coalition consultations • Specific programmes and telephone conferences • Social media (8.7 million (local + global) in many markets • Full Audit Programme (FAP) and Better Cotton Initiative • Dialogue through with global local NGOs • Sustainability reporting Facebook fans, • Interactions with IGOs and • European Works Council • Training modules • Various regional and local intermediaries countries • Monthly sales figures 600,000 Twitter governments (EWC) • Interviews with workers in initiatives such • Direct partnerships • Individual meetings followers) • Interviews with workers in • Meetings facilitated through supplier factories through as Sector Roundtables • Partnerships through • Market research supplier factories through our our global framework Full Audit Programme • Different forms of membership organisations, • Consumer media Full Audit Programme (FAP) agreement with Union pre-competitive collaboration like the Better Cotton • Consumer organisations Network International (UNI) Initiative • Regular individual • Community investments performance reviews • Employee surveys in some markets Key issues • Product design • Community investments • Job security and growth • Long-term relationships • Industry-wide social and • Regulatory and legal • Labour rights and supply • Sales development • Product quality and • Employment opportunities • Pay and working conditions • Order/capacity planning environmental challenges, compliance chain working conditions • Profitability durability and impacts on growth • Equal opportunities • Capacity building and skills such as supply chain • Local labour and • Social and economic • Sustainability matters • Product affordability and development • Training and career transfer working conditions and environmental standards development contribution • Expansion • New store locations and • Environmental impact progression • Compliance with our environmental impacts (including minimum wages • Water and chemicals markets • Community support • Supply chain working requirements • Best practice in and social dialogue) management • Supply chain working (i.e. disaster relief or garment conditions • Social dialogue and worker pre-competitive matters • Product safety and quality • Environmental impacts conditions donations) • Conscious Actions in store involvement • Legal and regulatory standards • Chemicals used in requirements • Climate change production processes • Uzbek cotton • Green transport and waste management 9 H&M Conscious Actions Sustainability Report 2011 Contents H&M Conscious Management and Governance L ike all H&M’s activities, our With this support, all departments department are discussed in a our 15 production offices around sustainability work is based at H&M are then individually decision-making forum called the the world. They work directly on a drive for continuous responsible for developing and Green Room with the involvement with our suppliers to support them improvement. This is demanded and carrying out the Conscious Actions of our CEO. in complying with our Code of monitored throughout our business. necessary to fulfil our seven Conduct and develop strategies and We work to make sustainability a commitments. Additionally, about 90 people from methods to make our supply chain natural and fully integrated part of our sustainability team operate from more sustainable. everything we do. All functions report on their Conscious Actions on an annual This is led from the very top; our basis to our CEO, CFO and Head of Head of Sustainability reports Sustainability, who jointly approve directly to our CEO and overall them. They review the progress board of directors responsibility for sustainability made towards fulfilling our seven is retained by our Executive commitments twice a year. Management Team. Ceo Sustainability matters are also Our 20 people strong head office regularly discussed by our Board of Sustainability team is responsible Directors and during 2011 our Head Head of Head of Head of Head of for developing global targets, of Sustainability presented H&M’s sales production Sustainability buying etc. reviewing progress and encouraging sustainability performance during and advising all relevant one of six board meetings. departments on the development manager manager manager manager product environmental social project & and implementation of material Major sustainability issues sustainability sustainability sustainability relations Conscious Actions. influencing more than one 10 H&M Conscious Actions Sustainability Report 2011 Contents H&M conscious HoW we report W e are committed to Our last Sustainability Report or subcontracted by our suppliers. Improving our transparent reporting was published in April 2011. The provided number of worker reporting procedures on the progress we We are signatories to the UN interviews is an estimate based on We are committed to open and make towards meeting our seven Global Compact, and our annual all audits conducted, including those honest disclosure and our reporting is commitments. sustainability report also acts as our performed on factories that did not part of that process. We believe that Communication on Progress (COP). get approved. our involvement in multi-stakeholder Our Sustainability Report, which initiatives, as well as our own efforts is produced annually, covers All data is collected by our Please note that currency to elicit feedback from our our sustainability activities and Sustainability team from the conversions from SEK to other stakeholders, adds value and credibility programmes and our progress in relevant functions within our currencies are approximate figures to our reporting and we have taken making our operations and products organisation and from external based on the conversion rate valid into account comments received more sustainable. The scope of the parties. It is reviewed by our on 30 November 2011. Exact figures through this dialogue in selecting our Report includes the global Group controllers and relevant experts in are provided in SEK only. material issues and choosing which operations of H & M Hennes & our Sustainability team. Conscious Actions to take. Mauritz AB, including all its brands This report is designed to make (H&M, COS, Weekday, Monki, Unless specified, all data concerning on screen reading as convenient We also recognise that many of our Cheap Monday) as well as its fully suppliers and supplier factories as possible. stakeholders expect our reporting to or partially-owned subsidiaries includes all suppliers and factories be independently assured. During globally. It reports on performance that were approved for production 2011 we evaluated different options during the period from 1 December during the reporting period. Each for assuring our report and we will 2010 – 30 November 2011. supplier may own or subcontract to continue this process during 2012. Additional information is available various factories. Factories included As part of this we conducted a gaponline at hm.com/sustainability. in our scope include manufacturing analysis of our 2010 report together or processing (i.e. washing or with Ernst & Young. The feedback hm.com/sustainability dyeing) factories that are owned has been considered in producing 11 H&M Conscious Actions Sustainability Report 2011 Contents H&M conscious HOW WE REPORT this report and in the further development of our data systems. In 2011, we invested in a new central data collection and reporting IT-system, and we plan to continue implementing this during 2012. Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) We use the GRI G3 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines. We have included the indicators from the pilot of the Apparel and Footwear Sector Supplement but have not included them in our self-assessment rating as they are not yet finalised. H&M’s disclosure level against the GRI G3 framework is B (selfdeclared). hm.com/GRIindex hm.com/howwereport 12 H&M Conscious Actions Sustainability Report 2011 Contents H&M conscious HIGHLIGHTS FROM 2011 No. 1 in First Better organic Cotton hits cotton H&M stores “H&M continues to JEANS, Better Cotton According to the latest data Cotton is the raw material we demonstrate leadership reported by the organisation use the most. H&M’s aim is for 20% Textile Exchange, H&M is the all cotton in our ranges to come and innovation biggest user of certified organic cotton in the world. from more sustainable sources by 2020. We plan to further “Before, we used through their an average of 120 litres We started using organic Further increase our use of certified cotton in 2004 and since increase of organic cotton and recycled expansion of of pesticides a year, 2007 we have offered a cotton, but using more Better range of 100% organic organic Cotton is particularly key to cotton garments. In 2011, we cotton use meeting this target. H&M is organic cotton further increased our use of organic cotton by more than 20% an active member of the Better Cotton Initiative. In 2011, we costing about utilisation.” and it now represents 7.6% of our entire cotton use. This increase, launched our first denims made from Better Cotton in H&M stores EUR 825. Since starting the Better combined with the expected around the world. This cotton LaRhea Pepper, future growth in the use of Better is grown in a way that reduces Managing Director, Textile Exchange Cotton programme Cotton, means that we are on stress on the local environment target to meet our goal of using and improves the livelihoods and we have significantly more sustainable cotton only welfare of farming communities. by 2020. First harvesting projects conducted by WWF showed reduced our pesticide Find our more here reductions in pesticide use of Find out more online 32–81% and water savings of 32–49%. At the same time, net profits of participating farmers use, which increases our profits and is better increased by 15–20%. Find out more here Find out more online for our health and our environment.” Drissa Coulibaly, Cotton Farmer, Mali 13 H&M Conscious Actions Sustainability Report 2011 Contents H&M Conscious HIGHLIGHTS FROM 2011 Skirt, ORGANIC HEMP Intensified The plan includes projects to support improved social dialogue efforts for and better fire safety in garment factories, training and access to a better “Hemp can be very like Bangladesh health care for garment workers. As part of the plan we also work both linen and cotton to strengthen the position of 3m women in the community by in fabric form, but it providing grants for female students in higher education has many advantages and by setting up a helpline for women exposed to violence and discrimination. Introducing organic hemp from an environmental Find out more here work ers in H&M is always looking for new perspective. It doesn’t Bangladesh is an important Find out more online Bangladesh to be tr ained in need to be sprayed with purchasing market for H&M ways of bringing our customers but also one of the world’s more sustainable fashion. fire safety poorest nations. Clothing pesticides, it doesn’t Organic hemp is the latest manufacturing employs several until 2013 addition to H&M’s constantly million people and accounts need as much water growing range of conscious for a large proportion of the materials. Organically grown, it country’s exports. As a long-term uses less water than cotton or and it grows quickly and buyer, H&M wants to contribute linen, doesn’t need pesticides to lasting improvements for 440,000 or fertilisers and can thrive in all almost anywhere.” people working in the clothing sorts of soils and climates. What industry. That is why, in 2011, used to be used in ropes, nets we developed an ambitious and sacking, can now be used plan to support long term social in the latest fashion. In autumn 2011, H&M’s Conscious Collection Cia Sohlman, responsible for sustainable development in Bangladesh. featured our first organic hemp materials strategy and development, WORKERS IN garments, alongside clothes made from a range of other H&M’s Buying Office, Stockholm BANGLADESH TRAINED sustainable materials. ON THEIR RIGHTS Find out more here SINCE 2008 Find out more online 14 H&M Conscious Actions Sustainability Report 2011 Contents h&m conscious HIGHLIGHTS FROM 2011 TOP, RECYCLED CUT REMNANTS Addressing negotiations. We hope that this 2,024 knowledge and the network will Fair Wages help us in further promoting fair We used wages in our supply chain and recycled Polyester 9.2m our industry. equivalent to Find out more here Find out more online audits conducted on active supplier pET bottles factories Wages in our supply chain are a key focus in our sustainability work. Wage structures in global supply chains are often complex. “The Fair Wage assessment is an essential step to identify That is why in 2011, H&M joined customers to be recycled. We the Fair Wage Network. The Towards plan to extend this project to all wage practices among suppliers, initiative works to bring together fashion brands, garment closing the our stores in Switzerland and evaluate opportunities to extend and will provide H&M with remedial loop producers, NGOs, worker representatives and researchers this to other countries. to promote fair wages around elements to address the issues. Extracting natural resources for Find out more here the world. In order to gain a the manufacture of garments and better understanding of wage letting them end up in landfill Find out more online structures in our supply chain, in 2012 the Fair Labor Association Participation in the Fair Wage Network after use does not make business sense. We all have to think much will also allow H&M to seek (FLA) will independently assess harder about becoming more wage structures at around 200 resource-efficient. Turning common solutions with other brands of H&M suppliers’ factories worn clothes into something in Bangladesh, Cambodia, usable again could be one way and CSR actors.” China and India, which account to achieve this. While there’s for more than half of total still a long way to go to close the production for the H&M Group. resource loop on a large scale, The concept of a ‘Fair Wage’ we teamed up with iCollect in takes into account living costs, Daniel Vaughan-Whitehead, 2011 to initiate a pilot project in profitability and whether or not wages are set through Co-Initiator Fair Wage Network 17 H&M stores in Switzerland to collect used garments from 15 H&M Conscious Actions Sustainability Report 2011 Contents H&M Conscious HIGHLIGHTS FROM 2011 Towards zero discharge “By committing to ‘detox’ its supply Introducing OUR Mini-MBA During 2011, H&M engaged chain, H&M is not only setting the A successful company needs with Greenpeace regarding our shared ambition to eliminate trend for this season and the good leaders. In a company in which most employees future, it is also sending a clear the use of hazardous chemicals work in around 2,500 stores and achieve zero discharge of worldwide, our store managers message to other brands that using such substances in global textile play a very important role. production. Since 1995 H&M They are the key to ensuring toxic chemicals to make our clothing has been working to reduce the that our company’s values are use and impact of hazardous represented in-store and that chemicals using an approach our colleagues around the world based on the Precautionary Principle. As a leading actor is no longer in vogue. H&M’s are properly supported. In the summer of 2011, the first 19 H&M with a well reputed approach to chemicals management, H&M has landmark commitment has the UK managers graduated from our pilot Mini-MBA programme. potential to be a catalyst for wider the size and ability to encourage From increasing profitability change within the industry. In to envisaging the H&M store of change across the fashion industry. 2011, H&M, together with adidas 2020, this initiative aims to give Group, C&A, Li Ning, NIKE, Inc. our best managers the tools both H&M must now use its size and and Puma, developed a joint to improve performance today roadmap and an ambitious action and to understand the long-term plan to set a new standard for challenges and opportunities influence to lead the entire fashion 50/50 environmental performance H&M faces. and lead our industry towards industry towards a toxic-free future, 72% achieving zero discharges of those chemicals by 2020. Find out more here by working with other committed brands to bring about crossFind out more online GENDER SPLIT ON industry and systemic change.” of our managers our BOARD Marietta Harjono, Toxic Campaigner are women at Greenpeace International 16 H&M Conscious Actions Sustainability Report 2011 Contents 1 Commitment S PROVIDE FASHION FOR CONSCIOUS CUSTOMERS 17 H&M Conscious Actions Sustainability Report 2011 Contents COMMITMENT 1 — PROVIDE FASHION FOR CONSCIOUS CUSTOMERS 1 Commitment S PROVIDE FASHION Johan Ward FOR CONSCIOUS CUSTOMERS No. 1 User of organic cotton in the O 2.4m world ur business idea is to offer fashion and Our regular coordinated Conscious Collections are Johan Ward, quality at the best price. To us, ‘quality’ at the forefront of both fashion and sustainability. Head of includes that our products should be They show very clearly that choosing greener Sustainability, produced, transported and sold with care for people fashion does not mean compromising on design H&M Buying and the environment. or price. Our permanent broad range of various Office, Conscious Products makes a better choice easier Stockholm pairs of shoes Our customers are at the core of everything we do for our customers and applies these innovations made with “For me, our commitment to provide water-based and our success depends on our ability to deliver on a bigger scale. fashion for conscious customers adhesives means first of all to listen to our what they want. customers and offer them the 29% But this is only the beginning of our journey. We products and collections they want. But it’s also about informing and We always want to inspire and surprise our keep working every day to make all our products educating our customers about customers and strengthen our customer more sustainable, piece-by-piece and throughout what we do to make fashion more sustainable in a transparent and offering. As they become increasingly conscious our entire range. understandable way. And it means of environmental and social issues, adding that we have to keep inspiring our customers with the designs we offer, sustainability value to our products is one way to Learn here about some of the Conscious Actions the materials we use, the innovations increase in we introduce and the constant achieve this. By making more sustainable choices we are taking to fulfil this commitment. improvements we work to achieve sales of Eu-Flower available to all our customers around the world, in everything we do.” labelled garments we can together contribute to a more sustainable fashion future. 18 H&M Conscious Actions Sustainability Report 2011 Contents COMMITMENT 1 — PROVIDE FASHION FOR CONSCIOUS CUSTOMERS CONSCIOUS ACTIONS Use only more sustainable cotton Timescale: 2020 1.0 % OF MORE SUSTAINABLE COTTON Status snapshot: 7.62% of the cotton we use comes from more sustainable sources ON H&M’S COTTON USE C otton is the material we use most. It is a 7.62% natural, renewable material with many advantages, but it also carries a number of concerns. For example, conventionally grown cotton can have heavy impacts on the environment. By 2020 at the latest we aim for all our cotton to come from sustainable sources that require less water, pesticides and fertilisers and also helps farmers and communities to improve their standard of living. This includes organic cotton, Better Cotton and recycled cotton. By 2011, 7.62% of the cotton we used came from these sources. This share is almost entirely achieved by our increased use of organic cotton but over the coming years, Better Cotton in particular will play a more prominent role. As a result, we are on track to reach our ambitious target for all our cotton to be from more sustainable sources by 2020. hm.com/cotton bettercotton.org Dress, ORGANIC COTTON 19 H&M Conscious Actions Sustainability Report 2011 Contents COMMITMENT 1 — PROVIDE FASHION FOR CONSCIOUS CUSTOMERS CONSCIOUS ACTIONS Launch first garments made Continue to increase usage of organic cotton of Better Cotton in H&M stores timescale: ongoing 1.1 AVERAGE GROWTH IN ORGANIC COTTON USE timescale: 2011 Status snapshot: world’s no. 1 user of certified organic cotton Status snapshot: first garments in H&M stores H&M VS WORLD MARKET 2008–2010 A O ccording to Textile Exchange’s latest Global ur first denim products made with Better 130% Market Report on Sustainable Textiles 2010 Cotton reached H&M stores during 2011. (launched in summer 2011), H&M is the We expect the amount we use to increase world’s biggest user of certified organic cotton. considerably in the coming years. For 2012, our We will continue to support increases in global target is for Better Cotton to represent about 5% of production of organic cotton, but we do expect our total cotton use. It is one of the key initiatives growth rates to normalise (our average growth towards achieving our goal of using more sustainable 39% from 2007–2010 amounted to 130%). In 2011, we cotton only by 2020. As a member of the council of nevertheless further increased our use of organic the Better Cotton Initiative we are actively engaged cotton by more than 20%. It now represents 7.6% H&M World in working towards its success. Market of all the cotton we use. hm.com/cotton hm.com/cotton bettercotton.org textileexchange.org 1.2 H&M’S RANK AS USER OF ORGANIC COTTON* 1 4 5 2008 2009 2010 * SOURCE: textile exchange 20 H&M Conscious Actions Sustainability Report 2011 Contents COMMITMENT 1 — PROVIDE FASHION FOR CONSCIOUS CUSTOMERS CONSCIOUS ACTIONS Support innovation in sustainable materials Develop sustainability index labels for our products timescale: ongoing Timescale: ongoing status snapshot: organic hemp introduced status snapshot: pilot test conducted on 4 products H F &M is an important user of many or conscious customers, trying to understand innovative, more sustainable fabrics like whether or not a product has been produced Tencel, recycled materials and organic in a sustainable way can be difficult. H&M linen. By driving demand, we want to strengthen is a founding member of the Sustainable Apparel the market for these materials and encourage further Coalition which aims to develop an index that gives innovation. In 2011, we extended our range of apparel and footwear products a clear score against materials and introduced our first garments made key sustainability indicators. This will make it easier with organic hemp. H&M also supports Mistra and for customers to compare products and make an their ‘Fashion Future’ project. The project aims to informed choice. In 2011, we initiated a joint pilot of promote systemic change in the fashion industry. It the first version of the index and tested the process produces detailed research on textile recycling and internally on four products. The evaluation of this among other things, on how to speed up the market test is planned for the beginning of 2012. introduction of new innovative sustainable materials. hm.com/memberships hm.com/consciousmaterials hm.com/apparelcoalition mistra.org apparelcoalition.org 21 H&M Conscious Actions Sustainability Report 2011 Contents COMMITMENT 1 — PROVIDE FASHION FOR CONSCIOUS CUSTOMERS CONSCIOUS ACTIONS Help develop European standards for environmental product labelLing Increase sales of garments labelLed with the EU flower by at least 15% Timescale: 2012 Timescale: annually 1.3 PIECES SOLD BEARING status snapshot: Engaged in project with French government Status snapshot: 29% increase achieved THE EU FLOWER LABEL D S uring 2011, we engaged with the French ince 2005, we have sold baby wear bearing 2,632,489 government in an initiative called the the EU’s Flower eco-label. The label certifies Grenelle Project. The project involves that harmful substances have been limited 2,037,600 identifying measurements for environmental impacts and water pollution reduced across the whole 1,875,000 and finding the best ways to make these impacts production cycle of these garments. As with all other 1,400,000 transparent for customers. As part of the project, H&M garments, baby wear must also comply with H&M looked at one of our t-shirts and evaluated the H&M’s strict Chemical Restrictions. In 2011, we sold total water use, CO2e emissions and eutrophication 2,632,489 pieces, an increase of 29% on the previous impacts throughout its life cycle, from growing the year. This performance indicates strong demand from cotton to the disposal or recycling of the garment. our customers for these products. Our target is to 2008 2009 2010 2011 Collecting the necessary quality data for this increase sales by 15% annually. We also plan to make ambitious undertaking is a challenge. However, these garments out of 100% organic cotton by 2012. 1.4 % INCREASE PER YEAR in 2012 we plan for these t-shirts to come with eco-label.com hang tags that inform our French customers about 29 the garment’s environmental impacts. We hope 25 that this project will help in the development of standards for transparent product impact disclosure within the EU, as well as helping us to improve our own performance. 8 2009 2010 2011 22 H&M Conscious Actions Sustainability Report 2011 Contents COMMITMENT 1 — PROVIDE FASHION FOR CONSCIOUS CUSTOMERS CONSCIOUS ACTIONS Increase the knowledge among Introduce climate-smart Provide best possible sustainability our sales advisors about H&M’s washing and care instructions training for buyers and designers sustainability work Timescale: 2012 Timescale: ongoing Timescale: ongoing status snapshot: new care and washing instructions in development status snapshot: 3,600 hours of training for buyers and designers status snapshot: new training method introduced E T W nsuring that our customers are well informed o offer more sustainable products to our e want our colleagues to feel proud of about sustainable fashion extends to how conscious customers, our buyers and designers where they work. We also want to support they care for the garments they buy from who decide what products we offer, have to everyone at H&M in delivering the best H&M. The ‘user phase’ accounts for about 40% of the be well informed about the sustainability value of possible customer service. That is why with the climate impact of a garment’s lifecycle. Reducing the different items. We provide dedicated internal and launch of our first Conscious Collection in 2011 we washing temperature from 60 degrees to 40 degrees external training courses for these colleagues. For rolled out a mandatory in-depth training programme or less can save 50% in energy use. To inspire our example, during 2011 we provided 3,600 hours of for our sales advisors. This informed them about the customers to reduce this impact, in 2011, we started training related to sustainability. sustainable materials used in the collection and how working on complementing our care and washing they relate to H&M’s sustainability work. A study instructions with climate-smart alternatives. We conducted during summer 2011 showed that whilst, have been in close discussions with Ginetex, the as a result, sales advisor knowledge on conscious owner of the current global standard care labelling materials was good, other aspects of our sustainability 3,600 system, to support this goal. We plan to introduce estimated work were not always as well understood as we the first garments labelled with climate-smart care would wish. That is why for 2012 we want to scale instructions in our stores in 2012. up this programme and integrate a broader range of topics. hm.com/care hours of hm.com/training sustainability tr aining to our buyers and designers 23 H&M Conscious Actions Sustainability Report 2011 Contents COMMITMENT 1 — PROVIDE FASHION FOR CONSCIOUS CUSTOMERS CONSCIOUS ACTIONS Produce 2 million pairs of shoes with water-based adhesives instead of solvent-based ones Timescale: 2011 1.5 PAIRS OF SHOES MADE WITH status snapshot: 2,433,772 pieces PRODUCED WATER-BASED ADHESIVES S olvent-based adhesives are often used in the production of shoes and bags, but they can 7,000,000 be harmful to workers in factories if not handled with sufficient protection. In 2009 we started working with chemical manufacturers, producers of adhesives and accessory, bag and shoe suppliers to identify possible water-based alternatives. Trials showed that the content of volatile organic compounds (VOCs) could be reduced by 65%. In 2011, 100% of our bags were produced using these 2,400,000 water-based adhesives. 450,000 In 2010, 450,000 pairs were produced this way as 2010 2011 2012 target well. By the end of 2011, we had increased this by more than 400% to more than 2.4 million pairs. Our goal for 2012 is now to produce 7 million pairs. 2,4 million pairs of shoes made hm.com/chemicals with water-based adhesives 24 H&M Conscious Actions Sustainability Report 2011 Contents COMMITMENT 1 — PROVIDE FASHION FOR CONSCIOUS CUSTOMERS CONSCIOUS ACTIONS Purchase 500,000 Pairs of shoes made with leather from certified tanneries Timescale: 2011 1.6 PAIRS OF SHOES MADE WITH status snapshot: 60,000 pairs of shoes produced LEATHER FROM CERTIFIED TANNERIES L eather products can require quite intense chemical treatment using substances that 500,000 can harm the environment. While we restrict hazardous chemicals through our Chemical Restriction List, we do not source any leather directly and have therefore less direct influence over this stage of our value chain. So, in 2009, we joined the Leather Working Group (LWG) in order to promote sustainable business practices in this sector. Tanneries must comply with high environmental standards before being rated by the Group. 60,000 We planned to produce 500,000 pairs of shoes made 2011 2012 target with leather from LWG certified tanneries. However, 60,000 pairs of shoes made with certified leather in order to ensure process quality and guarantee the availability of the certified leather, we decided to start with a smaller number and produced slightly more than 60,000 pair of shoes, as well as around 13,000 bags. We will revert to the target to produce 500,000 pairs of shoes in 2012. hm.com/memberships leatherworkinggroup.com 25 H&M Conscious Actions Sustainability Report 2011 Contents 2 Commitment S CHOOSE AND REWARD RESPONSIBLE PARTNERS 26 H&M Conscious Actions Sustainability Report 2011 Contents COMMITMENT 2 — Choose and reward responsible partners 2 Commitment S CHOOSE AND Gustav Loven REWARD RESPONSIBLE 442,031 PARTNERS work ers in H Bangladesh tr ained &M does not own any of the factories workers themselves. This contributes to stability Gustav Loven, on their rights since 2008 that manufacture our products. Instead, in the producing countries and tends to translate to Production production takes place at around 1,650 more efficient operations and higher quality products. Office 9,000 factories that are owned or subcontracted by almost Controller, estimated 750 suppliers. Managing our value chain effectively Our commitment is to choose and reward Shanghai to ensure that quality and ethical standards are responsible partners who share our values and are “For me, this commitment is about maintained is a major challenge. Large parts of our willing to work with us to improve their social and helping our suppliers to see a clear connection between social and global Sustainability and Production Office teams environmental practices. Increasingly, to leverage environmental responsibility and work ing days invested in are dedicated to this task. similar sustainability and commercial benefits, we their bottom line. We try to link partnership growth plans to specific sustainability are also working to improve conditions in other social and environmental goals activities targeting Garment production is often located in countries parts of our value chain. and encourage the sharing of best practice between top performing our supplier where human rights violations are a risk and factories 5.6 suppliers and those who are trying environmental awareness is less developed. Respect We have a set of policies in place that guide us to take important steps forward. To reward responsible partners, for people and the environment is an essential part in our daily work. Additionally, we developed a major challenge is how to measure social and environmental of H&M’s values. We use our influence to promote Conscious Actions through which we are working performance. better working conditions and environmental to fulfil this commitment. See some of them in Our ICoC index is of great help in this regard, but a bit of common sense is consciousness throughout our value chain. We the following section and find out how far we also important. I think H&M’s culture sustainability focus on strengthening our suppliers’ ability to have come. of empowering employees to make activities per the right decisions is an important take ownership for their sustainability issues and part of the mix.” k ey factory on working towards greater involvement of the 27 H&M Conscious Actions Sustainability Report 2011 Contents COMMITMENT 2 — Choose and reward responsible partners CONSCIOUS ACTIONS Extend the scope of our Ensure that we choose responsible partners with good potential Code of Conduct to include for improvement when sourcing for new production capacity other business partners Timescale: Ongoing Status snapshot: 99% of all factories audited before receiving orders H&M’s minimum requirements and has the potential Timescale: ongoing Status snapshot: Code aligned and first contracts adopted, first audits conducted H T for further performance improvements in order to &M is a growing company. As we grow, become a long term partner for H&M. In 2011, our he values and standards applied to the suppliers we constantly need to seek new production auditors did not approve 24% of the potential new who produce our commercial goods are capacity. As part of our sourcing strategy, factories. All factories that are approved in this initial equally relevant to H&M’s other partners. we only allow production for H&M to take place assessment are covered by our Full Audit Programme, During 2010, we updated our Code of Conduct so with suppliers and in factories that sign our Code of through which H&M continuously monitors the that it could also be applied to companies providing Conduct and commit to our values. This is the case progress made by each factory. New partners us with other services – for example shop interiors, whether they are owned directly by our suppliers usually show a less strong sustainability performance marketing materials, IT support or logistics. In 2011, or subcontracted to them. And it remains the case than our long term partners – a clear indication of the first of the relevant departments, such as our regardless of the price they offer. New partners must the improvements that our partnership approach logistics team, included the Code into contracts with comply with the minimum requirements from our promotes (see graph 2.7, p33). their partners and we conducted the first audits to Code from the beginning and show the necessary verify compliance. We will continue integration with hm.com/monitoring willingness to work towards full compliance. more business partners during 2012. hm.com/beyondmonitoring When assessing a potential new partner, we start hm.com/codeofconduct hm.com/codeofconduct by providing them with detailed training about the expectations we have of a responsible partner. If, based on this understanding, they continue to show a strong willingness to work with H&M, our commercial sourcing teams often start with a compliance screening process, supported by dedicated tools. If this first assessment is positive, our auditors conduct an in-depth head audit. They have the mandate to take the final decision about whether a supplier or individual factory fulfils 28 H&M Conscious Actions Sustainability Report 2011 Contents COMMITMENT 2 — Choose and reward responsible partners CONSCIOUS ACTIONS Introduce new supplier sustainability performance index – ICoC Timescale: 2011 2.0 ICoC GRADE BY REGION status snapshot: introduced globally 1 SEPTEMBER 2011 – 30 NOVEMBER 2011 W e are constantly looking for ways to 78.52 77.26 improve our audit systems. As part of 76.2 our Full Audit Programme (FAP), in 73.27 2011, we introduced a new index for measuring performance and grading our suppliers, the Index Code of Conduct (ICoC). This gives every supplier a score (max. 100%) based on their level of compliance with our requirements (see graph 2.8, p33) and the quality of their management systems (see graph 2.9, p34). This allows more accurate benchmarking of our EMEA Far South Total East Asia supplier factories, helps them to identify priorities for further improvements and supports us in rewarding 2.1 ICoC GRADE DEVELOPMENT better performing partners. The index will serve as 1 SEPTEMBER 2011 – 30 NOVEMBER 2011 our main tool to follow up and report on our supply 76.1% 76.2% 76.0% chain’s sustainability performance. By the end of 75.8% 75.7% 2011, the average score among our supplier factories 75.5% 75.6% was 76.2%. Early trend data indicates progress is 75.2% 75.2% being made (see graphs 2.0 and 2.1). Key and selected 75.1% factories show a better performance throughout 2011-09-30 2011-10-07 2011-10-11 2011-10-21 2011-10-28 2011-11-04 2011-11-11 2011-11-18 2011-11-26 2011-11-30 following their close partnership with H&M (see graph 2.2, p30). Timespan from September–November has been chosen hm.com/monitoring to provide most comparable and quality secured data. 29 H&M Conscious Actions Sustainability Report 2011 Contents COMMITMENT 2 — Choose and reward responsible partners CONSCIOUS ACTIONS Strengthen long-term supplier relations Timescale: 2011 status snapshot: new Supplier Relationship Management Strategy launched for factories. Factories graded ‘selected’ or ‘key’ are 2.3 ORDER PLACEMENT PER T higher performing ones in relation to a variety of SUPPLIER CATEGORY o strengthen our supplier capacity key factors. As a result, these factories show an above 1% management processes, we launched a new average performance on sustainability (see graph 2.2). On/Off supply chain strategy in Summer 2011. The Currently, 392 out of 1,652 factories are holding this 5% 12% Supplier Relationship Management strategy rests grade and represent 52% of all production for H&M New Platinum on creating mutual benefits and long term strategic (see graph 2.4). 36% business relationships with our best suppliers. Silver 46% hm.com/supplierrelations Well-managed business relationships can turn into Gold successful strategic alliances, based on shared risks and shared rewards supporting sustainable business 2.2 ICoC SCORE FACTORIES performance. H&M considers open communication GRADED ‘SELECTED’ OR and trust to be critical to the success of the ‘KEY’ VS FACTORY AVERAGE relationship. As part of this approach, suppliers are 2.4 ORDER PLACEMENT PER grouped into different categories. Platinum and 79.3 FACTORY CATEGORY Gold suppliers, for example, are long-term strategic 76.2 partners that share values and long term goals. Such 3% 11% 8% long-term partnerships provide mutual benefits for Proﬁle Selected New the supplier, for example by securing stable business through long term capacity planning up to 5 years ahead. By the end of 2011, 150 of our 747 suppliers 37% 41% were graded platinum or gold. These 150 suppliers Important Key represent 58% of all production for H&M (see graph Key & Selected 2.3). As one supplier may often own or use a number All of factories, we also introduced a new grading system 30 H&M Conscious Actions Sustainability Report 2011 Contents COMMITMENT 2 — Choose and reward responsible partners CONSCIOUS ACTIONS Further integrate sustainability Criteria into our order systems Timescale: 2012 2.5 % OF PIECES ORDERED PER ICoC RANGE status snapshot: new index (ICoC) for more systematic integration developed A s a step to further integrate sustainability 38% criteria into our sourcing practices we are introducing our supplier sustainability index (ICoC) into systems and processes relating to capacity 30% planning and order placement. During 2011, we developed a ‘Quantity-Weighted’ version of this index. This quantitative instrument can be used for 16% analysis, goal setting and follow-up to make sure 13% that we are rewarding the right suppliers with our business. While this integration process will continue during 2012, the first analysis of our data shows that during 2011, 54% of our products were made in 1% 2% 0–50 51–60 61–70 71–80 81–90 91–100 factories with an ICoC-score of 81% or higher. While we will continue evaluating this data during 2012, this indicates that orders are more likely to be placed with factories with better sustainability performance. hm.com/supplierrelations hm.com/monitoring 31 H&M Conscious Actions Sustainability Report 2011 Contents COMMITMENT 2 — Choose and reward responsible partners CONSCIOUS ACTIONS 10,000 estimated work er Help to improve compliance with our Code of Conduct through regular monitoring interviews conducted TIMESCALE: ongoing STATUS SNAPSHOT: 2,024 audits conducted their sustainability issues, for example by building I their management capacities, helping to improve n order to follow up on how our business management systems or conducting joint audits, as partners comply with the requirements of our well as by promoting social dialogue and increasing Code of Conduct and to support their progress, workers’ awareness of their rights. we monitor them regularly through our Full Audit Find more details in our supply chain data overview (p. 44-47) Programme (FAP) throughout our partnership. 2.7 NUMBER OF AUDITS hm.com/monitoring We work to constantly improve our audit methods CARRIED OUT fairlabor.org in order to ensure that we are getting an accurate 2,024 picture of supplier performance. This also helps H&M and our suppliers to understand and address 1,060 the root causes of any non-compliance. Additional independent monitoring helps verify our audit factory audits 1,219 systems. In 2011, we conducted a total of 2,024 audits (98 of these using our LAP-method). 964 of these were head audits and 1,060 follow-up audits. As a result of our efforts to increase the share of 2.6 % OF HEAD AUDITS THAT 964 unannounced head audits, their ratio went up to WERE UNANNOUNCED 78% (2010: 68%) (see graph 2.6). While the audit 719 intensity may differ substantially from country to country based on the level of risk identified, on 78% 66% 68% average every factory was audited 1.2 times during 2010 2011 2011. But monitoring alone is not enough. That’s why we go beyond monitoring and focus on helping Follow-up audits our suppliers to strengthen their ownership over 2009 2010 2011 Head audits 32 H&M Conscious Actions Sustainability Report 2011 Contents COMMITMENT 2 — Choose and reward responsible partners CONSCIOUS ACTIONS Update audit methodology to strengthen focus on workers’ basic rights, including freedom of association 2.8 COMPLIANCE LEVEL: FREEDOM Timescale: 2011 status snapshot: method updated, trade union representation in focus We overturned our rule that non-compliance on OF ASSOCIATION/TRADE UNION I related requirements would result in immediate n connection with the introduction of our supplier rejection. Non-compliance will instead REPRESENTATION ICoC grading system, we launched the third now result in lower compliance scores. In turn, 100% 100% 100% updated version of our FAP-audit questionnaire. improvements can now be incentivised with higher Compliance levels for workers’ basic rights have scores. This can mean that compliance figures look 75% historically been high, however we recognise worse, but we prefer to know the truth and help bring that detecting non-compliance can be a major about real improvements. While the challenge of challenge. To be sure that our audits are accurate, addressing freedom of association in China remains, we strengthened our methodology for complex yet we are already gaining a better picture of trade 3% 5% extremely important issues like forced labour and union representation among our supplier factories. EMEA Far East* South Asia freedom of association. As part of this, we have To support these shifts in our auditing practices, we made a major shift in the way we assess compliance have provided additional dedicated training to all our Audit question: Is freedom of with the right to freedom of association. Instead of auditors. This year, two training workshops were association respected? (2010) asking if a worker’s right to freedom of association conducted by the Fair Labor Association (FLA) and Audit question: Is there a trade union is respected, we now measure if trade unions are the consultancy Just Solutions. represented in the factory? (2011) actually in place. *China not included due to the fact that hm.com/monitoring freedom of association is generally not fairlabor.org granted by law. 33 H&M Conscious Actions Sustainability Report 2011 Contents COMMITMENT 2 — Choose and reward responsible partners CONSCIOUS ACTIONS Strengthen supplier ownership over sustainability by supporting better management systems Timescale: ongoing status snapshot: 1,941 management systems analysed compliance score. During 2011, we updated our I management systems scorecard and provided two n the long run, we want our suppliers to take person days of related training to each of our auditors. charge of their own sustainability. We call this During the year, we conducted a total of 1,941 approach ‘supplier ownership’. One way to management system analyses and focused particularly achieve this is to help our suppliers in developing on systems related to grievance, communication and better management systems. We systematically assess safety – areas that are fundamental to our suppliers’ the effectiveness of these systems in our supplier ability to develop ownership over their sustainability factories in order to prevent non-compliance issues issues. We regard a meaningful dialogue between from arising. Through our ICoC grading system we management and workers, including functional score each factory on their management systems. grievance and communication systems, as key to The score feeds into its total grading, alongside its preventing issues from arising or, if they do, to solving them in good faith. 1,941 2.9 MANAGEMENT SYSTEM ANALYSES Find more data details in supply 65% chain data overview (p. 44-47) 58% 56% 56% hm.com/beyondmonitoring 55% 53% 53% supplier 52% 50% 401 47% 45% management systems 236 278 44% 42% 41% analysed for 178 166 152 improvements 133 146 29% 22 63 27 74 13 45 7 Recruitment Management system score Safety Rules and Forced labour Subcontracting Abuse and Waste water Chemical Sandblasting Communication Discrimination Health Regulations handling Number of management system to prevent harassment Overall Workers’ child labour recruitment training systems analysed Grievance 34 H&M Conscious Actions Sustainability Report 2011 Contents COMMITMENT 2 — Choose and reward responsible partners CONSCIOUS ACTIONS Strengthen supplier ownership Support suppliers in building better environmental health & safety (EHS) over sustainability through management systems capacity building Timescale: ongoing status snapshot: programme to build suppliers’ ehs Capacities launched this programme was still being rolled out at the end Timescale: ongoing status snapshot: 1,339 capacity building activities I B of 2011, there were some very promising initial n 2008, we created a role in each of our results. For example, participating factories reported esides auditing the progress our suppliers production offices dedicated to working with an average productivity increase of 20%. make and helping them to improve their Environmental, Health and Safety (EHS) management systems, we focus on building hm.com/beyondmonitoring issues. Often, however, suppliers do not have the their capacity, for example through training and necessary competence in house to manage EHS issues workshops. The aim is to strengthen their ownership 2.10 COMPLIANCE WITH effectively. To address this, in 2011, we launched the over their sustainability issues and help them to ENVIRONMENTAL REQUIREMENTS Building of Supplier EHS organisation programme. detect opportunities to improve their business. This aims to build a corresponding role at our 69% During 2011, we conducted 1,339 capacity building supplier factories that works and communicates with 70% activities, investing an estimated 5,300 person our production office EHS experts to help drive 53% 58% hours. These activities are part of our strategy improved performance. Looking at how this impacts 46% 58% to go beyond monitoring. Together with audits, on compliance, we can see a clear positive trend (see management systems analysis and screenings, this graph 2.10). leads to a high intensity of sustainability activity per factory (2011: 3.3 activities per factory). Due to their Building on this, in 2011 we initiated a capacity higher importance to our sourcing, we put a stronger building project together with internationally EMEA Far East South Asia focus on ‘key’ factories, leading to an average of 5.6 renowned consultancy TUV Rheinland. Ten factories activities (see graph 2.19, p45). with wet processes participated in the programme, as Head audit 1 hm.com/beyondmonitoring these types of factories are often chemical intensive. Head audit 3 The aim was to support them in maintaining a system The data shows the progress on compliance with for workplace organisation and cleanliness, while environmental requirements (including chemical significantly improving health and safety and handling) among all factories in our supplier base chemical management using the 5S method. Whilst between their first and third head audit. 35 H&M Conscious Actions Sustainability Report 2011 Contents COMMITMENT 2 — Choose and reward responsible partners CONSCIOUS ACTIONS Strengthen supplier ownership over sustainability through joint audits Continue to engage fabric mills in our Mill Development Programme Timescale: 2012 Timescale: ongoing 2.11 NUMBER OF MILLS PARTICIPATING status snapshot: 20 joint audits conducted status snapshot: 80 mills participating (2010: 43) IN THE MILL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMME D T uring 2010/2011, we introduced a Joint he Mill Development Programme, which 80 Audit Assessment Programme (JAP) in China started in 2008, targets fabric mills in China in collaboration with 20 factories. Joint and Bangladesh; key fabric providers to our 43 assessments are based on the same methodology as our suppliers. It aims to improve compliance with both 24 Full Audit Programme, but H&M and factory staff our chemical restrictions and the environmental conduct the audit together. This way, our suppliers and safety requirements of our Code of Conduct, learn to identify weaknesses in their operations which all participating mills are required to sign. 2009 2010 2011 better and we can mutually agree on targets for This is in line with our Limited Audit Programme improvement and actions to achieve these. The Joint at this second tier of our value chain. In 2011, 80 2.12 NUMBER OF LAP-AUDITS CONDUCTED Audit Programme will initially be available only mills were a part of the programme (69 in China ON PARTICIPATING MILLS for our strategic partners with an advanced in-house and 11 in Bangladesh). Following our first audits we 29 sustainability organisation. As a next step, we plan have seen a major improvement in practices in this to develop a Self Audit Programme (SAP) for this sector, which has rarely been the subject of auditing group of suppliers. The purpose is to complement by international brands. We have also had to reject our audits and to strengthen our suppliers’ in-house nine mills due to severe incidents of non-compliance, sustainability management capacity. Pilots are mainly on minimum wages, missing fire alarms and 16 15 planned for Spring 2012. the use of banned chemicals (see graph 2.12). We have 9 made this programme a routine element of our work hm.com/beyondmonitoring in China and Bangladesh and intend to extend this to 2 2 India during 2012. 2009 2010 2011 hm.com/milldevelopment Passed Rejected 36 H&M Conscious Actions Sustainability Report 2011 Contents COMMITMENT 2 — Choose and reward responsible partners CONSCIOUS ACTIONS Make further contributions to improved fire safety in Bangladesh Timescale: 2013 status snapshot: fire safety awareness films produced and distributed receive the training until 2013. This way, we hope F to bring improvements in fire safety across the entire ire safety is a major issue in Bangladeshi Bangladeshi garment industry. garment factories. Poor electrical installations hm.com/beyondmonitoring and bad maintenance often create significant thedailystar.net/newDesign/news-details fire hazards. We have found that too few resources are available at the Fire Safety Civil Defense authority 18 to ensure that fire safety licences are up-to-date. We have raised this concern with the Bangladeshi Government and engaged the Bangladeshi University 3m of Engineering and Technology and a specialist consultant to assess the electrical installation in two factories. These assessments will be finalised in br ands joined Spring 2012. We have produced two training films forces for better fire safety to increase fire safety awareness amongst employees at all levels in garment factories. We contacted various other brands in September 2011 and together with 18 of them, we launched this training module in collaboration with the most important employer associations in the sector (BGMEA and BKMEA), reaching out to all of the approximately work ers 4,500 exporting garment factories in Bangladesh. to be tr ained on fire safety Accordingly, approximately 3 million workers will 37 H&M Conscious Actions Sustainability Report 2011 Contents COMMITMENT 2 — Choose and reward responsible partners CONSCIOUS ACTIONS Facilitate performance improvements at accessories suppliers in China Timescale: ongoing 2.13 PARTICIPATING ACCESSORIES FACTORIES status snapshot: 61 factories in China part of dedicated programme A 95% 93% nother of our capacity-building projects has 84% 78% focused on accessories factories in China. 70% 68% 66% 65% Its aim is to improve compliance with our 55% 56% 44% requirements in this sector, which is less frequently 42% subject to audits from retail brands and often has a high level of chemical usage. The programme has identified the areas in which remedial work is Health & Safety Environmental Workers’ rights necessary to enable factories in the sector to comply (OHS) Health & Safety (EHS) with H&M’s requirements, such as environment, health and safety and workers’ rights. Building on Participating factories 2008 the intensive training programme that has been Participating factories 2011 running since 2008, we organise an annual ‘fair’, Non-participating 2008 where carefully selected consultants offer their Non-participating 2011 services in areas such as workers’ basic rights, HR, contracts, grievance procedures, forced labour, ICoC score on related requirements 2008 vs 2011 and EHS and discrimination. participating vs comparable non-participating factories (both in China). Our audit results show that participating factories improved performance more than non-participating ones. This clearly indicates the impact that capacitybuilding can have and that is why we see it as a key element of our strategy, alongside audits and management system analysis. 38 H&M Conscious Actions Sustainability Report 2011 Contents COMMITMENT 2 — Choose and reward responsible partners CONSCIOUS ACTIONS Increase workers’ awareness of their rights Timescale: ongoing 2.14 NUMBER OF WORKERS TRAINED PER YEAR status snapshot: more than 440,000 workers educated AND ACCUMULATED 2008–2011 O ften, workers in supplier factories are themselves unaware of their rights and how 442,031 to claim them. In 2008, we teamed up with suppliers and local NGOs in Bangladesh to develop a series of five short films and training packages in order to increase this awareness. During 2011, we continued to distribute the films to all new supplier factories, and also shared the material with other brands. 128,958 workers and middle managers 169,071 128,958 were trained in 2011 alone and, since the start of the project, some 440,000 workers and middle 115,195 managers received this training. 84% of all factories 28,807 producing for H&M in Bangladesh are now using the 2008 2009 2010 2011 Total films as part of their worker training programme. Due to its success, during 2012, we plan to produce and implement similar films in India alongside the NGO Solidaridad. hm.com/beyondmonitoring hm.com/monitoring 39 H&M Conscious Actions Sustainability Report 2011 Contents COMMITMENT 2 — Choose and reward responsible partners CONSCIOUS ACTIONS Assess wage structures at supplier Promote better social dialogue in the garment industry in Bangladesh factories against Fair Wage concept Timescale: 2013 Timescale: 2012 “Through our participation status snapshot: conference held with broad attendance of relevant actors; status snapshot: 200 factories being analysed by Independent auditors F training programME for selected suppliers started in the social A or many years, we have required all our t H&M, we believe that social dialogue is a suppliers to pay their employees the wages key element of successful and stable business dialogue project, they are entitled to, by law or through other operations – both for ourselves and for our suppliers. However, many of the countries our I strongly believe that we applicable standards such as collective bargaining agreements. However, we also want to play a role suppliers are located in lack systems of social will contribute to in ensuring that these wages are fair. That is why in dialogue, such as collective negotiations on wages and working conditions. In Bangladesh in particular, this stabilising the dialogue 2011 we joined the Fair Wage Network and initiated an independent evaluation of wage structures at about has in the past lead to violent unrest and instability. between the management 200 supplier factories that together produce more With help of a comprehensive training programme, we have selected suppliers to develop best practice and the workers.” than 50% of our products. The concept of a ‘Fair Wage’ takes into account living costs, profitability examples of social dialogue at individual factories. Rubana Huq, Managing Director and whether or not wages are set through The training, conducted by consultants from Just at MG Shirtex Ltd., Bangladesh negotiations. Assessments are being conducted by Solutions, will, amongst other things, lead to the independent auditors of the Fair Labor Association democratic election of functioning worker (FLA) at the beginning of 2012. We expect the data to participation committees. The project is part of provide us and our suppliers with helpful knowledge H&M’s Bangladesh Development Plan. to further address this complex and important issue. hm.com/beyondmonitoring hm.com/fairwages hm.com/bangladeshplan fair-wage.com fairlabor.org 40 H&M Conscious Actions Sustainability Report 2011 Contents COMMITMENT 2 — Choose and reward responsible partners CONSCIOUS ACTIONS Support improvements in workplace health & safety and communication systems in Cambodia Timescale: ongoing status snapshot: factory action plans followed-up, industry wide action promoted also address this issue at an industry level through our D close relationship with the ILO-BFC Program and uring the summer and autumn of 2011, with other concerned stakeholders across Cambodia. incidents of mass illness occurred in Furthermore, we continue working on a thorough ten Cambodian garment and footwear action plan in order to find lasting solutions to this factories, of which five factories were producing for complex challenge throughout the sector. H&M, among others. In order to understand the justmeans.com/reports underlying reasons for these worrying incidents, H&M appointed external experts to evaluate these factories. The challenge has been to find out why these incidents happened only in Cambodia and at factories producing different kinds of products, which made it difficult to find a pattern. The investigation reports do not point out one single reason or explanation. Instead, they identified a number of improvement opportunities, as well as a lack of communication between managers and workers, some of which was due to language barriers. In line with the recommendations from these reports, the concerned factories developed dedicated action plans and improvements have been achieved in cooling, ventilation and chemical handling. In other areas, including grievance handling and the creation of Health & Safety committees that involve workers, further progress is needed. We continue our work to 41 H&M Conscious Actions Sustainability Report 2011 Contents COMMITMENT 2 — Choose and reward responsible partners CONSCIOUS ACTIONS Continue to promote ban on Continue to promote improvements in the Uzbek cotton industry sandblasting among other brands Timescale: ongoing status snapshot: Pledge signed to not intentionally use Uzbek cotton parliament rejected a trade deal that would have made Timescale: ongoing status snapshot: ban on sandblasting for our production IN PLACE since 2010 H S it easier for Uzbekistan to export textiles to Europe. &M does not accept underage workers being We continue to welcome political efforts that can help andblasting is a technique used to create worn used anywhere in our value chain, including to end the use of child labour in Uzbekistan. looks, mainly on denims. But without the use in cotton cultivation. The global cotton of sufficient protection equipment it can be hm.com/cotton supply chain is often complex and we do not have hazardous for workers. In 2010, H&M, together with sourcingnetwork.org direct business relations with cotton producers, but Levi’s, introduced a ban on the use of sandblasting we are nevertheless constantly addressing the issue in our supply chains, having already enforced strict of forced child labour in the Uzbek cotton industry. safety requirements since 2006. To further eliminate In 2011, together with about 60 other brands, NGOs the use of this technique in our industry, we support and others, we signed a pledge facilitated by the the international union ITGLWF in their work Responsible Sourcing Network committing us not to encourage more brands to follow our example. knowingly to use Uzbek cotton. We are working We also continue to audit safety requirements for continuously to improve the traceability of the cotton sandblasting facilities in factories that produce for used for our products. While our systems continue H&M, even though they are no longer permitted to evolve, we aim for all cotton to come from more to use these facilities for H&M production. More sustainable, fully traceable sources by 2020 at the and more of these factories are deciding to replace latest. At the same time, we have worked to influence sandblasting with safer alternatives, such as manual relevant policy-makers. In 2011, the European scraping or laser techniques. hm.com/sandblasting itglwf.org 42 H&M Conscious Actions Sustainability Report 2011 Contents COMMITMENT 2 — Choose and reward responsible partners CONSCIOUS ACTIONS Address the issue of sumangali schemes in the Indian textile industry through collaborative action Timescale: ongoing status snapshot: Tirupur Exporter Association (TEA) requested all member companies In 2011, we joined an Ethical Trade Initiative (ETI) to boycott spinning mills with Sumangali schemes project, which coordinates efforts by the industry S and by local stakeholders, such as Tirupur People’s umangali schemes are a form of forced labour Forum (TPF) and Tirupur Stakeholder Forum that involves young women being sent from (TSF). As a result, Tirupur Export Association their home villages usually to work in spinning (TEA) has requested that their members boycott mills. In Tamil, ‘sumangali’ refers to an unmarried spinning mills where such schemes are in operation. girl becoming a respectable woman through hm.com/beyondmonitoring marriage. In return for their work the women and their families are promised a dowry at the end of a three-year contract. H&M views sumangali schemes as absolutely unacceptable and not compliant with the minimum requirements of our Code of Conduct. We address the issue with our suppliers and monitor the existence of any kinds of forced labour through our audit programme. However, as sumangali schemes occur mainly in spinning mills, which are usually second-tier suppliers, we do not have direct contractual influence. We therefore work to address this issue through collaborative actions and public policy. 43 H&M Conscious Actions Sustainability Report 2011 Contents COMMITMENT 2 — Choose and reward responsible partners OUR SUPPLY CHAIN data At a glance A s we strive to be as transparent as possible, In 2011 we worked with 747 suppliers. Out of these, 2.15 SUPPLIERS AND FACTORIES on the following pages we present an 150 are long term strategic partners. 58% of all pieces overview of data from our supply chain ordered were placed with these partners. 513 and our supplier Full Audit Programme. Each of our suppliers may own or subcontract Based on estimates from information submitted by multiple factories. This means that, globally, our suppliers, globally 61% of the employees at our 1,652 factories were approved for making goods supplier factories are women. This represents about for the H&M Group. 392 of these were considered 58% 700,000 in total. ‘key’ factories, representing 52% of the ordered 675 52% 220 pieces. These key factories show an above average sustainability performance (see graph 2.20, p46). 311 464 117 61% 60 169 2.16 % FEMALES IN SUPPLIER FACTORIES IN SELECTED COUNTRIES 216 29 61 106 Number of suppliers Number of % of pieces ordered Number of factories Number of ‘key’ factories % of pieces produced of the employees at our supplier 91% 85% 84% 81% factories strategic partners at strategic partners at ‘key’ factories 77% are women 69% 68% 62% 59% 61% 55% 53% EMEA Far East South Asia 17% Romania IndoCamGreece Vietnam Taiwan China Italy India Turkey BanglaPakistan Total nesia bodia (excl. desh Hong Kong) 44 H&M Conscious Actions Sustainability Report 2011 Contents COMMITMENT 2 — Choose and reward responsible partners OUR SUPPLY CHAIN data At a glance 2.17 HEAD AUDITS AND FOLLOW-UP AUDITS PER REGION 2.18 % OF HEAD AUDITS THAT 2.19 SUSTAINABILITY ACTIVITIES 2,024 WERE UNANNOUNCED 1.68 6.3 5,474 5.6 5.6 1.23 1.23 1,123 1,060 78% 3,161 851 66% 68% 4.6 4.7 2,185 0.64 964 572 1,607 3.5 418 274 329 1,059 3.3 154 272 706 537 589 55 1.4 2009 2010 2011 South Asia Far East EMEA Total EMEA Far East South Total East Asia Head Audits Total Audits Number of activities Average ‘key’ Follow-up Audits Average number all factories factories audits per factory Number of activities All factory ‘key’ factories average We conducted a total of 2,024 audits in 2011. Our ambition is that as many head audits as possible We monitor all our supplier factories regularly Most of these were follow-up audits in the Far East should be unannounced. Over the last two years, through audits. We also support them through region. Most head audits were conducted in the the ratio of unannounced head audits increased from management system analysis, screenings, South Asia region. The average number of audits 66% to 78%. workshops or trainings. Together, on average, per factory increased to 1.23 (2010: 1.14). each factory received such support 3.3 times during 2011. ‘Key’ factories were on average subject to 5.6 such activities. 45 H&M Conscious Actions Sustainability Report 2011 Contents COMMITMENT 2 — Choose and reward responsible partners OUR SUPPLY CHAIN data At a glance 2.20 AVERAGE SUPPLIER 2.21 PROGRESS FROM HEAD AUDIT 1 TO HEAD AUDIT 3 PER AREA OF REQUIREMENTS SUSTAINABILITY SCORE (ICoC) 91% 94% 89% 85% 86% 88% 79.3% 83% 78% 80% 79% 81% 76% 76.2% 78% 78% 67% 53% Child Workers’ Workers’ Health Environment Housing Sandblasting Total labour and basic rights & Safety conditions and chemical young rights handling workers’ Total Factory Key Factories By the end of 2011 a total of 400 factories (142 in to make the data as comparable as possible. This Average EMEA, 63 in Far East and 195 in South Asia) had is particularly the case for workers’ basic rights. completed their third head audit within our Full During 2011, a methodological change has been The average sustainability score (ICoC) Audit Programme. One audit cycle takes around implemented for this area of requirements in order among all factories reached 76.2% 18 – 24 months and includes typically one head to improve the detection of instances of nonin 2011. Key factories show above audit and three follow ups. The data show that these compliance. As a large number of factories (225) average performance. factories achieved a two percentage point increase completed their third head audit during 2011 based in their total compliance during this process. This on this improved methodology, we had expected a must be seen in the light of improvements in our decrease in compliance with workers’ basic rights audit methods over time, which has an effect on the and were pleased to see a stabilised level instead. direct comparability of the results, although we aim 46 H&M Conscious Actions Sustainability Report 2011 Contents About our suppliers OUR SUPPLY CHAIN data At a glance Compliance level from 2011 audits on all active factories per area of requirements EMEA Far East South Asia Total Area of requirements Compliance Compliance Compliance Compliance Child Labour and young workers 65% 84% 99% 84% Workers’ basic rights 70% 84% 76% 77% Workers’ rights 76% 62% 83% 75% Health and safety 76% 73% 81% 78% Environment 68% 59% 63% 62% Housing 68% 85% 80% 84% Home workers n.a. 32% n.a. 32% Sandblasting and chemicals 52% 70% 75% 70% Metal plating n.a. 78% 100% 82% Transparency and monitoring 95% 93% 98% 96% Grand Total 73% 74% 80% 77% Please find details per audit question and further commentary here. Production countries 2011: EMEA: Bulgaria, Denmark, Egypt, France, Germany, Greece, Italy, Latvia, Lithuania, Morocco, Netherlands, Poland, Portugal, Romania, UK, Ukraine, Sweden, Tunisia, Turkey Far East: China (incl. Hong Kong), Cambodia, Indonesia, South Korea, Taiwan, Thailand, Vietnam South Asia: Bangladesh, India, Pakistan, Sri Lanka Supplier and factory terminology definitions: Supplier is an independent company with which H&M has a direct business relationship. Factories are all factories which were approved for production. This includes factories owned or subcontracted by our suppliers. One supplier may own or subcontract multiple factories.‘Key’ factories are factories graded either ‘key’ or ‘selected’ in our factory grading system. These factories are identified as best performing factories in various regards, including sustainability and significance to our business. ‘Strategic’ partners are suppliers graded either platinum or gold in our supplier relation management system. Second-tier suppliers or factories are the suppliers of our suppliers, such as fabric or yarn manufacturers. In general, H&M has no direct business relationship with actors at this stage of the value chain. 47 H&M Conscious Actions Sustainability Report 2011 Contents 3 Commitment S BE ETHICAL 48 H&M Conscious Actions Sustainability Report 2011 Contents COMMITMENT 3 — BE ETHICAL 3 Commitment S BE Ann-Charlotte Berglind ETHICAL 5,434 T o us, being ‘ethical’ means acting with Our ethical approach is firmly rooted in our Ann-Charlotte integrity at all times and in all of our corporate values. We take a clear stand against all Berglind, activities. We rely on many thousands of forms of corruption and regard our diversity as an Employee new fulltime equivalent people and hundreds of relationships with other asset. Our employees are key to our success and it’s Relations jobs created companies and organisations in delivering our vital for us to retain our committed and talented Manager, H&M business objectives. Whether they are customers, colleagues, and as we grow to attract even more Head Office, 6 years colleagues or business partners, we believe that such people. As a result, we want to ensure that we Stockholm showing respect towards everyone who contributes are a fair partner to them as well as to our suppliers. “Being ethical in my daily work is all to H&M’s success is fundamental to our business. We, as a minimum, comply with all relevant about creating a positive Employee Relations climate. One that respects laws and regulations and, beyond that, aim to act and supports the rights of our aver age LENGTH OF ethically in everything we do. colleagues. Creating an atmosphere EMPLOYMENT that values each and every person at H&M as our greatest asset is OF our full-time crucial for our success. Engaged colleagues employees, fully involved in, and 50% enthusiastic about, their work, will continue to provide our customers with great customer service and help H&M to grow and to employ even more colleagues.” of our board members are women 49 H&M Conscious Actions Sustainability Report 2011 Contents COMMITMENT 3 — BE ETHICAL CONSCIOUS ACTIONS Initiate an internal audit Programme to monitor compliance with HR related CONTINUE TO CREATE AND CONTRIBUTE TO EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITIES policies and processes Timescale: ongoing 3.0 ACCUMULATED NET JOB CREATION Timescale: 2012 Status snapshot: 5,434 new full-time equivalent jobs in 2011 Status snapshot: audit method developed 2007-2011 (FULL-TIME EQUIVALENT) H F &M is a growing company. Our aim is to 24,019 or several years, we have had an internal audit increase our number of stores by 10-15% 18,585 system in place to monitor compliance with each year. In 2011 alone, we created more different internal policies and guidelines in all than 5,400 new full-time equivalent jobs net. Over our in-house operations. Building on this, we have 12,575 12,621 the last five years, our growth has resulted in the developed a dedicated internal audit procedure for net creation of 24,019 full-time equivalent jobs 6,174 HR-related processes and policies, including training globally. Additionally, our business contributes to requirements and employee relations policies such as job opportunities for more than one million people 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 those covering diversity, discrimination and equality. employed by our suppliers. While the economic The first audits are planned to be completed in climate is challenging in many countries, we are Net job creation acc. early 2012. confident that we will create further employment 2007-2011 (fulltime equivalent) hm.com/fairpartner both in our own operations and throughout our 9% value chain. hm.com/fairpartner 5,434 increase growth in employment in 2011 full-time equivalent jobs created in 2011 50 H&M Conscious Actions Sustainability Report 2011 Contents COMMITMENT 3 — BE ETHICAL CONSCIOUS ACTIONS Implement new global antiDevelop and implement a global harassment policy training system Timescale: 2012 Timescale: 2013 Status snapshot: policy under development Status snapshot: Training system developed and first tests successfully conducted A W ll our colleagues have the right to work in an e want our colleagues to feel valued and to environment free of harassment. To emphasise give them the opportunity to grow and this, in 2011 we initiated the development of develop within H&M. As we grow, we a globally-applicable anti-harassment policy. We plan need to ensure that our training is of a consistent to finalise the policy in 2012 and communicate it to quality worldwide while also taking into account all colleagues. We intend to make this policy, as well diverse local needs. Therefore, we have strengthened as all other relevant policies, part of our mandatory our global training organisation and developed a global induction process for all new employees within the learning management system called ‘GROW’. Among H&M Group. Compliance with the policy in our other benefits, the system allows all our employees different subsidiaries will be promoted through our globally to access e-learning courses and relevant new dedicated HR audit procedure. information about training within the H&M Group. It More information hm.com/training also serves as a course booking facility for instructionhm.com/fairpartner led training sessions (ILT) and a library for mandatory and optional training courses, including education on 72% sustainability. All of the courses are made up of modules suited to different needs. We use various training techniques, including ILT, which is classroombased, and self-study with e-learning tools, which is carried out either at the workplace or from home. The of our managers are femalE system will go live during 2012 and the implementation will continue into 2013. hm.com/training 51 H&M Conscious Actions Sustainability Report 2011 Contents COMMITMENT 3 — BE ETHICAL CONSCIOUS ACTIONS Increase compliance with safety Ensure best possible workplace safety policies in our stores to 90% Timescale: ongoing Timescale: 2012 Status snapshot: 3,684 evacuation training sessions arranged Status snapshot: 75% compliance W O e want to create a pleasant working ver recent years, we have worked to 2,792 environment throughout our operations. strengthen the collection of safety-related This includes ensuring that our employees data from our global business units. To are safe. Where accidents and occupational illness are minimise the risk of accidents, we conduct yearly a risk, measures must be taken to prevent them. All audits in all our stores. As part of this, the auditor employees working at H&M have a responsibility helps stores to make action plans to reach our for safety, so training is vital. We need to ensure Fire safety standards for a safe working environment. We are that 100% of our employees are trained from the tr aining sessions targeting a compliance level of 90% by the end in stores beginning of their employment. This is why we will of 2012. 3,684 arr anged start integrating our security and safety training into our digital Learning Management System during 2012. 3.1 COMPLIANCE WITH SAFETY REQUIREMENTS AT STORE AUDITS Evacuation tr aining sessions 2,973 75% 90% in Stores Store Audits arr anged conducted 2011 2012 target 52 H&M Conscious Actions Sustainability Report 2011 Contents COMMITMENT 3 — BE ETHICAL CONSCIOUS ACTIONS Ensure compliance with our Code Protect customer and employee data of Ethics Timescale: ongoing Status snapshot: 894 training sessions on information security Collection and protection of personal data by our Timescale: ongoing Status snapshot: approximately 100% of concerned employees signed the Code A A subsidiaries throughout the world must comply with s a major retailer, H&M does hold data about relevant national standards and legislation. Employee s well as requiring our external business both our customers and our employees. data that is handled at Group level (through H&M partners to sign up to our Code of Ethics, we This includes data used in our mail order Hennes & Mauritz AB), such as data included in have made it mandatory for all our employees operations. Many stakeholders are increasingly our global training system, as well as by all Swedenglobally who are in contact with business partners concerned about data security risks. H&M sets a high based subsidiaries, needs to comply with all related to do so too. Based on an assessment of our entire standard in protecting personal privacy. Our data Swedish legislation. business, central office positions have been identified security standard stipulates, among other things, that: hm.com/privacypolicy as carrying higher risks. In 2011, approximately 100% of all employees in concerned positions and around • Personal data shall be processed only for the 90% of all our business partners had signed the Code purpose for which the information is collected and most of them have received related training. 894 • No more personal data is processed than is necessary We will continue to focus on implementation and with regard to the purpose of the processing training. During 2011, we conducted six related • The personal data processed is correct and, if internal audits to verify that sufficient monitoring necessary, up-to-date processes are in place in all our business units. During • All reasonable measures are taken to correct, block 2011, we handled seven incidents of non-compliances, or eliminate incorrect data of which five led to terminations and two to formal • The personal data shall not be kept longer than written warnings. necessary Information security tr ainings hm.com/codeofethics • Personal data shall be protected from unauthorised arr anged in Sales use/processing. organisation 53 H&M Conscious Actions Sustainability Report 2011 Contents COMMITMENT 3 — BE ETHICAL CONSCIOUS ACTIONS Raise awareness of our Code of Ethics among all our employees Timescale: End of 2012 Status snapshot: training for lower risk category employees developed B ased on our risk assessment, our Code of Ethics is mandatory only to employees in contact with business partners, however we aim to create broader awareness among all employees about our policy. By the end of 2012, 100% of all employees defined as lower risk (e.g. sales advisors in our stores) should have received dedicated information. In order to ensure that new employees receive the same information, we have made it a mandatory element of their induction process. hm.com/codeofethics 54 H&M Conscious Actions Sustainability Report 2011 Contents COMMITMENT 3 — BE ETHICAL OUR COLLEAGUES’ DATA At a glance O n the following pages, we present an 3.2 NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES 2006–2011 3.3 ACCUMULATED NET JOB CREATION overview of data relating to our colleagues 2007–2011 (FULL-TIME EQUIVALENT) around the world. 94,000 87,000 15% 14% 24,019 18,585 29 73,000 68,000 11% 9% 60,000 59,440 64,874 50,000 53,430 53,476 12,575 12,621 47,029 40,855 6,174 0% years is the 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 aver age age of 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 our colleagues % 63% Number of employees Number of employees Total Full-time equivalent Over the last five years, our growth created a net job The H&M Group keeps contribution of accumulated growing and creating new jobs, 24,019 full-time equivalent both in total as well as in fulljobs globally. This amounts 94,000 time equivalents. More than to an average net creation of more than 4,800 jobs or 10% of our colleagues per year. are covered by collective employees bargaining (2010: 87,000) agreements 55 H&M Conscious Actions Sustainability Report 2011 Contents COMMITMENT 3 — BE ETHICAL OUR COLLEAGUES’ DATA At a glance 3.4 RATIO FULL-TIME VS PART-TIME 3.5 RATIO PERMANENT VS TEMPORARY 3.6 RATIO MEN VS WOMEN 3.7 RATIO OF FEMALES EMPLOYEES 2011 EMPLOYMENT CONTRACTS 2011 AT BOARD OF DIRECTORS 23% 80% 50% 72% Temporary employment contract Women 54% 77% 50% 46% Part-time Permanent Men Full-time employment contract Total Management Colleagues 54% (2010: 60%) of our employees 77% (2010: 79%) of our While we do not follow a formal 80% of all our colleagues are work part time and 46% (2010: employees have permanent quota, our Board of Directors is women, and they also represent 40%) full time. Full-time and employment contracts, 23% equally split between women and 72% of our management part-time positions are defined (2010: 21% ) temporary ones. men (five women and five men, positions (from store managers according to applicable national This includes replacements including two female employee to CEO). or local standards. Part-time during parental leave or other representatives). positions are often occupied by kinds of leave. students or parents. 56 H&M Conscious Actions Sustainability Report 2011 Contents 4 Commitment S BE CLIMATE SMART 57 H&M Conscious Actions Sustainability Report 2011 Contents COMMITMENT 4 — BE CLIMATE SMART 4 Commitment S BE CLIMATE Hideaki Takami SMART -11% energy use per Square metre in store since 2007 C limate change is one of the major challenges In the long term, we aspire to contribute to more Hideaki Tak ami, 80% over of our time. As much as any other organisation greenhouse gas reductions globally than our Regional or individual on the planet, we have an operations emit. To achieve this aspiration we Logistics interest in taking action to tackle this, and also need to use our influence to raise awareness and Controller – a responsibility to do so. encourage action on climate change well beyond Asia, Hong Kong the scope of our direct operations. “Today, H&M’s logistics are on a of volumes The nature of our core business means that we global scale with a high level of shipped from our complexity. Transporting goods can suppliers to our consume energy for transport and electricity. We are developing and supporting emissions have a big climate impact. My work distribution centres We strive to be as energy efficient as possible and reduction initiatives – by working with transport is to collect necessary information by sea or r ail to support and encourage all our to ensure that an ever-greater proportion of our providers and supplier factories, by raising logistics sites to be as efficient as 3.16 energy comes from renewable sources. awareness among the general public and by possible, save energy, and minimise climate impacts. I believe that being lobbying governments for stricter legislation. climate smart can be achieved by good team work and by making sure that everyone who can play a role We want to inspire our customers to play their in reducing our emissions is well informed about how to do so. I’m tonnes co 2 e own role in reducing the climate impact of buying happy to be a part of this.” PER MILLION and using our products. SEK OF sales (2010: 3.33 tonnes) 58 H&M Conscious Actions Sustainability Report 2011 Contents COMMITMENT 4 — BE CLIMATE SMART CONSCIOUS ACTIONS Reduce direct greenhouse gas emissions by 5% relative to sales Timescale: Each year until 2012 4.0 CO2 -e EMISSIONS IN TONNES 4.1 2011 CO2 BY SCOPE Status snapshot: achieved I 3.5 3.33 3.3% n 2011, we achieved our target for a 5% reduction 3.16 3 Scope 1 Scope 1 (direct emissions, in emissions through offsetting. CO2-e emissions i.e. fuel use) per million SEK sales were 3.16 tonnes (2010: 35.6% Scope 2 (indirect emissions 3.33). The reduction was achieved through reducing Scope 3 from consumption of purchased the transportation of goods via air by 32%, through 0.5 0.55 electricity, heat or steam) improved energy efficiency in our stores and by 0 0 Scope 3 (other indirect offsetting using Gold Standard verified carbon emissions, such as resulting 2009 2010 2011 2012 (target) 61% from outsourced transport reduction projects. During 2011, H&M began using Scope 2 and business travel) an energy and resource management software system CO2e emissions in tonnes which is enabling major advances in environmental per million SEK sales data collection and analysis. For consistency and tCO2e offset 4.2 2011 CO2 comparability of our climate impact year on year, we BY EMISSIONS SOURCE have applied the new system to our climate results back to 2009, our baseline year. The result is a slight 4.0% 10.0% People Transport shift in the base year intensity (from 3.38 to 3.50 tCO2e/MSEK sales), but the trajectory of climate Other Facilities 10.9% Goods Air Transport target remains a minimum 5% reduction year on year. 13.3% hm.com/climate Goods Road Transport 53.9% Stores Electricity 7.3% Goods Ocean Transport 0.6% Goods Rail Transport 59 H&M Conscious Actions Sustainability Report 2011 Contents COMMITMENT 4 — BE CLIMATE SMART CONSCIOUS ACTIONS “By supporting Gold Standard carbon reduction projects, H&M -5% 41 is mitigating climate change and benefiting communities around the in relative world. The support of H&M makes co 2 -e emissions clean energy available in growing economies to displace the use of fossil fuels, as well as providing additional benefits at the project sites, such as employment for factories participating residents, improved air quality, in Supplier Energy Efficiency Progr ammes and support for local schools.” Designed for UK climate week Jonathan Shopley, Managing Director, The CarbonNeutral Company 100% of our tr ansport partners in the US and Canada are Smartway registered 60 H&M Conscious Actions Sustainability Report 2011 Contents COMMITMENT 4 — BE CLIMATE SMART CONSCIOUS ACTIONS Use LED lights for all store signs Reduce energy use in stores by 20% per square metre, compared to 2007 at new stores Timescale: By 2020 4.3 REDUCTIONS OF ENERGY USE PER STORE Timescale: By 2011 Status snapshot: 11% reduction in energy use per store square metRE Status snapshot: All new stores equipped with LED store signs SQUARE METRE (2007 BASELINE) O L ur target for energy efficiency is to reduce ED lights save up to 75% of energy use store energy use per store square metre by compared to neon lights. In 2011 we have 20% by 2020, against a 2007 baseline. With -8% made it a requirement to use LED lights for an 11% reduction achieved by 2011, we are on track -11% logo signs in all newly built stores. We estimate to achieve this target. Total energy use has been that this shift during 2011 alone has made possible reduced in newly built and rebuilt stores through the a reduction of about 470 tonnes CO2e – equivalent implementation of environmental guidelines for new to the emissions caused by the electricity use of about stores. Reductions in existing stores are the result of a -20% 60 households in one year. We plan to gradually constant management focus on energy efficiency. replace the signs across all our stores as these are 2010 2011 2020 target rebuilt or refurbished. hm.com/climate hm.com/energy 61 H&M Conscious Actions Sustainability Report 2011 Contents COMMITMENT 4 — BE CLIMATE SMART CONSCIOUS ACTIONS Source at least 20% of our energy Promote energy efficiency in our supply chain from renewable sources Timescale: 2012 and beyond Status snapshot: 41 factories participating product life cycle as they indicate that the 45 factories Timescale: 2020 Status snapshot: own photovoltaic installation generates about 705,000 kwh A S participating so far alone emit a similar amount of t H&M, we recognise that our climate CO2 to all our c. 2,500 stores. ourcing more electricity from renewable responsibility extends not only to our direct sources is a key target, but it remains difficult to 45 hm.com/energy emissions and those of our energy providers, monitor progress in achieving it because of the but also to those emissions that are created in the lack of a robust framework for defining what qualifies manufacturing and distribution of the goods that we as renewable energy. sell. During 2010, we worked with business partners to set up Supplier Energy Efficiency Programmes We are working with a range of stakeholders, in a number of our production countries. The including the European Retail Round Table (ERRT) programmes connect supplier factories to energy and its members, the World Resources Institute service companies to identify potential efficiency (WRI) and the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP), to gains and provide support for developing action plans find a consensus on how to define, measure and report to take advantage of these. Our target is to include suppliers have set on renewable energy use. Despite this uncertainty, we 100–120 factories within these programmes by 2012. up supplier energy have made investments to help us move towards this 20% By 2011, 45 factories in China, Bangladesh, India efficiency target. For example, photovoltaic solar panels have and Turkey had undergone (14) or started (31) this progr ammes been installed at our distribution centres in Germany process. During 2011, we developed data baselines and Belgium. In 2011, both generated approximately for participating factories and we will evaluate their 705,000 kwH of solar energy – enough to supply performance against these during 2012. Already, the improvement in about 130 average European households with energy first data indicate energy efficiency improvements energy efficiency for one year. of around 20%. They also highlight the importance indicated from first results hm.com/climate of improving energy efficiency at this stage of our 62 H&M Conscious Actions Sustainability Report 2011 Contents COMMITMENT 4 — BE CLIMATE SMART CONSCIOUS ACTIONS ENCOUrage all our main road Transport as many goods as possible via environmentally carriers in North America preferable modes to become SmartWay partners Timescale: ongoing 4.4 RATIO OF VOLUMES SHIPPED (m3) PER Timescale: 2011 Status snapshot: More than 80% of all goods shipped via sea or rail from Suppliers Status snapshot: 100% of core road carriers are now SmartWay partners I MODES OF TRANSPORT FROM TURKEY 2011 W n 2011, more than 80% of the volumes we 91% here road transport has to be used, we transported were shipped from suppliers to our 80% aim to limit emissions as much as possible. distribution centres via sea or rail. As an example 45% SmartWay is a programme run by the US of how we work, we are increasingly shifting from 43% Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) that offers road to rail when moving goods from Turkey, an 7% 10% 11% evaluation and certification of the environmental 9% important sourcing market, to our European sales 0% 1% 1% 0% performance of road carriers. All SmartWay Partners markets. On the routes from Turkey to our Asian 2009 2010 2011 are recognised for their commitment to reducing sales markets, we have also worked to limit air Sea Air Rail Road emissions from their fleets. In 2011, all of our core transport and use ocean carriers instead. Graph 4.4 road carriers in the US and Canada were registered shows progress to date in making this shift. For the as SmartWay partners, up from 70% in 2010. first time, in 2011 most of the goods coming from hm.com/transport Turkey were transported by rail. Air transport has epa.gov/smartway been almost completely avoided. Given this positive development, we will continue working to shift transport to environmentally preferable modes wherever possible. hm.com/transport 63 H&M Conscious Actions Sustainability Report 2011 Contents COMMITMENT 4 — BE CLIMATE SMART CONSCIOUS ACTIONS Encourage all our core carriers Promote the development of a in Europe to become WayAhead Promote the Clean Shipping Index SmartWay equivalent system in Europe registered among our ocean carriers Timescale: ongoing Timescale: 2012 Timescale: 2011 Status snapshot: discussion ongoing Status snapshot: in most countries achieved Status snapshot: All shipping providers are now Registered A U T longside other companies, in 2010, we ntil a SmartWay equivalent is developed in he Clean Shipping Project aims to improve the started promoting the possibility of setting Europe, WayAhead, which we developed environmental performance of the shipping up a programme in Europe similar to the in collaboration with members of the industry. We have been part of the Clean SmartWay programme in the US. We strongly European Retail Round Table (ERRT), remains Shipping Network for a number of years and promote believe in the concept and feel that there is a need for the best tool for evaluating European truck carriers’ its use amongst our carriers. The Clean Shipping such a programme. Future implementation in Europe environmental performance. Since 2010 we have Index monitors the environmental performance of would replace the ERRT WayAhead initiative, which used it to communicate our minimum requirements maritime transport service providers worldwide. we currently promote among our carriers in Europe. for transport service providers and to evaluate Service providers enter vessel-specific data into a their compliance. By the end of 2011, our transport database, which scores their performance. Originally hm.com/transport partners in most European countries were registered. limited to Sweden, the Index was launched EuropeWe are confident that our carriers in the few wide in 2010. Registration in the Clean Shipping remaining countries will be registered during the Index was made a minimum requirement for our core 2012 tender processes. ocean carriers in 2010. Since 2011, all our shipping providers have been registered and submitted the hm.com/transport requested data. We have now made it a requirement way-ahead.org that data for at least two of their registered vessels must be third party verified. hm.com/transport cleanshippingproject.se 64 H&M Conscious Actions Sustainability Report 2011 Contents 5 Commitment S REDUCE, REUSE, RECYCLE 65 H&M Conscious Actions Sustainability Report 2011 Contents COMMITMENT 5 — REDUCE, REUSE, RECYCLE 5 Commitment S REDUCE, David Rostron Using reusable REUSE, boxes for tr ansport to our RECYCLE 400,000 stores saves trees each year compared to using O conventional ffering our customers fashion and quality We want to reduce, reuse or recycle wherever David Rostron, cartons at the best price means that we need to possible. Our ultimate aim is to send zero waste Building keep unnecessary costs down. Making the to landfill. Controller We used recycled most of the resources we buy and avoiding waste H&M UK and 9.2m polyester at every stage of our value chain is central to this. However, at H&M we believe that our commitment Ireland, London equivalent to This resource efficiency also helps us to minimise the to waste reduction should go beyond this. We also “Helping the environment is a negative environmental impact of our operations. want to use our position as a major retailer to help personal thing to me, but being a part of H&M allows me to contribute our customers and business partners to reduce the to a team effort with much wider pet Manufacturing waste, transport and product waste that they generate. impact. As building controller, I bottles can combine cost savings with packaging, shopping bags, shop fittings and 100% sustainability goals such as construction waste from building new stores are all increasing recycling rates for operational and construction waste sources of waste generated across our operations. or reducing the electricity use in all stores. As part of my role I also work with experts to identify how of our plastic we can reduce both the operational consumer bags are and embedded carbon of our made of recycled stores. Reducing our impact on the material environment makes good business sense – but it’s also something we have to do as human beings before future generations pay the price. Being part of a corporation that can and does make a difference means a lot to me.” 66 H&M Conscious Actions Sustainability Report 2011 Contents COMMITMENT 5 — REDUCE, REUSE, RECYCLE CONSCIOUS ACTIONS Initiate a pilot project to collect worn garments for recycling in H&M stores Develop a Group-wide waste strategy Timescale: By 2011 Timescale: 2012 Status snapshot: pilot conducted in 17 stores Status snapshot: strategy in development D W uring 2011, we teamed up with iCollect aste management regulations and to initiate a pilot in 17 of our stores in recycling opportunities vary from Switzerland to collect used garments from country to country, and sometimes even customers for recycling. To encourage our customers from region to region within a country. Some stores to take part in this initiative, we offered an H&M gift use the recycling facilities offered by shopping centres voucher for each bag of clothes brought to our stores. or landlords and others have separate waste contracts, We plan to extend this project to all our stores in or return waste to our distribution centres. Dress made from recycled cut remnants Switzerland and evaluate opportunities to extend this also to other countries. This broad variation of circumstances poses a challenge to implementing a consistent Grouphm.com/recycling wide approach. Our general requirement is that all ico-spirit.com waste should be reused or recycled, such as transport packaging and hangers. In order to have better knowledge and control over our waste impacts at a Group level, we are currently developing a global waste strategy. As part of this, we are working towards improved reporting on relevant waste indicators. hm.com/recycling 67 H&M Conscious Actions Sustainability Report 2011 Contents COMMITMENT 5 — REDUCE, REUSE, RECYCLE CONSCIOUS ACTIONS Make 100% of our plastic carrier bags of recycled material Further promote innovation and the use of recycled fabrics Timescale: 2010 Timescale: ongoing Status snapshot: 100% recycled PE used Status snapshot: recycled polyester equaLling 9.2 million PET bottles used C W arrier bags can cause a lot of waste. In order e use a range of recycled materials to make to determine the best environmental choice some of our clothes, for example recycled for our consumer bags, we conducted an incotton, recycled wool and recycled depth life-cycle analysis comparing various materials. polyester. Recycled polyester is often made of PET This showed that recycled plastic is the best available plastic bottles. The amount that we used in 2011, choice, with lower environmental impacts than paper. equates to more than 9.2 million such bottles. While That is why we have switched to a recycled material further innovations will be needed to help recycled for all of our standard plastic consumer bags. Since materials play a bigger commercial role, we believe 2010, they have been made from 50% post-consumer that we can support this process by driving demand and 50% pre-consumer recycled polyethylene and thereby encouraging further innovations. (PE). This change has led to estimated savings in hm.com/consciousmaterials CO2-e emissions of approximately 34% relative to conventional plastic. 34% hm.com/carrierbags OUR PLASTIC CARRIER Bags; NOW 100% recycled 100% recycled less Co 2 -e emissions than conventional content in plastic plastic bags 68 H&M Conscious Actions Sustainability Report 2011 Contents COMMITMENT 5 — REDUCE, REUSE, RECYCLE CONSCIOUS ACTIONS Minimise transport pack aging Reduce waste resulting from construction of new stores Timescale: ongoing Timescale: ongoing Status snapshot: reusable transport boxes save more than 400,000 trees Status snapshot: guidance developed W compared to standard paper cartons F e aim to increase the number of H&M or many years, we have worked to use as little stores by 10 – 15% each year. Building 90% transport packaging as possible. This helps or rebuilding stores can create a lot of us to limit both our environmental impacts waste. Much of this, however, can be recycled and in and our costs. When we send the garments from our many cases this can lead to cost reductions. To make distribution centres to our stores, we use reusable sure that we make the best of these opportunities transport boxes instead of cartons. This makes savings throughout our operations, we have developed of more than 400,000 trees possible compared with further guidance for all our sales countries. We have using new, conventionally made cardboard boxes also started to demand recycling reports for our for each delivery. We also work to minimise the construction projects. use of single garment packaging when transporting products from our suppliers to our distribution of the paper centres. By 2011, we managed to minimise the use used for mak ing of such packaging to almost zero. our mail order pack ages is recycled cardboard 69 H&M Conscious Actions Sustainability Report 2011 Contents 6 Commitment S USE NATURAL RESOURCES RESPONSIBLY 70 H&M Conscious Actions Sustainability Report 2011 Contents COMMITMENT 6 — USE NATURAL RESOURCES RESPONSIBLY 6 Commitment S USE NATURAL RESOURCES Claire Hau & Lars Doemer 3.5m RESPONSIBLY kg less pesticide used due to our use of organic cotton F rom using cotton to transporting finished Growing scarcity tends to mean rising costs, so Claire Hau & 300m garments and lighting our stores, H&M is a resource efficiency will increasingly be seen as a Lars Doemer, consumer of natural resources. We depend on source of competitive advantage in our industry. Global H&M them throughout our value chain to do business and Production meet the needs of our customers. To operate as a sustainable business, we are office, Hong Litres of water committed to conserving water, soil, air and Kong saved in denim However, increasing scarcity of some resources species. We also try to influence our customers “As a part of the global production production globally, like oil and minerals, and regionally, like and other stakeholders to help them use natural office, we work closely with all (TARGET 100M) our local production offices water or agricultural land, means that access to resources responsibly as well. on environmental issues. We these vital inputs for our business cannot be taken support and initiate projects 100% and programmes on energy and for granted. water saving and substitution of hazardous chemicals that lead to more responsible use of natural At H&M, we recognise how important it is for all of resources. Acting proactively, of H&M paper us to use natural resources responsibly, considering we also work intensively with different industry partners, like the carrieR bags the needs of both present and future generations. chemical industry, to find better made of FSC alternatives and methods for certified production processes.” paper 71 H&M Conscious Actions Sustainability Report 2011 Contents COMMITMENT 6 — USE NATURAL RESOURCES RESPONSIBLY CONSCIOUS ACTIONS Make 100% of our paper carrier bags Reduce environmental impacts in cotton from FSC certified paper cultivation by using more sustainable cotton Timescale: 2011 Timescale: ongoing Status snapshot: 100% FSC certified paper for all H&M paper bags Status snapshot: around 3.5 million kg of pesticides saved W B e use paper bags under certain y aiming to use only more sustainable cotton circumstances, for example for specific by 2020, we want, amongst other things, to H&M campaigns, or due to legislation contribute to significant reductions in the use Dress, organic cotton in some countries. While they only represent 5-10% of pesticides, fertilisers and water. The amount of of our total use of bags, we still want to make sure organic cotton that we are already using today means that they are produced with minimal impact on the that around 3.5 million kg less pesticide is used, environment. All paper bags used in H&M stores compared with conventional cotton. This reduction are now made of paper that originates from FSC will increase as we progress towards our 2020 target. certified forests. The planned increase in our use of Better Cotton will also result in major water savings. Trial projects hm.com/carrierbags showed that farmers adopting the Better Cotton systems used 32% – 49% less water than before. hm.com/cotton bettercotton.org 72 H&M Conscious Actions Sustainability Report 2011 Contents COMMITMENT 6 — USE NATURAL RESOURCES RESPONSIBLY CONSCIOUS ACTIONS Help to lead our industry to zero discharge of hazardous chemicals Continue constantly to review and update our chemical restrictions Timescale: By 2020 Status snapshot: joint roadmap developed together with industry peers Timescale: Ongoing Status snapshot: restriction levels made public in 2011 at the beginning of 2012 which will also disclose S W restriction levels for all non-textile products, for ince 1995, H&M has been working practically e restrict chemicals considered as example cosmetics. to reduce the use and impact of hazardous hazardous through the H&M Chemical hm.com/chemicals chemicals. As a leading actor with a well Restrictions list which all suppliers are hm.com/zerodischarge reputed Chemicals Management approach, H&M contractually bound to comply with. Our Chemical has the scale and ability to go beyond ensuring that Restrictions list has been updated 10 times since our own products are safe, to also encourage change 1995, most recently in 2009. It now contains more 200 within our entire industry – a huge challenge, but than 200 restricted substances. Our restrictions are, one that we take very seriously. That’s why we as a minimum, always based on the highest legal more than teamed up with adidas Group, C&A, Li Ning, standard in any of our sales countries. As stated in NIKE, Inc. and Puma to develop a joint roadmap. our Sustainability Policy, we apply the Precautionary In addition, we have initiated a set of complementary Principle. This means that we act proactively to substances 30,000 individual actions. This includes additional measures restrict chemicals, even if there is still scientific restricted to ensure the compliance with our usage ban uncertainty about whether they are harmful, and around on APEOs which we have had in place since 2009. often go well beyond legislative demands. To We follow up on this target through a dedicated ensure this, we always keep ourselves up to date on section on our website. the latest developments and consider information from authorities, NGOs and scientific reports. We chemical tests hm.com/zerodischarge made the restrictions list public many years ago. conducted annually hm.com/chemicals In 2011, we decided to increase our transparency further by disclosing all related restriction levels for textile products. We plan to publish an updated list 73 H&M Conscious Actions Sustainability Report 2011 Contents COMMITMENT 6 — USE NATURAL RESOURCES RESPONSIBLY CONSCIOUS ACTIONS Replace solvent-based POLYURETHANE (PU) with water Ban fluorocarbons based alternative Timescale: 2012 Timescale: By 2014 Status snapshot: first fluorocarbon-free outerwear in store Status snapshot: different Alternatives tested F H luorocarbons are commonly used for making andling solvent-based chemicals can be outerwear water resistant. Unfortunately, they harmful to workers, so we aim to phase are extremely persistent and bio-accumulative. out the use of any such substances in the At H&M, we sell only a few water-resistant products. production of our products wherever technically Nevertheless, we want to make sure that these are feasible. In co-operation with the chemical company made without the use of these substances. For a long Bayer, we conducted trials to convert traditional time, available alternatives showed major downsides solvent-based polyurethane (PU) material into water– for example being elusive. But since 2010, we have based PU. We tested a range of alternatives that could found and used one alternative that has proved to be used for different product types and styles. The deliver both, good quality and fewer risks for the first results were very promising, but ensuring quality environment. Starting with our children’s wear and scalability remains a challenge. The next step is to range, products using this alternative have been launch products using water based PU and gradually available in our stores since then. They are labelled scale-up our use. with the “Bionic Finish Eco”-label. We are currently hm.com/chemicals testing a second alternative in order to ensure reliable supply. Following this, we aim to fully ban fluorocarbons by 2012. hm.com/bionicfinish 74 H&M Conscious Actions Sustainability Report 2011 Contents COMMITMENT 6 — USE NATURAL RESOURCES RESPONSIBLY CONSCIOUS ACTIONS Promote the development of harmonised corporate Ban toluene from production water accounting and reporting standards Timescale: 2011 Timescale: Ongoing Status snapshot: Usage ban enforced Status snapshot: active involvement in Water Disclosure Working Group T H oluene is a solvent which is connected to &M joined the Water Disclosure Working a number of health risks for production Group (WDWG) in 2010. The group is workers. During 2010, H&M identified that part of the UN CEO Water Mandate. It toluene was being widely used in the production of works to drive the harmonisation of existing and accessories. A workshop with all relevant suppliers emerging corporate water disclosure initiatives. The was held to educate them about the negative health development of the first pilot guidelines is currently impacts of toluene. In close co-operation with planned for the end of 2012. suppliers and chemical companies, we have identified hm.com/water suitable substitutes and enforced a global ban on CEO Water Mandate toluene in our supply chain. We will continue to monitor the implementation through our chemical management testing routines. hm.com/chemicals H&M FOR WATER-COLLECTION 75 H&M Conscious Actions Sustainability Report 2011 Contents COMMITMENT 6 — USE NATURAL RESOURCES RESPONSIBLY CONSCIOUS ACTIONS Save 100,000,000 litres of water in production of denim and other Promote reduced water consumption in garment production water-intense garments Timescale: ongoing 6.0 SUPPLIER WATER EFFICIENCY Timescale: 2011 Status snapshot: 70% of reporting factories use less than 100 litres per KG of garments Status snapshot: 300 million litres saved 2010-2011 W T e monitor water efficiency at supplier he production of denim can be particularly 72% 70% factories. We focus on factories located in water-intense. We found out that better water scarce areas, as defined by the World processes can save about 30% of the water Business Council for Sustainable Development. We use so, to reduce this impact, in 2009, we set up measure the use of water per kg of products made a project with suppliers in Bangladesh, China and 20% 19% and provide our suppliers with this data. While it can 11% later also Pakistan. Having saved 50 million litres at times be a challenge to motivate suppliers to make 9% of water in 2010, we set the goal to save 100 million savings in countries where water is free of charge <100 100-200 >200 litres in 2011. As part of this, we looked into how (i.e. Bangladesh), we complement the monitoring these water-management improvements could also 2010 with dedicated projects to drive water savings help our suppliers save water when making other 2011 in denim production and through our cleaner water-intense products. We exceeded our target production programme. Number of factories: 305 considerably, with usage reduced by 300 million litres compared to previous production processes in The graph shows the ratio of factories, using less than 100, between 100 – 200, or more than 200 litres of water for making 1 kg of final clothes. Data 2011 alone. provided is submitted by 305 of our supplier factories. hm.com/water hm.com/water 76 H&M Conscious Actions Sustainability Report 2011 Contents COMMITMENT 6 — USE NATURAL RESOURCES RESPONSIBLY CONSCIOUS ACTIONS Develop and implement environmental guidelines for the Monitor waste water quality at supplier factories purchase of non-commercial goods Timescale: ongoing 6.1 SUPPLIER WASTE WATER QUALITY MEASURES timescale: 2012 Status snapshot: improvements on BOD, stabile on COD, Improvements needed on TSS Status snapshot: guidelines including chemical restrictions developed S H 90.6% 93.3% 96.6% 95.7% ince 2006, we have required suppliers who 83.7% &M has established a series of guidelines 82.8% have wet processes such as dyeing to avoid 73.4% 78.8% 77.8% 78.6% to promote more sustainable choices when environmental damage by treating their waste 61.7% 58.5% 67.9% purchasing non-commercial goods. These 76.3% water. Waste water quality in our supply chain has 59.8% are products that we do not sell but use ourselves, to meet quality levels defined by Business for Social for example to decorate our stores or for marketing Responsibility (BSR) or relevant local laws, depending material. Alongside specific guidelines for a broad on which are stricter. These requirements form part of 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 range of materials, we also included detailed chemical our supplier audit programme. Water quality measures restrictions. The aim is to protect the health & safety Total Suspended Solids include organic and chemical pollution levels and of our customers and employees in our stores and to Biological Oxygen Demand suspended solids within the waste water – TSS (total promote the development of more environmentally Chemical Oxygen Demand suspended solids), BOD (biological oxygen demand) conscious products in this sector. First suppliers and COD (chemical oxygen demand). Graph 6.1 shows have already signed the restrictions list as part of the ratio of supplier factories in the lowest threshold their contract with H&M and we will continue the for each of these indicators, against the BSR standard. implementation during 2012. We have started to The more factories are in the lowest threshold, the follow up on this new requirement through a mix better the performance. The data shows a slightly of random chemical tests, audits, self-reporting and increased proportion of factories in the best threshold by requesting Material Data Safety Sheets (MSDS). for BOD, and a slight decrease for COD, while we We plan to evaluate our processes during 2012. face a major decrease for TSS. We will continue to monitor the development with relevant suppliers and, wherever needed, request dedicated action plans to improve performance. hm.com/water 77 H&M Conscious Actions Sustainability Report 2011 Contents COMMITMENT 6 — USE NATURAL RESOURCES RESPONSIBLY CONSCIOUS ACTIONS purchase RSPO certificates for any products containing palm oil 0% Timescale: By 2012 Status snapshot: ALL palm oil used compensated for P alm oil is associated with environmental harms, such as deforestation, and with social issues, such as poor working conditions. of the leather, shells or wood H&M uses very little palm oil; just nine tonnes in we use for our 2011. This was mainly used to make candles that are products may come sometimes offered in our HOME collection. Despite from endaNgered this low amount, we still want to contribute to a species more sustainable palm oil production. That’s why 100% we decided to purchase Roundtable of Sustainable CANDLE MADE WITH CERTIFIED PALM OIL Palm Oil (RSPO) certificates for all candles sold in the collection from 2012. For the nine tonnes used in 2011, we purchased Green Palm certificates. Rspo.org Greenpalm.org of our cosmetic products must be made without the use of animal testing 78 H&M Conscious Actions Sustainability Report 2011 Contents 7 Commitment S STRENGTHEN COMMUNITIES 79 H&M Conscious Actions Sustainability Report 2011 Contents COMMITMENT 7 — STRENGTHEN COMMUNITIES 7 49m Commitment S more than STRENGTHEN Laura Maggs COMMUNITIES SEK invested in supporting communities by H&M and our customers H &M is a part of many communities invest in projects that benefit communities and at Laura Maggs, 2.3m around the world. This includes the places the same time address issues that are important to PR Manager and where our stores are located as well as our business. sustainability communities along our supply chain. responsible, We focus these community investments on water, H&M UK and The way we do business, our values and our the innovation of sustainable raw materials and the Ireland growth have an impact on the development of employment, education and health of women and garments “In recent years, sustainability donated to these communities and more than one million youth. We also provide support to those in urgent has become an increasing part of charitable my role. It makes me very proud jobs around the world. With our size, we have the need; for example through garment donations or to be part of an organisation that causes opportunity to drive positive change for people financial donations in crisis situations. takes its responsibility as seriously as H&M does. I have formed local 2.8m and the environment in these communities. As a relationships with our global result, we have both an interest and a responsibility In this section, we highlight some of the community partners, UNICEF and WaterAid, to instigate local coto strengthen these communities. That is why we Conscious Actions that we are taking to live operations that are in keeping with up to this commitment. our global community investment people reached strategy. We also have additional local community investment with preventive partners: the British Red Cross, the health education Woodland Trust, and Climate Week. and care By taking a collaborative ‘glocal’ approach we can engage and inspire our customers and colleagues to take further steps together towards a more sustainable future.” 80 H&M Conscious Actions Sustainability Report 2011 Contents COMMITMENT 7 — STRENGTHEN COMMUNITIES CONSCIOUS ACTIONS Further contribute to a positive development in Bangladesh Engage our customers in our community investments projects Timescale: 2017 Until: Ongoing 7.0 COMMUNITY INVESTMENTS RESULTING FROM status snapshot: 5 year plan developed Status snapshot: SEK 15,136,057 generated through sales of cause-related products SALES OF CAUSE-RELATED PRODUCTS AND B A DONATIONS RAISED AMONG CUSTOMERS angladesh is an important purchasing market s part of our commitment to provide fashion for H&M but also one of the world’s poorest for conscious customers, we offer our nations. Clothing manufacturing employs customers products with added sustainability 15,136,057 several million people and accounts for a large value. One way we do this is to offer cause-related proportion of the country’s exports. H&M is an products and collections. This way we engage our important contributor to this and, as a long-term customers in supporting H&M’s community projects 11,491,276 buyer, we want to make sure that we also contribute and help raise awareness of the issues they address. In to lasting social and economic development. That recent years, we have developed a set of reoccurring is why in 2011 we developed an ambitious plan to collections called ‘Fashion Against Aids’, ‘WaterAid’ support long-term development in Bangladesh. The and ‘All for Children’. At least 25% of the net sales of aim is to strengthen workers’ influence over their these collections are invested into the related projects. conditions and increase their skill level while also In 2011, we raised SEK 15,136,057 in this way. We promoting stability in the labour market. The plan also encourage our customers in several of our sales includes dedicated projects to support improved social countries to contribute to other good causes with Cause-related In-store dialogue, promote fire safety in garment factories, direct donations made in our stores, for example in products donations facilitate skills development and provide better access the case of major catastrophes. In 2011, our customers to health care. As part of the plan, we also work donated SEK 11,491,276. to strengthen the position of women by providing hm.com/faa grants for female students in higher education and by hm.com/wateraid setting up a helpline for women exposed to violence hm.com/allforchildren and discrimination. hm.com/bangladeshplan 81 H&M Conscious Actions Sustainability Report 2011 Contents COMMITMENT 7 — STRENGTHEN COMMUNITIES CONSCIOUS ACTIONS Invest in more employment and education among women and youth “I want to give my 2,079 Timescale: Ongoing Status snapshot: 2,079 people with improved skills children a good T he majority of our customers, our employees and also our suppliers’ employees are women. education. I want them Strengthening their position in society and in the labour market is therefore important to us. to become teachers At the same time, improving education among youth themselves when they and creating job opportunities for young people is People grow up. The All for Children project has essential for the future growth and development of improved their sk ills many of the communities we operate in. Beside our through our community direct economic contribution, we invest in a number investment projects improved the teaching of projects to support employment and education among women and young people. Some are broad methods in school and the food quality. Today 5,688 programmes, such as our All for Children project (in collaboration with UNICEF) and Hand in Hand’s Village Upliftment Programme (a project supported the children come home by the H&M Conscious Foundation). Others are and teach their parents tailor-made local projects, such as our Women in children enrolled about the things they have learned in school.” Retail project in Saudi Arabia, our own training in formal education centre in Bangladesh, and scholarships for women in through our All for Bangladesh. In 2011, 5,688 children enrolled into a Children project Deivam, Mother of Sevvanthi, student bridge school or formal education through our All for at Pereri, G.T.R., middle school, India Children project and another 2,079 people improved their skills through other projects. hm.com/communityprojects 82 H&M Conscious Actions Sustainability Report 2011 Contents COMMITMENT 7 — STRENGTHEN COMMUNITIES CONSCIOUS ACTIONS Invest in safe drinking water and basic sanitation for some of the Invest in better health FOR women and youth around the world world’s poorest communities Timescale: ongoing snapshot: more than 2.8 million people reached with preventive training and our suppliers and the organisation, Smiling Sun, we Timescale: ongoing since 2002 status snapshot: 38,347 people provided with access to clean drinking water in 2011 T information or healthcare provide access to affordable healthcare to garment W workers and their families in Bangladesh. Through hrough H&M’s partnership with WaterAid e support a variety of projects to promote the H&M Conscious Foundation, we support Hand and the H&M Conscious Foundation’s support better health around the world. Since in Hand’s work to provide free medical care in India for FRANK Water, we work to provide 2008, H&M has supported the fight and have just entered a new partnership with an safe drinking water and sanitation for some of the against HIV/AIDS through our annual Fashion innovative social entrepreneur called Gynius that world’s poorest communities in Bangladesh, India Against Aids campaign. The aim of the project is works to combat cervical cancer in Bangladesh. and Pakistan. Since the start of our Partnership with both to raise awareness of HIV/AIDS among young Together with Wateraid we are providing safe WaterAid in 2002, contributions made have helped people in our sales countries and to generate money drinking water and sanitation in Bangladesh, an estimated 150,000 people to access safe drinking for prevention and health projects around the world. India and Pakistan and provide hygiene education. water and basic sanitation. Through FRANK Water’s In India and Bangladesh, two of the countries where Altogether, H&M invested SEK 22,626,708 into eight projects in India, 101,550 people benefit from many of our suppliers are located, our projects focus these projects in 2011 alone and, together with our purified drinking water. In 2011, H&M invested SEK on health and nutrition. Both are among the countries partners, we reached more than 2.8 million people 6,074,000 in water-related projects. with the highest rates of undernourished children in with preventative information and more than 8,000 hm.com/communityprojects the world according to the World Bank. Our All for people with actual healthcare. Children project works to promote children’s right to health and nutrition. In cooperation with three of hm.com/communityprojects “H&M’s support has helped over 150,000 people gain “The social impacts resulting from H&M’s access to clean water, investment will improve the lives and futures of the improved sanitation and children and the communities in which they live.” hygiene.” Tim Hunter, Deputy Director Fundraising, UNICEF Jan Eliasson, Chairman of the Board, Wateraid Sweden 83 H&M Conscious Actions Sustainability Report 2011 Contents COMMITMENT 7 — STRENGTHEN COMMUNITIES CONSCIOUS ACTIONS Invest in better livelihood in cotton cultivating areas by educating farmers on more sustainable farming techniques through the Better Strengthen young workers’ (16+) Cotton Initiative rights in the workplace in China Timescale: 2012 and beyond 7.1 MONEY INVESTED IN BCI FARMER Timescale: ongoing Status snapshot: 120,000 farmers trained on better farming techniques Status snapshot: Partnership with Center for Child Right Corporate social Responsibility TRAINING 2010–2012 (IN EUR) H W &M is a leading member of the Better Cotton orkers between the ages of 16 and 18 are Initiative (BCI) as part of our efforts to use 700,000 700,000 protected from doing hazardous work or only sustainable cotton by 2020. Besides the 600,000 (planned) (planned) overtime, for example, by Chinese law. environmental benefits of this shift, sustainable cotton In reality, however, requirements like these are not production can improve the lives of millions of farmers always respected in the Chinese garment industry. in developing countries. BCI helps to provide farmers To improve the situation for young workers, the with the know-how and tools to improve farming H&M Conscious Foundation has cooperated with practices. This helps them to produce more with less the Center for Child Right Corporate Social input, which reduces their impacts on the environment Responsibility since 2009 to provide personal and increases profitability and the welfare of the local 2011 2012 2013 development training sessions for young workers. communities. Over 120,000 farmers (approximately These focus on communication skills and career 66,000 in India, 47,500 in Pakistan, over 10,000 in 7.2 NUMBER OF FARMERS TRAINED and life planning to boost their social development. Mali and 104 in Brazil) have been involved in the 120,000 The scheme also helps to develop awareness among initiative so far, all receiving dedicated training. supplier factory managers about specific issues facing the young workforce to help create a more efficient, H&M invested EUR 600,000 in 2011. A further stable and healthy work environment. 66,000 EUR 700,000 each is committed for 2012 and 2013. This helps us to increase the production of Better 47,500 hm.com/consciousfoundation Cotton in line with our demands for the 2012 and 2013 production seasons. 10,000 104 hm.com/cotton Total India Pakistan Mali Brazil bettercotton.org 84 H&M Conscious Actions Sustainability Report 2011 Contents COMMITMENT 7 — STRENGTHEN COMMUNITIES CONSCIOUS ACTIONS Support prevention of drug abuse among youth in Sweden Support emergency relief in East Africa and Japan I “I find it is a wonderful Timescale: Ongoing since 1997 Status snapshot: long term partnership with Mentor n response to the devastating hunger catastrophe idea that H&M works H in East Africa, H&M has donated USD 100,000 &M cooperates with Mentor Sweden in (SEK 637,020) to support UNICEF’s relief their health promotion and drug prevention efforts. H&M has collaborated with UNICEF since in collaboration with work among children and young people in Sweden. The target groups are young people 2004 and has contributed to the organisation’s emergency relief work several times. In addition, the Japan Red Cross between the ages of 13 and 17, parents with children H&M also donated around USD 230,000 (SEK to support the lives of 6-18 years, and schools. Mentor Sweden manages three key programmes: ‘Mentoring’, ‘Parenting’ and 1,916,397) to support the Red Cross’s relief work for victims of 2011’s catastrophes in Japan. We also communities in need.” ‘Inspiration’ activities that create study motivation. provided 208,123 garments. Nodoka, Sales Advisor, The Mentoring programme offers students that are H&M store in Shibuya, Tokyo younger teens the opportunity to have a mentor for In addition, we enable our customers to support a year. H&M encourages employees in Sweden to people in need by initiating fundraising activities become mentors. in-store. In 2011, our customers contributed with another USD 225,000 (SEK 1,732,894) to the victims USD Mentor.se in East Africa and USD 21,000 (SEK 149,000) to Red 225,000 Cross work in Japan. USD 230,000 r aised among our customers to support victims of the hunger donated to catastrophe in support victims east africa of the disaster in Japan 85 H&M Conscious Actions Sustainability Report 2011 Contents COMMITMENT 7 — STRENGTHEN COMMUNITIES CONSCIOUS ACTIONS Support the ones in need with garment donations Timescale: Ongoing 7.3 GARMENT DONATIONS 2011 snapshot: 2.3 million garments donated to charitable causes E 2,330,040 ach year, H&M donates large quantities of clothes to aid organisations in countries in which we operate. We introduced an updated garment donation policy and implementation guidance in 2010. Our policy states that all unsold, safe-to-use products should be donated to charity or, if possible, recycled into something useful. In 2011, 175,961 we donated 2,509,001 (2010: 631,295) such garments globally. 2,333,040 went to charity organisations, Non-sold Garments garments donated for including 208,123 garments that we provided to donated to recycling the Red Cross in the exceptional case of 2011’s charities catastrophes in Japan. In addition, 175,961 garments 2.3m were donated to be recycled. we donated 1,154 hm.com/communities hm.com/recycling garments to charitable young people causes received vocational tr aining since the PICTURE CAPTION TO GO HERE start of the H&M tr aining centre in 1999 86 H&M Conscious Actions Sustainability Report 2011 Contents more information Contact To find out more about H&M Conscious, our We would like to have your feedback. policies, read case studies and previous reports, view videos, find the latest news and much more, Please send your questions or comments regarding please visit: this Conscious Actions Sustainability Report 2011 to: hm.com/conscious Hendrik Alpen at: hendrik.alpen (at) hm.com Follow us in social media: twitter.com/hm Thank you for taking time to learn more about facebook.com/hm H&M Conscious. plus.google.com youtube.com/hm Produced in the UK by Salterbaxter. 87 H&M Conscious Actions Sustainability Report 2011 Contents
