2011 Telefônica Brasil Annual Sustainability Report Summary Letter from the global president 3 Letter from the presidents of Latin America and Brazil 4 Telefônica in Brazil and worldwide 5 Analysis of materiality 7 Sustainability at Telefônica 8 Economic impact 9 Driving progress 10 Managing impacts 11 Privacy and data protection 12 Managing customer relations 12 Innovation 15 Responsibility in the supply chain 16 Environmental impact 18 Environmental management 19 Green ICT 23 Social impact 27 Employees 28 Digital inclusion 30 Emergency response 33 Social projects 33 Incentives for culture and sport 38 Stakeholder engagement 39 Balance sheet 40 Major Telefônica | Vivo recognitions in 2011 41 Key indicators 42 Directives and results in 2011 43 Directives in 2012 44 External assurance 45 Letter from the global president Letter from the global president Dear friends, T elefônica’s vocation to be a strategic ally in the technological, economic and social development of the societies in which we operate is part of our DNA. We are convinced that our sector In this document, you will find an executive summary of our activity in 2011. It was developed based on the three fundamental dimensions of sustainability: Economic (supply chain, codes of is at the heart of the solution for the planet’s main issues: conduct, privacy); Social (climate and commitment, health and Wherever there are information and communication technologies safety, diversity, digital inclusion and social projects); and the productivity increases, education improves, health and energy Environment (energy efficiency and green services). costs are reduced and inclusion is boosted. We are convinced that our company should be a driver of And as a telecommunication sector leader, we at Telefônica development and progress in the societies and countries in which contribute to this development working on two fronts. Firstly, we we operate. Our challenge is to do this a little better every day. foment Corporate Sustainability understood as a strategy based on long-term value creation through the exploitation of opportunities and effective management of the risks inherent to economic, environmental and social development (as defined by the Dow Jones Sustainability Index). Secondly, by means of the Fundação Telefônica, we promote social and cultural action, particularly through educational programs designed to eradicate child labor and to facilitate access to knowledge through the application of Cesar Alierta Izuel Information and Communication Technologies (ICT). Global President, Telefônica Group Telefônica Brasil | Annual Sustainability Report 3 Letter from the presidents of Latin America and Brazil Letter from the presidents of Latin America and Brazil Dear friends, W e are pleased to present Telefônica Brazil’s eighth Annual Sustainability Report. This work has become a unique tool for appraising the company’s performance, openly portraying our We are, therefore, optimistic about building a more sustainable future full of opportunities for everyone. The Brazilian conjuncture, characterized by economic growth, a more even efforts to make Telefônica Brazil an integral and sustainable leader, distribution of wealth and the ascension of lower income groups, respected by all its stakeholders. complemented by a major modification in our area of activity – the opening of the cable TV market –, further strengthens our In 2011, there were numerous examples of our exemplary, enthusiasm for this venture. groundbreaking leadership. One was the serene, ethical way in which we speedily conducted fundamental stages of the integration between Telefônica and Vivo. The success of the process was evident in the increase of our share prices by around 20% in a year in which Ibovespa dropped 18%. Potential complications in the organizational environment generated by the fusion of two high-performance teams were dissipated to such an extent that the employee satisfaction rate reached 85.7 on a scale from 0 to 100, considered exceptional in this type of survey. Our 3G network covers more than 2,500 municipal districts (more than all the other mobile carriers together), connecting the people, companies and organizations in these places with new levels of development. We have extended the experience acquired in fixed Santiago Fernández Valbuena services in São Paulo to other states. We are the leaders in service President, Telefônica Latin America quality, having the lowest number of complaints in the sector. We continually add new products and services to our portfolio, with due attention to eco-efficiency. And through sponsorship and programs, we continue to drive public access to culture and to promote social inclusion through sport and the social use of Antonio Carlos Valente Information and Communication Technologies. President, Telefônica Brasil Telefônica Brasil | Annual Sustainability Report 4 Group profile Telefônica in Brazil and worldwide 3rd largest telecommunications company worldwide The company has 289,000 employees on four continents – Europe, the Active in Brazil since 1998, Americas, Africa and Asia where it is the largest telecommunications company and the Group’s biggest operation worldwide, Telefônica Brazil had The Telefônica institutional brand offers products and services +million than 309 86.9 million clients through its commercial brands accesses in the at the end of 2011. The year was marked by the integration Movistar, O2 and Vivo 25 countries in which it operates of Vivo , whose mobile operation alone has 71.6 million clients and the largest market share (29.5%) nationwide. Created in 1924, in Spain Investments scheduled for Brazil from 2011 to 2014 total R$ 24.3 billion Telefônica Brasil | Annual Sustainability Report 5 Group profile Our importance for the country becomes even more evident if one considers the group of companies which we control or in which we have a significant stake. The major ones are: Telefônica Brasil (Telefônica | Vivo) Atento Fixed telephony services Leader in the contact center in the state of São Paulo and mobile sector in Latin America, Atento is services nationwide, with a complete one of the largest employees convergent product portfolio in the country, with around (fixed and mobile voice, fixed 85 thousand direct employees and mobile broadband, at the end of 2011. ultra broadband – over fiber –, TV, data and IT). TVA Fundação Telefônica | Vivo A cable TV company which Telefônica acquired full control of In Brazil since 1999, the Foundation in the second quarter of 2011. oversees Telefônica Group Prior to this Telefônica was a minority social investment, helping shareholder in partnership with drive ongoing progress in the the Abril Group. Subscriber regions in which the numbers during the year company operates. totaled 699 thousand. TIWS Terra Telefônica International Wholesale Services provides The largest internet company telecommunications services for in Brazil, the Terra portal receives telecommunications carriers and around 50 million accesses internet and content providers. per month and is the most widely The company’s backbone offers accessed video site fiber optic connectivity between in the country. TESB Latin America, the United Telefônica Engenharia de States and Europe. Segurança do Brasil provides complete security technology solutions for large corporations, companies and the public sector. In this document, each chapter addresses the Group companies having the greatest impact on the stakeholder group mentioned, in accordance with Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) recommendations for establishing report boundaries. Accordingly, the economic impacts of the Telefônica Group’s economic activities in the country are presented based on consolidated data from all the operations. The most visible company in this report is Telefônica | Vivo, the Group’s main operation in Brazil. Telefônica Brasil | Annual Sustainability Report 6 Materiality analysis Materiality Analysis This report reflects Telefônica | Vivo’s deep engagement in sustainability, strengthened by transparent conduct which drives market confidence and competitiveness gained from projects that reconcile economic, social and environmental interests I t is our understanding that sustainability is an intangible asset that is fundamental for value creation, made concrete through transparency and competitiveness. Transparency enables us to generate confidence in the markets in which we operate and among our stakeholder groups. Our competitiveness is boosted by the adoption of a sustainable mindset which optimizes resources Measurement Criteria and the incremental revenues produced by relevant sustainabilityInfluence in Telefônica External influence related projects, managing the company’s impacts and exploiting the opportunities generated by technology. Client satisfaction Employees Employee satisfaction Clients We therefore prepared a reporting model based on a perspective Growth Suppliers of economic, social and environmental results as an integrated response to international responsible investment indices (such Efficiency Shareholders / Investors as the Dow Jones Sustainability Index and the FTS 500) and the Return for shareholders Regulators/ Government principles of completeness and responsiveness in the AA 1000 Society Assurance Standard. Communication media Materiality matrix 1 Privacy and data protection 2 6 7 2 Protecting children and adolescents 13 3 Electromagnetic fields High 4 1 4 Green ICT 5 Relevance for interest groups 5 Codes of Conduct 6 Transparency 12 7 Service quality Medium 11 8 8 Supply chain 3 9 Diversity 10 10 Responsible marketing 9 11 Digital inclusion 12 Accessibility Low 13 Environmental management Low Medium High Impact on strategy Telefônica Brasil | Annual Sustainability Report 7 Sustainability Sustainability at Telefônica Telefônica’s route to sustainable growth is based on mapping questions related to our brand’s reputation and continuously improving them, investing in businesses that drive a greener, more inclusive society and engaging in effective, transparent dialogue with our stakeholders A t Telefônica | Vivo we see sustainability as the responsible management of the technological, economic, social and environmental dimensions of our business, enabling us to We seek to contribute to the development of society by driving sustainable technologies, because we believe that they have the power to bring about a positive transformation in the world we live achieve more consistent results and put into practice our vision of in. To this end, we identify business opportunities that promote the transforming possibilities into reality. construction of a greener, more inclusive society, through projects aimed at promoting digital inclusion and social commitment and We believe that with a sustainable mindset we will be able combating climate change. to identify the impacts of questions that influence our brand reputation and focus directly on the solutions to these questions Finally, we will develop a Sustainable Connection with our with a view to transforming our internal processes and improving stakeholders by means of effective dialogue and transparent continuously as a company. communication, which will enable us to identify their expectations and incorporate them into our action plans. Strategic scheme of Corporate Responsibility and Sustainability Vision Value creation Sustainability for interest groups n Effective impact s Managing opportunities l Stakeholder management Optimizing results. engagement St Cost reduction. y eg rat PdA* Risk Accessibility to ICT Energy efficiency Dialogue with Management Model • Eliminate barriers to • Green ICT as driver of interest groups • Identification and access to ICT, improving a low carbon economy. • Attract and coordinate assessment of risks. quality of life. • Supplier of services for participation of external s cu • Management (mitigation): • Foment collaboration energy efficiency. partners. Fo Goals. between Telefônica, • Strengthen relations • Follow-up and control (KPI). public authorities and with interest groups and • Verification. organizations. society as a whole. • Integrity. • Product and service. • Operations: reducing OPEX • Chairs. • Supply chain. accessibility: valuing economic (network consumption -30%). • Digital agendas: • Privacy /Data protection. impact. • Inclusion of product energy Spain • Adult content. • Participation of agents. variable. Latin America c • Health and Safety. • Telecommunications observatory • Reduction in electricity Europe Proje • Diversity. and accessibility. consumption in buildings • Public-Private Alliances. • Electromagnetic emissions. • Telefônica Accessible Standard. ts (10% employees). • Responsible Advertising. • Clients: ICT solutions that drive • Corporate Reporting. energy efficiency: increasing • Environmental Management. economic value of impact. ur Business Principles Committee Accessible Telefônica Climate change office Discussion tables e ruct St Dow Jones Sustainability Index s ic et r Rep Trak™ M n Sustainable mindset s Sustainable technology l Sustainable connection *PdA is the Telefônica Code of Ethics Telefônica Brasil | Annual Sustainability Report 8 Economic impact Economic impact Economic impact Despite the slowdown in economic activity in Brazil in 2011, Telefônica | Vivo continued to drive progress in society, accelerated substantially by the integration of the fixed and mobile operations Driving progress T he breakdown of Telefônica | Vivo’s financial flows in 2011 provides a more detailed view of how the company’s revenues are redistributed throughout Brazilian society, covering suppliers, government, employees, credit institutions and shareholders, as well as its role as a driver of the country’s social and economic progress. Social cash flow Financial creditors 0.2% 110 Others 5.8% 2,700 Employees Fixed assets 4.0% 1.6% 1,845 758 Public authorities 32.9% 15,243 46,273 Financial investment -0.5% Clients -237 92.3% 42,703 Inflow Outflow Suppliers 51.9% 23,994 Commercial: 18,980 Capex: 5,014 Financial creditors 0 Shareholders 11.7% 5,428 * All the amounts are in millions of reais. ** Important note: the information published on this page is from internal Telefônica Brazil sources and was verified against the report checker. The data provided may be affected by later events and effects which could modify the content. Telefônica Brasil | Annual Sustainability Report 10 Economic impact Reputational Risk The Telefônica Group’s Corporate Risk Management Policies and Procedures are based on a series of concrete principles and set forth best practices and recommendations for Corporate Governance aimed at driving continuous improvement in business performance. These policies and procedures ensure alignment with the Managing impacts model in all the Group companies worldwide. They also establish all risk-related information and approval flows. Fully aware of the impact it may have on its stakeholders, Telefônica established ethical principles of conduct as a means of There are four categories of risk: Business, Financial, ensuring honesty, integrity and trust, as well as respect for the Operational and Global. law and human rights in all its activities. These Business Principles were approved in 2006 and serve as an official code of conduct for Reputational risks and those associated with all the Group’s operations worldwide. non-compliance with the Business Principles fall under the latter category and the corporate risk The principles govern our activities and relationships, generating management model, constituting situations capable greater trust among our audiences and optimizing long-term of affecting the brand’s reputation and are transversal value for shareholders and society as a whole. We encourage all to the operation. employees to familiarize themselves with these rules and obey them, and we invest in like-minded partners and suppliers. After the integration of Telefônica and Vivo, the conduct codes of the two companies were submitted to an assessment, with a view to establishing common minimum standards applicable to the new company. The result of this work will be submitted to the Business All company employees have access to the standards governing Principles Committee, comprising the Corporate Institutional decision making, purchase and contracting processes. Additionally, Relations and Business Development, Human Resources, Legal they have access to confidential channels through which they and Audit areas, resulting in the production of a new document may make anonymous reports, ask questions and seek advice on by September 2012. The Committee’s role is to make decisions questions related to the business principles. related to compliance with the Business Principles and to mitigate previously mapped risks that have a direct impact on the In 2011, our global channels received a total of 91 anonymous or company’s strategy and reputation. personal reports. Telefônica Brasil | Annual Sustainability Report 11 Economic impact Privacy and data protection the “Protection of Telephone and Telematics Communications and Subscriber Personal Data” procedure. In 2011, audits were For Telefônica | Vivo, responsible management of client conducted in the areas involved to ensure compliance with this information, including privacy and data protection, document. is fundamental for the sustainability of its business. Consequently, we work continuously to ensure such information In addition to these procedures, the company’s Risk and is maintained in a secure, controlled environment. Security is Information Security area carries out periodic information security guaranteed by means of specific software, such as Resource awareness campaigns addressing password protection, mobile Access Control Facility (RACF), and formal processes that ensure devices, phishing and exposure of information in digital media. data may only be accessed by authorized employees. This is reinforced by the company’s Internet Access Security We have a series of protective barriers to ensure the inviolability Policy, which establishes best practices and safety standards of our client data. These include Intrusion Prevention System for use of the internet in the corporate environment. Non(IPS), Intrusion Detection System (IDS), Firewall, Antivirus compliance with standards related to the circulation of and Anti-Spam software, controlled internet access via Proxy inappropriate content, including pedophilia, pornography, and technology with user authentication, standardized work prejudice based on race, sexual orientation or religion is dealt stations and employee authentication through the use of access with administratively. accounts (users and passwords). Periodic vulnerability tests are performed on this security infrastructure. All company Information Security standards and policies are available to any employee on the Intranet. Telefônica | Vivo executives are required to sign of a Term of Responsibility and Confidentiality on an annual basis. This Together with other telecommunications service providers, ensures that all our employees are aware and compliant with Telefônica | Vivo signed a commitment to release information on people under investigation for crimes against children and adolescents upon judicial request. This is the result of an agreement made in September, 2009 between the Brazilian Federal Senate Investigative Commission into Pedophilia, the Other information security-related procedures National Public Prosecutors’ Council, the Rio de Janeiro state worthy of note are: Public Prosecution department, the Federal Police, the Internet Management Committee and Safernet Brasil. Online security The Corporate Information and Technology Security Policy and Standard affecting We offer our clients an online security package, Vivo employees; Segurança Online, to enable more secure internet navigation and greater confidentiality for personal information, such as passwords, files and photos. This also enables users to control access to determined content and the time children and adolescents spend online. There are five packages for The Information and Technology Security computers and two for smartphones and tablets. Awareness Program for company employees and third-parties; Managing client relations After the various stages of the Telefônica / Vivo integration process, company results for the year were robust, illustrated by the increase in the client base. Telefônica had a total of 86.9 million users at the end of 2011, 71.6 million in its mobile service, and 15.3 The Data Loss Prevention Project; million in the fixed telephony, broadband and cable TV services. Particularly worthy of note was the mobile client base, which grew by 18.7% in the year with a net increase of 11.3 million users, of which 4.5 million in the fourth quarter. The number of fixed broadband users passed the 3.6 million mark, a 9.5% increase Identity Management and Intrusion compared with December 2010. Prevention Improvements. Telefônica Brasil | Annual Sustainability Report 12 Economic impact Client service Fixed broadband client base – Speedy (in thousands) In the mobile segment we generated more sales opportunities via contacts through the company’s customer service 3,631 channels: call center, SMS, chat, email and internet. During the 3,237 year, sales via these channels totaled 6.5 million, compared with 2.6 million in 2010, further reinforcing their importance in 2,555 2,636 the revenue mix. 2,068 In addition to the electronic channels consolidated in previous years, such as MeuVivo (www.vivo.com.br/meuvivo) and 1,607 Fale Conosco (email), in 2011 the company extended its 1,250 SMS service throughout the country, increasing from 500 825 thousand contacts in 2010 to approximately 4 million in 2011. 484 Satisfaction surveys indicate excellent acceptance of this 333 relationship channel. 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Telefônica | Vivo maintains profiles on the social networks. One of these is Vivo em Rede on Twitter. It disseminates mobility related contents to clients. The service is run by a call center team prepared by social network professionals to clarify consumer doubts at entry level (officially, this is not classified as service provision because a call is not opened and the client’s history is not accessed). Another profile geared to client interaction and dealing with complaints and problems concerning company products and services is Telefônica Ajuda (read more in the chapter Stakeholder Engagement). Quality and innovation Telefônica | Vivo has an ongoing commitment to assure Another novelty accompanied the operational start up of the quality of the services it provides for its clients and to the 1.800 Mhz frequency: the launch of the open Vivo chip, forge closer relations with them. In this sense, we started to which can be used in any unlocked cell phone. This is the deploy fixed services in other states, backed by the robust only product of its kind in the country. experience acquired in serving the demanding São Paulo market. These include Vivo Fixo (fixed services based on The consolidation of a more robust network enabled us mobile network infrastructure) and Vivo Box (with fixed to deliver what clients expect with quality. We increased telephone, internet and Wi-Fi in a single device). Currently migration from TDM to NGN by 26% and worked on available in the Porto Alegre, Rio de Janeiro, Belo Horizonte adapting datacenter infrastructure. and Vitória metropolitan regions, these solutions will be extended to other locations in 2012. The launch of fixed services via FWT mobile technology (Vivo Fixo and Vivo Box) enabled us to exploit the fixed One way of innovating is to incorporate new products and telephony segment in regions outside of São Paulo as a services into our portfolio, such as Vivo Direto. Launched result of the fixed mobile integration. in August 2011, it enables clients to call anywhere in the country at the touch of a button using Push to Talk (PTT) We pulled even further ahead of the competition with technology, a practical, cost-effective way of staying in aggressive growth in 3G coverage, an area in which the touch with customers, family and friends nationwide. We company is outright leader (more information in the chapter also innovated with the launch of HSPA+ (or 3GPlus, as on Digital Inclusion). it is known commercially) in the São Paulo metropolitan region (DDD 11). This product ensures even higher data Broadband access via the fixed network also expanded. The transmission rates for clients with compatible terminals, company’s portfolio of ADSL broadband products has an initial reaching up to three times the conventional 3G rate. speed of 250 kbps and a maximum speed of up to 8 Mbps. Telefônica Brasil | Annual Sustainability Report 13 Economic impact Complaints to Procon-São Paulo and to Anatel per month 2010-2011* Indicators Jan/10 Feb/10 Mar/10 Apr/10 May/10 Jun/10 Jul/10 Aug/10 Sep/10 Oct/10 Nov/10 Dec/10 Complaints to Anatel 22.9 23.7 23.7 19.9 19.3 19 18.3 18.0 19.2 20.1 18.2 22.3 (in thousands) Complaints to Procon 6.3 5.7 6.8 5.6 5.7 5.0 5.2 5.6 4.8 4.6 4.8 4.5 (in thousands) Indicators Jan/11 Feb/11 Mar/11 Apr/11 May/11 Jun/11 Jul/11 Aug/11 Sep/11 Oct/11 Nov/11 Dec/11 Complaints to Anatel 27.6 29.8 24.3 20.5 22.3 18.6 1.4 16.6 14.6 16.4 17.5 18.3 (in thousands) Complaints to Procon 5.1 5.4 5.9 5.0 5.6 4.9 4.7 5.3 4.0 4.1 4.4 4.5 (in thousands) *Data refer to Telefônica | Vivo fixed operation. The quality of the company’s services is reflected in external Ombudsman indicators such as the National Telecommunications Agency To deal with complaints from clients who are dissatisfied after Anatel’s Service Performance Index (IDA), which classified our attendance via the conventional channels, Telefônica | Vivo has mobile operation as the best in 32 out of 33 months. Our fixed an Ombudsman service. In 2011, the sector handled 192,607 operations also surpassed those of the other large service processes involving products and services, 91% of which were providers. Telefônica / Vivo had the lowest number of complaints resolved within at most five working days, a five percentage point registered with the Procon consumer defense organizations and improvement over 2010. other institutions. In conjunction with differentiated products, services and plans, quality is fundamental for attracting clients, To achieve this number, the Ombudsman area worked closely with generating loyalty and reinforcing trust. other company areas to prevent problems, point out deviations, make recommendations and drive improvements in procedures The volume of complaints to Anatel decreased on average 22% with a view to safeguarding client satisfaction. compared with 2010. Client satisfaction with service in Telefônica’s 131 stores in São Paulo reached the highest level in the historical The Ombudsman area uses a PPM (“parts per million”) series, and the volume of complaints to the São Paulo Procon is measurement methodology which takes into account the service showing a marked decrease. area concerned and the number of working days. In 2011, there were 53 complaints ppm (a daily average of 53 complaints for each million clients). Challenges in the mobile network In August 2011, an energy failure in internal Telefônica | Vivo Duplication of voice capacity with the new 1.800 MHz equipment left 2.1 million clients without telephone and frequency; mobile internet services for a period of three hours in the 250% expansion in the Manaus-Belém radio route; state of Amazonas, where the company is the market leader Activation of a new fiber optic route, enabling redundancy with a share of around 60%. This incident caused wide media in the previous route; repercussion. As a consequence, the company had a negative Expansion of satellite transmission capacity; net gain in its postpaid client base in the region, that is, New antennas with a lower visual and environmental impact; migration to other operators was higher than the entry of new Implantation of a new switching center; clients by the end of the year. Coverage of all municipal districts in the state of Amazonas by December 2012. In a public hearing held in October of that year, the company agreed to increase its investments in the region and guarantee In 2011, Telefônica | Vivo compensated all its clients in the better telecommunications services through a number of state with a 35-minute bonus (private postpaid subscribers), measures, which are currently underway: 100-minute bonus (corporate postpaid subscribers), credit with a discount proportional to 24 hours of service (postpaid control plan) and extension of validity of existing credit for one day (prepaid). Telefônica Brasil | Annual Sustainability Report 14 Economic impact Innovation There were 510 enrollments for the first edition of the event in Brazil. The ten winning projects were announced in November, As a telecommunications company, we are at the center of and the teams started operating out of the same location at the the digital revolution, a phenomenon which introduces new beginning of 2012. communication, information and relationship models and drives advances in diverse spheres of society, such as education, This not only a way for the center to integrate with the developer health, government and commerce. This position enables us community, but also to drive its growth and evolution. to take advantage of opportunities that have arisen in this new environment. In 2011, we continued with the technological Campus Party Brasil transformation process at Telefônica | Vivo putting countless new initiatives into practice. In January 2011, we organized the fourth Brazilian edition of the biggest innovation, creativity, digital entertainment We included Telefônica Digital in our global business structure. and technology event in the world, the Campus Party. Aimed at capturing growth opportunities in the digital world, Around 6,800 people got together at São Paulo’s Imigrantes this accelerates innovation, expands and reinforces our product exhibition centre to participate in some 400 activities with and service portfolio and optimizes advantages for our corporate over 500 hours of content. These included talks by renowned customers. figures in the field of technology, as well as opportunities for the participants to exchange experiences and demonstrate The company’s innovation area was leveraged with the creation their inventions. In line with one of the Campus Party Brazil of the Innovation Center. Based on solutions provided by the missions – fomenting innovation and technological progress–, Product Development and Innovation (PDI) group and aligned with a number of novelties were exhibited during the course of the Telefônica | Vivo goals, the area started to develop technology week, providing visitors with a look at what we may expect to guarantee competitive, differentiated solutions tailored from technology in the future. to the Brazilian market. The Center uses the most advanced methodologies available: Customer Driven Innovation, User To fuel this vibrant exchange of information, Telefônica | Vivo Experience, Agile/Scrum and Quality Assurance. provided the event with broadband via optic fiber at a speed of 10 gigabytes. We also strengthened our commitment to technological entrepreneurship through Wayra, an initiative implemented in Another important innovation announced at Campus Party Brazil Brazil in 2011 to help talented entrepreneurs accelerate their was the adoption of IPv6 (new generation of internet protocol). ICT related ideas. The program is in place in seven countries in One of its main features is built-in security; internet access is Latin America*. Every six months, ten companies are selected quicker using this platform because the user does not have to for the acceleration process, receiving mentoring and funding. spend valuable time on encryption. * Mexico, Colombia, Peru, Argentina, Chile, Venezuela and Uruguay. 2011 Wayra Week Award Telefônica Brasil | Annual Sustainability Report 15 Economic impact Responsibility in the supply chain Our reference framework is the public At Telefônica | Vivo we are aware of the impact caused by our commitment assumed in 2010 which functions on two levels: supply chain. The volume of purchases in 2011 reached 17.8 billion reais, 11.9% higher than the previous year. This purchase volume was contracted from 3,990 suppliers, many of whom also played a key role in services and support, working directly External – Through the Responsibility in the with our clients. These figures were boosted by the fixed-mobile Supply Chain policy, which sets forth the mindset integration, which led to a significant increase in the number of and criteria we expect from our suppliers. This policy suppliers and contractors. also serves as a tool for sensitizing our suppliers so that they will foment sustainable behavior in their In this context, we continue to promote sustainability criteria own supply chains. based on our Business Principles, multiplying the positive impacts of our activity. This goes beyond mere compliance with the principles, reflecting the company’s desire to drive Internal – Through internal standards such as the Standard improved living and working conditions for everyone involved for Extending the Business Principles to the Supply Chain, in the value chain. Procurement Instructions, Corporate Control Standards and Environmental Management Requirements for Suppliers, Objective which establish processes, indicators and tools for monitoring our partners’ degree of compliance. Manage the basic pillars of sustainability in the supply chain based on the Group’s procurement management model, legal compliance and transparency. These pillars enable us to minimize our negative impact while fomenting efficiency and Model of governance and transparency innovation: Telefônica | Vivo is concerned about offering all suppliers equality of opportunity and complies with the laws and regulations in force in the country. For this reason, we developed a procurement model based on: competition and equality of opportunity; transparency in decision making; objectivity and consensus in judgments; services oriented to internal and external clients; mutual fulfillment of commitments with suppliers. This procurement model entails the following mechanisms: Sustainability in the supply chain Purchase desks – These are used to present purchases with the participation of all the areas involved. All decisions are unanimous. There are currently two purchase desks, one in São Paulo and the other in Rio de Janeiro. Risk Promoting Sustainability Sustainable Management efficiency culture products E-commerce tools – All transactions are inserted in the system and the supplier is responsible for including its proposal. In 2011, 82.7% of all the company’s negotiations were undertaken electronically. Legal Compliance Standards and procedures – These may be general or specific. Governance Model Management and Supplier listing – Common to all Group companies. Transparency At Telefônica | Vivo we are committed to the economic and social development of Brazil, which is evident in the high volume of purchases from suppliers installed in the country. In 2011, 92.8% of the company’s purchase volume came from local suppliers who generate jobs and pay taxes in the country. Telefônica Brasil | Annual Sustainability Report 16 Economic impact Risk Management in the Value Chain We periodically carry out risk assessments with our suppliers and define strategies in accordance with the risks identified. Assessment Map of high Definition of Monitoring and analysis of risk suppliers improvements and reporting key aspects All registered suppliers identified as high risk in terms of socioenvironmental criteria because of the nature of their business, such as suppliers of telecommunication equipment, network installation and maintenance services, as well as merchandising and telemarketing services, are submitted to a socioenvironmental assessment. This is based on an online self-assessment questionnaire in the Supplier Portal consisting of around 50 questions drawn from the UNO’s Declaration of Human Rights, the International Labor Organization (ILO) Conventions and environmental legislation. Fundamental requirements include: No child or forced labor; No risks or inhumane treatment in the workplace; Compliance with environmental legislation. In 2011, we progressed in auditing partner companies classified as high risk. Four network contractors and call centers were submitted to verification, which was carried out by PricewaterhouseCoopers. Allies Program At Telefônica | Vivo, we understand that our suppliers are strategic partners for the development of our business. This is why we run the Allies Program, designed to further strengthen relations with these partners through measures such as training programs, recruitment guidelines for contractors and the regular verification of working conditions and social security and labor documentation (by sampling). In 2011, a total of 1,233 checks were carried out. Under the Estela project, which the company implanted in several Latin American countries in 2005, our installation and repair technicians participate in online training which incorporates a system designed to hone their customer service skills and monitor their performance. To date, 2,543 technicians have been certified in Brazil. An additional 1,310 technicians received a total of 2,512 hours of classroom training. These initiatives drive recognition of the strength of our strategic alliance model with partners, enabling us to provide our clients with excellent service. Telefônica Brasil | Annual Sustainability Report 17 Environmental impact Environmental impact Environmental impact Telefônica | Vivo’s environmental strategy is based on managing the risks and opportunities generated by ICT in terms of energy efficiency, reduction of greenhouse gas emissions and optimization of the resources and materials used in its operations Environmental management management and control over the use of resources need to be reconciled with increased operational efficiency. A t Telefônica | Vivo, we strive to contribute to people’s wellbeing through Information and Communication Technologies (ICT). For this reason, we recognize the importance of the efficient Last year we focused on minimizing the environmental impact of our activities, promoting best management practices and management of scarce resources such as energy or water to the adoption of environmental criteria in the implantation ensure the sustainable development of production activities in the of our network. We also encouraged employees to adopt country. We manage environmental risks based on the principles environmentally sound practices in the workplace and in their of eco-efficiency in our operations and, above all, compliance with private lives. environmental legislation. Eco-efficiency at Telefônica | Vivo We have a clear environmental policy whereby environmental care is not just a commitment, but rather an integral part of We understand eco-efficiency to be the proper management of our business targets. As such it constitutes a challenge in environmental factors such as water, energy, waste and greenhouse internal management because legal compliance, environmental gases (GHG) in our operations. Environmental policy 1) Guarantee compliance with all environmental 5) Inform the supply chain and service legislation and voluntary commitments assumed providers of the environmental procedures Our environmental policy is by Telefônica in the countries in which it operates; and requirements applicable to their activities underpinned by 10 points and, in accordance with the precautionary with the Telefônica Group and ensure they are which are observed by all principle, adopt more restrictive internal followed. the Group’s operations and standards and guidelines where environmental employees: legislation is lacking. 6) Establish the processes necessary to ensure Group employees are aware and informed of 2) Implant environmental management systems environmental questions. that prevent or reduce any negative environmental impacts caused by the company’s activities and 7) Make the organization’s environmental infrastructure, identifying and disseminating best behavior public on an annual basis, including practices throughout the Group. the most relevant indicators and the targets achieved. 3) Pursue continuous improvement in the entire organization based on the systematic and 8) Help combat climate change by the internal periodic assessment of environmental behavior, reduction of greenhouse gas emissions and the the application of a specific index and the development of products and services that help establishment of targets. other sectors to reduce their emissions. 4) Use natural resources in a sustainable manner, 9) Promote the creation of telecommunication promoting the purchase of environmentally services that contribute to the sustainable friendly products; minimizing the consumption of development of society. raw materials and the generation of waste; and fomenting recycling, the recovery of materials 10) Work with other organizations to seek more and the proper disposal of waste. sustainable forms of development. Telefônica Brasil | Annual Sustainability Report 19 Environmental impact The main environmental effects associated with our activities Selective collection in Telefônica | Vivo buildings are concentrated in the implantation of our network. We need A major step towards more sustainable management was to administer the generation of waste in our operation, energy taken in 2011 with the implantation of a Selective Garbage consumption (electricity and fuel) and the visual impact of our Collection program at Telefônica | Vivo administrative buildings. installations on their surroundings. The high geographical dispersion A dedicated hotsite was set up on the company intranet to of the operation means that our environmental management must drive employee and third-party engagement and awareness of be based on homogenous processes. the importance of sorting and recycling waste in the work place and at home. For this reason, all Telefônica Group companies worldwide follow the guidelines set forth in ISO14001. We use this system to improve The initiative is aimed at reducing our environmental impact our environmental performance aligned with best practices in all the by ensuring the proper disposal of the waste generated in countries in which we operate, adopting eco-efficiency criteria in the our administrative buildings and monitoring opportunities to implantation of our entire network. reduce consumption. The measure has a corollary social effect by strengthening diverse recycling cooperatives throughout the We also generate waste, consume energy and water and emit country. greenhouse gases in our client service network, encompassing offices, stores and call centers. In this case we develop waste management programs and take back programs for equipment, such as telephones, accessories and batteries. Waste management Telefônica | Vivo is concerned about the responsible management of the waste generated in its operations, in particular materials containing hazardous compounds, such as batteries and fluorescent lamps. In these cases we have specific contracts to ensure proper disposal by our service providers. With respect to telephone cables, waste is reused when sold as scrap. Residues produced – Telefônica | Vivo 2011 2010 2011 Cables (kg) 4,456,211 5,109,152 Batteries (kg) 802,552 389,920 Recycle Your Cellular Phone Program In 2006, we launched our pioneering Recycle your Cellular Phone program, designed to promote recycling and reverse logistics for cellular telephones, accessories and batteries, with urns installed in Vivo’s own stores, authorized dealers and resellers. After a pilot in Brasilia, Rio de Janeiro and São Paulo, the program now covers the entire country, with more than 3,500 pick-up points. By the end of the year, the program had recycled 2,471,842 items and 925,612 mobile phones. Recycle Your Cell Phone Program History 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Total Items (units) 242,255 1,232,818 535,269 135,699 325,801 2,471,842 Handsets (units) 131,126 588,842 112,429 39,970 53,245 925,612 Telefônica Brasil | Annual Sustainability Report 20 Environmental impact Consumption of resources and materials Responsible network development Our environmental commitment is put into practice through Fuel tanks – Telefônica | Vivo has 489 buildings with fuel tanks operational efficiency improvement measures designed to reduce for generators. Since 2004 a project has been underway to our environmental impact by controlling the resources and replace and modernize these tanks. Ninety-eight installations materials used throughout our production chain. were modernized in 2011, 10 with underground tanks and 88 with conventional tanks. The total expenditure was R$ By way of example, in August 2010 Telefônica | Vivo implanted 10,088,000.00. a digital certification project. This initiative involves the substitution of the manual issue, processing and signature of Acoustic control – In line with the objective of improving documents related to network construction and installation and acoustic treatment in telephone exchanges, Telefônica | Vivo repair processes with digitally signed electronic files. modified three units in 2011. The amount invested totaled R$ 73,114.28. In addition to the environmental gain, the project streamlines processes, ensuring greater security and reduced fraud. Visual impact of towers – Investing in innovative projects is another way we have found of minimizing the environmental impacts of our operation. With the objective of diminishing the visual impact caused by our antennas on the landscape and optimizing the use of natural resources, Paper and water consumption in 2011 – Telefônica | Vivo we developed posts that integrate lighting and telephony, 2010 2011 the Sencillos. They are smaller than conventional towers Paper (kg) 1,675,472* 2,889,879 and blend more easily into urban landscapes. The company installed 152 of these posts in 2011 and is planning to Water (liters) 1,062,162,000 1,235,051,436 install a further 400 throughout 2012. The low cost of this *The 2010 figure for paper consumption did not include the mobile operation. type of infrastructure is another plus for the business. Telefônica Brasil | Annual Sustainability Report 21 Environmental impact Sustainable buildings A major environmental advance for Telefônica | Vivo was the construction of its new Data Processing Center in the district of Tamboré, in Santana de Parnaíba, Greater São Paulo. This modern building, with a 4,600 m² Data Hall projected to meet business growth up until 2019, was designed to high quality and efficiency standards, based on principles of sustainability. It has been awarded internationally recognized Uptime Institute TIER III certification on two levels: Design and Constructed Facility. These certifications respectively attest that the conceptual and execution projects are in compliance with the strictest availability and security standards and that the original designs were adhered to during construction. The undertaking will be one of the largest of its kind in South America, and the first designed in full compliance with LEED (Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design) guidelines, the leading environmental construction certification system worldwide attesting to application of Civil Construction Waste Environmental Management principles. We intend to request this certification upon completion of the works. The new data center differentials include: 100% reuse of rain water, which is harvested to irrigate the landscape and green areas; On-site treatment of wastewater in three sewage treatment plants, reusing this effluent for irrigation and toilet flushes; A 40% reduction in water consumption in toilets though watersaving devices such as dual-flow flushing mechanisms and taps with flow controllers; 28% reduction in electricity consumption compared with conventional buildings. Other sustainable attributes are: Pollutant emissions – In 2011, we continued with the installation of catalytic converters for new generators to 75% of the waste from the construction used or recycled by reduce pollution from burning fuel. A total of 12 catalytic certified operators; converters were installed in 7 stations during the year. According to the manufacturer, the catalytic converters Use of FSC certified wood; should reduce carbon monoxide emissions by up to 97%, hydrocarbons by 68%, nitrogen oxide by 72% and aldehydes Use of paints, adhesives and sealants with low volatile by 62%. An additional advantage is a reduction in noise levels organic compound (VOC) content, increasing safety for the by up to 22 decibels. construction workers and the future occupants of the building; Electromagnetic emissions – Concerned about the effect Use of materials with recycled content; of electromagnetic emissions on persons living close to its antennas, Telefônica | Vivo measures the levels of the Prohibition of use of chlorofluorocarbons (CFCs) in the electric, magnetic and radiofrequency electromagnetic fields building’s refrigeration systems; around all its radio communication transmission stations, in accordance with law nº 11.934, dated May 5th, 2009, Guaranteed access to public transportation; producing radiometric reports at a maximum interval of five years. This work was carried out on a total of 1,009 antennas Onsite bicycle shed for 25 bicycles and shower facilities for nationwide in 2011. men and women. Telefônica Brasil | Annual Sustainability Report 22 Environmental impact Sustainability in new Vivo stores Initiated in 2010, the remodeling of the Vivo stores continued in 2011 with the objective of offering clients an improved Electromagnetic fields purchase experience in terms of innovation, quality, comfort, accessibility and sustainability. The latter aspect received Telefônica | Vivo is aware of society’s interest in special attention with the use of materials that are less electromagnetic emissions and seeks to be transparent in its aggressive to the environment: synthetic floors made from 67% communications related to this subject. recycled materials, furniture made from certified wood, display units made of recycled plastic, lighting using LED lamps, which Whenever requested, the company provides information to consume less and last longer, and digital communication to communities, government, clients or anyone else interested reduce the need for printing, thus saving paper and ink, among in knowing how radio base stations and mobile telephony other items. antennas work. It also helps to disseminate existing knowledge in this area. In 2011, we implanted three different types of store in line with these requirements: one Concept Store, four 4G Stores All infrastructure is installed in strict compliance with national – With Technology and one 4G Store – Without Technology. legal requirements related to electromagnetic emissions. Currently the company has 13 stores built in accordance with To guarantee compliance, share best practices among sustainability criteria. Group companies and ensure coordinated action around this question, in 2011 we worked globally to define a policy Green ICT which establishes minimum requirements for all Telefônica operations worldwide. These are: At Telefônica | Vivo, we understand green technologies or Green ICT to be an additional set of processes and activities that enable Strict compliance with recognized international and local us to generate value for the company through reduced costs and standards, legislation and guidelines for all products and the generation of new revenue streams. Green ICT is based on services; principles of eco-efficiency, internal carbon management and reduced energy consumption, as well as the provision of green Promotion of legislation based on international guidelines services for clients, driving environmental sustainability and a low (especially where there is no local regulation) that drives carbon economy. homogenization and eliminates barriers to the growth of infrastructure; We are aware of the potential Information and Communications Technology (ICT) has to promote an ecoSupport for and dissemination of high quality independent efficient economy. For this reason, we believe it is necessary scientific research into mobile communication recognized to optimize the advantages offered by energy management by the World Health Organization; and climate change. The Climate Change and Energy Efficiency Office continues to lead the Group’s corporate energy and Open, transparent communication with our clients and the carbon strategy based on five action fronts: operations, general public. suppliers, employees, clients and society. In 2011, we reinforced our three convergent targets. The first is focused on promoting internal energy efficiency and reducing our carbon dioxide equivalent (CO2eq) emissions, optimizing the use of available resources. The second seeks to develop competitive green solutions to improve our clients’ eco-efficiency, based on the strategy of providing global services in the digital world. The third is As such, the first step towards managing the risks identified is structured to position Telefônica | Vivo as a market leader in green the comprehensive measurement of our energy consumption and technologies. the quantification of our internal carbon footprint and that of our services. These measurements have enabled us to take the right Positioning decisions and plan for our 2015 target of reducing overall energy consumption by 30% in our telecommunications networks We believe that the best way to achieve market leadership (measured in kilowatt-hour per equivalent terminal) and by 10% is by transparent management that inspires trust. This in our offices (in kWh per employee), against a base date of 2007. transparency may be reached through effective management of the risks and opportunities climate change represents Innovation for sustainability for Telefônica | Vivo, within the company’s overall risk management policy. These include regulatory, business, We benefit our clients to the extent that our energy efficiency operational and reputational risks that could affect our results and green technology services enable them to reduce costs and if not managed properly. increase their competitiveness, in addition to driving greater quality of life for society as a whole. For this reason, we have increasingly sought to embed sustainability in our services for Telefônica Brasil | Annual Sustainability Report 23 Environmental impact buildings and for the transportation and electricity sectors, The same month we organized the Appies Hackathon in São among others. Paulo. This was an event in which software developers had the opportunity to share information, meet people and develop The company’s overall innovation strategy is aimed at realizing applications in a short timeframe. The objective of the event, which the potential offered by the digital world. To this end, we have was supported by other technology companies, was to strengthen been identifying new green products and services and investing in Telefônica | Vivo’s relations with this audience and present Green innovation processes that drive energy efficiency, particularly in Apps as an opportunity for developers to improve quality of life for M2M (machine to machine) based services. big city dwellers. One successful solution was the pioneering implantation of High The initiative resulted in the creation of diverse environmental Speed Packet Access (HSPA) technology in public transportation applications, one of which, “Plant it here”, is especially deserving in Curitiba, in the south of the country. The initiative, undertaken of mention. The solution, developed by two computing science in partnership with Ericsson, provided the city’s buses with 3G professionals, acts as a collaborative network in which users use broadband connection, delivering a series of benefits for people the GPS on their smartphones to check in and tell people where and for the environment. they may plant a tree. This information is then retransmitted to a map, which will show anyone who is interested where they may The system is completely electronic and is integrated with plant trees. information centers, enabling users to recharge their tickets at any bus station, ensuring greater security and privacy. The public now Energy efficiency has access to information on education, health and other public services inside the buses, in addition to real time information on We continue to work jointly with the operations, procurement how long they will take to reach their destination. All the buses and human resources areas to drive energy efficiency and reduce in the system are monitored by georeferencing, enabling the GHG emissions in our processes. This structure enables more drivers to take shorter routes, thus reducing carbon emissions and agile implementation of initiatives and a natural grouping of increasing convenience for users. institutional, operational and business strategies. The solution has received broad global recognition. In As in recent years, we quantified our energy consumption and November 2011, it was presented at the United Nations our GHG emissions based on the global Greenhouse Gas Protocol Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC) in and the ISO 14064 environmental standard. This methodology Durban, South Africa. The convention intends to include projects enables us to identify the GHG emissions controlled directly by such as this in the climate agenda. the company, known as Scope 1; those derived from company Telefônica Brasil | Annual Sustainability Report 24 Environmental impact activities but generated by other organizations (electrical energy), savings opportunities, such as equipment that can be turned off or Scope 2; and indirect emissions associated with business travel without jeopardizing service quality. and outsourced logistics activities, Scope 3. The solutions proposed are analyzed by a group of Telefônica | Using this methodology, in 2011 Telefônica | Vivo had total Vivo engineers and, if approved, are put into practice. When real emissions of 61,909.80 tons of CO2eq (carbon gas equivalent), an energy economy is demonstrated, the company shares part of improvement of almost 40% compared with the previous year. this gain with the contractor. In turn, the contractor pays the This was made possible by a significant reduction in employee air employee responsible half of this amount. Payment is made travel for business, which offset increased emissions from energy every six months. consumption in operations. Since this shared gain program was begun in 2010, 416 energy Operations: energy efficiency and economy saving measures proposed and executed by partners have been We are aware that to achieve excellence in energy and carbon put into practice. They have resulted in savings of 11,788,191 management and in the targets we set, it is fundamental to kWh per year, with a reduction in costs of R$ 2,616,978.49 for have our data assured externally. Consequently, every year we Telefônica | Vivo. commission an independent verification of energy and emissions data based on global energy and carbon dioxide (CO2) inventory We have implemented other measures, such as the use of procedures. It is impossible to measure or improve something if it temperature sensors and external air to reduce power consumption is not measured. Therefore it is important to have a quality GHG in air conditioning equipment (which accounts for 50% of the emissions inventory to measure our progress towards achieving energy consumed in the operations). Other experiments on our our energy consumption reduction targets. At the end of 2011, we sites include the implementation of the hybrid site, which uses had reached more than 25% of this long-term target. energy from mixed sources. A pioneering initiative in the state of São Paulo uses 36 solar panels, two wind turbines, a bank Energy consumption in our operations (used mostly to power of batteries and a generator (a truck engine with an electricity equipment and communication networks) accounts for generator coupled to it). approximately 80% of the company’s CO2 emissions. For this reason, we have worked constantly to reduce this consumption. In The solar panels and the turbines directly supply the power needs 2011, gross consumption reached 1,658,408,518 kWh (fixed and of the Radio Base Station. When there is a lack of sun and/or wind, mobile). It should be noted also that there was a gross reduction in the energy is supplied by the bank of batteries, which can power consumption in the fixed and mobile operations of 33,303,685.54 the station for two days. When the charge in the batteries reaches kWh (from 1,069,316,900.54 kWh in 2010 to 1,036,013,215.00 50%, the control system automatically activates the generator. kWh in 2011) in technical buildings, offices and call centers, a 3% reduction compared with 2010. 10% of the electrical energy used This solution has been used in the North, Northeast and Southeast by the company comes from renewable sources (biomass and of the country on sites in Pará, Piauí and Teresópolis (RJ), in areas small hydroelectric plants). where access to the power grid is difficult. Throughout 2011, we maintained a series of energy efficiency In 2011, the second Global Energy and Climate Change Workshop initiatives. One example is a program that rewards partners who was organized in Peru to share best energy efficiency and economy save energy. Third-party technicians are encouraged to identify practices among Group companies throughout the world. Telefônica | Vivo 2011 CO2 emissions (in metric tons)* Scope 1 (Direct) 7,557.76 Scope 2 (Indirect/electricity) 48,425.53 Scope 3 (Indirect/business travel) 5,926.51 Total 61,909.80 Telefônica | Vivo 2011 Energy consumption (in kWh) Type of consumption Fixed Mobile Total Electricity consumption 729,180,023 929,228,495 1,658,408,518 Renewable energy* 163,709,342 0 163,709,342 Self-generated renewable energy 0 6,950.00 6,950.00 * Biomass and small hydroelectric plants Telefônica Brasil | Annual Sustainability Report 25 Environmental impact Homogenization of criteria and prices in electricity purchase decisions. Energy efficiency criteria in the standardization of network equipment. One of the objectives is to extend these criteria to our clients’ equipment. Our suppliers are natural partners in improving our energy efficiency. As we purchase more efficient equipment, infrastructure and services, our spending and CO2 emissions are reduced. Consequently, we believe that by extending this climate change culture to our suppliers we are helping to create a more sustainable economy. The energy efficiency in purchases project is based on the company’s global responsible purchases program (see the chapter on Responsibility in the Supply Chain) aimed at optimizing relations with particular suppliers on a global level. Employees: an energy efficiency culture In 2007 we established the target of reducing energy consumption per direct employee by 10% by the year 2015 (measured in kilowatt-hour per employee). In order to reach this target, the operational teams, under the leadership of the global energy heads, implement energy efficiency measures and disseminate information on climate change to all our employees. We work with the company’s global and local areas to promote energy efficiency policies in our offices and to reduce business travel. We foment the use of Green ICT remote collaboration tools, such as videoconferencing and telepresence, which offer a realistic simulation of meetings in which participants actually have the impression that they are sitting down together around the same table. In March 2011, we once again supported the NGO World Wide Fund for Nature’s (WWF) “Earth Hour” movement, a symbolic act in which governments, companies and the general public demonstrate their concern about global warming by turning their lights off for 60 minutes. We not only turned off the lights in our main administrative buildings, but also encouraged our clients, employees and partners to participate. To promote the movement internally, we sent a special video to all our employees by email. We also sent out 1.5 million SMS messages to clients in 20 states nationwide and encouraged our employees to disseminate the Our actions in this area led to recognition for four years running in action on their social networks. the Época Green Company Award, organized by Época magazine (Editora Globo) with technical support from the consultancy Clients: ICT as the heart of the solution PricewaterhouseCoopers. The award highlights initiatives from 20 We follow a global Green ICT service strategy centered on the companies that apply GHG reduction policies in different sectors. development of integrated solutions that enable our clients and other sectors of the economy to be more efficient and to reduce Procurement: energy efficiency in the supply chain their GHG emissions, in addition to facilitating mitigation and Energy efficiency has been included among the decision-making adaptation to climate change. criteria for Telefônica | Vivo product and service purchases. Since 2010, energy consumption has been taken into account in the By the very nature of its work as an integrated telecommunications global supplier selection process, using the variable of energy operator (mobile and fixed), Telefônica | Vivo has conquered an consumption in TCO (Total Cost Ownership) analysis. This has enormous space in the Green market. Through our Innovation enabled us to strengthen our activities on three fronts: area, we have sought to include green solutions in our product and service catalogs, enabling energy and environmental resource Incorporation of energy efficiency requirements in the TCO of management for strategic sectors of the economy, such as network products. transportation, buildings, industry and services. Telefônica Brasil | Annual Sustainability Report 26 Social impact Social impact Social impact We believe that connectivity gives people access to a world of possibilities in which they may lead more humane, intelligent and secure lives, develop more, have higher living standards and enjoy themselves more. This belief also guides our investments in our 3G network Employees Telefônica | Vivo Work Climate 2008 – 2011 (%) 2 011 was a year of immense transformation, principally in function of the unification of the fixed and mobile operations. The teams started working together driven by the objective of 2008 74 | 80 2009 78 | 82 2010 81 | 85 2011 86* building the largest integrated carrier in the Southern Hemisphere. *From 2011 the data correspond to the integrated fixed/mobile operation. In this context of change, the focus for human resources was on building a single culture, creating an internal climate favorable for Talent management the coming changes and maintaining a high level of engagement. The need for robust people management integrating the best Aware that our success in the outside world depends primarily on practices of each company was evident from the beginning of our professionals, we are committed to providing them with the the merger. In parallel, the company has sought to cultivate an best possible work place and creating opportunities for personal organizational environment in which employees feel cared for and development in order to attract and retain talent. encouraged to develop their potential as professionals, people and citizens as fully as possible. Employee education and development is driven by the establishment of targets, ongoing performance appraisal and Particularly worthy of note was the work involved in individual development plans based on the opportunities the implanting the Telefônica | Vivo brand internally. The company makes available for each individual. These opportunities challenges of unifying policies, processes, systems and are structured by means of different educational tools and training practices did not stop the company from reaching new heights. that contribute to the implantation of the organizational culture We surpassed our prior record in the company climate survey and the competencies essential for the business, involving all which, even with the uncertainties and changes inherent to all permanent employees and partners. integration processes, reached the extraordinary satisfaction rate of 85.7%. The options range from classroom study (courses, seminars, workshops, conferences, etc.) to e-learning programs, mentoring This positive feedback from our employees signals that the new and coaching and international work experiences. organization is being built based on values and practices that will enable us to achieve an ambition we have nurtured since the In 2011, around R$ 15 million was invested in education, with very beginning: to be the best communications company in the more than 150,000 employee and partner participations in digital world. approximately 400 thousand hours of classroom training. Employees * Women at director level: Total number of employees 38 101,920 105,731 Number of Women 30 69,745 73,122 Variation (%) Total nº of 3.74 employees n 17.3% of total of directors Number of n 24.5% of total of directors 4.84 2010 2011 2010 2011 women 2010 2011 *The data include Atento. Telefônica Brasil | Annual Sustainability Report 28 Social impact The major educational focuses were leadership development, Employees’ base salary is complemented by variable remuneration engagement in client culture, corporate and business specific programs and a broad range of benefits. subjects, technical training and certification in technologies and methodologies. The concept of total remuneration aims to pay a nominal salary at the average of the market segment comprising companies paying In programs aligned with business strategy, corporate the most aggressive remuneration. competencies and organizational values, the company provided subsidies for: 260 employees on specialized and language Our employees’ fixed salary is higher than the minimum salary. programs; 148 employees on undergraduate degree courses; 120 Specifically in Brazil, the ratio of our lowest salary to the minimum employees on international programs and 77 certifications in salary is 1.22. methodologies and technologies. Consolidating the strategy of education aligned with business needs, employees and partners In addition to their fixed salary, employees also receive variable underwent some 7 million hours of distance learning. annual remuneration, linked with the achievement of measurable business objectives that drive value creation. This remuneration Our commitment to our employees is to provide a collaborative also depends on individual performance appraisal. The objectives environment characterized by integration and trust in which people are adjusted annually in line with strategic business targets. In are trained and encouraged to develop autonomy and maximize 2011, 4,228 professionals were promoted and 3,960 received their potential, building a culture which will result in an ever more salary increases. adaptable and innovative organization. Share plans Fair reward and recognition The company offers a program of share-based remuneration for non-administrative employees. This is designed to Telefônica | Vivo has a salary structure and remuneration policy be a long-term incentive for the occupants of important aligned with best market practices. We aim to attract and retain management positions in the company. The participants the best professionals in a very competitive segment. We recognize meeting the necessary requirements are awarded a individual performance based on the achievement of targets and determined number of shares. the delivery of results. Telefônica Brasil | Annual Sustainability Report 29 Social impact The program is split into three cycles, each lasting three years. Digital inclusion Eligible executives, who must remain in the group for at least three years from their inclusion in the program, are entitled to receive We believe in the power our technologies have to transform shares based on their performance against pre-established targets. people’s lives, and we strive to contribute towards building a fairer, more inclusive country by means of our products and services. Social dialog We are working to make broadband accessible to all social classes Telefônica | Vivo is a signatory to a Union Network International in every region of the country, as a tool that enables access to (UNI) code of conduct whereby it is committed to upholding the education and the full exercise of citizenship. To reach this goal, union and labor rights of all its employees. As such, the company we seek to improve and innovate constantly, expanding the incentivizes permanent dialog with unions aimed at establishing a boundaries of the digital world. relationship of trust between the parties involved. Social innovation We conduct negotiations with the telecommunications industry union Sintetel (Sindicato dos Trabalhadores em Coherent with our vision of improving people’s lives through Telecomunicações) and the São Paulo engineering union Information and Communication Technologies (ICT), the value (Sindicato dos Engenheiros do Estado de São Paulo). In addition generated by Telefônica | Vivo’s social impact goes beyond to employee salary adjustments, the unions are involved in mere institutional positioning. Our products, services and discussions of all factors affecting employees’ routines, such as solutions provide a response to determined social needs and working conditions in the company, hour bank policy and profit may in turn generate new business opportunities, driving social share programs. In 2011, we conducted collective bargaining with and technological growth. The common denominator in these the unions representing the category on a national level, including initiatives, irrespective of the audience they are aimed at (the all the states. The result was the unification of all collective work young, the elderly, the disabled, low-income populations, etc.) or agreements and the alignment of benefits in the fixed and mobile the type of project (education, health, finance, etc.), is the concept operations with the definition of a single base date from 2012. of Social Innovation: seeking solutions for society’s problems and This unification was important for the integration of the two challenges. companies and ensured a satisfactory climate during the merger. Access to remote regions In 2011, we reached the unprecedented mark of 2,500 municipal Benefits districts served by 3G technology, more than all the other mobile carriers together. Of this total, 30% are towns with up to 10 The benefits package offered by Telefônica | Vivo is an thousand inhabitants. Counting municipalities with up to 50 important management tool used to attract, retain and thousand inhabitants, the percentage is 78%, evidence of the support professionals. fact that we are connecting the people, businesses and public and private organizations in these places with new horizons of progress We recognize the importance of a balance between our and development. employees’ professional and personal lives. This is why we offer competitive benefits designed to meet their needs, including This situation is the result of the Vivo Internet Brasil Plan, which by their physical and social well-being. The benefits are projected the first half of 2012 will have reached 2,832 municipal districts, to reinforce ties between the professional and the company and covering 85% of the country’s population. Anyone may monitor to complement other benefits provided for in their remuneration the growth in Vivo coverage in the country and see the municipal package and in legislation. The ultimate objective is to ensure a districts which have Vivo 3G coverage via the hotsite www.vivo. human resources management system that creates a favorable com.br/cobertura3g. organization climate in which people are valued and recognized. At the end 2011, the mobile network using WCDMA, GSM/EDGE In 2011, the company invested more than R$ 275 million in and CDMA digital technologies covered 3,702 municipal districts. benefits for its employees. In addition to those provided for This represents 66.5% of all the municipalities and 90.7% of the by law, benefits included health and well-being programs population in the country. such as nursery or child minding allowance; walking and running groups supported by a medical team, nutritionists Transformational connection and physical education instructors; an occupational health Information and communication technologies provide countless program; an individualized dietary re-education program; and benefits. This is especially clear in the case of remote locations, a support program for mothers-to-be. where even access by land is difficult. An excellent example of how connection radically transformed the life of a town is Belterra, a small municipal district with just over R$ 275 million 16 thousand inhabitants located in western Pará on the Tapajós River in the Amazon rainforest. In 2009, we installed the first third in benefits for employees generation antenna in partnership with Ericsson. Its capacity has since been multiplied by three. Telefônica Brasil | Annual Sustainability Report 30 Social impact The arrival of the network improved life for the riverside communities, driving surprising development in the region in terms of education, work and personal relationships. Research conducted by the Federal University of Pará showed that 90% of the inhabitants believe that the arrival of cellular telephony has improved their daily lives, 53% think that it has contributed to the creation of companies and the generation of employment and 74% state that they use the internet to improve their education. And we did not stop there. In 2011, other communities also gained access to our 3G network and voice services. We brought connectivity to the inhabitants of Lagoa do Carro, a municipality in the hinterland of Pernambuco with around 15 thousand inhabitants who received the 1.500a Radio Base Station (RBS), named Governador Miguel Arraes. Hundreds of other cities, such as Catas Altas da Noruega (Minas Gerais), Travesseiro (Rio Grande do Sul) and Nova Rosalândia (Tocantins) also received the new technology. Many of the inauguration ceremonies were attended by political leaders, community representatives and the president of Telefônica in Brazil, Antonio Carlos Valente. These regions also receive support in the form of Fundação Telefônica | Vivo projects in partnership with local governments, schools and the local children’s and adolescents’ rights councils. Economic inclusion Bringing quality connections to the largest number of people possible is a priority mission for Telefônica | Vivo. For this reason, in alignment with the federal government’s digital inclusion policy, on June 30th we signed a term of commitment in line with the provisions of the National Broadband Plan (PNBL in the Portuguese acronym) to offer mass broadband at low prices in 622 municipalities in the state of São Paulo by 2013, with implantation in the first 229 districts by September 28th, 2011. However, we voluntarily brought the program forward and before the scheduled date were offering mobile broadband in more than 2 thousand municipalities in which our mobile 3G network is in place at the price of R$ 29.90. The option of access via fixed network for R$ 29.80 is also available in 229 São Paulo municipal districts and may be combined with a fixed line at a monthly cost of up to R$65 Convergent services reais under a partnership with the federal government. In order to boost bundling of the company’s fixed and mobile broadband services and facilitate people’s lives with connection In December, our mass broadband service had reached one million anywhere, Telefônica | Vivo started offering existing and new clients, with an increase of around 300 thousand users ( +43%) in clients high speed internet products – Speedy, Ajato and optic less than three months. In the first half of 2012, Telefônica | Vivo fiber– and Vivo Internet mobile packages with a 50% discount will have expanded its mass broadband offering to another 71 for a 12 month period, as well as providing them with the municipalities in the state of São Paulo, totaling 300 cities served modem. in this state alone. Our mission of serving the consumer more and better has Inclusion in the Campus Party led to the expansion of fixed services to other states, based The Campus Party promoted digital inclusion through Digital on the solid experience acquired in the demanding São Paulo Baptism, an event that enabled 5 thousand people to come market. This resulted in the launch of Vivo Fixo (fixed services into contact with technology for the first time. Telefônica also based on mobile network infrastructure) and Vivo Box (with incentivized entrepreneurship with a series of contests in which fixed telephone, internet and Wi-Fi in a single device). Already participants were invited to invent and engage in new business available in the Porto Alegre, Rio de Janeiro, Belo Horizonte and ideas for the technology area, generating solutions to meet social Vitória metropolitan regions, these solutions will be extended to demands. other locations throughout 2012. Telefônica Brasil | Annual Sustainability Report 31 Social impact These initiatives are steps towards capturing synergies and We make culture accessible to those with visual impairment developing solutions based on an integrated fixed-mobile through audio description for the events held in the Teatro Vivo vision. in São Paulo. The theater also provides translation in Brazilian sign language for visitors with hearing impairments, as well as An important milestone in 2011 was the opening of the cable permitting wheelchair access. TV market, when we incorporated the TVA subscriber base. In 2011, we reached 699 thousand clients, a 43.7% increase over 2010. Multiplying connections through fixed and mobile Another demonstration of how we are broadening our horizons and bringing connectivity to more and more people is the heavy investment Telefônica | Vivo has been making in its ultra broadband FTTH (Fiber To The Home) network. Fifty thousand clients are already connected to the FTTH network, 4.5 times more than the 11,500 clients at the end of 2010, and more than a million households are prepared for access in the city of São Paulo and in another 15 cities across the state. These clients have a contracted average speed in excess of 20 MB and a significantly lower disconnection rate. Accessibility We recognize the importance of the role we play in the socioeconomic insertion of the disabled and have established guidelines for the development of our Insertion Program based on the principle of equality of opportunity. This involves: Making a clear distinction between corporate social responsibility and philanthropy; Not simply hiring people to comply with legislation but respecting their capacity and potential and offering them a Accessibility to services career that presents the same opportunities and challenges available to those who have no disability. São Paulo state has one of the highest densities of urban public telephones in the world. There are 215,656 units installed, slightly Among the initiatives already in place, we stress the quality of lower than the 2010 number as a result of an agreement between inclusion by sensitizing managers and employees so that they the operators and the telecommunications agency Anatel (Agência may contribute to the inclusion of these professionals and Nacional de Telecomunicações) due to decreased demand. Of prevent discrimination. these, 9,226 are adapted for wheelchair users; 4,003 are adapted for people with hearing and speech impairments, with attendance We have policies to track these initiatives and retain disabled provided by the specialized Siso service. Since 2010, all the public employees by providing them with basic education and telephones have been equipped with sound alerts for the visually vocational courses. They have access to programs to conclude impaired. Among other functions, this device informs the user of secondary education and vocational courses focused on the number of credits on their telephone card. telecommunications, human resources administration and information technology. There is at least one public telephone in all locations with more than 100 inhabitants, and in urban areas throughout the state At the end of 2011, Telefônica | Vivo had 489 employees users need walk no further than 300 meters to find a public with some form of disability. This was below the percentage telephone. established by law but 9.6% higher than the previous year. Telefônica | Vivo provides mobile products and services to In the cultural and sports areas, we also support social make life easier for the hearing impaired and keep them inclusion and inclusion of the disabled. One project is Vivo connected. These include Torpedo Recado, a service which Remando, a rowing program for disabled youth. The intention converts voice mail messages into SMS text messages; Vivo is to form a Telefônica | Vivo team to represent the company Mais Mensagens, a text message package for those with in tournaments in this sport. There were 20 members in the hearing difficulties; as well as a free SMS Customer Care rowing team in 2011. Service, 24 hours a day, 7 days a week , providing a practical, accessible and inclusive service. Telefônica Brasil | Annual Sustainability Report 32 Social impact Social projects Changes in the company were not limited to the business area. In mid-2011, the Fundação Telefônica, the social arm of Telefônica Brazil, initiated the incorporation of the Instituto Vivo, adopting the new name Fundação Telefônica | Vivo. As a result, activities were extended to the entire country (hitherto these were concentrated in the state of São Paulo, Telefônica SP’s area of activity). During 2011, the Fundação Telefônica | Vivo invested some R$ 36 million in social projects, benefiting more than 680 thousand people. Active in Spain and 13 countries in Latin America, the Fundação Telefônica was established in Brazil in March 1999. Since then it has developed hundreds of projects that have benefited thousands of people in the country. Its mission is to contribute towards building the future in the regions in which Telefônica operates, driving social development based on education and the defense of children’s and adolescents’ rights. The work done by the Instituto Vivo, created in 2004, was Emergency response concentrated on investment in educational projects and in generating employment and income opportunities for young Telecommunications services play a fundamental role in people throughout the country, with a focus on inclusion of the emergencies in the health area, in natural catastrophes and disabled and the formation of networks. other disasters, since they enable widespread alerts, the effective coordination of first responders and support for relief After the fusion, the Fundação Telefônica | Vivo undertook an inefforts and related initiatives. depth assessment of the projects organized by both institutions to develop its strategic planning for the coming years. At Telefônica | Vivo we are fully aware of the importance of good network management in preventing, reducing and The decision was taken to prioritize four action fronts: Childhood mitigating the consequences of this type of emergency. and Adolescence (with a focus on combating child labor), Education Consequently, the company has global Business and Learning, Local Development and Volunteer Work. A fifth Continuity Plans in place to enable the normal offer of area, Debate and Knowledge, was also selected to encourage, telecommunications services in emergency situations wherever disseminate and share reflections on relevant issues for society. it operates. All these plans are in accordance with international standards and are tailored to the characteristics and risks After establishing this focus, projects in other areas were either inherent to each region. Their application generally involves subjected to an exit plan or transferred to Telefônica Brazil, the the use of contingency communication platforms to provide case with the Cultural Initiatives program, absorbed by the Cultural operational support and ensure speedy recovery in the event Development area, and measures for the inclusion of the disabled, of systems failure. The fact that we are present in every region transferred to the Sustainability area. of the country permits us to collaborate with other operators should the need arise. The Fundação also defined a new form of operation based on three pillars from 2012 on. The first, entitled “transform”, is focused on These plans were put into practice at the beginning of 2011, developing projects to bring about in-depth transformation of a when a number of cities in Rio de Janeiro’s mountainous social reality in a limited number of locations, which will serve as region were hit by heavy rainfall, causing flooding and severe social innovation laboratories to be replicated in other projects. damage to homes, monuments and historical buildings. Work The second pillar, or “leverage”, aims to expand these experiences on restoring mobile telephony services was initiated rapidly, in partnership with other actors – companies, governments, and Telefônica | Vivo provided Civil Defense authorities with multilateral organizations and NGOs, among others. Finally, 30 mobile handsets with voice and data plans to facilitate the third pillar “mobilize” is designed to engage society, communication in the affected areas. Another significant taking advantage of the fact that the foundation is part of a contribution was the “Social SMS” sent to all our mobile telecommunications operation that embraces social causes. clients requesting donations to the Red Cross, with whom 100 There follows a description of the projects carried out in 2011. company employees worked as volunteers to sort and handle From the beginning of 2012, these will be incorporated into the the materials received. new format and will be executed in accordance with the pillars described above. Telefônica Brasil | Annual Sustainability Report 33 Social impact Childhood and Adolescence organized in São Paulo. It discussed the main challenges and new opportunities for strengthening networks dedicated to protecting In 2011, the Fundação Telefônica | Vivo maintained its activities in children and adolescents, as well as the possibilities enabled by defense of children’s and adolescents’ rights. In accordance with technological innovation. strategic planning, the decision was taken to focus on combating child labor, a cause embraced by the foundation in every country in In September, the seminar The Networked Society and the Child Latin America. and Adolescent was held in Olinda, Pernambuco. Aimed at child and adolescent counselors, the event explored methodologies, tools Through partnerships, the institution assists more than 245 and concepts designed to reinforce the work done by children’s and thousand children and adolescents in Latin America, approximately adolescents’ tutelage councils. 15 thousand of which in Brazil. In 2011, 64% of the children attended by the program were extricated from child labor. The Fundação Telefônica|Vivo will focus on promoting the One significant action was the third edition of a public school teacher eradication of child labor in the regions in which it is most prevalent training program on Brazil’s Children’s and Adolescents’ Statute through support for public policy and will work towards implanting (ECA in the Portuguese acronym). In all, 2,500 educators involved networking tools and technologies. in child labor eradication programs and in assisting teenagers in trouble with the law, such as the Fundação Casa, participated in a course entitled ECA at School. This was organized by the Third Sector Social Entrepreneurship and Administration Center (Ceats in the Portuguese acronym), part of the Fundação Instituto de Administração (FIA). The Portal Pró-Menino (www.promenino.org.br), which receives 200,000 accesses per month, seeks to enforce children’s and adolescents’ right through the provision of information and support for organizations active in this area and through raising public awareness of the issue. The organization organized its 7th Contest related to children’s’ and adolescents’ rights cases in conjunction with ANDI (Agência de Notícias dos Direitos da Infância). A total of 1,167 real cases of social transformation resulting from the application of the Children’s and Adolescents’ Statute were submitted. Prizes worth R$ 125 thousand were awarded to the winners in each category: “The Children’s and Adolescents’ Statute as an instrument for Transformation”, “The Children’s and Adolescents’ Statute at School” and “The Children’s and Adolescents’ Statute behind the Camera”. With a view to promoting children’s and adolescents’ rights and providing an ample protective network for this group, the Fundação organized two seminars in 2011. In May, the seminar Networks and Sustainability in the System for Guaranteeing Children’s and Adolescents’ Rights (SGDCA in the Portuguese acronym) was Protection Action (Ação Proteção) Within the Childhood/Adolescence sphere of action, the Fundação Telefônica | Vivo is developing the Protection Action Project in partnership with the São Paulo State Public Prosecution Department and Childhood Brasil. This initiative is the result of an agreement between Telefônica and the Department, with the participation of Procon/SP, stemming from a failure in the company’s internet service on July 3rd, 2008. The project is aimed at reinforcing networks dedicated to combating violence and the sexual exploitation of children and adolescents in 30 municipal districts in the state of São Paulo. An important part of the project was the execution of a marketing campaign to publicize the issue. In addition to raising public awareness, the project seeks to articulate and prepare the agents involved. Throughout the year, a series of activities was conducted to train, prepare and mobilize the public authorities providing services for children, adolescents and families suffering from or vulnerable to these types of problems. Telefônica Brasil | Annual Sustainability Report 34 Social impact Local Development Education and Learning This new line of action stems from the Instituto Vivo’s experiences in generating a positive social impact in the areas around the company, reinforcing and leveraging community activities aimed at The current line of work in Education and Learning is aimed at resolving local issues. promoting innovation in learning by incorporating information and communication technologies, applying them as educational In 2011, the Fundação decided to develop this line of action, tools and fundamental drivers of digital inclusion. establishing a specific team focused on local development projects. This is based on the belief that this type of social action within Since 2002, one of the foundation’s main goals has been to a delimited area has the potential to demonstrate the business’ improve the quality of public education through its free portal positive impact in practice, functioning as a laboratory for social www.educarede.org.br, which provides exclusive contents on innovation. contemporary subjects of interest aimed primarily at primary and secondary level students and teachers. In 2012, the Fundação will systematize these experiences, carrying out surveys to assess the impact of connectivity on these Among the actions undertaken in 2011, worthy of note is the communities. support for the Rio de Janeiro Municipal Education Department and Unesco in training interns to provide orientation on the One of the most emblematic experiences in local development is use of technology in the computer rooms of the 150 schools underway in the state of Pará. After the installation of three 3G participating in the city’s Escolas do Amanhã (Tomorrow’s technology antennas in Belterra, Mojuí dos Campos and Suruacá, Schools) program. Created by the department in 2009, education, health and community reinforcement projects were the program is aimed at reducing school dropout rates and also implanted in the towns in partnership with the NGO Saúde e transforming the reality of students living in violent areas of the Alegria (Health and Happiness), benefiting 140 communities with a city. The training for the 300 university students involved, most total population of 30 thousand people. of whom live in the communities benefiting from the program, was aimed at preparing them to work together with students In the education area, Local Educational Arrangements involving and teachers to expand the use of technology, help systematize different community education actors were implanted, together routines and procedures in computing rooms and provide with video and social media workshops via the use of cellular guidance on the ethical and responsible use of the internet. telephones. In the domain of health, the vessel Barco Abaré – which provides health care for the Tapajós River riverside communities The first joint action by the Fundação Telefônica and the was provided with telemedicine and emergency care equipment. Instituto Vivo took place at the 2011 Campus Party (read more In the area of Community Development, training programs on the in the chapter on Digital inclusion), when they promoted three Children’s and Adolescents’ Statute were organized, and cellular debates on technology and how it relates to education, culture telephones (with voice and data credits) were donated to local and youth behavior. The first addressed the generation of residents’ associations. young people who were born into the digital culture and are now causing a silent revolution. The positive results obtained by this project, which also provided a financial return on the investment, provided inspiration for the The second debate, “Education and Digital Culture – A Necessary company’s nationwide 3G technology expansion program. Combination”, discussed the ways in which technology may favor knowledge production in an educational context. The Another significant experience was the Pescando com Redes 3G or third, “Technology and Culture: Production, Diffusion and Fishing with 3G Nets project, organized in Santa Cruz Cabrália on Access”, addressed the role technology has played in cultural the coast of Bahia, in partnership with Qualcomm. In the region, development, expanding the means of artistic and cultural fishing is one of the main economic activities, with many families production and facilitating social inclusion. dependent on it for their livelihood. Lack of investment and outdated infrastructure were leading to diminished opportunities, Another important project in the Education and Learning area causing locals to migrate in search of work. The Fishing with 3G is the Fundação Telefônica Class, which entails the donation of Nets project provided the fishermen with training and technical notebooks and technology infrastructure, as well as technical support to improve their livelihoods using ICT. The Fundação training, aimed at encouraging educators to incorporate Telefônica | Vivo equipped them with cellular telephones with Information and Communication Technology (ICT) into their 3G access and an application that provides the fishermen with classes. This project is being expanded and is in place in seven information on navigation, weather conditions, data, marketing municipal districts in the state of São Paulo: Diadema, Campinas, and direct sales, among other features. Hortolândia, Santos, Bauru, Bebedouro and Ourinhos. It involves a total of 36 schools and 1,800 educators, benefiting some Another two Local Development experiences are underway in the 21,600 students. city of São Paulo. In Parque Santo Antônio in the south of the city, the library Biblioteca para Todos was installed and equipped with computers, internet connection, cellular telephones. A survey was conducted to assess the development and impact of the process of co-creation with the community on the resolution of Telefônica Brasil | Annual Sustainability Report 35 Social impact local problems. In the west São Paulo district of Barra Funda, the A key event is Volunteer Day, which has been held in the Fundação has a partnership with TGestiona, supported by the NGO country since 2006. In this initiative, employees donate a day Cidade Escola Aprendiz, aimed at developing local leaders. The to community work comprehending a variety of activities, Fundação is also working on vocational projects for young people in including building and remodeling work, recreation, gardening and these two urban communities. landscaping, and working in libraries and toy libraries. With the Telefônica/Vivo integration, the event gained a special meaning, Another 2011 initiative was the Wikimapa project, undertaken by underscoring the creation of a single company. the non-governmental organization Solidaritas’ Rede Jovem. The objective is to create a virtual map of 16 communities in Rio de Held on October 7, 2011, the event was expanded from five to Janeiro’s Complexo do Alemão district. Young community members twelve cities: São Paulo, Rio de Janeiro, Campinas, Ribeirão Preto, use cellular telephones to map streets as of yet unrecorded on Porto Alegre, Recife, Salvador, Curitiba, Brasília, Belo Horizonte, surveys and internet maps and to identify local assets and places Goiânia and Belém, involving more than 3 thousand employees. of public interest, such as hospitals, schools, businesses, NGOs, In the city of São Paulo, instead of concentrating on just one public squares and sports facilities. institution as in previous years, the volunteers engaged in a series of activities in the Barra Funda district. Around two thousand Volunteer work employees helped to clean up and redecorate public squares, schools, a shelter and a health center under the supervision of In partnership with Telefônica | Vivo, the Fundação coordinates artists, architects and scenographers. Prior to the event, the the Telefônica Volunteers program, which seeks to involve Fundação consulted community leaders and residents to identify company employees in various types of social work, including their needs and wishes. training programs, and blood and toy donation campaigns. It also provides support for projects in which employees already Another important program component is Vacation Solidarity, a work as volunteers. Around 4,500 employees are engaged in global project which aims to promote solidarity among employees, the program. encouraging them to do volunteer work in other Latin American Telefônica Brasil | Annual Sustainability Report 36 Social impact countries during their vacation. In 2011, three Brazilian employees kilos. One of the company’s São Paulo units alone donated 10 worked with NGOs supported by the Pró-Menino program in thousand toys. Panama, Venezuela and El Salvador. At the beginning of 2012, the Fundação led the renewal of Throughout the year campaigns to donate blood and items such as the volunteer program, with the active participation of Group warm clothing and toys are organized as part of the program. This employees throughout the country. Changes for 2012 include was also the case in the public calamity caused by heavy rainfall in increased use of technology in program actions to boost Rio de Janeiro at the beginning of the year. identification with the Group’s business. In December, more than 2,700 Group employees took part Another alteration was the establishment of a more decentralized in the Christmas Campaign. This benefited more than 8 governance model to enable the program to grow. There is a thousand people in 31 cities nationwide with donations of Strategy Committee (comprising directors from several group food, toys, clothing and hygiene products. Employees also companies and the Fundação Telefônica | Vivo) and an Executive paid visits to child care institutions, organizing games and Coordination, responsible for program strategies and guidelines. other activities. Working with the post office, employees Additionally, Ambassadors were created for each region in the replied to 960 letters sent by children to Father Christmas, country to coordinate the Volunteer Committees, which are made a 12.7% increase over 2010. Food donations totaled 1,840 up of employees from different group companies. Debate and Knowledge This line of activity was introduced in 2011 with a view to stimulating, publicizing and sharing reflections on questions of relevance to society as a whole. The main actions in 2011 were the organization of debates and the publication of materials dealing with the impact of technologies on society. To enhance the debate on new technology area careers that are revitalizing the labor market and may drive profound social, economical and environmental changes in the future and to contribute to a more digital and inclusive society, in the second half of 2011 the Fundação Telefônica | Vivo organized the New Professions Cycle. This is a project with a strong social repercussion aimed at identifying professions of the future, in particular those related to ICT. Held in seven state capitals (São Paulo, Belém, Florianópolis, Goiânia, Recife, Belo Horizonte and Rio de Janeiro) over a period of three months, the event engaged young people, technology professionals and social entrepreneurs in a discussion about emerging professions, trends and their potential to transform the labor market. The discussions were coordinated by digital leaders based on the concept of the co-creation of ideas. In November, the Fundação Telefônica | Vivo launched two publications. “InnovaLatino: Promoting Innovation in Latin America” is the result of an exclusive study conducted in the continent to show how innovation could help Latin America to grow economically, increase productivity, boost trade and improve public well-being. The two-year study was undertaken by the business school Insead and the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development’s (OECD) Development Center, with support from the Fundação Telefônica | Vivo. 1,500 companies in Argentina, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, Costa Rica, Mexico, Peru and Uruguay were surveyed. The publication also presents more than 50 case studies on companies and organizations considered to be innovation leaders in their respective sectors. The book “The Linked World – How ICT is Transforming Societies, Cultures and Economies”, published in conjunction with the American organization The Conference Board, presents the results of a two-year global survey which analyzes how technologies have evolved and their impacts on different countries. The study examines how new relations generated by ICT may foment and support innovation and enable the integration of ideas, values and cultures to drive social progress. Telefônica Brasil | Annual Sustainability Report 37 Social impact Incentives for culture and sport Telefônica | Vivo sponsors activities aimed at providing public access to culture and promoting social inclusion through sports and the social use of Information and Communication Technologies (ICT). The main actions in 2011 were: Telefônica Sonidos – The company maintained its “Sonidos” platform, a series of musical events combining different musical genres on a single stage. More than 20 thousand people attended the seven free shows presented in São Paulo’s Ibirapuera Park, the unifying theme being “Mix” or “Misture-se”. Similarly, a second edition of the Telefônica Sonidos Festival Mundo Latino was organized, producing an intense interchange between Brazilian artists and other Latin American musicians on two stages set up in São Paulo’s Jockey Club on August 26 and 27. Until January 2015, Vivo has a sponsorship agreement Sports – Under a sport incentive law, Telefônica | Vivo covering all the CBF (Brazilian Football Confederation) men’s supported the educational sport project Vivo Esporte Craíbas, and women’s soccer teams. This gives the brand nationwide organized by the Fundação Teotônio Vilela in the municipal visibility in Brazil’s most popular sport, with exclusive rights district of Craíbas, Alagoas, applying Minas Tênis Clube sporting to the use of national team contents on cellular telephones. technology to the three sports sponsored by Vivo (football, volleyball and basketball) and promoting digital inclusion for Culture – In line with its strategy of promoting closer children aged from 9 to 16 years. relations between the individual and society through collective cultural programs, Telefônica | Vivo develops During the year, the company inaugurated eight units of the projects jointly with artists, cultural producers, public Telefônica Basketball Center, which identifies and provides authorities and the private sector. Specific platforms created training for talented players aged from 10 and 17 years in public for these actions are Conexão Vivo, for Brazilian music; schools in 12 municipal districts in São Paulo. The project is Vivo EnCena, for the scenic arts; Vivo Arte.Mov., for mobile overseen by the ex-professional player Hortência Marcari. and location-based media; and Vivo Lab, a laboratory of concepts, ideas, experiences and actions. In 2011, the The company maintained its sponsorship of the men’s teams company sponsored some 210 projects, resulting in the from the Franca Basquetebol Clube (Vivo Franca) and Vôlei Minas, organization of more than 500 events in seven states for a with the objective of forging closer ties with these regions. direct audience of 2.2 million people. Telefônica Brasil | Annual Sustainability Report 38 Social impact Stakeholder engagement The integration of Telefônica and Vivo made the need for open dialog with our stakeholders clearer than ever, with a view to forging closer ties and boosting our capacity to respond to their demands. As a result, 2011 was a year of intense company activity on the social networks via its official profiles, which include Telefônica na Web (@telefonicanaweb) and Vivo em Rede (@vivoemrede), as well as other profiles used to communicate with the public, such as Vivo On (@vivoon). We have sought to increasingly strengthen our relations with the public through social media. This interaction permits an exchange of information, as well as the provision of contents on connectivity, new products, special offers and campaigns. We believe that this dynamic not only modifies the way in which we relate to our clients and society, but also helps us to improve our products and services as a result of the complaints, suggestions and other feedback we receive. Just as important as keeping our clients satisfied is the need to ensure that our employees and partners are prepared and inspired by our mission of simplifying our clients’ lives and increasing their connectivity. To this end, we have progressed in preparing our internal stakeholders to act as company spokespersons in their own profiles on social networks, an important tool for consolidating the company’s public image. Interaction between the Corporate Intranet and social networks (Facebook, Twitter and Google+) was boosted, with employees publicizing Telefônica | Vivo actions and events by posting contents drawn from the Corporate Intranet on their own networks. Internal communication also played an important role in the integration process, providing clear, opportune information about key steps in the transformation. An integration hotsite with news, new policies, data on the two companies and other relevant information was created to unify the content for all involved. Additionally, new internal channels were launched. The According to the findings, most of the participants see the company’s more than 20 thousand employees now receive concept of “service convergence” – the offer of mobile + a daily newsletter, “Conectados – Informativo”, as well fixed telephony + broadband internet + mobile internet + as “Conectados – Executivo”, an electronic newsletter for subscription TV– as an improvement in service quality that is executives. And all company news and information is also more practical and economical for the user. They believe that available on the company intranet, “Conectados – Intranet”. such convergence should result in a single service channel and a single bill, regardless of the number of products involved. There With so many changes taking place in the company, a study is a general consensus that the service provided by telephone was carried out to explore how the residential consumer and pay TV companies is inefficient. The conclusion was that understands the concept of convergence, with a view to the idea of convergence is attractive, suggesting benefits in developing a line of action offering a larger number of terms of ease, convenience, economy and service quality for products and services, as well as unifying accounts, services users; however there is room for doubt and concern in view of and communications with clients. Conducted in Curitiba, previous negative experiences. Porto Alegre and São Paulo, this consisted of discussion groups comprising class A, B and C clients and non-clients, The findings from the studies are channeled to the aged between 30 and 45 years, deciders on subscriptions corresponding product, service, quality and communication for personal cellular and fixed telephony, fixed and mobile areas so that new service packages may more effectively meet broadband, and pay TV services. consumer demands. Telefônica Brasil | Annual Sustainability Report 39 Balance sheet Balance sheet Major recognitions for Telefônica | Vivo in 2011 There follows a list of the most important awards and recognitions granted to Telefônica / Vivo by the press and other organizations during the year. Leader in the Fortune magazine ranking of the most admired telecommunications companies Distinction in the Exame magazine Telecommunications sector “Biggest and Best” ranking 1st place in the FIA/Você S/A– The Best Companies to Begin Your Career survey Great Place to Work, GPTW/Época The Best Companies to Work For, FIA/Exame The Best in IT and Telecom, GPTW/Época The Best in the Telecommunications Sector, Exame Leader in Istoé Dinheiro “Best Companies” ranking Winner in Fixed Telephony category in Best Customer Experience Award Distinction in internet access in annual Telecom ranking In Top 20 in the Época Green Company Award First place in the Communication category in 2011 Folha Top of Mind Winner of Brazil Intangibles Award in the “Telecom, Internet and Media” category Winner of Best Customer Experience Award in the Mobile Telephony category Distinction in the fixed and mobile telephony sectors in the Carta Capital “The 2011 Most Admired Companies in Brazil” ranking São Paulo Commercial Association’s “Best of Biggest” Award, which selected 16 companies with proven results and efficiency Distinction in Época magazine’s Época Green Company Award Telefônica Brasil | Annual Sustainability Report 41 Balance sheet Key Indicators Stakeholder perception 2011 2010 2009 Employee satisfaction (%) Fixed 86**** 81 78 Mobile 85 82 Client satisfaction Telefônica | Vivo 7.37**** 6.67 6.35 Reputation in society * RepTrak Pulse 48 45 39 RepTrak Index 52 50 44 RepTrak Supply 51 48 37 RepTrak Work 51 49 44 RepTrak Integrity 52 48 42 RepTrak Leadership 52 52 45 RepTrak Innovation 52 53 47 RepTrak Finance 61 59 57 RepTrak Citizenship 51 51 46 Supports social causes 51 50 45 Protects environment 50 48 43 Telefônica Operational Indicators Economic impact (in millions of R$)** Net revenues 34,234 30,966 24,609 Investment in infrastructure (Capex) 5,741 4,930 3,625 Investment in research and development 45.9 19.3 15.1 Taxes 14,235 13,037 10,228 Purchase volume 17,844 15,733 12,821 Clients Total number of clients accesses (in 000s)*** 86,864 75,920 67,679 Total number of complaints (in 000s)* 6,399 11,324 10,339 Employees Total number of employees ** 105,731 101,920 83,897 Hours training per employee **** 19 26 23 Suppliers*** Number of suppliers contracted 3,990 3,733 3,675 Society Social investment Fundação Telefônica | Vivo (R$ millions) 35,704 24,877 21,909 Direct Fundação Telefônica beneficiaries 688,603 609,459 393,851 * Information refers exclusively to the Telefônica | Vivo fixed operation ** For previous years, the data include 50% of Vivo. From 2010, 100% of the company data is included. *** Numbers include 100% of Vivo data. **** For previous years, the data refer exclusively to the fixed operation. From 2011, 100% of the company data is included. Telefônica Brasil | Annual Sustainability Report 42 Balance sheet 2011 Directives and achievements Supported by the pillars of the BSC and organizational strategy Pillar Directive Result Clients To achieve our targets, we must be client • According to the Brand Tracking survey, the company focused, ensuring that: was preferred over its competitors. • clients are able to identify our brand and that they • We ended the year with a reduction of over 17% in prefer it to our competitors; client complaints to Anatel compared with January • we provide superior service at all points of contact 2011. (service channels, network, installation, billing • The number of users of online customer service etc.), striving to meet clients’ demands and to channels (via web, SMS and others) practically reduce complaints to organizations such as Anatel doubled in 2011. and Procon; • we are innovative, providing digital service and sales channels that drive operational efficiency. Offering To provide superior service, we need to offer • The company’s financial performance was robust products and services that meet each client’s in all business areas in 2011; particularly worthy needs, as well as: of note was the increase of more than 2 million in • guarantee the performance of the company’s postpaid clients. main businesses, that is pre and postpaid mobile • High revenue growth in data and internet services, lines, fixed residential and enterprise lines; and high penetration of our client base. More than • foment businesses presenting growth potential, 13 million existing clients contracted mobile internet such as data and internet, striving to increase access. market leadership; • New businesses and synergies boosted revenues • develop new businesses that will differentiate the by almost R$ 1 billion. company and provide new revenue streams for the future. Platform To support growth and routine operations, • Important infrastructure projects were implemented we must: in 2011. • guarantee network quality and coverage so that • Company systems were maintained online with above services are always available for clients; average performance. • ensure the reliability of our systems for internal • The availability of our mobile and fixed networks and external clients; supported business growth even in areas where • ensure the company’s strategic projects are operations are new, such as the Northeast of executed, supporting our growth and profitability. the country. Sustainability To obtain the best results we need to think • We relentlessly redesigned processes, striving for about people because they are the ones who efficiency. will ensure the company’s future success and • We maintained an excellent internal climate, with sustainability in all dimensions. To this end, more than 85% of positive responses in the climate we must: and commitment survey conducted among all • strive for efficiency in our processes; employees. • ensure our people are motivated and committed because they are our differential. Telefônica Brasil | Annual Sustainability Report 43 Balance sheet 2012 Directives 2012 Pillar Directive Client focus Communicate to the company that it must maintain its client focus, ensuring that: • the Vivo brand is preferred by consumers; • the company establishes a personalized relationship with clients, driving greater loyalty; Capturing growth Growth in our captured market is strategic and profitable: • through increased convergence in offerings for clients; • capturing the value created in all the markets; • making the internet and innovation levers for growth. Best platform To guarantee the growth of the operation, we need: • quality and coverage in our fixed and mobile networks, guaranteeing service quality for clients; • to maintain the reliability and performance of our systems. More efficient Thus ensuring efficient growth and retention of talent: • Promoting a balance between growth and profitability, with a permanent focus on the sustainability of the business; • Encouraging our clients to interact with Vivo through the service channels and e-commerce; • Ensuring our employees are highly satisfied and proud to work for Telefônica | Vivo. Telefônica Brasil | Annual Sustainability Report 44 Telefônica Brasil | Annual Sustainability Report 45 Impacto económico | La innovación en Telefónica Telefônica Brasil | Annual Sustainability Report 46
