TIM PARTICIPAÇÕES: Sustainability Report 2011 INDEX Index 1 Message from the Management 2 About TIM 9 Corporate Governance 13 A borderless world 17 Sustainability 32 About the report 33 Letter of assurance 34 Annual Social Accounting 36 GRI Index 39 credits TIM PARTICIPAÇÕES: Sustainability Report 2011 1 Message from the Management Welcome to the TIM Sustainability Report 2011 For TIM, 2011 was a year of striking structural growth, both As a result, the company reached the mark of 64.1 million in organic terms and via acquisitions. In addition, the year users , growth of 25.6% in the client base in relation to 2010, saw the company recapture second place in Brazil’s moa combination of higher volume and a healthier bottom line. bile telephone market, strengthening its position as the TIM has put much effort into this aspect, in the search for fastest-growing operator in the country, both in terms of democratic access to mobile telephony and internet through customers and revenue. innovative offerings and low prices, as always, in the unlimited usage format that gives the consumer greater freedom. The acquisition of AES Atimus (now called TIM Fiber), in Also with this purpose in mind, an agreement was reached addition to raising the company’s market value, represents with Telebrás for the use of the TIM mobile network to conan important expansion to its fiber optic network, enabling tribute to the National Broad Band Program, or PNBL, a it to offer high-quality broad band in the cities of Rio de JaBrazilian government initiative to universalize internet acneiro and São Paulo, adding further potential to the lives cess throughout the country. This is how TIM is betting on a of its users. Hand in hand with the organic investments huge, growing market, with increasing inclusion. in infrastructure development, these demonstrate TIM’s commitment to better quality of service, in addition to new The TIM social and environmental responsibility policies prospects for the sustained development of the business. are based on the UN Global Compact, a commitment to which TIM has been a signatory since 2008. The purpose In order to raise customer satisfaction in relation to the serof this report is both the Communiqué of Progress (COP) vices provided and minimize possible environmental immade by the company in the ten principles comprising the pacts, TIM has remained focused on improving the quality Global Compact, and its accountability within the frameof the network. In 2011 alone R$ 2.1 billion were invested work of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). in this area. By modernizing the network, technology substitution and sharing sites with other operators – among Another important guideline as to how TIM operates was other measures – TIM has successfully optimized land the dialog undertaken in 2011 with stakeholder representaoccupation, without increasing energy consumption and tives, so as to identify material topics for the organization. greenhouse gas emissions in the same proportion to the This process will ensure greater consistency and legitimagrowth of the network infrastructure. cy for sustainability management within the company. The company also enhanced its emissions inventory, and Lastly, TIM’s commitment to good corporate governance for the first time since 2008, it commissioned an assurwas also evident during 2011, with the company joining the ance of the survey, which ensures a transparent and reliNovo Mercado segment of the Brazilian Stock and Comable process. modities and Futures Exchange (BM&FBovespa), the segment of the exchange that brings together companies with The manner in which the company met its economic objecthe most advanced practices in the field. The migration entives reveals that it is on the right path, and from this point sures better alignment of the interests of the majority and of view 2011 was a year full of successes: gross revenue minority shareholders, providing this public with a greater rose by 22% (the fastest growth in the industry), while for say in the management of the company. the second consecutive year, TIM led in incremental market share, with growth of 33%. Gross additions stood at For 2012, new targets have been established, which implies 39.8 million, while the net figure was a historical letter of new challenges. TIM has built a solid infrastructure and the 13.1 million new lines. investments it has made will form a consistent base for the stages to come. Now, having defined the way forward, the time has come to continue the job and move ahead. TIM PARTICIPAÇÕES: Sustainability Report 2011 2 About TIM ABOUT TIM Innovation and quality Present in Brazil since 1998, TIM Participações S.A. is Brazil’s second-largest mobile telephony operator, with a nationwide presence, and whose market value TIM is the only exceeds R$ 28 billion. The subscriber base now exceeds 64 million lines, a market share of 26.5%. Controlled by company in the TIM Brasil Serviços e Participações S.A. (a subsidiary of the Telecom Italia Group) and headquartered in Rio de Jatelecommunications neiro (RJ), TIM operates in Brazil through TIM Celular S.A. and Intelig Telecomunicações Ltda. industry The company invests extensively in innovation and quality, belonging to so that customers can communicate with each other anytime, anywhere, with no frontiers. This positioning reflects Novo Mercado, the the early-mover philosophy which has been the hallmark of operations in Brazil. TIM was responsible for introducsegment of the ing innovative concepts into the Brazilian telecommunications market, such as substituting per-minute charging BM&FBovespa that with the pay-per-call system, while offering unlimited internet and text message services, also unlimited, which are hosts the shares only charged as and when they are used. of companies with The company will also be the first to make ultra-broad band available in Brazil: with the acquisition of the fithe most advanced ber optic network of AES Atimus, which led to the creation of TIM Fiber, customers in 21 cities in the states of Rio de corporate Janeiro and São Paulo will now enjoy internet connection speeds of 100 Mbps beginning in 2012. governance Commitment to sustainability practices The sustainable nature of operations is the bedrock of the company’s strategic roadmap, reiterating economic, social and environmental commitments to stakeholders and society in general. ENVIRONMENTALLY RESPONSIBLE COMMUNICATION With a view to reducing the impacts of this SusIn 2011, for example, TIM closed a contract with Teletainability Report, TIM has opted to disclose its bras to participate in the National Broad Band Program progress in this area in 2011 in a different manner. (PNBL), thereby contributing to the universalization of inThis time, we have focused our efforts on launchternet access in Brazil. And its alliance with the LT Amazoing a much bolder, more interactive site, as well as nas consortium will take web access to small towns and this PDF file. While obviously producing less imcommunities in the states of Amazonas, Pará and Amapá, pact than if published on paper, the layout project in northern Brazil, with a highly resistant and available inof this document was totally designed so that, in frastructure, in order to ensure economically sustainable case it is printed, the consumption of printer ink will social services. be much lower. TIM PARTICIPAÇÕES: Sustainability Report 2011 3 About TIM In tandem with this guideline, in the environmental field TIM in figures TIM has sought dialog, encouraging infrastructure sharing • 64.1 million customers – growth of 25.6% for the year with the telecommunications market and companies pro• 13.1 million new lines added in 2011 viding public utility services. Shared use of fiber optics, ca• 10,814 employees bles, ducts and sites is vital for ensuring that the industry • 94.4% of Brazil’s urban population covered by GSM uses its resources in an efficient and rational manner, so technology in 3,294 towns and cities as to contribute to optimizing land occupation while reduc• 64% of Brazil’s urban population covered by 3G ing energy consumption. technology • 100% data coverage using GPRS1 and 80% by Edge2 In the same vein, TIM also promotes energy efficiency and • 527 international roaming networks available in over 200 monitors greenhouse gas emissions, reporting these to the countries on six continents, for voice use Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP). • 16,000 kilometers of long-distance networks and 7,500 kilometers in metropolitan networks (fiber optics) In line with its own growth, TIM consistently invests in net• Market leader in network quality, according to Anatel work quality. This concern has made the company the indicators for the last 12 months leader in achieving targets in this field, according to the National Telecommunications Agency (Anatel). To find out more about the area covered by TIM, visit the company’s website and check out the map in the section on “cover and roaming”. An exchange-quoted holding company, TIM is the only 1 General Packet Radio Service: technology that increases data company in the telecommunications industry belonging transfer rates and is measured in kilobits per second. to Novo Mercado, the segment of the BM&FBovespa that 2 Enhanced Data rates for GSM Evolution (EDGE). Digital cell phone hosts the shares of companies with the most advanced technology for better data transmission and reliability. corporate governance practices. On the Brazilian exchanges the company is listed on the Corporate Sustainability Index, or ISE, and the Carbon Efficient Index (ICO2) for the fourth consecutive year. TIM companies in Brazil The TIM cellular telephony network structure is Company Services based on GSM TECHNOLOGY. In 2011, the comTIM Celular Nationwide mobile telephony operator in Brazil and early pany attained national coverage exceeding 94% of mover in launching a series of products here. Brazil’s urban population, with a presence in apTIM Fiber Provides high-performance communication and proximately 3,300 municipalities. It also has exteninfrastructure services in the major cities and metropolitan regions of Rio de Janeiro and São sive nationwide data coverage using 100% GPRS Paulo, covering a potential market of around 8 million and 80% Edge technology, besides a sophisticated households and 550,000 companies in 21 cities, via a 5,500 kilometer-long fiber optic network. 3G network available to over 64% of Brazil’s urban Intelig A provider of land line, long-distance telephony and data population. transmission in Brazil, the company provides integrated and customized solutions to the residential and corporate markets, the government and operators with domestic and international cover. With a 100% digital network, the company has installed fiber optics in Brazil from north to south, in addition to central telephone exchanges, satellite stations, connections to large international networks and capacity on the major submarine cable systems. TIM PARTICIPAÇÕES: Sustainability Report 2011 4 About TIM How TIM works TIM’s duties, as expressed in its Code of Ethics Offering innovative connectivity possibilities is part of TIM • Transparency in business dealings strategy. TIM operates with ear tuned to customers’ com• Fostering fair competition munication behavior and requirements, in the search for • Seeking excellence and a competitive position in new technologies to provide them with simple, practical the market and efficient services. That is why the manner in which TIM • Attending to the well-being and growth of the operates is underpinned by transparency, loyalty and excommunities where it operates cellence, always with sustainable development as its goal. • Valuing its human resources • Having sustainable development as its goal Mission, vision and values Mission – To be close to customers, offering innovative connectivity possibilities and focusing on their diverse expectations and requirements, in order to contribute as an agent for social change through sustainable management. Who helps make TIM Vision – To be the number 1 choice for our customers by providing them with high-quality innovative services, while what it is becoming the benchmark for profitability in the Brazilian telecommunications market. Every day, many people and stakeholders help to build TIM through their collaborations, demands, suggestions Values and opinions. • A proactive approach • Transparency The company believes that listening to and understanding • Speed the expectations of stakeholders is essential for the conti• Professional experience nuity of the business and for better management. That is • Innovation why it is investing in the continuous improvement of this • Entrepreneurial spirit relationship, while seeking always to keep channels open • Customer-focused for dialog and a constant spirit of partnership and respect. • Team spirit TIM stakeholders External • Customers • Suppliers • Competitors TIM believes in • Civil society organizations • Unlimited, borderless communication that brings • The environment (Environmental regulatory bodies) people together, increasing their ability to relate • Community with the world • Government • Mobility, both human and functional • Business Partners • Freedom and each man’s desire to continually Internal evolve and search for new ideas and new ways • Employees of doing things • Shareholders • Access to technology • Far-reaching democratic communication and How TIM engages with its stakeholders transparent and real relations, free of subterfuge, TIM has been increasingly seeking to listen to and engage so as to raise the mobility of each and every one with its stakeholders in striving for the sustainable growth of the organization. In 2009, a stakeholder survey was carried out by telephone and e-mail. In 2011, one of most important steps in this process was the stakeholder panel, which enabled the company to raise subject matters of importance to its strategic sustainability planning, while providing guidance on accountability through the sustainability report and other communication channels. The company believes that by communicating with its stakeholders, the engagement process is established and TIM PARTICIPAÇÕES: Sustainability Report 2011 5 About TIM strengthened. This dialog results in new demands which The box below shows the different channels by which TIM TIM seeks to address, whether via ad hoc actions, or more communicates and engages with its stakeholders. extensive changes. COMMUNICATION AND RELATIONSHIP CHANNELS Relationship actions/means Purpose Customers Client Relationship Center (CRC) To receive requests, doubts and complaints, while allowing customers to amend their data on line. Available 24 hours a day, seven days a week, via e-mail, fax, telephone or letter Exclusive (self-service) area on the site To activate and deactivate services and account enquiries Portal *144# Access via cell phone for information and to clarify doubts Twitter – “TIMTIM por TIMTIM” (www.twitter.com/Timtimportimtim) To make commercial and institutional information available On-line monitoring of social networks, such as blogs, websites and To identify themes that matter to stakeholders and which do not appear networks through formal channels Satisfaction surveys Monthly evaluation of satisfaction regarding the CRC; six-monthly survey of overall client satisfaction with the company, identifying opportunities for improvement URA (Audible Response Unit) Enables consumer self-service, including blocking and unblocking of lines and requests for second copies of invoices Speaking for customers Enables consumer self-service, including blocking and unblocking of lines and requests for second copies of invoices Suppliers Sustainability evaluation To evaluate suppliers in matters involving sustainability, helping them to identify opportunities for improvement Website www.timcommerce.com.br. To provide an exclusive channel for dialoging with suppliers regarding registration, clarification of doubts and suggestions Competitors Participation in several class associations, for example, the National To maintain a relationship of cooperation, contributing to the development Union of Telephone, Cell Phone and Personal Mobile Service of the sector Telephone Companies (SindiTelebrasil), and in study groups involving technical themes of the industry Fair Competition Information Manual To make TIM employees aware of the importance of complying with competition laws Environmental regulatory bodies Contact with the main environmental regulatory bodies, such as state Continuous improvement of the environmental performance and local departments of the environment, public works and urbanism, and the Brazilian Environment and Natural Resources Institute (Ibama) Communities and civil society organizations Permanent channels for TIM to engage with the community via e-mails To support social, cultural and educational initiatives that seek to improve (Sustainability@timbrasil.com.br, projetosocial@timbrasil.com.br e people’s quality of life. ssma@timbrasil.com.br) or through the regional offices and/or the To clear up doubts, receive suggestions and provide clarification about the Department of Press Relations and Sustainability environment and climate change. Donations (intermittent support for specific good causes) To contribute to the well-being of the community Investments in social action projects with long-term involvement Employees Corporate intranet; SMS for employees; TIM News (internal corporate To inform employees and present the new developments within the company TV, broadcast in areas with extensive movement of people); Internal To encourage employees to put their ideas forward and share their communication e-mails with the major highlights experiences through suggestions of subjects to be addressed New employee induction week To help employees adapt to the company Organizational climate survey To enhance the work environment Shareholders Website (www.tim.com.br/ri) To disclose information of interest to investors, such as results, relevant fact notices, quotations and analyses in accordance with the criteria of honesty, clarity and equality of access to information IR Contact To address the doubts of (current and potential) investors, as well as those of analysts RI 2.0 (Web 2.0 services integrated with the Investor Relations To extend the reach of the information and transparency website).Tools available: Slideshare (all presentations to investors are available for consultation): www.slideshare.net/ritim; Twitter: www.twitter.com/tim_ri; Mobile (version of the IR website for cell phones): tim.riweb.com.br/ mobile; RSS, a language standard that enables disclosure of news and information in summary form on websites and blogs Business partners TIM World (intranet) Introduces offers and administrative procedures Sales Business Bulletin (e-mail) Contains offers, procedures and incentive programs Text messaging Messages reiterating offers and advertising sales incentive campaigns E-mail marketing E-mails to back up incentive campaigns TIM PARTICIPAÇÕES: Sustainability Report 2011 6 About TIM See below the changes to our shareholder structure resultShareholder structure ing from the migration to the Novo Mercado segment: In 2011, three major events affected the company and its shareholders. Key to the figures: The first was the company joining the Novo Mercado segment, with the conversion of preferred shares to common Before migration to the shares. The second was the public offering of shares by isNovo Mercado segment suing 200,258,368 common shares, at R$ 8.60 per share, telecom italia making a total of R$ 1,722,221,964.80. The company’s capital stock closed 2011 totaling R$ 9,886,886,593.46. 100% In line with the bylaws of TIM Participações, the company must distribute a mandatory dividend of 25% of its adjusted telecom italia INTERNACIONAL N.V. net income. These two events led to changes in the shareholding structure. 100% The third event was the acquisition of AES Communicatim brasil serviços minoritários e participações s.a. tions Rio de Janeiro S.A. (“AES Com Rio”) and Eletropaulo Telecomunicações Ltda. (“AES Telecom EP”) by the full ON: 77% ON: 23% subsidiary TIM Celular S.A. (651,145,640) (192,840,875) PN: 61% PN: 39% (991,164,522) (642,653,898) TOTAL: 66% TOTAL: 34% (1,642,310,162) (835,494,773) telecom italia tim participações s.a. 100% 100% 100% telecom italia INTERNACIONAL N.V. tim celular s.a. intelig 100% After migration to the tim brasil serviços Novo Mercado segment Minority interests e participações s.a. telecom italia 67% 33% (1,611,969,946) (805,662,701) ON: 67% ON: 33% 100% (1,611,969,946) (805,662,701) telecom italia INTERNACIONAL N.V. tim participações s.a. 100% 100% 100% tim brasil serviços Minority interests tim celular s.a. intelig e participações s.a. 67% 33% (1,484,318,537) (733,055,742) 98% 100% ON: 67% ON: 33% (1,484,318,537) (733,055,742) tim fiber rj tim fiber sp tim participações s.a. 100% 100% Current shareholder structure of TIM Participações, following the acquisition of AES Communications Rio de Janeitim celular s.a. intelig ro S.A., whose name was changed to TIM Fiber RJ S.A., and Eletropaulo Telecomunicações Ltda., currently TIM Fiber SP Ltda. TIM PARTICIPAÇÕES: Sustainability Report 2011 7 About TIM Key to the figures The Novo Mercado segment This is a special listing segment of the BM&FBovespa, comprising companies committed to adopting measures Prior to the Offering and to reflect the highest level of corporate governance. Closure of the AES Atimus Deal telecom italia Following the migration, all preferred shares were converted to common shares, eliminating the difference between 100% share classes, with all TIM shareholders thereafter enjoying the same rights, including voting rights. telecom italia INTERNACIONAL N.V. Besides converting preferred shares to common shares, 100% the following rules imposed by the regulations of Novo Mercado are worthy of note: (i) in the event shareholder tim brasil serviços e participações s.a. Minority interests control is relinquished, minority shareholders are entitled to receive for their shares the same amount paid for the 67% 33% shares of the controlling shareholders (100% tag along); (1,484,318,550) (733,055,729) (ii) at least 20% of the company’s board of directors must ON: 67% ON: 33% (1,484,318,550) (733,055,729) be independent members; (iii) the company must maintain at least 25% of its shares in free float; and (iv) more comtim participações s.a. plete disclosure of financial data, including quarterly reports showing cash flow statements and consolidated re100% 100% ports reviewed by an independent auditor, among others. tim celular s.a. intelig These measures taken together align the interests of the controlling shareholders with those of minority interests, providing greater security to those wishing to invest in the After the Offering and company. Closure of the AES Atimus Deal TIM Fiber telecom italia In line with the business strategy of expanding its activities and strengthening its infrastructure, in 2011 TIM acquired 100% the 5,000-limometer network of fiber optic cables of AES Atimus, which then became known as TIM Fiber. telecom italia INTERNACIONAL N.V. Serving the main municipalities in the metropolitan areas 100% in the states of Rio de Janeiro and São Paulo, TIM Fiber covers a potential market of approximately 8 million homes tim brasil serviços e participações s.a. Minority interests and 550,000 companies in 21 cities, using a fiber optic network 5,500 kilometers in length. 67% 33% (1,611,969,946) (805,662,701) Through TIM Fiber, TIM intends to offer, as of 2012, inON: 67% ON: 33% (1,611,969,946) (805,662,701) ternet access at speeds of up to 100 Mbps in cities of Rio de Janeiro and São Paulo. This is what is known as ultratim participações s.a. broad band. 100% 100% Public offering tim celular s.a. intelig In September 2011, TIM made a global public offering consisting of 190,796,858 common shares, at R$ 8.60 98% 100% per share, raising a total of R$ 1.64 billion. Additionally, in October the company made available an overallotment of 9,461,510 common shares (totaling R$ 81.4 miltim fiber rj tim fiber sp lion), for the sole purpose of attending to the excess demand detected in the public offering. In all TIM raised Other information about the shareholder structure of TIM R$ 1.722 billion, issuing 200,258,368 common shares. can be found in the TIM 2011 Annual Report For more information about Novo Mercado and TIM Fiber, see the 2011 Annual Report. TIM PARTICIPAÇÕES: Sustainability Report 2011 8 About TIM Commitments by TIM The ten principles of the Global Compact: Human rights: Global Compact 1 Business must support and respect the protection Since 2008, TIM Brasil has been a signatory to the UN of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Global Compact initiative that brings together companies 2 Make sure they are not complicit in human rights committed to including in their business practices ten basic abuses. principles in the fields of human rights, labor relations, the environment and combating corruption. Labor 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of TIM strives to inculcate these principles in daily operaassociation and the effective recognition of the tions and in relationships with all out stakeholders. The acright to collective bargaining; tions taken by TIM involving the principles of the compact 4 The elimination of all forms of forced and are described throughout this report. compulsory labor; 5 The effective abolition of child labor; and GRI 6 The elimination of discrimination in respect of The Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) is an independent oremployment and occupation. ganization that encourages companies to report on their social, environmental and economic performance. With The Environment help from companies and partners worldwide, the GRI has 7 Businesses should support a precautionary established a standard for reporting on sustainability which approach to environmental challenges; is today the most accepted worldwide and which TIM has 8 Undertakes initiatives to promote greater adopted. environmental responsibility; and 9 Encourage the development and diffusion of More than anything else, the GRI directives are an imporenvironmentally friendly technologies. tant tool for measuring results and reflecting on actions taken within the three pillars of sustainability (economic, Corruption social and environmental), identifying gaps and pointing 10 Companies should work against corruption in all the way to improvements. its forms, including extortion and bribery. Discover more in About the report. Carbon Disclosure Project Since 2007, TIM has responded to the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) questionnaire about the greenhouse gases it emits and its strategy in regard to climate change. The CDP is an independent organization comprising the largest global data base of corporate information on climate change, which is consulted by investors, government entities, legislatures, the academic community and the public Carbon Efficient Index (ICO2) in general. More than 3,000 companies worldwide currentA joint initiative between the BM&FBovespa and the Naly measure and disclose their emissions in the CDP. tional Economic and Social Development Bank (BNDES), the Carbon Efficient Index (ICO2) comprises shares of Corporate Sustainability Index companies that adopt transparent practices in regard to (local acronym, ISE) their greenhouse gas emissions (GHG), encouraging a Created by the BM&FBovespa jointly with entities such as low-carbon economy. For the second consecutive year, Instituto Ethos and the Ministry of the Environment, the TIM has been a member of the index launched in 2010. purpose of the ISE is to benchmark socially responsible investments. It comprises shares of companies acknowledged for their commitment to social responsibility and corporate sustainability, selected once a year based on an extensive questionnaire that evaluates how they include sustainability in management. TIM has been a member of this group for four years. TIM PARTICIPAÇÕES: Sustainability Report 2011 9 Corporate Governance Corporate Governance TIM is committed to the highest corporate governance ENVIRONMENTAL POLICY practices at local and international level. In addition to comThis establishes the principles that aim to foster continuplying with the requisites of section 404 of the Sarbanesous improvement in environmental performance, as well Oxley Law, in 2011 TIM joined the Novo Mercado segment as sustainable and responsible management. These prinof the BM&FBovespa, the maximum level of corporate ciples include: lower production of waste, encouraging segovernance in Brazil, becoming the only telecommunicalective collection and the recovery and recycling of gartions operator to have its shares traded in this segment. bage, in addition to unconditional compliance with current environmental legislation. Available on TIM’s website. SUPPLIER RELATIONS POLICY Transparency, integrity, respect for workers’ rights and Codes, principles commitment to sustainability are several of the principles enshrined in this policy and which govern TIM relations and policies with its suppliers. Available on the TIM website. The ten principles established by the Global Compact have COMMUNICATION AND MARKETING POLICY inspired the codes and policies adopted by the Telecom ItalThe purpose is to ensure that marketing communication ia Group and by TIM. These documents strengthen the comactions and projects are aligned with its mission and susmitment to matters regarding human rights, protection of the tainability-related principles. In the document, the company environment, labor conditions and combating corruption. agrees to abide by current legislation and the self-regulation codes of the industry, in addition to disclosing correct, CODE OF ETHICS clear and complete information when advertising its prodAs the basis for TIM organizational model, the Code of ucts and services. Available on the TIM website. Ethics expresses the fundamental values underlying the relationship between employees and suppliers, custom231 ORGANIZATIONAL MODEL ers, consumers and the community, such as transparenBased on Italian law 231/2001 dealing with corruption in cy, honesty and loyalty, including for example, a ban on relations with the government and establishing severe contributions to political parties or related institutions. It is sanctions against crimes committed by managers, employavailable to all employees on the intranet, as well as on the ees and staffers, TIM has adopted the 231 organizational company’s website. model of the Telecom Italia Group. This principle prevents the personal responsibility of those who commit crimes BUSINESS CODE OF CONDUCT covered by the law from affecting companies, in addition This establishes the criteria for relations with suppliers, to being a necessary instrument for controlling internal procustomers, consumers and the community, preventing situcesses. The 231 organizational model is composed of the ations that are potentially damaging to the company’s inCode of Ethics, the General Principles of Internal Control, terests, while seeking fair and equitable relations with the the Principles of Behavior with Government Entities and market and the business environment. the Internal Control Schemes. These documents provide details on the directives and establish the processes for THE TIM SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY POLICY preventing fraud and corruption. This describes the guidelines to be followed by the company in matters concerning health and safety, valuing of diversity, child and forced labor, freedom of association, discrimination and harassment. TIM PARTICIPAÇÕES: Sustainability Report 2011 10 Corporate Governance The Fiscal Council, which also fulfills the role of Audit ComOTHER GUIDELINES mittee, receives complaints via e-mail, the complaints channel or by post. These complaints are forwarded to the SARBANES-OXLEY LAW internal audit team, which investigates the matter while TIM abides by the provisions required under section 404 of preserving the anonymity of the accusing party, and subthe Sarbanes-Oxley (SOx) Law concerning the reliability of mits the results of the investigation to the Fiscal Council the information disclosed by companies. which will decide on the steps to be taken. SOx applies to US and foreign companies whose shares are registered with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), the Brazilian equivalent of the CVM. In order to prevent fraud, the law enables companies to set up audit and security procedures, in addition to establishing rules whereby the committees responsible for supervising their In 2011, TIM joined activities and operations may partially comprise independent members. the Novo Mercado ISO 14001:2004 CERTIFICATION segment of the This lays down the directives for handling environmental matters within the company. TIM was Brazil’s first mobile BM&FBOVESPA, telephone operator to be awarded this certification for its Network Quality and Performance Information Monitoring the segment Management activities at its operational units in Rio de Janeiro (RJ) and Santo André (SP). representing the ISO 9001:2008 CERTIFICATION highest level The network management process is certified for the states of Minas Gerais, Bahia, Sergipe, Rio de Janeiro, Espírito of corporate Santo and São Paulo. The units in Rio de Janeiro and São Paulo are also certified for the GSM Accounts Billings Mangovernance agement process of the TIM Celular operators. among Brazilian companies. ANTI-CORRUPTION PRACTICES In 2011, the company organized an on-line course on ethics, which was taken by 2.03% of managers and 8.52% of non-management staff, amounting to 872 hours. Additional training regarding corruption deals with the SOx law, which takes a more direct approach to financial matters. In all, there were 884 hours of anti-corruption training. TIM fights corruption and takes the necessary measures when such events are identified, but does not undertake risk assessments on this issue at its units. In 2011, there was a case of a staff member involved in compromising customer information and improper substitution of SIM cards. In this and other cases, when appropriate, the facts are investigated and the appropriate measures taken, such as dismissing the employee. TIM PARTICIPAÇÕES: Sustainability Report 2011 11 Corporate Governance Accusations from anyone, anonymous or otherwise, conGovernance structure cerning the accounts, internal accounting controls or audit matters can be forwarded to the Fiscal Council/Audit ComThe governance structure at TIM is composed of the following mittee via e-mail to comitedeauditoria@timbrasil.com.br or bodies: the Board of Directors and its committees, the Execuby post to the following address: Comitê de Auditoria/Autive Board and the Fiscal Council, which also functions as the ditoria Interna, Av. das Américas, 3.434, Bloco 1, 7º andar, Audit Committee (Fiscal Council/Audit Committee). Barra da Tijuca, CEP 22640-102 – Rio de Janeiro/RJ. The compensation of the members of the board of directors and the other executives bears no relation to TIM’s social and environmental performance. Composition Attributions Board of Directors The Board of Directors of TIM is currently composed of nine members who are Responsible for management of the company at the highest elected to a two-year term of office by the general meeting, which can also remove level them from office. Reelection is permitted, and three of them must be independent members, under the terms of the Regulations of Novo Mercado. It is the members of the board who choose their president, and it is forbidden to accumulate the positions of chairman of the board and chief executive officer of the company. The structure of the Board of Directors is available on the website www.tim.com.br/ir. The company employs no processes for determining the qualifications and knowledge of the members or for the self-evaluation of the performance of the Board of Directors Compensation Committee and Internal Control and Corporate Governance Committee Each committee has three members elected by the Board of Directors from among Responsible for evaluating matters falling within its terms the members of reference and making recommendations to the Board of Directors, the body to which it is accountable Executive Board Nine officers elected by the Board of Directors for a two-year term of office Executive management of the company Fiscal Council/Audit Committee Composed of at least three and at the most five independent members with no links As the Fiscal Council it supervises the acts of the company’s to the company, elected for a term of office of one year by the general meeting, management and shareholder information. which can also remove them from office. As the Audit Committee, its work is to make recommendations The structure of the Fiscal Council can be consulted on website www.tim.com.br/ir and issue opinions about the company’s internal and external audit processes Public policies Since 2010, TIM has participated in the discussions of the Digital Inclusion Program Management Committee (CGPID), via the Brazilian Association of Competitive Telecommunication Service Providers (Telcomp) and SindiTelebrasil (the National Union of Telephone, Mobile Cellular and Personal Services Companies), whose purpose is to assist in building the National Broad Band Program (PNBL), a Brazilian government initiative to universalize internet access in Brazil. TIM and Telebras have reached an agreement for the use of the operator’s nationwide mobile network to foster mobile broad band access on PC’s and laptop computers using modems. The initiative offers web connection at a speed of up to 1 Mbps for a monthly charge of R$ 35. TIM PARTICIPAÇÕES: Sustainability Report 2011 12 Corporate Governance 2011 Highlights and goals Between the previous goals set for 2011 and the new goals for 2012, one can find below the progress of TIM’s major commitments for the year: UNIT OF DEC 2011 DEC TOPIC INDICATOR RESULTS FOR 2012 MEASUREMENT 2010 GOAL 2011 Volunteerism One day off for employees who % 1.6 1 1 Reached 1 volunteer to take part in the (company’s own Programa Cidadão sem Fronteiras staff) (Citizens without Borders Program) Training Training (total hours: in the Number of hours 715,000 636,202 Not reached classroom + on line + on the job) (own staff, interns 897,954 600,000 and contractors) Sustainability (number of people % 35 34 Reached taking part in at least one training (own staff, interns 30 course on sustainability) and contractors) The Collection of old cell phones, metric tons 14.65 12 16 Reached 13 environment/ batteries and other accessories for batteries recycling The Percentage of office–generated % 60 55 55 Reached 58 environment/ waste recycled waste The Ratio of plastic cups recycled to % N/A N/A N/A N/A Goal included environment/ total plastic cups purchased in for 2012: 40% waste 2012, in the administration offices The Reduction in electrical energy kWh 759,752 300,000 -931,161 Not For 2012, TIM will environment consumption in the offices reached** replace the office Energy/ energy goals with the offices network energy goal, as this is the most significant energyconsuming business Energy/ Reduction from 7.02% to 3.5% % (limit on the N/A N/A N/A N/A Goal included for Network in the expected increase in increase in 2012: 3.5 energy consumption in 2012 in electrical energy comparison with the previous year, consumption in of the TIM Celular mobile network 2012) Supplier Number of suppliers assessed on Aggregate total 74 140 140 Reached 180 management sustainability-related issues as of 2009 *In 2011, the company opted to give priority to the on-line training model for the operations level, which accounts for the largest group of employees. This migration from classroom to on-line courses at this level, the most representative in terms of headcount, resulted in a reduction in the absolute number of training hours. The courses were optimized to adapt them to the on-line environment, so as to reduce the period during which employees are available for certain training courses. **Although the measures described in the action plan for achieving the energy goal in the office were reached, there was a significant increase in electricity consumption. The main reason was the substitution, in one of the regional offices, of the use of generators at peak time by electricity. This decision was taken on account of the option to use energy with a lower environmental impact, as the Brazilian energy matrix is heavily weighted to water sources, while generators burn diesel oil. Other causes include higher circulation of people in the buildings (employees and visitors) and the need for them to remain at their desks for longer periods on account of overtime, primarily at Headquarter, which not only prevented energy equipment from being switched off at the scheduled time, but also required this equipment to function during overtime. That is why instead of saving 300,000 kWh, the company’s consumption rose by 931,161 kWh. TIM PARTICIPAÇÕES: Sustainability Report 2011 13 A borderless world A BORDERLESS WORLD TIM products and services enable millions of people throughout Brazil to communicate. The plans are strucInfinity Pré tured based on the concepts of fair price, unlimited use Charging for unlimited calls, rather than perand simple offers. Aware of its customers’ behavior and reminute, on calls to TIM numbers: quirements, the company invests so that people can talk more and use the internet more without having to worry • R$ 0.25 on local calls and long-distance calls about limitations like cost and time. using code 41 to any TIM number; • R$ 0.50 on local calls to any land line. These are the features of the two principal services plat• Unlimited internet and text messaging to any forms TIM offers: Infinity (pay-as-you-go) and TIM Liberty cell phone within Brazil, at R$ 0.50 for each day (monthly account). They have enabled the company to inused. troduce innovative concepts into the market, such as un• There is no joining fee or requirement to register. limited call charges – rather than charging by the minute – TIM Liberty in local calls and long-distance calls using code 41 for TIM Unlimited local calls and long-distant calls using numbers and in local calls to land lines, in the case of Incode 41 to any TIM number for a fixed monthly finity, and the possibility of unlimited use in local calls and charge. code 41 long-distance calls to any TIM number for a fixed monthly charge in TIM Liberty plans. The proof that these Unlimited internet and text messaging to any cell offers are precisely what customers want can be found in phone within Brazil for a fixed price, in the month the size of the subscriber base: Liberty users now exceed when these are used. 3 million, while Infinity prepaid customers now exceed the significant 53 million mark. Unlimited calls received on trips in Brazil, for a fixed amount in the month of use. TIM customer base is also growing thanks to the efforts to provide other social strata with telephone services through innovative proposals and lower tariffs. In 2011, the company introduced fixed daily tariffs for text messaging and data traffic, making the service cheaper for consumers, while ensuring more transparent monitoring of expenditures arising from using these facilities. Reliable network In regard to handsets, following the strategy of encouraging access to the mobile internet through higher peneIn order to support the growth in data and voice traffic and tration of smartphones and web phones, TIM reached an ensure the quality of the network and signal coverage, TIM agreement with its suppliers which enabled it to partly rehas made massive investments. In 2011 alone R$ 2.1 bilduce the price of its portfolio. lion were invested. For the three years from 2011 to 2013, TIM will invest a further R$ 7 billion in infrastructure. For more information about TIM products and services, check out the Annual Report and website. Here are some of the projects under development: • Installation of a new generation of routers, with an individual capacity of up to 4.5 terabits per second, 14 times greater than those previously used by TIM Brasil and up to three times greater than other technologies existing in the market. TIM PARTICIPAÇÕES: Sustainability Report 2011 14 A borderless world CUSTOMER SERVICE TIM has To serve more and more customers well. This is TIM’s goal and major challenge. In 2011, the customer base increasingly grew by 25.6%, reaching the 64 million customer mark. This includes 13.1 million new lines, an all-time record for invested in the company. TIM’s service structure includes 4 in-house and 7 outsourced sites. continuous Every month, TIM carries out customer satisfaction surimprovement veys regarding customer service, while every six months two satisfaction surveys are carried out regarding all areas and structural of the company. In 2011, average satisfaction with service was 7.80 and general customer satisfaction, 8.05. In 2010, change, seeking these figures were 7.68 for satisfactory service and 8.08 for overall satisfaction.1 to offer its TIM seeks to offer its customers quality services and supcustomers quality port. That is why it has invested in enhancing its processes, structural changes and network quality. services The company has adopted a preventive posture, making its offers simpler and more transparent, while simplifying processes so that customers do not have to call the Cus• Prepping of the network infrastructure for the IPV6 tomer Service Unit in search of clarification. internet protocol version, which will bring immediate economies of scale for routing and data transmission, TIM has also invested in training the attendants and in especially in video and IPTV services. monitoring in greater depth the observations of consum• Higher mobile access network capacity for voice, using ers, using qualitative surveys and monitoring studies. The new-generation technology. compensation paid to call center partners is linked to the • An increase of over 100% in the active TRX base quality of the service customers receive. Under this mod(the network component responsible for adding traffic el, those partners rated highly by users and who deal with capacity to an antenna). their requests quickly and effectively earn bonuses. • Installation of 1,800 new BTS (the network component responsible for extended and enhanced cover) and In order to sustain the rapid growth in voice traffic and the substitution of 8,300 BTS, or 75% of the current 2G acceleration in data traffic, TIM has been investing heavily structure, by other more modern technology, so as to in network quality, replacing equipment, installing more anrenovate installation facilities. tennae and increasing traffic capacity. In 2011, TIM received 20,174 complaints through the consumer protection agency – Procon -, an increase of 5.9% INNOVATION IN in relation to 2010. This happened because in 2011, in addition to growth in customer base, it began taking into acTHE MILITARY GAMES count complaints against Intelig. However, the volume of matters raised fell by 24% during the year (comparing the Intelig was the telecommunications services provider for first quarter with the fourth). the World Military Games, held in July 2011 in Rio de Janeiro. Responsible for the entire data traffic infrastructure 1 The scores shown refer to the averages in the surveys carried out used during the event, the company innovated by using laduring the year. ser optics equipment – unprecedented technology in sportThe figures for 2010 were amended in relation to those published in ing events in Brazil – thereby overcoming the geographithe Sustainability Report 2010, as that report showed the average of cal difficulties of the state. In order to overcome the chalthe last survey carried out in 2010. lenges, base transceiver stations (BTS) were used. Network connection points were distributed at the competition venues, the press and operations centers and in the accommodation buildings. The competition brought together about 6,000 athletes from 100 countries. TIM PARTICIPAÇÕES: Sustainability Report 2011 15 A borderless world In spite of the higher number of complaints in relation to 2010, there was also a significant increase in the number Marketing policy of cases resolved, so that the volume of cases resolved matched that of new complaints. TIM’s marketing and advertising practices abide by the principles established by the National Council for Advertising Self-Regulation (Conar), the entity responsible for suTotal complaints received 2010 2011 pervising ethics in advertising in Brazil. At the company 10,247,904 10,645,858 At Procon and other consumer 19,050 20,174 The company also has a specific policy – the Marketing protection bodies Communication Policy – which establishes the guidelines At Anatel 211,209 263,400 to be followed in advertisements, in point-of-sale merAt the courts 48,165 63,796 chandising, in direct marketing and events. The tenets described in the document are as follows: Total complaints and 2010 2011 criticisms resolved • The company must be certain that the information about At the company 99.9% 92% products and services appearing in advertisements and At Procon and other consumer at points of sale is correct, clear and complete; 100% 100% protection bodies • The specific literature on promotions at TIM points of At Anatel 97.9% 99.31% sale must contain the regulations and information in full; At the courts 96% 92% • The advertisements must favor a simple and direct approach, so that the public for which they are intended can easily understand them; New Complaints to Consumer Protection Entities • TIM must not attribute to its services elements that TOTAL for the year: 20.174 cannot be proven; • Advertisement content must not disparage positive social ∆ 24% values or encourage socially objectionable behavior. 6.051 5.313 In 2011, TIM was party to three lawsuits on account of un4.558 4.252 fair competition. Protecting customer data TIM prevents unauthorized access to and improper use of 1º tri. de 2011 3º tri. de 2011 its customers’ personal information. The Customer Data 2º tri. de 2011 4º tri. de 2011 Privacy Policy ensures that access to users’ information files and communication data is restricted only to employThe Service Performance Rating (local acronym, IDA) pubees and contractors who require access to this information lished by Anatel evaluates, among other indicators, comwithin the scope of their work. plaints received, complaints resolved and the rate of reopened complaints. In 2011, TIM managed to improve its In all cases, internal and external disclosure of informaperformance, achieving an IDA of 95.05 in the month of tion is prohibited, with permission granted only in cases December. where data are forwarded to other telecommunication services companies (Anatel Resolution 343/2003) and to the Since August 2010, the company has achieved 100% of courts, subject to guidance from the competent internal the customer service and sales targets of the Anatel Gendepartment. eral Quality Targets Plan. Good results were also obtained in the case of internal indicators of customer complaints The company closed 2011 with two lawsuits by customers and their satisfaction with the service received. referring to violation of privacy. TIM PARTICIPAÇÕES: Sustainability Report 2011 16 A borderless world Mobility For TIM, the concept of mobility transcends the technical The advent of and functional aspects. It is a human value. ultra-broad band In a technology-dominated world, investments in mobility mean providing new ways of working and of social relationin 2012 means that ships. TIM strives to offer its customers unlimited communication, so that they can be fully mobile through voice and TIM is innovating in data connections. That is why one of the major hallmarks is innovation. For TIM, innovation is not just about offerthe connectivitying new techniques and technologies. More than this, it is about important and efficient solutions that enhance each mobility customer’s ability to relate with the world. relationship Over recent years TIM has played an important leading role in the process of cheaper calls and data access through cell phones. As a result, more people throughout Brazil have been able to enhance their productivity, relate “Escola 24 Horas” (24-Hour School) site. The purpose of with their friends and obtain information and entertainment the portal is to help customers enrolled in university enby telephone. trance examinations and in the National High School Level Examination (Enem), by publishing content, mock exams and news about the examinations. You can read more about the acquisition of the AES Atimus Maximum connectivity network in the Annual Report. Downloading a video of more than 2 GB, depending on the connection, can take as long as the trip from Rio de Janeiro to São Paulo: almost six hours. Imagining downloading case this video in only three minutes would appear to be something from which only future generations will benefit. But Cell phones reducing distances beginning in 2012, this will now become a reality for future The case of 32-year old Wemerson Trindade is no customers of TIM Fiber. different from that of countless rural laborers who leave their homes to work the sugarcane harvests The connection speed will mean that those images of in Brazil’s southeastern region. Three years ago, homes where everything is connected and remotely conWemerson left Penalva, a little town located some trolled – from the lights to the locks, including the kid’s vid393 kilometers from São Luís, the capital of Maraeo game – may become reality much sooner than imagnhão state, and worked the sugarcane cutting seained. Workplace applications may also change the concept son in General Salgado, in the state of São Pauof the home office. For example, videoconferencing will be lo. During this period, Wemerson, a TIM customeasier. TIM’s objective is to provide fast ultra-broad band, er, calls his wife and children every day in order with its partners offering services such as home and office to tell them how much he misses them. “Before, it automation, video on demand and applications for TV. was hard to talk to the family because I had to look for a public telephone. Now with the cell phone it’s TIM is seeking to innovate in the connectivity-mobility relaso much easier. I can call them from anywhere, at tionship. In 2011, it launched the TIM Edition MobileCare, any time, without worrying about the duration of the an application for doctors which enables them to remotely call”, the sugarcane cutter concludes. access information in their field, meaning more rapid response in treating their patients. The system also contains As a result, Wemerson is not only in the statistics of a reference library and medical calculators, as well as enGeneral Salgado, but of Anatel, too: people working abling doctors to send reminders about appointment times in one state, with family in friends in another are invia text messaging to patients with TIM cell phones. creasing domestic long-distant traffic, which means that operators have to create solutions that address Another initiative was the “Vestibular 24 Horas” (24-hour this demand. University Entrance Examination) portal, jointly with the TIM PARTICIPAÇÕES: Sustainability Report 2011 17 Sustainability Sustainability Since 2010, sustainability-related themes have been part of the meetings of the Internal Control and Corporate GovTIM innovates by installing a Wi-Fi ernance Committee, directly subordinated to the companetwork in the Rocinha ny’s Board of Directors. Implementing sustainability as an In 2011, TIM launched an innovative project for across-the-board theme within the company is the responhigh-speed, wireless internet access in the Rosibility of the Press Relations and Sustainability executive cinha, a community located on the south side of management team. Rio de Janeiro. The TIM Wi-Fi project, which involves a fiber optic network from TIM Fiber, will The company’s commitment to sustainable developmentbegin to serve the community in 2012, covering focused management is reflected in the fact that it still figthe Via Ápia and Largo do Boiadeiro areas in the ures in the Sustainability Index (ISE) for the fourth conpilot set-up phase. secutive year, and in the Carbon Efficient Index (ICO2) for the second year in a row – both pertaining to the Using a two-pronged approach, the TIM Wi-Fi projBM&FBovespa. ect involves private access that will provide TIM customers with high-extremely high-speed browsing, and public access for any user with a Wi-Ficapable device. How TIM’s business In order to enhance the quality of the service, TIM has also installed antennae that distribute mobile influences the public broad band of up to 54 Mbps to the entire community, functioning as a point of access for wireTIM’s business directly impacts the economy by enhancing less connections while boosting data transmission the development prospects of entire regions through taxes capacity using fiber optics. After installing the syspaid, generating financial resources for its business parttem in the Rocinha, TIM is planning to expand ulners and, more directly, by creating jobs: although no detra-high-speed internet to other densely-populated fined policy on this subject yet exists, TIM usually prefers areas, such as universities and airports. to hire staff living in the locations where the vacancy is created, and involves the local community in advertising work positions at the company’s call centers. Furthermore, TIM products and services help to increase the productivity of growth. It also means better conditions for creating new local companies and the inclusion of people in terms of acbusinesses, injecting life into local economies and increascess to the internet and the telephone. ing the generation of income. The expansion of the fiber optic network to sparsely-popGiven the characteristics of the project, it will also be possiulated areas in the north of Brazil, a joint initiative with LT ble to offer mobile broad band connectivity and products to Amazonas, for example, has the potential to take quality the corporate market at a lower costs structure than that to internet access to townships within the project’s influence be found in the region, which will help boost consumption. in the states of Pará, Amazonas and Amapá. The project will make use of energy transmission lines and sub-stations, enabling a one hundred-fold increase in voice and data transmission capacity in the region. This means more people connected, exchanging experiences, researching new solutions for their region and more opportunities for TIM PARTICIPAÇÕES: Sustainability Report 2011 18 Sustainability Commitment to CLIMATE CHANGE the environment TIM considers climate change a strategic issue for the continuity of its business, so it monitors its greenhouse gas In its search to continually improve its performance in enemissions in order to remain one step ahead of the chalvironment-related issues, TIM abides by the principles enlenges this matter raises and the growing demand from shrined in the Global Compact and in its Environmental society. Policy. The ISO 14001 environmental standard is also an important bearing point. Today, the TIM Network Quality This response is partly reflected in participation in Brazilian and Performance Information Monitoring Management acand international initiatives like the Carbon Disclosure Projtivities at its operational units in Rio de Janeiro (RJ) and ect (CDP) – a global system for reporting information about Santo André (SP) enjoy this certification. emissions and the risks and opportunities involving climate change – in addition to corporate actions associated with In 2011, TIM invested R$ 211,000 in operational process this issue. maintenance for improving the environment, R$ 6,400 in process assessments and R$ 12,200 auditing the EnviTIM is also a component of the Carbon Efficient Index ronmental Management System and in maintaining ISO (ICO2) of the BM&FBovespa and the BNDES, and is part 14001 certification. R$ 5,900 were invested in educating of the Businesses for Climate Platform coordinated by the staff about environmental issues. The company is now preCenter for Sustainability Studies of the Getulio Vargas paring to extend this certification to other activities and opFoundation (GVCes). This group brings together industry erational units. leaders to discuss initiatives and propose corporate guidelines regarding the inclusion of climate as a variable in TIM’s commitments: business strategies, and is one of the main benchmarks in Brazil for a low-carbon scenario. • Continuous improvement and prevention of pollution – To consistently advance in its work processes, based on In addition, TIM also promotes the issue internally among reducing its environmental footprint and on the search for its employees, making them aware of the importance efficient work practices and the adoption of a pro-active of reducing energy consumption and selective garbage approach to achieving these results. collection. • Waste management – To promote minimal production of waste, while encouraging selective collection, recovery TIM’s GHG inventory and recycling. The GHG inventory of an organization is an important in• To seek to prevent post-consumption damage ternal management tool, insofar as it enables the company by developing programs for the collection and to identify emission sources and to quantify its influence on environmentally correct final disposal of products and increasing climate change, thereby clearly indicating the inputs with a potential impact on the environment. paths to adopting corporate policies involving this issue. • Electromagnetic emissions – To control the operational aspects of its units, ensuring that they comply with In line with these precepts, since 2008 TIM has prepared internal standards and with legal and regulatory its GHG inventory, retroactive to 2007, based on the most requirements, so as to keep environmental risks to a widely accepted Brazilian and international guidelines reminimum. garding the quantification and disclosure of GHG emis• Legal compliance – Unconditional compliance with sions, such as the GHG Protocol and the guidelines of the current environmental legislation. Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC). • Consumption of natural resources – To take measures aimed at reducing wasted energy and materials, so as to In 2011, besides the support of ICF International in develensure sustainable use of natural resources. oping the inventory, for the first time TIM undertook an as• Technological innovations – To foster research into surance survey to ensure more transparent and reliable technologies that keep the adverse impacts of services information. and products to a minimum. • Disclosure – To disclose the directives and encourage staff and stakeholders to participate in awareness actions and campaigns, fostering a responsible attitude to the environment. TIM PARTICIPAÇÕES: Sustainability Report 2011 19 Sustainability Under the directives of the GHG Protocol, the most globally adopted methodology for accounting for, preparing and publishing GHG inventories, TIM declares its emissions according to a division by scope, namely: Scope 1 – Direct emissions • The fuel consumed by its own fleet; • Burning of diesel to produce energy; • Emissions from leaking gases used in refrigeration equipment. Scope 2 – Indirect emissions associated with producing imported energy • Consumption of electricity purchased. Scope 1 Scope 3 – Other indirect emissions • Burning of fuel resulting from employee air travel; 2010* 1,512 tCO2e • Fuel burned by employees in their daily commuting to 2011 2,555 tCO2e the office; • Fuel burned by the contracted fleet and the vehicles of Scope 2** sales consultants; 2010 286,304.5 MWh • Waste management. 14,680.3 tCO2e 2011 346,305.1 MWh The results for 2011 can be seen in the following table. 10,130.3 tCO2e 2010 2011 Emission Emission Factors Factors (tCO2e) (tCO2e) Scope 1 1,512 2,555 739 2006 IPCC Guidelines for National 732 2006 IPCC Guidelines for National Own fleet Greenhouse Gases Inventories Greenhouse Gases Inventories 548 2006 IPCC Guidelines for National 752 2006 IPCC Guidelines for National Generators Greenhouse Gases Inventories Greenhouse Gases Inventories 225 IPCC Second Assessment Report: Climate 1,071 IPCC Second Assessment Report: Climate Leaking gas emissions Change, 1995 (HFC-134a) Change, 1995 (HFC-134a) Ashrae Standard 34, 1997 (R407-c) Ashrae Standard 34, 1997 (R407-a) Scope 2** 14,680 10,130 Electricity consumption 14,680 MCT – National grid emission factor for 2010 10,130 MCT – National grid emission factor for 2011 Scopes 1 and 2 16,192 12,685 Scope 3 19,992 24,427 2,355 2008 Guidelines to Defra’s GHG Conversion 4,878 2010 Guidelines to Defra/ DECC’s GHG Air travel Factors; 2006 IPCC Guidelines for National Conversion Factors for Company Reporting Greenhouse Gases Inventories 14,520 2006 IPCC Guidelines for National 3,675 2006 IPCC Guidelines for National Greenhouse Gases Inventories (cars and Greenhouse Gases Inventories (cars and Employee commuting buses); MCT – National grid emission factor for buses); MCT – National grid emission factor for 2010 (train and subway) 2011 (train and subway) Contracted fleet – 1,369 2006 IPCC Guidelines for National 13,001 2006 IPCC Guidelines for National Logistics Greenhouse Gases Inventories Greenhouse Gases Inventories 1,211 2006 IPCC Guidelines for National Contracted fleet – Others Greenhouse Gases Inventories 1,748 2006 IPCC Guidelines for National 1,576 2006 IPCC Guidelines for National Sales consultants* Greenhouse Gases Inventories Greenhouse Gases Inventories 86 2006 IPCC Guidelines for National Waste management Greenhouse Gases Inventories *The emissions by the fleet of TIM sales consultants shown in the 2010 publication in scope 1 (own fleet) were reallocated to scope 3 (in “Sales consultants”) for the purposes of comparison with the 2011 inventory. **Emissions from electricity consumption showed a significant reduction of 31% on account of the reduction in the national grid emission factor informed by the Ministry of Science and Technology, which takes into account the Brazilian energy matrix and supply through the National Interconnected System (SIN) (emission factors: 2011 – 0.0292 tCO2/MWh; 2012 – 0.0512 tCO2/mwH). Therefore, although the company’s electricity consumption rose by 20%, the emissions associated with generating this energy were lower than those estimated for 2010. TIM PARTICIPAÇÕES: Sustainability Report 2011 20 Sustainability In regard to scope 3 emissions, TIM has extended the covThe TIM “Chip Avulso” (Over-the-Counter SIM Card) is anerage limits, with considerable improvement in the breakother service giving customers the option of acquiring just down of the mapping of contracted transportation activities the SIM card, without having to buy new handsets. Avoid(product distribution, collection of batteries and discarded ing the unnecessary exchange of handsets reduces the handsets and transportation of waste and network equipvolume of electronic garbage generated from disposing of ment), in addition to having carried out a far-reaching surhandsets, batteries and accessories. vey among its employees regarding commuting from home to the office and having enhanced the process for collectEXISTING RISKS ing employee travel-related data. These initiatives have The principal risks identified are of a regulatory nature, the been fundamental in improving the reliability of the final repossibility of higher maintenance and operating costs and sults from indirect emissions. their direct implications on the business, summarized below. Emissions of ozone layerAlthough it has identified those aspects it considers as depleting substances having a greater influence on the business, TIM has not In addition to accounting for GHG emissions from its busiyet quantified these risks in financial terms: ness activities, TIM has quantified its emissions of ozone layer-depleting substances: Regulatory: sectorial plans established as a result of the National Policy on Climate Change may also affect the 2010 2011 UNIT telecommunications sector. Emissions R-22 0.159 0.990 t of ozone R-141 b 0.016 Physical: climatic events may interfere in business activilayer-depleting substances R-22 0.01 0.05 t of CFC-11 ties, causing: equivalent R-141 b 0.002 • higher consumption of energy to maintain network equipment at the appropriate temperature; • higher costs and rationing of energy on account of the fact that the lion’s share of energy generated in Brazil is water-powered; • shortage of renewable energy sources; • influence of humidity and salinity on the useful life of the RISKS AND OPPORTUNITIES equipment; • adverse impact on mobile telephone signals in the event The company does an annual evaluation of climate of higher rainfall; change-related risks and opportunities, making this evalu• adverse financial impact on account of higher insurance ation available to the public on the website of the Carbon prices involving natural catastrophes; Disclosure Project (CDP): www.cdproject.net. • impact on employee health and well-being; • loss of income by consumers; OPPORTUNITIES • interruptions or deterioration in telecommunication Sectorial plans for a low-carbon economy may require services due to possible environmental catastrophes companies to reduce employee deployments through affecting the network infrastructure; greater use of video conferencing and home office. This • changes in consumer behavior: loss of income and the may lead to higher demand for telecommunication and resulting reduction in the ability to purchase services. broad band services, resulting in opportunities for TIM, as The financial implications of this scenario have not this business will make it possible to reduce emissions in been calculated. other sectors through the use of information and communications technology. In addition, electronic reloads, whose prime example is the TIM POS, enabling on-line reloads via specific cell phones contribute to reducing consumption of raw materials and natural resources and the disposal of cards. This system means a reduction in emissions of CO2 from transporting the cards, reduces the risk of theft, increases product availability and customer satisfaction and takes leading-edge technology to the market. Electronic reloads currently account for 97% of all reloads, and for 2012 the company intends to achieve 100%. TIM PARTICIPAÇÕES: Sustainability Report 2011 21 Sustainability Thus all the company’s BTS have Anatel approval. The liENVIRONMENTAL IMPACTS OF cense functions as a network directive, so that all sites are installed in locations permitted by the local authority rePRODUCTS AND SERVICES sponsible, with planning and environmental permits issued when applicable. Base Transceiver Stations (BTS), the structures required for mobile telephone services to function, have several TIM has a BTS and a data transmission antenna within the impacts, including the installation work itself and electroPermanent Preservation Area (APP) located on the Pico magnetic radiation emissions. According to the Acel pubde Jabre mountain in the Paraíba state, and two other stalication, Telefonia Celular – Conheça Bem essa Tecnolotions in similar areas: one protected by the municipality, gia (Cell Phones – Understanding this technology well), at Morro do Cristo Redentor, at São Cristovão, in Sergipe whose preparation was based on the study Sistemas de state, and one by the National Historical Heritage Institute Telefonia Celular: Atendendo ao Chamado da Razão (Cell (Iphan) at Lençóis, in Bahia state. Phone Systems: Responding to the Call of Reason) prepared by the Department of Electrical Energy of the UniA further impact brought on by operations is noise emisversity of Brasilia, studies carried out by the World Health sions. In this case the emissions are usually monitored unOrganization (WHO) show there are no sufficient indicader (state and local) legislation, or at the request of govtions that the use of cell phones represents a health risk, ernment bodies. To obtain an operating permit for a Base provided limits and standards are respected. Also accordTransceiver Station (BTS), measurements also have to be ing to the Acel publication, radiation can be ionizing or taken. In 2011, TIM measured electromagnetic emissions non-ionizing. The non-ionizing type emitted by the radio at 1,539 sites (139% more than in 2010) and noise levels waves used in cell phones does not have sufficient energy at 71 sites (six in 2010). to damage human body tissue, causing only a rise in temperature, or thermal effect. VIOLATIONS OF ENVIRONMENTAL LAWS In 2011, TIM was fined a total of R$ 10.1 million, referring According to the publication, the antennae installed on towto 70 fines for violation of environmental laws. Records ers or masts emit insignificant amounts of radiation, even also show 125 assessments, 208 on-going administrative under conditions of prolonged exposure. In fact, the level processes, 49 lawsuits and three Consent Decrees (local of radiation to which the population is exposed (caused by acronym, TAC) which are still on-going. radio waves emitted by antennae) is 50 to 1000 times less than the safety level stipulated in Anatel regulations. AnaTwo TACs were filed in Goiás state and one in Pará tel Resolution 303/2002 establishes limits on exposure to state regarding the regularization of base transceiver staelectromagnetic fields in the radiofrequency range used by tions (BTS). Under the terms of the agreements, TIM has cell phones. agreed to pay environmental set-off measures, make donations, purchase equipment and undertake training to The leaflet explains that the safety level is determined by maintain these sites. the specific absorption rate (SAR), which indicates the average rate of absorption of radiation by the human body Environment-related proceedings 2010 2011 per kilogram (Watts/kg). To ensure customer safety, the (On-going) administrative proceedings No. 129 208 cell phones available in the market are submitted to SAR (New) administrative proceedings No. 12 11 (Specific Absorption Rate) testing before being sold, and (On-going) legal proceedings No. 50 49 show levels well below the established limits. (New) legal proceedings No. 2 2 Since 1996, the WHO has carried out the International Electromagnetic Fields Project (EMF Project), whose purpose is to provide an internationally coordinated response to the doubts existing in this field. The WHO estimates that over US$ 250 million were spent in research on this issue worldwide, and an additional US$ 130 million will be spent in 2014. TIM constantly monitors the radiation emitted from its BTSs, so as to ensure that these structures are safe for public. The calculations and measurements take into account the cases of shared BTS, where the technical parameters of the transceivers and antennae of other operators are evaluated. TIM PARTICIPAÇÕES: Sustainability Report 2011 22 Sustainability Energy MATERIALS The energy consumed at TIM is essentially obtained from TIM monitors paper consumption on four fronts: internal the electricity grid, which accounts for 95% of the total. use, bags, marketing and bills. Of this total, 90.3% is ForThe remaining energy is consumed by own fleet and by est Stewardship Council (FSC)-certified paper, 9.4% recypower generators. cled paper, while less than 1% is plain white paper. Direct energy consumption (GJ)¹ 2010 2011 The billings department is the largest consumer of paper, Gasoline 41,054 38,380 as invoices are sent to customers: in 2011, this department Diesel – Vehicles 1,277 1,110 consumed 1,068 metric tons of paper. To reduce this conDiesel – Generators 7,383 10,434 sumption, TIM began a campaign to encourage subscribTotal 49,714 49,924 ers to accept the summarized invoice format. Text messagINDirect energy consumption (GJ)¹ 2010 2011 ing, the Customer Relationship Center and the website are Electricity 1,030,696 1,246,698 all used to request customers to reduce wastage of paper, Total energy used 1,080,410 1,296,622 advising them that by opting for the summarized model, all the information available on the full invoice can be con¹The conversion values of the 2011 National Energy Balance Sheet were used to calculate the consumption in gigajoules. sulted in the exclusive area of the website. The number of summary invoices rose by 405% between 2010 and 2011. The base transceiver stations (BTS) have generators to TIM has a policy for reducing consumption and the cost ensure that the services function in case of blackouts. In of paper since 2006. This policy aims to substitute print2011, the use of diesel in these generators (direct enerers, fax machines, scanners and photocopiers with multigy) rose, as they were employed in cases of blackouts and functional equipment. At the end of 2011, all branches had for network equipment maintenance. The growth in indiimplemented this policy. Internally, the company is pursurect energy consumption arose primarily from the inclusion ing an awareness campaign in favor of the rational use and in 2011 of consumption data for Intelig and new industrial disposal of paper, including a printing policy – printing on buildings, sites and network equipment. both sides and in black and white. By applying this measure at all branches, it saved on paper and toner. TIM’s objective is to eliminate wastage in energy consumption. The company has invested in restructuring processes and in technology, so as to achieve maximum energy efficiency. With this in mind, 2011 saw the network area implement the Modernization and Swap Project, substituting access equipment (BTS) with more modern, less energy-hungry models. During the year, 2,955 access points were modernized, with swaps at 1,223, making total savings of 4.6 million kW for the year. The eco-efficiency indicator in energy is an important means for TIM Celular to monitor energy consumption. This indicator lists the quantity of bits transmitted (voice and data traffic) with the energy consumed (fossil fuels and electricity consumed in delivering these services). In relation to the last quarter of 2010, this indicator showed growth of approximately 50%, representing gains in eco-efficiency. paper consumption 2010 2011 Material Total ratio of recycled material to Total ratio of recycled material to consumed (kg) the total consumed (kg) the total Recycled paper 283,878 18.23% 197,240,70 9.4% FSC paper 1,272,061 81.72% 1,894,640,92 90.3% White paper 753 0.05% 6,313,29 0.3% Total 1,556,692 100% 2,098,194,91 100% TIM PARTICIPAÇÕES: Sustainability Report 2011 23 Sustainability TIM operates in an industry responsible for generating a WASTE MANAGEMENT considerable volume of electronic garbage. That is why developed the “Recarregue o Planeta” (Recharging the TIM strives for minimal production of waste, while encourPlanet) and the “Papa-pilhas” (Used Battery Drop-Off) proaging selective collection, recovery and recycling in activigrams (the latter in partnership with Banco Santander), ties. The company is also active in preventing post-conwhose purpose is to collect discarded batteries and handsumption damage by developing programs for the collecsets and other accessories. In 2010, TIM collected 16 mettion and environmentally correct final disposal of products ric tons of electronic garbage, exceeding the target of 12 and inputs with a potential impact on the environment. metric tons. For 2012, the target is to collect 13 metric tons. Of the material collected, 827 kilos were exported to waste generated Belgium, where companies ensure proper disposal. Total waste generated 2010 2011 Hazardous 238.16 176.44 Non-hazardous 864.20 748.06 Total 1.102.36 924.50 WATER AND EFFLUENTS The activities at TIM are not water-intensive. Therefore waIn 2011, the company generated 924.5 metric tons of ter consumption has no major impact on the availability of waste, of which 176.44 were hazardous and 748.6 nonthis resource. TIM draws water primarily from the urban hazardous waste. supply network, while an insignificant portion is captured from rainwater. The administrative buildings employ selective collection, separating organic garbage which is allocated for public Nevertheless, the company engages in initiatives to reduce collection under the responsibility of the municipalities. Rewater consumption in its operations through measures such usable and recyclable garbage is shipped to cooperatives, as adaptation works and constant monitoring and inspeccompanies or the public collection company registered with tion of bathrooms and pantries, so as to avoid water leaks, the regional office. in addition to installing more efficient equipment in bathrooms (taps with timers and toilets with tanks attached). In 2011, TIM recycled 55% of office-generated waste, Also in 2011 TIM carried out programs to raise employee meeting the established target. For 2012, the commitment awareness of the rational consumption of water resources. is to recycle 58% of the total volume, besides recycling 40% of the plastic cups used at these locations. Hazardous Total water consumption rose by 5.14% between 2010 and waste produced at the administrative office is for the most 2011. The volume of water stored under the rainwater cappart returned to the manufacturers or forwarded to contracture project at the office in Rio de Janeiro also rose in relators for proper disposal. Hazardous waste produced by the tion to the previous year (106.43%). This variance was due network, such as batteries and items of equipment, is reto higher volumes of rainfall in the city. TIM has a project to turned to the manufacturers. capture rainwater for re-use in the gardens, in flush toilets and cleaning the yard. But there is no initiative for treating The lower volume of hazardous waste can be attributed to effluents for subsequent use. changing the batteries of the TIM network antennae, which occurs from time to time and varies according to the life cycle of these batteries. In 2011, insufficient quantities of water consumption (m³) these items of equipment were accumulated for return to 2010 2011 the manufacturers. Thus, TIM expects to eliminate this Captured from own sources¹ 272 562 material in 2012. Supply networks 170,066 178,535 Total 170,338 179,097 Non-hazardous network waste is the result of garbage pro¹Volume captured at the regional office of TIM RJ, at São Cristóvão (RJ) duced during building work at the sites (locations where (rainwater). base transceiver stations and network monitoring centrals are concentrated). There was a reduction in the volume of In the case of effluents, the entire volume produced by non-hazardous waste produced during this period, since TIM is channeled to the public sewage network in the citthe building work is in the final stages, generating a lower ies where TIM operates, who are responsible for treating volume of waste. effluents. TIM does not engage in disposals with a high environmental impact, and no water course is significantly affected. In 2011 there were no reports of any kind of significant spillages. TIM PARTICIPAÇÕES: Sustainability Report 2011 24 Sustainability 2010 (R$ 2011 (R$ Distribution of value added ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE Personnel and charges thousands) 503,543 thousands) 519,302 Salaries 318,093 350,613 In spite of the acquisition of TIM Fiber, in November 2011, Social security charges 35,850 36,945 subscriber base-related information and the statement of Private pension scheme 7,542 -796 income for the year refer only to the operations of TIM and Benefits 108,396 97,833 Intelig. The value added statements, however, include TIM Profit sharing 33,662 34,707 Fiber data. Government 4,297,729 7,371,006 Taxes, fees and contribution taxes, 4,297,729 7,371,006 The TIM subscriber base rose to 64.1 million users in net of subsidies (exemptions) 2011, growth of 56% in relation to 2009 and 25.6% in reFinancing 1,255,590 1,421,439 lation to 2010. Gross additions amounted to 39.8 million, Interest and leases 1,255,590 1,421,439 with the net figure setting an all-time record of 13.1 milShareholders 496,611 304,292 lion new users. Interest on shareholders equity 496,611 304,292 and dividends Furthermore, revenues at TIM have risen by 25% over Retentions 1,715,104 976,936 the last three years, justifying the position as the fastestEarnings retained for the six1,715,104 976,936 month period growing company in the industry. Net revenues for 2011 Value added to be distributed (G) 8,268,577 10,592,975 stood at R$ 17.1 billion, annual growth of 18%. Net income was R$ 1.285 billion, 66% higher than the organic income for 2010. Financial benefits received from the government One of the highlights of the period was the sharp in2010 (R$ 2011 (R$ crease in profitability, amid intense commercial and marCategory thousands) thousands) keting activity. As a result, Ebitda stood at R$ 4,628 milRebates on taxes and fees 36,663 142,039 lion, an increase of 10.4% or the year. The Ebitda margin was 27.1%. Further information about the TIM shareholder structure can be found in the TIM Annual Report 2011” Value added statements (including TIM Fiber, in 2011) 2010 (R$ 2011 (R$ Value generated thousands) thousands) Staff profile (A) Revenue 18,622,780 22,239,785 (B) Goods and services acquired from (8,059,261) (9,951,053) TIM not only seeks to enhance the opportunities for custhird parties tomers, but also those of the entire staff complement. TIM Costs of services rendered and goods (4,982,366) (6,544,679) sold strives to encourage professional development by fostering Materials, energy, outsourced services (3,076,895) (3,406,374) talent and maintaining a health working environment open and others to new ideas based on respect, trust and transparency. (C) Gross value added (A B) 10,563,519 12,288,732 (D) Retentions (depreciation and (2,993,461) (2,569,767) The company ensures respect for the rights of freedom of amortization) association and collective bargaining, in line with current (E) Net value added (C D) 7,570,058 9,718,965 Brazilian legislation, while the hallmarks of how it oper(F) Transfers 698,519 874,010 Equity pick-up ates in terms of labor relations include the principles of the Income from equity interests Global Compact, the arrangements of the International LaFinancial revenues bor Organization (ILO), ratified by Brazil, and the TIM So(G) Value added to be distributed (E+F) 8,268,577 10,592,975 cial Responsibility Policy. All employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements. TIM PARTICIPAÇÕES: Sustainability Report 2011 25 Sustainability At the close of 2011, the staff complement at TIM stood All company employees enjoy a full working day. at 10,832, of whom 10,266 were employees, 270 apprentices, 278 interns and 18 outsourced administration personnel. Employee per time of service with the company Total: 10,814 Around 75% of staff have been with the company for less 19 34 than five years, while approximately 8% have been with 775 the company for more than ten years. 3,515 1,886 Total employees by type of involvement with the company 2010 2011 Employees¹ 10,138 10,266 Interns 177 278 Apprentices 218 270 4,585 Total number of staff 10,533 10,814 Outsourced personnel – 26 18 Up to 1 year From 10 to 20 years Administration From 1 to 5 years From 20 to 30 years Total employees 10,559 10,832 From 5 to 10 years Over 30 years ¹Data representing total of employees with indeterminate period contracts. Employees by region 2010 2011 Turnover rate¹ 2010 2011 PA, AM, MA, AP and RR 240 236 Voluntary 15.7% 23.5% DF, GO, TO, MT, MS, RO and AC 304 283 Involuntary 13.5% 19.3% PE, AL, PB, RN, CE and PI 1,860 1,869 Total 29.2% 42.8% MG, BA and SE 401 413 ¹Calculation based on the number of dismissals for the period, divided by SP, RJ and ES 5,866 6,105 the total number of employees from the previous year. PR, SC and RS 1,467 1,360 Total 10,138 10,266 In 2011, 4,394 employees left the company. Resignations were responsible for 54% of this total. The same period saw 4,522 hires, the majority being persons of up to 35 years of age (91.6%) and women (63.7%). In December 2011, TIM was party to 8,156 on-going labor lawsuits. During the year, 1,890 cases were closed, of which 1,663 at no cost to the company and 227 accounting for expenditures of R$ 798,000. TIM PARTICIPAÇÕES: Sustainability Report 2011 26 Sustainability SALARIES The lowest salary paid by TIM is defined on a regional basis, according to collective bargaining agreements as shown in the following table. Local minimum Lowest salary Percentage of employees Ratio in relation to salary paid receiving the lowest salary the local minimum SP R$ 622.00* R$ 661.00 22.8% 6% RJ R$ 731.43 R$ 615.00 13.9% -16% ES R$ 622.00* R$ 865.00 5.9% 39% PR R$ 736.00 R$ 596.00 24.5% -19% SC R$ 660.00 R$ 816.00 1.3% 24% RS R$ 622.00* R$ 835.00 4.9% 34% DF. GO. TO. MT. MS. RO R$ 622.00* R$ 835.00 1.1% 34% and AC MG. BA and SE R$ 622.00* R$ 785.00 0.7% 26% PE. AL. PB. RN. CE and PI R$ 622.00* R$ 582.00 33.2% -6% PA. AM. MA. AP and RR R$ 622.00* R$ 699.00 0.8% 12% *National minimum salary. As TIM is signatory to collective agreements in every region, no employee is subject to the local minimum salary, Employees by skin color/race 1% as this amount is only applicable in locations where no collective agreement exists. Therefore the salary parameter to be taken into account is the local salary floor (the amount 28% agreed under collective bargaining), and under these conditions TIM has no employees receiving less than the salary floor. 4% 67% Internally, the difference between the highest and the lowest salaries paid by the company is 57.86 times, taking into account the average compensation among the executive officers. This represents a reduction of 7% over the previWhite Afro-Brazilian ous year. Brown-skinned Asian, Natives and Not informed Respect for diversity and anti-discrimination measures TIM considers diversity a value to be fostered as a means of encouraging innovative thinking, while creating equal opportunities for everyone. That is why the company conEmployees by education level demns any form of negative or embarrassing discrimina5,337 tion in the work environment. In 2011, the company began 4,504 an intranet and internal television campaign to raise employee awareness about the importance of maintaining a diversified staff complement. Most of the employees at TIM are white Caucasian. Non-white employees (Afro-Brazil738 ians + brown-skinned) account for 32% of staff. This infor235 mation is gathered from personal statements when the employee is hired. Elementary school Employees by gender Men Women High School Officers 41 3 Post-Secondary Education Managers 429 217 Graduate/Master’s/Doctorate Professionals 1,926 1,613 Relationship/fraud consultants 968 3,068 Sales force/store employees 964 1,037 Interns 156 122 Apprentices 89 181 Total 4,573 6,241 TIM PARTICIPAÇÕES: Sustainability Report 2011 27 Sustainability The salary policy at TIM reflects prevailing market practicfinal RATIO es. The company is also working to reduce the difference CRC 2010 2011 in earnings between men and women. For example: the Executives/Managers 1.30 1.19 salary ratio between male and female officers and managRelationship consultants 0.97 0.97 ers was reduced in the CRC, remaining the same in the HOLDING COMPANIES case of professionals. AND REGIONAL OFFICES Executives/Managers 1.27 1.31 At Headquarter and the regional offices, there was a slight Professionals 1.2 1.16 reduction between the salaries of male and female profesSales force/store employees 0.6 1.38 sionals, and a slightly higher difference in salaries among Note. 1: nominal salary is the fixed amount paid to an employee for performing managerial staff (managers and officers), where the numtheir duties. This does not include additional compensation, such as time of service, overtime, bonuses, benefit payments or any other additional allowances. ber of male professionals is still greater. Note. 2: amounts higher than 1 indicate that male salaries are higher than female. Amounts of less than 1 indicate the opposite: women have higher salaries RATIO OF NOMINAL MALE AND FEMALE SALARIES BENEFITS TIM provides employees with an extensive range of benefits. Regardless of the operational unit where they work, HOLDING COMPANIES AND REGIONAL OFFICES the list includes medical and dental assistance, life insurance, a private pension scheme, meal/food vouchers, pubExecutives/Managers lic transport vouchers, daycare center allowances and a cell phone with an employee voice and data plan. 1.27 1.31 Officers and managers are also entitled to an international medical assistance plan, while senior executives are enti2010 2011 tled to a vehicle and fuel, in addition to participating in the Stock Options Program (long-term incentive plan). EveryProfessionals one participates in the company’s profit-sharing plan, with officers, managers and coordinator receiving the MBO 1.2 1.16 (Management by Objectives) and the other employees the PLR (profit sharing) 2010 2011 PRIVATE PENSION SCHEME TIM offers all employees a private pension scheme strucSales force/store employees tured around a defined contribution plan. This plan is man1.38 aged by Itaú, and all employees are eligible for participa0.6 tion. The contribution is 1% of salary, up to R$ 2,620.00, paid in full by TIM. Where the employees receives a higher salary, 1% of R$ 2,620.00 is paid. Thereafter, 6.6% is paid, 2010 2011 shared equally between the employee and TIM. Employees are also free to make additional contributions, if they so desire. CRC Besides the plan mentioned above, TIM has negotiated Executives/Managers with employees to maintain the pension plans initiated at 1.19 the companies it has acquired or taken over. 1.30 Training and development TIM is committed to the development of its staff, which is 2010 2011 the mainstay for being a creative, modern company focused on good customer service. In line with the skills deRelationship consultants velopment planning coordinated by the Human Resourc0.97 0.97 es department, in addition to performance appraisals, TIM has provided its employees with 542 different courses for enhancing their specific skills. 2010 2011 TIM PARTICIPAÇÕES: Sustainability Report 2011 28 Sustainability In 2011 TIM invested R$ 1,088,428.32 in financing formal Relationship consultants have monthly appraisals staff education and R$ 7,565,937.18 in corporate training. under the Consultants of Excellence Program, which provides indicators (quality, productivity and behavior) for the Crescer (Growth) Program, which aims to foster their professional enhancement. Principal programs • On-line undergraduate course A BORDERLESS TOMORROW • International Training Program In 2011, TIM launched the Amanhã sem Fronteiras (Bor• Workshops derless Tomorrow) project to assist employees’ children • Technical qualifications training and young apprentices in choosing a profession. Par• E-learning courses for customer service teams ticipants take lectures and chat to professionals from the • Excellence in Consultancy Program, designed fields of production engineering, telecommunications, adfor Customer Relationship Center employees ministration, law and communication. The project began in • Discount arrangements with universities, Rio de Janeiro, and the company intends to extend it to language courses and other teaching institutions other units. The company reached a total of 636,202 hours of training, but failed to meet the target of 715,000 training hours in SUPPLIERS 2011. This happened because the classroom model was replaced by the on-line model, making lower demands in According to the Supplier Relations Policy, the procureterms of employee availability. ment process of TIM companies in Brazil is intended to provide products and services that enable us to optimize global costs, while ensuring the requisites of competitiveness, quality, safety and socioenvironmental responsibility of the Training – Hours per employee goods purchased, in addition to continuous improvement in Functional category 2010 2011 the companies’ relations with their suppliers. Supplier seExecutive Board 13.08 14.9 lection criteria include price, payment terms and compliManagement 31.23 13.1 ance with existing specifications and legislation (including Sales force 18.14 21.9 environmental, if applicable), quality and warranties. Relationship consultants 71.65 85.5 Other positions* 14.90 18.8 TIM’s expenditures with local suppliers usually exceed Total 149 154.2 those of other suppliers, although the company has *Including assistants, consultants, analysts and specialists. no predefined policies or practices in favor of the former. In 2011, purchases rose by 11% over the previous year. They amounted to R$ 6,370,229,510.34, with R$ In 2011, 80% of TIM employees received performance 270,955,713.86 spent with non-local suppliers. reviews based on their individually established activities and objectives. Managers and employees hold feedback All recent supplier agreements contain a clause that ensessions and reach a consensus on the skills, targets and sures compliance with the TIM Code of Ethics and the printhe objectives to be achieved for the following year. This ciples of the Global Compact involving the issues of huconsensus serves as the basis for an Individual Developman rights, the fight against corruption and the socioenviment Plan. ronmental responsibility of the goods and services. However, TIM does not evaluate compliance with these clauses. Likewise, agreements at TIM include clauses forbidding child or forced and/or compulsory labor in its suppliers’ operations, although the company has no specific procedures for identifying this risk. TIM PARTICIPAÇÕES: Sustainability Report 2011 29 Sustainability EVALUATING SUSTAINABILITY INVESTIMENTO SOCIAL PRIVADO Amount (R$) TIM strives for open dialog with suppliers and encouragEducation 3,489,089.05 es them to improve the socioenvironmental performance Culture in terms of management and the products and services Health and sanitation 102,059.04 they offer. Sport 10,000.00 Hunger and food safety campaign Since 2009, the company has engaged in evaluations of Outros 1,061,478.73 suppliers on sustainability issues, so as to strengthen the Total 4,662,626.82 mutual commitments under the Supplier Relations Policy NB: The above amount includes tax relief, representing at least 19% of these investments. within the procurement process, while identifying opportunities for joint progress. This policy, which also serves as Patrocínios Amount (R$) a dialog channel for bringing suppliers closer to the poliCulture 12,264,873.10 cies at TIM, establishes the procurement directives and inSport 5,687,848.01 cludes the socioenvironmental requisites for the goods and Total 17,952,721.11 services purchased. Between 2009 and 2001 140 supNB: The above amount includes tax relief, representing at least 51% of pliers were evaluated. The target for 2012 is to reach 180. these investments. Since 2010, TIM has adopted the sustainability aspect as a tie-break criterion in cases where suppliers submit idenTIM MÚSICA NAS ESCOLAS (MUSIC IN SCHOOLS) tical technical and commercial terms and conditions. This The company has sustained the TIM Música nas Escolas evaluation uses a questionnaire to identify the supplier’s project for nine years which, as envisaged when it was practices, such as environmental policies and certificalaunched, came full circle in December 2011. In this the final tions, child and forced labor prevention measures, freedom year, the project experienced an intense schedule. In Rio of association, compliance with legislation etc. de Janeiro (RJ), 23 shows were held at different locations, and 14 workshops on musical education for public school Also, in the Procedure for Registering Suppliers and Lespupils between the ages of 7 and 10. Workshops were also sors, the company makes prior enquiries through the webheld for over 3,000 students at eight state-run schools. In sites of the National Agreement for Integrity and against partnership with the Viva Rio NGO, the TIM Música nas Corruption and the National Agreement for the Eradication Escolas project brought a little happiness to the Tasso da of Forced Labor. The purpose of this measure is to avoid Silveira Municipal School, in the Realengo district, following TIM entering business relations with companies that fail to the violent episode there that shook the country. Several comply with the directives on respect for human rights inmusicalization workshops were held, involving 19 groups cluded in commercial agreements. and 450 students. In Belo Horizonte (MG), the project put on ten shows. The students in the orchestra recorded the first CD with songs inspired in regional folklore. This is to be launched at a PRIVATE SOCIAL INVESTMENT performance scheduled for 2012. In the cities of Belém (PA) and Porto Alegre (RS), the students launched the CD at the Generally speaking, the criteria adopted for regulating shows held in 2011. private social investment at TIM involve promoting the inclusion of deprived groups in Brazil, primarily children The focus of the project, created in 2003, was the stuand adolescents, through investments in educational dents in the public school network. It involved holding muprojects that strengthen the “borderless” concept within sic workshops and the creation of six Brazilian orchestras the social sphere. comprising students chosen by the project. The project has attended to over 20,000 students in 13 Brazilian cities. In 2011, TIM began focusing on work and investments in actions that best mirror its core business, giving priority to Although now at an end, in 2012 TIM will support one of digital inclusion. Nevertheless, the company will continue the drum sections created within the project, comprising supporting actions and events it considers representative. deaf students. The learning process used by this drum section involves repetition and bodily sensations. To do so, An adjustment was made to the amounts shown as investthe workshops take place with the help of a special stage ment in community-related projects, in relation to 2010. and tables with rubber sheets. The repertoire being develLast year, sponsorships and private social investments oped is dedicated to the diverse rhythms of the Rio de Jawere reported jointly. neiro samba schools. TIM PARTICIPAÇÕES: Sustainability Report 2011 30 Sustainability TIM ARTEDUCACION VOLUNTEERISM Ten years on the road in the state of Minas Gerais, in 2011 Through the Citizens without Borders program, TIM supthe program saw the participation of more than 4,000 ports its employees in their volunteerism initiatives, enyoung people in 11 cities across the state. With the supcouraging them through projects intended for this area, inport of the Humanizarte NGO, the initiative sets up partnercluding recreation, cultural activities and the distribution of ships with the local government in the cities involved, seektoys and food. ing to encourage the development of the self-esteem and social inclusion of young people through workshops in muCreated in 2010, the program stipulates that every employsic, theater, dancing, story telling, capoeira (an indigenous ee can dedicate one working day a year to volunteer acfoot-fighting dance) and other forms of artistic expression. tivities. During 2011, TIM employees were involved in volunteer actions throughout Brazil. In Rio de Janeiro, 71 volOver the ten-year period, more than 50,000 public school unteers took part in the project and 132 employees in São students have participated in these artistic and pedagogiPaulo. In the Northeastern Region, ten volunteers were incal workshops. During 2011, artistic workshops were held volved, and six in the south of Brazil. in Araxá, Barbacena, Governador Valadares, Lavras, Montes Claros, Poços de Caldas, Ubá, Uberaba, Uberlândia, Varginha and Viçosa. THE TIM UFMG KNOWLEDGE SPACE This project is part of the Praça da Liberdade Cultural Circuit, which is the major initiative of the current State Governor of Minas Gerais in the cultural field. Designed to receive 300,000 visitors annually, the space is home to a modern planetarium, the only one in the state, and four exhibition levels with temporary exhibits and interactive experiments involving the sciences, the arts and technologies dealing with human evolution. TIM social and cultural support programs Social and environmental support programs Planet Hour (WWF Network) In its second year of support for this world movement, TIM sponsored the event and became involved through its actions on the website, Twitter, intranet, corporate TV, the WAP portal, advertisements in newspapers and on the radio, text messages to customers and turning off advertisement lighting in several states. The company distributed folders and turned off the lights in the stores for 60 minutes on March 26, the date of the event National Vaccination Campaign In partnership with the Ministry of Health, TIM helped in disseminating the vaccination campaign by sending text against Poliomyelitis and Measles messages to its customer base Help for the victims of the During a ten-day period TIM offered free calls to Japan, in solidarity with Brazilians who had relatives or friends in earthquakes and tsunamis in Japan that country, with no need to sign up or take out any plan, and with no limits on the duration of calls Help for the victims of the rains in the TIM granted free credits, extended the maturity dates of invoices and distributed telephones and SIM cards to mountainous region of Rio de Janeiro customers in the region whose handsets were damaged or lost. The company also undertook a campaign to encourage support for the victims, raising funds through its employees Cultural support programs PercPan TIM sponsored the world’s largest percussion festival, the benchmark in the genre. In 2011, the festival benefited the Paraisópolis community (São Paulo), with percussion workshops for the community A Study on Beauty Performed free of charge in the Cinelândia district of Rio de Janeiro, the show involved the official opening of the Italy-Brazil Moment Carnaval in Bahia To commemorate the Year of Percussion in Salvador, TIM brought together the artistes Carlinhos Brown, Blue Man Group and 300 percussionists of the Afro groups Cortejo Afro, Olodum, Didá, Timbalada and Filhos de Gandhy TIM na Estrada (On the Road) A festival of shows involving top country music artistes in the cities of Jaguariúna (SP), São José dos Campos (SP), Brasília (DF) and Ribeirão Preto (SP) Farroupilha Week A cultural identity event held in the “Gaucho” region in the south of Brazil. The company was present through the TIM Picket, with 15 days of typical activities, including “chimarrão” groups (where people consume maté passed around in special gourd-like receptacles), accordion players, workshops and traditional dancing. Venetian Cinema Sponsorship of the Italian film festival exhibited in six Brazilian cities TIM PARTICIPAÇÕES: Sustainability Report 2011 31 Sustainability humanrights AWARDS RECEIVED IN 2011 As signatory to the Global Compact, TIM is involved in proTIM received several awards in 2011, the highlights being: moting and defending human rights, in addition to encouraging this attitude in its production chain. 1 The “Tela Viva Móvel” Award: 2010 Operator, Public Utility/Social Service; Clauses regarding respect for human rights and labor legislation are part of all agreements and purchase orders. 2 The 2011 Modern Consumer Award for Excellence in These require contractors to acknowledge the company’s Customer Services – Relationships (mobile telephony); positioning and their agreement to disseminate the same principles and values through their business network in an 3 5th Citizens of the World Award – second place in the ethical and socially responsible manner. Furthermore, beThird Sector Organizations category; fore proceeding to register a supplier, TIM makes prior enquiries through the websites of the National Agreement for 4 Top in Marketing and Top Social – both organized by the Integrity and against Corruption and the National AgreeAssociation of Sales and Marketing Executives of Brazil, ment for the Eradication of Forced Labor. Pará Section (ADVB/PA). The company expresses its commitment to the struggle against all kinds of discrimination, seeking to ensure that its operations and business network engage in no form of harassment, child or forced labor. These principles are dealt with directly in the company’s Social Responsibility Policy available on the website and on the intranet. This issue is part of the policies and principles that govern how the company operates, and are familiar to all employees. Although employees, including security personnel, receive no specific training involving human rights, the issue is dealt with in the on-line training on ethics, in which 872 employees participated in 2011. In addition, the TIM corporate intranet carries articles about discrimination and other human rights-related issues. In 2011 there were no reports of any cases of discrimination within the company. TIM PARTICIPAÇÕES: Sustainability Report 2011 32 About the report About the report Maintaining the annual frequency, TIM is publishing its reFor the first time, the company held a multistakeholdport in accordance with the directives of the Global Reporter panel, a live meeting to which it invited its principal ing Initiative (GRI) for the fourth consecutive time, reinforcstakeholders, from the company’s own point of view, in ing the company’s commitment to transparency with its addition to the presence of employees, suppliers, distribstakeholders. The period described in this document runs utors, NGOs and competitors. The event took place at from January to December 2011 (the previous report refers the company’s head office in Rio de Janeiro (RJ), in Deto 2010). Here the company is reporting 57 indicators, of cember 2011. which 39 are essential and 18 additional. In addition to this meeting, TIM interviewed employees and The contents of this report refer to the activities of TIM consumers via on-line surveys, and made use of internal Participações S.A. in Brazil, including its two subsidiaries, documents and reports of other companies in the indusTIM Celular S.A. and Intelig Telecomunicações Ltda., with try as a reference. At the end of the process, ten issues limitations on scope. Only the financial performance data, were identified involving the principal social, environmenwhen so indicated, include information about TIM Fiber. tal, economic and governance impacts of TIM, according There have also been changes in the presentation of prito the following list: vate social investment data in relation to previous years. In addition to the Sustainability Report, TIM is publishing its Greater relevance Company external Annual Report (AR). The two documents are complemen3,00 tary, and in several parts of this report there are references and links to issues dealt with in depth in the AR. 04 02 05 To contact the company for further clarifications about the 08 06 01 10 contents of this publication, send an e-mail to sustentabili1,50 09 07 03 dade@timbrasil.com.br. APPLICATION LEVEL This report attains GRI application level / B+, self-declared. This application level requires reporting of all profile items, 0,00 1,50 3,00 information about the management and at least 20 performance indicators, including at least one of the following arCompany internal Greater relevance eas: economic, environmental, human rights, labor practices, society and product responsibility. 1. Ethics in business MATERIALITY 2. Solid waste management, selective collection The materiality matrix of this report is the result of a proand recycling of handsets, batteries, electronic cess involving almost one hundred people, for the purpose components, etc. of determining and organizing critical issues for prepar3. Initiatives for reducing the environmental impacts of ing the report, such as communication and sustainability products and services management, in the company’s view and that of its priority 4. Consumer satisfaction and quality of customer support stakeholders. and services 5. Compliance with environmental laws and regulations Defining these issues takes into account what different 6. Employee development, training and education stakeholders think, in addition to the organization’s own 7. Transparency and accountability perception as to the impact of its products, services and 8. Prevention and combating bribery and corruption, operations. This process will enable TIM to focus the conincluding monitoring mechanisms tents of the sustainability report on those issues of interest 9. Encouraging suppliers to be socioenvironmentally to the stakeholders, improving the relationships with them, responsible in addition to managing the more critical issues through 10. Policies and practices for fostering local development targets and action plans. TIM PARTICIPAÇÕES: Sustainability Report 2011 33 About the report LETTER OF ASSURANCE (A free translation of the original in Portuguese) Independent auditor’s limited assurance report on the Sustainability Report for 2011 To the Board of Directors – TIM Participações S.A. – Rio de Janeiro – RJ We have been engaged to perform a limited assurance en(i} p lanning the work, taking into consideration the relevangagement on the accompanying Sustainability Report for ce and the volume of information presented in the Sus2011 of TIM Participações S.A. for the year ended Decemtainability Report for 2011; ber 31, 2011. (ii) obtaining an understanding of the internal controls; (iii) examining, on a test basis, evidence that supports the Management’s responsibility for the quantitative and qualitative data of the indicators in the Sustainability Report for 2011 Sustainability Report for 2011; The management of TIM Participações S.A. is responsible (iv) u  nderstanding the procedures and calculation methofor the preparation and presentation of the Sustainability dology for consolidation of the indicators; Report for 2011, in accordance with the criteria and guide(v) comparing, on a sampling basis, the indicators disclolines for sustainability reports of the Global Reporting Inised in the Sustainability Report for 2011 with the qualitiative (GRI-G3). This responsibility includes designing, imtative and quantitative information; plementing and maintaining internal control relevant to the (vi) interviewing the members of management responsible proper preparation and presentation of the Sustainability for the information during visits to the Company’s admiReport for 2011. nistrative unit; (vii) c omparing financial information with accounting Responsibility of the independent auditor records. Our responsibility is to express a conclusion on the information disclosed in the Sustainability Report of TIM ParticiInherent limitations pações S.A. for the year ended December 31, 2011, based The objective of our work was to evaluate whether the data on the work performed. included in the Sustainability Report for 2011 of TIM Participações S.A., with respect to obtaining qualitative information We conducted our work in accordance with the Brazilian and measuring and calculating quantitative information, are Accounting Standard NBC TO 3000, “Assurance Engagepresented in accordance with the criteria and guidelines for ments Other than Audit and Review”, issued by the Fedsustainability reports of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRIeral Accounting Council (CFC). This standard requires that G3). Opinions, historical information, descriptive informawe comply with ethical requirements and plan and perform tion and information resulting from subjective evaluations the assurance engagement to obtain limited assurance and evaluation of legal compliance of the information includwhether any matters come to our attention that cause us to ed in the Sustainability Report for 2011 were not included in believe that the Sustainability Report for 2011 of TIM Parthe scope of the work performed. Also, information related to ticipações S.A. does not comply with the criteria and guidecertain indicators that present technical measures can show lines for sustainability reports of the Global Reporting Inivariations, since precision depends on the nature of the inditiative (GRI-G3), in all material respects. cator and the method used for reference. In a limited assurance engagement the evidence-gatherConclusion ing procedures are more limited than in a reasonable asBased on our limited assurance engagement, nothing has surance engagement and, therefore, less assurance is obcome to our attention that causes us to believe that the tained than in a reasonable assurance engagement. ConSustainability Report for 2011 of TIM Participações S.A., sequently, we were unable to express, and we do not exfor the year ended December 31, 2011, does not comply, in press, a reasonable assurance opinion on the annual Susall material respects, with the criteria and guidelines of the tainability Report which was the object of our work. The Global Reporting Initiative (GRI-G3). procedures selected depend on the independent auditor’s judgment, including the assessment of the risks of materiRio de Janeiro, June 12, 2012. al noncompliance of the Sustainability Report for 2011 with the criteria and guidelines for sustainability reports of the PricewaterhouseCoopers – Auditores Independentes Global Reporting Initiative (GRI-G3). CRC 2SP000160/O-5 “F” RJ Within the scope of our work, the procedures conducted inSérgio Eduardo Zamora cluded the following, among others: Contador CRC 1SP168728/O-4 “S” RJ TIM PARTICIPAÇÕES: Sustainability Report 2011 34 About the report ANNUAL SOCIAL ACCOUNTING 1 Calculation basis 2011 Amount R$ (thousands) 2010 Amount R$ (thousands) Net revenue (NR) 17,085,977 14,457,450 Operating Income (OI) 2,067,442 1,200,134 Gross payroll (GP) 626,616 587,159 Amounts Amounts 2 Internal Social Indicators % of GP % of NR % of GP % of NR (thousands) (thousands) Meals 48,245 7.70% 0.28% 43,461 7.40% 0.30% Mandatory social charges 229,425 36.61% 1.34% 117,536 20.02% 0.81% Private pension scheme -796 -0.13% 0.00% 8,520 1.45% 0.06% Health 39,294 6.27% 0.23% 39,552 6.74% 0.27% Occupational health and safety 2,747 0.44% 0.02% 2,574 0.44% 0.02% Education 1,088 0.17% 0.01% 2,375 0.40% 0.02% Culture 0 0.00% 0.00% 0 0.00% 0.00% Training and professional development 6,626 1.06% 0.04% 5,500 0.94% 0.04% Daycare and day care allowances 2,738 0.44% 0.02% 1,824 0.31% 0.01% Profit sharing 66,719 10.65% 0.39% 54,736 9.32% 0.38% Others 14,740 2.35% 0.09% 11,245 1.92% 0.08% Total – Internal social indicators 410,827 65.56% 2.40% 287,323 48.93% 1.99% Amounts Amounts 3 External Social Indicators % on OI % of NR % on OI % of NR (thousands) (thousands) Education 3,489 0.17% 0.02% 7,102 0.59% 0.05% Culture 0 0.00% 0.00% 2,359 0.20% 0.02% Health and sanitation 102 0.00% 0.00% 251 0.02% 0.00% Sport 10 0.00% 0.00% 163 0.01% 0.00% Hunger and food safety campaign 0 0.00% 0.00% 2 0.00% 0.00% Others 1,061 0.05% 0.01% 439 0.04% 0.00% Total contributions to society 4,662 0.23% 0.03% 10,316 0.86% 0.07% Taxes (excluding social charges) 7,257,481 351.04% 42.48% 4,214,550 351.17% 29.15% Total – External social indicators 7,280,036 352.13% 42.61% 4,224,866 352.03% 29.22% Amounts Amounts 4 Environmental Indicators % on OI % of NR % on OI % of NR (thousands) (thousands) Company operations/production-related 241 0.01% 0.00% 275 0.02% 0.00% investments Investments in external programs and/or projects 14 0.00% 0.00% 0 0.00% 0.00% Total investments in the environment 255 0.01% 0.00% 275 0.02% 0.00% Regarding establishment of annual targets ( ) has no targets ( ) fulfills 51% to 75% ( ) ( ) não possui metas ( ) cumpre de 51 a 75% for minimizing waste, general consumption in fulfills 0% to 50% (x ) fulfills 76% to 100% ( ) cumpre de 0 a 50% ( x ) cumpre de 76 a 100% production/ operations and for increasing efficiency in the use of natural resources, the company TIM PARTICIPAÇÕES: Sustainability Report 2011 35 About the report 5 Staff Complement Indicators 2011 2010 Number of employees at end of period 10,266 10,138 Number of hires during the period 4,522 3,220 Number of outsourced employees 18 26 Number of interns 278 177 Number of employees over 45 years of age 667 635 Number of women working at the company 5,938 6,121 % of managerial positions occupied by women 32.00% 32.00% Number of Afro-Brazilians working at the company 3,239 2,773 % of managerial positions occupied 7.40% 5.55% by Afro-Brazilians Number of persons with disabilities or special 36 42 needs 6 Important information about the 2011 Amount R$ (thousands) 2012 Targets exercise of corporate citizenship Ratio of the highest to the lowest company salaries 58 n.d. Total number of work-related accidents 41 n.d. The social and environmental programs developed ( ) senior (x) senior ( ) all ( ) senior (x) senior ( ) all employees by the company were defined by: management management employees management management and line and line managers managers The standards of safety and salubriousness in the (x) senior ( ) all employees ( ) all of these + (x) senior ( ) all employees ( ) all of these work environment were defined by: management Cipa management + Cipa and line and line managers managers Regarding freedom of union association, right ( ) does not get (x) follows ILO ( ) encourages ( ) does not get (x) follows ILO ( ) encourages to collective negotiation and internal worker involved rules and follows the involved rules and follows the representation, the company: ILO rules ILO rules The private pension plan includes: ( ) senior ( ) senior (x) all ( ) senior ( ) senior (x) all management management employees management management employees and line and line managers managers Profit sharing includes: ( ) senior ( ) senior (x) all ( ) senior ( ) senior (x) all management management employees management management employees and line and line managers managers When choosing suppliers, the same standards ( ) are not taken (x) are ( ) are required ( ) are not taken (x) are ( ) are required of ethics and of social and environmental into account suggested into account suggested responsibility adopted by the company: Regarding employee participation in volunteer work ( ) does not get (x) supports ( ) organizes ( ) does not get (x) supports ( ) organizes programs, the company: involved and encourages involved and encourages Total number of complaints and criticisms by at the company at Procon in court at the company at Procon in court consumers: 10,645,858 20,174 63,796 10,247,904 19,050 48,165 % of complaints and criticisms addressed or at the company at Procon In court at the company at Procon in court resolved: 92% 100% 92% 99.88% 100% 96.26% Total value added to be distributed (in thousands In 2011: In 2010: of R$): Distribution of value added (DVA): 69.58% government 4.90% employees 51.98% government 6.09% employees 2.87% shareholders 13.42% third parties 6.01% shareholders 15.19% third parties 9.22% retained 20.74% retained TIM PARTICIPAÇÕES: Sustainability Report 2011 36 gri index gri index PROFILE Indicator DESCRIPTION Page 4. Governance, Commitments and Engagement 1. Strategy and Analysis 4.1 Governance structure of the organization, 11 including committees under the highest 1.1 Message from the Management 1 governance body 1.2 Description of the key impacts, risks and 1, 12 and 21 4.2 Chair of the highest governance body. 11 opportunities 4.3 Independent or non executive members of 11 2. Organizational Profile the highest governance body 2.1 Name of the organization 2 4.4 Mechanisms for shareholders and 5 2.2 Primary brands, products and/or services 3 employees to make recommendations 2.3 Operational structure of the organization 3 4.5 Linkage between compensation and the 11 organization’s performance (including social 2.4 Location of the organization’s headquarters 2 and environmental) 2.5 Countries where the organization operates 6 4.6 Processes for avoiding conflicts of 11 and where its major operations are located interest 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form 2 and 6 4.7 Qualifications of the members of the highest 11 2.7 Markets served 3 governance body 2.8 Scale of the organization 3 and 6 4.8 Mission and values statements, codes of 4 and 9 conduct and relevant internal principles 2.9 Significant changes during the reporting 6 and 7 period 4.9 Responsibilities for implementing economic, 11 and 17 environmental and social policies 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period 31 4.10 Process for evaluating the highest 11 3. Report Parameters governance body’s own performance 3.1 Reporting period for the information 32 4.11 Explanation of whether and how the 20 provided precautionary approach is addressed by the 3.2 Date of the most recent previous report 32 organization. 3.3 Reporting cycle 32 4.12 Externally developed economic, 8 environmental and social charter 3.4 Contact point for questions regarding the 32 report or its contents 4.13 Membership in associations and/or national/ 5 international organizations 3.5 Process for defining report content 32 4.14 List of the stakeholder groups engaged by 4 3.6 Boundary of the report 32 the organization. 3.7 State any specific limitations on the scope 32 4.15 Basis for identification and selection of 4 and 32 or limit of the report stakeholders with whom to engage. 3.8 Basis for reporting 32 4.16 Approaches to stakeholder engagement 4 and 32 3.9 Data measurement techniques and bases 32 4.17 Key topics and concerns that have been 32 of calculations raised through stakeholder engagement 3.10 Restatements of information provided in 32 earlier reports 3.11 Significant changes in the scope, boundary 32 or measurement methods applied in the report. 3.12 Table identifying the location of the 36 information in the report. 3.13 Policy and current practice regarding 33 obtaining external assurance for the report TIM PARTICIPAÇÕES: Sustainability Report 2011 37 gri index Management Approach Aspectos Page Energy EC Economic Performance 24 EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary 22 8 Essential energy source EN Environmental Performance 18 EN4 Indirect energy consumption by 22 8 LA Social and Labor Performance 24 Essential primary energy source HR Human Rights 31 EN5 Energy saved due to conservation and 22 7, 8 and 9 SO Society 10 and 11 Additional efficiency improvements PR Product responsibility 13 and 21 EN6 Initiatives to supply low-energy 20 and 22 7, 8 and 9 Additional consumption products and services water EN8 Total water withdrawal by source 23 8 Performance Indicators Essential EN9 Water sources significantly affected by 23 8 Economic performance Additional withdrawal of water global EN10 Percentage and total volume of water 23 Indicator DESCRIPTION Page COMPACT Additional recycled and reused EC1 Direct economic value generated and 24 Biodiversity Essential distributed EN11 Location and size of the land owned 21 EC2 Financial implications and other risks 18 and 20 7 and 8 Essential Essential and opportunities because of climate change EN12 Significant impacts of activities, 21 Essential products and services on biodiversity EC3 Cover for obligations under the benefit 27 Essential pension plan Emissions, effluents, and waste EC4 Significant financial assistance 24 EN16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse 19 8 Essential received from government. Essential gas emissions Market presence EN17 Other relevant indirect greenhouse 19 8 Essential gas emissions EC5 Range of ratios of standard entry level 26 6 Additional wage compared to local minimum EN18 Initiatives for reducing greenhouse 20 7, 8 and 9 wage Additional gas emissions and the reductions obtained EC6 Policies, practices and proportion of 28 Essential spending on locally-based suppliers EN19 Emissions of ozone-depleting 20 8 Essential substances EC7 Local hiring of employees 17 6 Essential EN21 Total water discharge by quality and 23 8 Essential destination Indirect economic impacts EN22 Total weight of waste by type and 23 8 EC8 Impact of infrastructure investments 2 and 17 Essential disposal method Essential for public benefit. EN23 Total number and volume of significant 23 8 EC9 Description of significant, direct 17 Essential spills. Additional economic impacts EN24 Weight of transported waste 23 8 Environmental Performance Indicators Additional considered hazardous Materials Products and Services EN1 Materials used by weight or volume 22 8 EN26 Initiatives for mitigating environmental 21, 22 7, 8 and 9 Essential Essential impacts of products and services and 23 EN2 Percentage of materials used that are 22 8 and 9 Conformidade Essential recycled input materials EN28 Monetary value of significant fines 21 8 Essential and total number of sanctions for noncompliance with environmental laws OVERALL EN30 Total environmental protection 18 7, 8 and 9 Additional expenditures and investments. TIM PARTICIPAÇÕES: Sustainability Report 2011 38 gri index Performance Indicators Society Labor Practices and Decent Work global Indicator DESCRIPTION Page global COMPACT Indicator DESCRIPTION Page COMPACT Local Community Employment SO1 Programs and practices that assess 16, 17, LA1 Total work force by employment type, 25 Essential and manage the impacts of the 23, 29 Essential employment contract and region. operations on the communities. and 30 LA2 Total number and rate of employee 25 6 Corruption Essential turnover by age group, gender and region. SO2 Units analyzed for corruption-related 10 10 Essential risks. LA3 Benefits provided to full-time 27 Additional employees that are not provided to SO3 Percentage of employees trained 10 10 temporary employees Essential in anti-corruption policies and procedures Labor/management relations SO4 Actions taken in response to incidents 10 10 LA4 Percentage of employees covered by 25 1 and 3 Essential of corruption Essential collective bargaining agreements Public policy Training and Education SO5 Public policy positions 11 10 LA10 Average hours of training per year 28 Essential Essential SO6 Policies on financial contributions 9 10 LA11 Programs for skills management and 28 Additional to political parties, politicians or Additional lifelong learning and retirement institutions LA12 Percentage of employees receiving 28 SO7 Number of legal actions for anti15 Additional performance reviews Additional competitive behavior Diversity and Equal Opportunity Compliance LA13 Composition of senior management 26 1 and 6 SO8 Description of significant fines 25 Essential and the committees and breakdown Essential and total number of non-monetary by group and gender sanctions LA14 Ratio of basic salary of men to women 27 1 Product responsibility Essential by employee category Product and Service Labeling Human rights PR5 Practices related to customer 5 and 14 HR2 Hired companies submitted to human 28 1, 2, 4, 5 Additional satisfaction, including results of Essential rights-related screening and 6 surveys HR3 Policies for evaluating and dealing 31 1, 2, 4, 5 Communication and Marketing Additional with human rights performance and 6 PR6 Programs for adherence to laws, 15 Non-discrimination Essential standards and voluntary codes HR4 Total number of discrimination 31 1 and 6 PR8 Substantiated complaints regarding 15 Essential incidents and corrective actions taken Additional breaches of customer privacy Child labor HR6 Measures taken to contribute to the 28 1, 4 and 5 Essential abolition of child labor Forced/Compulsory labor HR7 Measures taken to contribute to the 28 and 29 1, 4 and 5 Essential elimination of forced labor Security practices HR8 Human rights training policies for 31 1 and 2 Additional security personnel TIM PARTICIPAÇÕES: Sustainability Report 2011 39 credits credits COORDINATION TIM Participações – Communications and Sustainability Department GRI CONSULTANCY, DRAFTING AND EDITING Report Comunicação TRANSLATED TEXT Vértice Translate GRAPHICS AND LAYOUT PROJECT Report Comunicação TYPEFACE Teuton, František Štorm, 2005 Helvetica, Max Miedinger and Eduard Hoffmann, 1957
