Human Rights • Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and • Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Assessment, Policy & Goals Dulas fully and passionately supports the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. We have policies within our Business Vision documentation and Employee Handbook which support the declaration regarding: • Grievance • Health and Safety • Volunteering • Request for flexible working • Stress Implementation Our policies are implemented in our day to day operations. We adhere to the stringent UK and European recruitment and employment law and actively promote work-life balance through flexible family friendly working practices. Every employee carries out an annual stress test to monitor the wellbeing of employees and management reviews are regularly carried out. Our work specifically supports Article 25 through our provision of solar power refrigeration and power systems for health care. These products enable improved health care and access to vaccinations in the most remote areas of the world. Measures of outcomes Dulas undertakes an annual survey on stress which is fed back to departmental manager and the Board of Directors. The employee representative Personnel Group monitors and ensures that human rights are upheld. Our survey undertaken in 2012 shows improved results as compared with 2011. In 2011 the results supported that we were doing very well in all areas apart from understanding of role and controlling demands. In 2012 we were pleased to see that the actions we had undertaken ensured that these two areas were improved to “good” and the other areas retained their level. Registered in Wales No. 1629011 VAT No. G.B. 377 7317 15 Labour • Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; • Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; • Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and • Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Assessment Policy and Goals Dulas is a worker owned company. This brings unique commitment, equality and loyalty throughout our business. We encourage and support co-operation in Dulas as well as common ownership of business ideas and processes throughout teams. The promotion of team working is paramount. We expect every employee to be self-motivated and responsible, and to participate in decision making in a considered manner. Management style is expected to be inclusive, supportive & coaching, we expect everyone with management responsibility to have excellent listening skills and a democratic approach but not to be afraid to deal with difficult issues & show leadership. We take this approach as we believe this is the best for profit, people and the environment. Dulas does not use forced or compulsory labour or use child labour. Dulas adheres to UK and European laws regarding discrimination. Implementation Employee shareholders meet monthly and have full access to all company information and the executive decision making process. Dulas has a culture of consultation and participation and all employee/shareholders will contribute to major business decisions Dulas has a human resource team in place to ensure UK legislation is implemented and supported. A democratically elected personnel group is also in place who are responsible for employee probations, appraisals and are available to assist and support with employee matters. Measures of outcomes Standards and policies are monitored and recorded by the employee representative Personnel Group and the supply chain monitored by the Quality Group. During the year these groups continued to meet and a new structure has been developed to ensure our values are retained as a larger organisation which will be implemented during 2012 Registered in Wales No. 1629011 VAT No. G.B. 377 7317 15 Environment • Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; • Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and • Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Assessment Policy and Goals Dulas’ founding principle is: “To develop solutions to engineering and environmental problems that help people and the environment” Our core business of delivering renewable energy solutions that make a positive impact on the environment through the provision of solar, wind, hydro and biomass systems for domestic, commercial, humanitarian and public service applications around the World Our business is driven by the global targets for carbon reduction and the opportunity to deliver lifesaving technologies to areas of poor electricity supply through the provision of renewable energy technologies. Implementation The Dulas headquarters are situated in extremely energy efficient BREEAM standard office buildings on a purpose built Eco business park in Mid-Wales. The area significantly benefits from the local employment opportunities presented by the business. The organisation’s transport policies reflect our environmental goals and location next to a mainline railway station ensures that car journeys can be minimised. The whole business is dedicated to the installation and facilitation of wind farms, individual wind turbines, environmentally sensitive run-of-river hydro schemes, biomass heating systems and solar PV systems for homes, businesses and remote, off-grid applications. Measures of outcomes Dulas has attained the Level 2 Green Dragon Standard, which is a pan-Wales environmental standard that incorporates appropriate elements of ISO14001. The organisation has installed or facilitated the installation of over 350MW of renewable energy systems. During this year Arena network who maintained the Green Dragon standard was unfortunately ended. During 2012 we will continue to work towards 1s0 14001. Registered in Wales No. 1629011 VAT No. G.B. 377 7317 15 Anti-Corruption • Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Assessment Policy and Goals The Dulas business vision document states that: We are a highly ethical business, and that we specifically exclude trade with arms or arms related products. Dulas is against corruption and supports the UN convention against corruption. Implementation As an ethical business Dulas ensures that our business interactions do not infer any type of corruption. The organisation regularly bids for work through transparent tender processes and framework agreements. Dulas disciplinary procedure clearly states that the acceptance of bribes or incentives of any sort is misconduct and appropriate action will be taken. Dulas ltd refers to and complies with the UK bribery act. Measures of outcomes Departmental teams monitor business interactions to ensure that ethical business practices are maintained. During the year no disciplinary action was required regarding corruption Registered in Wales No. 1629011 VAT No. G.B. 377 7317 15
