UN Global Compact Report Communication on Progress 2012 Read on >> | UN Global Compact Report © 2012 by BCD Travel. All rights reserved UN Global Compact Report Back to Index > Contents Statement of Support 3 BCD Travel 4 Our Corporate Social Responsibility Principles 4 Responsible Travel Management 5 Human Rights 6 Our Commitment 6 Our Systems 7 Our Activities 9 Our Performance 10 Labor Standards 13 The onboard logo is a marque that represents the pathos of our Our Commitment 13 Corporate Social Responsibility. It celebrates the culture that we Our Systems 14 strive to instill in our day-to-day business dealings as well as our Our Activities 15 personal commitment to becoming better global citizens. Our Performance 16 Environment 17 Our Commitment 17 Our Systems 18 Our Activities 20 Our Performance 21 Anti-Corruption 24 Our Commitment 24 Our Processes 24 BCD Travel Our Activities 24 Europalaan 400 Our Performance 24 3526 KS Utrecht The Netherlands Partnerships for Development 25 Our Charitable Efforts 26 www.bcdtravel.com Growth and Emerging Markets 27 2 | UN Global Compact Report © 2012 by BCD Travel. All rights reserved UN Global Compact Report Back to Index > Statement of Support It’s fair to say that 2011 made a strong impression on this But our corporate social responsibility is not limited to the offer of services millennium as a year that will symbolize an important and tools: there is a very human face to travel. Last year we launched a period in the annals of history. Talent Management initiative, a conscious, deliberate approach to attract, assess and develop our people. We work with our people and communities From the Arab Spring and Japan earthquake to European riots and U.S. to bring back to society and to the environment the resources we utilize to protests, from a royal wedding to the unveiling of a 9/11 memorial, events foster our growth and success. of last year stood out to make 2011 one like none before it. The combination of these events had a deep effect on the travel industry, causing cuts in In this report you will also find how we continue to support local charities corporate travel and meetings and wild fluctuations in demand. and organizations through the initiatives of employees and offices around the world and the Making A Difference program. In 2012, BCD Travel is Much of last year’s exceptional accounts contributed to the continual launching a company-wide effort to build a school for underprivileged explosion of social networks and applications that provide communities children in Haiti, in support of our CSR promise through onboard and in and individuals with the tools and weapons they need to make their voice celebration of the company’s 25th anniversary in business travel. louder. A consequence of this hyper-connectivity is the increased exposure of business ethics, requiring that companies focus more on corporate social As a family business, BCD Travel strives to be successful in a very Kathy Jackson responsibility as a key component of their business model. competitive industry; but we also strive to give something back to our Executive Vice President employees, to our customers and to our communities. Last year is one Global Client ManageAs a corporation and global citizen, BCD Travel has a responsibility not only to remember – difficult but at the same time intrepid and revolutionary ment & Advito / onboard to our clients and stakeholders, but also to our employees, their workplace in every way. Some of the best moments of last year did not have to do Executive Sponsor and their communities. We remain committed to championing traveler with numbers, technology or business; the main events focused on people safety and providing sustainable and responsible solutions to evaluate and and communities working together for a better today and a promising reduce the environmental impact of travel activities. Under our commitment tomorrow. BCD Travel remains committed to supporting these endeavors to duty of care, we promote ethical business standards, security processes as a socially responsible entity, an ethically accountable business and a and customer and employee well-being. corporation mindful of our duty to the environment. Last year we taught companies how to influence and enable their travelers John Snyder to perform better than policy, including standards to measure their carbon Global President & Chief Operating Officer footprint. We created the Solution Network, a tool to help clients understand what factors are crucial to the success of their travel program and business. Kathy Jackson Executive Vice President Global Client Management & Advito John Snyder We improved our global crisis management process to provide more precise onboard Executive Sponsor Global President & Chief crisis communication to clients in times of need. When the Japan earthquake Operating Officer hit and Hurricane Irene barreled across the U.S., BCD Travel jumped into action, assisting thousands of companies and travelers worldwide. 3 | UN Global Compact Report © 2012 by BCD Travel. All rights reserved UN Global Compact Report Back to Index > BCD Travel The expert in travel for a growing global work force, O  ur Commitment to Ethical Business Practices While BCD Travel’s business practices must be consistent with the BCD Travel is the world’s third largest corporate business and social practices of the communities in which we operate, travel management company. Our mission is to simplify we believe that honesty is the essential standard of integrity in any and streamline travel services and strategic business locale. Although local customs may vary, BCD Travel’s activities are to be based on honesty, integrity and respect. management to benefit our clients’ organizations on every level, from the bottom line to the business traveler. Our Our Commitment to People BCD Travel is committed to providing a workplace free of discrimination commitment to service and innovation means that some of where all employees can fulfill their potential based on merit and ability. the largest and best-known companies in the world entrust We strive to deal with everyone in a fair and open manner and embrace us with their travel management services. and accept differences in others. We are committed to being an agent of positive change in the communities in which we live and work. Our Commitment to the Community Our Corporate Social Responsibility Principles BCD Travel is committed to being an agent of positive change within our wider communities. We encourage our employees’ efforts to support BCD Travel’s voluntary commitment to a high level of social the communities in which they live through social investment, business responsibility is the foundation of our Corporate Social Responsibility relationships, and participation in charitable endeavors. (CSR) Principles. As one of the largest corporate travel management companies in the world, we deem it vital to maintain our social activism Our Commitment to the Environment at a level that matches our economic capacity. BCD Travel is committed to protecting the environment and the health and safety of our employees. We are conscious of our responsibility to Together with our shareholders, BCD Holdings N.V., we regard a conserve resources and continuously look for ways to more efficiently commitment to and investment in improving our local and global use resources to reduce the environmental burden of waste generation communities as an investment in our (and their) future – we believe in and emissions to the air, water, and land. building for the “next next” generation. Our Commitment to Privacy/Data Protection Our CSR Principles focus on five key areas: ethical business practices, Unauthorized disclosure of sensitive information can result in BCD people, the community, the environment and privacy/data protection. Travel and our customers failing to comply with industry best practices, compliance or legislative requirements. These events impact customer retention and result in financial or reputation damage. BCD Travel takes great care and responsibility with customer data and information systems. 4 | UN Global Compact Report © 2012 by BCD Travel. All rights reserved UN Global Compact Report Back to Index > BCD Travel Responsible Travel Management As a company, BCD Travel helps customers to align their travel program with their larger CSR goals. We deliver cost-effective results and environmental, social and ethical protection for local and global communities. Our strategic approach moves beyond the “greening” of travel. We offer comprehensive responsible travel management solutions that focus on both: Sustainability Measuring the environmental impact of business travel and taking steps to minimize the program’s carbon footprint. Solutions include: • Carbon emission reporting • Carbon off-setting Accountability Improving traveler wellbeing and security and promoting responsible standards throughout the travel supply chain. Solutions include: • Travel risk management • Traveler tracking • Medical repatriation BCD Travel Mexico supports the Children’s Hospital in Mexico City by donating medical equipment through fundraising 5 | UN Global Compact Report © 2012 by BCD Travel. All rights reserved UN Global Compact Report Back to Index > Human Rights Principle 1 Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. Principle 2 Businesses should make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Our Commitment Our employees are the back bone of our business. Their dedication, productivity and experience make it possible for us to remain innovative and competitive. BCD Travel’s continued success is dependent upon our ability to meet the needs of our global and diverse workforce. BCD Travel is committed to user privacy in its products and services and seeks to provide a secure business environment for the protection of BCD Travel is committed to providing a workplace free of discrimination employees’ and customers’ private information. Security measures are where all employees can fulfill their potential based on merit and ability. employed regardless of the media on which information is stored (paper, We strive to deal with everyone in a fair and open manner and embrace overhead transparency, computer bits, etc.); systems which process it and accept differences in others. (personal computers, voicemail systems, etc.); or methods by which it is moved (electronic mail, face-to-face conversation, etc.). Information is BCD Travel is committed to being an agent of positive change within our also protected in a manner consistent with its classification. wider communities. We encourage our employees’ efforts to support the communities in which they live through social investment, business In addition, BCD Travel ensures that our employees: relationships, and participation in charitable endeavors. • are aware of their own human rights and respect the rights of others; BCD Travel is committed to providing a violence-free workplace. Acts • have a substance-free working environment, which is free of or threats of physical violence, including intimidation, harassment, harassment; and/or coercion, that involve or affect the company or that occur in • receive a fair compensation and benefit program and have a flexible the workplace or in the conduct of company business off company workplace that serves the requirements of both the Company and the property, will not be tolerated. This prohibition against threats and individual; acts of violence applies to all persons involved in company operations, • have the opportunity to voice their complaints or concerns regarding including, but not limited to, BCD Travel personnel, contract workers, human rights abuses; temporary employees, and anyone else in the workplace or conducting • have the opportunities and resources needed to enhance their company business off company property. competencies and performance. 6 | UN Global Compact Report © 2012 by BCD Travel. All rights reserved UN Global Compact Report Back to Index > Human Rights Our Systems • BCD Travel works with suppliers and sub-contractors who are BCD Travel operates the following systems and procedures encouraged to sign up to our Code of Conduct for Suppliers and Subcontractors, which stipulates our policy on human rights issues. to ensure that our commitments to human rights issues are addressed. • The human rights of our community at large are equally important. Pertaining to the “Community” pillar within our CSR Principles, we BCD Travel operations: believe in being an agent of positive change through: • Our statements on human rights issues are clearly outlined within our global CSR Principles document, which has been distributed to – Local Empowerement – Investment in our community begins with all employees and is available on our Web site. Human rights policies the individual and we encourage our employees to initiate and are also highlighted on local intranet sites and in local employee and support efforts to improve our local communities. HR manuals. When local laws are more restrictive than BCD Travel’s standards, employees must comply with the applicable local laws. – Making a Difference – We proudly support our shareholder’s organization-wide Making a Difference foundation that is focused • BCD Travel has established a dedicated CSR Committee to provide on supporting children’s causes around the globe. See page 26 for leadership and resources to help raise awareness of CSR issues more information. (including human rights, labor standards, the environment and anticorruption) throughout the organization. This committee is made up – Talent Management – With our Talent Management initiative, we of staff members from various functions across the globe who meet aim to achieve recognition as the “employer of choice” among virtually each month to plan and harmonize current initiatives and competitors, increase employee engagement and satisfaction. See explore ways to further raise CSR awareness throughout the company. pages 14 & 15 for more information. • Most of our worldwide locations have a dedicated contact person to – Emerging markets – Our partnership with licensees in emerging whom employees can turn for advice on human rights abuse issues. markets helps these businesses and their employees secure their future role in a global marketplace by providing access to training, • Annual employee satisfaction surveys are carried out by a third party technology and opportunities for business growth. See page 27 for on a global scale. These surveys are one way in which employees voice more information. their opinions and raise any important issues. – Working with suppliers – BCD Travel works with suppliers and • BCD Travel regards with importance the human rights of our internal other business partners to encourage joint in-kind contributions to staff to ensure that their data is protected and secure at all times. community initiatives. 7 | UN Global Compact Report © 2012 by BCD Travel. All rights reserved UN Global Compact Report Back to Index > Human Rights Services for our clients: We also endeavor to protect our clients’ travelers by offering the BCD Travel values its client relationships, taking great care and following services: responsibility to manage and protect client data. As a result, BCD Travel recognizes that: •T ravel Risk Management & Traveler Security BCD Travel’s innovative risk management technology enables our Unauthorized disclosure of sensitive information can result in BCD client to monitor their travelers’ security anywhere in the world. Our Travel and our clients failing to comply with industry best practices, DecisionSource platform provides crisis management reporting, preindustry compliance, or applicable legislative requirements and trip and on-trip compliance reporting, risk assessment and destination regulations. intelligence. The application offers instant access to accurate travel and security information. In the event of a crisis, a plan can be Unscheduled downtime of the services and applications BCD Travel immediately executed to get travelers out of a high-risk area quickly. uses to process client information or that we provide to our clients It monitors risk across the globe, 24 hours a day, seven days a week, negatively affects our performance, reputation and client retention. generating e-mail alerts to keep travelers informed and aware. These events can cause severe financial or reputation damage. •M edical Repatriation Bringing home travelers who become sick or are injured while on a BCD Travel has taken extensive measures to protect corporate and business trip is a highly specialized and sensitive business, requiring customer data which comply with legal provisions and BCD Travel’s knowledge of both travel and medicine. BCD Travel works with a thirdinternational security standards, such as ISO 17799, ISO 27001 and PCIparty specialist that gets patients home with the maximum of care DSS, from loss, manipulation, unauthorized access and falsification of and minimum fuss. data and information. 8 | UN Global Compact Report © 2012 by BCD Travel. All rights reserved UN Global Compact Report Back to Index > Human Rights Our Activities • Steered by our CSR Committee, BCD Travel has developed a set of • Certified Security Professionals are dedicated to protecting assets CSR Principles, which is made available in a variety of ways to our in the care of BCD Travel. These professionals maintain cutting-edge employees worldwide. These principles include detailed information technical expertise and professional designations such as Certified on the protection of human rights and have been endorsed at the Information Security Manager (CISM) and Certified Information highest level in the company. System Security Professional (CISSP). Information protection is integrated with BCD Travel operations and business alignment • The CSR Committee carries out a yearly audit to ensure that our is maintained using steering and advisory committees and risk global entities comply with human rights standards and the standards assessments. outlined in our CSR Principles document. • We have set up the BCD Travel Information Center an online resource • All Regions report quarterly on their activities and progress within designed to keep our employees and clients up-to-date on evolving our CSR Principles, which covers data protection and security for both issues that may affect travelers. This resource is available on our Web employees and clients. site and provides real-time updates. • The Information Protection & Security Governance Committee • Crisis Management / Travel Risk Management is a fast moving, includes management from various parts of our organization. Human mutating target. In 2011 BCD Travel established a Global Crisis resources, legal, operations, finance, information technology, internal Management process on the premise that travelers, travel audit, industry relations and security management review the security management, support entities and technology form a continuous program frequently. Regional steering committees define the local stream of communication and preventive action to provide traveler impact and coordinate the implementation of the security program well-being. • Internal and external audits and assessments are performed through • With publication of intelligence pieces and White Papers on topics an external company specializing in safety and ergonomic standards such as Building a Travel Risk Management Plan, BCD Travel fulfills the in the workplace to ensure that our employees are working in a safe Duty of Care objective by providing customers with recommendations and comfortable environment to verify compliance with best practices, and intelligence on destination and security. industry regulations and legal obligations. • The Global Crisis Management team coordinates all BCD Travel • Personnel are the foundation of the Information Protection internal responsibilities and resources to monitor the world through and Security Program. Information security is included in job multiple media sources: 24/7/365 for incidents that happen globally, responsibilities. A formal, mandatory screening process is used along and incidents that have a direct or indirect impact on travel. with confidentiality agreements and ongoing training and awareness programs. Background checks are performed on potential employees and contractors. 9 | UN Global Compact Report © 2012 by BCD Travel. All rights reserved UN Global Compact Report Back to Index > Human Rights Our Performance • Our systems, processes and actions above ensure that our employees’ • Our data centers ensure that customer data remains secure while stored and travelers’ levels of satisfaction and security are raised. In addition on BCD Travel production information systems. BCD Travel has received we help travelers stay informed, productive and safe while on the road. certification for internationally recognized standard Information Security Management, ISO 27001:2005 which provides a framework for • Our CSR Principles document is provided to employees via local best practices in the management of information security. BCD Travel intranet in six languages – English, Dutch, French, German, Spanish is also certified with the Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard and Portuguese. New employees are provided with a copy of our CSR (PCI DSS) at EMEA Datacenters in Kiel, Germany, hosted by T-Systems. Principles document to ensure that they are aware of our commitment to support international human rights standards. We will also continue • BCD Travel Americas successfully achieved PCI Compliant Merchant to promote our CSR Principles throughout our organization. status in August 2011 and has since continued to aggressively pursue PCI Compliant Service Provider Status. External audit began in December • Our global employee satisfaction survey was conducted in 2011, with 2011 with targeted completion in Q2 2012. Successes to date for this 71.7% of the employee base participating. Scores were equal to or effort include enhanced security technological capabilities, robust higher than the score in 2010 in 15 out of 19 categories. Those categories documented processes and procedures and user awareness training on are Work Culture, Satisfaction, Customer & Quality Orientation, the importance of securing data for customers. Industry and Survey Reaction. For the 2011 survey, the company’s Overall Satisfaction score increased from 74.2 to 74.9. While not a • With a focus on enhancing the security awareness and training of US/ dramatic increase, we see this as a positive sign and one that reflects Canadian employees, during the month of October 2011 our Information the continued and collective efforts of both management and staff to Protection & Security Department promoted Cyber Security Awareness increase BCD Travel’s standing as a great place to work and a strong Week. The weeklong awareness campaign included daily briefings on competitor in the market. Work Demands category scores improved by security topics (identity theft, access control, phishing secure passwords 3.3 percent over last year’s score, likely the result of increased staffing and virus prevention). levels in the last year. Using these results, management teams in each Region are working on action plans to address the most frequently highlighted areas of improvement. 10 | UN Global Compact Report © 2012 by BCD Travel. All rights reserved UN Global Compact Report Back to Index > Human Rights • In November 2011 the third annual Global Security Summit was held. During this meeting targets were defined with the main focus on PCI, defining a Security Catalog and Services which includes Communication (Metrics reporting, Communication, Security Awareness and Education), Technical Monitoring (Security approval of exceptions, Security management / monitoring), Risk Management & Assessment (Risk assessment, Audit/ compliance reviews, Threat management, Vulnerability mgt, Security Assessment, Certification), Security Framework (Policy development, Security assurance, Governance Risk and Compliance, Framework Management: ISO, PCI, Cobit, ITIL, SOX, BSI, Documentation), Business Continuity Management (Business Continuity Plan, Crisis Management). A security vision and a mission statement were approved. • With the growing need for security oversight in the APAC market, a dedicated resource along with security enhancing initiatives are in active execution within the market. Key preliminary initiatives include new hire security awareness training, risk assessments on key technologies and partner relationships as well as gap analyses aligning to ISO 27001. A work plan and strategy have been developed to manage efforts throughout 2012. • Encryption is used when possible to secure data during collection, transit and storage. BCD Travel is currently pursuing an end-to-end encryption strategy. Karla McIntyre recycling at BCD Travel 11 | UN Global Compact Report © 2012 by BCD Travel. All rights reserved UN Global Compact Report Back to Index > Human Rights According to our December 2011 internal CSR audit and quarterly reports… • An increase of 2% in global CSR awareness was achieved in 2011. In • The percentage of BCD Travel countries with written policies dealing some regions an increase of up to 13% was achieved. with the following human rights issues (over and above the company’s global policy) are: • Although BCD Travel has a global policy on human rights issues (highlighted in the “People” section of our global CSR Principles – Anti-discrimination – 87% document), 83% of BCD Travel countries have an additional written – Employee health and safety – 96% human rights policy in place. – Workplace and sexual harassment – 87% – Working hours 96% • 87% of our locations around the globe have a dedicated person in – Fair compensation and benefits – 96% place whom employees can contact regarding complaints or concerns about human rights abuse. Our commitment • Monthly Security Bulletins. Starting in June 2011, the EMEA Corporate Social Responsibility Information Protection & Security team introduced a monthly German Principles language security bulletin. The goal of these bulletins is to educate all employees on various data security issues such as data security in the workplace, what is data security, what are the PCI-DSS and ISO 27001 standards, the danger of computer viruses and other security threats and social media and how to use it safely. BCD Travel’s voluntary commitme nt to a high level of social BCD Travel has selected five responsibility is the foundation focus of our CSR Principles. As one areas for its CSR Principles the largest corporate travel manageme of : nt companies in the world, we deem it vital to maintain our social activism at a level that Ethical business practices matches our economic capacity. People Together with our shareholde rs, BCD Holdings N.V., we regard Community commitment to and investment a in improving our local and global communities as an investment Environment in our (and their) future – we believe in building for the “next Privacy and data protection next” generation. Within this document, “BCD Travel” refers to BCD Travel and operating units Advito and BCD its Meetings & Incentives. 12 | UN Global Compact Report © 2012 by BCD Travel. All rights reserved UN Global Compact Report Back to Index > Labor Standards Principle 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. Principle 4 Businesses should support the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor. Our Commitment BCD Travel respects employees’ right to collective bargaining. BCD Travel also requests that suppliers recognize their employees’ right to chose whether or not to associate with or establish any organization including labor organizations. Forced or involuntary labor is not tolerated by BCD Travel. This includes background of each of its employees. BCD Travel will not discriminate work on a forced contract, slavery and other forms of work against one’s (or tolerate discrimination by its employees) against any applicant or will or choice. BCD Travel does not accept employment through feeemployee based on age, gender, race, color, religion, national origin, charging employment agencies, or in any other way which confines the ancestry, sexual orientation, disability, marital status, veteran status and employee in unreasonable debt bondage. sex (including pregnancy, childbirth, and other specific conditions), or any other characteristic protected by law. BCD Travel respects children’s right to development and education. Therefore, we do not support child labor and do not use children as All employment decisions related to new hires, transfers, promotions part of our workforce. We will assist education systems, where we can, and compensation are based on experience, skills, qualifications and in providing work placements or internships as part of university or responsibilities. BCD Travel will strive to achieve the full potential of vocational courses of study. all employees. We operate in a fair and open manner and embrace and accept differences in others. We are committed to being an agent of BCD Travel employs individuals of different ages, genders, ethnicities, positive change in the communities in which we live and work. physical and mental abilities and lifestyles and values the unique 13 | UN Global Compact Report © 2012 by BCD Travel. All rights reserved UN Global Compact Report Back to Index > Labor Standards Principle 5 Businesses should support the effective abolition of child labor. Principle 6 Businesses should support the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. • Through the development of activities employing our own workforce to attract new employees, our Talent Management team is working towards refreshing our employer brand – with company-wide Our Systems recognition and Recruiting Management System (RMS) programs. By developing a customized on-boarding plan for new employees • BCD Travel endeavors to be a fair employer and to provide employees and expanding the use of technology and social media practices in with a healthy and safe working environment, compensation and recruiting, BCD Travel’s Talent Management team looks to enhance benefits inline with market standards, working hours aligned with employee on-boarding experience via new technologies and create a local country labor laws and strict rules against child labor. Each more comprehensive talent pipeline program. employee is provided with written terms of employment stipulating the number of working hours per week, monthly salary and other • BCD Travel works with suppliers and sub-contractors and encourages terms and conditions concerning overtime etc. them to sign up to our Code of Conduct for Suppliers and Subcontractors, which stipulates our policy on child labor, forced labor, • BCD Travel respects the rights of the employees to form works collective bargaining and discrimination. councils, which allow a greater degree of employee input into the company. Several works councils are currently in place in European countries and conform to local country and European Union laws. • Our statements on labor standards are clearly outlined in our global CSR Principles document under the “People” section, which has been distributed to all employees and is also available on our Web site. Human rights and labor policies are also highlighted on local intranet sites and in local employee and HR manuals. In the event that local laws are more restrictive than BCD Travel’s standards, employees must comply with the more stringent, applicable local laws. 14 | UN Global Compact Report © 2012 by BCD Travel. All rights reserved UN Global Compact Report Back to Index > Labor Standards Our Activities • CSR Audit – A CSR audit was conducted to measure how issues company will be matched to the identified gaps and the global surrounding labor standards faired across our BCD Travel countries learning and development team will identify learning solutions to of operation. These figures will be used to highlight areas for train and develop global employees to create a standard service improvement and measure our future progress. delivery across global lines. • Work Placements – Work placements allow students to gain real • Training programs – BCD Travel is dedicated to employees’ experience in an industry or a particular function that he or she is professional development, to hone their skill levels and advance with interested in. BCD Travel has accepted various placements around the the company. Training content is developed internally for BCD Travelglobe, working in close partnership with the students’ educational specific training needs and purchased externally for universal content. institutions. BCD Travel has provided practical experience and mentoring to help the students complete necessary coursework while 2011 Americas on placement. Training programs offered 1Q11 2Q11 3Q11 4Q11 YTD Instructor lead programs 25 44 56 45 170 • The Competency Modeling for a number of the job roles that cross Online Programs 140 124 150 118 532 the company globally is underway. Currently, the global roles of Employee attendance 4,054 5,711 7,592 8,097 25,454 Account Management, Sales, Project Management and Operations Management roles have developed standard job profiles that will cross 2011 EMEA regional boundaries. Competencies have been identified for each Training courses: 781 with average duration of 1,27 days per training role and the process is underway to assess gaps in employee skills Numbers of training days: 966 compared to the target level of each competency. Number of participants: 4,365 • Performance Solutions developed the BCD Travel Intern Program to hire and train entry level travel consultants for BCD Travel. The program consists of: Classroom training and controlled environment Mentor Program for operational support during classroom training; controlled environment and one month after completion. • Gap Analysis will be completed in early 2012. Priorities of the Performance Solutions developed the BCD Travel Intern Program to hire and train entry level travel consultants for BCD Travel. 15 | UN Global Compact Report © 2012 by BCD Travel. All rights reserved UN Global Compact Report Back to Index > Labor Standards Our Performance Percent Contribution to the Region Global Norm Overall Score In addition to continuing to carry out the above activities over the last year, our CSR audit of operating countries has shown the following United States 38.3% progress during 2011: Canada 1.1% • The percentage of BCD Travel countries with written policies dealing Mexico 4.7% with the following labor standards are: – opposition to child labor – 77% Europe 46.3% – opposition to forced and compulsory labor –73% – freedom of the association and right to collective bargaining – 73% South America 3.2% Asia and Australia 6.4% • Our 2011 Global Employee Survey revealed a drop in overall satisfaction to 74.2% from last year’s 75.2%. This is still higher than the results for 2006 2008 and also is 2.2% higher than the Global Norm Score.* There are many factors that contribute to the drop, although the global economic crisis is seen as a key contributing factor. • 39% of audited countries include the Code of Conduct for Suppliers and Sub-Contractors in supplier contracts. * The Global Norm Score is an average overall satisfaction score based on data obtained over the last 10 years from several service companies in various geographical regions. See opposite. Art by children at Filochicos in Argentina 16 | UN Global Compact Report © 2012 by BCD Travel. All rights reserved UN Global Compact Report Back to Index > Environment Principle 7 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. Principle 8 Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. Principle 9 Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Our Commitment BCD Travel is committed to protecting the environment and promoting greater environmental awareness. We are conscious of our responsibility to conserve resources and continuously look for ways to use resources more efficiently to reduce the environmental burden of waste generation and emissions into the air, water and land. 17 | UN Global Compact Report © 2012 by BCD Travel. All rights reserved UN Global Compact Report Back to Index > Environment Our Systems BCD Travel operates the following systems and procedures to ensure that our above commitments to environmental issues are addressed. BCD Travel operations: • We establish and continuously improve our policies, programs and • We inform suppliers and other industry business partners of practices for conducting our business in a safe, environmentally sound our environmental principles and encourage the adoption of manner and in accordance with relevant safety and environmental environmental management practices aligned with these principles. legislation and regulations. • We conduct formal reviews of the company’s activities to ensure • We incorporate environmental considerations into our planning compliance with environmental regulations and internal practices. processes, with special attention to environmental issues during our selection and management of business locations and facilities. • We encourage learning from and working with industry suppliers who incorporate a high level of environmental responsibility into the • We conduct our operations in a manner that is committed to recycling, products and services they offer. conservation of resources, prevention of pollution, and promotion of environmental responsibility among our employees. • We provide products and services to internal and external customers that promote environmentally sound travel management practices; focus on the efficient use of resources; and minimize the creation of waste, and reduction of harmful emissions to the air, water, and land. 18 | UN Global Compact Report © 2012 by BCD Travel. All rights reserved UN Global Compact Report Back to Index > Environment Services for our customers: Our comprehensive CSR solutions focus on sustainability to evaluate and • Advito – Advito provides a range of consultative services to diagnose and reduce the environmental impact of travel activities and accountability improve travel program environmental and social impacts, including: to improve traveler wellbeing and security and promote ethical business standards throughout their travel supply chain and stakeholder network. Responsible Travel Program Diagnostic. To help travel and - procurement managers determine the contribution their program To help our customers find solutions for their broad CSR needs, BCD makes to the company’s overall CSR program and help achieve the Travel works with our consulting arm, Advito, as well as with industry right balance of traditional travel management and CSR objectives. partners, associations and experts. -CSR Travel Strategy Workshop. To help clarify corporate requirements and stakeholder expectations and constraints for • Carbon Emission Reporting – Our carbon emission tracker calculates sustainable and accountable travel management through single or emissions produced by air travel and reports on this information multiple stakeholder workshops. at company, departmental and individual traveler levels. The -Travel Avoidance Program. To help customers to successfully tool is incorporated into our information management solution, implement trip avoidance programs through an integrated DecisionSource, which provides intelligence to targeted audiences approach that considers all key stakeholder requirements. throughout the travel and reimbursement lifecycle. DecisionSource -Sustainable and Accountable Travel Procurement. To design calculates emissions in accordance with the methodologies of both and manage supplier Request for Proposals (RFPs) that are aligned the Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Protocol Corporate Accounting and with the organization’s sustainable and accountable procurement Reporting Standard and DEFRA (the United Kingdom’s Department principles. for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs). We offer two credible, transparent and consistent structures to provide our customers with -Meeting Location Optimization. To address the environmental maximum flexibility in integrating business travel emission reporting impact of meetings through sustainable sourcing, ‘environmental with their broader internal CSR initiatives. housekeeping’ and a total trip perspective. Off-Setting Advisory. To provide the customized advice needed to - • Carbon Off-setting – Carbon off-setting can help compensate for address the key questions on carbon off-set partner selection and the environmental impact of travel programs by allocating funds implementation. commensurate with the emissions produced through business travel. -Travel Risk Management Consulting. To help to assess exposure That money is then invested in climate protection projects that to travel-related safety and security risks and recommend changes generate emission-free energy, reduce demand for energy or absorb to operational programs, travel security initiatives and risk emissions that have already occurred. BCD Travel’s global carbon offmanagement providers. setting partner, Atmosfair, conforms to the Gold Standard for emissions calculation, project selection and funds allocation. 19 | UN Global Compact Report © 2012 by BCD Travel. All rights reserved UN Global Compact Report Back to Index > Environment Our Activities • Paperless (or almost) Processes: North America offices maintain a • B  CD Travel offices continue to increase the number of employees listing of processes that have become paperless. In years past, most working from home. This saves gasoline and CO2 emissions as well as of our business was very paper intensive and we continually work to time and provides a better work-life balance. Additionally, this adds reduce paper and automate or go online with our processes. flexibility to supporting the needs of the business or disaster recovery. • Central Support Processes in Canada: The Canadian Central Support • BCD Travel supports a number of key initiatives that align with our Department has now completely stopped printing e-tickets. company’s values. • Online New Hire Portal: In February 2011, the US and Canada implemented an online portal for the delivery of new hire paperwork to new hires. This will save approximately 140,000 sheets of paper (700 new hires x 200 sheets) or 16.8 trees per year. focus Edition No. • Annual Open Enrollment for Benefits: Effective in 2009, the US 3, 2011 discontinued mailing Benefit enrollment packages and moved the Get onbo Employee ard process online. This saved approximate 437,500 sheets of paper (3,500 As an acti s across th ve member e globe em brace CSR people x 125 sheets) or 52.5 trees per year. efforts Nations Glob of the al Compact United AD devoted to meeting Making a , BCD Trav obligations to be sel Difference pro our environm el is responsibilit through our corporat ental ectedfor 2012-1 jects y initiativ e social The John and Marine 3 EMEA are a few e, onboard Making A van Vliss of our rece . Here Differenc ingen Foun Employee nt CSR stor help unde e program, dation’s s in Ham ies: rprivilege which bega Germany, burg, Brem d children, n in 2008 collected en and Berl involvem selects proje to ‘Glas 240 pairs in, ent of BCD ses without of used eyeg BCD Travel Many of Hold ings com cts with the Borders,’ lasses for • Online Pay Stubs for Direct Deposit: In 2003, the US implemented the Global supports you rece panies’ emp people in which send ntly prop loyees. need in Afric s the glass submissio osed es to Soap Pro ns to onbo new proje also colle cted 25 old a. The Nort hern Regi ject soon will announce ard@bcdt ravel.com cts via Telekom cellphone s, which were on offices which proje . The Boar for environm The Glob under the cts will get d for these ental dispo returned al Soap Making a phon sal. to Differenc support es go to Germ The funds rece an online system for viewing bi-weekly pay stubs. This has saved Project is e umbrella Employee an Environm ived an in 2012-13. s also colle Atlanta-ba cted used enta l Aid. sed foundatio postage stam n that supp non-profi t Around th who prep are the stam orts the work of disabled ps for a e with onbo World organizat ps for resal people ion e to colle approximately 91,000 sheets of paper (3,500 people x 26 sheets) or ctors. founded UK /Ireland Kayongo and his wife refugee Derr by former ard improve glob , Sarah, in eck APAC In July, Tony McGetric al hygiene 2009 . GSP aims Marketing k, vice pres recycled soap and redu to BCD Trave , raised fund ident of Sales — including ce waste l Australia Breakthro s for Grea and by providing members has put toge t Ormond 10.9 trees per year. Additionally, 96% of our employees are paid by bars of soap some of the from all three ther a team ugh Brea Street Hosp discarded 2.6 million Whizz-Kid st Cancer, daily by U.S. and offices, with z charities Rays of Suns ital, populatio Melbourn Sydney, Brisb hine and ns in need hotels — e, to lead ane by completi Nations’ Wor . GSP is back to member, CSR effor ng his first Scot ts. One team triathlon. ld Health ed by the United t Orchard (pictured LATIN AM Centers for Disease Cont Organizat ion and the U.S. left), base d in ER ICA direct deposit, therefore, avoiding the issuance of a paper check. rol and Prev Melbourn ention. e, already BCD Trave has raised Employee l supports more than s in space for GSP by prov AU$8,000 Mexico parti the organizat iding offic for Reclink cipated ion’s oper e Australia in the “Ver manager ations and , whose Bien” (See s at our Ame project In addition, ricas head mission is Well) cam GSP pres quarters to provide paign by ents oppo in Atlanta. sporting, donating the goals rtunities social, healt 240 glass of the BCD that matc h es family char Trave l and Van h and arts activ to underpriv ity programs Vlissinge ities for ileged n Australia children and 8 org to learn more abou . Visit www.globalsoap. ns in need buying • T  ravel Operations continues to remove paper from all of the processes month, CSR . This glasses prod 120 custo t the orga uced and m-made nization. team mem team also sold by the bers Van Vlissin are collecting donations conducte d an in-of associatio n. The to build schgen Foundatio for to help of money, awar eness of turtl fice campaign the homeless goods or es threatene to raise ool in Ha n Share; Brisb . Melbourn food and what we can do d with extin Building on iti e supports ction listed below. We are working to implement a tracking process for its objective ane supp Food to minimize supports orts Mam their decli children, of helping The Station a Rene’s; The office ne. the John unprivileg and The Way and Sydn in Argentin and Marine ed ey a continue Foundati van Vliss side Chap (Filovitae) on is cons ingen In Septemb el. , a local orga d support first phas tructing a er, employee and socie nization that of Filochicos e of The Hait school in volunteere s in Hong tal opportun provides Haiti. The d at the the MidKon g ities for unde educ i Project took ational each of our offices to calculate the number of trees saved per year with the initia home visit, Autumn Festi The team l donation place in 2011 holds fund rprivilege complete from the organized val and is getti raising activ d children. d in Octo foundatio the Moon by Urban ng ready ities thro ber. The seco n Cakes Tran Peacema for its large ughout the place in 2012 sferring Prog ker and year nd phase, James’ Settl Christma features , will invo to take ement, to ram 2011 Througho s campaig Holdings lve all emp collect moo of St. ut the year n. companies, loyees of families to n Chil , emp loyee the BCD enjoy durin cake s for poor e, support s in Santiago by eliminating ticket stock, ticket jackets, invoice/itineraries, bills / initiative. who will be g the MidFundación The Haiti invited to Autumn Festi assistanc Las Rosas, , Proje ct will work join the The e to the dest focu the Global Chennai, val. itute elde sed on givin Soap Proje in alliance India, team employee rly populatio g ct. Stay tune with Kaakkum in August s participat d for more Kara ngal, a nonvisited ed in a Child n. In addition, details. religious, governme August, givin ren’s Day non-profi ntal, nong time and celebratio t institutio which aims donations n in invoices and record keeping of commissions room for n that prov to protect to Fundación the homeless ides children unde Regazo, shelter for , and Anna r social risks children, i Illam, a For the seco . need. Emp the elderly nd year, the loyees prov and othe Rica host BCD Trave ided lunch rs in ed technical l office in clothes and and contribut commun high scho Costa school supp ed ity by bring ol “inte rnships” for lies for the different ing students the children. areas of the to spend office, allow a week in young peop ing an oppo le to be a rtunity for part of the national work force. 20 | UN Global Compact Report © 2012 by BCD Travel. All rights reserved UN Global Compact Report Back to Index > Environment Our Performance • Our processes, systems and activities detailed above enable a greater • Green Meetings are quickly becoming a priority for many companies understanding of environmental liabilities linked to business travel while major event organizations are encouraging their members among our employees and clients. The steps we have taken count to take a greener approach to their events. According to the towards reducing the carbon footprint of our travelers and educating Convention Industry Council, a green meeting or event incorporates our community at large on being more environmentally responsible. environmental considerations to minimize its negative impact on the environment. BCD Travel is proud of our commitment to the • We will continue to encourage local BCD Travel countries to raise environment by supporting BCD M&I Green Meetings initiative environmental awareness amongst our staff and implement new through recommendations to our clients such as selecting an measures to ensure that we offer environmentally-friendly processes, appropriate location to reduce unnecessary travel, requesting hybrid technologies and services to the best of our ability. cars, planning to conserve energy, reduce waste, recycle, buy earthfriendly products and to use an online registration process. • In 2011 our country ISO certification teams (for both ISO 14001 and ISO 9001) joined forces to become an EMEA-wide team allowing us to • Our BCD M&I San Francisco office and Chicago headquarters are LEED align processes and consolidate efforts. Having an EMEA team in place certified buildings will allow BCD Travel to more easily extend ISO certification to other countries across EMEA. • One World Partners ‘Footprints’ Program, whose goal is to make a difference in every community where they work, is under evaluation • All of our offices in Germany and the Netherlands are certified to the for future incorporation into BCD M&I’s CSR platform. environmental management standard ISO 14001:2009. Re-certification of both these countries took place in Q1 2011 with certification valid • Our recent CSR audit details numerous steps that our offices have until 2014. BCD Travel UK’s office also achieved ISO 14001 certification taken across the globe to become more environmentally friendly. in 2011. Overleaf are some specific examples of how our staff has given back to the environment and community. • BCD M&I takes a personalized and flexible approach to incorporating responsible travel initiatives in meetings and events programs by focusing on issues and objectives surrounding energy consumption, waste management, community involvement and sustainable transport, thus integrating events with an entity’s larger CSR goals. 21 | UN Global Compact Report © 2012 by BCD Travel. All rights reserved UN Global Compact Report Back to Index > Environment According to our December 2011 internal CSR audit… • 40% of office supplies purchased in Germany were from the environmentally-friendly line of Eco-Easy products • 90% of all paper purchased in The Netherlands and 96% in Germany in 2011 was environmentally-friendly. A 17% reduction of total paper used was achieved in 2011. • Square footage of office space was reduced by more than 20% in the US and Canada in 2011. The reduction since 2009 is 37%. Reducing office space also reduces operating costs and environmental impact. • 41% of employees in the US and 44% in Canada are virtual employees which saves travel costs and therefore also CO2 emissions. • 75% increase in our server virtualization efforts (444 in 2010 to 778 in • As part of the car policy in the Netherlands, employees entitled to a 2011) resulting in: (see updated Green Calculator) company car must choose a category A or B car which does not produce more than 150 gr. CO2 emission per km. • 106% increase in Annual CO2 Emissions saving (3,940,973 lbs to 8,142,013 lbs) • BCD Travel’s London, UK office moved into environmentally-friendly BREEAM rated office space in February 2011. • 75% increase in Annual Energy Cost savings • Server virtualization in our IT department in the US has had a significant • Deployment of energy efficient servers that have EPA Star Rating for environmental impact by reducing energy costs and reducing annual power consumption CO2 emissions required to power physical services. In addition, a positive impact on capital and operating expenses was achieved. • Deployment of a data center environmental monitoring solution that adjusts environment conditions based on operational requirements. • Expansion of virtualization technology to include other key IT areas such as network, desktop, storage and application 22 | UN Global Compact Report © 2012 by BCD Travel. All rights reserved UN Global Compact Report Back to Index > Environment Earth Day / World Environment Day Global Handwashing Day BCD Travel in the US carried out a number of activities in support of BCD Travel encouraged all employees to support the CSR initiative, Earth Day, April 22nd and World Environment Day, June 5th. These Global Handwashing Day, on Oct. 15. Posters were distributed and activities included: recycling of plastics, permanent elimination of hung in many offices to encourage proper handwashing with soap the use of plastic and styrofoam cups, collection of cell phones to be and e-mails were sent to employees with information about the recycled, shut down of all unnecessary electricity and implementation benefits of handwashing to prevent diseases at the workplace and at of trash separation and collection. In other regions activities were home. carried out to increase environmental awareness among all employees. Energy Saving More offices are adopting tighter policies on energy efficiency. The Paperless Documentation goals include opening windows to allow sunlight in, switching off BCD Travel endeavour to produce screen friendly documents that are lights during lunch hours, optimizing energy settings in computers, easy to read and navigate on screen avoiding the need to print them out. using power strips and using compact fluorescent light bulbs. This not only helps us reduce our paper consumption but also that of our customers and suppliers. “Green” Activities • CSR updates, including environmental news, published in global internal newsletters and magazines. • Mats for Haiti BCD Travel Canada: employees making mats out of milk bags cut into strips it takes 250 to 300 milk bags for one mat. Mats are used to wrap medical supplies in containers, replacing plastic packaging. After distributing the supplies, the mats are given to children as a sleeping/sitting mat. • Environment Capsule: labeled cans were placed in each break room of the multiservice center for “Glass, Cans, Tetra Pack, Paper & Organic Disposables.” A weekly newsletter called Environment Capsule provides updates on progress and offers advice for promoting recycling. BCD Travel’s Global H2O team in Uganda 23 | UN Global Compact Report © 2012 by BCD Travel. All rights reserved UN Global Compact Report Back to Index > Anti-Corruption Principle 10 Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Our Processes Our Commitment • Our stance on anti-corruption is clearly stated within our CSR BCD Travel is committed to upholding high moral and Principles, which has been distributed to all employees across the globe and available for download on our Web site. Ethical principles and specifies the basic norms of behavior • BCD Travel suppliers and sub-contractors are encouraged to sign up to for those employees undertaking business on its behalf. Code of Conduct for Suppliers and Sub-contractors, which stipulates that: “Corruption and bribery are recognized as some of the barriers While BCD Travel’s business practices must be consistent for sustainable development. BCD Travel does not accept these with the business and social practices of the communities practices and does not, therefore, offer or accept any kind of undue payment. BCD Travel expects suppliers to act the same way.” in which we operate, we believe that honesty is the essential standard of integrity in any locale. Although local customs may vary, BCD Travel’s activities are to be based on Our Activities See above. honesty, integrity and respect. Kickbacks, fees, commissions, or any form of payment intended to Our Performance induce or reward favorable decisions and actions are unacceptable and prohibited. Employees of BCD Travel may not, in violation of any • BCD Travel understands that anti-corruption issues may be larger law, pay or offer to pay or give anything of value to induce or reward in some markets than others. As a result, BCD Travel encourages favorable action in any business transaction. These provisions are not local initiatives to help employees understand the broader issues intended to apply to routine, reasonable business entertainment or gifts surrounding anti-corruption and ensure all forms of corruption and of minor value, customary in local business relationships, provided full bribery are prevented. disclosure is made to an immediate supervisor and do not violate any • BCD Travel aims to standardize the use of the Code of Conduct for law or organization policy. Suppliers and Sub-contractors across all operating countries and ensure they sign up all suppliers to this code. • We encourage learning from and working with industry suppliers who incorporate a high level of environmental responsibility into the products and services they offer. 24 | UN Global Compact Report © 2012 by BCD Travel. All rights reserved UN Global Compact Report Back to Index > Partnerships for Development In addition to the activities that directly support the principles of the UN Global Compact, BCD Travel engages in a range of partnership projects that support broader CSR principles, demonstrate good corporate citizenship and underscore the company’s commitment to positive change. Actions Taken In accordance with the “Community” pillar of our CSR Principles, we In order to support the community at large, BCD Travel offices support are committed to nurturing the communities in which we operate, numerous charity organizations and regularly organize fund raisers to and support social investments in the form of financial and in-kind support those less fortunate than ourselves. As well as monetary aid, contributions to various charitable organizations. We also invest in core our staff provides in-kind donations and personal time contributions. business partnerships in emerging markets to contribute to economic Our preferred partners also get involved and kindly donate prizes growth, implement social, environmental or ethical standards, and allow that are raffled within our offices, with all proceeds going towards the these markets to provide services using a well known global brand. chosen charity. Our “Making a Difference” foundation The Global Soap Project recovers discarded soap from hotels, reprocesses it into new bars and distributes it to vulnerable BCD Travel proudly supports our shareholder’s organization-wide populations throughout the world. The Global Soap Project has Making a Difference foundation, which pinpoints grass-roots level facilities to melt down and remanufacture the soap in Atlanta; programs that make a direct difference in the lives of children and however, they did not have office space for their managers. BCD reinforces the charitable instincts of BCD Holdings employees across Travel is providing office space free of charge for the Global Soap the globe. management team at the US BCD Travel Headquarters in Atlanta. Additionally, BCD Travel provides monthly meeting space for their According to the chairman of BCD Holdings and the Making a Board Meetings Difference foundation, John Fentener van Vlissingen, “Making a difference that can be felt by children living on all continents requires The Haiti Project: The John/Marine van Vlissingen Foundation is vision on both a global and local level. We are delighted to invite our building a school in Haiti to benefit 280 children. The foundation company’s staff from all corners of the globe to help improve the world contributed funding for Phase 1 of the project in Oct 2011. BCD Travel for children. As an organization, we are dedicated to being an agent of will raise $150,000 for Phase 2 of the school and $15,000 for a Global positive change and truly benefiting children.” Soap Project container in Haiti. The campaign commences in Q1 2012. 25 | UN Global Compact Report © 2012 by BCD Travel. All rights reserved UN Global Compact Report Back to Index > Partnerships for Development Country specific charity organizations supported in 2011: Country Charity Type Argentina Fundacion Filovitae Youth program According to our December 2011 internal CSR audit… Germany Streetlife/Maedchencafe Youth program Staedtisches Kinderheim Germany Children’s home Our global offices support a wide variety of charitable events: Aschaffenburg Cash In-kind Total Germany FRUEZ e.V. Children’s school project contribution contribution Employee volunteer reported reported participants hours Germany Kids to Life Children’s home U.S. & Canada US$112,689 US$123,394 2,446 3,248 Mexico Mexican Children’s Hospital Children’s hospital LatAm US$31,369 US$9,824 361 350 Mexico Ver Bien Para Aprender Mejor Children Charity EMEA US$12,840 US$3,141 N/A N/A Singapore Jamiyah’s Children Home Children Charity APAC US$1,787 US$1,786 N/A N/A So. Africa Reach for a Dream Children Charity Total US$158,685 US$138,145 2,807* 3,598* Nordoff-Robbins Music UK & Ireland Children’s program Therapy *Total does not include EMEA or APAC contributions IV/AIDS foundation for US Hope House Day Care children Medical Equipment for US Thumbuddy children US Niles Home for Children Children’s home The Creative Planet School of US Youth program the Arts (CPSOA) 26 | UN Global Compact Report © 2012 by BCD Travel. All rights reserved UN Global Compact Report Back to Index > Partnerships for Development Actions Taken • Eight 2-day training seminars throughout EMEA focused on client and sales skills (South Africa, Bulgaria, UAE, Russia). Growth and Emerging Markets • Two financial seminars for pricing & financial controllers. • Two Partner Technical IT workshops (Bulgaria , Poland). The BCD Travel Partner network currently numbers over 70 independent • Four hub meetings ( Africa, Middle East, Baltic States, Balkans). travel agencies around the world , each with an exclusive contract to use the • Russian week (training and sales activity with BCD team from UK, Belgium, BCD Travel brand in their markets. The benefits are mutual and the aim is to Switzerland working with our Russian partners). integrate partners as closely as possible and ensure that our clients receive • A Summit Meeting in Istanbul for the top 10 key development markets a seamless service throughout the world, whether they are in Eastern and & the senior BCD team to look at future trends & the way we can work in Central Europe, the Middle East, Africa, Asia Pacific, or Latin America. partnership. • 14 national operational reviews / audits by our operations team who visit To deliver this service, and ensure that standards are maintained and and work with partners on site. constantly improved, the focus is on training, introducing new technologies • Special focus on South Africa (to support introduction of new technology) and products &, streamlining processes so that the agency can generate • Partner exchange programme in Africa (Madagascar / Senegal / South efficiencies and cost savings, which can then be passed on to all their Africa interchange). clients, local as well as multinational. New partners in 2011: • Tunisia, Angola, Egypt, Serbia, Portugal, Republic of Southern Sudan & planning Algeria, which reflects our focus on increasing coverage throughout the African continent. • In Romania, we supported local teams on a PR campaign focused on educating local corporations on travel management issues. Impact of Partnership Our relationship with partners helps to secure their future role in a global marketplace by aligning themselves with a company that understands the importance of combining global reach and purchasing power, with local expertise and flexibility for its customers. 2011 has been a difficult year for many of them; Libya was shut for a time, Egypt, Bahrain, Tunisia, Yemen went through periods of considerable unrest. Nigeria as well. But the resilience of the network came through and we were Participants at Partner meeting in Istanbul able to support our clients throughout the year. 27 | UN Global Compact Report © 2012 by BCD Travel. All rights reserved
