About the Sustainability Report 2010 Our company is committed to gaining, and maintaining, the confidence of our stakeholders. In order to achieve this, we engage in consistent, transparent, and accurate communications. In line with this objective, we present here, for the sixth year running, our Sustainability Report. This report covers the mining operation of Carbones del Cerrejón Limited and CZN S.A. (hereinafter Cerrejón) for the period from January 1 to December 31, 2010. It reports on our operations in the Mine, the railway, Puerto Bolívar, and our corporate offices in Bogota. It also presents consolidated information on the economic, social, and environmental context for the year. The previous report covers the year 2009. In order to compile this report, we operated within Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) guidelines, drawing from the Report on Sustainability in the 2006 G3 version, and the Supplement for the Mining and Metals Sector. The process of compiling this report began in January 2011, and involved all sectors of the company. Their insight was subsequently corroborated by their relevant sectoral managers and vice presidents. . In constructing the report, we also engaged in discussions with our stakeholders, both at the Mine and in Bogota. According to GRI methodology, our company has achieved an A+ reporting rating, while independent verification of the report has been obtained through SGS Colombia S.A We obtained independent verification of the report through an assurance by SGS Colombia S.A. This assurance report can be found in the “Independent Assurance” section. In 2010, there were no significant changes with regard to our operations, the location of activities, or in equity stakes or other company structures. With respect to scope, coverage, and methods, in 2010 we made some changes in measurements, such as those for greenhouse gases (see environmental chapter); other changes are explained in the corresponding sections. While compiling the present report, we identified some inconsistencies in the 2009 report, which we would like to clarify. In the table referring to average turnover by gender (page 85), the total departures by women outside those classified as retired was 20, and not 48, and the total number of departures was 22, and not 50, as stated. In addition, in the table showing the breakdown by origin and responsibility (page 88), the figures from La Guajira relate to the rest of the Costa Atlántica, and vice versa. This year, the percentage of workers shown in health and safety committees does not include the Committee for Safety Coordinators (page 36). In the table referring to resettlements (page 74), the line showing inhabited landholdings with dwellings, relates to public sites/buildings. In the table showing performance and scope (page 9 in the 2010 report, page 18 in the 2009 version), we have modified the reported figures relating to total operational income, economic value reinvested, dividends to shareholders, and private royalties generated in 2008 due to revising the accuracy of these figures. Likewise, we have revised the 2009 figures for economic value generated and distributed to suppliers and contractors, to the State, and as private royalties. 2 Sustainability Report 2010 Contents On the Sustainability Report 2010 ............................................................ 2 Letter from the President ...................................................................... 4 Materiality ............................................................................................. 8 Chapter 1. Our Performance in 2010 ........................................................ 9 Chapter 2. Our Company ............................................................................. 11 Chapter 3. Integrated Operation ............................................................... 21 Chapter 4. Sustainable Development ...................................................... 27 Link to Standards, Commitments, and Certifications Achieved ............. 28 Our Business and the Principles of the Global Compact ...................... 28 Third Party Review of Social Programs (TPR) .................................... 29 Management of Sustainability Risks .................................................... 29 Stakeholder Engagement ..................................................................... 31 4.1 Safety ............................................................................... 34 4.2 Community Engagement .............................................. 38 4.3 Human Rights ................................................................... 48 4.4 Foundations System ...................................................... 52 4.5 Human Capital ............................................................... 57 4.6 Environmental Management ......................................... 71 Database, criteria, and measurement techniques .............................. 93 Independent verification ............................................................................ 94 Glossary .......................................................................................................... 96 GRI Table ......................................................................................................... 98 Contact Centre Send us your comments, concerns, issues, or suggestions to subscribe@cerrejon.com Head Office Bogota Offices Calle 100 N.o 19-54 Bogota (57) (1) 595.55.55 La Guajira (57) (5) 350.55.55 www.cerrejon.com Cerrejón Foundations System Bogota (57) (1) 595.24.41 La Guajira (57) (5) 350.24.41 www.fundacionescerrejon.org Icons Identify the following figures every time you find: Quotes and testimonies Web sites Since 1986, Cerrejón has been loading coal for shipment at Puerto Bolívar using covered conveyor belts. Sustainability Report 2010 3 Letter from the President “Integrating a mining, rail, and port operation, ensuring that each process is executed safely, cleanly, and efficiently. Wanting to is being able to, and we continue to prove it”. Sustainability Report updating our Risk Management System. This review includes new criteria and procedures which aim to Our commitment to transparency and the continued improve the identification and management of events strength of our stakeholder engagement makes us which impact our business. This will help us to work proud to present our Sustainability Report 2010. Now towards guaranteeing the health and well-being of in its sixth consecutive year, our annual Sustainability both our workers and of neighbouring communities Report outlines our operations performance, the while simultaneously ensuring the achievement of progress we have made in social and environmental our corporate goals. programs, our achievements, as well as lessons learnt in 2010. In addition, we look forward to the Operational and Market Performance challenges we face in 2011, as we continue our aim to deliver responsible mining. Our operation has been impacted by the extreme climatic conditions of the second half of 2010, when Safety rainfall repeatedly led to the suspension of mining activity due to safety issues. Despite this, we delivered On August 4 2010, an unprecedented event occurred excellent performance with regard to exports, since in our company. During routine reconstruction work we met all our planned shipments, without refusals at one of the Mine’s silos, four of our contracted or delays. We finished the year recording coal colleagues, Jairo García, Luis Ricardo, Carlos Pérez, production totalling 30.2 million tonnes, with 31.4 and Luis Restrepo, were involved in a regrettable million tonnes exported, representing earnings of accident and died. This tragedy, which we continue US$2,284 million. This positions us as the top private to mourn, has taught us valuable lessons about the coal exporter in Colombia. consequences of such accidents and has clearly defined our safety objectives for 2011. It is an In 2010, for the first time in 25 years, we despatched incident which we will never forget and we will take coal to Asian markets. This achievement was a every precaution to ensure no such event happens result of successful strategic planning, favourable again. Health and safety are the fundamental pillars international market pricing and maritime fleet of Cerrejón’s operation, and therefore we strive to conditions. It was a process that we learned from, foster, both within and outside our operations, a and one which confirmed our capability to respond to secure and healthy environment that will enable non-traditional market demand for our coal. Should us to reach our goal of eliminating all fatalities. To the same favourable conditions present themselves achieve this, and based on recommendations that again, we are sure that we could supply the demand. emerged from the accident, we are reviewing and Sustainability Agenda Social Responsibility. With US$10 million invested during the year, around We have considered some of the key points on which we centre 235,000 people across 266 communities our work to ensure not only the sustainability of our business, within the company’s area of influence but also the economic, social and environmental development of have benefited from our program for Colombia, and in particular of La Guajira. social engagement such as those focused on health, education, recreation, culture, Eco-Efficiency. At Cerrejón, we are conscious of the impact and sports. Further programs run through of our mining operation on the environment. Therefore, we the Cerrejón Foundations System, continue to work on developing initiatives and projects that aim demonstrates its relevance to, and positive to diminish the use of different resources by our operation, such impact on, La Guajira society. In 2010, we as water, energy, and fuel. We must ensure the success of our started off with the participation of various mining operation through focusing on the optimum eco-efficient important companies in the tourism sector use of supplies and resources, with the aim of resolving the in the construction of the Hotel Waya overarching problem of climate change. Guajira. This project supports employment generation and the creation of a new Transparency. Our goal is to maintain strong relationships economic sector, tourism, in La Guajira. based on clear, open, and coherent communication with We strengthened the SODIS system for stakeholders, within and outside our organization, and we have disinfecting water through solar energy, designed various initiatives with this in mind. The first of these which will reduce instances of diseases is the internal channelling of complaints regarding ethical issues like diarrhoea, especially in Guajira within Cerrejón. Through this initiative, employees have the children. We also involved 10,400 fellow obligation to issue a formal complaint about any non-compliance indigenous people in programs on safety, with respect to our ethics policy. We have also established a health, employment, and welfare, and we Complaints Office in order to respond to and resolve demands implemented transparency agreements with that may be made by workers, and the community in general, different entities for greater and improved regarding our operation. The office bases its work on the control of public royalty investment in the principles of “Protect, Respect and Remedy” by Professor John region. All these initiatives, and others that Ruggie, the Special Representative of the Secretary General of you will see in this report, form part of the the United Nations for Business and Human Rights. Together main objective for the Cerrejón Foundations with Cerrejón, only four other companies in the world participated System: to create a real “sustainability in the pilot project for this program. shock” in the region. Product Responsibility. The major environmental impact In addition to all of the above, we achieved from coal use arises from its utilization in thermoelectric plants, important progress in our engagement a process that occurs at the end of the coal-mining value chain. with the families of Roche, which we However, we are working towards reducing the effects of this hope will advance the process of their process by providing our customers with higher-quality coal, which relocation. This process, guided by has a higher calorific value and therefore lower ash and sulphur directors from the World Bank and by the contents. In addition, we monitor trends in clean technologies International Finance Corporation, was throughout the world. Our shareholders participate in the main conceived as an opportunity for dialogue, global initiatives for developing technologies that allow coal to be consensus, and support for the families burned in cleaner and more environmentally friendly ways. of Roche, while allowing an opportunity to substantially improve the standard of living for the entire community. Environmental Management. In 2010, we invested more than US$40 million in the implementation of initiatives and projects directed towards the prevention, mitigation, and compensation for the environmental impacts of our operation. Programs designed towards the conservation of water resources, air, biodiversity, the management of waste, land Campaigns as the one of hands care are initiatives that invites workers to take awarness of the security as a comun value and a compromise to everyone. reclamation, and environmental education were reinforced both Despite the efforts we have made, the within the company, and particularly in neighbouring communities, challenge of providing full coverage and so that they are able to apply these measures in their own settings. quality healthcare, education, and basic sanitation for inhabitants of the surrounding The Colombian-British Chamber of Commerce recognized our area of La Guajira remains enormous. environmental management by presenting us with the Lazos Changing this situation is the primary Award for 2010, in the category “Best Environmental Practices”. challenge for La Guajira society and for Our programs, in particular those targeting land reclamation, its democratically elected representatives, were highlighted, as a clear example of the possibilities for mines and Cerrejón wants to play a fundamental to operate in harmony with their surrounding environment. In role in achieving this aim. With our social 2010, we reached a total of 2,765 hectares of land undergoing programs we will continue searching for reclamation, involving the conservation of around 37 million cubic ways of improving the standard of living for metres of topsoil, which is used in converting mined areas into new communities in our area of influence. ecosystems. Our commitment is to continue to deliver Last year we also continued our work with the NGO Conservation socially and environmentally responsible International (CI), which is widely recognized for its knowledge of, mining that contributes to increased income and support for, global biodiversity sustainability. Together with this for the State while generating substantial NGO and with Corpoguajira, we have participated in biodiversity employment opportunities for the local area. conservation programs in zones such as the Montes de Oca. It is hoped that the significant economic Currently our work on this front is directed to other habitats within benefits that accrue from our operations act the department of La Guajira, such as Bahía Portete. as an opportunity for both La Guajira and Colombia to succeed in rapid and equitable Progress Report development. It is important for us that this United Nations Global Compact development encompasses as much the social as it does the economic. We ratified our voluntary commitment to the United Nations Global Compact, which dates from 2005, and with which we are promoting the ten universal principles that govern human rights, work, environmental, and anti-corruption issues. We continue to uphold these principles as our operation’s banner. As part of this commitment, our annual Sustainability Report is developed León Teicher following the guidelines laid down in the Global Reporting President of Cerrejón Initiative. This guide covers measurement, distribution, and accountability to our stakeholders in relation to the performance of the organization in meeting its sustainable development aim, and it allows us to analyse and communicate the company’s economic, social, and environmental performance. Challenges and Goals Our main goal for 2011 is to operate with zero fatalities. Our great challenge consists in overcoming adverse climate conditions, and to work on the basis of a flexible mining plan that allows us to meet our goals, especially in regards to commitments to our customers. With regard to environmental management, we will continue with our programs and our development of projects that enable us to understand our energy consumption and to reduce the quantity of supplies that we use, therefore contributing to the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions (GHG). Sustainability Report 2010 7 Materiality We have defined “materiality” as the combination of relevant facts about the execution of our operations both for our stakeholders and for the company itself. Cerrejón´s materiality was established and is permanently reviewed through constant interaction with internal and external stakeholders, interviews with senior management, and the suggestions provided by the Third Party Review in 2007. In addition, we use as a reference the Mining and Metals Supplement Sector of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) and relevant sustainability issues outlined by the International Council for Mining and Metals (ICMM). For the 2011 report, we will have the opportunity to include the results of a recent study we conducted on our operation’s social impacts. This study was commissioned at the end of 2010 as part of due diligence activities in Human Rights (HR). The objective of this study, carried out by the firm Environmental Resources Management (ERM), was to analyse our operation’s social impacts and to identify possible human rights violations. This was achieved through interviews with employees, contractors, and members of the community, and through workshops with company executives. Local employment Human rights Increasing relevance Land Poverty and inequality in the materiality Employability Ethics and transparency Frequently matrix from 2009 to < Level of importance for stakeholders> HIGH Local procurement Water underscored by key 2010. Social engagement railroad Royalties stakeholders as Climate change Air relevant. Decreasing relevance in the materiality matrix from 2009 to MEDIUM Eco-efficiency GHG emissions Underscored by 2010. Mining solid waste Biofuels stakeholders as Mining plan Biodiversity relevant. Crucial issues, Foundations system Community development high influence on stakeholder decisions and significant impact Indigenous communities Mine closure plan on Cerrejón. Generational turnover TPR Some times Product responsibility Vision proj. sustainability Health and safety Responsible procurement LOW underscored by stakeholders as Crucial issues, Public Policies Recycling relevant moderate influence on stakeholder decisions and moderate impact on Cerrejón. LOW MEDIUM HIGH < Current or potential impact on Cerrejón > Relevant issues but not classed as crucial. Is not as relevant, not Is important, applies to a Is a critical issue, applies to a applicable to entire business, significant portion of the business significant part of the business Non-material measures already taken and/or there are measures to be and/or the measures are issues. and/or is under control. taken on the issue. definitive to management. There follows a brief description of those topics of high relevance to stakeholders and to the company. Human Rights. La Guajira is a department Water. La Guajira is a semi-arid region, vulnerable exposed to factors such as violence and human to climate changes, with long periods of drought and rights violations. Consequently, since 2006 our rainfall cycles concentrated into a few days of the policy and commitment, and that of our contractors, year. This situation restricts water availability, which has been to respect and promote the human rights negatively impacts poorer inhabitants, especially in of employees and the communities surrounding us. rural zones. Poverty and Inequality. Our operations take Royalties. Cerrejón is the largest royalty contributor place in a department in which the standards of living within the department of La Guajira, given that from are very low. This means that poverty and inequality 1985 to 2010 it generated more than US$1,600 million are extremely important issues for both the company (US$185 million in 2010). and the community. Air. Given the operation’s magnitude and the use of Ethics and Transparency. We are convinced mining equipment, the adequate control of dust emissions that acting ethically is a requirement for achieving is both demanded by our stakeholders and a challenge for success in sustainability and for the success of our the company. company. Transparency is a requirement for all our employees and contractors, and is demanded by our stakeholders. We have to be consistent in what we say and what we do. 8 Sustainability Report 2010 Our Performance in 2010 We have an evaluation mechanism for sustainability within the operation in order to generate added value Our Performance in 2010 and greater dynamism in the company’s reporting system. The goal is to construct a short-term sustainability dashboard that shows the results of economically viable management that is socially just and environmentally correct, and characterized by ethical and transparent relationships with stakeholders. OPERATIONAL FIGURES 2008 2009 2010 Company Profile Net operating income (millions of pesos) 5,329,848 5,003,151 4,471,605 Total assets (millions of pesos) 4,083,014 3,630,834 4,002,543 Equity (millions of pesos) 2,925,538 2,845,215 3,319,597 Exports (millions of dollars) 2,522 2,228 2,284 Exports (millions of tonnes) 31.4 30.3 31.4 Overburden removal (MBCM) 224.1 235.7 201.6 Royalties paid (millions of dollars) 260 309 185 Coal production (millions of tonnes) 31.2 30.6 30.2 Coal production in Colombia (millions of tonnes) 73 72 74 Cerrejón's participation in national production (percentage) 43 42 41 Contribution to Colombian GDP (percentage) 0.4 0.4 0.3 Number of directly employed workers 5,116 5,119 5,204 Economic Value Generated and Distributed Distributed to direct workers (millions of pesos) 390,420 489,479 478,204 Distributed to suppliers and contractors (millions of pesos) 1,915,202 1,709,300 1,585,667 Distributed to the State (millions of pesos) 1,293,596 1,188,365 880,011 Reinvestment in the company (millions of pesos) 312,726 358,100 469,754 Distributed to shareholders (millions of pesos) 1,352,562 1,178,704 1,022,523 Private royalties generated (millions of pesos) 65,342 79,203 35,446 Health and Safety Representation of workers on industrial safety committees (percentage) 24 25 24 Fatalities (number) 1 0 4 Reported cases of occupational diseases (numbers) 15 8 4 Recordable Injury Frequency Rate (RIFR) 0.47 0.37 0.41 Classified Injury Frequency Rate (CIFR) 0.30 0.21 0.31 Human Rights and Security Number of agreements with military and police forces, analysed in accordance with human rights provisions 1 1 1 Number of contracts with security companies, analysed in accordance with human rights provisions. 2 2 2 Number of stakeholders trained in human rights and international humanitarian law 5,733 2,504 4,408 1 Number of cases analysed in accordance with human rights 16 11 Workforce Number and proportion of men directly employed 4,832 (94%) 4,828 (94%) 4,898 (94%) Number and proportion of women directly employed 284 (6%) 291 (6%) 306 (6%) Workers from La Guajira (numbers and percentage) 3,077 (60%) 3,108 (61%) 3,201 (62%) Number of training hours per worker (professionals and technicians) 41 and 50 69 and 40 51 and 57 Proportion of workers with union membership (percentage) 82 81 82 Environmental Management Environmental Investment (millions of pesos) 76,798 87,729 76,840 Area Area disturbed, in hectares (annual cumulative total) 10,556 11,025 11,488 Active Area 7,956 8,290 8,653 Area of operation during this period 700 469 463 Area available for reclamation 2,599 2,736 2,835 Area undergoing reclamation (hectares) 2,566 2,690 2,765 2 Area released by adapting 34 45 70 Sustainability Report 2010 9 Consumption of Resources Diesel fuel consumption (gallons) 85,958,785 90,948,942 84,745,591 Oil consumption (gallons) 1,612,309 1,563,431 1,439,979 Tyres (numbers) 2,089 2,401 1,847 Ammonium nitrate (tonnes) 61,794 64,145 47,096 Emulsion consumption (tonnes) 89,059 99,999 81,011 Water Usage Total water usage (thousands m3) 6,251 7,812 5,846 Usage of high-quality water (thousands m3) 2,324 3,111 1,491 Usage of low-quality water (thousands m3) 3,927 4,701 4,355 Usage of recycled water (thousands m3) 257 301 341 Energy Consumption Diesel (gigajoules (GJ)) 11,862,312 12,550,954 11,694,892 Petrol (gigajoules (GJ)) 281,324 250,387 249,650 Natural gas (gigajoules (GJ)) 36,700 42,097 34,197 Electricity purchased (GWh) 270 300 291 Waste Products Discharged residual water (thousands of m3) 1,352 3,124 854 Recovered used oil (gallons) 974,311 977,977 877,452 Fraction of oil recovered/reclaimed (percentage) 60% 63% 61% 3 Solid waste generated (tonnes) 7,794 8,973 9,331 4 Recovered solid waste (tonnes) 2,767 4,304 4,550 Biodiversity Individuals rescued and relocated (number) 3,278 870 338 Individuals rehabilitated (number) 444 779 1,004 5 Species threatened to some degree. UICN red books 31 32 20 Compliance with Regulations Environmental sanctions 0 0 0 6 Environmental Incidents Significant incidents (levels 3,4, and 5) 0 0 0 Minor incidents (levels 1 and 2) 68 48 33 Emissions 7 Direct emission of greenhouse gases (GHG) (thousands of tonnes of CO2 equivalent) 1,076 1,168 1,105 7 Indirect emissions of greenhouse gases (GHG) (thousands of tonnes of CO2 equivalent) 35 38 37 Particulate matter (thousands of tonnes) 31 37 28 Nitrogen oxides (NOx) (thousands of tonnes) 18 19 18 Sulphur oxides (SOx) (thousands of tonnes) 2 2 2 1. The data for 2010 corresponds to cases registered at the Complaints Office that are classified under Security and Human Rights. Given that, in 2010, the complaints mechanism was in its pilot stage, the criteria for classifying all complaints logged into the system will be revised in 2011. 2. Difference between the area available for reclamation and the area undergoing reclamation. 3. This includes waste generated in Puerto Bolívar. 4. This includes waste recovered in Puerto Bolívar. 5. For 2010, this includes information published in Colombia's red books, which consolidate lists of threatened plant and animal species in the national territory. These publications are produced by the Ministry for the Environment, Housing and Land Use. 6. For 2010, incident reporting is based on the classification presented in the Operational Integrity Information System. 7. Emissions reported between 2008 and 2010 have been adjusted to emission factors used in 2010. Cerrejón is one of the biggest open-pit export coal-mining operations in the world, and is located in La Guajira. Our Company “Our strategic planning, and all activities we undertake, must fit with our overall Vision. In our day-to-day operations, the way we conduct ourselves and undertake those activities must reflect the culture and corporate identity that we recognize as the Cerrejón Way”. Luis Germán Meneses Executive Vice President of Operations (COO) Our Vision To be recognized in the international thermal market, as well as in Colombia, as a world-class, efficient and trustworthy producer and exporter of coal. Our vision is to gain recognition as a company that effectively contributes to the wellbeing and development of the communities and country within which it operates, that promotes the participation, development, and excellence of its people, and achieves the best profitability for its shareholders. Our Company Strategic Objectives Our management is framed within a strategy of responsible mining, through which we attempt to maximize benefit through cost control exercised with respect for our employees, communities, and the context in which we operate. This approach is Cerrejón is one of the biggest open-pit export coal-mining operations in the composed of six principle strategic objectives, world, an important player within the Colombian economy and an economic defined on the premise “Do the maximum motor for La Guajira, the region where its production activity is concentrated. possible, not the minimum necessary”. O • Guarantee operational integrity. • Promote social responsibility. ur commitment is to develop a safe, trusted and • Improve efficiency and sustainable operation. We believe this to be possible thanks competitiveness. to our human capital, our corporate governance structure, and • Provide our customers with quality our management model in sustainability, culture, and corporate and satisfaction. identity. These attributes are combined to form an approach • Maintain organizational performance we call the Cerrejón Way. This allows us to subscribe to and growth. international initiatives and standards, and to maintain strong • Develop our human capital and relationships with our strategic allies. technology. Sustainability Report 2010 11 Location map, area of influence, and communities Cerrejón is an integrated mining and transport operation based in La Guajira, a department in northernmost Colombia. Our operations encompass an open-pit thermal coal mine that produces 32 million tonnes per year, a railroad that is 150 km long, and a maritime port that can receive ships up to 180,000 tonnes in capacity. We employ around 10,000 people, of which more than 99% are Colombian. We are the biggest private exporter in the country and one of its biggest tax contributors. The Cerrejón Foundations System, consisting of four different entities, works closely with the Colombian Government and national and international entities, in order to promote and accelerate development that is both sustainable and fair for La Guajira and its people. Cerrejón is a company incorporated in Anguilla in the British West Indies, with offices in Colombia. It belongs in three equal parts to subsidiary companies of BHP Billiton, Anglo American, and Xstrata. We have no subsidiary companies of our own. History, Nature, and Legal To understand more about our history, visit: Status http://www.cerrejon.com/site/Default.aspx?tabid=88 Carbones del Cerrejón Limited is a foreign The National Government does not form part of the company’s company whose registered address is in shareholder structure. We do not have investments in other Anguilla, in the British West Indies, with operations in Colombia or in other parts of the world. Our investment offices in Bogota, Colombia. The company portfolio in coal mining is directly financed with our own resources was originally called the International and by our shareholders, subsidiary companies of Xstrata plc, Colombian Resources Corporation LLC Anglo American plc, and BHP Billiton plc. Investments take the form (Intercor) until 2002, when it merged with of physical capital (machinery, infrastructure, etc.) and of land. We Carbones del Cerrejón S.A., a Colombian do not participate in the purchase of shares in any stock market. company, and at the same time changed its company name to Carbones del We do not seek external financing in local markets nor have we Cerrejón LLC. strategies for the formation of business alliances. Later, in 2007, it changed its legal status in Anguilla from that of a Limited Liability Our Operation Company (LLC), to an International Trading Company, and therefore its company name was modified to Carbones del Cerrejón Limited. Cerrejón Zona Norte S.A. (CZN) is a Colombian public company, with its principle offices in Bogota, which was formed in 2002 through successive share issues. This was the mechanism used by the National Government for the sale of contractual interests in Carbocol under a Partnership Contract originally underwritten with Intercor (now with Carbones del Cerrejón Limited), a sale that was formalized through the signing of the Contract for Mining Operations and Transfers (CEMT, its Spanish acronym) between CZN S.A. and Carbocol. At that time, CZN owned a 50% contractual interest in the large-scale mining contract for the Patilla area, in which it participated in a consortium along with Carbones del Cerrejón Limited. Both companies belong in equal parts to subsidiary companies Xstrata plc, Anglo American plc and BHP Billiton plc. In three decades of operation, we have worked to make mining and sustainable development compatible concepts and realities. 14 Sustainability Report 2010 Numbers of Countries Where We Operate and Markets Served Coal is one of the most important sources of energy, responsible for almost 40% of electricalpower generation globally. In recent years, it has been the fastestgrowing energy source recorded, surpassing gas, petroleum, nuclear energy, hydroelectric energy, and renewable energies. Internationally, our coal primarily supplies the electrical-power generation sector in North America, Europe, and the Mediterranean, where it is acknowledged for its high efficiency and low sulphur and ash contents. To a lesser fundamental initiative, combining aspects of organizational, technical, extent, it is used in the iron and steel industry and operational integrity). The implementation of the MLC in 2010 in Pulverized Coal Injection (PCI) technology, in included the social and environmental areas. silicon production, and for domestic heating. In 2010, our exports reached notable amounts in The Cerrejón Way contains values that give form to this corporate Europe (46%) and North America (18%). philosophy. They are: • Safety, health, and environment • Respect Cerrejón Way • Responsibility In 2009, we created a management model • Ethics for corporate sustainability, culture, and • Transparency identity called the Cerrejón Way, launched • Integrity and implemented in 2010. Within this new • Empowerment. identity, we are working to make mining and sustainable development into compatible concepts and realities. In 2010, we gave 31 talks on the Cerrejón Way values to 1,596 employees, 917 members of their families, and 123 contractors, for a This model defines clear aspirations for the total of 2,636 participants. company: • Promoting the sustainable development For more information on the Cerrejón Way, visit of La Guajira http://www.cerrejon.com/site/Default.aspx?tabid=92 • Seeking better corporate practices and social responsibility practices • Building trust with the communities of La Guajira • Undergoing assessments by third-party experts as a means of promoting ongoing improvements within the company and to incentivise dialogue opportunities with our various stakeholders. The Cerrejón Way has established eleven principles that reaffirm the ethos which unites the entire company and commits it to building a future benefiting the region, Colombia, and the wider world. (We designed the Cerrejón Leadership Model (MLC, its acronym in Spanish) as the Socialization of the identity and cultural corporation model. Cerrejón Style. Valledupar May 2010 Sustainability Report 2010 15 Awards and Distinctions Lazos Award In 2010, the Lazos Award was presented to us in the category of Best Environmental Practices. It was awarded by the Colombian-British Chamber of Commerce and recognises companies that promote more efficient models of corporate social responsibility programs in the country. Amongst the varied criteria assessed by this board for award selection, the following stand out: the impact of campaigns and training presented to our employees on recycling topics; programs and projects implemented for materials handling to reduce negative environmental impacts; the use of renewable energy Lazos Award 2010, Best Environmental Practices category. sources; strategies and actions undertaken to protect Luis Germán Meneses, Executive Vice President of Operations. Bogota, November 2010. lands rich in biodiversity; ecosystem-protection programs we carry out with various NGOs and government entities; and activities performed to reach the target for recycling of solid waste generated by our operation. Merco 2010 For the third consecutive year, Merco (a global benchmark reputation monitor) has recognized us as one of the top one hundred companies nationally with the best reputation. In the Merco Empresas category, which comprises 844 companies, we are ranked 22, which is an improvement on our Corporate Governance reputational ranking of 48 for the year 2009. We are the top-ranked company in the mining sector. Our achievements in corporate governance practices, We also received special recognition as having one as described below, are the determining factor in of the best reputations in social responsibility and retaining our operational credibility. Therefore, we corporate ethics, and as one of the best one hundred provide our stakeholders with a transparent view of Colombian companies to work at, in which we are the objectivity and competitiveness with which we ranked eighth for the Merco Personas category. carry out our activities. Our top priories remain to be a commitment to these values, our policy guidelines, an accountability to the environment, and continued For more information on our awards and corporate responsibility objectives. We thereby distinctions, visit http://www.cerrejon.com/site/ provide our stakeholders with a guarantee about the Default.aspx?tabid=95 transparency, objectivity, and competitiveness with which we carry out our activities, in which the top priority is a commitment to those values, the Policies and conduct guidelines, care for the environment, and corporate responsibility. Lazos Award 2010, Best Environmental Practices category. Luis Germán Meneses, Executive Vice President of Operations, and Martha Lucía Benavides, Head of the Communications Division, with the panel of judges. Bogota, November 2010. Our Corporate Structure Structure of Senior Management and Committees Our most senior corporate governance body is the Shareholders’ Committee, which comprises representatives from subsidiary companies of Xstrata plc, Anglo American plc, and BHP Billiton plc. We have no minority shareholders, and the President is independent of the Shareholders’ Committee. In addition, there is an Operational Technical Committee as well as others mentioned below. COMMITTEE GOAL COMPOSITION This committee meets three times a year to monitor A main representative and an alternate for each of the activities laid out in the annual plan and to approve subsidiary companies of BHP Billiton plc, Anglo investments. Once a year, the budget for the next year American plc, and Xstrata plc. Cerrejón's senior Shareholders' Committee and the five-year plan are approved. It is in charge of management. controlling the various practices and good governance of the company. This committee meets three times a year for a detailed The Vice President of Finance from each shareholder. Financial Committee review of the financial results, corporate risks report, Cerrejón's senior management. update of legal issues, and taxes. Audit Committee This committee meets twice a year to review all topics The Vice President of Finance from each shareholder. related to external and internal controls and audits. Cerrejón's senior management. Technical and Operational This committee meets four times a year for a detailed One member and one technical representative from Review Committee (TORC) review of operational performance, mine planning, and each Cerrejón shareholder. Cerrejón's senior and GERM Committee capital applications, among other topics, which are later management. (Geological Review Meeting) approved by the shareholders' committee. This committee has monthly meetings for Cerrejón President, vice presidents, and managers. Management Committee decision-making requiring high-level approval, including capital investment projects and contracting. Evaluates deviations from policies for ethics, fraud Cerrejón President, Executive Vice President of Internal Control Committee control, and conflicts of interest when they arise. Operations, Vice President of Finances, and Legal Manager. This committee meets monthly to evaluate topics of Cerrejón President, Executive Vice President of human resource management such as changes in the Operations, Vice President of Finances, Manager of Management Development organizational structure, the establishment of new Human Capital, and Legal Manager. Committee (MDC) programs and policies, or changes to existing personnel or performance. Development of talent, compensation, labour, and occupational health, and the appropriate execution of same. Sustainability Report 2010 17 Skills and Performance and is therefore appropriately communicated to all parties. Every Compensation year there is a mandatory exercise through intranet software to As part of our management level all company professional staff. It covers performance policies recruitment process, we work from and guidelines and specifically any declarations of conflicts of detailed descriptions based on the interest. This questionnaire is open so that potential conflicts personal and professional aptitude may be declared at any time and evaluated by the Internal expected for each position. This allows Control Committee. us to have specialized knowledge and a strategic vision of the business. In addition, Maximum Integrity Path within the key performance indicators (KPI) defined, we have established objectives for each employee, aimed at the economic, environmental, and social aspects of their position. Compensation for senior managers and executives takes the form of monthly payments since they have full-time, exclusive dedication to the company. For all executive level employees, we apply a variable-bonus system payable dependent on the achievement of yearly set targets. These targets are set in correlation with the entire organization’s performance in regard to social, environmental and economic objectives and are awarded through systematic evaluations of both personal performance and professional development. Procedures to Prevent Conflicts of Interest in our Highest Corporate Governance Body There is a company policy for managing conflicts of interest. This policy applies to all employees, contractors and suppliers We have a direct workforce of 5,204 employees. 62% are natives of La Guajira, the headquarters of our operation, 28% come from other areas along the Atlantic Coast, and 10% are from the rest of the country. Lázaro Marciano Ramírez and Tomás Eduardo Vega. Some of the goals of our performance policies and Irregularity Prevention guidelines are: We firmly believe honesty is the strongest way to • To promote and support high standards in ethical maintain maximum integrity. Therefore, we take behaviour consistent with established guidelines and great pains to preserve and project our excellent policies. management practices on a daily basis. By complying • To serve as a source of information for employees with the performance policies and guidelines given, and business units regarding compliance with behaand with the leadership of the Internal Control vioural policies and standards. Committee, each of Cerrejón’s collaborators shows • To foster mechanisms that allow all employees to their integrity and commitment to the company. exercise leadership in all our activities and in the way we carry them out. In 2010, we had 100% of the professional personnel fill out a Conflicts of Interest Declaration form, and we Administration of Irregularity Risks distributed the Policy Manual to 2,961 technical staff. The goal in 2011 is to reach all the technical staff. In To eliminate irregularity-related risks that could impact addition, we gave in-person conferences on behaviour compliance of our policies and reaching of targets. In 2010 policies and guidelines to 286 professional staff in the the Department of Internal Control focused their program annual program (June 2010 to June 2011), designed of fraud and corruption risk validation particularly on the for one hundred percent of professional personnel. areas of Materials, Sustainability and Public Affairs, the The goal is to reach the remainder between January Foundations System, Human Capital, Productivity and and July of 2011. Technology, and on certain specific special cases. In 2010, all situations related to reports of fraud and (Keeping in mind that the reviews were of relevant deviations from the policies for ethics, conflicts of business processes that cut across all areas, coverage of interest, and fraud control were addressed. The the analysis of fraud and corruption risk factors extended accusations were kept confidential. throughout the entire organization. In addition, the Internal Control verifications program also presented 32 reports We keep three open channels to facilitate the reporting to the Ethics Committee, corresponding to company of these types of situations: vulnerabilities involving different business units). • An Ethics Hotline in Colombia, reached from abroad or from any telephone in the country, and a website run by KPMG, an independent third party based in Argentina. • Telephone numbers and an e-mail from the internal auditing department of our BHP Billiton shareholders. • Telephone numbers and an e-mail from Cerrejón’s Department of Internal Control. For more information on the reporting channels, visit http://www.cerrejon.com/site/Default. aspx?tabid=164 As a result of investigations carried out over the course of the year on irregularities in compliance with the company’s behaviour policies and guidelines, nine employees were removed from their posts. This year there were no corruption-related incidents resulting in the non-renewal of contracts with business partners nor any lawsuits against the company or employees for corrupt practices. For more information on our allies, visit http:// www.cerrejon.com/site/Default.aspx?tabid=114 Luis Carlos Villegas, President of the ANDI, during the launch of the Sustainability Report 2009. Bogota, October 2010. Strategic Allies • Colombian-Mexican Chamber of Commerce. • Colombian Association of Engineers (ACIEM, its • ANDI Chamber of Energy and Gas. acronym in Spanish). • United Nations Global Compact Regional Centre • Colombian Association of Personnel and Industrial for Latin America and the Caribbean. Relations (ACRIP, its acronym in Spanish). • Colciencias (Administrative Dept. of Science, • Colombian Welding Association. Technology, and Innovation). • Association of Corporate Foundations. • Mining and Energy Safety and Human Rights • Latin American Railroads Association. Committee. • National Association of Industrialists (ANDI, its • ANDI National Environmental Committee. acronym in Spanish). • Colombian Safety Council. • Caribbean Businessmen Training Association • Conservation International. (AFEMCA, its acronym in Spanish). • Ideas for Peace Foundation. • Business Alliance for Secure Commerce (BASC). • United Nationals Global Compact. • ANDI Chamber of Miners. • Large-Scale Mining Industry (MGE, its acronym in • Colombian-American Chamber of Commerce. Spanish). • Colombian-British Chamber of Commerce. • Smithsonian Institution (palaeontological findings). • Colombian-Canadian Chamber of Commerce. • World Coal Association (WCA). Fabio Arjona, Executive Director of Conservation International; Otto Vergara, Director of the Cerrejón Foundation Indigenous Guajira; and León Teicher, President of Cerrejón, at the launch of the Sustainability Report 2009. Bogota, October 2010. 20 Sustainability Report 2010 An Integrated Operation “The operational achievements at Cerrejón are based on teamwork and a respect for the management of each party, starting with the design of the mining plans, followed by a disciplined implementation by production, and enjoying strong support from maintenance and operational support teams; only thus can successful results be achieved.” Fernando Chaves, Vice President of Production The Mine The Mine’s resources are estimated to be 1,961 million tons of coal spread out over 69,000 hectares. Within this area five leased zones are located: North Zone, Patilla, Oreganal, and South Zone from the State of Colombia, and the Central Zone from the Community of Cerrejón. The Railroad Different types of maintenance (preventive, scheduled, The railroad encompasses 150 kilometres and conditional) are performed in the workshops. of land, which accommodates trains comprised of up to 130 cars, which are W continuously loaded at the silos. The full cycle of loading, transport, unloading at the port, and return to the Mine lasts e are a clean and efficient operation that integrates approximately twelve hours. An average An Integrated Operation the Cerrejón Mine, Puerto Bolívar and the connecting of nine trains are despatched daily. railroad. Our coal-mining operation is executed according to the highest standards of safety and quality, and is based on our commitment to providing international markets with a product low in ash and sulphur contents, thus reducing the impact on populations and the environment. None of our mining operations are small scale or artisanal. The Port The port is the largest coal terminal in Latin America. It contains a navigable canal 19 metres deep, 225 metres wide, and 4 kilometres long. Sustainability Report 2010 21 In contrast with the drought experienced during the first half of the The decrease in generated and distributed year, from the end of June operations were seriously affected by the financial income is primarily due to the La Niña phenomenon, whereby inclement weather conditions resulted devaluation of the peso against the US in 205 days of rain. These conditions resulted in an (impact) of 1,112 dollar. At the end of 2010, the Government hours on operations compared with the 500 planned for the year. Representative Exchange Rate (TRM, its Nevertheless, precautionary measures taken by the mine (including acronym in Spanish) was $1,913.38 per US the building of drainage systems and, in particular, the maintenance of dollar; this represents a devaluation of 6.37% the excavation machinery floor surfaces at an incline of 2%) allowed compared with 2009 (Source: Bank of the work to start up more quickly after the rains. Therefore, thankfully, Republic of Colombia). high production levels were reached within a short recovery time. The pace of operations during the dry season in the first part of the year The reinvested financial income is equal to the provided an advantage during the winter period. amounts not distributed to stakeholders and used by the company to further the operation. Economic value generated and distributed Contributions to In 2010, we once again opted to calculate the distribution of the economic value generated between the various stakeholders for the National Economy the period covered by this report. The following table lists the comparative results, by stakeholder, for 2008, 2009, and 2010. Socio-Economic Assessment Toolbox (SEAT) PARTICIPATION LEVELS The Socio-Economic Assessment Toolbox (SEAT) is a mining operations socioeconomic assessment methodology applied to Anglo American that we have used as a reference in calculating the contribution to the country’s economy, following the 3D indicator guidelines. The objective of this indicator is to estimate contributions made by the company to the country’s economy by three different means: • Value added. This is the company’s contribution to the wealth generated by the economy. • Percentage of the country’s Gross Domestic Product (GDP) contributed by the company. The GDP is the gross added value of all goods and services produced by a country’s economy as a whole. THOUSANDS OF COLOMBIAN PESOS 2008 PART. (%) 2009 PART. (%) 2010 PART. (%) CHANGE(%) • Contribution to the country’s balance TOTAL 5,329,848 5,003,151 4,471,605 -11 of trade. The trade balance is the net OPERATING INCOME difference between the operation’s total National suppliers/contractors 460,659 9 516,182 10 509,081 11 -1 exports and its imports. Foreign suppliers/contractors 1,454,543 27 1,193,118 24 1,076,586 24 -10 Employees 390,420 7 489,479 10 478,204 11 -2 Government royalties Government taxes 547,158 746,438 10 14 533,603 654,762 11 13 338,818 541,193 12 8 -37 -17 Contributions to the National GDP Private royalties 65,342 1 79,203 2 35,446 1 -55 The importance of the mining and energy Reinvestment 31,726 6 358,100 7 469,754 11 31 industry as a major source of income and Shareholders 1,352,562 25 1,178,704 24 1,022,523 23 -13 financial resources for the national economy TOTAL INCOME has been a factor in the improvement of 5,329,848 100% 5,003,151 100% 4,471,605 100% -11% DISTRIBUTED terms of trade, increased tax revenue, financing of other sectors of the economy, TECHNICAL NOTES This information covers the following companies: Carbones del Cerrejón Limited and Cerrejón Zona Norte S.A. and a large source of foreign currency. All of the information comes from officially audited financial records (specifically, the Results Report). The amount distributed to employees includes all remunerations, benefits, and compensations associated with directly employed personnel. The reinvestment amount includes fiscal year depreciations and amortizations, plus profits that were reinvested rather than distributed. 22 Sustainability Report 2010 The results of the calculations suggested by the SEAT methodology show that the contribution by Cerrejón to the national GDP was 0.34%, compared with 0.4% in 2009. Contributions to Regional GDP BREAKDOWN OF THE GDP OF LA GUAJIRA Agriculture Mining Industry Electricity Construction Business Transportation Financial establishments Source: Dane. Latest data available. Added value to constant 2005 prices. Contribution to the balance of trade In 2010, the export of petroleum and its by-products reached 42% of the national total compared with 32% in 2009; coal represented 15% of the country’s total exports. Cerrejón contributed 6% of total Colombian exports in 2010. Purchases from Suppliers in the Area of Influence As a result of our commitment to local communities, we increased total purchases from suppliers and contractors from municipalities in the area of influence by 48%. This increase is significant considering that in 2009 these purchases had decreased compared with 2008. We are backed by 4,333 workers from contractor companies. Sustainability Report 2010 23 Investments in Infrastructure For more information on the ICCM philosophy Initiatives to Improve Roadway Infrastructure regarding the stewardship of materials and We actively work to strengthen the local economies where we supplies, please see the International Council conduct our business, without compromising the effectiveness and on Mining and Metals, 2010. Reference efficiency of our operations. Therefore, we have invested heavily International Council on Mining and Metals in infrastructural developments and recovery initiatives that are (July 6, 2010). Materials Stewardship. vital both to Cerrejón’s competitiveness and to our neighbouring Retrieved from ICMM on July 6, 2010: http:// communities. We believe that the progress of our neighbours www.icmm.com/page/1389/our-work/worktranslates into progress for the company. programs/articles/materials-stewardship. To this end, in 2010 we continued our participation in the restoration of the unpaved road between Uribia and Puerto Bolívar, 80% of Responsible Marketing of Coal which had deteriorated as a result of the harsh winter weather at the The greatest environmental impact within end of the year. To accomplish this, we implemented a strategy that the chain of the product life cycle occurs employed three simultaneous work fronts, mobilizing approximately when coal is used in thermoelectric power 4,500 m3 of materials. The road maintenance costs amounted to plants for the production of energy. While nearly US$932,000, US$360,000 more than in 2009. this is not an activity that we engage in, we nevertheless implement measures to This intervention strategy allowed us to guarantee logistical improve coal quality (high calorific value, assistance from the Port and the transport of large loads to the low ash and sulphur) and thus contribute Mine, as well as the transport of personnel and goods between to a reduction in environmental impact Bahía Portete and the Cabo de la Vela towards Uribia. This was during its use. To date there have been no an essential operation due to the economic importance of the high incidents resulting from any breach in the tourism season in the region which occurs at the end of year and product life cycle. carries on into spring. As part of our policy of full disclosure to Exports and Trade: our clients regarding the coal quality and measures to be taken in its handling, we Product Stewardship and Supply Chain provide the following: Materials and Supplies At Cerrejón we recognize that the philosophy of material stewardship 1. Quality Assurance Sheet, which, in includes all of the necessary activities to ensure the optimum and accordance with international standards, appropriate use of coal by society. As this requires focusing on the provides the information needed by a product’s life cycle, the best way to achieve this is through global and client to quantify the products resulting industry-wide efforts that involve all of the phases and players up and from the burning of coal and their down the coal supply chain, including the materials and supplies used corresponding environmental impact. in the mining process. This sheet is provided to the client at the very start of any business relationship. We have committed ourselves to implementing the International Council on Mining and Metals (ICMM) Sustainable Development 2. Material Safety Data Sheet (MSDS). In Framework regarding materials stewardship, including product life addition to a generic description of the cycle and chemicals management, through to their production and coal (description, physical properties, sustainable consumption. Our shareholders (BHP Billiton, Anglo etc.), the safety data sheet includes American, and Xstrata) are members of the ICMM, and within this the precautions to be taken and the framework we promote responsible practices of design, use, reuse, measures to be adopted in the event recycling, and disposal of materials that go beyond the mining of an emergency resulting from coal operations themselves, thus ensuring continued increase in the value handling, as well as the potential impact of coal for society. of a failure to take said precautions. Specifically, in our mid-term management plan, we will include a This sheet is updated in accordance work plan that is linked to life cycle analysis, recycling, and ecowith 2010 international standards and, efficiency. In addition, we will promote scientifically based policies for as an additional measure, is issued to the management of chemicals used in our processes and provide an the captains of all ships calling at Puerto effective interface so that industry policies and international debate on Bolívar to load Cerrejón coal. sustainable consumption and production reflect the mining industry’s positive contribution to sustainable development and its responsible 3. Continued participation in industry use of natural resources. forums and visits from current and 24 Sustainability Report 2010 potential customers, indigenous communities, action to ensure maximum customer satisfaction national and regional authorities, government with the product they receive, and also serves as a representatives, NGOs and local, national, and reference for shortand middle-term sales planning. international media, at the Mine and Puerto Bolívar Likewise, in its sales visits to customers, the CMC installations. sales team always confirm that the product which the customer has received complies with the quality Quality and Customer Satisfaction and time frame parameters defined by contract, thus guaranteeing their satisfaction. Customer satisfaction is measured in a number of ways. One of the most significant indicators is the Customer Privacy reliable supply of the product within the agreed-upon Our company maintains the privacy of all information delivery times. In this regard, Cerrejón has never related to our customers’ corporate data and the invoked force majeure nor has it failed to fulfil any of terms and conditions of our commercial agreements its commercial contracts—a record it has sustained with them. As a result, no claims have been made in throughout 2010. We have a long-term business this regard. relationship with most of our customers (for a number of years), and are the sole supplier for some of them. Impacts on Health and Safety During our visits to clients, we consult with them to As part of the service we provide to our clients, identify any impact our product may have on health our sales arm, Coal Marketing Company (CMC) or safety. In 2010, there were no complaints in this periodically makes technical visits to their electric regard. Customers expect that products and services power plants in order to a) collect feedback regarding delivered to fulfil an intended purpose should do so the use of Cerrejón coal, b) promote the use of one in a manner that is satisfactory and that poses no of our coal types in particular, and c) explain some risk. Thankfully there have also been no reported of the technical conditions of the Mine development, incidents of the product impacting health and safety and the technical specifications of the coal that we throughout its life cycle resulting from a breach of any aim to provide. The information collected during regulations. these visits to clients allows the organization to take More than 460 million tonnes of coal delivered throughout the history of the complex without any invocation of force majeure. 26 Sustainability Report 2010 Sustainable Development Child in the community of Patilla. C errejón acts in accordance with internationally agreed-upon principles and is among the pioneering companies in the country in their adoption. Our responsibility to neighbouring communities goes far beyond the role of employment and royalty generators. Our commitment to these local communities constitutes both broad social engagement and a close working relationship with community departments. These actions are consistently underlined and guided by those international standards held to multinational organisations. In order to promote and support ambitious projects aimed at strengthening and sustaining regional development, we created the Cerrejón Foundations System in 2008, with which we intend to open the road to department sustainability. This chapter consists of the following subjects: subscription to standards, commitments, and certifications achieved; our company and the principles of the United Nations Global Compact; the third-party review panel (TPR); our management of sustainability risks and the relations of Cerrejón with stakeholders. It includes, as sub-chapters, Safety, Community Relations, Human Rights, Foundations System, Human Capital, and Environmental Management. Sustainable Development For more information about our vision of sustainable development, visit http://www.cerrejon.com/site/Default.aspx?tabid=80 Sustainability Report 2010 27 Subscription to Standards, Commitments and Certifications Achieved Standards and initiatives followed by Cerrejón • Universal Declaration of Human Rights. 2007 A Third-Party Review Panel is convened for • Fundamental conventions of the ILO. Cerrejón’s social programs. • Social and environmental performance guides 1, 5, 2008 Joining the Mining and Energy Committee and 7 of the International Finance Corporation (IFC) on Security and Human Rights, a Colombian of the World Bank. initiative for implementation of the Voluntary • Voluntary Principles on Security and Human Rights Principles on Security and Human Rights. United Nations “Protect, Respect, and Remedy” 2008 Signing of the Cerrejón – Colciencias accord Framework. for financing research projects. • United Nations Global Compact. 2008 Creation of the Cerrejón Foundations System. • Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). 2008 ISO 9001:2008 certification for the mining • Sustainable Development Framework of the service and support equipment maintenance International Council on Mining and Metals (ICMM). processes, component rebuilding, and the supply of operational support services, which Milestones in Our are the direct responsibility of the Maintenance Sustainability Process Department. Recertification in force until 2011. 2009 The company is cofounder of the Global 2003 ISO 14001 and OHSAS 18001 certificates Compact Regional Centre for Latin America from 2003 to date. and the Caribbean. 2005 Development of the human rights policy. 2009 Cerrejón in one of five companies in the world 2005 Cerrejón signs the Global Compact participating in the United Nations pilot program commitments. for implementation of a rights-based Complaints 2007 Signing of the Inter-Institutional Cooperation Office. Convention with the NGO Conservation International. Our Company and the Principles of the United Nations Global Compact 28 Sustainability Report 2010 The renewals of the OHSAS 18001:2007 and ISO 14001:2004 certifications were granted by the international company SGS (Société Générale de Surveillance), and they certify the Environmental Management System and the Occupational Health and Safety Management System in the operations of the Mine, the railroad, Puerto Bolívar, and Bogota, as well as all the associated infrastructure. Third-Party Review Panel of Social decrease value. Adequate risk management allows Programs (TPR) management to consistently and effectively face uncertainty, threats, and the associated opportunities, With the purpose of evaluating our progress in social therefore increasing the capacity to generate value. matters, we convened the Third-Party Review Panel (TPR) in 2007, presided over by figures from academia Based on the recommendations from the accident and the third sector at a national and international that occurred on August 4, 2010 (see the chapter level. In 2008, the panel’s analysis provided 24 on Safety), we have revised and updated our Risk recommendations on different matters related to human Management System and included criteria and rights, resettlements, royalties, health, culture, and the procedures that improve the identification and environment in our area of influence, among others. administration of higher-risk activities (whose impact, We have subsequently presented documentation on if they materialize, leads to fatalities). Our main progress on these issues twice a year since then. priority remains, as ever, to ensure the effectiveness The fifth progress report was delivered in 2010 and of these catastrophic risk controls. We aim to do this included a detailed account of activities that are still through management procedures that encompass under development and pending commitments. Other the administration as well as every level of our highlights include: the partial review conducted by the operation. external consultant Social Capital Group on the progress of activities evaluated by the panel; holding informational In 2010, we renewed our Risk Management System, and liaison meetings with local communities and revising and updating the inventory of critical activities authorities; the official launching of the Complaints Office; in each operational area, defining the action plans and the review of the social baselines for each one of and controls necessary to eliminate risks wherever the five communities undergoing resettlement (Roche, possible, or reduce them to acceptable tolerance Patilla, Chancleta, Tamaquito II, and Las Casitas). levels: • In order to decrease the probability of the The five Cerrejón social commitment progress occurrence of an event, we have defined and reports presented since 2008 may be seen implemented preventive measures. at http://www.cerrejon.com/site/Default. • In order to diminish its severity when an event aspx?tabid=144 occurs, we have defined and implemented mitigation measures. Sustainability Risk Management In addition, our Risk Management Policy gives the highest priority to systematic and strategic Risk management plays a key role for us in planning management, and commits us as an organization and operations – by focusing on those defined as to these priorities. We have generated profound crucial risks we generate greater administrative improvements in risk identification and recording, insight, and therefore control, over them. Risk from the design of the controls themselves to is inherent in our business and identifying it is measurement and evaluation of their effectiveness, fundamental for the health and well-being of all our and therefore seeking to guarantee the lowest impact workers, as well as for achieving the corporate goals. of risk events on the workers, local communities, the Uncertainty poses both threats and opportunities environment, and the company. for our business, and the potential to increase or Sustainability Report 2010 29 We present a summary of the corporate risk analysis and control system below, in which the main management events and impacts of 2011 are identified. For each event and its respective impact identified above, programs, plans, and control activities have been developed to which resources (budget, human resources, equipment, etc.) and people responsible for implementing the controls are assigned. Often, the application of the controls is monitored and their effectiveness is verified. The Corporate Risk Management System is led by the Financial Vice-Presidency; its validation and control are overseen directly by the Presidency and the Shareholders’ Committee. 30 Sustainability Report 2010 Relations with Stakeholders For the identification and selection of our stakeholders, in 2009 we began by characterizing all those groups related to our operation, as well as their main needs and expectations, in order to then prioritize them. Year after year we have reviewed our relationship with each one of them and we have generated new communication channels in order Annual corporate recognition event. to increasingly respond to their expectations, incluThe Mine, May 2010 ding those new stakeholders that are identified. Our stakeholders are: • Departmental and local authorities and bodies. • Local, peasant, and indigenous communities. • Employees and trade union. • Mining sector companies. • National Government. • Educational and healthcare institutions. • Regional, national, and international communications media and opinion leaders. • NGOs. • Suppliers and contractors. This rapprochement to our stakeholders is aimed at: • Minimizing, mitigating, or compensating social Mauricio Cárdenas, Cerrejón employee, with Evangelio impacts when they cannot be avoided. Conchacala, during the launching of the 2009 Sustainability Report. Riohacha, October 2010. • Promoting and respecting human rights and managing complaints effectively. • Involving the communities and stakeholders in a participative way, seeking to build solid relationships based on trust and transparency. • Contributing to the sustainability of La Guajira. The main activities for engaging with our shareholders in 2010 are shown below. Corporate Events • Annual strategy and results meetings with employees held in Bogota, the Mine, and Puerto Bolívar. • Launching the 2009 Sustainability Report in Riohacha and Bogota. Willinton Duarte, Patilla community representative, member of the • Encounters with national and regional Air-Quality Oversight Committee, receives his training diploma in the air-quality monitoring protocol. communications media, highlighted by the yearend meeting of 22 national representatives with the Presidency and the communications personnel visit to 23 communications media. • Annual recognition events, where 291 collaborators were nominated (175 professionals, 104 technicians, and 12 contractors) in the categories of Operational quality and effectiveness, Cost effectiveness and safety, Health, environment, and communities. Each nominee could attend with a family member and their immediate boss. • For the third consecutive year, we brought an extension of the Hay Festival to La Guajira. 2010 Hay Festival. The capital of La Guajira was the stage for diversity and culture for the third consecutive year. Riohacha, February 2010. Participation in Sector Events Meetings with Suppliers • International seminar on “Myths and facts of the Two events were held with our contracting companies, mining and energy sector in Colombia”, with the in Bogota and Baranquilla, where 110 and 127 launching of the Large-Scale Mining (MGE, its representatives respectively participated in seminars acronym in Spanish) sector, which is comprised run by Cerrejón. We used these events as opportunities of the fourteen largest mining operations in to inform our contractors of our purchasing and the country, including Cerrejón. Among the contracting processes, to reinforce our existing policies, 358 people in attendance were Government to promote our ethical position and to raise the profile representatives, diplomatic missions accredited to of the Cerrejón Foundations System. Colombia, multilateral organizations, foundations, NGOs, representatives from the academic, Furthermore, the Operational Integrity Committee private, mining and energy sectors, as well as meets monthly with contractors, headed by the associations, chambers of commerce, national Executive Vice President of Operations , to promote media, and international news agencies. the highest safety rates in the operation. • Participation in the following events: International Conference on Mining of the National Association Events with Communities in the Area of of Exporters (Analdex); International Fair of the Influence Environment (FIMA, its acronym in Spanish); The following 2010 activities should be noted: Colombia Oil and Gas, an initiative headed by • Thirty-five Mobile Healthcare Clinics, which the National Agency of Hydrocarbons (ANH, provided assistance to 9,490 people from the its acronym in Spanish); Expoguajira, from communities of Albania, Hatonuevo, Uribia, the Chamber of Commerce of La Guajira; Maicao, and Barrancas. 6th International Mining Fair, held in Medellín • Five collective leadership workshops, at which (Government of Antioquia and Andi); Expo Mining municipal administrations from the area of influence Fair in Corferias, and ANDI General Assembly, (Al) participated, and a further four meetings including the CSR and mining events. held to target local emergency requirements which arose from harsh winter weather. These Visits to the Mine by Our Stakeholders meetings were attended by 108 councillors and From January to December 2010, we received public administrators and 30 officials. Twentya total of 16,033 visitors, distributed as follows: three theatre performances, attended by 3,480 Tourists (49%), students (39%), environmental indigenous people, as well as eight visits that visits (6%), relatives of employees (4%), as well were part of the Coal Route program. 144 people as representatives of the Government, embassies, participated in these visits which were held in order academia, and news media (2%). to raise awareness of indigenous communities located in the vicinity of the railway, with a particular emphasis placed on issues of safety, self-protection, and shared responsibility. • Ten workshops for each of the communities, together with 809 inhabitants from settlements within the AI. • Six meetings of the Brush-Cutting program, which subsequently held follow-up meetings for results throughout the year, and in which 340 indigenous people in the vicinity of the railway were involved. Indigenous reservation of El Cerro during their visit to the Cerrejón environmental programs. Fauna Recovery Centre, The Mine, August 2010. Operational Integrity Committee of contracting companies. The Mine, June 2010. • Six meetings of the Mixed Committee with from the Community Action Committees [JAC, its 72 members of the Tabaco Network for Selfacronym in Spanish], the town council, the municipal Development (RTDE, its acronym in Spanish), council, and the communities in the vicinity of the with the purpose of listening to their concerns, mining operation, as well as teachers from the and to give a report concerning the work of the University of La Guajira, officials from Corpoguajira, entrepreneurship managers. the Barrancas Secretariat of Education, the • One thousand one hundred sixteen visits to the Barrancas Secretariat of Government, and the homes of those receiving RTDE projects. Barrancas Secretariat of Finance. • Eighty-one meetings with 509 people that participated • One thousand and eighteen visitors were received, in the RTDE entrepreneurial training projects. mainly from indigenous communities, educational • Twenty-two meetings with the work team of the Tabaco institutions, and administrative entities of La Guajira. Physical Rebuilding Project to plan the strategy of • Four events were held in which the Excellence and communication and information between the Tabaco Fulbright scholarship programs were presented. community and the company, thus complying with • Twenty meetings and follow-up visits were carried the agreement entered into with the Tabaco Proout, such as the monitoring plan of the Technical Relocation Committee in December 2008. Training Program in alliance with SENA, which will contribute to regional development and reduction in For more information see the 2009 the unemployment rate of young people (18 years old Sustainability Report, visit http://www. and up) from lower socio-economic backgrounds. cerrejon.com/site/Portals/0/Documents/ • Eight visible audit forums organized between the pdf/informes_sostenibilidad/INFORME_ Foundation for Institutional Strengthening and SOSTENIBILIDADl2009.pdf the Presidential Program for the Fight against Corruption. These were held with purpose • Promotion and prevention activities offered by the of monitoring the implementation of royalty hospitals for 31,500 people from the AI in order to investment projects of more than $60 billion, assist in strengthening State healthcare institutions. allocated to educational infrastructure, aqueducts, • Thirty-nine visits to the AI for the purpose basic sanitation, and low-income housing projects. of distributing information on the company’s These were conducted with the active participation environmental management policies. These visits, of the communities and municipal authorities of as outlined in the Environmental Management Plan Barrancas, Uribia, Albania, and Hatonuevo. (EMP), were attended by 1,018 indigenous people from the communities surrounding the local railway and mining operations. These included, traditional authorities, town councils, leaders, teachers, and eleventh-grade students from schools located in Albania, Hatonuevo, Barrancas, and Maicao). • The Fauna Recovery Centre received 2,217 visitors, mostly from indigenous communities and students. • Seven meetings of the Air-Quality Oversight Committee were held (for more information see the environmental chapter). • The Air-Quality Municipal Forum, held in the municipality of Barrancas, in which 94 people participated. These included representatives Sustainability Report 2010 33 Sustainable Development Safety “Cerrejón’s vision is to maintain all operations free of accidents and events that may cause injuries to its workers. This must be achieved through responsible management and careful handling of risks. It is our firm belief that our operations should be safe, with well-designed facilities and processes, which, through effective safety leadership, can call upon the participation and commitment of all of our people.” Héctor Hincapié Industrial Safety Manager Objectives • Eradicate casualties in our operations. • Improve overall safety performance. • Increase the perception of risk, self-protection, and the care of other people. Strategies • Strengthen visible safety leadership. • Ensure contractor safety performance. • Reinforce operational discipline (in compliance with regulations). • Implement the Fatal Risk Control Protocols (FRCP). • These strategies will be adjusted in 2011 based upon recommendations derived from the incident in August 2010. Safety Results in 2010 Launching of the safety campaign “Behaviours for Life”. Maintenance Department Personnel. Incidents and Injuries The Mine, March 2010. The recordable injury frequency rate F (RIFR) out of the Cerrejón total was 0.41 for every 200,000 work hours, a figure that includes all personal injuries except or us, safety is a corporate value that promotes first-aid treatments. The maximum limit for suitable working conditions for all our employees. With 2010 was 0.34. The RIFR for employees this in mind, we provide key safety programme training was 0.38, and that of contractors was 0.44. and tools to all our employees, and through responsible management we diligently ensure that these procedures The Cerrejón classified or disabling injury are applied. These policies include; Job Safety Analysis frequency rate (CIFR) in 2010 was 0.31, (JSA), Behavioural-Based Accident Prevention Process set against a maximum limit of 0.20. The (BBAPP), the CAS Reports (conditions, actions, and CIFR of employees was 0.32, and that of near-misses), and the application of the Fatal Risk contractors was 0.30. The total severity rate Control Protocols (FRCP) requirements. for the company was 31.2. For employees this rate was 23.9, and for contractors it was 37.1 for every 200,000 work hours. Safety 34 Sustainability Report 2010 Comparison Study of National Industry response to the emergency and proper medical care Safety Results (Indexsys) enabled us to save the lives of twelve of these people. In 2010, the Research Group on Health, Cognition, and Work of the School of Medicine and Health We have implemented the improvement actions Sciences of the University of Rosario, presented recommended by the Investigation Committee in the results of the Indexsys study, which was carried order to eliminate these types of incidents, which we out to determine the trend of the CIFR and the RIFR continue to deeply regret. To date, we have placed within the national industry. an emphasis on implementing the following actions: • Update the safety strategies to ensure greater focus The results showed that the CIFR and the RIFR of on critical risks on the part of our management. Cerrejón employees were among the best withinthe • Review our risk management system. study, particularly compared to those employees • Adjust the project management and tender systems registered within other sectors of the national in order to reinforce control of critical risks. economy during the period 2007 2009. • Appoint additional safety personnel for any contracts or projects which may include critical risk activities, For more information regarding the health and so as to ensure an ongoing and independent safety indicators of our employees, please evaluation of the safety management of any such visit http://www.cerrejon.com/site/Default. contracts and projects. These additional provisions aspx?tabid=266 will report to the Safety Department. • Ensure the participation and advice of third-party Fatalities experts in the definition of any critical risk control On August 4, 2010 a regrettable construction actions required in our operations. This is primarily accident took place in coal silo No. 1, in which four in order to guarantee a suitable evaluation of any fellow workers lost their lives: Luis Alfredo Restrepo, risk, while ensuring that any subsequent controls are Carlos Enrique Pérez, Luis Manuel Ricardo, and implemented effectively. Jairo del Cristo García. The accident took place at • Reinforce our change handling procedures so as the construction site of a new inside wall in one of the to ensure adequate levels of risk analysis and to silos, a place where the original walls had suffered ensure the approval of their effectiveness. structural damage. The accident occurred after the completion of the inside wall, when the contractor Absenteeism Rates was getting ready to lower the platform (formwork) In 2010, the absenteeism rate was 6.24 and 11.51%, used in the silo reinforcement. Fourteen people were including holidays, for the total of 5,204 employees. on the platform, which was at a height of 35 metres Absenteeism due to occupational accidents and when the accident occurred, and there were a further diseases (ATEP, its acronym in Spanish) was 1.05%, two fellow workers on the floor of the silo. A timely and for general illnesses it was 2.23%. Safety Andrés Soto, Vice President of Operation Support. The Mine, March 2010. Sustainability Report 2010 35 Summary of the Element Six Indicators of Operational Integrity The following indicators are a summary of the work carried out within the Occupational Health Program for the management of occupational medicine and industrial hygiene. Training in Safety In 2010, 537 training sessions were carried out with our contractors, focusing on themes of the Operational Integrity System (OIS). Patricia Mendoza, employee from the Communications Division, during the launch of the safety campaign called “Protect your hands”. The Mine, March 2010. Project of Fatal Risk Control Protocols (FRCP). Cerrejón is undertaking important investments in from the Meerra community, was hit by train No. 674 order to achieve its main goal of safety: Eradicate all travelling north at km 8; 2) On May 9, Jorge González casualties in our operations. Epiayú was hit by train No. 935 travelling north at km 47 of the railway; and 3) On July 17, Francisco Ipuana The following actions were included within the Epiayú was hit by train No. 1453 travelling south at ongoing project in 2010: km 38 of the railway. Fatalities of third parties had • Install protection systems for dumping action in previously occurred in September 2008. 336 trucks and 175 medium-weight vehicles. • Install anti-collision systems in 417 pieces of Cerrejón’s Department of Social Responsibility mining equipment. has already begun to implement the actions • Install automatic localization systems in 748 light recommended by the investigations conducted into and medium-weight vehicles in order to monitor the 2010 incidents. These include the following steps: speed and as a collision-prevention system. • Develop social programs to control risky behaviour • Manufacture safety rails to be installed during in critical areas of the railway, focusing on the maintenance shutdowns of the coal plants and in prevention of alcoholism and the adoption of healthy the Port area in 2011. lifestyles. Contract the external consulting agency • Initiate the identification of signposting needs in Environmental Resource Management (ERM) to November 2010 for energy lockout/tagout. review preventive actions aiding in the elimination • Manufacture nine portable structures for spill of fatalities and to recommend additional actions. containment for the fuel islands. • Restructure the Social Management Division for the purpose of adequately supporting the current Third-party fatalities programs. In 2010, three third-party fatalities occurred on the northern railway. 1) On March 29, Noé Jarariyu, Health and Safety Committees In 2008, the percentage of total workers represented in joint management-employee Health and Safety committees (established to help control and advise on health and safety programs at work) was 24%. In 2009, this percentage was 25%, and in 2010 it was 24%, comprising: Safety Sustainability Report 2010 37 Sustainable Development Community Engagement “Via our CSR policy we seek to efficiently engage with all of our stakeholders, contributing also to the improvement in the standard of living of nearly 235,000 people from 266 communities in the area of influence of our operations, in close alliance with all sectors of society and with different State entities”. Eduardo Lozano Head of the Social Engagement Division Objective Aware of the socio-economic situation of La Guajira, our efforts concentrate on projects which focus on the welfare of the region’s inhabitants by creating conditions that enable long-term sustainability. By using such strategies we help to develop the necessary economic, social and environmental conditions needed for Presentation of the Cerrejón Symphonic Orchestra, comprising future generations. 100 young Guajiros, with the National Symphonic Orchestra. Goals in 2010 The Mine, April 2010. A • Restructure the Social Engagement Division. • Involve more Tabaco community members in the Tabaco Network for t Cerrejón, we view community engagement as Self-Development. something more than a set of occasional initiatives. In • Increase the number of members of both our philosophy and lifestyle, community engagement the Oreganal Multi-Activity Farming extensively encompasses our policy, practice and Cooperative (Coopmao). programmes and is integrated within the company itself. It • Involve the hospital of Uribia in the healthcare is through this that we may focus on building an ethical and programs in order to improve coverage of transparent relationship with all of our stakeholders. the area of influence along the railway. As part of our commitment with the region, in 2010 we Challenges in 2011 carried out numerous health, cultural, recreational, sports, • Raise our social engagement level to achieve and entrepreneurship initiatives designed to continue to better international standards and practices. improve the standards of living of all those communities • Improve the capacity for handling social risks located in the vicinity of our operation. By respecting that threaten the integrated operation and diversity and actively working to eradicate inequalities within corporate reputation. these communities, we help to encourage sustainable • Achieve articulation between the programs socio-economic development for La Guajira. All the social of community relations in social engageprograms that the company carries out for the neighbouring ment, those of the Unified Environmental communities are performed within the framework of the Management Plan, and those of the FounCorporate Community Relations Plan. dations System. Community Engagement 38 Sustainability Report 2010 Communities in the area of influence The Mine 21 communities with approximately 219,649 people. Along the Railway 232 Wayuu communities with approximately 14,000 inhabitants. In Puerto Bolívar Our area of influence is comprised of thirteen communities, with 226 dwellings (rancherías) capable of housing approximately 1,180 inhabitants. Post-resettlements and entrepreneurship We seek to strengthen the social fabric of the communities of Tabaco, Oreganal, Remedios, and the merchants of Cuatro Vías, by way of entrepreneurship projects and social engagement programs. These schemes are designed to provide social capital to these communities and thus allowing them to achieve Meeting for presenting the balance sheet to the community. Oreganal, August 2010. both sustainable development and territorial security. Tabaco Programs Achievements in 2010 • Training in business start-ups • Investment of $2,300 million in entrepreneurship • Primary healthcare initiatives between 2008 and 2010. • Creation of direct and indirect employment • This investment includes the physical reconstruction • Recreation, culture, and sports of Tabaco, to be carried out at the La Cruz property, • Formal education programs and which we will hand over to the municipality of • Community organization Hatonuevo. • Promotion and funding of production projects. Oreganal In March 2007, the Oreganal Round Table agreement Second meeting of the Tabaco Network for Self-Development. Riohacha, December 2010. committed Cerrejon to supplying $2,400 million; the regional Government $240 million; and the Mayor’s Office of Barrancas $200 million. Agreement Achievements in 2010 • Workforce preparation: 89 young people benefited. • Technical and academic training for young people: 110 young people benefited. • Creation of direct and indirect employment with the company: 121 people benefited. • Strengthening of micro businesses and the creation of new ones: 41 people benefited. • Timely healthcare provided for patients within the community suffering from poor health: 79 people benefited. • Complete healthcare provided for seniors: 20 people benefited. • Promotion and funding of production projects: 45 Community Engagement participating families. • Repair and refurbishment of the community cemetery and church. Sustainability Report 2010 39 Los Remedios Relations with communities Programs • Mi Dulce Remedio: The production and marketing At the Mine of sweets; twelve families benefited. Objective • Assessment for livestock production; twelve Create two-way communications between Cerrejón families benefited. and the communities of the AI through activities that • Start-up of the Chicken Raising project; ten people strengthen their social fabric in order to improve their benefited. satisfaction levels regarding our operation. Achievements in 2010 Programs • Thirty people were trained in cooperativism. Community Service Office, community organization • Fifteen people were trained in good livestock practices. and participation, and relations with the indigenous • Five people were trained in diesel motor mechanics. communities of the AI. • One person was trained in electromechanical maintenance. Achievements in 2010 • Five people were hired by the contracting company • By way of our agreement with the Waüye Aramark. Corporation, we agreed to strengthen our capacity for engaging with the indigenous communities within Cuatro Vías the Mine’s area of influence by acknowledging Objective their own culture, coordination between institutions In collaboration with the Regional Government of La and the Public, as well as intercultural dialogue. Guajira and the Mayor’s Office of Maicao, the Cuatro Vías open-air tourist market project was carried out to support the recovery of the tourism sector. By building a safe and well-organized space within which to offer tourism services, Cerrejón developed a more amenable atmosphere for both tourist providers and their own • Rural Youth Entrepreneurship Program. After 150 operations. Through the redevelopment of this area, the hours of technical training in Wayuu drawing, a risk to local industry posed by proximity to the railroad handicraft product, 57 Wayuu craftswomen were was diminished, therefore strategically promoting La certified from the indigenous reservations of Trupio Guajira as a tourist destination. Gacho (19 craftswomen), Provincial (17 people), and El Cerro (21 people), within the framework of Achievements in 2010 the partnership between Cerrejón, the Cerrejón • Development of concept proposals with the group Foundation Indigenous Guajira, and the SENA La of salespeople. Guajira branch. With this certification, the cycle of • Training day in the proper management of solid waste integral training in the blanket line was completed, Training programs with the group of salespeople in having strengthened techniques in dressmaking, areas related to the organization and improvement embroidery, and painting. of their business. • Seventy craftswomen from the indigenous • The Regional Government and the Mayor’s Office reservations of San Francisco, Trupio Gacho, confirmed budgetary availability of $1,000 million Provincial, and El Cerro benefited from good each as input for the agreement preparation. business practices, commercial strengthening, • Preparation of studies and designs for the open-air and the entrepreneurship of their production tourist market. units: Product design and development for each • Presentation of the designs to the governor and to handicraft workshop, costing and devising of price the team from the Mayor’s Office. lists, training in “More Sales More Profit” in the municipality of Barrancas, designing the corporate logo and image for each handicraft workshop, and the participation in trade fairs and events on a regional and national level. Design of the Cuatro Vías open-air tourist market. November 2010. Community Engagement How Is the Rebirth of Tabaco Viewed? “I believe that a goal will be to see oneself integrated again within joint community activities; no longer each one doing their own thing, but to be involved in the situation of community development. It will be very important for us. I believe that this is what we all desire”. José Julio Pérez. Leader of the Tabaco community and of its physical reconstruction project. The Coal Route, a program for closing the gap between the Wayuu community and the Cerrejón railway operation. Mobile Healthcare Clinic. November 2010. Media Luna, August 2010. Along the railway Achievements in 2010 Objective • We trained 31 craftswomen in entrepreneurship Broadcast information on Cerrejón’s coal transport and fabric improvement of handwoven bags and process from the Mine to the Port, and raise the double-sided hammocks. awareness of indigenous communities in the vicinity of • We presented a handicraft exhibit at the Port facilities. the railway in the areas of safety, self-protection, and • We carried out four citizen training workshops, shared responsibility issues. taught by the Waüye Corporation. As a result, 49 people were trained in indigenous legislation and Programs 69 in strengthening communities for institutional Embrace life, information and communication, Brush and public coordination. Cutting program, and support for the operation. • We started activities for designing 27 houses in the communities of Pioula and Pioule (Malla Sur sector). Achievements in 2010 • Together with the Foundation Indigenous Guajira, Raising awareness of safety, self-protection and shared we implemented the first phase of the Goat-Raising responsibility within the community of the 3,480 indigenous Project in Puerto Bolívar, which consists in the people living in the vicinity of the railway, based on their characterization of the goat population, a flora and customs and traditions. To this end, we used the theatre fauna inventory, and a residents’ census. play Kanain Pain (“Be Careful”, in Wayuunaiki), as well as • We assisted the community of Media Luna in raising the awareness of 144 indigenous people regarding repairing their tanker truck, in celebrating their the railway and mining operation in the Coal Route project. festivals, and in the different activities carried out at the Kamüsüshiw’o Ethno-Educational Institution. In Puerto Bolívar • We created the community environmental supervision, Objective comprised of six people, in which compliance is Improve the standards of living of residents of the Media reported regarding the Environmental Management Luna communities in the vicinity of Puerto Bolívar by way Plan regulations, and the air quality is monitored. of housing-improvement programs and opportunities for income generation, and exercising citizenship. Sector Programs in Social Areas for Communities Programs Providing training in entrepreneurship for local Healthcare craftsmen, and ensuring improvements in the Objective quality of fabric handwoven bags and hammocks Make the services rendered by the State more accessible of SENA-Cerrejón, in conjunction with the Waüye for the population in the AI, increasing their coverage and Corporation agreement for social oversight. Training quality, and strengthening the institutions responsible for in entrepreneurship and improvement of the fabric of this task in order to achieve their sustainability. handwoven bags and hammocks of SENA-Cerrejón, Achievements in 2010 Community Engagement within the Waüye Corporation agreement for social oversight; housing design projects for the communities 55,087 healthcare activities* were carried out in of Pioula and Pioule; handicraft project agreement communities along the railway and in communities in the with the Creata Foundation; sustainable development vicinity of the Mine and Puerto Bolívar, in the municipalities programs and the Goat-raising project, in partnership of Albania, Hatonuevo, Maicao, Barrancas, and Uribia, with the Cerrejón Foundation Indigenous Guajira; for the purpose of providing general and specialized community engagement activities; consolidation of medical care, as well as dental care, and the delivery of environmental oversight. medicine with an investment of $1,153 million. 42 Sustainability Report 2010 Education Recreation, Culture, and Sports Objective Objective In association with authorities and representatives of • Promote and strengthen the academic achievements the educational community, we organized strategies of children in the region and foster healthy co-existence and projects aimed at raising the quality and access for the sake of their emotional and intellectual growth. to education for children, youth, professionals, and teachers in municipalities in the mine’s area of influence. Achievements 2010 • The 10th Cerrejón Department Football Tournament Achievements 2010 Talented Youth was held in La Guajira and benefited 600 children. The Cerrejón Neighbouring • Agreement SENA-Cerrejón Foundation for Progress Communities Tournament was held with the in La Guajira. In 2010, 30 of the young people participation of 180 children and 80 indigenous enrolled in the electromechanics program (2009) and communities. began their work stage with an apprentice’s contract; • The Sports Popularization program involved the 59 students in the programs of Environmental participation of over 2,000 children from different Management System and Project Execution finished communities in talks given by Arnoldo Iguarán, a their courses; and 33 students entered the technical famous Colombian former footballer, to promote program for diesel motor maintenance. education and sports in Guajiro youth. The Naves play school in Barrancas was inaugurated • One hundred and thirty youths participated in as part of the Cerrejón-Day of the Child Corporation workshops given by the National Symphonic accord. This is the fourth municipality to be thus Orchestra of Colombia, which visited the Mine. endowed, after Fonseca, Albania, and Uribia. • Performance by the Cerrejón Symphonic Orchestra • Cerrejón Scholarships for Excellence. This is (comprising 90 children) at the International Mining the sixth consecutive year for this program, which Show 2010, held in Medellin. The Orchestra has financed higher-education studies for 60 young also gave four educational concerts in Fonseca, Community Engagement people in different Colombian universities. Riohacha, and Villanueva, which were attended by • Fulbright-Cerrejón Scholarship for La Guajira. over 2,000 people. Third scholarship awarded to a Guajiro for • Launching of the ORFF program (in music initiation) contributing to the department’s socio-economic and in the communities of Media Luna (Puerto Bolívar) cultural development. and Tabaco (Hatonuevo), and ongoing sessions in Roche, Patilla, Chancleta, Hatonuevo, Oreganal, and Guamachito. Sustainability Report 2010 43 “With Cerrejón, we have undertaken activities regarding water solutions. For instance, in my community, last year they commissioned a well to be dug in my community. I am thankful to Cerrejón for this. I am truly deeply thankful for this water solution because these are the priority needs communities have, not just Jisentirra, which I represent, but in general. That is why I once again thank Cerrejón since I know that this solves some of the water problems in my community.” Ricaurte Henríquez. Leader of the Jisentirra community, at kilometre 83 of the railway to the Port. Wayuunaiki translation: Aya’tashi waya Sümaa Cerrejón, süchirua wachajain sükuwaipa wuin, süpüla e’injatuin wanepia ya ere kepian taya; so’u juya alatakat a’ijunüsü wane laa süpülaa wayuu waimaa. Talatüushi taya süma makalaka sain tüü süka shiain choujain main wamuin tü wuinkat, nnojotsü shiain Jisentira anainjatuin sümuiwa sütüma, sümuin jatü Wayuu süpüshuwaya pejepünakat sünain, sükaa e’ipain wuinkat wama’ana anoutasü wakuaipa sutuma. Anayawatsüjaa sutuma Cerrejón süka shi’itain wuin wamuin. Ricaurte Henríquez. Leader of the Jisentirra community, at kilometre 83 of the railway to the Port. • The compensation program (impact responses) was designed for Roche and reviewed together with the Communal Action Committee, resident families, and Indepaz (as an independent community advisor). • The construction of the Roche housing and community infrastructure was completed in September. • The Las Casitas housing and infrastructure Resettlements construction at the new site was delayed by the With all resettlement processes, the strategic aim slowness of the municipality of Barrancas in is always to promote the standards of living of those reviewing its Land Use Plan, a legal requirement for in the affected community. This is achieved through issuing the building permit. proactively preparing a response plan to the impacts • The design for the spatial distribution of the Tamaquito of the relocation process, and thereby allows the II housing community was completed with the support communities to lead their own long-term development. of a contractor experienced in indigenous issues. This In all community resettlement processes, we follow the was to ensure any cultural considerations which may performance guidelines laid out by the International affect the Wayuu community were accounted for. Finance Corporation (IFC) of the World Bank. Challenges in 2011 In accordance with the Mining Plan analysis, in • In the second quarter, have the impact analyses 2010 we continued forward with five collective reflected in the compensation proposal of the Patilla resettlement projects in the communities of Roche, community for their relocation. Las Casitas, Tamaquito II, Patilla, and Chancleta. • Ensure that the Chancleta, Las Casitas, and Tamaquito They are all located in the municipality of Barrancas II processes follow in the same wake in order to reach in the department of La Guajira. final agreements for their relocation. • Successfully relocate the 25 Roche families to the new site. Main Progress in 2010 • Build the Tamaquito II housing and infrastructure and make headway with the infrastructure works for • The socioeconomic baselines were updated and building the Las Casitas housing. announced to the five resettlement communities. • Reach relocation agreements with Patilla community • The resettlement impact assessments were residents and make headway in negotiations with the undertaken jointly with Roche and Patilla. communities of Chancleta, Las Casitas, and Tamaquito II. Julián B. González, Vice President of Sustainability and Public Affairs, Jairo Vergara, Manager of Social Responsibility, Community Engagement and Angélica Gómez, Communications Division, during the announcement of the zoning study on the La Liga property. Tamaquito community, November 2010. Sustainability Report 2010 45 Report on Progress in Resettlement Goals COMMUNITY: GOALS 2010 PERCENTAGE 2010 OBSERVATIONS CHALLENGES IN 2011 Finish construction of housing Finished in September 2011 Relocate the 25 resident families and infrastructure Sign agreements with family units Process postponed to first Relocate the 25 resident families for relocation to new site half of 2011 Roche Constitute the administrative board Cooperative board administers Organize office for collection and for public services aqueduct and sewage system control of services Respond to community claims Solution pending on claim Resolve dead cattle and requirements for dead cattle Finish community infrastructure Finished Build housing and infrastructure designs and begin construction and agree on Patilla relocation Hire the consulting firm for identifying Modified the strategy for Contract management assistance Patilla and and starting up production production project management for production projects based Chancleta projects with communities on revised strategy Respond to community claims Solution of Chancleta claims Improve Chancleta community cohesion and requirements pending Reach agreements on Under development Make headway in the construction housing and infrastructure of housing and infrastructure and begin definitive designs Tamaquito II Respond to community Resolved with the reception and Build housing and infrastructure claims and requirements payment of land purchased and agree on relocation for the relocation Determine number of Finished Agree on compensation families for resettlement program Establish criteria and Finished Undertake pilot production final resettlement site projects at new site Agree on designs Finished Make headway in housing and infrastructure construction Las Casitas at new site Respond to community The population and topography Resolve all complaints filed claims and requirements studies were delayed due to in relation with the resettlement hold-ups in agreements with the impacted population Housing and infrastructure Delays in the approval of the Obtain building permit for housing Land Use Plan of Barrancas and infrastructure and begin construction Participation of Patilla community in the housing design for the new settlement site. Patilla, April 2010. Community Engagement “The resettlement process was put together by Cerrejón and the community. It’s a good process. For my family it’s a good process. We are pleased, we are at ease. That there were mistakes, well yes. I think that, like in everything, I think there were mistakes on both sides. I think that the community needed to stand together from the beginning, to agree more amongst ourselves. It would have been much better for the process, for all of us to be happy. Anyway, the process is happening and now the idea is for all of us to be happy, for all of us to say it has been a good process and to feel at ease”. Maricruz Salcedo. Worker at the administrative board of the Roche public services company. Sustainable Development Human Rights “The respect for human rights creates a better climate for our work and the compliance with standards to do so gives our business added value”. Carlos Franco Manager of Social Standards and International Relations. Objectives • Train private security contractors in the application of standards derived from the Voluntary Principles on Safety and Human Rights. • Establish indicators to assess implementation of the Voluntary Principles.Based on these indicators, to draw up a baseline on the performance of the private security, of the public security forces associated with operational security, and of our Security Department. • Publicize the Complaints Office, its principles, and its means of access; perfect its technological tool for complaints management; and train people in information collection for complaints handling. • Study our operation’s social impacts on the area of influence from the standpoint of human rights. • Draw up a set of indicators to assess the impact results and the training in Community complaints service. human rights. • Promote human rights in the I neighbouring communities. n the course of our operation, we ensure we respect the Goals in 2010 human rights of our workers, contractors, and communities. • Train 821 private security personnel, In 2010, we concentrated on strengthening our work in the 74% of the 2010 goal. Voluntary Principles on Safety and Human Rights and on • Achieve the attendance of 2,023 people the implementation of the Complaints Office pilot conducted to events showcasing the Complaints with the cooperation of the team of Professor John Ruggie, Office. special representative to the Secretary General of the • Draw up the study on social impacts. United Nations for human rights and businesses. • Promote human rights in nine events with 813 people, 81% of the 2010 goal. Human Rights 48 Sustainability Report 2010 Challenges in 2011 • Review the human rights policy and adapt it to the United Nations framework to protect, respect, and remedy. • Implement the human rights commission agreed upon with the trade union. • Monitor performance with the indicators established. • Train the public security forces in application of the Voluntary Principles. • Hold workshops with communities to assess performance in undertaking security and protection work. • Consolidate the Complaints Office and provide it with technical and human resources; spread information about its existence and access points; systematize lessons learned; streamline complaints response. • Finish drawing up training indicators and apply them in order to establish a baseline. • Adjust the human rights training strategy based on the assessment results. • Choose actions to mitigate social impacts and execute them. • Validate the impact and measures study with the communities. Voluntary Principles on Security and Human Rights In undertaking the Human Rights Program, the • The courses focused on the Universal Declaration following activities were performed in 2010 to of Human Rights, the international standard of implement the principles: the Voluntary Principles on Security and Human Rights, our corporate policy, and on the activities Training in Human Rights of the human rights program. • Sixteen meetings during shift changes of 926 • We promoted greater knowledge in human rights private security guards to present the main Wayuu in the communities in the area of influence through cultural customs. The aim was to promote better joint work with the Red Cross, La Guajira section, relations between the two groups and to prevent by holding nine play workshops (children’s songs possible negative impacts, particularly with the and puppet shows). communities along the length of the railroad tracks. • In 2010, we gave 23 training hours in general • Our two private security contractors that provide issues of the Universal Declaration of Human security for the mining complex signed Appendix Rights and the international standard of the E, in addition to Appendix D, concerning the Voluntary Principles on Security and Human international standard of the Voluntary Principles Rights, and on the human rights corporate policy, on Security and Human Rights. covering 15.14% of employees. This figure is lower • In 2010, we evaluated the 2009 training by compared to the 108 training hours and coverage the private security companies to 997 of their (43.92% of employees) reported in 2009. employees and decided to train them ourselves. Twenty-two workshops were held at which 821 people were trained out of a target of 1,100, equivalent to 74% of all security guards. The aim was to improve their relations with the Wayuu communities in the framework of the Voluntary Principles on Security and Human Rights. • In compliance with one of the recommendations by the Third Party Review Panel, we hired the Resource Centre for Conflict Analysis (CERAC, its acronym in Spanish) to prepare indicators to measure the results of human rights training we have held since 2005. The set of indicators will be applied in 2011, and it will allow us to assess and redesign this strategy. • We held 111 sessions (comprising a total of 140 work hours and 4,408 people) with members of the National Army, employees, school children, employees of private security company contractors, and Tabaco community members. Workshops for private security firms to improve their engagement with Wayuu communities, using the framework of the Voluntary Principles on Security and Human Rights. Sustainability Report 2010 49 With regard to forced labour, we strictly comply with Chapter V of our internal regulations on employment, which is based on the Substantive Labour Code provisions on work days and shift work. This stipulates In 2010, commercial transactions with suppliers totalled 500. There were no violations of human rights detected in any of these. that the maximum legally permitted working day is between 6:00 am and 10:00 pm during the day, and at night between 10:00 pm and 6:00 am. None of our employees work more than 48 hours per week (42 on average) and all work is voluntary. Compliance with these hours is checked with all employees, and under Creation of Indicators for the no circumstances are their ID cards retained or their free Implementation of Voluntary Principles movement restricted. Thanks to this commitment, there Application of indicators for the implementation of were no recorded issues to report, either in 2009 or 2010. Voluntary Principles developed by Cerrejón, Oxy, and the NGO International Alert for the Mining and Energy In addition, we have corporate guidelines on shift work Committee on Security and Human Rights (CME, its designed for contractors, in which we clearly state the acronym in Spanish). This activity gave us a baseline criteria they should take into account when establishing for applying these principles and developing a strategy shift patterns, and the requirements that must, by law, to improve our performance in this area. be fulfilled with regard to voluntary work. Management of Child Labour and Forced Supplier and Contractor Commitment to Labour Risks Respect Human Rights As part of our policy of social and employment We enter into commitments with our contractors responsibility, compliance with employment legislation requiring that they not use child labour or forced labour, and international regulations on child labour and or act against the right to freedom of association, forced labour is an express requirement. Respect according to the stipulations in Appendix D of the for children’s rights is explicit in chapter XVII of our contract they sign with Cerrejón for the provision or sale internal work regulations, and article 104 states: “The of goods and services. Company will not use child labour, which means children below the age of 15.” Within this context, In 2010 there were commercial transactions with there is no potential risk of child exploitation, given 500 suppliers. No violations of Human Rights were that article 105 establishes the following: “Work that identified in any of these. In addition, 101 new contracts is prohibited for women and children between fifteen were signed, of which one hundred per cent of suppliers (15) and eighteen (18) years of age: the company accepted the corporate policies on Human Rights will not employ women, regardless of age, or minors contained in Appendix D. between fifteen (15) and eighteen (18), in activities that In the process of verifying respect for Human Rights Human Rights are expressly prohibited or in working conditions that by our suppliers, the employment practices of 20 imply risks for their health and safety as determined companies and 8 co-operatives were audited. Of these by legislation. (…) In all cases, the company strictly 20 companies, 10 were also checked for compliance applies the law referring to prohibited work for women with clause 6 of the SOI (occupational medicine and and minors (…).” industrial hygiene). 50 Sustainability Report 2010 Implementation of the Cerrejón Complaints Office Throughout 2010, we continued to develop the complaints mechanism in line with the principles and recommendations of John Ruggie, United Nations Special Representative for Business and Human Rights. The technology tool we use was put to the test for an entire year following receipt of the first real complaints. In addition, we developed a manual for the Complaints Office on procedures to be followed, and we made changes to the tool to improve the follow-up of each case logged in order to guarantee security of information. The pilot included the design of a dynamic dashboard, which allows members of the Complaints Response Committees to obtain a detailed update on case reports, trends, and on the identification of priority and serious issues and to enable their swift resolution. In parallel, we carried out activities to introduce the Complaints Office to employees, contractors, and communities. During outreach meetings on the Expansion Project, the Complaints Office was introduced to 1,789 members of communities along the length of the railroad tracks. In addition, 234 employees attended training sessions. Discrimination Incidents In 2010, Cerrejón’s Complaints Office logged six formal complaints of discrimination. These data are not available for 2009 given that the Office was just being set up at that time. Formal Complaints on Indigenous Rights Received by the Complaints Office • Three accidents involving persons on the railroad tracks; in each, the indigenous people were found to be under the influence of alcohol. • Thirty-eight incidents on the railroad tracks involving animals. • Nine official complaints referring to restriction of movement. • Seven incidents relating to security services. • Five complaints relating to the area designated as a reserve at Puerto Bolívar in 1981. • Two environmental impacts by the operation. To obtain more information on the work of the Complaints Office, visit http://www.cerrejon. com/site/Default.aspx?tabid=121 The closure of any case investigated by the Cerrejón Complaints Office is based on the principles of “Protect, Respect, and Remedy” as proposed by Professor John Ruggie, the Special Representative of the Secretary General of the United Nations on Business and Human Rights. Sustainable Development Foundations System “The Foundations System is a tool through which Cerrejón effectively and positively contributes to the sustainable development of La Guajira, promoting business enterprise, training public servants and communities in strengthening their institutions, offering the information needed to make rational and appropriate use of water, and contributing to the search for a better quality of life and the celebration of the ancestral values of ethnic peoples situated throughout the length and breadth of the department”. Julián B. González Vice President for Sustainability and Public Affairs Photo by Wilmer José Herrera. Cerrejón Photography Competition, La Guajira, 2010 T he Cerrejón Foundations System was created in 2008 to create impact in four areas related to La Guajira’s development: the promotion of business ventures, the integrated management of water resources, institutional strengthening, and support for indigenous communities. Within this conceptual framework, each foundation has developed a work scheme with its own objectives and challenges, each supported by both an independent and qualified management committee and the allocation of resources for the specific tasks of each initiative. In 2009, the foundations implemented social investment projects and programs to the value of approximately $7,000 million and in 2010 this figure increased by around 60%, with an estimated investment of $11,000 million*, which benefited around 20,000 Guajiros last year. The Cerrejón Foundations System comprises the Cerrejón Foundation for Water in La Guajira, the Cerrejón Foundation for Institutional Strengthening in La Guajira, the Cerrejón Foundation Indigenous Guajira, and the Cerrejón Foundation for Progress in La Guajira. Through these foundations, a total of 83 programs and projects were implemented in 2010. *This figure includes donations received from Cerrejón during 2010, others received from third parties, and amounts accruing from previous years. Foundations System To obtain further information on the Cerrejón Foundations System, visit www.fundacionescerrejon.org 52 Sustainability Report 2010 Cerrejón Foundation for Water in La Guajira Objective To be the best partner for La Guajira residents and the most widely recognized deliverer of social projects that are participative and sustainable, and aimed at promoting safe water supplies and the adaptation of communities to climate change. Challenges in 2011 • Implement 16 additional solutions for water supply. • Deliver training in sanitation, hygiene, and best practices in water use to around 1,500 people. • Embed a sustainability scheme for Implementation of SODIS, the solar water disinfection model. the maintenance of 56 windmills in Media Luna, September 2010. indigenous communities through the L creation of at least five water committees. • Design a school sanitation infrastructure adapted to the Wayuu cosmovision, a Guajira is considered one of the most arid and semiconstructed jointly with the educational arid zones in South America, with temperatures that reach community that will benefit 800 people. 45 ºC and an average rainfall of 500 millimetres per year. • More than 1,500 people will benefit from This means that safe water is a priority issue in terms of our the sustainability scheme at the Gran Vía social responsibility work. Reservoir, which will supply freshwater. The Cerrejón Foundation has defined three workstreams related to solutions for water supply, sanitation and For further information on the hygiene, and for the comprehensive management of water Cerrejón Foundation for Water in La resources. To ensure the success and continuity of these Guajira, consult initiatives, it has established results monitoring, follow-up, http://www.fundacionescerrejon.org/ and evaluation systems. secciones/FUNDCERRE/HOME/ FUNDACIONES/AQUA/QS/seccion_ HTML.jsp Foundations System Sustainability Report 2010 53 Cerrejón Foundation for Institutional Strengthening in La Guajira Objective The foundation’s mission is to work with Cerrejón and its Foundations System in achieving transparent, efficient, and effective management of public institutions within the La Guajira department and the subsequent empowerment of its civil society, thereby helping to advance the fair and sustainable development of the region and the peaceful coexistence of its citizens. Challenges in 2011 • Involve 280 young people from 24 Training on Royalties for Overseers and Leaders. educational institutions and four municipalities in citizen participation projects R and the oversight of royalty investment. • Implement transparency agreements and audits on royalty use totalling $49,000 oyalties derived from non-renewable natural resources million across the municipalities of Uribia, constitute a single and transitory opportunity to support Barrancas, Hatonuevo, and Albania. social investment that could result in better standards • Execute technical assistance and of living for La Guajira inhabitants. The importance of training programs for eleven social promoting transparent and efficient investment of mining oversight groups in indigenous and royalties was the originating aim of the Cerrejón Foundation non-indigenous communities from four for Institutional Strengthening in La Guajira. The foundation municipalities in order to ensure the was established with the goal of consolidating local and effective oversight of social investment public institutions with the participation of civil society in programs financed with royalties. overseeing regional financial resources. • Improve planning and investment The purpose of the foundation is therefore the promotion of capability in the municipality of Fonseca exemplary institutional management by local government with the support of the Ford Foundation and authorities in the department of La Guajira and in and Acción Social. processes for the planning, execution, and evaluation • Work together on the construction of of the public matters they are accountable for. The three Court Houses and the training foundation attempts to champion informed and responsible of 70 arbitrators for fairness in order to participation by the citizens and communities of La Guajira widen access to justice for indigenous in those decisions that directly affect them. This is achieved and non-indigenous people in Riohacha, through four workstreams: Barrancas, and Uribia. • Citizen participation and social oversight of royalty investment. For further information on the • Modernization of town halls and other territorial Cerrejón Foundation for Institutional administrative entities. Strengthening in La Guajira, consult • Education in public administration and opinion forming. http://www.fundacionescerrejon.org/ • Access to justice and alternative means of conflict resolution. secciones/FUNDCERRE/HOME/ FUNDACIONES/FOR/QS/seccion_ HTML.jsp Foundations System 54 Sustainability Report 2010 Cerrejón Foundation Indigenous Guajira Objective To collaborate with the indigenous people of La Guajira in developing sustainable opportunities and standards of living in their communities. This will be achieved within a framework of sustainable development, through driving business investment, strengthening existing institutions, contributing to the conservation of natural resources and reinforcing the cultural The Foundation seeks to advance the comprehensive and cultural development of heritage of these communities. ethnic groups within the department, which represent 44% of the population of La Guajira and which are an invaluable asset for Colombia and the rest of the world. Challenges in 2011 • Expand the coverage of food security programs (35% for the indigenous population located in the AI of the railroad tracks, benefiting 250 Wayuu families. • Establish five new micro-businesses for handicraft production within the Wiwa and Kogui communities. • Extend the Safe Territory program, which aims to minimize accidents on the railroad tracks (35% of communities adjacent to the tracks). • Extend the Asawa Apiculture program by The Foundation supports the offerings ceremonies as these represent one of the most important spiritual offerings for the four 30% amongst the Wayuu. ancestral peoples of the Sierra Nevada. • Work towards covering up to 20% of the Cabo de La Vela, La Guajira, July 2010 total foundation budget from State or T international cooperation institutions. he indigenous population of La Guajira represents For further information on the more than 40% of department inhabitants, a percentage Cerrejón Foundation Indigenous that comprises ethnic Wayuu, Wiwa, and Kogui. The Guajira, consult http://www. foundation supports and encourages innovative and fundacionescerrejon.org/ sustainable initiatives to strengthen the social fabric secciones/FUNDCERRE/HOME/ of indigenous communities settled in La Guajira and FUNDACIONES/INDI/QS/seccion_ contributes to improved use and conservation of their HTML.jsp natural resources. Foundations System Sustainability Report 2010 55 Cerrejón Foundation for Progress in La Guajira Hotel Waya Guajira, a tourist complex with investment rising to $23,000 million. Objective The mission of the Cerrejón Foundation for Progress in La Guajira is to generate economic growth in the department through the promotion of national and international investment. This economic growth will generate the creation of sustainable businesses that will last beyond current mining activity in the region. The hotel occupies 8,100 m2, and consists of140 rooms and 17 traditional lodges with 102 hammocks designed for eco-tourism. It has a swimming pool, spa, restaurants, and a convention hall. Challenges in 2011 • Make progress in the construction of the T Hotel Waya Guajira. • Begin the construction of the La Guajira Interactive Museum. he foundation promotes economic development in the • Produce the pilot program’s first potato area through creating and strengthening local employment harvest. generating companies. These schemes are sustainably • Start the agreement with the consortium developed in such a manner so as to outlast any current responsible for the construction of the mining contracts. To achieve this aim, it invests financial, tyre and plastic recycling plant. technical, and human resources to support the communities own resources. In doing so, the foundation works with For more information on the other national and international agencies to help foster an Cerrejón Foundation for Progress entrepreneurial, business culture within the community. in La Guajira, please go to http:// www.fundacionescerrejon.org/ The foundation has defined three streams of activity: secciones/FUNDCERRE/HOME/ agricultural projects, tourism development, and the FUNDACIONES/PROG/QS/seccion_ industrial sector in La Guajira. HTML.jsp Foundations System 56 Sustainability Report 2010 Sustainable Development Human Capital “A collective thanks to all Cerrejón workers for what we have built and achieved together, and for everyone´s commitment. Thanks for being Cerrejón!” . Philip Potdevin Human Capital Manager Objective To create the necessary organizational conditions to attract, motivate, train, develop, and maintain the ideal human talent. At the same time, to provide a sufficient guarantee of the knowledge and conditions required to deliver world class operational standards so that our team members can enjoy an excellent work environment. Goals in 2010 • Continue the internalization of our identity At Cerrejón we consider compliance with national and international legislation absolutely and culture organizational model, the essential, particularly in the areas of; child labour, forced labour, health and safety Cerrejón Way, to raise awareness in our at work, freedom of association, the right to collective bargaining, discrimination, disciplinary measures, working hours, and remuneration. technical employees, their families, and contractors. A • Drive the safety value through the Cerrejón Way throughout all supervisory levels and those responsible for contract t Cerrejón, our human capital management administration. is designed so that our people are one of the • Strengthen the evaluation and followorganization’s most important assets. We have four up system for employees and their key workstreams for employee development: development plans. • Implement a flexible benefits strategy. • Organizational culture, aligned with the values and principles of the Cerrejón Way. • Improvement in performance standards through training Cerrejón Leadership Model programs, development plans, and clear processes for evaluation and follow-up. • Recognizing individual and team successes. • Building ever-closer relationships with workers and their families in order to contribute to a good work environment. To obtain more information on our human To understand more about our capital policies, see http://www.cerrejon. leadership model, visit http://www. com/site/Default.aspx?tabid=117 cerrejon.com/site/Default. aspx?tabid=383 Human Capital Sustainability Report 2010 57 Challenges in 2010 • Continue with the development of programs focused on strengthening leadership in safety culture. • Strengthening the leadership culture, empowerment, self-control, independence, and trust in order to consolidate the principles of the Cerrejón Way. • Redesign and implement the Individual Development Program (IDP) in line with current business needs, the needs of the market, and worker expectations in order to maintain a competitive workforce. • Implement programs focused on improved relationships between the management of Human Capital and employees. • Improve productivity indicators by relocating workers with limitations in workforce reintegration processes. • Generate high-quality scientific knowledge so that our occupational health programs are an example to the entire mining industry sector. Our Human Resources In 2010, our resources totalled 9,537 people, including contractors as well as employees. The statistics related to our people are as follows: Distribution of the Workforce By Contract and by Type of Work Of the 5,204 people employed directly by the company, 4,332 were technical staff, all of which had appropriate levels of supervision, and 872 were professional staff, corresponding to 83.2% and 16.8% respectively. In 2009, these percentages were similar. Of the total number of employees, 991 were temporary (19%), 945 technical and 46 professional. All our directly employed staff work full-time, and the majority BY CONTRACT TYPE have an indefinite employment contract. Only a small percentage of these are personnel from temporary staff agencies that are licensed to provide replacements for employees on staff. Age Profile The 2009 trend was maintained, with most employees between the range of 41 and 50 years old, covering 1,905 employees (1,614 technicians and 291 professionals). There were 982 employees between the ages of 21 and 30 years (854 technicians and 128 professionals). There were 7 technical employees below 21 years of age, and 1,162 employees who were between 31 and 40 years of age (972 technicians and 190 professionals). BY EMPLOYMENT TYPE There were 1,131 employees between 51 and 60 years of age, and 17 above the age of 60 (12 technicians and 5 professionals). Of the total number of employees, 22 were part of Senior Management (president, vice presidents, and managers), 13 of which were between 51 and 60 years of age, and 79 were heads of division, mostly within the same age range. Human Capital BY AGE 58 Sustainability Report 2010 By Gender EMPLOYEES BY GENDER 2008-2010 In 2010, 5.9% of employees were women (306), 15 more than in 2009, and 94.1% were men (4,898), 7 more than the previous year. A greater percentage of men filled technical roles, while the majority of women worked in professional functions. By Origin As part of our diversity policy, we support the employment of qualified personnel who are from our area of influence. Therefore, in 2010 we hired 602 people, of which 388 were operational personnel, and of these, 46% were from surrounding communities. In 2010, there were 3,201 employees from the department of La Guajira (of which 206 are Wayuu), which equates to 6.4% of employees from La Guajira. 1,460 employees EMPLOYEES BY POSITION 2010 came from the Atlantic Coast, and 539 from the rest of the country. We recruited four employees from abroad. By Service Out of the total employees, 2,097 have more than 20 years’ service. This means that 40.2% have been working 20 years or more in the company. Those with 3 to 5 years’ service represent 17%, with this category representing the second-largest servicelength group. BY ORIGIN BY LENGTH OF SERVICE Human Capital Alexander Gómez and Moisés Augusto Gómez, father and son, a family united around Cerrejón. Sustainability Report 2010 59 Average Turnover In 2009, there was an average total turnover of 3.4%, and in 2010 there was an average of 2.7% *Voluntary departure of employees with high development potential or that occupy critical positions within the company. Turnover by Gender Men have the highest turnover, at 2.4%, belonging mostly to the professional group. For women, the turnover was 0.3%, which is substantially less than in 2009. Amongst male and female departures, 11 were regretted. Turnover by Age Range Turnover diminished in all age ranges, with the exception of the 21-30 age range, in which there were seven more departures than in 2009. The highest turnover occurred in the 51–60 age range (1.2%) due to generational turnover, which is a significant decrease with respect to 2009. Turnover by Region Employees recruited from the rest of the country registered the highest turnover rate, followed by those from the Atlantic Coast, with a turnover of 2.7% (112 people). Human Capital We are committed to the comprehensive development of our employees, a commitment that forms an essential part of Cerrejón’s work, along with the adoption of national legislation and applicable labour and social rights. Through the 20/20 program, we attract professional and skilled young people from the region to prepare them as the talent base for the generational turnover that we began some years ago in the company. Attraction and Selection of Talent for Cerrejón This initiative, established as a response to generational turnover needs of the Hiring of Senior Executives and Employees company of the company, is aimed at 20 Open applications is the means of offering employment mobility professionals under 30 years of age. The to workers. On the other hand, we also select and recruit initiative allows these recruits to contribute employees externally based on their personal, educational, their creative potential to the company and professional merits, giving priority to those who are from through discipline and dedication, and it is our areas of influence. Our equal opportunity policy maintains hoped these innovative ideas contribute all applicants are considered without regard for race, religious to the continued progress of Cerrejón. affiliation, origin, sexual orientation, gender, or age. Program Characteristics 20/20 Program • 18-month contracts, during which time This program provides qualified young professionals with focused they have two assignments. training, allowing them to develop their skills and knowledge at • Allocation of a permanent mentor. Cerrejón contributing to the achievement of business goals and • Development plan: training and the targets in their respective areas. establishment of performance objectives for each assignment. • The possibility of competing in selection processes for company employees. We provide equal opportunity employment, in line with relevant legislation, for individuals qualified to perform the work. Sustainability Report 2010 61 Remuneration Our compensation philosophy is orientated towards a remuneration package that allows us to attract, retain, and reward our people. The basic principles are: competitiveness, pay for level of responsibility, performance, and skills; fairness; management of poor performance; bonuses commensurate with performance; accountability; non-financial recognition; and employee development. We are recognized for maintaining high operational standards and for the benefits we provide our employees. Salary increases are above the consumer price index (CPI), and the current statutory monthly minimum wage (SMMLV, its acronym in Spanish). Currently, an operator/technician earns a minimum base salary of $1,448.000, which is 181% more than the SMMLV for 2010. None of our employees are paid at the SMMLV level. Salary Differential between Men and Women Although women have fairly recently entered Cerrejón at the technicians’ level, our remuneration policy seeks to ensure that they have equal compensation and benefits to those of men. *Cases in which the average salary for men was less than for women. N/A: There are no women in these positions. In 2010, women’s salaries, as a percentage of men’s, were higher. Salaries below 100% refer to those where the average salary for women was above those of men. Salary differences are in line with employees’ service and experience. Our objective is to minimize differences through the implementation of policies Human Capital for new employees. More than 2,000 people are responsible for ensuring that Cerrejón’s production team is ready to guarantee normal and efficient operations. 62 Sustainability Report 2010 Promotion In order to motivate the holistic individual development, in 2008 the open applications policy was approved, covering technical and professional vacancies at levels 1 and 2. In 2008, there were 30 internal postings for open application, which resulted in the selection of 17 employees, 8 technical and 9 professional. In 2009, there were 31 internal postings for open application and 14 employees were selected. In 2010, there were 20 postings from which 10 employees were selected, which represents 50%. Training and Development Coverage In 2010, we worked hard to strengthen safety training for middle levels in Cerrejón (superintendents and supervisors). There is consequently an average of around 56 hours of classroom training per employee during the year. To support this development mechanism, we have established several training programs in the skills required for technology change and the evolution of our business. In addition, we exceeded the number of training hours planned for 2010, especially in management instruction (supervision) and OIS (safety). The proposal is to strengthen capability in functional roles in 2011. Human Capital Sustainability Report 2010 63 Training Programs The skills identified and strengthened in the program Cerrejón Leader Program modules are taken into account in performance This program covers training in managerial skills and evaluations and, over time, they are integrated into is based on the Cerrejón Leadership Model (MLC, its the Individual Development Plan (PDI, its acronym acronym in Spanish). Senior and middle management in Spanish). is the target population. A total of 396 people took the program in 2010. Its four guiding principles are: Leadership in Safety This initiative from Human Capital and Safety Decrease in gaps between the MLC, the Great Place to Work (GPTW) Involvement of senior responds to operational needs by causing changes in survey, and managerial needs. management in the project. individual and collective culture in order to establish Creation of spaces for individual Participation of business partners as safety as a value in all company operations, a definite growth and responsibility for his Coaches of participants in owning or her own development. their development plans. respect for the rules, adherence to procedures, and effective compliance. SENA Accord This agreement signed with the SENA aims to This program aims to foster a review of awareness strengthen the company’s levels of productivity, levels and value scales in supervisors so that they competitiveness, and technological development. It are able to shoulder their responsibilities and actively is founded on the following training lines: participate in the process. It also aims to generate ongoing, sustained improvement in each production • Senior management. Updating of managerial unit through effectiveness in leadership and its skills skills to optimize strategic decision-making. The as multipliers of safe behaviours. target was professional staff (tactical and strategic) involved in decision-making. SENA contributed The program focuses on developing skills related $1,000 million. to safety and leadership while also implementing • SENA-Cerrejón Training. This training covers mentoring and coaching for supervisors, personal our workers’ needs for technological updates. It acting and contractors. The program premises are: is aimed exclusively at operational personnel and • Visible and exemplary leadership has a direct had a SENA contribution of $450 million. impact on the company’s safety culture. • The support of the work group of each program participant aids in an initial diagnosis indicating Essential Leadership how the supervisor is perceived. This training program is aimed at encouraging • Work starts from being so it is reflected in doing behavioural changes in our technical workers to • Each supervisor needs a development plan in create a culture of greater empowerment, self-control, which the boss actively participates. participation, and trust, which is then projected out • The role of assistance and consultancy needs into the family, community, and work environment. strengthening in safety analysts, Operational By training through the simulator, apprentices can perform all the operational tasks. Integrity coordinators, and Training Centre Research Programs instructors. • The program should spark participant interest in Cerrejón–Colciencias Financing of learning the technical details of the position in order Research Projects to be more accurate in their management. Cerrejón and Colciencias (Administrative Department • We seek to strengthen accountability. of Science, Technology, and Innovation) signed a Framework Accord for Technical Cooperation in In 2010, 40 events initiated by the program took 2008. The goal is to join technical, administrative, place (6 for mentor groups and 34 for participants), and financial forces in order to: with a total attendance of 843 participants. a) Support research, technological development, and innovation to solve needs and implement Talent Pool new technologies in the Colombian mining and This program is designed to identify key company energy sector. positions requiring special attention, both on a managerial b) Support projects for the innovation and level and on a decision-making level, and the degree of improvement of energy-generation processes technical specialization needed. allowing the implementation of mechanisms tending to reduce greenhouse gas emissions Through the performance evaluation, we identify people (GHG). whose contribution and skill development mean they are part of Cerrejón’s talent pool and could therefore occupy In 2010, Colciencias and Cerrejón joined technical, key organization positions. Program benefits include administrative, and financial forces to once again structuring specialized development plans for persons (2011) call for eligible projects. from the talent pool, and focusing on the maintenance and development of skills needed by the company. The projects must be orientated to resolving needs and developing new technologies in the mining and The main benefit of this new process is to create retaining energy sector, as well as to improving the technical, programs that promote the growth and permanence of an operational, and financial performance of Cerrejón adequate talent pool prepared to address organizational and of the nation. They must fall within the following changes. thematic lines: • Regulation for alternative methods of mining Tecnocerrejón exploitation: underground coal gasification Nearly three years ago, Tecnocerrejón was created (UCG), coal bed methane (CBM), and so on. to address the technical skills development of our • Boost business opportunities arising from the operators and technicians through two motivators: production of coal-based activated carbon in • Technical Knowledge Learning Center La Guajira. (Tecklec) supports generational turnover and • Develop technological innovations to improve skills certification in our operators and technicians. measurement of the environmental impact of • Junior College strengthens the long-term Cerrejón’s mining operation. Design of receptor sustainability of La Guajira by generating human models for the analysis of air-quality data. capital for the private and public sectors in • Biofuels: Development of the Jatropha curcas technical, technological, specialist, and postin La Guajira. graduate levels. It also aims to improve the quality of the Tecklec Achievements. The projects selected will be co-financed (60% Cerrejón, 40% Colciencias). Tecklec achievements • Start-up of apprenticeship management system. Development of: • Curriculum of Tecnocerrejón pre-engineering and preparatory. • Methodology of capturing critical knowledge to deal with the generational turnover. • Methodology for online mining courses. • Online course for a mining truck model. Human Capital Sustainability Report 2010 65 Chemicals Management Program Benefits Programs The handling of chemical substances entrains We offer supplementary benefits for staff on payroll, numerous health and environmental hazards. Training including a comprehensive healthcare plan, a our workers in the handling of the identification and comprehensive insurance plan, the company savings communication systems for chemical substances plan, a housing loan, and an educational assistance is fundamental to ensure the safe use of these plan for workers. Benefits for disability and maternity materials and the identification of any hazards they are also provided for the professional and technical may be subsequently exposed to. groups, such as a disability aid and a 16-day paid leave for mothers in the eighth month of pregnancy This program aims to supply basic knowledge for who travel to the settlements daily. All employees interpreting, recognizing, and identifying the chemical have disability insurance of 48 basic salaries, payable substances used and controlled by the company. upon receiving disability pension for a loss of work It also seeks to provide certain tools which enable capacity of over 50%. participants to handle such hazardous substances safely by establishing strict protocols which they must All Cerrejón employees enjoy the same benefits, with comply to. This is to control, and therefore avoid, any the exception of temporary workers, who receive fatal risks which may arise from the handling of any neither the variable bonus nor the housing loan. dangerous substances. Relations with Workers Recognition and Benefits Mechanisms for Employees to Submit Suggestions Performance Management The company has a policy to promote a productive Personnel management processes have been work environment based on respect for individuals, revised in order to reflect the Cerrejón Way and diversity, and openness to each worker’s ideas. To that its leadership model. Planning, monitoring, and end, we accept feedback, different opinions and the assessment of performance (skills and KPIs) have expression of dissatisfaction or disagreements through been provided with technological tools. open, frank, relevant, appropriate, honest, and timely communications that result in mutual benefit. A formal performance assessment was given to 100% of professional personnel and to 90% of The main communications mechanisms for feedback are technical staff during the reporting period. the yearly strategy and results meetings with employees held in Bogota, the Mine, and Puerto Bolívar. Human Capital Children in the Operation Program. February 2010. Relations Division we had 3,390 direct workers affiliated with the union and 874 union The Employee Relations and Development members. That is, 82% of all Cerrejón employees benefit from Division was formed to create a direct the collective labour agreement, which means that one hundred communications channel with workers percent of our technical personnel gain from this agreement at through which we could listen and respond Cerrejón. to their concerns and needs and therefore increase their commitment to their work. In December 2010, we began a new session of labour bargaining This project includes involvement in with the union. It concluded in February 2011 with the signing of a workers’ daily problems, concerns, new collective labour agreement that will remain in force throughout and needs in order to understand them 2011 and 2012. It contains notable improvements in salary and and to ensure a response is offered to work conditions, as well as in benefits for all technical personnel. them, thereby increasing their general contribution. In 2010, there were no labour stoppages nor protest activities affecting company operations. We have a Development System for Technical Staff that lets workers grow We have policies of social responsibility, labour, and productive work and thereby contribute to company goals environments to prevent situations of persecution, harassment, and within the framework of Cerrejón’s vision discrimination for reasons of union membership, politics, origin, and fundamental values. In addition, race, religious affiliation, nationality, profession, work position or a plan is designed for each person that location, as well as any other act that might limit the freedom to join includes the skills to be developed to a union or enjoy it. reach his or her maximum potential in that position. This process orientates, supports, and stimulates a worker’s For more information on these policies, see efforts to expand his or her knowledge, http://www.cerrejon.com/site/Default.aspx?tabid=164 skills, and experience, increase their contributions to the company, and improve their employability. Health and Safety in the Collective Bargaining Agreement Pension Benefits The collective bargaining agreement includes company All our employees are covered by the coverage of 82% of the cost of prepaid medicine and health aid. country’s social security pension system, In addition, it includes a 65% subsidy in the nominal healthcare which provides a monthly pension plan cost and 100% of medications. payment once legal requirements are met. Employers contribute 12% of the Moreover, agreement has been reached on relocation due to base salary to the mandatory pension incapacity, union permits of one day a week for participation in plan and workers with 4%. Every member Copaso, and a system of travel expenses for employees and of our pensionable personnel, excluding their families. Furthermore, there is a services committee that foreigners and retirees, is covered by this meets monthly to deal with healthcare issues between Cerrejón system. Foreigners continue to pay in and the union. their country of origin since they are here on temporary assignment. For employees in the process of retiring, we have the Pensioners Program, which mainly aims to help workers conciliate their work record, advise on steps to obtain his or her pension, and reintegrate the person into social life through workshops. In addition, we have established retirement programs for those who are ill or near retirement. Respect for Workers’ Rights Human Capital As part of our commitment with workers’ fundamental rights, we value the rights of employees to join a trade union and to We are committed to the comprehensive development and collective bargaining. At the end of 2010, well-being of our workers. We consider compliance with national and international legislation on this issue to be crucial. Sustainability Report 2010 67 Members of the Directors Committee during a break in the Operational Integrity Assembly. Industrial Medicine Programs for work reinsertion of employees with limitations for returning to their habitual occupation We have re-incorporated and replaced 35 employees, some of whom had been out of the workforce for over three years. This process included comprehensive assessment, payment of disabilities, evaluation of non-approved positions for relocation, psychological-social support for workers and their families as well as for their supervisors. We organized physical fitness plans and in-situ check-up meetings on employee progress, which are controlled by the workers’ compensation insurance company (ARP, its acronym in Spanish), and confirmation of the persistence of limitations for employees re-occupying their regular post with handicaps. Human Capital Alexander Paroda during a break on the ready line of the Patilla pit. 68 Sustainability Report 2010 Women in the Operation We have continued improving our female employee policy. Various activities were introduced in 2010, such as establishing a bank of “temporary” positions filled by pregnant employees and implementing location adjustments to enable women to perform operational tasks, as well as raising awareness of these policies throughout the company. In December 2010, there were 306 women on the payroll, of which Training and Awareness-Raising in 164 occupy operational positions in the departments Relation to Serious Illnesses and of Maintenance, Production, Coal Handling, and Prevention Programs Operational Services in posts such as operators/ During 2010, the following support programs in technicians, operators of mining equipment (trucks education, training, prevention, risk control, and and shovels), supervisors, and superintendents. treatment of serious and occupational illness were carried out. Psychological-Social Risks • Strengthening the Epidemiological Monitoring An epidemiological monitoring system has been Program for the Prevention of Musculoskeletal designed and implemented with the aim of promoting Injury. the health and well-being of workers and identifying • Programs for the prevention of injury related to and strengthening safeguards that help prevent sleepiness and fatigue. harmful health effects resulting from psychosocial • Integrated System for the Management of Chemical risk. This system has been introduced across Risk, with the implementation of the Protocol for the whole operation and various activities have Fatal Risks Linked to Hazardous Substances. been implemented, including training those at the • Implementation of the Psychosocial Risk supervisory level in the use of software designed for Monitoring Program. recording employees´ psychosocial difficulties. • Program for Workplace Reintegration with comprehensive support for employees with chronic Integrated Chemical Risk System absenteeism. We are developing an integrated Chemical Risk • Healthy lifestyle at work and in the home. System in conjunction with ARP Positiva and • HIV/AIDS prevention. technical consultants who are experts in the subject • Awareness and prevention of epidemics within and widely recognized in the Country both for the area of influence (cholera, influenza, dengue their experience in industrial hygiene and for their fever, yellow fever). Participation of the Regional knowledge of occupational toxicology. Emergency Committee. • Activities related to Port Health Services in Puerto The system has been created with the agreement of Bolívar in order to prevent the introduction of Copaso, with Sintracarbón´s healthcare commission, infectious-contagious diseases. and with several consultants from this trade union • Strengthening the local and regional medical organization. The project, which started in 2009, services network. continued through 2010 and is continuing in 2011, • Prevention and control of the AH1N1 influenza strain. includes the biological assessment of workers who • Medical consultancy for international visitors. may have been exposed to risk. The system integrates • Vaccination against yellow fever and tetanus. intervention strategies and controls that contribute to minimizing exposure to chemical risk agents. A highlight here is the advance made by the It is supported by specialized activities relating to Active Break Program, which aims to prevent occupational hygiene, occupational toxicology, and musculoskeletal injury related to work activity. In occupational medicine in order to improve the health 2010, there were 185 theory and practical active and well-being of workers and contractors during the break sessions that benefited 3,438 workers from performance of their tasks. different operational departments and administrative areas. This was achieved through simple exercises Occupational Disease for a few minutes during the working day, through In 2010, the index of occupational disease (OD) which we managed to prevent illness and benefit the stood at 0.066, with a total of four cases registered physical and mental health of workers. against slightly over twelve million working hours. Human Capital This figure is significantly lower compared with the With the support of the ARP Positiva insurance result for 2009, which was 0.114. company, we developed an online program, available to all users, which has delivered training and followup in this important activity to all operational areas. Sustainability Report 2010 69 “ I feel very happy because in this company I’ve achieved a lot of goals that I set myself. I have always wanted to be here and the opportunity arose in the community in which I live (Oreganal) to open up this field of work to women”. Yulis Paternina. Technician for Machinery and Tool Rebuilds. Maintenance Department. Sustainable Development Environmental Management “We are committed to expanding our strategic alliances. We’ve now got the support of Conservation International and this year The Nature Conservancy (TNC) are going to come on board in order to create new protected areas around our operations, such as the nature reserves in Bahía Portete”. Gabriel Bustos Environmental Management Manager Oca chameleon, a new species discovered in the forest reserve of the Montes de Oca. T he focus of our policy and environmental management model points simultaneously towards the identification, prevention, mitigation of and compensation for any adverse We maintain our commitment to care for the environment as one of the fundamental elements of our strategy for responsible mining, and this is reflected in our Safety, Health, Environment and Communities impacts of our operations. Furthermore, we are fully (SHEC) Policy. committed to monitoring the effectiveness of our established control and protection systems and undertaking any follow up measures required. In addition, our environmental See Policy at http://www.cerrejon.com/ strategy is based on our System for Operational Integrity site/Default.aspx?tabid=164 requirements, certified to the ISO 14001:2004 standard, through which we ensure compliance with all current environmental regulations. We are recognized as leaders in environmental management in Colombian mining and our objective is to go beyond just fulfilling our legal obligations. Objectives We propose to complement our environmental management • Maintain particulate matter (focused on the suitable identification, evaluation, and concentrations in our zone of control of operational impacts, compliance with regulations, influence below legal limits. and biodiversity conservation) with the new concept of eco• Rationalize the use of natural resources. efficient management (producing more, using less). This • Deliver the plan for land reclamation. refers to the efficient use of natural resources in order to • Develop educational and environmental reduce environmental impacts and to generate better value communication activities. for our shareholders and well-being for our stakeholders. • Implement projects for sustainable Therefore we are conscious of the need to preserve the development. environment surrounding our operations, and because of • Involve different stakeholders in our this, we work intensively on the process of land reclamation. environmental management approach. We actively contribute to the establishment of protected nature reserves, such as Bahía Portete and the Montes de Oca and in the conservation of threatened wildlife species. Goals in 2010 • Maintain particulate matter concentrations As a result of extreme climate conditions, with little rain below 90 µg/m3 for TSP and 45 ìg/m3 for during the first half of the year and intense rains in the second PM10 at air-quality monitoring stations. half, 2010 was without doubt one of the most difficult years • Reutilize 80% of domestic wastewater. in the history of Cerrejón. Such conditions are associated • Recover 55% of used oil. Environmental Management respectively with the El Niño and La Niña phenomena. It • Recycle 45% of the total volume of solid is worth mentioning here that the La Niña phenomenon in waste generated. particular affected the Mine’s operational performance and • Land reclamation: therefore various environmental indicators. • Area prepared in hectares: 110. • Area stabilized in hectares: 140. Sustainability Report 2010 71 Challenges in 2011 stations (the installation and collection of Immediate operational challenges focus on the management filters, calibration, and maintenance), the of environmental impacts at the mining operation, activities manner in which information is processed, associated with its physical aspects, compliance with legal and the interpretation and analysis of the requirements and others including ISO 14001, in addition to the results obtained. processing of permits and licences required for the operation through the management of: We are also teaching these communities • Air quality about current environmental regulations • Water resources with respect to concentrations of • Waste, hydrocarbons, and chemical substances particulate matter, whether in the form • Biodiversity and land reclamation of total suspended particles (TSP), or inhalable dust (PM10), and public health Ensuring environmental sustainability in the medium to long risk levels depending on the concentration term is based on the management of biotic impacts generated of particulate matter. In addition, we by the operation, biotic compensation (offsets), biodiversity are presenting the results of our own conservation, climate change management, planning the performance with regard to air quality, mine closure, communications, and environmental outreach to with the control measures applied in order stakeholders. to ensure compliance with environmental regulations. Environmental Management Programs The Air Quality Oversight Committee is made up of teachers from the University of • Air-quality management La Guajira, analysts from the Department • Quality and efficient use of water for Environmental Management at • Land reclamation Cerrejón, administrators from Corpoguajira, • Management of wildlife and biodiversity conservation and members of the Community Action • Management of solid waste Committees from Las Casitas, Provincial, • Climate change and eco-efficiency. Barrancas, Papayal, Patilla, Chancleta, Roche, Los Remedios, and Albania. Engagement This Committee, together with Education and Implementation of Environmental the communities from the area of Management Programs influence, the Barrancas Town Hall and The Training, Safety, and Environmental Program has Corpoguajira, promoted and participated the aim of instructing employees and contractors on the in the Municipal Air Quality Forum that environmental conditions where mining operations take place took place in October in the municipality and the implementation of control measures established in the of Barrancas and which was sponsored Environmental Management Plan (EMP) to prevent or mitigate by Cerrejón, amongst others. real and potential environmental impacts. As part of the process of communication Air Quality Oversight Committee and engagement with communities, we The Oversight Committee, created in 2008, has allowed us put together information leaflets and put to share with the communities in our area of influence, and in up notice boards that showed the airparticular with those where the air-quality monitoring stations quality results for populations in the area are situated, all information related to the operation of the of influence. Environmental Management 72 Sustainability Report 2010 As one of our conservation initiatives, in 2009 we contributed, together with Corpoguajira and Conservation International, to having the Montes de Oca declared a protected area and also to the preliminary work for Bahía Portete, both of which are strategic natural habitats within the department of La Guajira. To obtain information on our programs, see http://www.cerrejon.com/site/Default.aspx?tabid=309 Conservation International We ratified an alliance with Conservation International (CI), where the main aim is to work together on issues related to conservation, communication, and research into biological diversity within the area of influence and Environmental Management in the department of La Guajira in general. With this alliance, and the support of Corpoguajira, we will contribute to the declaration of the Montes de Oca as a protected area. In 2011 we are maintaining our support for the declaration of Bahía Portete as a National Nature Reserve, where Puerto Bolívar, our coal-shipping port, is situated. In addition, we have prioritized sites for conservation in our area of influence within the compensation and payment scheme for environmental services, and within the framework of actions for the preservation of threatened species through the establishment of conservation agreements with communities. Sustainability Report 2010 73 “The idea is that some day, when this mine ceases operation, this site will be converted into a conservation corridor that joins important areas for conservation such as the Serranía del Perijá and Sierra Nevada de Santa Marta. That is the long-term vision”. Fabio Arjona, Director of Conservation International, Colombia. “Without doubt, Cerrejón has an impressive environmental reputation and has formed a strong and important relationship with Conservation International. I am here to learn from this and perhaps extract some lessons learned, applying them to other instances globally”. Stephen Edwards, Director of Corporate Relations Centre for Environmental Leadership in Business Conservation International. Air-Quality Management Air-quality monitoring to measure SO2 and NO2 is For air-quality management, we work on the basis undertaken every two years (the last one was in 2009). of a mathematical dispersion model, which is a tool The maximum values registered at the monitoring integrated into our short-, middle-, and long-term stations are in compliance with environmental law for planning for the mine. In order to estimate particulate these parameters: matter concentrations in the air, we carry out simulations, basing them on information on particulate emission from the different processes and activities undertaken at the Mine and in the Port, meteorological information, area topography, and operational controls implemented for the mitigation of such emissions. We have at our disposal a group that specializes in the Based on results from this model, we establish control control of coal-bed spontaneous combustion through measures that must be applied to prevent or mitigate the use of four fundamental practices: the impact on the air quality of communities located in • Sealing of carbon seams: application of asphalt the area of influence of our operations. emulsion (bitumen) on seams exposed to air with a high probability of spontaneous combustion. In 2010, total particulate matter emissions were • Suffocation: covering with alluvial material to avoid reduced by 22% with respect to those in 2009. This oxygen access to the seams. reduction was due to operational controls established • Cooling: with water, using pumping infrastructure in the EMP, including road irrigation with a dust (pumps and bypass channels). suppressant, the expansion of the tanker fleet (one • Removal of hot material: long-arm backhoe. additional tanker in 2010 and three more planned for 2011), the use of sprinklers to control matter in upperThese measures contribute to a reduction in gas pit levels, automatic real-time monitoring stations, and generation (NO2, SO2, CO2, CO) and therefore also the timely feedback to the operation on the results odours that can affect neighbouring communities. of the atmospheric dispersion model. The La Niña Phenomenon was an additional factor that directly As part of our Air-Quality Monitoring Program, at the influenced emissions reduction compared to 2009. end of November 2010, we voluntarily began the sampling of particulates smaller than 2.5 microns (PM2.5) at the sampling station in the Provincial indigenous reservation. Colombian legislation has required the measuring of this particulate since 2010, but only in cases where the PM10 limit is being exceeded, which has not occurred in our operation’s area of influence. As of December 2010, the PM2.5 values registered ranged from 9 to 13 μg/m3, values well below the maximum daily limit of 50 μg/m3 established by Colombian regulations. Network of Air-Quality Stations We have an air-quality sampling network made up of 18 stations (12 at the Mine and 6 in Puerto Bolívar), strategically located upwind and downwind of the operations at the coal complex. Through this network we constantly monitor air quality to make sure that Emissions of NO2 and SO2 particulate matter are operations emissions from the Mine do not constitute calculated taking into account inputs from the EN3 a risk for the quality of life of the neighbouring indicator within the GRI methodology related to communities and at the same time to monitor consumables (diesel and petrol) in mining and port compliance with current environmental legislation. operations, including emission factors*, and the The following table shows a summary of air-quality Environmental Management information fed into the air-quality model. monitoring and the maps show the locations of the sampling stations at the Mine and Puerto Bolívar. * The emission factors used for the conversion of fuel units are those referred to in AP42 EPA for heavy machinery. Sustainability Report 2010 75 2010 SUMMARY OF AIR QUALITY AIR-QUALITY MONITORING NETWORK IN THE MINE AIR-QUALITY MONITORING NETWORK IN PUERTO BOLÍVAR Environmental Management 76 Sustainability Report 2010 Noise In 2010, the values registered were in accordance with external to the operation to be identified and timely limits specified by Colombian regulations. Noise levels control measures established. This index is calculated were also monitored in different areas and communities in the reach between the Palomino station, upstream bordering operations: The indigenous reserves El Cerro from the mining operations, and the Cuestecita station, and Provincial, Hatonuevo, Roche, and Albania, and located downstream. The WQI can be calculated for the Las Casitas community at the Mine, Malla Norte, any station on the monitoring network, for the Ranchería and Escuela in Puerto Bolívar. River as well as for its tributary streams. The WQI-NSF is influenced by the winter and summer Water Management seasons in that the water quality deteriorates with rainfall. This is due to the fact that the parameters Water Quality in the Ranchería River involved in the calculation are affected by surface runOur main water course is the Ranchería River, from which off, which sweeps up organic and inorganic matter from we obtain part of the resources used in the production the basin areas of influence. processes. The volume allowed by Corpoguajira is At the same time, this situation generates an increase 195 l/s (equivalent to 6.1 million m3/year). It should be in the concentrations of turbidity, suspended solids, noted that in 2010 only 548 thousand m3 were used, BOD5, and coliforms, and a reduction in the dissolved equivalent to 9% of the volume authorized by the usage oxygen concentration. license. This is mainly due to the use of low-quality water (originating from dewatering of the coal seams). Due to the intense rainfall caused by the La Niña phenomenon, which contributed to an increase in In order to verify the efficiency of our waste control surface run-off and sediment transportation, in 2010 the systems and our impact on the water quality of the WQI-NSF average for the Ranchería River was poor Ranchería River as it flows through the area influenced (69 for the Palomino station and 65 for the Cuestecita by mining operations, we have established the Water station). The water quality of the Ranchería River Quality Index WQI-NSF, a method developed by the dropped slightly between the months of June and National Sanitation Foundation in the USA (NSF). December 2010. The trend of the water quality in the aforementioned stretch of the Ranchería River for 2010 This indicator involves nine sanitary and environmental is shown in the following graph: parameters, which also allow the influence of sources In 2010, around four thousand water samples from different natural bodies of water such as rivers, streams, and aquifers were analysed in the Cerrejón laboratory to check the efficiency of control measures, including those of the treatment system for drinking water. Sprinkling haulage roads with a fleet of 26 water tankers, each with a 20-thousand gallon capacity. Water from the holding ponds, which store rainwater, and water from the coal-seam dewatering are mixed with dust suppressants for better results. In addition, between 2008 and 2009, we developed a water quality index for the Ranchería River together with the Universidad del Valle that takes into account those parameters most related to the influence of ICA-type mining operations. This index is currently being used to better estimate the impact of the mining operation on the quality of the Ranchería River and includes parameters for sulphates, chlorides, conductivity, pH, total solids, and turbidity. Based on the ICA mining, an impact indicator was established to assess the impact (very low, low, medium, and high) at any point in the sampling areas for testing water quality in the Ranchería River. This indicator is still undergoing a validation process. Water Usage In 2010, there was a 52% reduction in the consumption of high-quality water compared to 2009 The percentage of recycled and reused domestic due to the implementation of measures such as the wastewater increased by 13.1% compared with closing of several uptakes from the Ranchería River 2009. The target set for the re-usage of wastewater thanks to the Plan for Efficient Water Use and to was 80%, and by the end of December 82% was the increase in rainfall associated with the La Niña achieved. This effluent is used in to irrigate gardens phenomenon. Water consumption is reported in and sports fields at the Mine residential unit and thousands of cubic metres, the water sources being stored to meet any shortfall in the processes at the identified by quality type. coal plant. In 2010, the volume of water disposed of was 73% less than in 2009 due to the fact that, in 2009, the authorized and controlled disposal of water into one of the reservoirs was necessary in order to continue mining. Environmental Management As part of the support program for Puerto Bolívar’s neighbouring communities, we supplied said communities with treated drinking water. In 2010, an average of 480 thousand litres per month was supplied to communities. 78 Sustainability Report 2010 Sustainability Report 2010 79 20-YEAR REHABILITATION PROGRAM FOR DISTURBED LAND The Land Reclamation Program includes all land previously used for mining that has been freed up for adaptation, stabilization, and biological diversification operations, and all the stages of progression being carried out there. As soon as reconfiguration and rebuilding of the soil begins, vegetation changes or successions are induced and stimulated, and colonization of the organisms inhabiting the plants and soil is achieved. Finally, mature woods appear, with signs of sustainability meaning they can then be validated and certified as correctly reclaimed areas. More than 2,700 ha undergoing reclamation. Reincorporation of 40 native tree species. More than 1 million trees planted. For more information, visit http://www. cerrejon.com/site/Default.aspx?tabid=311 Before After Land Reclamation We have a very competent team at our disposal, made up of more than 70 people, committed to the design, execution, support, and management of the reclamation process in all its phases in order to ensure that the planned objectives are achieved through the strategic and efficient use of natural resources. Our aim is to reclaim land used for mining operations as soon as possible. We have already spent 21 years making this mission a reality. We have put into place the backbone to manage and sustain the process, which, in its simplest form, is made up of the following spatial components – energy – water – carbon – nitrogen – phosphorous and potassium, components shared or used in some way by all the biological agents that form part of the living organisms on earth. Of the total area ceded by the Colombian government through mining licences, it is estimated that approximately 16 thousand hectares will be disturbed during the project lifespan. Areas not used for mining are utilized as buffer and compensation zones and as agricultural lands through leases with local farmers. MAP OF MINING OPERATION AREAS UNDERGOING RECLAMATION As of December 31 2010, 2,765 ha had been included in the reclamation process, equivalent to 24% of the total mining area since the beginning of our operation. The soil, water, vegetation, and biological activity field indicators established for land in different stages of evolution confirm that the ecosystem structures and functions are indeed reproducing there; these guarantee the achievement of a final condition that is better than or at least equivalent to that observed in undisturbed neighbouring lands. Areas Undergoing Reclamation During the active reclamation phases, the reclaimable land is reconfigured and prepared. In addition, vegetation The main material used in the process is topsoil, without which communities in their different stages land reclamation would be very difficult and complex. Before are established and monitored. This mining operations begin, the existing topsoil reserves must be process begins with a protective cover of Environmental Management examined and classified in the environment where the operation herbaceous vegetation, shrubs, and trees is to take place, with the appropriate characteristics, in order to in small patches, advancing into groups build new topsoil later. The topsoil reserves are removed and of sparse, medium, and dense growth preserved in storage banks. Through this process, 36.7 million until finally achieving a configuration of cubic metres of topsoil have been removed, and there are tall, diverse growth made up of native currently sufficient reserves to effectively reclaim all the areas species and constituting areas that serve used for mining operations or for operations support. to promote the conservation of regional 82 Sustainability Report 2010 flora and fauna. As of December 2010 we had reincorporated wooded cover over more than 1,600 hectares and we have the knowledge and skills for the appropriate handling of seeds, plant propagation, and successful planting of more than 40 native tree species. Benefits and applications of this process: • This program has made contributions greater than those required by law in terms of soil preservation, reclamation of degraded land, use and disclosure of appropriate terminology, and operation guides and practices. • The reclamation areas have become extensive buffer zones, receiving wildlife populations and communities from neighbouring areas. • General acceptance by neighbouring communities, visitors, NGOs, and stakeholders as high-impact environmental management and compliance with acquired commitments. Disturbed Areas Release of Turtles in Bahía Portete. Program for the conservation of threatened species. Disturbed land refers to all areas whose use has changed in September 2010. order to undertake mining and support operations. This intervention includes the removal of all the soil layers and preparation to begin the mining itself. The total disturbed area increased by 463 hectares in 2010. Wildlife Management and Biodiversity Conservation Protected Areas of High Biodiversity Possible environmental impacts by the operation on different natural resources (both renewable and non-renewable) are prevented and managed through the EMP. We apply the respective forms for land and aquatic wildlife management (EMP forms PBF 07 and PBF 08) taking into account the landscape changes resulting from the necessary mining processes. We do not mine in sites with a high biodiversity value, and we participate in the management of the protected areas of the Montes de Oca and of Bahía Portete, located outside the area of influence of the Mine. In addition, our EMP covers the regular monitoring of land and aquatic wildlife during both the dry and rainy seasons. These measures allow us to determine the impacts of the mining activities on species in the direct and indirect areas of influence. Environmental Management We also set out preventive actions aimed at wildlife rescue in areas slated for intervention in the mining front plan as defined and updated every year. We perform compensation activities in two types of protected areas: those defined in the licensing processes of the Ministry for the Environment, Housing, and Land Use (MAVDT, its acronym Gabriel Bustos, Manager of Environmental Management. Turtle Release of turtles in Bahía Portete, Sustainability Report 2010 83 September 2010. in Spanish) and those related to voluntary compensation, in which we actively participate alongside local authorities such as the Maicao Mayor’s Office and Corpoguajira. We have established one hundred metres on each bank of water courses as riparian buffer strips for gallery forest ecosystems in land on our property, well in excess of current Colombian regulations of thirty metres. We also work in the preservation of the biological corridors between the Serranía del Perijá and the Sierra Nevada de Santa Marta (characterized by the most-representative Caribbean species) by ensuring that neither current mining nor future expansion affects them. Management and Control of Biodiversity Impacts Wildlife relocation is aided by the establishment of adaptation areas for captured species to improve their survival rate in their natural habitat. In addition, land species are microchipped to facilitate monitoring of their development and growth stages and migration status. Based on the wildlife inventory we carried out, there are twenty species that are significantly threatened according to Colombian and international classifications: COLOMBIAN CATEGORY INTERNATIONAL UNION FOR CONSERVATION • Critically endangered (CR): 2 OF NATURE (IUCN) 2010 CLASSIFICATION: • Endangered (EN): 1 • Vulnerable (VU): 4 • Vulnerable (VU): 4 • Nearly threatened (NT): 7 • Nearly threatened (NT): 7 • Least concern: LC Conservation programs for endangered species. Four programs manage and control impacts on Various procedures are used for the handling, biodiversity: treatment, and final disposal of hazardous waste • Program of wildlife monitoring and follow-up. depending on type: incineration, bioremediation, • Wildlife rescue program in areas slated for mining. encapsulation, neutralization, or storage for later • Program for wildlife clinical and biological recovery (such as car batteries, which are returned rehabilitation. to the supplier). • Conservation programs for threatened species. Treatment and Final Disposal of Waste These programs are run with the Cerrejón Fauna Recovery Centre, where injured animals receive care, special studies are carried out, and environmental education is promoted amongst employees, contractors, and the various stakeholders. This centre fulfils a key role in wildlife rescue, biodiversity conservation, favouring controls on wildlife trafficking and, especially, in raising community awareness and discouraging the illegal hunting and sale of wildlife species. The 27% increase in the amount of incinerated waste is due to changes in furnace operation shifts, Currently, Cerrejón is participating in several programs which lengthened operational hours and increased of biodiversity conservation that involve engaging efficiency (Monday to Friday, 24 hours a day). Based with public and private organizations in order to on monitoring results in 2010, the furnace complies provide continuity to the various conservation projects with Colombian legislation (resolutions 058 of 2002 for endangered species. To do so, we established and 886 of 2004 of the Ministry for the Environment, cooperation agreements with the Corpoguajira Housing, and Land Use). environmental authority and with Conservation International, an NGO widely recognized for its The increase in furnace hours of operation also knowledge and support of the sustainability of contributed to the decrease in hazardous-waste biodiversity worldwide. encapsulation since much of that material was sent to be incinerated in 2010. For more information on our programs, visit http://www.cerrejon.com/site/ Waste Rock in the Mining Operation Default aspx?tabid=310 Solid Waste Management We have a rigorous program for the recovery and final disposal of waste by type. The table below presents the amount of waste generated over the last three years. Amount of Waste Generated Loading waste rock. The 4% increase in (non-hazardous) waste produced is due to dwelling construction (mainly houses and apartments built at the residential unit) and Mine and school facilities, as well as to assembling new mining equipment. In addition, there was an increase in the volume of pruned material as greater rainfall meant more foliage growth. Our operation produces no excess material after coal mining Oil Usage (such as mud, rocks, or tailings) that would be a potential environmental or health hazard. The interburden contains no chemical substances or other properties that would make it hazardous. Nevertheless, this waste rock is treated in accordance with appropriate environmental regulations and in compliance with the EMP guidelines on dump and interburden management. Oil consumption in 2010 amounted to 1.4 The aim of this program is to design and build the waste-rock million gallons. The 8% reduction in oil dump sites so as to optimize space use and volumes assigned consumption compared with the previous in the Mining Plan and facilitate their subsequent reintegration year was due to, among other aspects, into the regional ecosystem. the harsh winter that interrupted equipment operations at the Mine. FurthermoAmount of Waste Recovered re, an additional decrease in oil consumption was achieved due to changing over to more efficient equipment, such as many of our hydraulic shovels. Moreover, replacing some of the mineral oil for synthetic oil in the compressors of the drill fleet in We have a program for solid waste management. In 2010, 2009 increased the service life of the oil. there were 9,331 tonnes of waste produced, of which 49% was recovered (equivalent to 4,550 tonnes), thereby surpassing our Consumption of Emulsion and 2010 goal of 45%. Ammonium Nitrate It is worth noting that the recyclable waste is donated to the United Hands Rotary Foundation, and that all funds from their sale are used to finance educational programs in communities neighbouring Cerrejón. Complementing the above, we undertake the Comprehensive Management of Solid Waste (MIRS, its acronym in Spanish), consisting of three processes: The 19% reduction in the emulsion con• Temporary storage, collection, and transportation to final sumption (between 2009 and 2010) is redisposal sites for organic solid wastes. lated to the rainy weather conditions (15% • Collection, transportation, temporary storage, and final or 15,000 tonnes of emulsion not produdisposal of special hazardous waste from the maintenance ced), and the remaining 4% is related to workshops for equipment and facilities. the savings arising from the use of elec• Collection, transportation, recovery, transformation, tronic detonators in the mining operation. temporary storage, and marketing of recoverable waste These reduce the powder factor, thus refor subsequent recycling. ducing emulsion consumption for blasting the same quantity of bank cubic metres A total of 49% of ordinary waste was recovered for recycling. (BCM), resulting in approximately 4,000 Non-ordinary waste (except rubble) was disposed of in our tonnes less emulsion use. trench-type landfill in a backfill area in accordance with the EMP. Part of the hazardous solid waste is incinerated, and that which The 27% decrease in ammonium nitrate is not is treated by bioremediation or encapsulation. consumption (utilized in preparing the explosive for breaking up the interburden) Eco-Efficiency, Energy, and Climate Change compared to the previous year also resulted from the effects of the rain (15% or 11,400 tonnes of ammonium nitrate not Materials utilized) and from the use of electronic deWe have established efficiency indicators on the use of materials tonators (a savings of 11%, represented used in the mining process, notably on measurement of the by 3,040 tonnes less ammonium nitrate). Environmental Management service life of heavy mining equipment tyres (fleets for waste rock and coal haulage), on efficient explosives use (powder The aforementioned facts illustrate the factor, determined as the amount of explosive used per BCM of strong impact created by the La Niña pheinterburden), and the amount of oil recovered (of which a fraction nomenon and the associated heavy rains, is used to make emulsion for explosives). which meant that 30 million scheduled BCM were not blasted. 86 Sustainability Report 2010 Tyre Consumption The 23% reduction in tyre consumption on heavy mining equipment was due to (5% approximately) programs focused on increasing tyre performance in the three haulage fleets. This was achieved through assessments and monitoring of bad conditions on haulage roads by operators to allow necessary repairs of minor defects as well as the maintenance of suitable tyre temperature during long periods of operation. In addition, the heavy rains during the second half of the year affected equipment operation standby hours, which represented nearly 18% in consumption savings. The savings in tyres was affected mainly by the use of a new tyre model (5380R63VRPS) for the 320-tonne overburden haul trucks, thus increasing tyre performance from 64,200 km/tyre in 2009 to 68,000 km/tyre in 2010. Incinerator for hazardous waste. Recovery of Used Oil Taking into account that oil consumption in 2010 amounted to 1,439,979 gallons, the recycled percentage amounted to 61% (877,452 gallons), a figure which well exceeded our established goal of 55%. Part of the recovered fraction is used in the emulsion plant for explosives preparation, which in 2010 amounted to 366 thousand gallons (equivalent to 42%), and the remainder was sold to two companies (Ecofuels and Proptelma), which hold the appropriate environmental permits for the transport, treatment, and handling of used oil. Diesel Consumption Recycled material. Environmental Management Sustainability Report 2010 87 Our diesel fuel consumption comprises 98% of our The impact of other means of transport (employed direct energy consumption, being utilized mainly in for Mine personnel and for supplies) has not been heavy machinery and in medium and lightweight evaluated in detail due to their minor relevance equipment operating at the mine, as well as the amongst the critical aspects identified in our EMP. consumption in railway and port operations. The Mining Plan has considered the optimization of fuel Natural Gas Consumption consumption in the mining operations, in which the The consumption of natural gas occurs mainly in greatest proportion of diesel fuel is used for haulage the emulsion plant boilers, maintenance shops, (transport) of interburden (fractured rock). residential unit, food production centre, and dining rooms. The amount of this direct primary energy Due to increased rainfall in the area, which produced represents 0.3% of total energy consumption. operation shutdowns, fuel consumption decreased by 7% compared to 2009. This affected the operation given that it implied performing additional activities such as the removal of wet dirt instead of dry dirt from the access roads to the mining pits, water extraction from the dirt, and operational standby of the haulage fleet. The calorific value of the total diesel consumption in 2010 was equivalent to 11,694,892 Due to the heavy rains in 2010, natural gas GJ (this value is the result of the conversion of consumption fell by 19% as the greatest consumption primary energy volumes, represented in consumption of this fuel is for use in the emulsion plant boilers, of diesel gallons, multiplied by the GRI factor of 0.138 where explosives are produced for blasting. The GJ/gallon). energy utilized in 2010 in natural gas consumption was 34,197 GJ (the calorific value of natural gas of Coal transportation is carried out by railway from Gas Guajira S.A. ESP, according to the tables of the Mine to the Port as this is the most efficient FECOC (Upme), is 35.51 MGJ/Nm3). method. Coal is exported by large-tonnage ships, and therefore the environmental impact is reduced Petrol Consumption to a minimum in the transport chain. Once the coal is This pertains to the consumption of our lightweight delivered in port to our clients, they apply their own vehicles (trucks and buses), of our contractors at the measures for handling any potential environmental Mine, of the aircraft for transporting our personnel impacts, as well as the risks to health and safety between Bogota, Barranquilla, the Mine, and the Port during the transportation and use of this product. (jet fuel), and the consumption registered in Puerto Bolívar. The quantity of this direct primary energy represents 2% of total energy consumption. Solar panels for hot water systems in Puerto Bolívar housing. Environmental Management Compared to 2009, fuel consumption decreased due to weather conditions, but did not affect the total consumption significantly. Petrol consumption for 2010 was equivalent to 250 thousand GJ (the calorific value of petrol, according to the tables of FECOC (Upme), is equal to 0.119 GJ/gallon, in reference to generic petrol). In general, the reduction in the consumption of primary energy sources is attributed mainly to the predominant weather conditions, which gave rise to intense rainfall from the La Niña phenomenon, and not from improvements directly affecting company energy efficiency. Electrical power consumption The electrical power required by the operation is purchased from the national electrical power grid. We Recycling tyre material from mining equipment. do not have large-capacity power generators (only emergency power plants for supplying our monitoring stations). We have emergency power systems that come on line during unexpected power outages of the national power grid. The GJ-equivalent power used next few years in order to establish concrete goals in 2010 from the consumption of electric power was 1 for reducing our consumption in the medium term. million GJ (the conversion factor is 3,600 GW-h/GJ). During the first phase, we focus on defining the indicators and determining the baseline. The largest consumption of electrical power in the mining operation arises from the electric shovels, The long-term purpose of the program is to followed by the conveyor belts, crushing machines, identify potential agents for reduction in diesel coal-washing plants, and ship-loading equipment. fuel consumption, electrical power, and water by the defining and constantly monitoring indicators, New lodgings were installed in Puerto Bolívar in 2010 identifying external, technological, and operational with water heating systems running on solar energy. factors that affect consumption patterns, thus defining This technology is expected to provide annual the actions needed to maintain said indicators within electrical power savings of 409 thousand kWh/year. optimal operating ranges. Cerrejón’s total energy consumption in 2010, expressed in gigajoules, is summarized in the Greenhouse Gas Emissions (GHG) table below. La Guajira is located in a dry climate area, very susceptible to climate changes due to the scarcity Environmental Management of water, the ecological fragility of its ecosystems, and the high poverty levels of its inhabitants. We endeavour to help communities in the vicinity of the Mine, the railway, and the port operations, especially For 2011, we have decided to officially report ecothe indigenous populations, so that they can adapt to efficiency indicators in our use of water and energy, climate changes while they work to resolve the issues which we hope to continue developing over the of poverty, lack of job opportunities, and violence. Sustainability Report 2010 89 We have identified risks and implemented actions according to the social, environmental, and economic contexts within our region of operation, outlining commitments to cope with water and power efficiency, resource management, conservation projects, and reduction of our carbon footprint. It is vitally important to understand the impact of climate changes in La Guajira and to work with the communities that face them in order to attain sustainable development in the region. The company, along with its Foundations System, seeks to achieve a “sustainability shock”, undertaking to play a vital role in supporting communities in their adaptation to climate change. Taking into account the challenges we face, we undertake to: • Achieve ongoing improvement, maintaining special awareness of our water and carbon footprint, so as to systematically measure and report our greenhouse gas emissions. • Define and develop climate change mitigation strategies by implementing energy-efficiency and water-conservation projects within our operation. • Define and apply, with stakeholder participation, adaptation strategies for climate change in La Guajira, assisting in optimizing water resource management and promoting community practices in proper water utilization, basic sanitation, and hygiene. • The implementation of rehabilitated ecosystems and conservation projects by way of strategic partnerships with environmental players worldwide, such as Conservation International. • Create well-paid employment and maximize projects focused on solving poverty and education limitations by developing better environmental behaviour in the local population. For eight years, we have been reporting our C02 emissions on a monthly schedule, based on Anglo American methodology. In 2010, following a suggestion from our shareholders on the review and validation of the factors used in calculating CO2 emissions (in accordance with international methodologies based on the United Nations Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC)), we hired Itasca Africa (Pty) Ltd., an international expert consulting firm. This analysis resulted in an adjustment of the emission factors, particularly fugitive methane leaks (CH4), to give an increase of approximately 18% in the overall emissions inventory The supply and management of water is a daily problem in La Guajira, as well as one of the main obstacles to its development. The strengthening of the drinking water and compared with the previous methodology. basic sanitation sector, and the conservation of water resources, comprise the backbone of the activity of the Cerrejón Foundation for Water in La Guajira. 90 Sustainability Report 2010 In the table, the tonnes of CO2 equivalent emitted in 2010 can be observed corresponding to consumption of fuel, electrical energy, and coal production, broken down into diesel consumed at the mine, railway, and port, petrol, and natural gas, recorded as direct and indirect energy consumption. Methane gas (CH4) emissions are also included (generated by the coal extraction process) and emissions related to supplies for blasting (ANFO/emulsion) as CO2 emissions. Ozone-Depleting Substances We are completing an air-conditioning renovation program with the goal of progressively reducing the consumption of old refrigerants with high ozone-depleting potential (ODP) and substituting them with new-generation refrigerants. The procedure consists of re-using refrigerant from old equipment retired from service to others that cannot yet be substituted until the refrigerant’s service life comes to an end. The replacement of old equipment by new ones with low-ODP refrigerant takes place when the efficiency and reliability of this equipment declines. Emission of Ozone-Depleting Substances The increase in refrigerant consumption compared with the previous year is largely due to the air-conditioning maintenance program because refrigerants must be replaced in equipment using old technology. However, it bears noting that this equipment is gradually being replaced by systems that use R134A and 410 or other minimal-ODP refrigerants. Thirty-seven pieces of equipment were replaced in 2010, and 890 kg of high-ODP refrigerant was replaced with minimalODP refrigerants. Emissions for the 134A refrigerant are not included in the overall emissions data because it has minimal chlorofluorocarbons (CFCs). Photo of the “Irreplaceable” environmental photo competition to promote good environmental actions and make La Guajira a cleaner and healthier place. Sustainability Report 2010 91 Environmental Incidents There were no high-magnitude or significant environmental incidents in 2010. However, there were 33 low and medium-level environmental incidents. Sixteen of these were hydrocarbon spills representing a total volume of 8,800 gallons, the majority of which were in mining pits. To minimize the occurrence of incidents of hydrocarbon spills, especially with hydraulic shovels, we continue to strengthen monitoring measures both in terms of planned maintenance and investigation of unexpected cases. Likewise, we are setting up a group of analysts from the Maintenance, Production, and Environmental Management departments to work jointly on the detection, management, and step-by-step reduction of hydrocarbon leaks that may occur in fleets of heavy equipment that refuel at portable fuel islands spread throughout the various Mine pits. The other incidents are related inter alia to issues such as forest fires, re-intervention of reclaimed land, unauthorized capture of wildlife species, and deforestation in non-authorized areas. Mine Closure In this area we have given thought to some scenarios following the guidelines set out by Anglo American, one of our shareholders. These scenarios consider the economic, social, and environmental aspects of such a closure and allow us to develop a preliminary closure plan that takes into account our contractual obligations set out in both the Mining agreement and in the EMP. The planning phases for closure and post-closure are set out in the following table with the corresponding estimated timeframes: In 2010, the scenarios were reviewed and adjusted taking into account the contractual obligations and the closure criteria of our stakeholders, as well as the pit shut-down record in the current EMP. Expectations and Goals of Mine Closure in Cerrejón • Supplement and update the preliminary mine closure plan according to environmental, social, health, and safety practices that comply with Colombian legal requirements and the good practices of our shareholders. • Clarify legal aspects related to mining contracts and EMP obligations as regards to the closure and postclosure phase with the government. • Define the future use of lands and facilities that must be returned to the State. Our intention is to seek the formal declaration of the reclaimed land and buffer zones as protected areas. • Align current social management programs with the closure criteria in such a way that the impact on communities will be minimal when it happens. Cerrejón La Guajira photo competition 2010. Table of Baselines, Criteria, and Measurement Techniques Appendix Sustainability Report 2010 93 Appendix 94 Sustainability Report 2010 Appendix Sustainability Report 2010 95 Glossary Glosario AI Area of Influence. BCM Bank cubic metres. BBAPP Behavioural-Based Accident Prevention Process. BOD5 Standard measurement for BOD (biochemical oxygen demand) in a water sample. It is a five-day test. CAS Conditions, actions, and near-misses. CIFR Classified Injury Frequency Rate. CLM Cerrejón Leadership Model. CMC Coal Marketing Company. CO2 Carbon dioxide emissions. Copaso Joint Committee on Occupational Health. Corpoguajira Regional Autonomous Corporation of La Guajira. DANE National Administrative Department of Statistics. EMP Environmental Management Plan FRCP Fatal Risk Control Protocols. GJ Gigajoules. GRI Global Reporting Initiative. ha Hectare. IFC International Finance Corporation. ISO 14001 Environmental Management System Standard published by the International Standards Organisation (ISO). IUCN International Union for Conservation of Nature JSA Job Site Analysis. MBCM Millions of BCM. MSDS Material Safety Data Sheet. NGO Non-Governmental Organization. Nox Nitrogen oxides. Appendix OHSAS 18001 Standard of the Management System in Occupational Health and Safety created by a number of leading bodies in standardization. 96 Sustainability Report 2010 OIS Operational Integrity System. PM10 Inhalable dust. RIFR Recordable Injury Frequency Rate. RTDE Tabaco Self-Development Network. SEAT Socio-Economic Assessment Toolbox of Anglo American. SENA National Training Service. SHEC Safety, Health, Environment, and Communities. SOx Sulfur oxides. Special Used lubricant grease, hospital waste, and items soaked with hydrocarbons hazardous and chemical substances such as leather work gloves, burlap, cardboard, waste wood, and paper. Third Party Third Party Review Panel, which analysed Cerrejón’s Social Responsibility Review (TPR) management TSP Total Suspended Particles UNDP United Nations Development Programme. URG Uniform Risk Groups. WCA World Coal Association. WQINSF Water-quality index developed by the National Sanitation Foundation (NSF). Appendix Sustainability Report 2010 97 GRI Table GRI INDICATORS PLACEMENT IN THE REPORT WORLD INITIATIVES EQUIVALENCE MILLENNIUM WORLD PACT CODE CONTENT PAGE NO. DEVELOPMENT PRINCIPLE OBJECTIVE ORGANIZATIONAL PROFILE 1.1. Number of countries in which the organization operates and name of 4-7 countries where its main operations are located or are especially relevant to the questions of sustainability covered by the report 1.2. Description of the key impacts, risks, and opportunities. 29 30 PERFIL DE LA ORGANIZACIÓN 2.1. Name of the organization. 2 2.2. Main brands, products and/or services 12 13 2.3. The organization’s operating structure, including main divisions, operating 14 units, subsidiaries, and joint ventures. 2.4. Location of the organization’s head office. 3 2.5. Statement by holder of highest decision-making power in the organization 15 (such as the CEO, chairperson of the board of directors or equivalent post) on the relevance of sustainability to the organization and its strategy. 2.6. Type and legal nature of the property. 14 2.7. Markets attended. 15 2.8. Dimensions of the reporting organization including: 9 10 . Number of employees . Net Sales (for organization within the private sector) or net income (for organizations in the public sector) . Total Capital broken in terms of debt and net assets (for organizations in the private sector) As well as all the above, the reporting organizations are encouraged to provide further information as appropriate like. . Total assets. . Active owners (including their identity, percentage of ownership and main shareholders) . Breakdown by country / regions of the following: . Sales / assets by country / region making up 5% of more of total assets . Costs by country / region making up 5% or more of total assets Employees 2.9. Main changes during the period covered by the report referring to size, structure or share holdings. 2 2.10. Awards and recognitions received in 2010. 16 REPORT PARAMETERS 3.1. Period covered by the report. 2 3.2. Date of latest previous report. 2 3.3. Cycle of report issue. 2 3.4. Data for contact in case of questions about the report or its content. 3 REPORT SCOPE AND BOUNDARY 3.5. Process of report content delineation. 8 3.6. Boundaries of report . 2 3.7. Range and Limitations and scope or boundary of the report. 2 3.8. Basis for reporting information on subsidiaries. Does not apply to Cerrejón. We do not have subsidiaries. 3.9. Data measurement techniques and the bases of calculations, including 93 assumptions and techniques underlying estimations applied to the compilation of the Indicators and other information in the report. 3.10. Explanation of the nature and effect of any re-statements of information 2 provided in earlier reports, and the reasons for such re-statement. 3.11. Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the scope, 2 boundary or measurement methods applied in. the report GRI CONTENT INDEX 3.12. Table declaring the location of the report’s basic contents. GRI Table ASSURANCE 3.13. Policy and current practice with regard to providing independent assurance Assurance for the full Report. Statement GOVERNANCE 4.1. Organization’s governance structure. 17 4.2. 17 Appendix Indicate whether the Chair of the highest governance body is also an executive officer. 4.3. Organization’s Board Structure, state the number of members that are 17 independent and/or non-executive members. 4.4. Mechanisms for stakeholders and employees to provide recommendations 17 19 & 66 to the Organization’s Board. 98 Sustainability Report 2010 Appendix Sustainability Report 2010 99 Total water withdrawal by source EN9 Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of water. 77 78 7, 8, 9 7 EN10 Percentage and total water volume of water recycled and reused. 78 7, 8, 9 7 EN11 Location and size of land owned, leased or managed in biodiversity-rich 83 7, 8, 9 7 habitats. EN12 Description of significant impacts of activities, products, and services on 83 7, 8, 9 7 biodiversity in protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas. EN13 Habitats protected or restored. 84 7, 8, 9 7 EN14 Strategies, current actions and future plans for managing impacts on 83 85 7, 8, 9 7 biodiversity. EN15 Number of IUCN Red List species and national conservation list species 84 7, 8, 9 7 with habitats in areas affected by operations, by level of extinction risk. EN16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight. 90 91 7, 8, 9 7 EN17 Other relevant indirect greenhouse emissions by weight. 91 7, 8, 9 7 EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and reductions achieved. 89 7, 8, 9 7 EN19 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances by weight. 91 7, 8, 9 7 EN20 NOx, SOx and other Significant air emissions by weight and type. 75 76 7, 8, 9 7 EN21 Total water discharge by quality and destination. 78 7, 8, 9 7 EN22 Total amount of waste by type and disposal method. 85 7, 8, 9 7 EN23 Total number and volume of significant spills. None, During 2010 there were 7, 8, 9 7 no significant spills of contaminating substances therefore no water resources or habitats were affected. EN24 Weight of transported, imported, exported or treated waste deemed It does not apply. We do not 7, 8, 9 7 hazardous under the terms of the Basel Convention Annex I, II, III, import or export and hazardous waste in accord to and VIII, and percentage of transported waste shipped internationally. the Basel Convention. All hazardous waste is incinerated in our own facilities and other waste is managed by specialized companies holding all respective permits that submit assurance of all disposals. EN25 Identity, size, protected status and biodiversity value of water bodies None, During 2010 there 7, 8, 9 7 were no significant spills of and related habitats Significantly affected by the reporting contaminating substances Organization’s discharges of water and runoff. therefore no water resources or habitats were affected. EN26 Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of products and We belong to the Asomineros 7, 8, 9 7 Chamber and ANDI’s National services, and extent of impact mitigation. Environmental Committee in the review and editing of comments, amendments on new environmental legislature and efficient environmental practices. We are members of the World Coal Association which currently supports research on technologies for discharge and seizure of carbon. EN27 Percentage of products sold and their packaging materials that are Does not apply. We do not 7, 8, 9 7 use any packaging for reclaimed by category. selling coal. EN28 Monetary value of Significant fines and total number of nonmonetary 92 7, 8, 9 7 sanctions for non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations. EN29 Significant environmental impacts of transporting products and other 88 7, 8, 9 goods and materials used for the Organization’s operations, and transporting members of the workforce. EN30 Total environmental protection expenditures and investments by. type. 27 7, 8, 9 MM1 Amount of land (owned or leased, and managed for production 80 83 7, 8, 9 activities or extractive use) disturbed or rehabilitated. MM2 The number and percentage of total sites identified as requiring 83 7, 8, 9 biodiversity management plans according to stated criteria, and the number (percentage) of those sites with plans in place. MM3 Total amounts of overburden, rock, tailings, and sludges and their 85 86 7, 8, 9 associated risks. Appendix 100 Sustainability Report 2010 Appendix Sustainability Report 2010 101 Appendix 102 Sustainability Report 2010 Documentation, Analysis, and Coordination of the Preparation Process Cerrejón Communications Division Information and Research Centre Consulting for Report Preparation PricewaterhouseCoopers Independent Verification SGS Colombia S.A. Design Pradilla Compañía Creativa www.pradilla.com.co Printing Zetta Comunicadores S.A. Sustainability Report 2010 103
