Communication on Progress 2012 Dear Stakeholders The declaration for Qingdao Foodlink Co.,ltd to go on insisting the United Nations Global Compact .Qingdao Foodlink Co.,ltd officially joined in the United Nations Global Compact organization on Nov. 2011,and then we have been strictly follow and actively practicing the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labor, Environment and Anti-Corruption. Also we have formulated the complete system at the respects of abor standard, environmental protection and anti-corruption, etc. Regarding “ Fine management, satisfying the customer for our development vision,and promote the implementation of the global compact work persistently in order to Continually promote sustainable development referred to enterprise, economic, environmental and social. As one of China's food enterprises who joins the United Nations global compact organization, we always stick to global compact ten basic principles to Carry out our responsibilities and obligations and cash the kinds of commitments to society. Also as the leader of China's food processing industry, we are responsible to set a good example for the management and implementation of CSR in this line. Therefore, we will continue to support the United Nations global compact firmly. At the same time we also hope that our support can spirit up more domestic enterprises, and contribute more powerful force at the respects of emphasizing enterprises’ social liability and durable development. Sincerely yours, Jia Li Chairman Human Rights Assessment, policy and goals Principle 1: we support and respect the Internationally recognized human rights. Principle 2: We will deem people-oriented policy as a long-term policy, and do not protect any violations of human rights Goals: We have been strictly comply with the “Universal Declaration of human rights and other international standards of protecting human rights, identified and followed the human rights of global compact principles, established and improved the company's various systems, so as to gradually in accordance with the relevant human rights requirements. Implementation last year, the efforts and achievements we maked regarding the principles of human rights can be summarized as follows: （1）Strengthen and consummate employees' social welfare. This year, according to the provisions of company law , labor law and so on, we deem the events of Strengthening and consummating employees' social welfare as the working key of the adjustment of labor relation and safeguard the employee’s legitimate rights and interests . At present, Company employee's social insurance rate has reached 100%, housing provident fund payment rate has exceeded 50%. （2）Strengthen and consummate company staff security system. The company pay the employee accidental injury insurance on the basis of paying social security in order to Eliminate employees’ any menace from the rear . （3）The company continued to make donation to the children who cann’t go to school because of the poor family, and help other children who also come from the poor family to continue the education. Measurement of outcomes Through aboved measures and improvements, the company's welfare system is more perfect, Labor participation rate reached 100%, and all these increase the employee’s cohesion and sense of belonging,,and then them form the more united team. Measurement of outcomes Through aboved measures and improvements, the company's welfare system is more perfect, Labor participation rate reached 100%, and all these increase the employee’s cohesion and sense of belonging,,and then them form the more united team. Measurement of outcomes Through aboved measures and improvements, the company's welfare system is more perfect, Labor participation rate reached 100%, and all these increase the employee’s cohesion and sense of belonging,,and then them form the more united team. Measurement of outcomes Through aboved measures and improvements, the company's welfare system is more perfect, Labor participation rate reached 100%, and all these increase the employee’s cohesion and sense of belonging,,and then them form the more united team. FOOLINK GAMES VOCATIONAL TRAINNING HOPE PROJECT Labour Assessment, policy and goals Principle 3: Enterprises should support and respect the internationally recognized human rights, freedom of association and freedom of speech. Principle 4: To eliminate all forms of forced or compulsory labour. Principle 5: To abolish the circumstance with regard to employ the child labour cogently. Principle 6: To eliminate the discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Implementation Over the past year ,the efforts which we make and regarding improving labor standards as follows: 1.We establish the internal promotion system , and provide the outstanding employees with salary increase. In the past year, we carried out promotion competitions, there are 95% staff received salaries ascend. 2.We perfect the overtime system and control the overtime. And we ensure that the overtime is in accordance with the labor law standard through revising and perfecting the employee’s work overtime system. 3.To perfect the staff accommodation condition, and provide the staff with free apartment and the basic life appliance freely. 4.To perfect the staff extra-curricular life. For example, we bought the recreational facilities such as table tennis table and fitness equipment etc. for the stuff, and hold an annual staff games and employees Arts Festival. 5.To held various training for the stuff actively: and the company carried out the internal safety management, health management, management training for the staff referred to the departments of domestic management and Workshop personnel, accordingly the company's internal staff comprehensive quality and ability were enhanced in 2012. At the same time, we cooperate with JLA and other relative professional Training Company to make the shortterm training for the part of management personnel Measurement of outcomes To improve the company's staff capacity and better occupation planning as well as to establish the Internal promotion channel and Improve staff’s job involvement through the Internal promotion, and training mechanism. To provide the nearly 40 residential staff with the staff apartments which have better environment and more perfect facilities, accordingly the staff’s accommodation was improved effectively, their lodging satisfaction was enhanced and rich their amateur life was rich greatly. Environment Assessment, policy and goals Principle 7: Business circles should support to use the prophylactic methods to cope with the environmental challenges. Principle 8: To take the initiative to promote environmentally responsible practices. Goals: Foodlink’s objectives and commitments regarding the environmental protection policy. As the member of green food processing industry, We clearly recognize that we have the Important social responsibility for the goals of national development strategy with regard to Promoting environmental protection, energy saving, emission reduction. For this purpose, Foodlink will actively carry out the strategy of sustainable development, and take the environmental protection , energy saving and emission reduction as the direction key of product development. Implementation Foodlink’s achievements and effects which referred to the aspect of environmental protection and are got Over the past year. 1.To analyze the energy consumption and craft of each process and recast the high energy consumptionprocess in order to reduce the unit energy consumption. And establish the energy consumption standard In each processing procedure, improve the energy consumption through daily statistics, and equipment. 2.To reduce staff’s life energy consumption and pollution emissions by increasing the utilization of solar energy. 3.To provide customers with green and harmless food uninterruptedly by the methods of establishing the raw materials supply base, controlling the source, reducing the pesticide residue and controlling the diseases about plant and insect pests. Measurement of outcomes Foodlink will will strictly abide by the Global Compact on the principle of environmental protection, actively to response to environmental protection policies and appeals of the United Nations and the Chinese government, and insure that there is not any environmental complaints in the whole year. The staff’s energy saving consciousness strengthen gradually , and they can Initially lodge and participate in solving measures . Anti-Corruption Assessment, policy and goals Principle 10: Business circles should struggling oppose the corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Goals: The company will manage and put an end to all of the briberies in respect of Domestic and foreign economy, and give the restricts through the system requirements. ▲Regarding the global standards of business integrity and anti-corruption: Operating integrity has always been Foodlink’s greatly important component of the internal quality management system. Foodlink has been abiding by the related global standards of commercial credit management Since it’s establishment, and incessantly communicate our value conception and the principle of good faith to our employees , suppliers and customers. Implementation The efforts which Fooodlink makes and in aspect of anti-corruption principle. During the past year, we further improved the rules and regulations about anticorruption and business integrity and Strengthened the internal audit with regard to the financial expenditure, constructed the system of punishing and preventing corruption as soon as possible and Increased the strength of prevention and cure constantly and prevented the kinds of illegal acts of duty crime and Infringement for the company’s interest by focusing on the enterprise’s central task in order to build a uncorrupted healthy internal environment for the company’s constantly healthy development. And Strengthened all staff’s anti-corruption and honesty consciousness. To Improve the management staff ‘s anti-corruption awareness by carrying out anticorruption commitment activities within the company and establish the supplier’s feedback communication in order to stop job corruption. Measurement of outcomes Through advertising and inculcating the Anti-Corruption Culture, perfecting and strengthening the Anti-corruption system, the Philosophy which indicates that bribery is shameful , and most of the corrupt behaviors can be eradicate. ▲Foodlink’s future prospect in respect of Anti-corruption. Foodlink will firmly carry out and follow the global compact principles about Anticorruption, and guard against the happening of the staff corruption behaviour such as all kinds of commercial bribery.
