Living our values AMEC plc annual sustainability performance report 2011 Medioambiente Pessoas Ətraf mühit İşçilər Clients Segurança 安全 Intégrité Clientes Integridade 发展 İnkişaf Excelencia 卓越 Our values Content 04 Introduction from Samir Brikho, our Chief Executive 06 About AMEC 07 Our approach to governance 08 Sustainability in AMEC 10 Engagement with our stakeholders 14 Living our values 14 People n Sustainably delivering excellence to our customers 20 Safety – Exceeding the expectations of our clients and others we work with 26 Environment – Thinking sustainably, for the long term 32 Integrity – Passionate about success n Believing in people 38 Excellent project delivery – Investing in training and development 40 Oil & Gas – Promoting teamwork and the sharing of knowledge and best practice – Recognising the power of diversity 41 Minerals & Metals n Never compromising on safety 42 Clean Energy – Protecting and supporting employees and any one working with 43 Environment & Infrastructure us or affected by our activities – Committed to continuous improvement 44 Sustainable growth n Acting with integrity – Being reliable, trustworthy and fair in all we do 46 Assurance statement – Showing respect 48 Signposting our report – Committed to delivering on our promises 50 Performance table Personas İnkişaf Müştərilər Crescimento 客户 人们 İşçilər Clients Crecimiento 发展 Introduction from Samir Brikho Clientes Pessoas Croissance Personnes Can a company save the world? During 2011, AMEC was yet again confirmed as sector leader in the Dow Jones The right portfolio of sectors and services Sustainability Index. Naturally we were proud to have been recognised in this way, We are deliberately positioned across sectors and services so as to benefit whatever the relative weighting in the energy mix. but is this important – and is it enough? We think that fossil fuels will be an important component of this for many years to come and believe we have a part to play in helping our customers minimise their environmental impact. Among many examples, in 2011 we strengthened our service The right people I have been thinking about this since our inaugural sustainability their safe behaviours outside the workplace; and how offering in the US by acquiring MACTEC, a 2,600-person Our success lies in the success of our employees and the stakeholder panel. As you can see from the results on our we become a part of the communities in which we work. engineering and environmental services company; and way in which they deliver to our customers. During 2011 website, this was a thought-provoking event. One interesting were selected by INEOS Bio to be its global license support we recruited over 8,000 people and I was particularly delighted challenge was the difference between sustainability and Our new sustainability strategy, described in more detail engineering firm. that more than 200 came as a result of our alumni programme, corporate social responsibility – and which term best describes elsewhere in this document, has been designed to make nearly 500 were referred by AMEC employees and that we had AMEC’s approach. This is more than just semantics. We quite these linkages more explicit. By living our values, we ensure The right geographical spread a record number of graduates joining us. deliberately call this our eleventh annual sustainability report excellent project delivery for our customers and so achieve Although we work in some 40 countries, the bulk of our because we believe sustainability permeates everything we do. sustainable growth. activities are in the UK and North America. In recent years we I want our workplace to be a safe one and I would like to have been increasing our position in Australia and we continue encourage our people to take these safety behaviours into In my early days at AMEC, I was surprised to be asked if Let me highlight some of our 2011 achievements towards to expand into other regions of the world, in support of our their communities. 2011 saw a strong HSSE performance, I wanted to comment on the draft sustainability report. To me, achieving sustainable growth. customers. For example, in 2011 we won our first biomass with our lowest ever total recordable injury frequency rate, a sustainability report should reflect the culture of the company project in South Africa for paper producer Sappi and we have at 0.37 per 200,000 exposure hours. We can never afford and I saw reviewing it as part of my role. I believe that The right customers been working on the Oyu Tolgoi mine site in Mongolia. complacency on this topic. integrating social, environmental, and economic concerns into Our vision is that by continually delivering excellence, we our values and operations, in a transparent and accountable inspire trust and loyalty in our customers. In 2011 we I asked at the start whether a company could save the world. manner, is integral to the achievement of our long-term expanded our existing customer relationships, with BG Group, We continue to support the UN The answer, of course, is no – but it should not stop us trying strategy. But we must also care about what happens as a result BP, Magnox and Sapphire Energy, among others. We also our best. We need to dream, make our dream into reality and of the work we do: how our customers are better able to meet established new relationships, such as with MWCC, GDF SUEZ, Global Compact with pride.” then amplify this to the rest of the world. I hope this report will their own sustainability challenges; how our employees retain Bannerman, Paladin and URENCO. Samir Brikho, Chief Executive help you understand where we have got to on our journey. 4 | AMEC plc annual sustainability performance report 2011 AMEC plc annual sustainability performance report 2011 | 5 Üstünlük 安全交付 Excelencia Realisation sûre About AMEC 卓越 Our approach to governance Entrega com segurança AMEC stands on two main pillars – AMEC has considerable experience and capability in the world’s The highest tier of authority at AMEC plc is the board of directors; during each year. Events such as results presentations and other main energy sectors. We are well placed to respond to the it comprises a non-executive Chairman, three executive and capital market events are webcast and made available for those its people and its customers.” increasing demand for clean energy, and our clients’ need to four non-executive directors. unable to attend in person. Samir Brikho, Chief Executive improve the efficiency of mature assets and add flexibility. Each of the areas in which AMEC operates is forecast to grow over The board is responsible to shareholders for the management Each year, the Chairman and Senior Independent Director write the long term, supported by global fundamentals. AMEC is of the company and for the protection of its assets. As such, to all major shareholders, reminding them that they are available carefully and deliberately positioned across sectors so as to it is ultimately responsible for implementing AMEC’s systems for meetings with them as required. benefit whatever the relative weighting in the energy mix. of internal control and for reviewing their effectiveness. AMEC plc is a FTSE 100 company, whose shares are traded on AMEC does not combine the role of Chairman and Chief Executive; the London Stock Exchange and listed in the Oil Equipment and AMEC’s Vision 2015 (announced December 2009) sets out In 2011 AMEC appointed a new chairman, John Connolly. Since the status of the Chairman can be described as independent. Services sector (LSE: AMEC). AMEC's journey. We are seeking growth by widening our his appointment, John has concentrated on the review of key We consider our definition of independent to be consistent with customer reach, focusing on key segments, prioritising markets, governance issues, including the composition and remit of our that given in the Global Reporting Initiative. AMEC is a focused supplier of consultancy, engineering and reinforcing the strong delivery inherent within the brand and board committees. The results can be seen on pages 51-52 project management services to its customers in the world’s oil broadening our service offering. Our priorities for the future of the 2011 annual report and accounts. Under AMEC’s Figure 1 represents how sustainability issues are managed and gas, minerals and metals, clean energy, environment and are simple – grow by continuing to deliver to our customers management and policy framework, the board has formally within the business. Samir Brikho as Chief Executive is the head infrastructure markets. With annual revenues of some £3.3 and investing in our employees. delegated specific responsibilities to various board committees, of the sustainability programme ensuring that it sits as a board billion, AMEC designs, delivers and maintains strategic and which consider, analyse and monitor material elements of level responsibility. Beneath this there are key functional complex assets and employs over 27,000 people in around 40 AMEC’s management system, including some which are accountabilities which relate specifically to the values, to project Table 1 countries worldwide, with major operations in the UK and covered as part of our significant sustainability aspects. For delivery and to growth, each with specific owners throughout Americas. The company’s registered office is in Knutsford, Markets and sectorss Divisions more detail of these committees including their remit, and the business who manage the associated policies, processes United Kingdom. AMEC’s approach to corporate governance, please refer to the and improvements in these areas. In addition to functional NR P&P E&I report of the directors in our 2011 annual report and accounts, accountability, AMEC truly believes that every individual has Oil & Gas AMEC's four markets can be sub-divided into 11 sectors which available at amec.com (pages 51-54). a responsibility and a part to play. are supported by our three divisions – Natural Resources (NR), Conventional Oil & Gas   Power & Process (P&P) and Environment & Infrastructure Unconventional Oil & Gas   One area of focus in 2011 was the terms of reference for the Fig. 1 (E&I) – see table 1. Our Natural Resources division provides Minerals & Metals   ethics committee. These have been refocused and strengthened, Managing sustainability in AMEC engineering, project management and asset support services in in support of AMEC’s core value of ‘acting with integrity’. The Clean Energy both conventional and unconventional oil and gas, and in mining. Code of Business Conduct has been updated, ethics officers Samir Brikho Executive Director Nuclear   Our Power & Process division provides similar services to the appointed and our ethics helpline re-launched in multiple clean energy market. Environment & Infrastructure provides Renewables / Bioprocess   languages, so better reflecting the global nature of our business. environmental and engineering consulting, working across all Power   Functional Individuals AMEC’s markets providing a complementary offering to many Transmission & Distribution (T&D)   We believe we have a good, strong mix of skills represented Strategy of our customers. More information on the markets and on our board. We are very aware that we currently have no Finance Business Sustainable growth Environment & Infrastructure services can be seen in the project delivery section of this report women on our board and will be seeking to remedy this as development Water / Municipal  and pages 8-17 of the 2011 annual report and accounts. part of the process of board renewal. Engineering Transportation / Infrastructure  Supply chain management Excellent project delivery All employees Commercial / Industrial  During 2011 we began a review of our approach to managing Project management Government services  and reporting risk and this will continue in 2012. HSSE HR The executive directors and senior management undertake an General Living our values counsel For more information about our business and the sectors we service please visit our website at amec.com extensive programme of meetings with institutional shareholders 6 | AMEC plc annual sustainability performance report 2011 AMEC plc annual sustainability performance report 2011 | 7 Excellent project delivery Our report Our growth aspirations will only be achieved by focusing on We use our sustainability performance report to: our customers and ensuring we deliver to them safely and sustainably in line with our values. With increasing legislative Benchmark and assess our performance against laws, and other pressures, our customers are looking for solutions codes, performance standards and voluntary initiatives which incorporate key aspects of sustainability into a project Demonstrate how AMEC influences and is influenced as a value-added service. In each of these areas, we utilise our by global sustainable development issues internal programmes and tools, along with our technical and Compare performance over time within the organisation scientific expertise, to ensure excellent customer delivery. and against peers where it is useful to do so Excellent project delivery is the second element of our Communicate our key sustainability issues and how sustainability strategy. It is supported by the behaviours of the we manage and improve on them. ‘living our values’ element and in turn, by delivering excellence to our customers, supports ‘sustainable growth’. We have focused the content of the report on those areas Sustainable growth which are most important for us to manage, are important to our Sustainability in AMEC The third element of our sustainability strategy sustainable growth provides the linkage from living our values and stakeholders, are critical for AMEC’s long term success, and which link to principles we are committed to. We have grouped excellent project delivery to our Vision 2015 business strategy our material sustainability issues into chapters aligned to our and delivery of the company vision and beyond. Our Vision sustainability strategy: living our values, excellent project 2015 strategy is focused on growth, which we believe can be delivery and sustainable growth. This report also is inclusive achieved through the skills of our people and the way in which of our Global Compact Communication of Progress report. AMEC is a company with a clear vision, a common sense of Living our values they deliver successful projects for our customers; the strength direction and a culture of performance and delivery. Our aim We believe that AMEC’s vision and strategy for growth cannot of the customer relationships this engenders; the markets and The data included incorporates AMEC’s divisions, plus corporate is to create a successful, sustainable company for the longbe achieved without a solid foundation – AMEC’s values. geographies in which we are positioned; and the strength of and shared services. Where historical data is available it is stated term. To achieve this, we need to balance economic, social and Our values are integral to how we do business and how we our balance sheet. See pages 18-20 in 2011 annual report and from 2008 to 2011 inclusive, as can be seen in the 'AMEC environmental issues in our decision-making processes, deliver projects successfully for our customers. They create accounts for more detail on Vision 2015. in numbers' table on page 50 as well as throughout the report ensuring sustainable working is integrated into the very the cultural context in which we work, and form the foundation where appropriate. Information which has been restated core of our business. of our sustainability strategy in four key areas; to provide a like-for-like comparison with previous years is Sustainability impacts, risks clearly identified in the performance sections. We have restated This year we revised our sustainability strategy to strengthen People and opportunities information only where discontinued operations have significantly the visible linkage with the core business strategy from Safety As an international business, our sustainability impacts are influenced past performance and would otherwise distort our values to Vision 2015 and beyond see figure 2. diverse and inextricably linked to the regions in which we comparisons. The key performance indicators used in this report Environment We are now using three interwoven elements living our operate. We believe that sustainability impact management are regularly reviewed and updated according to their value. values, excellent project delivery and sustainable growth – Integrity. must be integral to the way we manage our business and to support the delivery of our vision. Each element is integrated throughout our management system. SustainabilityTable 2 intertwined with each other, success in one element being We have ensured policies, processes and standards are in place related issues are part of our business and we need to dependent on achievement in the other two. globally to manage these areas consistently wherever we work. concentrate on those which have the greatest impact on our Material sustainability issues ability to manage our business. We use a number of techniques People Environment Fig. 2 to do this including; Engagement Sustainability strategy Pollution prevention Risk management Attraction and retention Climate change Beyond 2015 Equal opportunity and diversity Stakeholder engagement Legal compliance Employee / capability development Emergency response Sustainability surveys Employee mobility Global standards, principles and frameworks. Integrity Safety Creating stakeholder value through; Ethical trading The right customers Occupational health, Table 2 illustrates our key sustainability impact areas which Anti-corruption and bribery Sustainable The right portfolio of sectors and services safety and security growth are more fully described within the content of this report. Community investment The right geographical spread Risk assessment and control Ensuring satisfied customers through; Access to employment / local content The right people These sustainability impact areas are closely linked to AMEC’s Emergency response Consistent delivery Skills building Excellent principal business risks, specifically in areas such as health, Incident control Safety and environment in design project delivery Human rights Aligned supply chain safety and security, recruitment and retention and ethical Our foundation; Innovation breaches. Our approach to risk management and details Excellent project delivery Sustainable growth Safety of our principal business risks are detailed on pages 21-23 Performance excellence Strategic development Living our People values Environment of the 2011 annual report and accounts. Service provision Shareholder value Integrity Supply chain management Investment / divestment 8 | AMEC plc annual sustainability performance report 2011 AMEC plc annual sustainability performance report 2011 | 9 Personnes İşçilər Extracts from My Opinion survey 87% of respondents understand why sustainability is important to AMEC 77% of respondents believe we Engagement with Pessoas can help our customers improve their sustainability 81% of respondents believe AMEC shows our stakeholders commitment to ethical business decisions and conduct Understanding the views of our numerous stakeholders helps us to make better and more informed decisions. However, we understand that we will not always meet every stakeholder expectation. As a company we have to strike a balance between what our stakeholder groups want and what is best for our business. 82% 76% of respondents believe of respondents believe AMEC has created an in AMEC values environment where people with diverse backgrounds Stakeholders inform our approach can succeed We have continued to engage our key stakeholders, with advice and guidance on how we might develop our strategic a number of events taking place throughout the year. These approach to sustainable development performance and opportunities have helped to shape this year’s performance reporting. The panel met at the end of November 2011 to report in both style and content. review and discuss the report. In addition, at this meeting panel members were invited to offer, in confidence, their This year, for the first time ever, AMEC created an external views on the draft sustainability strategy. stakeholder panel to form part of the assurance process. Comprising nine members drawn from key external stakeholder Overall impressions groups (client, investor, academic and sustainability think tank), The panel members were in agreement that AMEC has a ‘highly the report provided good coverage of the key issues of interest We have begun to address some of these comments raised within the panel members were invited to comment on the AMEC competent’ approach to sustainable development, as evidenced and relevance to AMEC’s stakeholders. However, members this report and will continue to do so as we hold further sessions sustainability performance report 2010 (the report) and offer by the information presented in the report. Overall they felt that noted that as an industry leader, AMEC’s approach to and work with the external stakeholder panel moving forward. sustainability reporting should go further and include a fuller See amec.com/aboutus for a copy of the panel report and discussion and engagement on issues critical our response to the comments raised. to the future of the energy sector. Extracts from external stakeholder panel report Stakeholder engagement The panel praised the report for its good use of graphics and its Within this section of the report we talk in more detail about In order to communicate the company’s There were a number of comments that the report clear and accessible language, speaking to several audiences, our engagement with investors and government. commitment to engagement, and the challenges could do more to link the sustainability agenda and the particularly employees, existing and potential customers. Overall, faced, the panel recommended that the report risk agenda. In this respect, one member suggested the style of the report suggested it was for a generalist rather We recognise that there are other key stakeholder groups – contains an upfront statement explaining the key that the report should mirror the annual report and than specialist audience. Some panel members suggested that including our employees, our community, our suppliers sustainability issues faced by the industry and describing provide more information on sustainability risks and the information reported was not always put into context, and our customers. More information on how we have engaged AMEC’s role in helping shape a better future.” mitigation. It was suggested that this would make preventing wider stakeholders (especially those outside the with each of these groups can be found throughout the body the sustainability report more accessible to the industry like the media and the public) assessing quickly the key of the report: employees within the people section, community It was also recommended that AMEC includes investor community.“ issues and approaches we take. within the integrity section and our suppliers and our customers more forward looking statements throughout the report in the project delivery section of the report. to demonstrate the company’s commitments to society The panel recommended that an alternative way Some members commented that they would like to see a and the environment.” of structuring future reports would be to consider the clearer link between the sustainability report and the annual Our employees continue to be a key stakeholder for us and we three divisions of the business in more depth. This report and accounts. The point was made that for sustainability have worked hard to communicate with them. The My Opinion Panel members further suggested that AMEC would allow the company to explain the strategies for to be truly integrated into the mainstream activities of the survey is used to measure our employee engagement includes more information on targets and performance growth for each division and explore the particular business, there should be a strong resonance between the key and provide direction from the responses– some which measures across its impact areas.” challenges in each area.” messages in both reports. are highlighted above. 10 | AMEC plc annual sustainability performance report 2011 AMEC plc annual sustainability performance report 2011 | 11 Samir presents at the UAE-UK CEO Forum, Abu Dhabi 2011/12 Dow Jones Sustainability Index Commonwealth Business Forum Energy, power and water, their AMEC was ranked the industry leader for oil equipment and services in the worldwide Dow Jones Sustainability Index (DJSI) affordability, availability and sustainability, for 2011-12: the third year in succession and the eighth year in succession that we have featured in the DJSI. The Commonwealth Business Forum is held on a present a fantastic opportunity for us.” bi-annual basis and this year’s forum was themed Samir Brikho ‘Partnering for growth, new challenges, new opportunities’. With attendees ranging from government ambassadors, to clients and industry bodies, there were a number of our key stakeholders in attendance. Samir Brikho presented at a session on Infrastructure Challenges in the 21st Century; discussing the Investors importance of infrastructure, the current conditions and Engagement with our investor community (both current and challenges faced and why we should care. During the continues as Chairman of UK Trade & Investment’s potential) is important to ensure that they know and understand forum Samir was also part of a round table discussion International Oil and Gas Sector Advisory Board. Neil was also our business and how it is run, and for us to deliver key with Julia Gillard, Prime Minister of Australia, other appointed as a member of the Scottish Trade & Economic messages to them. It is also an opportunity for us to listen to heads of government and selected business leaders. Growth Board by the Secretary of State for Scotland. Mike their views. Saunders, Group Management Team member, represents AMEC on the Department of Energy & Climate Change’s As part of our commitment, and in addition to our usual Nuclear Development Forum and Carbon Capture & Storage In September 2011 Samir Brikho co-chaired the results-related events, our operational management team hosted Development Forum. These opportunities all help provide inaugural UAE-UK CEO Forum in Abu Dhabi, along with a capital markets day in May 2011. This outlined what we are advice to government in areas of economic development, trade Nasser Ahmed Alsowaidi, Chairman of the Department doing to deliver our strategy from an operational perspective. and delivery of energy policy. of Economic Development, Abu Dhabi. The forum is It was followed in November with an event for the Socially Government driven by the private sector, however it has the full Responsible Investor (SRI) community and other investors, which Governments and political stakeholders form an important AMEC takes time to meet with government ministers, national support of both governments whose representatives highlighted the functional team’s role in supporting the delivery audience for AMEC as they develop policy, legislate in and regulate or provincial, either in country, at international events or if they were also present. The forum is about creating of the strategy. Presentations from the Chief Financial Officer, our key markets. In addition, public sector bodies, through are visiting the UK; examples include meetings with Joe Oliver, opportunities for small and medium scale companies, Group Human Resources Director, Group Health, Safety, government departments or agencies, state-owned companies Canada’s Minister for Natural Resources, Colin Barnett, Premier as well as multinationals, to expand their business Security and Environment Director and the Sustainability and quasi-national organisations, are important customers. of Western Australia, and Brad Wall, Premier of Saskatchewan. activities. For AMEC, the Middle East, and the UAE in Programme Manager outlined our plans for ‘delivering Examples include the UK Nuclear Development Authority, Important issues discussed included minerals exploration, particular, is a key part of our Vision 2015. The country sustainable growth’ to 2015 and well beyond. Both were the US Air Force and KEPCO in South Korea. resources and skills shortages and the potential to expand First has huge potential and events like this forum raise streamed online in order to widen the audience, and are Nation involvement. the profile of AMEC. available to view on amec.com/investors/events. We regularly meet members of governments and public sector officials at formal meetings and briefings to ensure that there is Events During the year we also held a number of one-on-one meetings continuing dialogue. It is important that we understand what new AMEC continues to take part in a variety of forums and events. with investors interested in our approach to sustainable areas of policy are being developed and can discuss undesirable or These forums provide us with the opportunity to present development. Areas of interest in 2011 included our work to unintended consequences of proposed governmental action e.g. tax our knowledge and expertise to various groups and also support sustainable energy projects, our activities to minimise changes impacting North Sea activities. In the UK, North America speak to clients, peers, industry bodies and governmental AMEC continues to commit to the 10 principles of the Global the impact of exploration in environmentally sensitive regions, and more widely, AMEC maintains dialogue on energy and organisations. A listing of the key events can be found Compact, and will continue to embed the principles within as well as our sustainable consulting projects, which present climate change issues including nuclear new build, carbon on amec.com/aboutus/events along with key contacts company policy, behaviour and culture. We will endeavour value-creation opportunities. Investors were also keen to capture and storage, wind energy, water resources and for more information. to work with our supply chains, clients and peers to disseminate understand our employee strategy in support of our commitment investment in transmission and distribution systems with a view the requirements of the principles along the value chain. This to attract, develop and retain our skilled workforce across the to maintaining momentum in the delivery of these items. UN Global Compact report is also AMEC’s Communication of Process and will be regions where we are based. Discussions relating to the availability of key resources and AMEC continues its support of the United Nations Global Compact posted onto the Global Compact website in accordance with appropriate skills in the engineering sector remain high on Principles launched in 2000. The United Nations Global Compact the condition of participation. We will continue our SRI investor engagement programme in our agenda. AMEC has, for example, co-hosted discussions is a strategic policy initiative for businesses that are committed 2012, including SRI conferences, one-on-one meetings and between the UK's Royal Academy of Engineering and the to aligning their operations and strategies with ten universally Descriptions of how we are implementing the 10 principles further events, which will highlight our sustainable growth schools minister Nick Gibb MP and senior industrialists. accepted principles in the areas of human rights, labour, can be found throughout the report. For specific signposting, plans going forward. environment and anti-corruption. Participation in the UN Global please refer to the UN Global Compact table on page 48 Samir Brikho continues to serve as a UK Business Ambassador Compact offers a wide range of benefits to the business which details what we are doing to support each of the Our employees continue to be a major shareholder group; and during 2011 he was appointed co-chair of the UAE-UK CEO including sharing of best and emerging practices and access to 10 principles and where you can find more information currently holding 1.6 per cent, which puts them within the top 25 Forum (see box, right). Neil Bruce, Executive Director, also the UN's knowledge and management tools and resources. within the report. per cent of our investor groups. We continue to engage and listen to them on various topics (see the people chapter for detail). 12 | AMEC plc annual sustainability performance report 2011 AMEC plc annual sustainability performance report 2011 | 13 Table 3 İşçilər Right people, right places Recruitment by division and type Personas Natural Resources Power & Process Environment & Infrastructure Total Direct recruitment 3,583 397 1,399 5,379 Pessoas External recruitment Referral programme 2,210 312 164 41 43 124 2,417 477 Alumni programme 205 11 2 218 Total 6,310 613 1,568 8,491 人们 Table 4 Strategic recruitment Graduates 203 74 9 286 Trainees 21 0 0 21 AMEC’s ‘international interest’ programme was Living our values Personnes designed to identify those existing employees who would like an international assignment. This reflects our global Interns Total 128 352 16 90 20 29 164 471 intentions and our need to place the best people, in the right places, to deliver for our customers. By finding out Note: Includes figures from divisions only. who was interested, we wanted to widen the choices of people available for any given project. Introduction In May 2011 a survey was launched on our company Sustainability is integral to everything we do in AMEC, retention, and we have invested heavily in development to allow intranet. 1,600 employees took part in that survey, Our people challenge is to attract, and nowhere is that more apparent than with our people our people to progress their careers. Mobility, because of the expressing an initial interest. Of those, 600 then sought management. We do not see sustainability as an ‘add on’; it is international nature of our business, is an important and ongoing business approval to submit their CVs and resumes, develop and retain the best people.” a key ingredient in all our business decisions. Our Vision 2015 challenge. However one of our biggest challenges, and also one hence creating another resource pool for the various business strategy drives our people strategy, and the essence of our biggest opportunities is engagement. Our most recent locations in which we work. of both our business strategy and our people strategy is growth. employee opinion survey shows good results, but we still have a desire to improve. We have invested in the tools and processes Our people challenge is to attract, develop and retain the best to help engagement, but now our challenge is to consistently people for AMEC. Growth for us, because AMEC is a people apply them, regardless of sector, geography or line manager. doubled, as the sectors or geographies which are growing the through the programme, the vast majority into the Natural business, means growth in the number of people either organically fastest have the biggest resourcing constraints. That means we Resources division, mostly in North America. At the end of 2011 or by acquisition. During 2011 our overall workforce headcount Resourcing have had to think more innovatively about our resourcing, both this programme was made more consistent, with the launch of grew to 28,742 by the year end. Over 8,000 people were recruited, Our challenge is to successfully meet resourcing requirements long and short term. The main focus has been on widening the a new global communication programme including our website with recruitment activity mirroring our key growth areas. We in line with our business growth, both to deliver our 2015 pool of resources available, so we can find the best people to and an alumni newsletter, with the aim of making more of this continue to engage with and listen to our employees. Our people strategy, and for our long term future. Often the challenge is deliver consistently for our global customers. valuable resource pool. challenge is supported by ‘my Future’, an AMEC framework that describes how we manage our people and which aims to help us We have used a number of methods to widen the pool available Our male to female ratio has changed very slightly from 2010, Fig. 3 attract, develop and retain the best of the best. to us. These include what we have called ‘international interest’, with a 1 percentage point drop in total female employees. Gender balance percentage our alumni programme, strategic recruiting, as well as targeting However the number of female managers and professionals AMEC’s people management is supported by our short term potential employees outside our usual industries or geographies. has increased from 17 to 19 per cent and female executive Male Female tactical delivery and an annual plan. Over recent years we have numbers have increased by 1 percentage point to 11 per cent. achieved a high level of discipline around following that plan. Our 2008 79 21 Being largely project-based we have a natural wave of people See figure 3 for total gender balance. four key areas of challenge to deliver our business growth are: 2009 77 23 joining and leaving the business as projects begin and end. Our alumni programme is about staying in touch, and opening up Strategic recruiting 2010 76 24 Resourcing Mobility another pool of possible candidates, people we know and we AMEC puts a lot of effort into our strategic recruiting, by which Development Engagement 2011 77 23 want to come back. We have a reputation for people returning to we mean our graduate, trainee and intern programmes. These the business, but the alumni programme aims to make that are our resources for the future, in which we invest a huge Male Female Resourcing is a challenge for any people business. However more formal, actively keeping in touch with ex-employees. amount of time, effort and money. E&I 68 32 we are confident that we have good resourcing capabilities, and that we are seen as an attractive employer in the sectors P&P 84 16 During 2011 each of the businesses targeted ex-employees with During 2011 a total of 471 people were strategically recruited, and geographies we work in. A major part of resourcing is 79 21 regular news updates, to keep them in touch with AMEC and including 286 graduates. Currently our graduate schemes are NR our latest developments. In total 218 people returned to AMEC targeted towards particular sectors or geographies, for Note: Includes employees in divisions only. 14 | AMEC plc annual sustainability performance report 2011 AMEC plc annual sustainability performance report 2011 | 15 Table 5 Table 6 Performance development review (PDR) participation 2011 Building the talent in Baku Internal promotion number of employees Natural Power & Environment & Natural Power & Environment & We have to think innovatively Resources Process Infrastructure Total Resources Process Infrastructure Total about our resourcing.” % PDRs completed 87 78 84 83 Positions filled internally 522 36 258 816 Note: Total includes figues for all employees Grade promotions 648 226 394 1,268 Note: Includes employees in divisions only. example in the UK, we have both nuclear and oil & gas graduate Development Mobility schemes. This is very successful for the recruitment of high One area of focus on development is on the employee group Our operations in Baku, delivering major contracts Mobility is something which AMEC requires to support our quality candidates for these specific schemes. However, we do who are critical to our delivering our 2015 business strategy: for BP, are important for our business so developing global aspirations and deliver our strategy. We have to be able also recognise that it may be AMEC’s global opportunities our line management. Therefore our focus in 2011 was on people both in Baku and internationally for Baku is key. to deploy our people across the globe between projects and which attract graduates to us in the first place. In line with our addressing this through a number of initiatives. For example as AMEC is committed to enhancing the competency and sectors, in order to transfer learning, knowledge and skills. strategy to open up the resource pool, we are now considering part of the AMEC Academy, 2011 saw a focus on rolling out contribution of national employees, with Azerbaijani Our key objectives are: a global scheme for 2012, looking at how we make manager toolkits across the business, helping to equip our line employees being trained on the job and/or through international experience part of our graduate schemes, at managers with the skills they need, including helping them external courses to meet the company’s objectives and as To widen our resource pool least for targeted individuals. to engage with their teams. In total 1,288 people attended a part of the nationalisation strategy. To employ the best people regardless of geography an in-house delivered toolkit module during 2011. To match the best people with the best business opportunities During 2011 AMEC widened the resource pool by targeting Ayten Eminova completed various activities as part potential employee populations outside our traditional The ‘Managing for High Performance’ programme was of her development plan during 2011, including building To develop leaders with the global insight and experience boundaries. This included, for example, areas of the UK with also rolled out to a further 293 managers during 2011. relationships with potential customers, planning and to manage across cultural and geographic barriers high unemployment, using recruitment roadshows to find The programme has been designed to help managers development of business strategy, commercial To attract and retain people by offering international resources particularly for our oil & gas operations. This was participate effectively in the performance development review awareness and stakeholder management. Since Ayten assignment opportunities supported by competency training to give people the right skills process for employees. This, along with the performance started the AMEC development programme her role in to transfer across industries. As well as the numbers of development review (PDR) itself, is seen as critical in improving the company has changed significantly, from Project To help develop local skills in emerging locations. employees joining us, we also record and report those our line manager engagement. In 2011, 83 per cent of our HSE Adviser four years ago to a Regional Business employees that choose to leave us. In 2011 our employee employees completed a PDR with their manager – see table 5. Development Coordinator role now. AMEC has an in-house team, AMEC Global Resources (AGR), instigated turnover was 11 per cent, 1 percentage point higher This criticality is echoed in a new performance target or key who support the delivery of our global mobility consistently and than in 2010, which we believe is mainly due to overheated performance indicator (KPI) which has been set for 2012: “The AMEC Advance programme (provided through AMEC efficiently. Over 2011 the team reviewed or implemented markets in some areas of the world in which we work. ‘Your manager engages with your development’. Academy) helped me to broaden my knowledge of the AMEC’s global mobility policies and processes, including the wider AMEC, adding organisational, interpersonal and development of the AMEC Mobility Programmes (AMPs) Focus on business criticality drove the main development stakeholder management skills into my personal toolkit framework to effectively respond to the increasing programmes offered. The AMEC Academy programmes which contributes to day to day work.” Ayten Eminova, complexities in managing international assignments. delivered over 2011 were designed to support the roll out CIS Regional Business Development Coordinator. The framework aims to manage cross-border transfers in a Fig. 4 of the AMEC Way (see page 38 for more details), and to deliver consistent and fair way. It provides the business with flexibility Geographical make-up of workforce consistency, and consistent excellence, across AMEC globally. Akshay Deo (pictured above) was on the Advance while ensuring AMEC’s market competitiveness through Programme in 2011 and as a result was transferred from enabling quick and cost efficient assignee mobility. 30 Feedback from the employees who attended the courses was the AGR office in Singapore as part of his development to UK good, with 77 per cent agreeing that the courses met the get hands-on site experience. Today he works as an AMEC has a large number of globally mobile employees 25 objectives and were relevant. HSSE Advisor for CIS, spending time assisting the working out with their home country. The majority of these are Employee numbers (’000) Americas projects with their HSSE deliverables. His work is primarily employed by AGR. At the end of 2011 AGR had 787 active Rest of world 20 Internal development activity should lead to an increase in the focused on Baku at the moment but in 2012 he will also employees of 44 different nationalities assigned to 31 host number of people ready for internal promotion or development be engaging with employees in Kazakhstan and Romania countries worldwide as part of its international workforce. 15 moves. The result of our focus on development over the past year on HSSEQ deliverables and initiatives. “I am always By this we mean our population of globally mobile employees is reflected in our internal promotion rate of 7.2 per cent, which introduced to fellow colleagues in Baku as ‘a fresh pair employed directly by AGR who undertake indefinite cross10 has almost doubled from 3.87 per cent in 2010 – see table 6. of eyes’ I understand this means looking at a situation border assignments to support global projects and long-term from outside in.” Akshay Deo HSSE Advisor, CIS. business needs. 5 0 2009 2010 2011 16 | AMEC plc annual sustainability performance report 2011 AMEC plc annual sustainability performance report 2011 | 17 Table 7 My Opinion employee survey results 2011 Integration key to success 2010 Employees must feel that they We have to be able to deploy our 2011 2010 difference have a key role in the business.” No. of employees responding 13,826 (65%) -7pp 13,166 (72%) people across the globe between projects Overall 67% -1pp 68% and sectors, in order to transfer learning, engagement score knowledge and skills.” In my part of the business there is open 67% +13pp 54% and honest two way communications Senior management in my part of the 59% +11pp 48% business has a sincere interest in employees Engagement Engagement is the part of our people challenge which offers where people can take five minutes in a meeting to discuss an AMEC acquired GRD Minproc in November 2009, as part the most potential in terms of getting it right. AMEC issue or topic. of our Vision 2015 strategy to grow our Minerals & Metals sector. The Minproc business, headquartered What do we mean by engagement? There has also been a continued encouragement of the use of in Australia, had operations in South Africa and South We see engagement as something that supports our business Performance Development Reviews (with a new online system America, and a focus on process engineering. This strategy aligning and motivating employees behind business launched in 2011), town halls, breakfast briefings, and employee combined well with AMEC’s existing minerals & metals direction (particularly the implications for their own role) and cascades. operations in the Americas, where we were recognised also supports our people, ensuring that AMEC is providing the for project delivery. In Australia the integration involved environment and opportunities to meet their individual aspirations. Induction a large, formerly independent, business of about 1,000 It is a vital part of our people challenge, helping to attract and AMEC’s induction, ‘My Compass’, has been successful in employees. Right from the start senior representatives retain people, helping make their development more valuable, helping the engagement of our newer starters including those from all functions met regularly, with robust reporting and ultimately making us a successful and sustainable business. in acquisitions. It was piloted on the GRD Minproc acquisition. to keep the integration on track. Figures show that when engagement is down, attrition increases In the 2011 employee survey, 2,297 employees reported having and vice versa. Irrespective of the wider environment, people are been part of an acquisition in the last 18 months. Although The first stage was about awareness with roadshows more likely to stay and be committed if they are engaged. employees coming from an acquisition tend to be less engaged, and management visits. Emphasis was placed on the the gap with other employees is reducing. ‘fit’ of the acquisition in terms of geography and capability, We use our ‘My Opinion’ survey to help gauge engagement of with ‘right people, right places’ as the message. Then our employees. Although engagement levels are generally flat, Collective bargaining the focus moved to engagement as the functional most areas remained constant or have improved. One area AMEC’s employee population is generally not unionised and integration took effect. Minproc became an early however experienced a significant drop in engagement levels where it is, we generally work through a sector/national rather adopter of our new standardised approach to business which was entirely expected and with the reasons recognised. than company level agreement. In 2011, 2,612 employees were operations and project delivery. This included being the We are working on addressing this throughout 2012. We covered by a collective bargaining agreements, representing 9 pilot business for the new ‘My Compass’ employee recognise that engagement is not just an HR issue, but also per cent of our workforce. induction. a management and leadership one. We know that one of the biggest impacts on engagement is the relationship between Conclusion More recently the focus has been on integrating the the employee and their manager. Therefore an emphasis Across the four key areas of our ‘people challenge’ (resourcing, business itself with the other Australian operations, on management skills (outlined in the development section) development, mobility and engagement) run a number of as well as capitalising on the new global sector and how business objectives translate for the individual have common threads. capabilities. This has taken longer than initially expected been a recent focus. This has been reflected positively in the because of the downturn in the mining sector in 2010, latest survey as people felt the improvement see table 7. We want as wide a pool of resources available to us as possible. and also resulted in lower than hoped for employee That means promoting diversity, supporting local development engagement, measured as part of the regular ‘My Employees must feel that they have a key role in the business, and delivering global mobility. We need to build the capabilities Opinion' surveys. However the effort to apply AMEC that they are not a commodity and so our survey is a key of our line management as they are critical in supporting processes and systems has been paying off as the platform to give employees a ‘voice’. Over recent years an development, mobility and engagement. market has improved. The new business is now an emphasis has been put on listening, and providing two-way integral part of AMEC in Australia, as well as being a communications. Over past years our communications were However above all it is our business strategy which drives our core part of our global minerals & metals capability. very much one way and previous surveys highlighted this as an people strategy. The knowledge gained will be used to support future issue. We have been working at improving this and one example integrations. of a tool provided to managers is the ‘AMEC Moment’. This is 18 | AMEC plc annual sustainability performance report 2011 AMEC plc annual sustainability performance report 2011 | 19 Seguridad Sécurité 安全 Leadership and personal Təhlükəsizlik accountability play a vital role in the Segurança management of HSE issues in AMEC.” Living our values Our leadership Leadership and personal accountability play a vital role in the management of HSE issues in AMEC. Strong and active leadership from the top is a proven demonstration of commitment, engagement and risk management. Introduction Going Beyond Zero Our principles Our strategic goal in this area is: AMEC has had health and safety (H&S) management systems In recent years, we launched the AMEC Beyond Zero Our HSE management framework sets out core expectations in place across the business for decades. Over the years we programme which has been very successful. This for the management of each critical area of HSE. These To continue to develop our management and supervisors' have evolved our management processes conforming with transformational programme was designed against core expectations form the basis of our standards across safety leadership skills. internationally recognised standards for H&S management three simple concepts of excellence in health and safety the business and reinforce and support our leadership. such as OHSAS 18001. performance improvement: Throughout 2011 we put significant effort into equipping The focus for 2011 was to create a joined-up approach within people with the necessary skills to improve their personal Beyond Zero our management systems. We now have clarity in our policy, a safety leadership. In 2011 around 1,000 people went through Fig. 5 clear vision for our journey towards 2015 with clear and concise the AMEC Safety Leadership Skills Programme which aims Beyond Zero Road map (updated in 2011) Leadership Safety leadership expectations, expectations for the whole of our business which are to develop greater self awareness and understanding of Safety leadership skills communicated using the 14 core expectations contained in our personal HSE responsibilities. HSE management framework. Standards Six safety essentials, Safety rules, The AMEC First Step Safety Leadership Skills Programme OH Standards, Environmental standards During 2011 we: aims to establish and maintain the foundations on which we can positively shape our culture by focusing at the individual Everyone Engagement tools, Created a clear line of accountability throughout the level to transform our safety leaders. The Skills Programme engaged Excellence in supply chain organisation in our policy complements our global leadership development Aligned our functional priorities to support Vision 2015 programmes by developing a greater awareness in each within our strategy person, of themselves, of their interaction with others and Central to the success of the AMEC Beyond Zero programme also a greater understanding of their roles and responsibilities Created a clear set of expectations for all our businesses continues to be the illustration of what excellence looks like, in an HSE context. across the globe in our framework. and the provision of an active road map to guide our operations towards excellence in health and safety see figure 5. Framework implementation Leadership tours / audits Having upgraded our group-wide management system Through 2011 AMEC’s leadership (including the COO and we needed to apply a process of formal implementation. Chief Executive) were involved in undertaking 264 safety We achieved this by asking all divisions to perform a gap tours based on our 10 safety rules. This is seen to have analysis on their safety management systems using our multiple benefits for the business, by reinforcing bespoke performance standard tool. This was then used leadership commitment to HSE, promoting Beyond Zero to create improvement plans to tackle any weak and engaging our workforce. compliance issues identified in the assessment. 20 | AMEC plc annual sustainability performance report 2011 AMEC plc annual sustainability performance report 2011 | 21 2011 Global Awards for HSSE 2011 Global Awards for HSSE Our goal is to reduce risk and harm in all our operations, through sound technical decisions at the earliest front end opportunity and manage any residual risk The framework supports our AMEC HSE strategy and policy and contains AMEC’s standard 14 core HSE expectations, through operational control.” setting out minimum requirements in specific areas of HSE management. Where a standard global approach is required in specific areas the core expectation is supported by a mandatory AMEC HSE procedure, applied across the group. Project management Throughout 2011 we developed the Health, Safety, Security Enhance the profile of occupational health management and Environmental (HSSE) chapter of our global Project across AMEC and implement a common robust approach to Management Plan (PMP), which contains key group-wide the management of significant occupational health risks. Promoting leadership behaviours is essential to Successful safety management begins at the earliest expectations, processes and procedures for ensuring that developing a safety leadership culture in the business. opportunity within a project. This year’s winner of the our activities, including engineering, design, construction, My Opinion survey The winner of the People HSE award was Christianne Best Practice category of AMEC’s global award for HSSE management and maintenance operations, are undertaken Part of our regular My Opinion survey is dedicated to health and Wetherspoon, who played a major part in saving the life was the Natural Resources, Europe and West Africa, BP safely in a consistent manner and in line with contractual and safety. It helps us to understand whether our people really of a colleague who suffered a cardiac arrest while at North Sea Region Projects team for their implementation regulatory requirements and policy commitments. believe that the company is committed to their safety and work. Christianne has taken her experiences and of the ‘Inherently Safer Design’ (ISD) model, which whether they feel engaged in the process. In 2011, 93 per cent used them to perform a leading role in helping to focuses on eliminating or significantly reducing hazards, Occupational health management of our employees believed that AMEC was committed to educate first aiders and improve the awareness and and is put into practice by actively communicating ideas Creating a world-class occupational health (OH) management employee safety, up 2 percentage points from 2010 levels. standards of care provided. and examples across the whole team. system is vital for us and our business. We must make sure that 91 per cent of our employees feel they are able to discuss work we have systems in place to identify aspects of our work which hazards and safety issues freely – this response had not may impact on people’s health and make sure that we manage changed from 2010. We are very proud to see the strength of risks to minimise health impacts in the long-term (chronic) as this safety commitment in our culture. well as short-term (acute). Our standards a task risk assessment assurance process throughout 2011, Sub-contractor engagement The standards that we set are our people's guide to working Our underpinning principle in the management of OH is that aimed at reviewing the quality, consistency and efficiency of Our sub-contractor stakeholders are key in improving our safely. Compliance with these minimum standards acts as our occupational ill health is preventable through proactive risk task-based risk assessments. performance and maximising our potential to reduce incidents global licence to operate both in existing and moving into new assessment, risk mitigation and awareness. Occupational throughout the business. Sharing our tools, thinking and areas of operation. health is an important part of our HSE management system Performance standard 2011 learning with our key sub-contractors was a focus for 2011, with and we have developed occupational health group standards To support the integration of our enhanced management engagement workshops, aimed at improving safety culture and Moving forward in this area, our strategic goals are: and an OH risk assessment to manage this element. approach we created a bespoke ‘Performance Standards’ understanding with key sub-contractors, held in each division. tool to benchmark our business against the 14 core To have in place robust and effective management The occupational health standards were developed following expectations we have set for our organisation. World class performance systems and procedures that meet the requirements of a comprehensive review of health related performance. We believe in total loss prevention and are committed to the HSE management framework and the minimum legal Occupational health assessments are designed to systematically Everyone involved delivering a world-class performance, actively seeking to be requirements of each jurisdiction and industry sector identify potential occupational health hazards in specific To deliver world-class HSE performance, everyone must play best in class in each of the industry sectors in which we To maintain a robust HSE assurance programme that occupational groups of workers. They help us to identify acute their part. For this to happen, every person must understand operate. delivers at each level of the organisation. and chronic health hazards because we look at the occupation both their role and their responsibilities. as a whole rather than a specific task. Our strategic goals are: HSE management framework Our strategic goals in this area are: This sets out the standard AMEC health, safety and environmental Risk assessment assurance To deliver a year-on-year improvement in our (HSE) framework (part of Beyond Zero Road map figure 5) which Each year the AMEC HSSE Leadership team reviews groupDrive workforce engagement and involvement in securing Total Recordable Case Frequency ensures consistency across the company. Our goal is to reduce wide performance. This process informs objective and target a better health and safety culture and performance To continually review our metrics and performance risk and harm in all our operations, through sound technical setting for the following year. Enhance both relationships with, and support to, our supply indicators to ensure we drive continuous improvement decisions at the earliest opportunity and managing any residual chain partners in our key areas of focus risk through operational controls. We need to consider aspects In looking at our incident investigation findings using our Develop and maintain leading HSE teams through intelligent To benchmark our performance across high performers of health, safety and the environment at all stages of a project's Trackwise (incident management tool) analysis capability, we resourcing, the implementation of the HSE career path and in each industry sector. life cycle. were able to identify inadequate risk assessments as a root robust succession planning cause for a high number of incidents. This led us to implement 22 | AMEC plc annual sustainability performance report 2011 AMEC plc annual sustainability performance report 2011 | 23 Table 8 Table 9 Table 10 Table 11 Number of fatalities OSHA 2010 Enforcement action Incidents of ill health Professional and 2011 2010 2009 2008 business services Construction All industry Number of prosecutions 0 2011 2010 Employees 0 0 0 0 TRCFR (per 200,000 man hours) 1.7 4.0 3.8 Number of fines 0 Days lost 505 1,333 Sub contractors 0 0 0 0 LTIFR (per 200,000 man hours) 0.6 1.5 1.2 Number of prohibitions 0 Number of cases of ill health 15 22 Others 0 0 0 0 Number of orders / improvement notices 1 Number of reportable ill health cases 1 0 Incident prevention management Lost time incident frequency rate (LTIFR) Health and Safety enforcement action HSE awards Through the use of our TrackWise reporting process we have Our target for the year was zero which we failed to achieve as a AMEC Group Limited (‘AGL’) is currently the subject of an During 2011 we received a number of external awards in relation been able to improve mobilisation and response times to group, even though we improved on our performance compared ongoing Health and Safety Executive investigation, in respect of to commitments to safety. A list of these awards can be found at potential safety issues on a global scale. Significant reportable with the previous year. We still had 15 people sustaining lost an incident involving a fatality to a subcontractor at the Leftbank www.amec.com/aboutus. incidents are flagged up to all businesses as they are logged time injuries, which is clearly unacceptable see figure 6. Apartments project in Manchester in April 2004. AMEC was into the TrackWise system – this allows speedy promulgation, principal contractor. A summons has been received and AMEC Security focus awareness and action across our global HSSE teams. Total recordable case frequency rate (TRCFR) entered a not guilty plea. The case was heard at Liverpool As AMEC grows and expands into areas that are new to us, the We targeted a 10 per cent reduction on our 2010 performance Crown Court in June 2011 and resulted in a hung jury. A retrial management of risk and related security threats has become Our performance which was achieved see figure 7. will be held in March 2012.* an even more important business issue and a key factor in our While we had many fantastic examples of world-class ongoing success. We have recognised the benefits of delivering performance in 2011, and improved performance year-on-year, All injury frequency rate (AIFR) One improvement notice was served on AMEC Group Limited as security holistically, and are implementing a consistent unfortunately we did not achieve all of our improvement targets. We targeted a 10 per cent reduction on our 2010 performance duty holders on the Dunlin A Offshore Installation. The notice approach to security service delivery across the group. Setting key performance indicators allows us to measure our which we achieved see figure 8. related to improvements in the fire detection equipment within performance against the targets we set ourselves. In this case, the Aggreko transformer enclosures on the platform. During the year we made significant progress in developing a our aim is to eliminate harm to the people who work for us, or we AMEC’s performance compares well with figures produced robust, structured approach to security management and interact with, as a result of our operations / activities. We set by the US Occupational Safety and Health Administration Occupational health review. We have engaged Regional Security Advisers (RSAs) a target of zero fatalities and a 10 per cent improvement on (OSHA) which collates industry incident rate figures. These are Days lost through occupational ill health and injury was introduced who support operations in identifying and mitigating security previous best performance across the three key lagging a useful benchmark for us to compare against our global as a new indicator for our HSE management programme report in risk. We have also made significant progress in upgrading our performance indicators. Zero fatalities were recorded across performance see table 9. 2010. In 2011 we set ourselves a target of reducing the number of security tool box for our operational teams to use with the AMEC operations in 2011 see table 8. days lost by 10 per cent. Tracking the number of days when an supervision and guidance of RSAs. individual is away from the workplace gives an indication of the level of severity of each case see table 11. Our security approach is evolving quickly. Our review process is designed to ensure that we focus attention on high risk activity, We met our 10 per cent reduction target for days lost and making sure group processes and principles are embedded number of cases. across the company and so keeping our people safe and secure. Fig. 6 Fig. 7 Fig. 8 LTIFR (per 200,000 man hours) TRCFR (per 200,000 man hours) AIFR (per 200,000 man hours) Reportable cases of ill health During 2011, our plans were tested by the unrest in Libya. LTIFR TRCFR AIFR This indicator relates to incidents of ill health which are required It was a great relief to us all once our expatriate workers were 0.65 5.14 to be reported to the relevant regulatory authority. The nature safely home and our local workers had been reunited with 0.07 of occupational reportable diseases are defined by national their families. 4.34 regulatory guidelines e.g. RIDDOR for the UK, OSHA in the US. 0.06 During 2011 there was one case of reportable ill health, this 0.44 3.54 related to a case of hand arm vibration in the UK business 0.42 3.12 see table 11. 0.37 0.04 0.04 *Since the date of this report AMEC was found guilty under a breach of Section 3(1) of the Health and Safety at Work etc Act 1974. Sentencing is due to be passed May 2012. 2008 2009 2010 2011 2008 2009 2010 2011 2008 2009 2010 2011 24 | AMEC plc annual sustainability performance report 2011 AMEC plc annual sustainability performance report 2011 | 25 Ətraf mühit Ambiente 环境 Medioambiente Environnement take to get there (see Safety section for more detail on the Living our values Focusing on areas where we must ensure high standards of performance road map). Our HSE leadership team identified an opportunity to stress the importance of environmental management by the development of mandatory global environmental standards. to reduce associated environmental and financial risk.” These standards were developed following a comprehensive review of AMEC’s environmental commitments (values and policies) and performance, including environmental incident Our shared environment is a finite global resource which needs So how do we manage such a variation in our responsibilities? Environmental Management System (EMS) coverage investigation, environmental KPIs, regulatory performance and a high level of protection, maintenance and stewardship. This is We do this through setting clear expectations and standards for More than 91 per cent of our employees are working within environmental best practice. The objective of the standards is why AMEC has committed to upholding the United Nations our operations and through providing tools and shared learning an environmental management system that is ISO 14001:2004 to ensure a consistent level of performance across the Global Compact principles. We believe that the practical, to enhance our capabilities in environmental aspect management. compliant, with our UK businesses gaining third party certification. organisation; focusing on areas where we must ensure high technological and strategic steps that we have taken to manage standards of performance to reduce associated environmental our environmental impacts help us to be a successful AMEC’s policy statement is supported by our Health, Safety and Nine per cent of our organisation operates within an and financial risk (pollution and associated clean-up costs). company; but there is always more we can do. Environmental Framework document, which describes our environmental management system which we assess to be integrated approach to health, safety and environmental non-compliant with the standard, which is slightly improved Compliance and control management throughout the group. We require all operations to on 10 per cent in 2010. Note: These figures are based on Like many multinational project management companies, we implement this framework standard which is based on ISO 14001 headcount of our divisions. work in numerous locations over the globe, in roles ranging from and OHSAS 18001. Our HSE framework contains our core The most effective way in which prime contractor to discrete service provider. All of our projects expectations, which set down minimum standards of practice Updating our road map AMEC can minimise resource use are different and there is no 'one-glove-fits-all' solution to across key areas. During 2011 we required all parts of the Key to achieving the commitments we set out in our HSE policy environmental management – we assess each project based on business to perform a gap analysis against the framework using is our HSE strategy and road map. These documents set out is by the advice and services we provide the local environmental aspects. our performance standard (refer to page 21 for more information). our key priorities supporting Vision 2015 and the route we will to our clients.” AMEC’s key strategic aspects HSE policy (plc) Policy Compliance Maintaining and communicating high Business and control standards and legal compliance, identification Unit & HSE strategy (plc) and management of pollution risks Functional Strategies Common HSE framework and procedures (plc) Minimising Excellence in environmental design and Process resource use ‘future proofing’, growing and responding Product & Project to clients' needs now and in the future, water HSE section of project management plan (project) Execution plans resource management AMEC Technical IPR Procedures, Forms Standard & Specifications, HSE procedures (business) Responding to Responding to threats and opportunities Calculations, Guides climate change The hierarchy of environmental management controls in operation across the business, supporting the environmental commitments laid down in AMEC’s Health, Safety and Environmental policy statement. 26 | AMEC plc annual sustainability performance report 2011 AMEC plc annual sustainability performance report 2011 | 27 Table 12 Table 13 Fig. 11 Regulatory action Environmental incidents AMEC water scarcity risk map 2011 2010 2009 2008 2011 2010 2009 2008 Prosecutions 0 0 0 0 Number of environmental incidents 179 160 333 423 Total fine(s) £ 0 0 0 0 Of which were spills 175 Other notices 0 1 0 0 Environmental incident frequency rate 0.47 0.46 0.94 1.15 (Number of incidents per 200,000 man hours) Regulatory action Setting clear expectations If regulatory action is taken against AMEC it suggests that we have failed to manage an environmental aspect properly. Table and standards.” 12 shows any environmental incidents which resulted in formal regulatory action being taken against us. This includes prosecution and any other environmental regulatory action such as fines, stop notices or any other notice. These standards apply to our operations where AMEC has environmental responsibility; they have been integrated into our Reported environmental incidents divisional health, safety and environmental (HSE) management Environmental incidents, where there was potential for systems including AMEC’s standard Project Management Plan pollution or risk of regulatory action (in line with AMEC Extreme Scarcity Scarcity Stress Sufficient Abundant AMEC offices approach. management system requirements), are recorded, reported and investigated. We track this indicator because we believe are identified during engineering design phases so that they are plots our current office locations against the projected annual Developments in project management and supply chain that through thorough investigation of environmental incidents designed out as far as possible. renewable water supply map for 2025. The range of services we provide for our clients is extensive, and we can improve our management systems and techniques we are currently enhancing our group systems and approaches see table 13. One example of this in practice is in the use of our AMEC PI We have a number of offices located in areas of water severity, to maximise effectiveness and efficiency when working in the emissions forecaster software. By inputting different equipment either currently or predicted by the year 2025. For 2012, we project environment. Minimising resource use modules (such as number and type of gas turbines and will look in more detail at the consumption in these locations Environment in design compressors), it calculates emission profiles of the life of the field with the intention of implementing improvement and reduction The Project Management Plan details all the elements we The most effective way in which we can minimise resource use for various production scenarios. The software allows various plans during 2013. need to achieve excellence in project execution, and one volume is by the advice and services we provide to our clients – in terms sensitivities to be analysed within minutes, to ensure optimum of the plan deals exclusively with health, safety and environmental of design solutions and environmental consultancy. We have configurations are chosen, confirming Best Available Technique Externally we will continue to support our clients with their management. We have made sure that this section includes our systems and processes in place to ensure environmental issues and identifying considerable possible cost savings. projects – see amec.com for examples of our recent water environmental standards and framework requirements. projects and services. Water Supply chain management Fig. 10 Water scarcity is a growing problem that affects governments, Responding to climate change Our supply chain is fundamental to our environmental Make-up of spills reported businesses and individuals in many parts of the world. As with Climate change continues to be a major issue for AMEC performance, in that poor environmental stewardship in the climate change, businesses will be directly affected by water and our clients to manage, and for us, addressing concerns supply chain can affect our ability to manage environmental / issues and equally, business action could have a major impact around climate change means addressing our energy use pollution risk through poor practice / product or service. Our Oil 837 on the scale of the problem and the potential solutions. Over the and services provision for our clients. We need to ensure that environmental experts have been working with our supply chain litres past few years, we have been growing our water services we bring the latest technology to the market and make best management team to reflect environmental performance Other offering as part of our Environment & Infrastructure business, use of resources. screening within a new tiered global supplier assessment tool. 2,841 litres providing a multidisciplinary approach to water projects at all Fuel 2,461 litres stages of planning, study, design and construction. During 2011 Carbon strategy Environmental performance we took time to assess and map our own locations in terms of Our carbon management strategy was developed in 2008 AMEC has a number of environmental indicators in place water scarcity risk using the World Business Council for through analysing the short, medium and long term effects Hydraulic across the business which we use to track the performance fluid Sustainable Development global water tool. of climate change on our business. The objective of the strategy and the effectiveness of our systems and controls. 1,011 litres is to facilitate the implementation of carbon management across AMEC’s water usage is predominantly office-based utility the whole of our organisation, pushing climate change and carbon supply, therefore we are not deemed as a major user figure 11 emissions higher on our management’s agenda. 28 | AMEC plc annual sustainability performance report 2011 AMEC plc annual sustainability performance report 2011 | 29 Table 14 Table 15 Carbon performance benchmark indicators Electricity consumed Scope two emissions Reducing our global IT power Quarry Park-it – employee 2011 2010 2009 2008 2011 2010 2009 2008 consumption commute challenge Tonnes of CO2 per person per year 2.435 2.338 2.669 2.632 000s KwH 41.161 44.771 48.286 57.492 (*1.891) 000s GJ 148 161 213 207 Tonnes of CO2 per £m turnover 19.236 17.335 21.823 22.214 At the end of 2011 AMEC acquired an energy In 2011, 103 of our employees from the Calgary office (*14.935) 000s CO2 tonnes 18.4 20.9 30.4 24.3 management solution to reduce energy wasted by took part in the Park-it challenge – which invited * Figures in brackets represent a like for like comparison to 2010 levels. PCs, and other devices connected to the corporate employees to use a self-propelled (walk, cycle, run) network, when they are not in use. The system provides method of transportation to and from work instead of us with detailed reports of energy usage and savings by driving, over a 23-day period. During this time 2,559 location and even down to individual PC level. To date we commutes were recorded, a total of 36,298km travelled have monitored our usage and usage trends and in early and $3,290 raised for local charities. The challenge 2012 we will begin to manage the power consumption of was seen as a fun way to encourage and educate our the PC fleet. It is expected we will see reduction in usage employees on ways in which they could reduce their Our long term targets form part of our strategy and remain at: Our carbon performance and cost with immediate effect, helping us to meet our carbon footprint while improving physical fitness at the In total AMEC’s businesses (excluding joint venture carbon reduction targets while ensuring productivity same time. 15 per cent reduction in CO2 by 2013 partnerships) reported emitting a total of 62,727 tonnes of and availability are maintained. With current usage 40 per cent reduction in CO2 by 2020 carbon, representing an increase of absolute carbon of 22 the system is forecasting a reduction in energy use per cent from the 2010 level. This increase is due to the of over 40 per cent (32.4MwH) over the next 12 months. 60 per cent reduction in CO2 by 2030 inclusion of site vehicle and diesel use for our Power & 80 per cent reduction in CO2 by 2050. Process business in Europe – this data has not been available in previous years. If we compare the absolute carbon Working through the Greenhouse Gas Protocol guidelines footprint like-for-like with 2010, we see a total of 48,704 for and ISO 14064(1) we have identified the key emission target 2011 representing a reduction of 5 per cent see table 14. Process Europe amounted to an additional 13,541 tonnes Carbon Reduction Commitment (CRC) energy efficiency scheme sources on which we concentrate our efforts in controlling. of carbon. On a like-for-like basis, our emissions reduced by The Carbon Reduction Commitment required AMEC to submit These include building utilities, air and rail travel, and vehicle Scope one – emissions from direct energy 5 per cent. This reduction is largely due to the reducing information on our carbon footprint and in April 2012 purchase usage and constitute the majority of the carbon emission falling Total scope one emissions for 2011 were 22,723 tonnes, company car fleet which is being phased out, as well as a carbon credits, at £12 per tonne of carbon, to cover our core within our operational boundary and contributing a significant making up 36 per cent of our total footprint, and representing more accurate method of collection of company car information emissions in the UK. As part of this new legal requirement the cost to our business. All carbon emissions have been calculated an increase of 247 per cent from 2010. In 2011 the carbon in our Middle East locations see figure 11. UK's Environment Agency has published the first Carbon using the DEFRA UK 2008 emission factors. associated with our site vehicles and generators in Power & Reduction Commitment performance table. AMEC appears in Scope two – emissions from indirect energy the major (and lowest) ranking 1301 which contains the vast Fig. 11 Fig. 12 Our scope two emissions help us to assess the impact majority of companies including a number of our clients. Scope one Emissions from direct energy (tonnes CO2) Scope three Emissions from travel (tonnes CO2) of the UK Carbon Reduction Commitment. Implementation of sustainability checklists when leasing new offices and the Carbon Disclosure Project amalgamation of offices have helped us to be more efficient. We have been disclosing our carbon performance to the Carbon We have been able to reduce the carbon associated with our Disclosure Project since 2007. We see this as a good way to 2011 10,898 2011 9,315 electricity by 12 per cent from 2010 levels, with a total cost demonstrate our awareness and management of our Company car Long haul air 2010 4,597 2010 11,250 saving on our office utilities of £649,000. We continue to greenhouse gas emissions and show our understanding and 2009 9,844 9,096 2009 keep our employees aware of good practice in terms of management of the risks of climate change. Our disclosure 2008 2,279 2008 11,127 energy management, and in 2011 we purchased energy scores have improved year-on-year since we began disclosing, management software which will help us to reduce our energy and 2011 saw us reach our highest score to date at 79 per cent 2011 7,895 2011 7,586 consumption related to PCs and other networked devices comparable to some of our key client base. Short haul air Generator 2010 337 2010 5,251 – see case study above. Looking forward fuel 2009 492 2009 5,820 2008 428 2008 8,572 Scope three – CO2 emissions from business travel During 2012 we will be implementing new carbon software which Our workforce is highly mobile, therefore travel is both an will allow greater transparency of our data. Improved analysis 2011 24 area of major expenditure and a considerable proportion and trending will enable us to more effectively manage our 2011 4,443 Non company of AMEC’s total footprint see figure 12. In 2011 we saw carbon emissions. As highlighted previously our carbon emissions Heating oil 2010 40 2010 4,391 an increase of 2 per cent in our scope three emissions. are currently calculated using the DEFRA UK 2008 emission 70 car 2009 2009 2,919 This increase is largely attributable to carbon associated factors. The new software will allow us to utilise latest emission 2008 29 2008 1,220 with flights (decrease in long haul flights, with large factors local to our operations which will result in more accurate increase in short haul trips). At the end of 2011 our Americas reporting. A large proportion of our carbon footprint is associated 2011 3,906 2011 231 business introduced a mandatory travel policy to provide with business travel and, although not all of this can be removed, Natural gas Train and bus 2010 4,167 2010 213 greater transparency and detail on travel. It is envisaged we will be looking at cutting our footprint in this area. Towards the 2009 3,471 2009 108 that some changes to the carbon mix associated with travel end of the year we will begin to develop the strategy for meeting 2008 3,765 2008 90 in Americas will be seen as a result in 2012. our next carbon reduction milestone, which will be in 2020. 30 | AMEC plc annual sustainability performance report 2011 AMEC plc annual sustainability performance report 2011 | 31 Integridade 诚信 Səmimiyyət Intégrité Integridad Living our values Our Code of Business Conduct (code) is a set of principles to guide our employees… It is the practical application of our values.” Human rights Trust and loyalty are hard won, but can easily be lost by Ensuring our workforce has read and understood the code is In the event of an actual or suspected material breach of the For the first time, and responding to the commitments we have behaviour inconsistent with our values. Our values explain the key in its effective implementation. For this purpose, hard copies code or any relevant legislation, a member of the committee made as participants of the UN Global Compact, we included behaviours we expect of our employees, suppliers and other of the code have been distributed to employees. Additionally will take responsibility for, and manage any investigation into, specific wording on human and labour rights within the refreshed stakeholders as we deliver on our growth strategy, Vision 2015. regular communications are made by management explaining the relevant matters with the support of the General Counsel & code. These words set out specific behaviours and expectations in Acting with integrity is one of AMEC’s values; this is how we need the important part it plays in the business as a whole. In 2012 an Company Secretary. The committee may use internal resources these areas, pertaining to upholding effective abolition of child or to continue to behave if we are to create a successful and awareness training package will be rolled out to all employees. and is also authorised to employ external consultants to carry forced / compulsory labour, respecting human rights and sustainable business for the long term, trusted by our customers. out any such investigation. providing a workplace which is safe and secure, founded on In 2011 we had 31 reports of potential breaches of the code mutual respect, free from harassment and offering equal 2011 saw the introduction of a refreshed Code of Business through our ethics helpline / email in addition to other reports In 2011 we appointed ethics officers to provide support in setting opportunity for promotion and advancement. Conduct (code), launch of a supply chain code of business direct to management. All of these were investigated and action ethical standards, communicating them, integrating them into conduct and the appointment of ethics officers in each division, taken as appropriate. With the awareness training package and the culture of the business and holding individuals accountable In support of our code, in 2011 a supply chain code of business demonstrating that ethics and integrity are important to us. other initiatives being rolled out, it is anticipated that there may for them. The ethics officers report into the Chief Ethics Officer conduct was developed and published, ensuring that our supply be additional reports received in 2012. (the General Counsel & Company Secretary of AMEC plc) who chain community behaves in a way which is consistent with our Ethical business conduct supports the ethics committee in their activities. values. The supply chain code of conduct covers topics including Our code is a set of principles to guide our employees, and The ethics committee of the board is chaired by one of the those who work on our behalf and under our direction, in the independent non-executive directors and comprises all the Front cover of the code conduct of our day-to-day business. It is equally valid wherever non-executive directors. It upholds AMEC’s core values of Fig. 13 we work in the world and whoever we are working with. It is the honesty, integrity and respect and reviews and monitors Supply chain performance, evaluation tool screenshot practical application of our values. A copy of the code is available compliance with all relevant legislation, regulation and current on amec.com. best practice regarding such matters as the prevention of bribery and corruption, government contracting, competition and import We will never accept or excuse behaviours that are inconsistent / export restrictions and trade compliance. with those laid out in our values and our code. We have procedures in place to report, investigate and deal with The ethics committee is also responsible for the review and potential, suspected or actual breaches. Any suspected approval of the code at least annually to ensure that it breaches may be reported confidentially to a line manager addresses these issues. It considers and reviews the scope and or ethics officer; or to the ethics helpline which is administered planning of all compliance activity within AMEC and reviews by a third party, and supported in many different languages 24 the extent and effectiveness of AMEC’s internal training and hours a day; or to the General Counsel & Company Secretary. external reporting of compliance and ethics matters. 32 | AMEC plc annual sustainability performance report 2011 AMEC plc annual sustainability performance report 2011 | 33 As a company and as employees we In 2011 SOS Children launched an emergency relief appeal to help victims of have a responsibility to act with integrity drought, famine and ongoing conflict in East Africa. AMEC has rallied to provide fantastic and transparency, values which are enshrined support for this cause, undertaking a series of fundraising events and donating over in our Code of Business Conduct.” £32,000. You have been a real beacon of continuous support for those who need help Sue Scholes, Director of Communications most, now more than ever.” Jeff Massey, Corporate Liaison Coordinator, SOS Children. environment, health and safety, ethics and legal requirements, gifts In the places in which we work we seek to invest in community and hospitality and human rights and human resources. It is a Utilising the skills of our people Supporting Movember projects, improve skills, and support education and access to requirement for all suppliers to sign up to the code prior to contract employment. Working with our local communities by building award. Compliance is supported with the completion of the relationships and investing time and effort has the potential to supplier performance assessment which provides a performance bring all parties positive benefits. score against the above topic areas (as well as technical, Launched in 2011, AMEC is a member of the Disaster commercial and delivery) for global review / use. See figure 13 for Resource Partnership (DRP) an international alliance Community investment an example assessment. of engineering and construction companies that have In 2011 AMEC donated £506,000 to good causes and charitable made a commitment to cooperate with the humanitarian institutions worldwide, including matching employee volunteer Anti-bribery and corruption community by providing engineering and construction fundraising. This represents 0.19 per cent of profit, which is We have a number of procedures and initiatives in place to assistance before, during and after a natural disaster down 0.01 per cent from 2010. Figure 14 shows the total ensure that our people and partners are aware of and comply occurs. The partnership provides a mechanism for a contribution from AMEC, including time volunteered during with our anti-bribery and corruption policy, including: centralised community of professionals to leverage their work hours and in-kind donations. skills and assets effectively – not just charitably. Training for employees on the code and our policy on A further £832,146 was raised by our employees (an increase of anti-bribery and corruption through a combination of Working with the International Federation of the Red 44 per cent on 2010 figures) with an additional 6,827 hours online modules and face to face training Cross and Red Crescent, a training programme for volunteered by our employees in their own time. In 2010 AMEC A confidential helpline managed by a third party for volunteers has been developed – with the first five of began to use the London Benchmarking Group model to record employees to raise concerns (anonymously if desired) our engineers undergoing training in October 2011. and analyse our community contributions over and above the without fear of reprisal cash donations. This continued in 2011, providing us with the Sybil Kidder, one of those trained, explained: “It From AMEC offices in Canada, the United Kingdom, ability to begin to compare our contributions over the past Due diligence of business partners and other third appeared when the call went out for volunteers, that and the United States, to locations in Nigeria, Qatar, couple of years in terms of geography and cause type. parties AMEC, and especially Mr Brikho, has a strong desire and Australia, AMEC employees worked globally to raise Monitoring and assurance with the assistance of our to be involved in humanitarian efforts and that’s what funds for Movember, and put AMEC in the Top 60 Fig. 14 Group Internal Audit function. hooked me. I thought the programme was a good fit corporate organisations supporting the charity. £’000 donated by AMEC £’000 donated by AMEC with my personal and work goals, while gaining new Along with the code, these were reviewed and as appropriate experiences in the engineering and construction field. “AMEC had over 40 teams participate this year, 34 18 refreshed in 2011 as part of our ongoing commitment to The training provided a new insight into what it takes to representing more than 400 employees from every Cash anti-bribery and corruption and in light of the UK Bribery Act get aid and comfort to those in need, and included hands AMEC business, making Movember a truly One-AMEC 96 and associated guidance. on projects which gave real meaning to the work effort. event. Our collective efforts have raised just under 150 Hours The last day of the training culminated in building a real £80,000 for the Movember Foundation,” says Mechanical Community ‘temporary shelter’ in Central Park, New York City.” Engineer Bernard Vaughan who helped organise In-kind We believe we have a responsibility to support the communities AMEC’s participation. in which we work and operate and society in general. This Our aim is to eventually have between 15 and 20 includes promoting sustainable development, encouraging professionals trained and committed to the possibility Movember is an annual event where men are sponsored 549 540 553 506 volunteering by our employees and supporting and eliminating of being deployed if needed. to grow moustaches for the entire month of November forced or child labour. to raise funds for prostate cancer awareness, prevention, research and treatment. Working in diverse locations means that we must approach engagement with our communities in a flexible manner. 2008 2009 2010 2011 Note: Hours and in-kind donation only collated from 2010 onwards 34 | AMEC plc annual sustainability performance report 2011 AMEC plc annual sustainability performance report 2011 | 35 SOS Nigeria solar panel project Henderson Mill Elementary School, We are committed to supporting For AMEC, education has a much Tucker, Georgia the communities in which we operate longer lasting benefit than just providing and society in general.” charitable donations.” The sustainability committee in the Tucker, Georgia office has formed a partnership with Henderson Mill Elementary School. The partnership for the 2011-12 school year aims to support the school’s STEM programme (Science, Technology, Engineering and Math), focusing on introducing the students to activities and careers in science and math. Figure 15 gives an indication of where our employees chose to of thousands of children and making sure they have the tools AMEC volunteers from the sustainability committee spend their volunteered time, and what they chose to raise they need to become independent young adults. We continued met with the school’s administrative team, developing money for. Emergency relief remained a large proportion of the with our support in 2011, with £97,187 being donated by AMEC a series of student activities that included an organic money raised (almost 10 per cent) in response to appeals and our employees over the period. garden sustainability project, a math event with students relating to Pakistan and East Africa. Page 34 shows what we are and parents, a visit by 5th graders to AMEC’s office during In addition to the money that was raised for SOS doing to ensure our support is more than just charitable In August AMEC announced a ‘fast day’ appeal to aid the people engineering week, a science project with 3rd graders Children to support the emergency relief efforts for donations. Social welfare, education and young people and in East Africa who were affected by the worst drought since the during science week, and presentations to students by East Africa, the money we raised in 2011 will fund the health areas remain key parts of the community investment / 1950s. Our locations were encouraged to go without one meal AMEC engineers and other professionals for career day. purchase of 24 solar panels, a photovoltaic solar fundraising efforts and we would envisage this continuing. for one day and to sponsor the fasters, or to donate the generator and a groundwater tank to collect rain equivalent to what would have been spent on that meal to the For math night, Tucker office employees developed water with solar pumps and overhead tank for the AMEC strategic charity appeal. We raised nearly £16,000 which was matched by AMEC. activities that taught students about several math Gwagwalada SOS village in Nigeria. Being closely linked Since 2007 AMEC has worked with SOS Children’s Villages as principles. To support the school’s organic garden, to the core of our business (energy and water), the close our global strategic charity, supporting education projects Educational partnerships Tucker employees have designed and are installing proximity to one of our office locations and the long within their villages, helping with running costs of the villages For AMEC, education has a much longer lasting benefit than a rainwater collection system. This is designed to collect term partnership we have with SOS, it was seen as a themselves which provide a safe environment for children to just providing charitable donations. It is a good way of helping rainwater from the roof of the school’s gymnasium and perfect match for our employees to get involved in. flourish, and providing support in their emergency relief efforts. and supporting our communities and it also provides the funnel the water into eight 55 gallon barrels, which SOS plays an important role in supporting the development and opportunity to help our business grow in new regions. AMEC allow the faculty and students of the school to hook up The equipment once fully funded will mean that three sustainability of their local communities, investing in the futures continues to form community and educational partnerships with a traditional garden hose to water their organic garden. families (each with ten children and their SOS mother) local institutions, each designed to draw on the talents of our The garden will be used by the faculty to teach a range will be fully energy self-efficient, and rainwater collected employees with the objective of building skills. These partnerships of subjects from biology and mathematics to literature from the roofs will be used for the WCs, reducing the Fig. 15 are often long-term relationships and activities can include: and creative writing. The AMEC sustainability committee quantity of water used and the soil erosion. We will be Charitable contribution by type is using the design and construction of the rainwater raising funds in 2012 to fund the installation and training Work experience days collection system to teach the students about to complete this project. 40 Supporting a national event brainstorming, problem solving, planning ahead and the engineering process. AMEC was able to have all the % Cash donated 37 Tutoring / lecturing materials needed donated by local vendors. % Hours volunteered 33 Supporting schools with particular projects. During engineering week, 100 5th graders visited our Note: Gwagwalada Children's village was opened in 2007 and 2011 saw the continuation of two of our well-established office. They heard presentations about engineering, saw is located near Abuja in the centre of Nigeria. In an area greatly education support programmes. AMEC’s North Americas their rainwater collection system in a 3D model and affected by poverty, SOS built 12 family houses for 120 21 Employee Scholarship programme awarded 14 scholarships to learned about safety. They took a tour of the office to see 19 homeless and disadvantaged children. Since the educational encourage and recognise academic excellence among the engineers at work and worked on activities with an facilities surrounding the Village are poor, they also built an children, stepchildren and grandchildren of AMEC employees in engineering focus. SOS Primary School, providing 210 children from the SOS 12 North America. The ASK (AMEC Students Kazakhstan) 9 Children’s Village and the local community with an education. 8 8 programme in Kazakhstan sponsors the higher education of The school’s principal, teachers and parents have The Village also includes an SOS Social Centre which as well as 4 around 60 students. welcomed AMEC’s programme in the school. Henderson 3 providing primary health care and community outreach 2 1 1 2 Mill is less than two miles from the AMEC office. The 0 programmes, runs family strengthening programmes to keep school's focus on science, math, technology and Arts and Economic Education and Emergency Environment Health Other disadvantaged families together. The centre benefits Social sustainability makes it an ideal community partner welfare relief approximately 2,000 people each year. for AMEC. development entertainment young people 36 | AMEC plc annual sustainability performance report 2011 AMEC plc annual sustainability performance report 2011 | 37 Delivering excellence to our customers Entregar excelência para os nossos clientes 为客户提供卓越服务 Entregar excelencia a nuestros clientes Fournir l’excellence à nos clients Müştərilərimizə mükəmməl xidmət göstərmək What makes us different? Excellent delivery, focus on customers, and most of all, our people.” Neil Bruce Safety and environment in design Aligned supply chain Ensuring we identify and act on opportunities to engineer Effective supply chain management brings significant value to Excellent project delivery out potential health, safety and environmental risk is key to the success of our projects. Not harming people or the environment AMEC and our stakeholders. It positively impacts at all stages the execution of projects contributing to: are part of our values and doing that at both sites where we work and sites we are engineering will be truly beyond zero. Risk reduction; by ensuring quality and consistency by suppliers in the execution of work we award One of the global 2012 targets is for all engineering projects to Profitability; by focusing on obtaining best value from the have an Inherently Safer Design plan. The intent is to eliminate supply chain and embedding best practices and processes hazards completely or reduce their magnitude significantly Cash flow; by establishing equitable payment terms with A common Project Delivery Policy will improve customer satisfaction and the thereby eliminating / reducing the need for safety systems (engineered controls) and procedures (administrative controls). our suppliers. experience they have with AMEC. By using the same tools and processes to execute our work, projects will be set up faster, more easily and more productively.” Fig. 16 Supply chain management forms an integral part of the AMEC Principles of inherent safety and environmental protection Peter Bailey, Director of Projects and Construction Management Way – ensuring that supply chain management is integrated into the core of every project management plan in support of the AMEC project delivery policy. Focus on customers: Excellent project delivery is the second element of our sustainability Building on the performance evaluation tool which was introduced Making a difference through our delivery strategy. It is supported by the behaviours of living our values; in 2010 (see page 33), 2011 was spent finalising a global supplier 2011 has been a challenging but successful year with some and in turn, by delivering excellence to our customers, registration and qualification tool which will be implemented great contract awards and good progress towards project we support sustainable growth. The remainder of this chapter progressively across AMEC in second quarter 2012. This tool delivery the AMEC Way. We have seen the publication of our describes key elements to the excellent project delivery section evaluates the responses to common questions in key topic areas global project management plan (PMP) and the supporting of our sustainability strategy, and then provides more detail on which are aligned with our Code of Business Conduct, the supply project delivery policy. our markets and sectors. chain code of conduct (see page 33-34) and the UN Global Compact Principles. The evaluation results will be used in conjunction with The economic climate continues to rollercoaster, affecting Consistent delivery the performance evaluation to enable us to be ‘informed buyers’ of some of our markets, and therefore our customers, more To achieve the Vision 2015 growth strategy, we must ensure goods and services from suppliers for ourselves and our clients. than others. In this climate achieving global excellence and excellent project delivery for our customers in a coordinated Innovation consistency in our project delivery was never going to be and consistent way – the AMEC Way. Ensuring we can respond to challenges facing the industry and easy, and making real changes in how we work day-to-day our customers requires innovative and forward thinking solutions. In May 2011, AMEC was awarded the Dwight D. Eisenhower is always challenging. We’ve a long held belief that being In 2011 the AMEC Way delivery team was formed to deliver It is important that we have a working environment that supports Award for Excellence in Services contracting from the US Small a sustainable business is the only way to operate, which transformational change across our core project delivery functions innovation, creativity and a proactive approach to problem solving Business Administration (SBA). The award honours those means of course safely and for the long term. It also means with the establishment of common plans, procedures and tools. and that these solutions and ideas are shared across the business. companies that have excelled in their utilisation of small businesses as suppliers and contractors. Examples of our work helping our local and global communities. in this area include: the establishment of a website to allow A key step in 2011 was the publication of the project delivery One example of how this happens in practice is the annual I’m often asked what makes us different. Excellent delivery, small businesses to register in our small business database; policy, which mandates the global approach to project delivery, Environment & Infrastructure technical summit. The summit brings sharing of our knowledge and resources with small business focus on customers, focus on safety, and ability to network setting the foundations for the future. By the end of 2012 we employees from across the business together to showcase a variety partners; and serving as a mentor in small business across markets and geographies are all key. expect to see the majority of our new projects being executed of innovative solutions. In 2011, this included an approach to reclaim administration. AMEC is committed to providing subcontracting on the new project delivery platform. tailings supernatant fluid and the development of an environmental opportunities to small businesses – as set out in our small Neil Bruce, Chief Operating Officer database making relevant ecological data readily available. Further business programme policy statement. Executive Director details can be found in On reflection 2011, which is on our website. 38 | AMEC plc annual sustainability performance report 2011 AMEC plc annual sustainability performance report 2011 | 39 Oil & Gas Minerals & Metals Primary oil demand is forecast to increase, alongside a change in the production mix with a Demand for commodities continues to grow, stoked by strong growth in emerging markets. greater share being taken by natural gas liquids and unconventional sources. In general oil In general, resources are in more challenging, complex and expensive developments, and gas resources are becoming increasingly difficult to extract, with projects becoming more in more remote and riskier locations, with more logistical infrastructure and environmental complex. With existing infrastructure ageing and reserves depleting, ever more sophisticated controls required. performance and efficiency improvement solutions are required. Marine Well Containment system Conventional Oil & Gas AMEC offers mining consultancy, design and project and Arcelor Mittal Nimba Liberia AMEC offers a wide range of services to a broad range of construction management services to global mining customers customers in Europe, Americas, Middle East and Africa, the producing commodities including potash, gold, diamonds, base Caspian, South East Asia and China. AMEC has global metals, coal, iron ore and uranium. experience of delivering large and complex projects, with capabilities in deepwater and hostile conditions including Arctic The one AMEC approach which combines our expertise in ArcelorMittal is developing three iron ore deposits near environments and earthquake-prone regions. environmental services with our experience in the minerals Yekepa in northern Liberia, with AMEC providing EPCM and metals sector means we are able to offer the client a full services for Phase 2 of the project. There are several challenges in this market which we have to life cycle capacity. This is a differentiator with new projects manage effectively on behalf of our customers. These include increasingly presenting significant logistical challenges Construction of this $1.4 billion facility in a country extending the life of existing assets whist ensuring their associated with remote locations and difficult access and an that has not had any major capital investment for over continued integrity and safety, engineering and working in more increasing requirement for environmental controls. We are 20 years is a key challenge for the project. Another challenging, complex and remote locations and resourcing in seen as a leader in working in harsh environmental and remote challenge is the limited availability of local people with emerging markets where there may be limited qualified or locations because of this approach. necessary expertise. experienced workforces. The project is being executed by AMEC using the In 2011 AMEC was selected by the Marine Well Unconventional Oil & Gas expertise of its global minerals and metals team – Containment Company (MWCC) to design and deliver AMEC is the market leader in the provision of project management Oyu Tolgoi Mongolia a joint undertaking between Oakville, Canada (project components for its Marine Well Containment system. and engineering services to the upstream surface mining management / engineering and procurement) and The system is being designed to ensure a rapid Canadian oil sand sector. The acquisition of BDR in 2008 brought Johannesburg, South Africa (on site construction response in the instance of damage to a subsea well in-situ experience which positions AMEC for the anticipated management). The use of the AMEC Way project and to minimise environmental impact – addressing shift as the new technology is increasingly being used, resulting The Oyu Tolgoi mine is one of the world’s largest delivery system and Convero (our integrated project the industry need to quickly react and contain problems in lower energy use and fewer tailing management issues. copper-gold mines under development. It is in the south management system) allows a 'one AMEC' team to associated with well integrity. Gobi region of Mongolia, in a remote, land-locked site work consistently together across various locations AMEC is aware of the environmental concerns raised by with extreme weather conditions, poor local ensuring we utilise our strengths and expertise to best The containment system will be designed to capture activities in the oil sands. The capability of our Environment & infrastructure in addition to high seismic loads, wind deliver the project for our customer. hydrocarbons from a damaged well without significantly Infrastructure division is available to support our customers, conditions and limited water supply – all providing major increasing wellhead pressure. It will capture, store and ensuring they meet and, where possible, exceed local design and logistics challenges for the team. For the construction management and support services offload up to 100,000 barrels of fluid a day from a flowing legislation, providing them with solutions to environmental we will utilise some of our workforce in the Philippines well and be capable of flaring 200 million standard cubic challenges in areas such as waste management, environmental AMEC is currently involved in six separate projects for planners, QA/QC officers, document and materials feet of natural gas a day. It is designed to operate in permitting, and regulatory support and tailing management. associated with the underground expansion of the mine controllers – it is anticipated that 40 per cent of our up to 10,000 feet of water in a variety of metocean site with an overall goal to demonstrate technical and workforce will be from this location – utilising our global conditions. When completed the modular assembly economic feasibility of significantly expanding the resource pool. Training programmes will be implemented will be stored and maintained at permanent shore production capacity by adding an underground mine. so that over the duration of the project the local base locations. We believe our success in securing this Other project examples include Our selection has been an important step in our strategy population can be given skills that will assist in the project can be directly attributed to our proven track Improving the accessibility of ecological data to become a preferred supplier of underground study ongoing operation of the mine as well as future record in the delivery of complex, high profile projects, Innovative approach to reclaiming tailings fluid process and EPCM services in the mining sector. construction work. total commitment to world class safety performance Approach to life of field emissions forecasting and our total engineering capability. 40 | AMEC plc annual sustainability performance report 2011 AMEC plc annual sustainability performance report 2011 | 41 Clean Energy Environment Climate change adaption Greater Moncton & Infrastructure Clean energy provides an increasingly key part of the global energy mix, supported by growing The environmental consulting and engineering The Greater Moncton Area in Canada is a highly urbanised demand for energy, energy security requirements, environmental regulations and government location that discharges into the Bay of Fundy, home to market is both large and highly fragmented, the highest tides in the world (tidal range over 14 m). mandates. The world is looking for more energy with less carbon and greater security of supply, however the climate change and energy The purpose of this project was to provide the Greater which is leading to an increase in the use of, and investment in cleaner energy solutions. services sub-sector is expected to grow Moncton Area with a flood risk assessment based on impacts of climate change, to identify vulnerable significantly as a result of strong underlying infrastructure, to recommend adaptation measures, legislative and political drivers. and to provide governance policies and strategies. Nuclear HALES Partnership Nuclear The flooding risk, related to extreme high water level, was Prior to the Fukushima Daiichi nuclear plant incident in March determined by the cumulative effect of five components: 2011, nuclear power capacity had been projected to increase AMEC operates in four sectors within this market: water, tide; storm surge; freshwater flow; sea level rise; and land significantly. Several governments are now reconsidering their transportation and infrastructure, government services and subsidence. It was necessary to understand how these policies, however many are expected continue with their plans industrial / commercial. The skills used are highly transferable parameters were affected by climatic change, their though there have been delays as safety standards are across AMEC’s sectors and customers – as shown on page 6. dependence on each other, and the timing and coincidence reviewed. With many nuclear facilities reaching the end of their of the underlying processes. Mapping (spatial distribution) active life over the next 20 years, the clean up and management Water of worst case water levels permitted the identification of of the nuclear legacy is one of the most demanding challenges Water is a scarce resource, with growth in the sector driven by vulnerable infrastructure and effects on civic functions. facing the industry. AMEC is well positioned to support the full demographic, economic, social and technological factors. Suggestions for the development of a flood plain life cycle of nuclear energy, from new build to reactor support, AMEC provides a multi-disciplinary approach to water projects management strategy (governance, organisational design, The HALES Replacements HASTs Project, based at and finally to nuclear decommissions and waste management, at all stages of planning, study, design and construction. We legislation, regulations and bylaws) were provided. Sellafield in Cumbria, UK is a long term project with joint as well as support the jobs and skills development required. seek to provide solutions for our government, business and venture partners Balfour Beatty and AREVA. The project industrial customers, with our primary areas of focus being The AMEC team developed several statistical procedures will provide a new facility to store radioactive liquor, which Renewables / Bioprocess water supply, storm water, water quality and water treatment. regarding precipitation and tidal dynamics that enabled arises from nuclear reprocessing operations. Growth in the renewables sector is driven by the requirements the joint probability of events to be analysed, and the for energy security and the need to meet national and Transportation / Infrastructure resulting water levels determined. One highlight of the project to date is the value international emission and pollution control legislation. We use our expertise to provide sustainable solutions which engineering activities during the design phase which AMEC’s focus in this market is on wind, solar, biomass and maintain, improve and increase the capacity of transportation have saved tens of millions of pounds. Examples include biofuels projects. Being technology-neutral, we are able to offer infrastructure, whether highways and roads, ports and marine or rail the redesign of the building to reduce the overall size and our customers flexibility and the ability to provide a full service – often in extreme conditions. One example is the specialised marine volume of the building – this will achieve considerable EPC solution. weather forecasting services which provides operational savings in the construction phase of up to £20 million. support to offshore oil companies, marine contractors and Kuwait KOC clean up Power vessel operators. In 2011 the partnership was named as 'Best of the Best' With the demand and supply of electricity expected to increase at the Birse Civils Managing Directors Safety Awards in over the period to 2035, government policies are expected to Government services AMEC has been contracted as the Project Management recognition of the safety performance achieved on its influence the cost and hence relative mix of different We provide a broad range of services, mainly to the US Federal Company (PMC) to deliver a framework for the remediation, last project carried out at Sellafield. This shows the technologies and fuels to satisfy the demand. AMEC has Government who are the largest procurer of environmental rehabilitation and oil recovery of contaminated areas importance of safety on our projects. expertise in the delivery of state of the art boilers, gas turbines, services in the world. Work is often completed in diverse and arising from historical exploration activities. Feasibility gasifiers and turbine generators with high efficiency and low challenging environments. studies which commenced in 2007 mapped over 7,000 emission technology, across the relative mix of technologies contaminated features over four oilfields. Given the and fuels that will be needed. Industrial / Commercial technical challenges and diversity of scope, specialists This includes compliance and due diligence services, ranging from across AMEC's divisions and geographic locations Transmission & Distribution (T&D) from geotechnical and environmental to materials and water have been assembled to deliver the work, including Other project examples include The IEA World Economic Outlook 2011 suggests a total of $7.1 resourcing consulting. AMEC’s knowledge of regulatory project engineers, risk assessors, HSE professionals, Local knowledge and global expertise utilised trillion needs to be invested in T&D infrastructure between 2011 environments is used to apply a risk-based approach to hydro-geologists, soil scientists, practitioners, remediation for biomass project and 2035. We have long-standing relationships with T&D environmental liability assessment and management. experts, ecologists and restoration experts. This Infrastructure greenhouse gas reduction modelling system owners so are positioned to support them in the delivery demonstrates the extensive range of our capabilities In-house solar expertise optimising returns of the required refurbishments and replacements of assets as when operating under the one AMEC approach. they reach the end of their technical lifetime. 42 | AMEC plc annual sustainability performance report 2011 AMEC plc annual sustainability performance report 2011 | 43 Table 17 Table 18 2011 results Acquisitions 2011 2010 Initial Change £millions £millions Date Business Market consideration £million Continuing operations: Revenue 3,261 2,951 +11% 11% February 2011 BCI Engineers and Florida based £11m Adjusted profit before tax 311 280 +11% Scientists Inc engineering consultancy 259 259 February 2011 qedi Aberdeen based project £33m Profit before tax delivery company 17% Adjusted diluted earnings per share 70.5p 62.5p +13% February 2011 Zektin Australian based specialist £26m engineering consultancy Dividend per share 30.5p 26.5p +15% Revenue up June 2011 MACTEC US based environmental £183m consultancy focussing on engineering services, 2011 compared to 2010 water and mining Employee numbers up £263 2011 compared to 2010 million invested in acquisitions Sustainable growth In 2011 What did we achieve in 2011? AMEC’s vision is that by continually 2011 saw a strong focus on our customer relationships which An AMEC Way of doing things is now firmly embedded in our qedi, provides ‘technical integrity’ project delivery services to delivering excellence, we inspire trust resulted in a number of contract wins from our existing clients organisation. Common tools and processes are enabling our international oil companies (IOCs) in the UK, Gulf of Mexico, and loyalty in our customers. as well as from new ones, such as GDF SUEZ, Paladin, URENCO engineers to work together wherever they are, and ensure Middle East, the Caspian and Australia. Managing the and MWCC. We also gained new customers through our quality and consistency of project delivery. These tools allow us technical integrity of the completion and commissioning acquisitions. to work closer together and provide leaner and more effective phase is critical in ensuring any major project is delivered services to our clients, whilst opening up large growth satisfactorily and the facility meets the operating criteria for We delivered another year of excellent results with revenue opportunities across the sectors. which it was designed. AMEC’s capability, geographic Our Vision 2015 strategy is focused on growth, which we believe up 11 per cent from 2010 with a mix of organic growth and coverage and customer relationships, combined with qedi’s can be achieved through the skills of our people and the way in acquisitions. Earnings Per Share (EPS) was up 13 per cent and Predicting the economy is difficult and the outlook is uncertain, specialist technology and expertise, provide us with the which they deliver successful projects for our customers; the we finished the year with a record order book of £3.7 billion however we see 2012 as another successful year for us. ability to deliver integrity across the whole life-cycle of a strength of the customer relationships this engenders; the see page 3 of 2011 annual report and accounts for a summary. project for our customers. markets and geographies in which we are positioned; and the Acquisitions strength of our balance sheet. We continued to invest in our people who we believe represent Acquisitions are an integral part of AMEC’s vision and make a MACTEC provides a similar wide range of services to AMEC’s a differentiator in the eyes of our customers. AMEC is a people key contribution to AMEC’s long term prospects. In 2011 AMEC existing E&I business, including environmental planning, This third element of our sustainability strategy sustainable business, therefore our people are critical to our success. invested £263 million in acquisitions all of which expanded assessment and remediation, infrastructure engineering, growth provides the linkage from living our values and Through acquisition and proactive recruitment activities, AMEC’s geographic reach, expertise and services see Table 18. water resources and construction support services. It has a excellent project delivery to our Vision 2015 business strategy we brought thousands of professionals to AMEC, with our broad range of high-quality, long-term clients operating in and delivery of the company vision see pages 18-20 of the employee numbers up 17 per cent on 2010 levels. Zektin is a 200-person engineering consultancy that the energy, commercial / industrial, transportation / 2011 annual report and accounts for detail on the Vision 2015 provides front-end engineering design (FEED) and infrastructure and federal sectors. In North America, E&I strategy. engineering services to the oil and gas market, in has previously had a stronger presence in the Western US particular coal seam methane (CSM), and the controlledand in Canada, so the combination allows AMEC greater environment market, which includes the bioprocess, access to new customers and regions and MACTEC a better biotechnology and pharmaceuticals sectors. The acquisition international platform for growth. Table 16 provides further capability on each coast of Australia as well as access to the CSM market, one of our targets. Of major importance to the acquisition process is the management Context Market Environment Strategy Vision 2015 Priorities delivery and growth of integration and culture – a case study of the integration process Customers Integrated services BCI Engineers and Scientists Inc is a Florida based of a previous acquisition can be found on page 19. Growing demand for energy and resources 200-person firm that focused on both the water and Increased complexity People Delivery excellence For more information and full details of our financial data please see mining sectors. The acquisition provides additional Environment and sustainability imperative Growth Growth capability in these markets as part of our E&I business. AMEC plc 2011 annual report and accounts at amec.com. Delivering the AMEC Way 44 | AMEC plc annual sustainability performance report 2011 AMEC plc annual sustainability performance report 2011 | 45 Sustainability performance information AMEC Sustainability Report 2011: In addition to our assessment of the AMEC sustainability report against AA1000AS we considered specific sustainability performance improvements in AMEC a parallel set of published performance targets is required. These will focus minds and Assurance Statement and performance information including energy, people, ethics and hands on sustainability priorities and allow report readers to community affairs data. easily judge AMEC’s progress. Commentary, Summary In reviewing AMEC’s carbon footprint calculations we were satisfied in AMEC’s response to several challenges raised, for The judicious use of freshwater resources is increasingly an expectation of responsible corporate behaviour. AMEC has example AMEC’s use of Defra’s 2008 UK emission factors across identified water resource management as a key strategic aspect its global carbon footprint. Defra revises emission factors each for its business. In order to effectively address this issue, AMEC year, with the most recent factors produced in 2011, while also should seek to better understand its impacts and use in this area. providing different electricity emission factors for different countries. The up-to-date, and country-by-country, factors Methodological notes should be utilised in calculating the carbon footprint. We The assurance work was commissioned in August 2011 and commend AMEC in openly acknowledging the limitations of its completed in April 2012. Detailed records were kept of meetings, current carbon reporting system and therefore its reported assurance visits and correspondence relating to the inclusivity, carbon footprint. With the implementation of new collection materiality and responsiveness of the report, as well as to The scope of our assurance software in place in 2012, it is hoped that these issues will be technical matters relating to the accuracy and presentation of AMEC has commissioned Corporate Citizenship to provide whom AMEC has an impact and who have an impact on AMEC, overcome. As with the introduction of any new reporting software data. This is a summary version of our assurance statement and external assurance and a commentary on its Sustainability and to enable their participation in identifying issues and finding the processes surrounding it, including staff training, must be commentary. A complete version may be found at www.amec.com. Report 2011. The contents of the report is entirely and solely the solutions. We found clear evidence of robust processes in place. adequate and consistently applied to ensure that human factors responsibility of AMEC. Corporate Citizenship is responsible for AMEC’s response to the inclusivity principle was reinforced this in reporting risk are minimised. A team of three, comprising a Director, an Associate Director, and its assurance. year through the company’s direct engagement of a stakeholder a Consultant undertook the assurance and commentary process. roundtable. We commend AMEC for taking this approach, for In addition to the above, AMEC has responded positively to the The team has a variety of professional and technical The assurance provides the reader with an independent, external publishing the findings of the roundtable on its website and for discovery that utility information for some parts of the UK competencies and experience. For further information please assessment of the report and in particular how it corresponds using this as a springboard to improved reporting. business obtained from a third party supplier was not refer to our website www.corporate-citizenship.com. This was an with the AA1000AS standard (2008). The AMEC report is intended consistently reported throughout the year. AMEC has crossindependent assurance with no member of our team having for the general reader and for more specialist audiences who Materiality determining the relevance and significance of issues checked its data entries against the end-of-year data set otherwise worked with AMEC during the reporting period. The have a professional interest in AMEC’s sustainability to AMEC and its stakeholders. We support AMEC’s switch to a provided and has changed the relevant energy data accordingly. fees for this assurance make up less than 0.5% of Corporate performance. report structure in-line with its new sustainability strategy. This Going forward the installation of automatic meter reading Citizenship’s revenue for the reporting year. change – recommended by the stakeholder roundtable has devices across many sites is being considered, the installation of Our assurance is a Type 1 assurance as defined by the standard, created a robust reporting framework to address the relevant which would be likely to diminish opportunities for errors from The opinions expressed in this external assurance statement and in that it evaluates the nature and extent of adherence to the issues and align them with stakeholder value. this source. commentary are intended to extend understanding of AMEC’s AA1000AS principles of inclusivity, materiality and non-financial performance and should not be used or relied upon responsiveness. Our assurance used disclosed information as its Responsiveness response to stakeholder issues that affect Our review of group personnel data highlighted several to form any judgments or take any decisions of a financial nature. starting point and then investigated the underlying systems, AMEC’s sustainability performance. We found evidence of a challenges particularly in headcount as measured by different processes and sustainability performance information to arrive at well-managed process that responds to key groups, including operational functions. We are satisfied that AMEC’s shift to Corporate Citizenship is a leading assuror of corporate its conclusions. This was a ‘moderate’ level assurance that is to customers and employees. The inclusion of a greater emphasis consistent of end of year headcount (except where it specifically responsibility reports. The company is a member of say that we believe there to be sufficient evidence to support the on the product areas and customer led stories was an important refers to financial system data) is the most reliable approach for AccountAbility (Institute for Social and Ethical Accountability). This statement such that the risk of the conclusion being in error is advance for AMEC. The challenge now for AMEC is to build on sustainability reporting purposes. is the first year we have provided AMEC with assurance, a reduced. Pages 48 – 49, (AMEC’s GRI and UNGC tables) and this momentum by increasing the strength and number of process that commenced by convening and facilitating a content derived from AMEC’s Annual Report and Accounts do not stakeholder voices in order to allow readers to gain a better grasp In reviewing Ethics and community data we noted AMEC’s Stakeholder Panel in November 2011. form part of our assurance. of how key issues have shaped the report . strengthened internal processes and demonstrably responsive approach in these areas. AMEC is a member of the LBG (London Benchmarking Group Opinion and conclusions This AA1000AS assurance succeeds that provided by another www.lbg-online.net), an evaluation framework for corporate In our opinion the AMEC’s Sustainability Report 2011 reflects the supplier for AMEC Sustainability Report 2010. We note that AMEC Looking forward community involvement which we manage on behalf of its principles of AA1000AS (2008): inclusivity, materiality and has been responsive to their recommendations related to To become truly sustainable companies need to take a longer members and adherents. responsiveness. We comment on each individually below. improving materiality processes and content weighting. We also term approach to responsible behaviour and strategy. AMEC’s note AMEC’s positive journey to improved data management, but Vision 2015 is a clear start to plotting the sustainability journey for Corporate Citizenship Inclusivity the commitment to be accountable to those on recognise that for carbon, in particular, this journey continues. the next few years. However, to really drive practice and London 30 April 2012 46 | AMEC plc annual sustainability performance report 2011 AMEC plc annual sustainability performance report 2011 | 47 Signposting our Global Compact Principle 4 – “Businesses should uphold the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour.” How AMEC has responded to support this principle: Code of Business Conduct Revision of the code to include human rights policy Page 32-33 Sustainability Report Supply chain code of conduct Employee training In support of the code, ensuring suppliers are aware and aligned with our expected behaviours All employees received a copy of the code.Training modules for all employees to complete 33, 39 32-33 Ethics hotline Confidential ethics helpline, available 24hrs a day, supporting many different languages 32 Global Reporting Initiative Our report has been produced in alignment with the GRI 3.0 standard. We have self-assessed the report to C+ application level. Global Compact Principle 5 – “Businesses should uphold the effective abolition of child labour.” How AMEC has responded to support this principle: Code of Business Conduct Revision of our code include human rights policy 32-33 UN Global Compact Supply chain code of conduct In support of our code, ensuring suppliers are aware and aligned with our expected behaviours 33, 39 GRI section no Standard disclosure Page GRI section no Standard disclosure Page Employee training All employees received a copy of the code. Training modules for all employees to complete 32-33 1.1 Statement from CEO 4-5 EC1 Direct economic value 45 Ethics hotline Confidential ethics helpline, available 24hrs a day, supporting many different languages 32 2.1-2.10 Organisational profile 8 EC8 Community infrastructure 35-37 3.1-3.8 Profile and boundary 7 LA1 Employee workforce 14 Global Compact Principle 6 – “Businesses should uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation.” How AMEC has responded to support this principle: 3.10 – 3.12 Restatement 7 LA2 Employee turnover 16 Code of Business Conduct Revision of the code of conduct to include human rights policy 32-33 4.1 – 4.4 Governance 9 LA4 Collective bargaining 19 Ethics hotline Confidential ethics helpline, available 24hrs a day, supporting many different languages 32 4.16 – 4.17 Stakeholder engagement 10-13 LA7 Rates of injury 24-25 EN3 Energy consumption 30 LA11 Programmes for skills management 16 Global Compact Principle 7 – “Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges.” How AMEC has responded to support this principle: EN23 Spillage 28 SO1 Community 35-37 HSE 2015 Vision Detailing our strategic environmental management objective designed to enhance our management approach 20 New 14 core expectations Consolidating our integrated approach 26 Environmental standards Setting clear group-wide standards, supporting our core expectations 26-27 HSSE leadership team Reviewing key HSE risks across the business 21 AMEC is a participant in the UN Global Compact – the tables below show how we are responding to the UN Global Compact principles and where in the report you can find further information. Water management Internal risk review of water use and scarcity 29 Global Compact Principle 8 – “Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility.” How AMEC has responded to support this principle: Global Compact Principle 1 – “Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights.” How AMEC has responded to support this principle: Page Road map Setting performance standards across the group 20 Code of Business Conduct Revision of code of business conduct (code) to include human rights policy 32-33 CO2 target Setting and monitoring reduction targets across the group 29 HSE Management System Ensuring our employees globally have a safe environment to work 20-25 Supply chain Inclusion of environmental aspects in group-wide procurement evaluations 39 Supplier Code of Conduct In support of our code, ensuring suppliers are aware and aligned with our expected behaviours 33, 39 Incident reporting / investigation Trackwise reporting, trending and investigation gateway 24, 28 Development of HSE volume of Employee training and awareness All employees received a copy of the code. Training modules for all employees to complete 32 Standard Project Management Plan template across operations covering mandatory H, S &E controls 22 standard project man. plans Water management Internal risk review of water use and scarcity 29 Global Compact Principle 2 – “Businesses should make sure they are not complicit in human rights abuses.” Global Compact Principle 9 – “Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies.” How AMEC has responded to support this principle: How AMEC has responded to support this principle: Code of Business Conduct Revision of our code to include human rights policy 32-33 Water management Service provision focusing on water supply, storm water, water quality and water treatment 43 Supply chain code of conduct In support of our code, ensuring suppliers are aware and aligned with our expected behaviours 33, 39 Renewables Service provision in Wind, Solar, Biomass and Biofuels 42 Employee training and awareness All employees received a copy of the code. Training modules for all employees to complete 32-33 Clean energy Life cycle service for nuclear industry 42 Ethics hotline Confidential ethics helpline, available 24hrs a day, supporting many different languages 32 Sustainability services e.g. PI emissions forecasting software 38-43 Global Compact Principle 3 – “Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining.” Global Compact Principle 10 – “Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms including extortion and bribery.” How AMEC has responded to support this principle: How AMEC has responded to support this principle: Code of Business Conduct Revision of the code to include human rights policy 32-33 Policy Anti-bribery and corruption policy 34 Statistical data Collection of data relating to coverage 19 Employee training Training for all employees on the code and policy through online modules and face to face training 32-33 Helpline Confidential helpline for employees to raise concerns 32 Due diligence Due diligence of business partners and other third parties 34 Assurance Monitoring and assurance by AMEC’s internal audit function 34 48 | AMEC plc annual sustainability performance report 2011 AMEC plc annual sustainability performance report 2011 | 49 Performance table AMEC in numbers 2011 2010 2009 2008 People Average number of employees (FTE) (as stated in annual report) 25,757 21,973 20,762 22,516 Number of strategic recruits** 471 114 138 217 % Internal promotion rate** 7.20 3.87 9.72 6.73 % Employee instigated turnover 11 10 6 10 % Total workforce Male 77 76 77 79 Female 23 24 23 21 % Senior managers female 11 10 10 9 % Managers and professionals female 19 17 19 19 % Workforce covered by collective bargaining agreements 9 15 23 25 Employee survey response rate 65% 72% 66% 63% Employee survey engagement score 67% 68% 73% 67% Safety Number of fatalities Employees 0 0 0 0 Subcontractor 0 0 0 0 Other 0 0 0 0 LTIFR (per 200,000 man hours) 0.04 0.06 0.04 0.07 TRCFR (per 200,000 man hours) 0.37 0.42 0.44 0.65 AIFR (per 200,000 man hours) 3.12 3.54 4.34 5.14 No. prosecutions 0 0 0 2 No. fines 0 0 1 2 No. prohibitions 0 0 0 0 No. improvement notices 2 2 2 2 Occupational health days lost 505 1,333 * * Occupational health cases 15 22 * * Environment Regulatory action 0 1 0 0 No. environmental incidents 179 160 333 423 Total volume spilled (litres) 7149 * * * Absolute carbon 48,704 (***62,727) 51,447 55,411 57,898 Tonnes carbon per employee 1.891 (***2.435) 2.328 2.669 2.632 Tonnes carbon per £million turnover 14.935 (***19.236) 17.335 21..823 22.214 Total Scope 1 (‘000 tonnes carbon) 8.7 (***22.7) 13.1 13.9 7.0 Total Scope 2 (‘000 tonnes carbon) 18.4 20.9 23.6 30.4 Total Scope 3 (‘000 tonnes carbon) 21.6 21.1 17.9 20.5 Integrity Reports of potential breaches of our code of business conduct via hotline 31 47 39 17 £’000 donated to charity by AMEC 506 553 540 549 Total hours volunteered by our employees 10,725 10,895 * * Total community contribution **** £1.52m £1.15m * * * Not previously collated ** Includes figures from divisions only *** Figure included site diesel for PPE division never previously reported **** Include AMEC donation, employee and other contributions, in kind donations and volunteer hours in work time. 50 | AMEC plc annual sustainability performance report 2011 If you have any questions or comments, you can email, write or call our Sustainability Programme Manager, Frances Fay. Full contact details are available on amec.com
