Global Transport and Logistics 2011 Corporate Social Responsibility Report Contents Corporate Social Responsibility still a high-priority issue..............................................................3 DSV in brief......................................................................................4 Corporate Social ­Responsibility at DSV.................................6 Environment and Climate...........................................................9 Business Ethics and Anti-Corruption...................................11 Page 9 Employees and W ­ orking Environment................................13 Non-financial highlights of the Group.................................15 Accounting policies for non-financial data........................16 Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) content index...............17 Page 13 D SV co r po r ate so cial responsibilit y report 2 0 1 1 – Cont ent s 2 Corporate Social Responsibility still a high-priority issue DSV is heading in the right direction with several activities and new targets. We are pleased to present the second Report on Corporate Social Responsibility of DSV. This year, the Report has been expanded to constitute the main CSR Report of DSV. This is in line with the increasing focus on CSR in DSV as CSR policies, strategy and practices become an increasingly integral part of our business strategy. The basis of the Group’s CSR work was further formalised and structured in 2011. The efforts to implement CSR policies in DSV contribute to reducing a number of financial and business risks, and we regard this work as an important means to turn these risks into opportunities. Jens Bjoern Andersen, CEO of DSV A/S In 2011, DSV set a number of CSR targets, including specific targets for the carbon emissions of the Group. We have emphasised the importance of setting targets that whistleblower scheme enabling all employees to report any must be achieved soon, ensuring that they concern us who situations, events or circumstances that seem wrong or are are here now, and not only the next generation. The Group direct violations of the DSV policies and guidelines. has launched specific follow-up initiatives on these targets, e.g., to ensure that DSV has reduced its carbon emissions As appears from this Report, we are on track in relation to and thereby improved the energy efficiency of the indimany of the areas of importance to DSV and our stakevidual transport activities by 15% by the end of 2015. holders. I am convinced that business practices that build on sustainability and business ethics will become an inAs a transport provider, DSV operates in an industry that creasingly critical parameter in an increasingly competitive emits large quantities of greenhouse gases, entailing major market. DSV is therefore committed to ensuring continued challenges for the climate. In other words, we are part of focus on CSR internally as well as externally in the areas the problem, but that does not mean that we should not be where DSV is able to exercise influence. part of the solution and assume responsibility for reducing the environmental impact of our activities. We are willing to By its second Progress Report, DSV wants to express the take on that responsibility, and we intend to work hard to Company’s continued support for the United Nations Global achieve our targets in this area as well as in other areas. Compact initiative and the ten fundamental principles. At the same time, DSV also encourages all business partners Anti-corruption is another issue area, and DSV has develof the Group to support the initiative. oped a clear policy that prohibits our employees from accepting or offering bribery of any kind. We want to support a transparent and fair market, and we have therefore set a clear target of zero violations of our Code of Conduct. As a Jens Bjoern Andersen means to meet this target, we have decided to establish a D SV cor por ate so cia l r e spo n sib il it y r e po rt 2 0 1 1 – Corpor at e Soc ial Responsibilit y st ill a high-priorit y iss ue 3 DSV in brief Global Transport and Logistics. DSV is a global supplier of transport and logistics solutions. The Group has subsidiaries in more than 60 countries and more than 21,000 employees wordlwide. DSV Air & Sea DSV Air & Sea The Air & Sea Division specialises in the transportation of • 730,000 20’ containers equal to 55 x Emma Maersk cargo by air and sea. In addition to the conventional freight • 260,000 tonnes of airfreight equal to 2,500 x Boeing services offered through its global network, the Division 747 freighter also has a Project Department. The Division has 6,000 employees and offices in more than 60 countries. DSV Road DSV Road With a complete European network, the DSV Road Division • Operates more than 17,000 trucks in Europe is among the top three transport companies in Europe with – every day about 17,000 trucks on the roads every day. The Division • Has more than 200 terminals has 10,000 employees and offices in 32 countries. DSV Solutions DSV Solutions DSV Solutions specialises in logistics solutions across the • 2,2 million m2 warehousing facilities in Europe entire supply chain including freight management, customs equal to 450 football fields clearance, w ­ arehousing and distribution, information man• 200,000 order lines – per day agement and e-business support. The Division has 5,000 employees and offices in 16 European countries. Asset light and resilient business model Strong m&A Strong market track record position Active capital High growth allocation industry margins among the best in the industry D SV co r po r ate so cia l responsibilit y report 2 0 1 1 – DSV in brief 4 Revenue* 43,710 DKKm Air & Sea Road Solutions 41% 48% 11% Revenue* 43,710 DKKm 55% 34% 11% Employees** 21,678 Number of 29% 46% 25% * External revenue and EBITA after elimination of internal transactions. ** Including Group functions. ■ Countries in which DSV has its own companies D SV co r po r ate so cia l responsibilit y report 2 0 1 1 – DSV in brief 5 Corporate Social ­Responsibility at DSV Increased focus on Corporate Social Responsibility reduces business and financial risks and turns risks into opportunities. This Report is the second Communication on Progress finds it obvious to also include this part of the value chain in of DSV to the United Nations Global Compact since DSV the Report. joined the initiative in 2009. The Report covers the period January 2011-31 December 2011. Stronger market position The Report is structured around the ten Global Compact and image through CSR principles and is divided into the key areas of priority with Running its day-to-day operations based on CSR policies, the highest relevance to the core business of DSV. These guidelines and targets enable DSV to better tackle variareas are: Human/labour rights, environment/climate and ous and specific challenges in the market. DSV experiences business ethics/anti-corruption. The reporting parameters that more and more customers expect that the Group’s of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) are also a source CSR policies are designed to contribute to reducing internal of inspiration and DSV has used the GRI guidelines and costs and the carbon footprint of the Group’s transport indicators in preparing the CSR report, where possible and operations. In other words, DSV’s ability to offer flexible relevant. transport solutions at lower prices and with a reduced environmental impact has become increasingly important to Focus on the value chain customers. The Report mainly focuses on the parts of the value chain Another important aspect of the CSR activities of DSV over which DSV has the most influence, i.e. activities coninvolves the mitigation of business and financial risks as it trolled directly by the Parent company or subsidiaries of supports the efforts made by the Group in achieving the DSV, and the employees of the Group. DSV outsources its targets. For this purpose, DSV has established an effectransport operations to subcontractors to a predominant tive risk management system and other measures, thereby extent. In other words, the physical transport activities are turning risks into opportunities. carried out by subcontractors (hauliers, shipping companies DSV strongly supports that the highly competitive and airlines) under an agreement with DSV, but DSV is not transport market is as transparent and fair as possible and directly responsible for the actual transport activity. DSV that market prices are determined by supply and demand has significant influence over these activities and therefore among the players in the market. The mechanism by which The DSV value chain Employees. Values and Transport Industry organisations. Governments and activities in DSV A/S and ­subcontractors. Labour unions. other legislative subsidiaries. Other subcontractors. ­Neighbours to locations. bodies. ­Supranational Sponsorships and ­legislative bodies. charitable donations. Decreasing influence D SV co r po r ate so cia l r e spo n sib il it y report 2 0 1 1 – Corpor at e Soc ial ­Responsibilit y at DSV 6 the transport provider offering the best service at the best incorporated into the Code. The revised Code of Conduct is price wins the assignment will benefit both buyers and proavailable to all employees at the corporate intranet of DSV. viders of transport services (and ultimately the consumers) With the aim to influence the part of the value chain over in a long-term perspective. which DSV has little possibility of exercising direct influence, Management also decided in 2011 to develop one CSR at Management level common Supplier Code of Conduct that applies to all sub– a clear signal to the entire organisation contractors of the Group. The Code is to be implemented The work of the Board of Directors comprises various internally in all Group companies in early 2012 and will then ad-hoc tasks as well as various fixed tasks stated in the be communicated externally. This initiative is intended to annual cycle of the Board. CSR is a permanent item in the ensure focus on and compliance with the DSV policies on annual cycle and includes the task of reviewing the Group’s business ethics, also by our closest business partners. Code of Conduct, whistleblower scheme, etc. The deciMoreover, as an element of the implementation of CSR sions made by the Board of Directors are subsequently policies and guidelines in DSV, the managements of the naimplemented by the Executive Board. As an embedded eletional companies must submit a signed management statement of Management’s responsibilities CSR is a high-focus ment by which they declare that their individual organisaarea of the Group, and DSV thereby sends a clear signal to tions have implemented and comply with the CSR policies the entire organisation about the importance of CSR to all and guidelines. Group companies. CSR targets and activities closely linked In 2011, Management set a number of targets based on Annual general the adopted strategy and policies to drive progress and meeting emphasise the importance of CSR at DSV. The targets build on the three key CSR areas with the highest relevance to board of directors the core business of DSV and which are of concern to the internal and external stakeholders of the Group. In addition, Management has established a number of activities audit committee for each target to ensure that efforts are made to meet the targets. Executive board Group functions Outlook – continuous implementation Division Management Division Management Division Management of activities Air & SeA Road Solutions The ability to continuously obtain strategic advantages through the work towards achieving the CSR objectives organisation is important to DSV, and the Group therefore intends to continue the implementation of the code of business ethics in 2012, both within the Group and relative to suppliers. In addition, various activities will be launched in the DSV companies to meet the CSR targets set by Management for the Group. DSV guidelines and policies As stated above, internal processes have been established – also for business partners with the aim to validate the internal CSR reports and monitor The implementation of CSR in all activities in which DSV has the implementation of policies, guidelines and targets by the a controlling interest is a key element of the Group’s stratDSV companies. These processes enable DSV to follow up on egy. This enables the Group to meet any strategic chalthe measures to mitigate the key risks of the Group and to lenges in the market in a financially and socially responsible promote CSR in general throughout the Group. DSV expects manner, now and in the future. to continue and increase this focus in 2012. The basis of the Group’s CSR work was further formalised and structured in 2011. Various initiatives were launched during the year with focus on the ongoing process of implementing and practicing the CSR policies in all companies of the Group. DSV has followed up on this work through internal control processes to validate the data of internal CSR reports and monitor the efforts made by the DSV companies to implement policies and targets in practice. Furthermore, Management decided in 2011 to update the Code of Conduct so that it covers all CSR policies of the Group. In that connection, examples of different ethical dilemmas which employees may face in their daily work were D SV co r po r ate so cia l r e spo n sib il it y report 2 0 1 1 – Corpor at e Soc ial ­Responsibilit y at DSV 7 UN Global Compact Human Rights Environment Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. ­approach to environmental challenges Principle 2: Businesses should make sure they are not Principle 8: Businesses should undertake initiatives to complicit in human rights abuses. ­promote greater environmental responsibility. Principle 9: Businesses should encourage the development Labour and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of a­ ssociation and the effective recognition of the right to Anti-Corruption collective bargaining. Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in Principle 4: Businesses should uphold the elimination of all all its forms, including extortion and bribery. forms of forced and compulsory labour. Principle 5: Businesses should uphold the effective ­abolition of child labour. Principle 6: Businesses should uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. D SV co r po r ate so cia l r e spo n sib il it y report 2 0 1 1 – Corpor at e Soc ial ­Responsibilit y at DSV 8 Environment and Climate Improved energy efficiency and reduced carbon emissions of all transport activities through constant focus on cargo volume and route planning optimisation. DSV is a freight forwarding company specialising in transtual transport operations for the Group. Management has port and logistics services. DSV pursues an asset-light therefore set a target implying that the total carbon emisstrategy, which means that the Group only invests in physisions of DSV and its suppliers must be reduced in order to cal transport equipment to a very limited extent. The enviachieve a 15% improvement in the energy efficiency of all ronmental impact of the Group is therefore mainly caused transport activities by 2015 compared with 2010 figures. by the transport activities carried out by our subcontracThe requirement that efforts must be made to reduce cartors. Consequently, a reduction of the environmental imbon emissions has been incorporated into the Supplier Code pact can be achieved mainly through DSV’s dialogue with of Conduct of DSV. and requirements of its subcontractors. DSV receives annual reports on emission data from its However, DSV can also play a part in reducing the envisuppliers of sea, air and road transport services. The data ronmental impact by optimising the cargo volumes carried submitted by the subcontractors show a general improvebetween the different destinations and ensuring optimal ment of 2.2-3.5% and hence lower carbon emissions and utilisation of the available capacity as a means to reduce lower emissions of hazardous substances from carbon the environmental impact per transport unit. For road based fuels. Efficient and improved utilisation of fuel has transport, this objective may also be achieved through an been an area of focus for several years among the supplioptimised planning of routes for the collection and distribuers of DSV, and over the past five years the suppliers of the tion of cargo. Road Division have improved their fuel utilisation by 8% and reduced their carbon emissions correspondingly. Energy efficiency to improve by 15% In addition to the improvements achieved by suppliers, DSV’s policies and targets for the area of environment and DSV has managed to improve its performance within all climate focus on internal issues but are also targeted to a three transport areas and has thereby increased the energy large extent at external suppliers which perform the acefficiency for both road transport, sea and air freight comEnvironment/Climate CSR Policies: CSR Objectives: • DSV is committed to offering sustainable transport and • Subcontractors required to lower their carbon dioxide logistics systems which result in the lowest possible depleemissions with the aim to improve DSV’s energy effition of resources and strain on the environment. Therefore, ciency per transport activity by 15% by 2015 compared the business concept of DSV is constantly being developed with 2010 figures. and improved so that the products and services of the • The Road Division (including its subcontractors) must use Group always reflect our environmental considerations. Euro 5 engine vehicles for at least 50% of all road trans•D  SV will lead an open and constructive dialogue with ports by 2013. authorities, shareholders, customers, suppliers, employ• Automatic energy management systems must be inees, and other stakeholders about the environmental and stalled or screening for potential energy savings carried safety conditions related to the activities of the Group. out in 75% of all DSV buildings by 2015. DSV has a clear conception of its responsibility so that we • 75% of all DSV locations must recycle paper in offices comply with public authority requirements at all times. and paper, plastic and cardboard in terminals and ware•O  ur suppliers are selected on the basis of professional houses by the end of 2012. business parameters, including assessment of their environmental and social responsibility policies. D SV co r po r ate so cia l r e spo nsibilit y rEport 2 0 1 1 – Environm ent and Clim at e 9 pared with 2010. Performance improved by almost 10% locations had implemented such procedures, and the Group for road transport due to a combination of the improved continues the work towards achieving the target in 2012. fuel consumption of subcontractors and the Road DiviWhen DSV builds new terminals, warehouses and office sion’s efforts to optimise the utilisation of available capacity facilities, the Group focuses on establishing energy manin relation to the collection and distribution of cargo. DSV agement systems, sustainable energy solutions and other intends to continue to intensify the efforts to meet the tartechnical solutions to help minimise the energy consumpget of a 15% energy efficiency improvement per transport tion of DSV and thereby reduce the environmental impact. activity. These initiatives, and a mild winter in Europe at the end of 2011, contributed to reduced overall energy consumption Company car emissions may not in the DSV facilities in 2011. exceed 188 g/km DSV has launched various initiatives to reduce the enviCarbon Disclosure Project ronmental impact of the Group’s activities. For example, DSV has for a number of years disclosed information on the Management has adopted guidelines on the procurement Group’s aggregate carbon emissions to the Carbon Discloof cars with the aim to reduce the carbon footprint of the sure Project (CDP). CDP is an organisation which approachGroup’s fleet of company cars. In future, the carbon emises the largest companies in the world and encourages them sions of DSV’s company cars may not exceed 188 g/km. to disclose their carbon emissions and their strategies to reduce those emissions. CDP represents more than 500 50% of the trucks must meet the institutional investors worldwide and uses the reported Euro 5 standard data to assess a number of strategic risks and opportunities Management has also set a target for the Road Division’s related to climate change. By its CDP reports, DSV wants use of trucks that meet the highest emission standard apto visualise the efforts made to reduce the Group’s carbon plicable. According to the target set, at least 50% of the emissions. trucks used by the Road Division (own and subcontractors’ trucks) must have Euro 5 engines by the end of 2012. The trucks owned by DSV already satisfied this requirement in 2011. However, the vast majority of the trucks used by DSV are owned by subcontractors, and a smaller proportion of these trucks were categorised as Euro 5 engine vehicles. Accordingly, 39% of all trucks used by the DSV Group in 2011 were Euro 5 engine vehicles. Waste recycling procedures in 75% of all DSV locations A roof-based solar plant of 6,000 panels For several years, many companies of the DSV Group have has been installed on the DSV Solutions sorted their waste into different recycling categories, such buildings at Ghent, Belgium. The electricity as paper, plastic and cardboard. Management has now set produced by the panels is used for the optargets for these efforts, establishing that at least 75% of all eration of the building, and any surplus elecDSV locations must have implemented waste recycling protricity is distributed to the local power grid. cedures by the end of 2012. At the end of 2011, 62% of all Development in energy efficiency (CO2 g/tonne-km) Development in emission of CO2 (g/km) per transport activity from road transports CO2 g/tonne-km CO2 emissions 1,000 ■ 2009 900 ■ 2010 875 ■ 2011 100 850 825 10 800 775 0 750 Sea Air Road 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 transport transport transport % 1,800 D SV co r po r ate so cia l r e spo nsibilit y rEport 2 0 1 1 – Environm ent and Clim at e 1,500 10 1,200 Business Ethics and Anti-­Corruption Continued focus on CSR in 2012 supported by a Code of Conduct training programme for all managers and establishment of a corporate whistleblower scheme. The policies and targets set by DSV for this area are inWhistleblower scheme in 2012 tended to ensure that all employees of the Group work acTo make sure that any violation of the Code is brought to cording to shared values and guidelines on business ethics. light, Management has decided to establish a whistleblower It is important for DSV to maintain a high level of business scheme enabling all employees to report any situations, ethics in its relations with customers, shareholders, supplievents or circumstances that seem wrong or are direct ers, other partners and public authorities. For that reason violations of the DSV policies and guidelines. The scheme Management has set a target of zero violations of the DSV will be implemented as soon as the required public authorCode of Conduct and has launched various initiatives to folity approvals have been obtained, which will probably be in low up on this target. 2012. Bribery and facilitation payments – DSV has a clear policy DSV wants to support a transparent and fair market and has developed a clear policy that prohibits employees from accepting or offering bribery of any kind. By bribery DSV means any offer or acceptance of a gift, loan, fee, remuneration or any other thing of value to or from another person or entity as an incentive to influence or promote a certain act or omission which would not have been appropriate under normal conditions and in the absence of bribery. DSV supports the abolition of facilitation payments, but understands that it is a practice which is widely used in certain geographical areas and which the employees of DSV may experience in their daily work. Facilitation payments are small additional payments to a public employee to expedite a routine matter, such as the issuance of a permit, visa, etc. DSV appreciates that the abolition of facilitation payments is a complex issue, which also requires a legislative effort. DSV aims to avoid facilitation payments at all times and only use such payments if deemed strictly necessary in a given situation. The DSV Code of Conduct provides examples of the difference between bribery and facilitation payments and guidelines for the employees on the reporting of all facilitaThe DSV Group implements and communition payments. In addition, Management wants to highlight cates the CSR policies and guidelines to its the CSR policies in general through communication and employees in many different ways. training initiatives. The goal is that all managers in DSV have For example, the Danish companies opted completed a DSV Code of Conduct training programme by to communicate the content of the CSR polithe end of 2012. cies and guidelines to their employees at the regular department meetings. D SV co r po r ate so cia l r e spo n sib il it y rEport 2 0 1 1 – Business Et hic s and Ant i-­Corrupt ion 11 Business Ethics and Anti-Corruption CSR Policies: CSR Objectives: DSV wants: • All employees must have received information on the ap• t o make sure that all employees of the Group observe plicable DSV Code of Conduct and procedures by the end general principles of business ethics; of 2012. • to support the work against bribery, facilitation payments, • Number of new cases of violation of the DSV Code of certain types of gifts, entertainment, travel costs, etc.; Conduct must be zero. • t o provide guidance on charitable donations and rules on • All employees at management level must have completed contributions to political parties and NGOs; training in the DSV Code of Conduct by the end of 2012. • t o prohibit staff and companies from engaging in cartel activities and to restrict membership of trade and industry organisations; and • t o avoid conflicts of interest and related-party transactions. D SV co r po r ate so cia l r e spo n sib il it y rEport 2 0 1 1 – Business Et hic s and Ant i-­Corrupt ion 12 Employees and ­Working Environment Safety and health for the key asset of the Group is an important part of the ongoing CSR activities in DSV. The DSV policies and targets for this area are intended The rate of occupational accidents to ensure that all companies meet and comply with both reduced by 10% internationally proclaimed guidelines and national proviThe 2011 figures show an overall decrease of almost 3% in sions on labour rights, etc. DSV considers its employees an the rate of occupational accidents. The overall decrease is essential asset of our organisation and it is crucial for the a result of a pleasant 10% reduction of occupational accisuccess and future of DSV that they experience job satisdents among hourly workers and a steady rate for the salafaction and feel appreciated for their work. ried staff of the Group. The decrease among hourly workers is mainly a result of the efforts made by the Solutions Continuous efforts Division to reduce the number of occupational accidents in to prevent occupational accidents its warehouses, reducing the overall rate of occupational The efforts to prevent occupational injuries are a specific accidents for the Division by 25%. In principle, the Solutions means to measure the progress made by the DSV Group in Division has already met the target set by Management for relation to working environment. In 2010, the rate of occuthis area. However, the overall rate increased in the Air & pational accidents increased relative to the year before, and Sea and Road Divisions, which means that the total rate for Management therefore launched a Group-wide initiative in the Group only dropped slightly. 2011 to focus on the prevention of occupational accidents. Major efforts are therefore required in 2012 to meet Management has also set a target implying that the rate the overall target for this area of a 25% reduction relative of occupational accidents must be reduced by 25% by the to 2010. The Executive Board therefore aims to intensify end of 2012 compared with 2010 and that DSV Group the efforts to reduce the number of occupational accidents companies must calculate and submit separate reports on in the DSV companies. The efforts will mainly focus on the absence due to occupational accidents. sharing of knowledge and practice between the DSV comEmployees and Working Environment CSR Policies: • DSV does not employ children and recognises interna•D SV supports and wishes to comply with internationally tional standards of minimum age for children and that proclaimed human rights. youths should work in different types of employment •D SV recognises and supports equal human rights and is than adults. against discrimination and differential treatment in em• Employees of DSV must receive a letter of confirmation ployment and working conditions, whether based on race of their employment conditions if so required by national or gender, or sexual, religious or political orientation or legislation. ethnical or social background. • The remuneration of DSV employees meets or exceeds •D SV recognises employees’ right to join a union and to statutory or agreed national industry minimum standards. collective bargaining. DSV supports a constructive dia• DSV complies with current national legislation and agreed logue between employer and employee. standards relating to employee working hours. •D SV is against all kinds of forced employment and working conditions. D SV co r po r ate so cia l r e spo n sib il it y rEport 2 0 1 1 – Em ploy ees and W ­ orking Environm ent 13 panies which have a low rate of occupational accidents and Rate of occupational accidents per million working hours the companies and divisions with a relatively high rate. R Satisfied employees 18 As regards employees, 2011 was a relatively stable year 15 ■ 2009 without any major integrations of new enterprises or other 12 ■ 2010 material changes in the Group. This is reflected in the em■ 2011 9 ployee turnover rate, which dropped markedly to 15.6%. Employee turnover for the Group dropped considerably for 6 the second year in a row and is now the lowest rate since 3 2004, when DSV started recording this figure. All divisions 0 of the Group report a considerable improvement in this figGroup Road Air & Sea Solutions ure, both among hourly workers and salaried staff. Employees’ absence due to illness is still low and has remained stable for several years. In 2011, absence due rate of employee turnover to illness dropped slightly for both salaried staff and hourly % workers compared with 2009 and 2010, but slightly more for hourly workers than for salaried staff. Total absence due 60 ■ 2009 to illness was 3.2% for 2011 and is one of the lowest rates 50 ■ 2010 ever recorded in DSV. The rate of absence corresponds to 40 ■ 2011 an average of seven days of absence in a year for every 30 employee of DSV. 20 10 0 The DSV Air & Sea company in South Africa Group Road Air & Sea Solutions takes part in the Broad-Based Black Economic Empowerment (B-BBEE) programme initiated by the South African government with the absence due to illness goal to distribute wealth across as broad a % spectrum of South African society as possible. DSV South Africa has implemented a code 6 ■ 2009 of conduct that provides the framework for 5 ■ 2010 measuring the company’s efforts to support 4 ■ 2011 the programme on a daily basis. Currently, 3 the company’s performance status has been rated at level 4 (1-8), and the company has 2 developed a strategy to further improve this 1 rating. 0 Group Road Air & Sea Solutions Employees and Working Environment ctd. CSR Policies ctd.: CSR Objectives: •T he employees are the most important group of stake• DSV complies with and does not violate internationally holders of DSV. In DSV, a healthy physical and psychoproclaimed human rights. logical working environment should contribute to creating • Subcontractors of the DSV Group are urged to meet the job satisfaction, avoiding work related sickness and prestandards of the DSV CSR Policy. venting accidents at work for all DSV employees. • DSV complies with national legislation on labour stand•A ll DSV managers are responsible for the safety of our ards. employees and, in addition to giving instructions and su• DSV aims to reduce the rate of occupational accidents pervising that this is observed, they must also establish every year and by 25% by the end of 2012 compared an understanding of the necessary safety measures. with 2010 figures. •A ll employees of DSV are responsible for their own safety • Recording of data on absence due to occupational acciwhen performing their work and must therefore comply dents from 2012. with all safety regulations and exercise proper care to contribute to the prevention of accidents. D SV co r po r ate so cia l r e spo n sib il it y rEport 2 0 1 1 – Em ploy ees and W­ orking Environm ent 14 Non-financial highlights of the Group 2009 2010 2011 Key figures Emissions (‘000 tonnes) CO2 emissions Group 3,212 *3,297 3,336 CO2 emissions Container shipping 529 619 587 CO2 emissions Air transport 939 1,154 1,174 CO2 emissions Road transport 1,679 *1,447 1,523 CO2 emissions Buildings 65 77 52 Water (‘000 m3) Total water use 310 317 297 Indicators Rate of employee turnover (%) Group 33.5 22.7 15.6 Salaried staff 39.7 18.8 15.5 Hourly workers 23.6 29.0 15.6 Absence due to illness (%) Group 3.3 3.4 3.2 Salaried staff 2.7 2.9 2.8 Hourly workers 4.3 4.4 3.9 Rate of occupational accidents (per million working hours) Group 7.6 11.3 11.0 Salaried staff 1.3 2.8 2.8 Hourly workers 18.6 25.8 23.2 Energy efficiency (g/tonne-km) CO2 per consignment Container shipping 9.0 9.2 9.0 CO2 per consignment Air transport 775.4 762.0 745.0 CO2 per consignment Road transport 65.8 *82.2 74.1 Quality management standards (%) ISO 14001 33 34 42 ISO 9001 67 71 75 OHSAS 18001 15 15 19 Anti-corruption (%) Employees who have received information about anti-corruption policies and procedures • 85 94 Human rights (%) Employees who have received information about human rights policies and procedures • 80 94 Implementation of CSR Policy (%) DSV entities which have produced a self-declaration of compliance with the CSR Policy of the DSV Group • 78 94 Recycling of paper, cardboard and plastic (%) DSV locations which recycle paper, cardboard and/or plastic waste from offices, terminals and warehouses • • 62 D SV co r po r ate so cia l r e spo n sibil it y report 2 0 1 1 – Non-f inanc ial highlight s of t he Group 15 Accounting policies for non-financial data Emissions Quality management standards CO2 emissions from transport activities are calculated Percentage of DSV enterprises certified according to ISO based on the average fuel utilisation ratios and CO2 emis14001, ISO 9001 or OHSAS 18001. Calculation proporsions reported in respect of trucks owned by DSV and subtionate to the number of staff of the certified enterprises. contractors in connection with the transportation of DSV freight, partly on data from DSV’s own traffic management Anti-corruption and human rights systems, including data on the freight volumes carried to Number of employees of the enterprises that have inand from various destinations. CO2 emissions from buildings formed its staff about the CSR policies and procedures of are calculated based on direct consumption of electricity, DSV that must be followed relative to the total staff of the gas, oil and water at DSV’s own locations. Group. Rate of employee turnover Implementation of CSR Policy Number of employees leaving the Group during the year Number of enterprises that have evaluated whether they relative to the average number of employees calculated on are following the CSR Policy of the DSV Group relative to the basis of monthly surveys of the actual number of emthe total number of Group enterprises. ployees at the end of the month. Recycling of paper, cardboard and plastic Rate of absence Number of DSV locations that have implemented systems Number of days of absence due to illness relative to the for collection of paper, cardboard and/or plastic waste for number of working days during the year adjusted for marecycling relative to the total number of Group locations. ternity/paternity leave, agreed holidays and national public holidays. Absence due to illness is measured on the basis of Comments wage/salary system records. * A review of the 2010 reporting of the Road Division revealed incorrect calculation of the Division’s carbon emisRate of occupational accidents sions. The error affected the total carbon emissions calcuNumber of reported occupational accidents resulting in lated for the Division, and hence also for the Group, as well more than one day of absence per million working hours as various values for the energy efficiency of the Division during the year. and the Group. Comparative figures have been restated accordingly. Energy efficiency Emissions from consignment relative to freight volume and transportation distance. D SV corpo r ate so cia l r e spo n sibil it y rEport 2 0 1 1 – Account ing polic ies f or non-f inanc ial data 16 Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) and content index The Global Reporting Initiative is a non-profit organisation that has produced a set of indicators and guidelines for sustainability reporting. The index indicates the location of information relevant to specific GRI indicators. Information Level of GRI Indicator available at 1) fulfilment 2) Strategy and analysis 1.1 Statement from the CEO CSR p. 3 1.2 Key impacts, risks and opportunities AR pp. 8 35, CSR pp. 6 8 Organisational Profile 2.1 Name of the organisation CSR p. 19 2.2 Primary brands, products, and/or services CSR p. 4 2.3 Operational structure of the organisation AR pp. 16 27 2.4 Location of organisation’s headquarters CSR p. 19 2.5 Number of countries where the organisation operates CSR pp. 4 5 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form AR pp. 28 29 2.7 Markets served AR pp. 2 3 2.8 Scale of the reporting organisation (number of employees, number of operations, net sales, total capitalisation broken down in terms of debt and equity and quantity of products or services provided) AR pp. 10 27 2.9 Significant changes during the reporting period CSR pp. 15 16 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period Report Parameters 3.1 Reporting period CSR p. 6 3.2 Date of most recent previous report CSR p. 6 3.3 Reporting cycle CSR p. 6 3.4 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents CSR p. 19 3.5 Process for defining report content CSR pp. 6 8 3.6 Scope of the report CSR p. 6 3.7 Limitations on the scope of the report CSR p. 6 3.8 Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, leased facilities, outsourced operations etc. CSR p. 6 3.9 Data measurement techniques and the bases of calculations CSR pp. 15 16 3.10 Re-statements of information provided in earlier reports  CSR pp. 15 16 3.11 Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the scope of the report  CSR pp. 15 16 3.12 GRI overview CSR pp. 17 18 D SV cor por ate so cia l r e spo n sib il it y r e port 2 0 1 1 – Global Report ing Init iat ive (GRI) and cont ent inde x 17 Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) and context index (continued) Information Level of GRI Indicator available at 1) fulfilment 2) Governance, Commitments and Engagements 4.1 Governance structure of the organisation AR pp. 31 33, CSR p. 7 4.2 The roles of the chairman of the Board and the CEO AR p. 31, CSR p. 7 4.3 Members of the Board AR pp. 31, 39 4.4 Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to provide recommendations to the Board AR pp. 31 33 4.5 Linkage between compensation for members of the highest governance body, senior managers, and executives AR p. 32 4.6 Processes in place for the Board to ensure conflicts of interest are avoided AR pp. 31 33 4.7 Process for determining the qualifications of the Board members AR p. 31 4.8 Statements of mission or values, codes of conduct, and principles relevant to economic, environmental, and social performance and the status of their implementation CSR pp. 6 8 4.9 Procedures for the Board to overseeing the organisation’s identification and management of economic, environmental, and social performance CSR p. 8 4.10 Processes for evaluating the Board’s own performance, particularly with respect to economic, environmental, and social performance CSR p. 8 4.11 Explanation of whether and how the precautionary approach or principle is addressed CSR pp. 6 8 4.12 Externally developed economic, environmental, and social charters, principles, or other initiatives to which the organisation subscribes or endorses CSR p. 3 4.13 Memberships in associations 4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organisation 4.15 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage CSR pp. 6 8 4.16 Approaches to stakeholder engagement CSR pp. 6 8 4.17 Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement CSR pp. 6 8 Performance Indicators Economic management approach AR pp. 8 9 EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed AR pp. 10 15 EC2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the organisation’s activities due to climate change CDP Environmental management approach CSR pp. 6 14 EN8 Total water withdrawal by source CSR p. 15 EN16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight CSR p. 15 EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and reductions achieved CSR pp. 9 10, 15 EN26 Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of products and services CSR pp. 9 10 Labour Practises management approach CSR pp. 13 14 LA1 Workforce by employment type, employment contract and region CSR p. 5 LA2 Total number and rate of employee turnover by age group, gender and region CSR pp. 14 15 LA7 Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days and absenteeism and number of work-related fatalities CSR pp. 13 15 Human Rights management approach CSR pp. 11 12 HR3 Total hours of employee training on policies and procedures concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations, including the percentage of employees trained CSR p. 5 Society management approach CSR pp. 6 14 SO2 Percentage and total number of business units analysed for risks related to corruption CSR p. 15 SO3 Percentage of employees trained in organisation’s anti-corruption policies and procedures CSR p. 15 1) AR = Annual Report, CSR = CSR report 2011, CDP = Reporting to Carbon Disclosure Project 2011 2) = Full reporting, = Partial reporting, = Started reporting D SV cor por ate so cia l r e spo n sib il it y r e port 2 0 1 1 – Global Report ing Init iat ive (GRI) and cont ent inde x 18 DSV A/S Banemarksvej 58 2605 Broendby Denmark Tel. +45 43 20 30 40 E-mail: csr@dsv.com www.dsv.com CVR No. 58 23 35 28 Published 21 February 2012 Graphic production: meyer & bukdahl as
