COMMONWEALTH INITIATIVE CAMEROON We support the UN Global Compact Our mission  Contribute to the progress and growth of Global Compact Initiative in Cameroon at the local and regional level.  Rooting the global compact into our diverse cultural heritage.  To make easier the progress of companies engaged in the compact with respect to providing a practical means to enhance the ten principles as we will create opportunities for multistakeholder engagement and collective action.  Support, empower and strengthen participants with our local and regional setup to constantly develop and effectively publish a Communication on Progress.  Our running body shall organize and coordinate events/activities as a result produce an activity report annually.  With our team, we shall also provide the Global Compact Office day-to-day issues related to the running of our Global Compact Local Network.  Proactively manage and protect the integrity of the global compact initiative and develop capacity to find solutions to dilemma. The need to revamp the Global Compact impact in Cameroon  Serious short falls in Global Compact Network Governance in Cameroon  A new way of thinking emerged wherein, strategies and ways to tackle corporate responsibility issues in Cameroon had to be addressed by number of associations willing to promote the Global Impact.  A join initiative of shared values and principles has arisen to give a human face to the global market through the Global Compact Initiative in Cameroon.  Calling for new solutions and forms of corporations in the context of rapid globalization.  Bridging the gap between commercial advances and the neglect of human rights, social and environmental issues that has provoked widespread adverse reaction to most political and social in Aims  Advance development to sustainability in Cameroon so as to contribute to the Millennium  Development Goals of the UN  Instill a higher level of corporate citizenship in Cameroon  Contribute in shaping, modernizing the economy of Cameroon  To meet up with global challenges
