Global Compact Progress Report 2011 Making a difference Global Compact Progress Report 2011 Global Compact is an initiative of UN Secretary-General Kofi Annan, which was launched in January 1999. Global Compact is a call to business world-wide to help build the social and environmental framework to ensure the open and free markets and to ensure that people everywhere have a chance to share the benefits of the new global economy. The Global Compact encompasses 10 principles from interna¬tional declarations on human rights, labour standards, environ¬ment and anti-corruption. Grontmij has committed to uphold the Global Compact and the 10 principles by participating in the initiative, and as part of this commitment to implement the principles as part of its strategy, culture and day-to-day opera¬tions. Our progress in this process is reported in the following Communication on Progress 2011. Global Compact Progress Report 2011 2 CEO statement I am pleased to confirm that Grontmij supports the ten principles of the Global Compact in respect to human rights, labour rights, the protection of the environment and anti-corruption. With this statement, we express our intent to support and advance those principles within our sphere of influence. We commit to making the Global Compact and its principles part of the strategy, culture and day-to-day operations of our company and undertake to make a clear statement of this commitment both to our employees, partners, clients and to the public. We support public accountability and transparency and will report on progress made in a public manner. Michiel Jaski CEO Grontmij Global Compact Progress Report 2011 3 Ten principles Principle no. Global compact Principle Process of Implementation 1 Business should support and respect the In 2010 a comprehensive Policy for Human Rights and Equal Opportunities was implemented across Grontmij. This policy covers protection of internationally proclaimed all of the ten principles and reinforces our commitment to upholding them. human rights A compliance reporting process covering risk management was introduced in February 2010. Among the key risks considered are those relating to human rights, labour protection, environmental management and anti corrupt practices. View our CSR profile and report for 2011 Since January 2008 as part of the GRI-based CSR reporting Grontmij has conducted a monitoring process for non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning health and safety, labour practices, product standards, environmental regulatory compliance and anti-corruption. For the period January 2008 to December 2011 Grontmij has reported 1 such incident (GRI indicator PR2). 2 Business should ensure that they are not As part of the GRI-based CSR reporting for 2011 a conformity monitoring process for non-discrimination was undertaken for a complicit in human right abuses. fourth year. In the period January 2009 to December 2011 Grontmij reported that no incidents had occurred (GRI indicator HR4). View our GRI disclosure View our Human rights policy statement 3 Business should uphold the freedom of Grontmij upholds such a policy for its employees. In 2009 the policy was included in the overall Policy for Human Rights and association and the effective recognition of Equal Opportunities. the right to collective bargaining. View our management approach to human rights 4 Business should support the elimination of all All employees have individual contracts stating terms and conditions of service and the notice of leave. Our employment forms of forced and compulsory labour. policies forbid the use of all forms of forced and compulsory labour. Our policies for the selection of sub-contractors and suppliers similarly forbid the use of forced or compulsory labour in our supply chain. View our management approach to human rights 5 Business should support the effective Grontmij fully supports the policy of abolishing child labour. From 2009, a supporting statement for the abolition of child labour abolition of child labour. was included in the Policy for Human Rights and Equal Opportunities mentioned above. View our management approach to human rights 6 Business should support the elimination of Grontmij has implemented a recruitment policy securing equal employment opportunities based solely upon an assessment of discrimination in respect of employment and relevant qualifications. Our policies for ensuring equality of opportunity expressly commit us to working towards re elimination occupation. of al forms of discrimination. View our management approach to human rights Global Compact Progress Report 2011 4 Principle no. Global compact Principle Process of Implementation 7 Business should support a precautionary In 2008 we implemented a strategy for managing of our operations and delivering our consulting services with the goal of approach to environmental challenges addressing climate change. The first step in this strategy was instigate a programme to monitor and measure our own environmental footprint. The first results of this were published in our annual CR report in May 2008. Our fourth annual CR report has also now been published. We have used the standards of the Global Reporting Initiative to guide these publications. View our CR profile and report for 2011 The third stage of our programme is to develop action plans for our published targets covering our environmental footprints in: • CO2 • energy • transport • water • waste We have also instigated a programme of “sustainability by design” whereby we will reduce the environmental footprint and increase the sustainability of the project that we deliver to our clients. 8 Business should undertake initiatives to Grontmij undertakes a number of initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. promote greater environmental responsibility. Grontmij has in place a comprehensive integrated management system (IMS) that incorporates environmental management. These systems are accredited to ISO 14001 in all countries. Intrinsic aspects of our EMS include: • goal setting and performance management – currently we set environmental management goals at a regional level • policy – annual statements of our overall commitment to sustainable development • organisational responsibility – organisational charts and statements of our environmental management structures • training and awareness – procedures for the training and development of all staff in environmental awareness • monitoring and follow-up procedures are in place for the monitoring of learning from all environmental incidents Examples of initiatives launched in 2011 are described throughout our group annual report. View our Group profile and report for 20101 9 Business should encourage the development Grontmij is making a widespread effort to encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. and diffusion of environmentally friendly Some examples our initiatives are mentioned below. technologies. Grontmij is undertaking a major contract to create a modern and environmentally sound waste management system in BosniaHerzegovina. The project is part of the aid-financed development cooperation that Sweden has with Bosnia-Herzegovina in order to reduce the environmental and health risks in the country with the aim of eventually qualifying for EU membership. As a group-wide project, this is another example of how our cross-border collaboration strengthens our ability to win complex international assignments. Read more... Grontmij is involved in a study into the generation of electricity using ultra deep geothermal energy from a depth of between six and ten kilometres. This form of green electricity is expected to be cheap and in the future could supply 30 to 50 percent of the Netherlands’ electricity requirements. Calculations have shown that in terms of cost price, electricity generated from ultra deep geothermal energy can compete with electricity generated from coal. Geothermal energy is a clean power source which, unlike wind and solar energy, is available irrespective of wind or light conditions. Read more … Global Compact Progress Report 2011 5 Principle no. Global compact Principle Process of Implementation Grontmij is involved in the reducing the high cost of phosphorus removal from wastewate. The Pearl® technology combines 90% phosphorus removal with phosphorus recovery to produce a high-value fertilizer. The Pearl® technology is a cost-effective solution for phosphorus removal and contributes to sustainable phosphorus recycling. The Pearl® technology can be very well applied in wastewater treatment plants running enhanced biological phosphorus removal along with a digester and dewatering facilities. In the process, phosphate and nitrogen are converted to struvite mineral pellets of 99.9% purity called Crystal Green® fertilizer. The Pearl® process fully replaces chemical phosphorus removal and increases nitrogen removal capacity of the wastewater treatment plant, generating substantial cost savings and increased plant performance. Read more … OSMOS is a monitoring system that offers an ideal solution for charting out the quality changes of structures and buildings. It is a highly accurate system, based on continuous measurement. The changes in the quality of structures are thereby closely monitored. Grontmij are sub-licensees for OSMOS in the Netherlands. OSMOS is an acronym for ‘Optical Strand MOnitoring System’. The system was originally developed 20 years ago and today there are more than 3,000 references worldwide, including the Eiffel Tower in Paris, dams in Japan and the Channel Tunnel linking Calais and Dover. All in all, OSMOS is the world market leader in the field of permanent monitoring. Read more… 10 Business should work against corruption in all A business integrity code of conduct is implemented across Grontmij. This code allows for regional enhancement and within this its forms, including extortion and bribery. in Denmark we have implemented a business integrity management system for day-to-day operations. The system consists of a policy, a code of conduct, a number of detailed in-structions and a whistle blower function. All new employees participate in business integrity awareness training within 3 months from hire. Since January 2008 as part of the GRI-based CSR reporting Grontmij has conducted a monitoring process for non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning anti-corruption. For the period January 2008 to December 2011 Grontmij has reported no incidents (GRI indicator SO4). View our CR profile and report for 2011 Global Compact Progress Report 2011 6 www.grontmij.com Grontmij An overview of all our locations, visit www.grontmij.com
