2011 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GRI 2.1, 2.2, 2.4, 2.5, 2.6, 2.7, 2.8, 2.9 The Company Profile ALFA comprises five business groups: Alpek (petroALFA, S.A.B. de C.V. was founded in Monchemicals), Nemak (high-tech aluminum auto comterrey, Mexico in 1974, when a group of ponents), Sigma (refrigerated food), Alestra (inforentrepreneurs decided to integrate their mation technologies and telecommunications), and interests in various businesses in a sinNewpek (natural gas and hydrocarbons). gle company. However, ALFA origins go back to the ending of the XIX century, ALFA is the world’s leading manufacturer of aluwhen the first industries were estabminum engine heads and blocks, and one of the lished in the north of Mexico. Its headworld’s largest producers of PTA and PET. In adquarters are located in Gómez Morín 1111 dition, it leads the Mexican market in petrochemisur, Col. Carrizalejo, San Pedro, Garza cals such as polypropylene, EPS and caprolactam. García, N.L., Mexico. It is leader in the North American processed meats market, as well as in value-added telecom services ALFA is a Mexican public company, and for the enterprise segment in Mexico. consequently its articles of associations are enshrined to the Mexican laws and In 2011, ALFA reported revenues of Ps. 182,763 regulations governing the Mexican secumillion (U.S. $14.7 billion), and EBITDA of Ps. rities market. $21,166 million (U.S. $1.7 billion). Currently, ALFA has manufacturing operations in 17 countries and MARKETS SERVED employs 57,000 people. ALFA’s shares are quoted ALFA products serve the following induson the Mexican Stock Exchange and on Latibex, tries: foods and beverages, automotive, the market for Latin American shares of the Madrid packaging, textiles, construction, furniStock Exchange. ture, telecommunications and energy, mainly. Its principal markets are located in Mexico, U.S., Germany and Brazil. Contents Inside Front Flap The Company 01 2011 Highlights 02 ALFA, Presence and Business 04 Corporate Structure 05 2011 Financial Highlights 06 Message from the Chairman of the Board and the President 08 Our Vision of Sustainability 12 ALFA’s Philosophy 13 Corporate Governance and Business Ethics 16 Our Employees 24 Our Communities 34 Our Environment 42 Sustainability without Borders 44 About this Report 46 Principles of the United Nations Global Compact 47 Certifications and Awards 49 GRI Index 2011 Highlights 12 plants established records for one or more years without lost-time injuries. 01 SR alfa 1.86 million 4.4 10 x 6GJ man-hours of training in energy savings, 7% for employees in more than in 2010. 3,545 courses. Avoided emissions of More than 110 8.9million education, health and tonnes of CO2 thanks to social assistance the energy saving and institutions supported. recycling programs. 293,000 Over the past 11 years, CO2 emissions have been people visited the ALFA Planetarium, including reduced by 34% even though production 82,000 scholars. grew by 75%. 02 RS SR alfa GRI 2.2, 2.3, 2.5, 2.8 ALFA, Presence and Businesses One of the world’s largest producers of PTA and The world’s leading manufacturer of high-tech PET. It is the only producer of polypropylene in aluminum auto components. Mexico. It operates the largest expandable polystyrene site in America. • Main products: Aluminum heads and blocks for gas and diesel engines, and transmission • Main products: PTA, PET, polypropylene, EPS, parts. caprolactam, ammonium sulphate, urethanes, • Plants: 28 in 13 countries. glycols, polyester fibers and nylon polymer. • Capacity: 43 equivalent heads per year. • Main brands: Laser, Melinar, Hydropur Fibers, • Employees: 18,004. Delcron, Dacron, Styropor, Hydrotec, Profax, Valtec, IntegRex y Mel-Tek. For more information on Nemak, please visit: • Plants: 20 in 3 countries. http://www.nemak.com • Capacity: 6.5 million tonnes per year. • Employees: 4,502. 03 SR alfa The leader company of the A leading company in the informaCompany in start-up processed meats market in North tion technology and telecommuniphase dedicated to America and of cheese market in cation services for the enterprise the exploration and Mexico. segment in Mexico. exploitation of natural • Main products: Processed meats, gas and hydrocarbon • Main services: Data Transmission, resources. cheese, yogurt and prepared meals. Data Center Hosting, Services In • Main brands: FUD, San Rafael, Chithe Cloud, Information Security, • Main products: mex, Bar-S, Iberomex, Tangamanga, Managed Services, Consulting, Natural gas and San Antonio, Zar, Chen, Braedt, La Vertical Applications for specific hydrocarbons. Villita, Chalet, Yoplait, Guten, Sosúa, industries, among others. Checo and Norteñita. • Main brands: Alestra and Master • Plants: 34 and 135 distribution Net. centers in 9 countries. • Presence: 200 cities in Mexico. • Capacity: 1.25 million tonnes per year. • Employees: 1,669. • Employees: 29,226. For more information on Alestra, For more information on Sigma, please visit: please visit: http://www.alestra.com.mx http://www.sigma-alimentos.com GRI 2.3 ALFA Corporate Structure The company 100% has four staff areas: 04 • Development 92.5% • Legal and SR alfa Corporate Affairs 100% • Finance • Human Capital 100% 100% *ALFA’s ownership percentage GRI 3.8 ALFA’S JOINT VENTURES WITH INTERNATIONAL COMPANIES SUBSIDIARY ALFA SHARE PARTNER SHARE Polioles 51% BASF 49% Indelpro 51% Basell 49% Temex 91.5% BP 8.5% Nemak 92.5% Ford 7.5% Terza 51% Shaw Industries 49% GRI EC4 In 2011, ALFA did not receive any kind of financial support from governments, except for minor tax incentives for technology development projects. It is important to point out that ALFA has no joint shareholding agreements with any government whatsoever. GRI 2.8, EC1 2011 Financial Highlights FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS 2010 2011 Net Sales (U.S. $ million) 10,733 14,728 Operating Income (U.S. $ million) 850 1,195 Share Value (Mexican pesos) 124.40 152.00 Majority Net Income (U.S. $ million) 392 429 EBITDA (U.S. $ million)(1) 1,260 1, 706 Direct Economic Value (U.S. $ million) (2) 10,794 14,740 05 Distributed Economic Value (U.S. $ million) (3) 10,146 13,608 SR alfa Retained Economic Value (U.S. $ million) (4) 648 1,132 (1) EBITDA = Operating income + depreciation and amortization. (2) DEVC = Net sales + financial income + sales of assets. (3) DEV = Sales costs + salaries + social benefits to employees + other expenses + taxes payments + dividends + interests payments + investments in the community. (4) REV = Direct economic value distributed economic value. NUMBERS Direct jobs 57,000 CAPEX U.S. $1,365 million Taxes Paid U.S. $390 million Payments to Suppliers U.S. $306 million Total Assets U.S. $9,912 million REVENUE CONTRIBUTION 3% 3% 1% Alpek 25% Alpek 22% Nemak Nemak Sigma Sigma Alestra 2010 2011 Alestra Newpek 45% 24% 50% 27% *In 2011 Newpek was consolidated as a new Alpek independent company. GRI 1.1, 1.2, 2.9, 3.1, 3.2 Message from the Chairman of the Board and the President 06 SR alfa contribute to their good health through education and active life campaigns. Unfortunately, this year there was a slight increase in our accidents and frequency rates, which encourages us to continue improving on ARMANDO GARZA SADA ALVARO FERNANDEZ GARZA this topic. In our involvement Chairman of the Board President with the community, we provided support to educational instiWe are delighted to present our on efficiency and productivity tutions at all levels, refocusing eighth Sustainability Report, the criteria, to meet a suitable perour Foundation mission and exsecond under the Global Reporformance for our shareholders’ tending its coverage. Regarding ting Initiative (GRI G3) methodoinvestments. the environment, we continued logy. This document is a summary • Providing our employees with to strive improving on our opeof the most relevant actions, adworthy and competitively paid rative performance, reduce enervances and initiatives carried out jobs, as well as a safe, healthy, gy consumption and emissions, in 2011, over the three axis on participatory and inclusive workand to increase the use of recywhich we have been working sining environment. cled raw materials. ce 1974: our employees, communi• Enhancing education at all levty and environment. els, especially on the least fortuWe are also working on enhancnate communities. ing the transparency of our acIn line with a tradition that ex• Running our facilities with retions on sustainability matters. In tends for 37 years, in 2011 we consponsibility, in order to minimize recognition to this, our compatinued to fulfill our commitment the impact of their processes on ny’s shares were included in the to generate economic value, and the environment. new Sustainability Index of the at the same time, contributing Mexican Stock Exchange, which to our employees and our host In 2011 we achieved important includes the listed Mexican comcommunities development. goals, which are detailed in this panies with the best practices on report. In short, we worked on sustainability and transparency. We put this commitment into industrial safety, development practice through four fronts: and training of our employees From a financial and opera• Operating our companies based and implemented actions to tive standpoint, in 2011 we 07 SR We believe alfa achieved very favorable results. We increased our revenues and that to continue improving our performance on this matter, we creEBITDA. In addition, we continued to expand our businesses, operate with a ated in 2011 a corporate office in charge of such topic. The target both through acquisitions as well as direct investments on fixed focus on sustainable in the short and medium term of the new Vice-Presidency of assets. These actions allowed development, is an Innovation and Sustainability, is us to strengthen our leadership to establish a sustainable stratposition in the relevant markets. essential requirement egy at ALFA, for all business Our achievements this year are units, to make all of our plants even more commendable if we to achieve profitable and processes meet international take into account the difficult business environment, particugrowth”. standards. With this, we strive to turn ALFA’s business model into larly on the second half of the a more sustainable one in the year, and are due mainly to the long term. effort and commitment of our employees to the company. The We know that constant innoWe are convinced that the inconstant change on the condivation faces challenges, and for vestment on social responsibility tions beyond our control that afALFA, environmental ones are produces benefits for the commufect us directly, such as climate the most outstanding. First, we nity, and consequently, for ALFA. change or stricter demands of face the optimum handling of Moreover we will identify the international standards, have energy and reduction of emissions business opportunities that are been a driver to keep us workresulting from our operations, in generated from working under a ing harder. Under this focus, in which we have been working on socially responsible approach. 2011 we acquired three PET and since 2006. Second is the use of PTA plants in the U.S., we built an recycled materials, which is inIn 2012, we will continue to inauto component facility in India, creased year after year. crease our efforts on the sustainand bought AT&T’s 49% share in ability area. That is our tradition Alestra in Mexico. In addition, we We believe that to operate with and commitment. accelerated the growth of our a focus on sustainable developnatural gas and hydrocarbons ment, is an essential requirement San Pedro Garza García, N.L., business. to achieve profitable growth. To México, January 31st, 2012. ARMANDO GARZA SADA ALVARO FERNANDEZ GARZA Chairman of the Board President GRI 1.2 Our Vision of Sustainability l ta men on ic vir om En ALFA has maintained a great traon dition in the sustainability area, which goes back to the comEc panies from those it emerged, pioneers in Mexico in providing l health services, training and saSocia ving plans for their employees. To date, this philosophy remains 08 as the foundation for the comBusiness pany growth. SR alfa Strategy / For ALFA, to execute its operaSustainability tions under a sustainable development scheme is one of the main factors for business success. Our efforts on sustainability Through such actions, it seeks a matters are based on balance between productive, sothree pillars: cial and environmental elements. In addition to generate economic • ECONOMIC WELFARE value, ALFA seeks to promote its Attractive business performance, growth and employees and communities’ dedevelopment opportunities for employees. velopment and welfare, as well as to operate in harmony with nature. • COMMUNITY Company’s impact and proactive involvement in For the company, sustainabilcommunity projects. ity comes from generating good economic results, in order to •ENVIRONMENT meet its employees, shareholdEmissions reduction, energy and water consumption ers, customers, suppliers, comper tonne. munities and authorities’ needs, while operating with a profound respect for the environment. of even more sustainable prodes cyclical nature, their margins The most significant impacts on ucts. The company achieved an volatility, and the risk of lower sustainability matters that ALFA important improvement on these availability and/or greater costs currently faces are those related topics throughout 2011. on raw materials. to industrial safety (impact on its employees), emissions on air In addition, it seeks to leverTo counteract this, ALFA has esand ground (community) and age on the opportunities resulttablished a strategy for continuproduct life-cycle (community and ing from the current business ous growth on relevant markets. environment). and environment atmosphere, It focuses on less cyclic indussuch as continue to optimize tries to boost products and valTo counteract this, ALFA is energy, water and raw materials ue added services development, strengthening its lost-time acciconsumption, as well as sharing to reach a greater geographical dents rate programs, reducing wasustainability projects among its diversification and seek for globter and carbon footprints derived companies. al supply sources. from its processes and increasing plastics and aluminum recycling, From a financial standpoint, ALFA is a company truly comas well as the energy efficiency ALFA also faces other challengmitted with the innovation and projects and the manufacturing es, such as some of its businessdevelopment of sustainable and review of policies aligned to its strategy and sustainability programs. All this is carried out always complying with local and international standards and laws to benefit and fulfill ALFA’s stakeholders expectations. Throughout 2011, ALFA worked on the establishment of the Innovation and Sustainability VicePresidency on a corporate level, which target is to generate guidelines and goals under a joint sustainability vision applied to each business unit, which, because of their nature, have been separately committed to different causes on their own. Even so, they all share ALFA’s social vision and converge products: in Alpek, by producand Newpek, by exploring and on the same results. ing lighter and more resistant exploiting new energy sources. 09 plastics; Nemak, by manufacturThe main goal of this unified modSR alfa ing autocomponents that help Year after year, ALFA increases el is to turn ALFA into a company its customers build more enits efforts on sustainability matters, with an Integral Environmental ergy efficient cars; Sigma, with supported by a greater superviCare program and replicate this healthier foods and lighter packsion from the Board, a regular action in every business unit. It ages; Alestra, providing services evaluation of the business stratexpects to have the first tangible that improve communication egy and adapting to new circumoutcomes throughout 2012. and information management; stances, as well as the issuance GRI 4.14, 4.15, 4.16 Stakeholders Customers Shareholders ALFA promotes a relationship of trust with all its stakeholders, convinced that is the only way to Government Community foster revival development. In 2011, ALFA launched the Sustainability Committee with the participation of representatives of all business units. Also, in 2010 ALFA carried out Employees Suppliers a process of redefinition of its Mission, Vision and Values. The review of every business unit’s stakeholders and those generic for the whole group was also made and approved, resulting in The Sustainability Committee stakeholders to develop plans the shown graphic as the official meets at least twice a year to reand strategies for implementaones, in alignment to the new view results, dialogue, commution on the short, medium and business dynamic and times. nication and accountability with long term. GRI 4.14, 4.15, 4.16, 4.17 Communication and Dialogue ALFA promotes aperture and feedback that ALFA receives from tate this communication, several transparency towards those orany of its stakeholders, allows it to channels exists: ganizations and authorities it indetect new opportunity areas to teracts with. The information and improve its performance. To faciliCOMMUNICATION AND DIALOGUE SHAREHOLDERS CUSTOMERS EMPLOYEES SUPPLIERS COMMUNITIES PERIODICITY The Annual Shareholder’s meeting ANNUAL Investors Relations PERMANENT 10 Transparency SR Mailbox PERMANENT alfa Dialogue with Neighbors PERMANENT Working Environment ANNUAL Focus Groups PERMANENT Internet, Facebook and Twitter PERMANENT Sigma Escucha ANNUAL In 2011, the main concerns expressed through these channels were the following: DIALOGUE RESULTS STAKEHOLDERS CONCERN Shareholders Atractive return on investment. Competitive business portfolio with growth potential. Customers and More efficient, innovative and price competitive products and services. Consumers Healthier products (Sigma). Employees Development opportunities. Competitive compensation. Communities Employment opportunities. Emmisions reduction. Suppliers Support for their development. These concerns are analyzed program, in which they had the alike; however, the most recent and brought into the strateopportunity of listening first is the demand for healthier prodgic planning of the company in hand opinions and concerns of ucts. This report shows the acthe corresponding area. As an the community, and to develop tions ALFA’s been taking on the example, this year Sigma had plans on them. subject, through its subsidiary its first face to face feedback Sigma. session with its stakeholders For years, the concerns of through the “Sigma Escucha” ALFA’s stakeholders have been GRI SO2, SO4, HR3, HR8, HR9 Transparency Mailbox One of the channels available for all of ALFA’s stakeholders is the Transparency Mailbox. Through this mechanism, ALFA receives concerns, demands or complaints in relation to its companies’ operations. This Mailbox is available 24/7, via telephone or email. It operates in nine languagEver since 2006, ALFA has been es in the 17 countries in which suscribed to the United Nations ALFA has productive facilities. Comments are gathered by the Global Compact. internal audit and human capital departments, who analyze each 11 case and take the required acSR alfa GRI PR2, PR3, PR4, PR6, PR7, PR8, PR9 tions to solve any specific situty that compares the company ation. All ALFA employees have RESPONSIBLE MARKETING against its direct competition. In access to this channel. In 2011, ALFA assumes complete responthe Code of Ethics, there is a spe302 reports were received via sibility over its actions concerncial section about marketing and the Transparency Mailbox, and ing the making of foodstuffs by sales, and the commitment of the each one had a strict follow-up its subsidiary Sigma, and over company to respect the costumand resolution procedure. the design and implementation er and speak truthfully in their of marketing campaigns. A 100% marketing and sales arguments. Sigma operates a Call Center of the company’s products labels where it listens and provides atand packages, provide the conThe marketing implemented on tention to its customers and consumer with all the information the other ALFA business units sumers. In 2011 it received more required by the existing laws of does not require this kind of dethan 340,000 phone calls, which each country in which it opertails, for their products are for inwere attended with a satisfacates, as well as its correct handustrial use. tion rate of 98%. dling and disposal, specially on those that might cause social or ALFA companies do not manuAll employees of the securienvironmental impacts. facture products prohibited, nor ty areas in ALFA have received any that may cause controversy proper training in human rights Sigma adheres to the Food among its stakeholders or public subjects covered by the Global and Non-alcoholic Beverages opinion. Compact. Marketing Self-regulation Code, aimed to children, and the As a result of these practices, ALFA procures its more signifiCONMEXICO Initiative, which proin 2011 ALFA had no incidents or cant suppliers and contractors motes front labeling for food prodfines derived from the non-comto be aware of and also comucts, hoping it leads to a greater pliance of government regulaplying with the United Nations nutrition culture. Sigma also comtions on the matter. Global Compact principles. plies with the National Agreement for Food Safety: Strategy for In 2011, the Federal Data ALFA has no facilities located fighting against obesity and overProtection Act was published in on indigenous communities, but weight in Mexico, because this disMexico. ALFA has implemented it is important to mention that ease has become a public health actions for its thorough fulfillthanks to the measures taken problem in this country. ment in every global operation, regarding of respect to human strengthening the already existrights, there is no record of any Alestra has an evaluation and ing controls over this matter. kind of violation to the indigecostumer’s satisfaction system nous people’s rights with whom towards the marketing of their As a result, in 2011 there were ALFA could have any commuservices, applied by quarterly no substancial fines, complaints nity and/or working relationship. surveys. There is also an annual or incidents regarding this topic survey managed by a third parin ALFA. GRI 4.6, 4.8 ALFA’s Philosophy ALFA has established a framework that guides its way of being and acting in the declaration of its Mission, Vision and Values. Based on that plan, it develops its labor, trade, social and financial relationships. MISSION VALUES To become a source of pride for our workers and shareholders; to exceed our stakeholdIntegrity Our actions are governed ers’ expectations through by our commitment to ethical 12 conduct and social SR alfa leadership, innovation and long-term responsibility. exceptional performance. Respect and Empathy We consider diversity as a VISION strength. We seek to incorporate individuals with different Commitments with our stakeholders: backgrounds and experiences. Shareholders: To achieve outstanding longWe aspire to promote a work environment that promotes term value creation through profitable trust and cooperation. growth, continuous portfolio optimization Results Oriented and by carefully investing in new business We are committed to value creation and to the contiopportunities. nuous improvement of our businesses. All our employees Employees: To be a great place to work. To embody a personal attract and develop the best talent, motivacommitment towards improving the company’s ting them to achieve their full potential. performance. Customers: To exceed their expectations with Innovation and superior experiences and innovative offerings. Entrepreneurial Approach Encourage and reward innoSuppliers: To build long lasting mutually vation and development of new business opportunities. beneficial relationships. Community: To promote safe and sustainable Focus on Clients Dedicated to exceeding our operations. To contribute to the development clients’ needs. of our communities. ALFA companies, such as These Codes are available on the date. On a corporate level, ALFA Sigma and Alestra, have a Code Internet, Intranet, and training is in the process of making a Code of Ethics which are applied on and communication permanent of Ethics applicable to every busidaily operations and are based campaigns. 90% of Sigma emness unit, which is scheduled to on group corporate Values. ployees have signed this Code to be ready by 2013. GRI 4.1, 4.2, 4.3, 4.4, 4.5, 4.6, 4.7, 4.9. 4.10, 4.11, 4.17 Corporate Governance and Business Ethics Since its foundation, ALFA has maintained a solid structure of Corporate Governance, something that has contributed to its development and long-term viability. The company’s corALFA has maintained a solid structure of 13 porate governance pillars are based on the Mexican regulaCorporate Governance, something that has SR alfa tion on the matter. contributed to its development and viability. The company faithfully complies, in time and manner, with demic background, professionalThe Chairman of the Board himall the information disclosure ism, business careers and adherself does not occupy an operating requirements and every other ence to ALFA values. For more position in the structure of the obligation established by the information about the directors, company. Mexican Stock Exchange (BMV). please visit: www.alfa.com.mx. Plus, ALFA adheres substanAll of the directors participate at tially to Mexico’s Code of Best least in one of these Committees. Corporate Practices. The Audit and Corporate Practices Committees are formed by indeFurthermore, it has instruments pendent members only. to identify and handle possible risks (economic, labor, environEvery Committee is headed by an mental and community) to which independent member and meet its operations are exposed to. Tools are revised and actualized Board of twice a year to resolve matters within their sphere of competence. periodically to adequate them to Directors a changing business environment. The Audit Committee is responIn order to carry out its funcsible for studying and issuing BOARD OF DIRECTORS tions correctly, three Comrecommendations to the Board The Board of Directors of ALFA mittees give support to the on matters such as the selecdefines the vision, the middle Board of Directors: tion and determination of fees to and long term strategy, and the the external auditor and internal criteria and guidelines followed control, coordinating with the inA) Audit by ALFA, including sustainabilternal audit area of the company, ity issues. It also supervises and studying accounting policies and approves the performance of top accounting information, among management, it examines and others. approves budgets, investments, and major divestitures, as well as companies’ results. B) Corporate Practices ALFA has internal control systems, and their guidelines are submitted to the Audit Committee to The Board has 12 proprietary receive their opinion. In addition, members, who have no alternates. Nine of them are indepenC) Planning and Finance the external audit firm validates the effectiveness of the internal dent directors. Each director was control system and reports on it. elected on the basis of his acaThe Corporate Practices Committee is responsible for issuing recommendations to the Board in matters such as hiring conditions of senior executives, the criteria to determine their compensation, their retirement and separation conditions, among others. The Planning and Finance Committee is responsible for evaluating and issuing recommendations to the Board on matters such as: feasibility of investments, the company’s strategic positioning, financial policies, risk management and treasury, as well as review investment projects, among others. The Senior Vice President of 14 Human Capital and the Audit SR Vice President, along with the alfa Corporate Practices and Audit Committees, are in charge of observing the ethical performance of the members of the company. The compensation of the members is determined based on standard practices for compaBoard of Directors relies on the Some of the concerns expressed nies of similar size and industry in appointed committees. by shareholders in 2011 are: Mexico. • To obtain an attractive return ALFA adheres to international on their investment. The President of ALFA and standards on environmental as• To have a competitive business the Human Capital Senior Vicepects, such as ISO 14000, and on portfolio, in attractive and susPresident, are in charge of exsocial aspects standards, such tainable industries with growth pressing the employees’ conas the United Nations Global potential in the long run. cerns towards the company and Compact. • To fully comply with the comvice versa. pany’s obligations before the GRI 4.4, 4.17 proper authorities. The performance evaluation ALFA encourages an open and system for the Board of Directors permanent dialogue between GRI SO2, SO3, SO4, SO6, SO8 is based on measuring aspects the Board and both majority CONFLICTS OF INTEREST such as the attendance to meetand minority shareholders. This ALFA has a Conflicts of Interest ings, the committees to which task is made through several policy for the Board Members as each member belongs to, particichannels: well as for its employees, which pation on the deliberations and seeks to promote a complete the effectiveness of the strategic • The Corporate Communication transparency on the company’s decisions taken by the directors. Vice-President provides inforactivities. mation and attention to shareOther company officers and exholders, as well as informing the This policy establishes that ecutives have both fixed and variBoard about the company-relatthose Board members that might able compensation plans, with the ed concerns these might have. be facing a conflict of interest, latter being calculated based on • The Annual Shareholders Meetmust inform the other members established targets accomplished ing, where they may express of such situation, and abstain and overall company results of their doubts and points of view from participating in the discusconduct and expected behavior, directly to the Board. sion and of exercising their vote as well as the companies results. • The Transparency Mailbox, avaiin the Board meetings. lable for shareholders and any To supervise the economic, other external public. Policy for employees establishenvironmental and social peres that they must avoid any situaformance of the company, the tion in which their interests differ from the company’s. Employees levels of the organization. It has By policy, ALFA does not parthat have interests with supplitrained a 100% of its employees in ticipate nor collaborate in politiers, and/or actual or potential every business unit, on matters of cal campaigns. It neither makes clients, must inform their immecorruption. In 2011 there were no any cash or in kind donations diate bosses about it. sanctions on acts of corruption to support a political party or registered in any of ALFA compacandidate, nor executes politiPlus, ALFA promotes responnies. Therefore there was no need cal lobbying activities among its sibility and honesty values at all of any legal action on ALFA’s part. employees. GRI 4.13, SO5, SO7, SO8 INVOLVEMENT IN BUSINESS CHAMBERS AND INSTITUTIONS In order to promote a free enterprising philosophy, to be associated with companies with the same objectives, to exchange successful experiences and share common issues, to encourage the development of communities and disseminate a business culture, ALFA participates in about 80 business chambers at a global level. Its involvement goes from being a member of the governing bodies, specific committees or associates. Main chambers and institutions to which ALFA belongs: 15 SR • Mexican Council of • National Chemical alfa Industry Association (ANIQ) Businessmen (CMHN) • Business Coordination • National Chamber of Milk Council (CCE) Producers (CANILEC) • Confederation of Industrial • Mexican Council of the Consumer Industry Chambers (CONCAMIN) (CONMÉXICO) • Mexican Employers’ •Mexican Council of Meat (COMECARNE) Confederation (COPARMEX) • Commission for the Study • National Chamber of of the Private Sector for Manufacturing Industry Sustainable Development (CANACINTRA) (CESPEDES) • Chamber of Manufacturing • National Council of Textile Industry of Nuevo León Organizations (NCTO) (CAINTRA) • American Fiber • Mexican Business Council for Manufacturers Association Foreign Trade, Investment and (AFMA) Technology (COMCE) • Agro Cluster of Nuevo León • Civic Council of Nuevo León Institutions (CCINLAC) • Mexican Institute of Financial Executives (IMEF) Through these business and and following the highest ethical tions over monopolistic or against commerce chambers and instistandards. free enterprising practices. tutions, ALFA contributes to the development of public policies Thanks to such respectful and on issues that might affect its optransparent market policies, ALFA erations, always within law limits has never gotten any fines or sanc01 Our 16 Employees SR alfa ALFA puts constant efforts in offering its employees a safer, healthier and inclusive working place, giving them personal and professional development opportunities. ALFA seeks to attract human talent, and give the necessary support so that it reaches its highest potential. At the same time, ALFA promotes a culture of loyalty from and towards the company, to facilitate mutual collaboration. In 2011, health and safety programs were implemented, as well as opportunities for the promotion of employees and their families’ development. 17 SR alfa Highlights Nemak Tennessee, Nemak Alabama, Indelpro, DAK Americas’ Cape Fear, and Terza (Mina) set the record on 7, 5, 2, 2 and 2 consecutive years without lost-time accidents, respectively. 141 health and nutrition programs implemented in benefit of 22,339 employees. 15,000 employees enrolled in Sigma University. 130,000 participants in the recreation programs organized by Nemak Monterrey. GRI LA1, LA2, LA4, LA13, LA14 Workforce ALFA has operations in 17 counThe benefits provided to ALFA is a common practice in ALFA irtries. As a consequence, there is a employees exceed those estarespective of the country in which great diversity of ages, cultures, rablished and required by the local it operates. For management and ces and religions among its emplolaws in the countries where they executive positions, ALFA has deyees, which contributes to enrich its work. ALFA seeks to be a comtermined an incentive plan based labor and professional experience. petitive option to attract and reon individual performance and tain human talent. Pension plans, the achievements of previously By the end of 2011, ALFA had support for education and mediestablished goals. 57,000 employees. 47% of this tocal assistance are available for tal was unionized, and 24% were employees under a permanent In accordance with collective emwomen. 967 employees had excontract. ALFA pension system ployment agreements, any organiecutive positions, of which 76 were consists of a fixed contribuzational changes are reported to women. There is no difference betion plan, fully supported by the the union within two weeks time. 18 tween the base salary for men and company, which ranges from 4% SR women in a same position, because to 17% of an employee’s salary. ALFA employs local personnel alfa the compensation is not based on in the companies it establishes. gender but in capacity and experiAs an example, the initial stanLikewise, it keeps the workforce ence of the person who fills it. dard salary in ALFA companies, of the companies it incorporates compared to the minimum salto its business portfolio. In accor94% of ALFA unionized workary in Mexico in 2011, was 2.3 to 1. dance to the foregoing, a great ers and 98% of administrative Also, all the U.S. employees paid percentage of its companies is employees have a permanent lawith the minimum salary ALFA’s operated and it’s managed by bor contract. plants, received approximately local personnel. As an example, 1.85 times the minimum salary of at the end of 2011, 90% of the GRI 4.17 the region in which the company executive positions of all ALFA ALFA has several channels of operates. Offering a greater salcompanies were filled with local communication with its emary than the minimum established executives. ployees. The main one is the subordinate/boss relationship. Plus, there are print and electronic media through which all the EMPLOYEES IN THE WORLD useful or relevant information is transmitted to its employees. COUNTRY EMPLOYEES COUNTRY EMPLOYEES GRI EC3, EC5, EC7, LA3, LA5 Mexico 41,615 Peru 572 U.S. 5,959 Austria 492 The compensations plans at Germany 1,469 Argentina 377 ALFA seek to offer a competitive Brazil 1,430 China 417 salary and a benefits package Costa Rica 1,121 Canada 345 based on the labor market, the Dominican Republic 1,048 Guatemala 303 profile and the position’s responHungary 859 Czech Republic 236 sibility, making no distinctions Poland 818 Honduras 165 and observing the employment Slovakia 587 Nicaragua 81 laws of the countries in which it El Salvador 514 India 64 operates. WORKFORCE MONTHLY STAFF % PERMANENT % TEMPORARY % ROTATION % Administrative 31,296 53 29,989 98 691 2 5,647 2 Unionized 27,176 47 25,133 94 1,687 6 5,469 2 Men 44,683 76 Women 13,789 24 GRI LA6, LA7, LA8, LA9 Industrial Safety To safeguard the physical integrity of ALFA employees in its work centers continued to be the top priority in 2011. It worked intensely in creating the necessary conditions to reduce accident and sickness rates, supported by the collaboration of an important number of employees enrolled in safety, health and hygiene committees. Also, collective contracts with unionized workers take these aspects into account. 19 SR alfa The main role of the mentioned committees is to improve workforce’s health and safety conNemak Tennessee, ditions. Committees are formally established, with annual an industrial safety model programs that entail particular Nemak Tennessee was again distinguished for its achievements objectives, strategies and acon industrial safety. It got two important certifications in 2011. tion plans, as well as their folOne of them was the “Millionaires Safety Award”, which is grantlow up and results review. A ed by the American Foundry Society (AFS) to every company given number of employees parthat reaches one or more million consecutively worked manticipate in them, always reprehours without suffering any lost-time accidents. This Nemak senting Human Capital, Unions plant set a record of 4.7 million man-hours without these kinds and Safety and Health departof accidents. The other award was the “Commissioners Award ments. As an example, in Nemak of Excellence”, granted by the Tennessee Occupational Health Monterrey there is a Committee and Safety Administration, for setting the above mentioned rewhere 140 out of 6,000 employees cord and also having a record below industry average. participate, which represents 2.3% of the total. The average percentage varies between 2% which Safety and Health topics On the positive side, 12 working and 4% of the total of employees are a priority. Also, every one of centers achieved more than one of each plant. ALFA’s working centers has speor more years without lost-time cific training in accordance to its accidents, while others signifiIn 2011, ALFA invested a total operations. cantly reduced their accidents of U.S. $6.7 million on industrial and frequency rates. safety by implementing 168 programs in its plants. Despite this effort, frequency and accidents ABSENTEEISM RATES OUT OF rates went slightly up compared WORK RELATED ACCIDENTS* to the year before. This makes even more pressing the need to 2009 2010 2011 implement more preventive acLost-time accidents 1,469 1,476 1,735 tions and emphasize the safety Lost days** 23,684 8,648 10,442 culture amongst all employees, with educational and training Fatal accidents 0 0 2 campaigns to meet the permaFrecuency 11% 11% 12% nent goal of zero work-related Work-related accidents rate 242% 87% 103% accidents. Before any employee enters the organization, it goes through a training period, in *Data does not include Nemak plants outside of Mexico **Lost days mean working days Health In 2011, 141 health programs were implemented, mostly preventive, which included vaccination campaigns, fairs and workshops, medical check-ups in work centers, nutritional consulting and fitness programs. Additionally, the great majority of ALFA companies gave medical services to its employees. Nemak Mexico’s health programs benefited more than 20 SR alfa 9,500 employees. 10,000 900 In DAK Americas, employees were benefited with employees from 22 work centers of more than the company’s health and welfare Sigma participated in nutritional programs. support programs. GRI LA10, LA11, LA12 Training In 2011, U.S. $14.2 million were in80% of the employees, in order “Líderes ALFA” (ALFA Leaders) vested on training and develoto design particular plans to enprogram was also implemented, pment programs at all levels, courage their development. which promoted the developincluding courses and technical ment of young professionals who workshops, managerial abilities, As an example, “Mentoring” have shown exceptional qualities among others. This was equivalent program was implemented of leadership, innovation and to 1.9 million man-hours of training. through which employees from learning capacity. the corporate area of ALFA imAt the same time, performance proved their essential abilities to Some of the most important evaluations were held for nearly reach professional growth. The achievements were: Terza and Colombin Bel gave out scholar packages to 224 scholarships and support plans 501 high performance teams operated in 400&100 employees’ children, respectively. were given for employees. SIGMA, with 5,018 employees that developed 1,354 projects. Family-Work Balance 23 Sigma plants have been granted the award “Family Responsible 21 SR Company”, six alfa more than in 2010. 2,250 people participated in the ANSPAC program, which promotes personal and professional improvement of the employees and their spouses. In TEMEX Formative and recreational activities for ALFA employees’ families are a tradition, to which repersonal improvement talks and conferences, among others. 1,200 people attended Family Day cently some initiatives to create Sigma Mexico runs an assistance and 100 children attended their a better balance between work program for employees and their summer camp. and family have been added. families, which includes a free Said initiatives include flexible phone service to give emotion9,800 and working hours, alternative woral, legal, financial and nutritional king schedules, specific consideconsulting 24/7, 365 days a year. rations for pre and post materIn 2011, 2,130 phone calls were re2,700 nity leave, breastfeeding rooms, ceived through this media. days of parental leave, among others. Nemak Mexico’s CAVIDA Center (Quality of Life) gives psychoIn 2011, ALFA companies implelogical support to employees and people enjoyed social and mented more than 80 programs their families in order to improve recreational activities in of integration and family developtheir quality of life. In 2011, 810 Nemak Brazil and Terza, ment including Family Day, visit psychological consultations in respectively. to the plants, summer camps and presence were held. GRI LA13 Diversity ALFA offers employment and development opportunities to all employees, irrespective of nationality, gender, creed, race or economic condition. Its presennce Movement) in Monterrey, Mexico, an organization that promotes the integration of people with disabilities into the workforce. ALFA has imple151 persons with ce in 17 countries, allows ALFA to mented awareness-raising camdisabilities worked have a vast mixture of nationalities, which makes for even richer paigns in its work centers and encourages the employment of in our companies working culture. people with disabilities for poin 2011. Nemak sitions in which these do not ALFA belongs to the Movistop them from carrying out Dillingen, with 51 22 miento Congruencia (Congruetheir activities. and Nemak Brazil SR alfa with 41 stand out. 23 SR alfa GRI HR4, HR5, HR6, HR7 Human Rights ALFA encourages a culture of diversity amongst its employees. In 2011, there were no reports on discriminative actions in any of Flex-time working schedules, maternity ALFA companies. and paternity leave, are a demonstration ALFA allows absolute freedom of association and adherence to of ALFA’s flexibility apart from those collective working agreements or contracts to its employees. established by labor laws. As an example, 94% of ALFA employees, have a collective labor contract. In Mexico, 100% on recruiting practices, nor of On the other hand, ALFA emof the operative staff are unionoperations related to forced or phasizes a policy to keep as ized. This right is monitored by non-consented labors. This was much as possible the current the Human Capital area of every ensured by labor contracts. Flexworkforce of the companies it business unit. time working schedules, materacquires. nity and paternity leave, breastFor recruiting, ALFA’s policy feeding rooms inside facilities ALFA still does not have a prostipulates that the minimum hirand home office jobs, are a demgram for supporting the coning age is 18 years, which is clearonstration of ALFA’s flexibility tinued employment of the peoly established on the collective apart from those established by ple that stopped working in the labor contracts. In 2011, there labor laws. company because of retirement was no registry of complaints or layoff. 02 Our 24 Communities SR alfa ALFA plays an active role in the development of the communities where it operates, in order to improve their quality of life and build trustworthy and mutual beneficial relationships. The efforts are focused on three priorities: education, nutritional health and protection of the environment. Each of the ALFA companies implements particular community engagement programs, with the support of the ALFA Foundation. 25 Highlights SR alfa Sigma donated 1,175 tonnes of product to the Food Bank, benefiting 207,000 people. 110 institutions were benefited by ALFA community support programs. Nemak Tennessee gave support to six schools, benefiting 3,700 students. 85 agreements with universities in 15 countries. 1,860 students visited ALFA’s plants, among other facilities. GRI 4.12 Education 950 Regarding the communities, Nemak Monterrey donated education is the top priority for ALFA. With this in mind, it gives support to schools at all levels, particularly in the most disad80 computers for two schools of were benefitted through economic and in kind donations made by Nemak García and Santa Catarina. Slovakia unto five schools in vantaged areas. These contritheir community. butions are made in cash and in kind, like computing equipment donations, classrooms improvement, aid packages of trash cans, cleaning and reforestation works, as well as conferences 651 students performed professional 4 scholarships for universitylevel studies were granted through the program Líderes practices in ALFA plants. Empresariales UDEM-ALFA. about values and environmental 26 topics. SR alfa Through joint research agreements with a number of leading technical schools and universiNemak in your School ties in almost every country in This program consists in adopting a public elementary school which it operates, ALFA facilifrom the municipality of García, in Nuevo León, for a three year tates students to put into pracperiod. In such schools, a group of Nemak’s volunteer employees tice their skills and knowledge in teach children and parents on family values. 2011 was the second its working centers. year running this program, in which 54 volunteers participated. More than 800 children and 100 parents were benefitted. In total, 400 man/hours of volunteering were invested. Health and Nutrition ALFA is the leading company in the refrigerated foods market in Mexico through its subsidiary Sigma. Therefore, it knows the influence power that it has to promote healthier lifestyles. For such purpose, it supports the implementation of health programs aimed at the general population, in areas such as design, formulating and making of its products, the establishment of nutritional standards, the de27 sign of a consistent marketing SR alfa with the health goals in mind, and the promotion of healthy eating habits in general. As an example of the foregoing, Sigma adhered to the “Nutritional Health National Agreement”, that Sigma contributes to prevent seeks to develop a strategy to fight overweight and obesity in childhood obesity Mexico. It also participates in the In 2011, Sigma joined the “Strategic Alliance with Food and program “Nutrición de Impacto” Beverages Industry” initiative, implemented by the Government (Impact Nutrition), which proof Mexico. This initiative seeks to prevent public health childmotes healthy lifestyles through hood obesity related problems. For this, Sigma has developed nutritional orientation and proa voluntary program aimed for school-age children, and promotion of physical activity among motes healthier eating habits and more physical activity. In austudents from low income elegust, Sigma worked in a pilot program implemented in two mentary schools. In addition, the schools in Monterrey. The company’s objective is to create a company approved a nutrition model supported by a comparative study, and then replicate policy that establishes the maxiit into other educational campuses. In addition to the foregomum levels of fats, salts and suging, the company works in the development of increasingly ars in their food products. healthier products. ALFA knows the influence power it has to promote healthier lifestyles. GRI EC8 Social Assistance Sigma donated to Teleton ALFA supports the communities where it operates, responsibly Ps.5.2million and its employees contributing on life improving initiatives, and applying socioeconomic surveys to determine Ps. 1.2million each community needs. It also 3,200 employees participated in is actively involved in helping Sigma Sonrisas, donating toys and communities in emergency sigifts to tuations, both as a company and also facilitating volunteer employee groups that bring help in such cases. Within this context, 2,500 children. in 2011, more than 110 institu28 tions received support, standing Nemak Poland employees donated SR out Food Banks and Teleton, in 200 alfa Mexico, and United Way, in the U.S. and Canada. liters of blood to the Red Cross in Bielsko-Biala. Red SumaRSE In 2010, as a result of the impact caused by the Alex hurricane in Nuevo León, a citizens and companies initiative branched out: Red SumaRSE, which supports the most affected communities by this disaster. Now the objective of this initiative is to support programs oriented to the rebuild of social structure and the generation of civic conscience of those and other marginalized communities. The project covers several action lines such as: famGoose Communities ily integration, economic development opportunities, citizenry, These communities are integrated by volunteer employees image, identity and culture, refrom ALFA companies that, through innovative practices, covery of public spaces, interseek to make the company a better place to work. They sectoral communication and also contribute in community actions, such as visits and protection of the environment. toys delivery to orphans and natural disasters’ assistance. Several companies of the entity In 2011, 690 employees participated in these groups, in 26 participate in this project, inwork centers. cluding ALFA. GRI EC6 Value Chain Depending on inputs and neVALUE CHAIN cessary equipments, plus quality, price and service factors, ALFA companies procure to obCOMPANY LOCAL SUPPLIERS PERCENTAGE tain their materials through local suppliers in the places where Akra Polyester 95% they operate. Some of them, like Nemak Brazil 95% Nemak and Sigma, have supporAlestra 80% ted supplier’s specific programs, Nemak China 80% which are also trained to improve their business practices. Nemak Poland 70% Sigma has a Suppliers Develop29 74 ment Department, that counsels SR and supports them so they can comply with the standards and The percentage of local supply within the totals fluctuates between % alfa 30% & 95% certifications required by the of Univex’s suppliers are micro, company. It also participates in small and medium size companies. the Cadenas Productivas program, with NAFINSA resources, to help finance small and medium sized companies’ deve286 lopment. Currently, there are Sigma’s “Proyecto milk producers of the Bajio, 114 suppliers enrolled in this Lechero” benefited Western and the Laguna regions program. of Mexico. ALFA 30 Foundation SR alfa This institution was created in 2007, to encompass ALFA’s initiatives in favour of the communities. The foundation engages in sustainable projects at all levels, thus ensuring that this will benefit as many people as possible year after year. 31 SR alfa Highlights 50 Institutions received donations from the ALFA Foundation. 159 events carried out by ALFA Planetarium in 2011. GRI 4.12, EC8 Education 32 SR alfa Health Environment ALFA Foundation focuses its efforts on: The Foundation operates with resources coming mainly from The ALFA Planetarium is the most ALFA companies. In 2011, it went visited museum of its kind in through a restructuring process, redefining its objectives and northeastern Mexico. strategies in order to foster the impact of its actions in the comscience, technology and general to the most vulnerable commumunity. Accordingly, it supports culture. The ALFA Planetarium is nities in the state. Thus, ALFA institutions that attend populathe most visited museum of its Planetarium gives free access to tion centers that suffer from lack kind in northeastern Mexico. different groups from communiof education and health, and also ty centers, with touring and edumalnutrition and extreme poverThroughout the year, it opened cational film projections. ty problems. This information is its doors to more than 293,000 gathered by socioeconomic survisitors, 17% more than last year’s Among the 159 events held at veys carried out periodically, beattendance. This number includes the Planetarium this year, the fore and during the development 82,000 scholars from 751 schools, astronomic evenings and the of ALFA activities. from kindergarten to universities. interactive exhibit “Bob the Constructor: Build it yourself The main program fostered The collaboration agreement Project” were outstanding. In adby the Foundation is the ALFA between the Foundation and the dition, the ALFA Planetarium dePlanetarium, an interactive muMinistry of Social Development cided to go out into the city and seum aimed mainly to children of the state of Nuevo Leon visit 24 schools, benefiting with and youngsters, seeking to genstands out. The goal is to bring this a total of 3,522 students. erate a greater appreciation for science and technology closer Other outstanding exhibits were: POP ART Andy Warhol’s Workshop, a joint interactiMR. POTATO FACE ve exhibit from ADVENTURES the Pittsburgh Presented for the first time in Children’s Mexico in collaboration with the Museum and Betty Brinn Children’s Museum the Warhol from Milwaukee, Wisconsin. Museum. 33 SR alfa 6,576 people participated in the In commemoration of XTREME-BIKE EVENT “INTERNATIONAL DAY OF where visitors proved their CHEMISTRY, ART IN EVERY strength and learned about ELEMENT” physics. 144 projects from 24 academic institutions were received. GLOBAL SHOES Brooklyn’s Children Museum interactive exhibit in which, through RECICLA FEST 180 kinds of shoes, it shows the 500 people assisted to the Recicla BODY FORWARD OF cultural and craftwork diversiFest, an event that promotes the FIRST LEGO LEAGUE ty, and the different ways of life recycling of paper, plastics and Along with the Oxford around the world. batteries. School Barragán. 03 Our 34 SR alfa Environment GRI EC2, EN26, EN28 ALFA works permanently in minimizing the impact of its operations on the environment. Through initiatives that optimiTo ensure the compliance of enzed the use of natural resources vironmental management stanin processes and energy condards, ALFA continuously supersumption from cleaner sources, vises its processes and conducts reduction of waste and emisregular performance audits (both sions, waste water treatment internal and external). This allows and materials recycling, ALFA it to comply with all of the existing works permanently in minimienvironmental laws of the counzing the impact of its operatries in which it operates. In 2011, tions on the environment. In there were no sanctions or fines addition, ALFA encourages a concerning this matter. cleaner distribution system, as well as the use of more enviALFA acknowledges its responronmentally friendly containers sibility towards climate change, and packages. that’s why its companies have tak35 en measures to detect risks and SR alfa opportunities that come out of this situation. They are working in technologies and processes that ensure them to be able to face changes in raw materials, as well as new regulations on the subject. Highlights In the last five years, ALFA has implemented more than 280 projects, with a total energy savings of 4.4 x106 GJ per year. ALFA avoided the emission of 8.9million tonnes of CO2 into the athmosphere, through the implementation of six energetic efficiency and recycling programs. The energy savings related to PET containers recycling is 1x106GJ per year, which is equivalent to the annual energy consumption of 8,200 homes in the U.S. GRI EN3, EN4, EN5, EN6, EN7 Energy ALFA companies make an intensive use of energy in their processes. Because of this, in 2007 In the period 2007-2011, U.S. $58 million ALFA created a Senior Vice-Presidency in charge of everything were invested in the implementation of 280 related to energy. The goal is to optimize the energy consumpenergy efficiency projects. tion, and consequently reduce the emissions into the atmosimplementation of 280 energy efsimilar projects have been develphere. From that year to date, it ficiency projects, with the use of oped. The total energy savings has had significant results. cutting edge technology. Power resulting from said projects is 4.4 cogeneration, change of fuels, x 106 GJ per year, which is equivaIn the period 2007-2011, U.S. implementation of better praclent to removing 397,000 cars off 36 $58 million were invested in the tices on plants, and many other the road in the same period. SR alfa Cogeneration Equipments As part of the Energy Efficiency program, in 2011 two cogeneration turbines were installed in the Sigma plants at Atitalaquia, Hidalgo, and Polioles at Lerma, Estado de Mexico. These turbines work with natural gas instead of other fossil fuels and use the boilers’ steam to produce electricity. These two projects together help to avoid emission of 18,200 tons of CO2 per year, compared against the conventional electric generation, savings equal to the emissions of 7,100 cars. In 2011, DAK Americas started naces area for the pre-heating of it was wasted. This project allows running a project consisting on different water and air currents. recovering remnant heat, generatusing condensed steam in the Originally, once these preheating an annual saving of 283,000 coal-fired furnaces area. This ings were done, the steam got GJ, which is equivalent to energy steam coming from the monocondensed and returned to the consumption of 2,300 homes in mers’ process is sent to the furmonomers area as water, where the U.S. Since the beginning of the Through 120 energy Nemak Monterrey reached energy reduction program saving projects, in 2011 savings of 84,402 GJ per in 2006, DAK Americas Sigma saved 8,280 GJ year, which is equivalent has reduced energy per year. to avoid emissions from consumption per unit of 7,650 cars. production by 16% . In 2011, ALFA energy con2% sumption was of approximate1% ly 31 x 106 GJ. Out of this total, 85% came from natural gas, the cleanest fuel from an environNatural Gas mental stand point, representing 10% a 78% of total. Fuel Oil Sigma’s distribution network in 31x106 GJ Carbon Mexico and the U.S., consumed in 2011, 1.22 x 106 GJ of fuels, Liquid Gas mainly diesel. The company is 2% constantly working in improving Other the efficiency of its transportation fleet through better practic85% es, continuous maintenance and unit renovation. *This info does not include Enertek steam, nor DAK Columbia steam, nor bought gasses by Polioles Lerma. *This info does not include transportation. 37 SR alfa GRI EN16, EN18 Emissions Energy saving projects have produced a significant reduction of emissions in all business units of ALFA. The following chart shows emissions figures by energy consumption of our petrochemical, auto components and refrigerated foods plants in 2011. EMISSIONS (TONNES CO2) DIRECT(1) INDIRECT(2) TOTAL Emissions 1’980,000 1’615,000 3’595,000 (1) The direct emissions include Sigma’s transportation. (2) The indirect emissions include electricity, Enertek gasses, DAK Columbia gasses and Polioles Lerma gasses. EMISSIONS REDUCTIONS (TONNES CO2) 2010 2011 Aluminum recycling 4’600,000 4’860,000 Cogeneration Projects 1’200,000 1’205,000 Indelpro Pemex Project 1’000,000 1’000,000 Energy Efficiency 865,000 881,000 PET Recycling 150,000 805,000 Energy Integration 120,000 120,000 TOTAL 7’935,000 8’871,000 The cogeneration plant in Petrocel at Altamira, operates with natural gas, avoiding the emission of 86,439 tonnes of CO2 per year compared with the use of other fuels. Thanks to its energy efficiency program 38 Petrotemex achieved in SR 2011, a reduction of 10,053 alfa tonnes of CO2 compared to 2010. The maintenance and reengineering program at the fumes collector in Nemak Monterrey’s Fussion Center resulted in 80% less emissions compared to 2010. DAK Americas exceeded its 3% annual reduction goal of Indelpro and Pemex reduce emissions emissions of green In the year 2000, Indelpro and Pemex started a joint project house gases (GHG) in to make the most of the propane-propylene gasses, a residue from Pemex refineries in Madero, Cadereyta and Tula. Back the 2009-2011 period. then, part of those residues was used in other processes or for liquid fuel (LP). A big part of residue’s surpluses, were burnt without any other end-use other than damaging the atmosphere. Indelpro’s technology allowed it to fully exploit these residues to use them as raw material for the making of polyTo make Green House gasses propylene, which substituted the importation of the product measurements, ALFA uses “GHG and ended the emissions derived from its burning. In 2005, Protocol Corporate Standard” Indelpro also started using the gas streams from the refineries tools, from GreenHouse Protocol in Salamanca, Minatitlán and Salina Cruz. As a result, in 2011 Initiative. Pemex stopped sending almost 1’000,000 tonnes of CO2 per year into the atmosphere, equivalent to avoid the emissions produced by 390,000 cars per year. GRI EN2, EN27 Recycling Recyling continued to be an issue In the packaging aspect, some of great relevance for ALFA, given companies do not use package the benefits this activity brings, materials for their products, givsuch as space clearing, energy and en that they get supplies via hopwater saving, as well as emissions pers or tanks; other recycle and avoidance. Every work center in reuse materials such as dais and ALFA runs recycling programs: sacks, while others, like Sigma, from waste separation in offices, do use bottles and packages. to collecting cardboard, plasThis company in particular has tics, wood, steel and aluminum in managed to make them lighter plants. and environmental friendlier. Nemak used 486,000 tonnes of recycled Clear Path Recycling, joint venture aluminum in its process, and stopped company of Shaw Industries, 39 SR sending out 4.9 million tonnes of CO2 per recycled 43,600 tons of PET bottles. alfa year into the atmosphere, versus having This action avoided the use of used bauxite as raw material. This is 262,000 m3 of landfill. equivalent to avoid emissions of 1.9 million cars in a year. The Acciones Verdes program (Green Movimiento Verde (Green Movement) in Actions) at Corporate ALFA gave results Alestra collected 9.8 tonnes of recyclable such as 217 non-logged trees and 35m3 of material (paper, PET and aluminum) and non-used landfill. 62 kg. of batteries. GRI EN23, EN27 Residues DAK Americas Zero Residues ALFA seeks to eliminate the Akra Polyester In 2009, DAK Americas starmajority of residues generated ted the implementation of a by its plants, or if applicable, to avoided the new program to avoid comsend them to an authorized loconfinement of 7,000 pletely the residue disposal cation for their disposal, always in landfills. The objective, in a complying with the current legisliters of oil used in five year horizon, was to reach tations on the matter. For this, it transformers and the complete elimination of has made important investments residues. The Cape Fear site in equipment that allow an ideal compressors by burning reached this target in june, use of raw materials, and to add them in low pressure 2011. Cooper River and Cedar value to the residues in such Creek sites are near reaching a way that they can be used in steam boilers. it. This has been possible other productive processes. In thanks to an increase of resi2011 there were no significant dues recycling. cases of spillage. GRI EN9, EN10, EN21 Water 40 SR alfa ALFA has 33 water treatment The water treated by ALFA plants, and in some cases, this sercompanies is reused in their own vice is hired from outside contracprocesses and garden watering, tors. In addition, each ALFA comor goes to local drainage, company operates specific programs plying with the regulations on and projects aimed to the saving the matter. of this resource. It has managed to reduce water consumption, which was of 102’212,277 m3 in 2011. In 2011, Sigma treated 2 million m3 of water in its plants, the same volume that 19,710 people would consume in a year. Akra Polyester recycled 456,000 m3 of water in 2011, which was reused in its boilers for steam generation processes. During 2011, ALFA had no reports or registries of Temex implemented two purge and waste water recovery systems, retrieving significant affectations 294,000 m3 of liquid per year. to water sources, derived from water consumption Nemak Monterrey reduced more than 100,000 m3 of water consumption and/or extraction by in 2011. its companies. GRI EN11, EN12, EN13, EN14, EN15 Biodiversity and Environmental Awareness Several ALFA plants are surrounMonterrey, which is inside a Yuca high biodiversity and/or envided by natural areas. For this Forest. For this reason, it carries ronmental law protected areas, reason, ALFA companies carry out activities such as relocation it does implement strategies and out actions for their preservaand maintenance of the Yucas actions for the safeguarding of all tion. The foregoing goes from near the facility. No other ALFA natural areas around its facilities. maintenance and safeguarding plant or building is located near of areas where various species of to, or leases, manages nor owns ALFA operations do not affect wildlife and flora live, to cleaning high biodiversity areas or areas any endangered species. Every and reforestation labors. protected by environmental laws. reforestation, recovery and care actions carried out by ALFA The only facility that is locatEven though ALFA does not companies are guided and sued near a natural area is Nemak have a specific policy regarding pervised by themselves. 41 Univex protected and managed 21 SR alfa hectares of ecological reserves that surround its facilities. It also planted 5,000 Greggi pines. During Earth Day’s celebration, Nemak Canada promoted the planting of more Petrotemex safeguards 350 hectares than 200 trees in its community. around its facilities, allowing the growth of native species of the region. Polioles supported the reforestation of Sierra Morelos Park in Estado de Mexico. Nemak Monterrey donated 3.5 tonnes of food for the fauna displaced by the 114 Petrotemex’s volunteers instructed forest fires in Coahuila, Mexico, last year. 2,228 students from elementary schools on environmental awareness. Nemak Monterrey, Monclova and Saltillo plants donated more than 800 trees and palms to their municipalities. Turtle Release As in the last years, 200 people from Indelpro, among employees and relatives, attended a meeting at Tesoro beach, Altamira, Tamaulipas, to carry out the ritual of releasing sea turALFA operations tles to the Gulf of Mexico. During summer, proper conditions do not affect any gather for the birth of sea turtles hatchlings, who spawn in this Mexico zone. Indelpro makes the most of this situation by orendangered ganizing a family event with its employees, motivating them to species. contribute to the hatchlings protection when they hatch out of their eggs and move into the sea to complete their cycle of life. GRI 4.12 Sustainability without Borders Nemak Dillingen, Germany Nemak Wernigerode, Germany • 51 employees with disabilities worked in the plant, • 20% of its energy consumption was generated 10 of them with extreme disabilities. from renewable sources. • 364 employees were benefited by health and nu• U.S. $173,000 were invested in training programs. trition programs. • U.S. $79,800 were invested in health programs. • 626 training programs for employees were held. • The company supported an Evaluation Center for • 12 institutions received support, including orphanjunior-high students and a cultural group in their ages, food banks, fire departments, Red Cross community. and Civil Defense. 42 SR alfa Nemak Nanjing, China Nemak Linz, Austria • U.S. $492,000 were invested in training for its • 300 employees were benefitted with 13 health and employees. nutrition programs. • More than 300 employees participated in recre• Thanks to its recycling program, 54 tonnes of sand ational and sporting events. were daily recovered in its processes. Nemak Brazil Nemak Windsor, Canada • 41 people with disabilities worked in the plant, 15 of • U.S. $645,000 were invested on emissions reducthem were hired in 2011. tions, including a dust collector equipment. • 9,800 people participated in company’s recre• Reduction of a 12.5% on gas and electricity conational programs. sumption by unit produced. • 50 students benefitted by Crescer program, which • Institutions such as Juvenile Diabetes Research offers vocational orientation, educational talks and Foundation, United Way and an Unemployed outdoor activities. Help Center were supported, among others. • The Brazilian Association for Fighting Cancer, • Thanks to “Bike to Work” program, Nemak Canada the Brazilian Red Cross and the victims of Rio de convinced 13 employees to exchange their cars Janeiro flooding, were supported with donations for bikes when going to work. by the company and volunteer employees. Nemak Ziar, Slovakia DAK Americas Zárate, Argentina • 20,000 men-hours of training were provided. • At the Earth Day celebration, a group of volun• 950 students from five schools were benefited teer employees gave talks about the environment with cash and in kind donations. to 540 students from eight elementary schools of • 5,000 people attended the three cultural events their community. sponsored by the plant. The Children Folklore • The company participated one more time in the Ensemble in Ziar stands out. National Paper Recycling Program. Nemak Györ, Hungary DAK Americas, U.S. • There was a 10% reduction on natural gas con(North and South Carolina) sumption without reducing plant productivity. • Cape Fear plant achieved two years without lost• Approximately U.S. $1 million was invested in the time accidents. cleaning and air extraction system installed at the • U.S. $1.1 million invested in 41 industrial safety smelting area. programs. • The anti-smoking program was implemented among • The Cedar Creek plant started the installation of a its employees. As a result, 40 of them quit smoking. residue disposal system on ground instead of un• The plant financially supported the Technologic derground, reducing pollution. Innovation Programs of Miskolc and Szcéchenyi • Financial and volunteering support was given to 43 universities. the United Way programs, Cumberland Co., Mental SR alfa • Several classrooms and one gymnasium were reHealth programs and Adopt a Highway program. built in two local high schools with Nemak’s finan• 365 people, among employees and their families, cial support. attended Family Day at the South Carolina State • Three students received scholarships for entering Museum. Miskolc University. Nemak Tennessee, U.S. Nemak Bielsko-Biala, Poland • The plant achieved seven years without lost-time • In 2011, it reduced in 12%, 7.9% y 2.5% water conaccidents. sumption, natural gas and electricity, respectively • 99% of water used in its processes in 2011 was by produced unit, compared to 2010. recycled. • 5,663 employees participated in the familiy recre• U.S. $33,000 invested in family development activational and integration activities. ities and scholar support for employees’ children. • Support to the Foundation for Development in • Four social assistance institutions were supBielsko–Biała and giving out gifts for handicapped ported: Habitat for Humanity, American Kidney children of the “Dzieciece Marzenia” Foundation. Foundation, American Cancer Society and Angel Tree. • Six schools received donations, benefiting 3,700 students. Nemak Alabama, U.S. Nemak Most, Czech Republic • The plant reached a record of five years without • U.S. $200,000 invested in energy use and saving lost-time accidents. optimization processes. • U.S. $1.3 million were invested on environmental • U.S. $56,300 invested in training programs. programs. • Financial support to the fire station and nursery • The plant supported United Way, American school in Havran municipality. Cancer Society and the victims of the Sylacauga • Its employees gave out gifts to children of a tornado. kindergarten in Most. • The Marble City Festival, in Sylacauga, was sponsored one more time. GRI 2.9, 3.1, 3.2, 3.3, 3.5, 3.6, 3.7, 3.8, 3.9, 3.10, 3.11, 3.13 About this Report This document comprises the Likewise, all ALFA operations in manifests its support to the 10 activities of ALFA in sustaina17 countries are included. Principles of the United States bility matters in 2011. This is the Global Compact. Throughout eighth consecutive report on the This report is published annuthe document, you may find the subject and covers the five bually, so it follows the one pubreference to a specific reportsiness groups of ALFA: Alpek, lished in 2011. For the second ed GRI indicator on the superiNemak, Sigma, Alestra and Newconsecutive year, the informaor part of each section title. In pek. There is also information tion gathering and analysis is 2011, we have reported 47 indion other subsidiaries, such as based on the Global Reporting cators fully. 44 Colombin Bel, Terza and Alliax, Initiative (GRI G3) methodology. SR besides the ALFA Foundation. For the sixth year in a row, ALFA alfa This year, we report new operations in the following areas: Acquisition of a new PTA plant Acquisition of AT&T’s 49% and one PET plant from Eastman shareholding in Alestra, S. de R.L., Chemicals Co., in the U.S. in Mexico Acquisition of a PET plant Newpek LLC’s expansion from Wellman, Inc., in the U.S. in the U.S. The foregoing information must most relevant activities of 2011; be considered when making third, based on the materiality of comparisons of data included the indicators for the industries on ALFA’s previous reports. The served by ALFA and in reference content definition was based to the expressed concerns by our on three criteria: first, consisstakeholders, through the differtency with the data reported in ent communication channels the 2011; second, agreement with the company offers. The materiality of the indicators was based on the following: Business analysis Analysis of ALFA stakeholders’ financial, social and environmental concerns Analysis of business, Analysis of the most relevant events risks and opportunities of the year The measuring methods were ALFA for 20 years, to report their vision. In the second secbased on those defined by GRI. numbers in U.S. dollars of its fition, a description of the comTo make the translations from nancial statements. pany is given including every Mexican pesos to U.S. dollars, an business unit, countries in which average of the exchange rate of For a clearer understanding, the it operates, as well as main finanthe months in which these transreport contents are organized in cial data. Next, ALFA’s vision on actions took place was used. For several sections: the first one insustainability and the descripthe balance sheet items, the excludes a statement of achievetion of its Corporate Governance change rate at the end of the ments in 2011, followed by a brief and company’s business ethics year, which was of $13.98 pesos description of ALFA. After that, are presented. 45 per U.S. dollar was used. This the Chairman of the Board and SR alfa methodology has been used by the President of ALFA present The third section of the document describes the three action cores of ALFA’s sustainability plan, as well as each of its activities. Core 1: Our Employees Core 2: Our Communities Core 3: Our Environment The fourth section, called level certificate, followed by “Sustainability without Borders”, the support manifest to the 10 comprises the most outstanding Principles of the United Nations programs in social responsibilGlobal Compact. The report closity carried out by ALFA compaes with the main certifications in nies around the world. The fisocial responsibility matters renal part includes the GRI Index, ceived during the year. For 2012 the letter of verification of the ALFA commits to achieve a betIdeaRSE Center of the Anahuac ter comparability of the reported University, the GRI application data in previous years. This Sustainability Report is the first having a GRI check and a third party check. For this, ALFA has joined efforts with Ética y Estrategia Consulting for the report development process and IdeaRSE Center of the Anahuac University experts, who have validated the application of the GRI methodology. This ratifies the level B+ qualification. Principles of the United Nations Global Compact Human Rights Principle I (GC I) To support and respect human rights protection. Principle II (GC II) To not be an accomplice of rights abuse. 46 SR alfa Labor Conditions Principle III (GC III) To support the principles of freedom of association and the right to collective negotiation. Principle IV (GC IV) To eliminate forced and obligatory labor. Principle V (GC V) To abolish any way of child labor. Principle VI (GC VI) To eliminate discrimination on employment and job positions matters. Environment Principle VII (GC VII) To support the preventive focus towards environmental challenges. Principle VIII (GC VIII) To promote a greater environmental responsibility. Principle IX (GC IX) To encourage development and spreading of environmental respectful technologies. Fight against Corruption Principle X (GC X) To act against every form of corruption, including extortion and bribery. GRI 2.10 Certifications and Awards Alpek AKRA Polyester • SARI Certification (Integral Responsibility Management System) ANIQ • OEKO-TEX Certificate (Hohenstein Textile Testing Institute) • Clean Industry (SEMARNAT) 47 SR alfa Indelpro • Clean Industry (SEMARNAT) Petrotemex • Clean Industry (SEMARNAT) • Selfmanagement of Health and Safety at Work (STPS) • SARI Certification (Integral Responsibility Management System) ANIQ Polioles • Clean Industry (SEMARNAT) • Safe Industry, Lerma Plant (STPS) • SARI (Integral Responsibility Management System) Altamira Plant, ANIQ TEMEX • Clean Industry (SEMARNAT) • Family Responsible Company (STPS) Nemak Nemak Wernigerode, Germany • BS OHSAS 18001:2007 (A+G Schutz) Nemak Nanjing, China • ISO 14001 (Zhongshui Yuanshu authentication center) • OHSMS 18001 (Zhongshui Yuanshu authentication center) • Green Supplier (Shanghai General Motors) Nemak Tennessee, U.S. • ISO 14001 (KIWA International Cert GmbH) • Millionaires Safety Award (AFS) • Comissioner’s Award of Excellence – Safety (Tennessee Dept. of Labor and Workforce Development) Nemak Alabama, U.S. • Millionaires Safety Award for HPDC (North American Die Casting Association NADCA) • Manufacturer Alabama Safety Award for LFO (Manufacturer Alabama) • ISO 14001 (ICS/KIWA) Nemak Györ, Hungary • AEO Certification (aeo.hu Consulting Ltd.) Nemak Monterrey, Mexico • ISO 14001 Certification (ABS Quality Evaluations) 48 • Clean Industry (SEMARNAT) SR • Recognition for supporting fauna care in Coahuila (SEMARNAT) alfa • Emmisions Reduction (Nuevo León State Government) Nemak Monclova, Mexico • Clean Industry (SEMARNAT) Nemak Ziar, Poland • Safety Certificate OHSAS 18001:2007 • ISO 14001 • OHSAS 18001 Nemak Most, Czech Republic • OHSAS 18001:2008 (TÜV International) Sigma • Familiy Responsible Company for 23 work centers (STPS) • Clean Industry for seven plants (SEMARNAT) • SQF (Quality and innocuous food certification) for eight plants (Safe Quality Food Institute) • Socially Responsible Company to Celaya plant (Mexican Center for Philantropy) Alestra • Clean Industry (SEMARNAT) • Recognition for “Effective Management of Health and Safety at Work” (STPS) GRI 3.12 GRI Index GRI DESCRIPTION PAGE REPORTED STRATEGY AND ANALYSIS 1.1 Statement from the most senior decision-maker of the organization. 6-7 Fully 1.2 Description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities. 6-9 Fully ORGANIZATIONAL PROFILE dust jacket inside 2.1 Name of the organization. Fully front flap dust jacket inside 2.2 Primary brands, products, and/or services. Fully front flap, 2-3 2.3 Operational structure of the organization. 2-4 Fully 2.4 Location of organization's headquarters. dust jacket inside Fully 49 front flap SR dust jacket inside alfa 2.5 Number of countries where the organization operates. Fully front flap, 2-3 dust jacket inside 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form. Fully front flap dust jacket inside 2.7 Markets served (including geographic breakdown, sectors served, and types of customers/beneficiaries). Fully front flap dust jacket inside 2.8 Scale of the reporting organization. Fully front flap, 2-3, 5 dust jacket inside 2.9 Significant changes during the reporting period regarding size, structure, or ownership. Fully front flap, 6-7, 44 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period. 47-48 Fully REPORT PARAMETERS 3.1 Reporting period (e.g., fiscal/calendar year) for information provided. 6-7, 44 Fully 3.2 Date of most recent previous report (if any). 6-7, 44 Fully 3.3 Reporting cycle (annual, biennial, etc.) 44 Fully dust jacket 3.4 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents. Fully outside back flap 3.5 Process for defining report content. 44-45 Fully 3.6 Boundary of the report. 44-45 Fully 3.7 State any specific limitations on the scope or boundary of the report. 44-45 Fully 3.8 Basis for reporting on joint ventures. 44-45 Fully 3.9 Data measurement techniques and the bases of calculations. 44-45 Fully 3.10 Explanation of the effect of any re-statements of information provided in earlier reports. 44-45 Fully 3.11 Significant changes from previous reporting periods. 44-45 Fully dust jacket inside 3.12 Table identifying the location of the Standard Disclosures in the report. Fully front flap 3.13 Policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance for the report. 44-45 Fully GOVERNANCE, COMMITMENTS AND ENGAGEMENT 4.1 Governance structure of the organization, including committees under the Board's supervision. 13-14 Fully 4.2 Indicate whether the Chairman of the Board is also an executive officer. 13-14 Fully 4.3 Number of members of the Board that are independent and/or non-executive members. 13-14 Fully 4.4 Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to provide recommendations to the Board. 14 Fully 4.5 Linkage between compensation for members of the Board and company's performance. 13-14 Fully 4.6 Processes in place for the Board to ensure conflicts of interest are avoided. 12-13 Fully 4.7 Process for determining the qualifications and expertise of the members of the Board. 13-14 Fully 4.8 Mission, Vision and Values. 12 Fully 4.9 Adherence and compliance of international standards. 13-14 Fully 4.10 Evaluation of the Board performance. 13-14 Fully 4.11 Explanation of whether and how the precautionary approach or principle is addressed by the organization. Note 1 Fully 4.12 Externally developed economic, environmental, and social charters, principles, or other initiatives. 26, 32, 42 Fully 4.13 Memberships in associations. 15 Partially 4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization. 9-10 Fully 4.15 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage. 9-10 Fully GRI DESCRIPTION PAGE REPORTED 4.16 Approaches to stakeholder engagement, including frequency of engagement. 9, 10 Fully 4.17 Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement and company's response. 10, 13-14, 18 Fully PERFORMANCE INDICATORS ECONOMIC EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed 5 Fully EC2 Financial implications, risks and opportunities for the organization's activities due to climate change. 35 Fully EC3 Coverage of the organization's defined benefit plan obligations. 18 Fully EC4 Significant financial assistance received from government. 4 Fully EC5 Initial standard salary. 18 Fully EC6 Policy, practices, and proportion of spending on locally-based suppliers at significant locations of operation. 29 Fully EC7 Procedures for local hiring 18 Fully EC8 Development and impact of infrastructure investments and services provided for public benefit 28, 32 Fully ENVIRONMENTAL EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials. 39 Fully EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary energy source. 36-37 Fully EN4 Indirect energy consumption by primary source. 36-37 Partially EN5 Energy 36-37 Fully EN6 Energy 36-37 Fully EN7 Energy 36-37 Fully EN9 Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of water. 40 Fully 50 EN10 Percentage and total volume of water recycled and reused. 40 Partially SR EN11 Biodiversity 41 Partially alfa EN12 Biodiversity 41 Partially EN13 Biodiversity 41 Partially EN14 Biodiversity 41 Fully EN15 Biodiversity 41 Fully EN16 Emissions 37-38 Fully EN18 Emissions 37-38 Fully EN21 Total water discharge by quality and destination. 40 Fully EN23 Total number and volume of significant spills. 39 Fully EN26 Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of products and services, and extent of impact mitigation. 35 Fully EN27 Percentage of products sold and their packaging materials that are reclaimed by category. 39 Fully EN28 Fines and sanctions for non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations. 35 Fully SOCIAL: LABOR PRACTICES AND DECENT WORK LA1 Total workforce. 18 Fully LA2 Total number and rate of employee turnover by age group, gender, and region. 18 Partially LA3 Benefits 18 Fully LA4 Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements. 18 Fully LA5 Notice period(s) regarding significant operational changes. 18 Fully LA6 Health and safety committees. 19-20 Partially LA7 Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism. 19-20 Partially LA8 Health 19-20 Partially LA9 Health 19-20 Fully LA10 Training 20 Fully LA11 Training 20 Partially LA12 Performance and career development reviews. 20 Fully LA13 Diversity 18, 22 Partially LA14 Ratio of basic salary of men to women 18 Fully SOCIAL: HUMAN RIGHTS HR4 Incidents of discrimination 23 Fully HR5 Freedom of association and collective bargaining 23 Fully HR6 Operations identified as having significant risk for incidents of child labor 23 Fully HR7 Operations identified as having significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory labor 23 Fully HR8 Security personnel trained in the organization's policies or procedures concerning human rights 11 Fully HR9 Rights of indigenous people 11 Fully SOCIAL: SOCIETY SO2 Risks related to corruption 11, 14-15 Fully SO3 Percentage of employees trained in organization's anti-corruption policies and procedures. 14-15 Fully SO4 Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption. 11, 14-15 Partially SO5 Public policy positions and participation in public policy development and lobbying. 15 Fully SO6 Contributions to political parties, politicians, and related institutions 14-15 Fully SO7 Anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly practices 15 Fully GRI DESCRIPTION PAGE REPORTED SO8 Fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with laws and regulations 14-15 Fully SOCIAL: PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY PR2 Regulations and voluntary codes concerning health and safety impacts of products and services 11 Fully PR3 Type of product and service information required by procedures 11 Fully PR4 Incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning product information. 11 Fully PR6 Programs for adherence to laws, standards, and voluntary codes related to marketing communications 11 Partially PR7 Incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning marketing communications 11 Fully PR8 Customer privacy and losses of customer data 11 Fully PR9 Legal. 11 Fully Note 1: At the time of the issuing of this report, ALFA does not have a Precautionary Principle. DISCLOSURES ON MANAGEMENT APPROACH DISCLOSURE ON MANAGEMENT APPROACH | ECONOMIC Fully ASPECTS Dust jacket inside Economic Performance Fully front flap, 5,18 Market presence 2, 18, 29 Fully Indirect economic impacts 28 Fully DISCLOSURE ON MANAGEMENT APPROACH | ENVIRONMENT Partially ASPECTS Materials 39 Fully Energy 36, 37 Partially 51 Water 40 Partially SR alfa Biodiversity 41 Partially Emissions, effluents and waste 37-40 Fully Products and services 35, 39 Fully Compliance 35 Fully DISCLOSURE ON MANAGEMENT APPROACH | LABOR Partially ASPECTS Employment 18 Partially Labor/management relations 18 Fully Occupational health and safety 19, 20 Partially Training and education 20 Partially Diversity and equal opportunity 18, 22 Partially DISCLOSURE ON MANAGEMENT APPROACH | HUMAN RIGHTS Partially ASPECTS Non-discrimination 23 Fully Freedom of association and collective bargaining 23 Fully Child labor 23 Fully Forced and compulsory labor 23 Fully Security practices 11 Fully Indigenous rights 11 Fully DISCLOSURE ON MANAGEMENT APPROACH | SOCIAL Partially ASPECTS Corruption 11, 14-15 Partially Public policy 14, 15 Fully Anti-competitive behavior 15 Fully Compliance 14, 15 Fully DISCLOSURE ON MANAGEMENT APPROACH | PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY Partially ASPECTS Customer health and safety 11 Fully Product and service labelling 11 Fully Marketing communications 11 Partially Customer privacy 11 Fully Compliance 11 Fully 52 SR alfa 53 SR alfa 54 SR alfa 55 SR alfa This report has been designed to be published electronically. Only 250 copies have been printed. ALFA reaffirms its commitment to the environment by using innocuous materials. This report has been printed using FSC certificated stock, recycled and free of chlorine in its process. CONTACT Enrique Flores Vice President of Corporate Communication eflores@alfa.com.mx Ph. +52 (81) 8748-1207 ALFA, S.A.B. DE C.V. Av. Gómez Morín 1111 sur Col. Carrizalejo San Pedro Garza García, N.L. C.P. 66254, Mexico Ph. +52(81) 8748 1111 Fax: +52 (81) 8748 2552 Design www.alfa.com.mx
