Communication on Progress 2012 Communication on Progress 2012 Statement of continued support Develco is a highly recognized engineering company designing high-end electronics and embedded software. Innovation, reliability, and future-proficiency are keywords. Point of rotation at Develco is the UN Global Compact. The ten principles constitute the basis for Develco and our employees – it is simply the way we are doing business. We believe that a sustainable approach at all levels affects our results and bottom line in a direct, positive way. Our customers and subcontractors all form part of our CSR policy. We regard the value chain as a whole and expect our close partners to comply with the ten principles in the UN Global Compact as well. Therefore, we have included the ten principles in our basis contract in order to make subcontractors substantiate their compliance with the UN Global Compact. The environment constitutes the point of departure in many of the solutions that we design. Though, we always have to counterbalance our efforts and our results. It is crucial to us that our CSR initiatives and the products and services that we deliver to our customers do keep up their balance. We are pleased to participate in the network of UN Global Compact partners. Networking is a cornerstone in our innovation and design business and we look forward to participating in the CSR activities together with the other engaged and responsible companies. At the same time, we are proud and humble to be part of the UN Global Compact. It is a great pleasure for me to confirm that Develco reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labor, Environment and Anti-Corruption. In this annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to share this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Sincerely yours, Kresten Nørgaard Christensen, Managing Director Communication on Progress 2012 The Develco approach Our approach to the UN Global Compact is at the same time strategic, business-driven, and responsible. At Develco, the skilled employees constitute the foundation for the business. As highly skilled technical specialist, the engineers are a valuable asset when it comes to advising our customers. Our mission is to turn our customers into winner companies. By providing high quality counseling on sustainable solutions, we contribute to make our customer’s products future-proof and competitive. The UN Global Compact principles have been integrated in our ISO 9001 and ISO 14001 systems thus being inherent part of our working processes. Actions undertaken Develco has completed the update of our contract base embedding the UN Global Compact statements and the 10 principles in all our generic framework agreements. Our suppliers can only be approved having committed to the 10 principles. The wind turbine company Vestas has been assigned as mentor for Develco under UNDP. Principles 1-2: Human rights All activities in Develco support and respect the protections of internationally proclaimed human rights. It is a matter of course that we are not complicit in human rights abuses. Principles 3-6: Labor Being a knowledge-based development company, the Develco employees and their innovative competencies constitute our most valuable asset. Well-being, education, and working conditions in general therefore are high priority areas for the management. To secure that our employees have the best competences Develco has launched an educational program, offering individual educational plans for our employees within normal working hours and all costs covered by Develco. Communication on Progress 2012 Occupational health and safety measures have been taken to ensure the optimum working conditions in our offices. Every year, we conduct a satisfaction surveys. We put up ambitious objectives objectives that have all been fulfilled within the fields of employee satisfaction as well as customer satisfaction. Develco is conscious of work-life balance and has established flexible working hours and tolerance for personal issues. As part of Develco’ intelligent energy project in South Africa, we have conducted a Domestic Workers Energy Awareness (DWEA) event. Communication on Progress 2012 We invited domestic workers living in Soweto for our event in Meyerton/Johannesburg. We taught them a lot of aspects about energy, among them: • Why should we care about our energy consumption • Where does energy come from How to know how much energy different appliances use • How to save energy • How to use a switchable power strip • How to make a safe plug avoiding power accidents • How to make a safe fire that does not produce a lot of smoke • How to use a kettle the right way • How to use a stove in the most energy efficient way This was a huge success! The domestic workers were very, very excited by the event. They asked for more activities of this kind. Principle 7-9: Environment Develco is ISO 14001 certified and supports a precautionary approach to environmental challenges and encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Being a design house, our own local impact on the environment is very limited. We have installed intelligent light control all over the building to ensure that all lights are turned off or dimmed when possible without assailing the working environment of our employees. Our advice on sustainable solutions to our customers is where we can make our greatest impact. We work with environmentally friendly technologies that are low power thus minimizing CO2 emissions. All our products comply with the Directive on the restriction of the use of certain hazardous substances in electrical and electronic equipment (RoHS). Procedures at Develco also comply with WEEE Directive meaning prevention of waste electrical and electronic equipment (WEEE), and in addition, the reuse, recycling and other forms of recovery of such wastes so as to reduce the disposal of waste. We also seek to improve the environmental performance of all operators involved in the life cycle of electrical and electronic equipment, e.g. producers, distributors and consumers and in particular those operators directly involved in the treatment of waste electrical and electronic equipment. Waste from offices are sorted into recyclable (paper, cardboard etc) and not recyclable waste – the different waste types are picked up separately by the authorities for after treatment. Principle 10: Anti-corruption Develco is a design house operating on market conditions. Profitability is a requirement and necessary assumption for our ability to conduct corporate social responsibility. Develco has a long-standing anti-corruption policy stating that corruption or bribery is not acceptable in any form or under any circumstances. Hence Develco is committed to ethical and responsible business practice.
