COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2011 www.creditagricole.rs Contents MESSAGE FROM THE CEO ABOUT THE CRÉDIT AGRICOLE GROUP Profile of Crédit Agricole Group Crédit Agricole Group organisation THE GROUP’S APPROACH TO CSR FReD CSR Group project CRÉDIT AGRICOLE SRBIJA (CAS) CAS Vision of sustainable development PRINCIPLES GOVERNING CSR EFFORTS WITHIN CRÉDIT AGRICOLE SRBIJA Human rights Labour standards Environment Anti-corruption HUMAN RESOURCES The heart of Crédit Agricole Srbija are the employees Valuing talent career management driver RELATIONS WITH CLIENTS AND SUPPLIERS Corporate view Agro view Retail view CAS COMMITTED TO SUPPORTING CHILDREN’S RIGHTS CAS Children’s partner Key CSR projects in 2011 featuring Good Fairy Dobrila Donations EMPLOYEE ENGAGEMENT IN CSR Employee initiatives 2 www.creditagricole.rs Message from the CEO Message from the CEO We are very pleased to publish our second Communication on Progress ( COP) report within the United Nations Global Compact in Serbia. Promoting the ten principles evoked within the framework of human rights, labour standards, environmental protection and anti-corruption is something we, as a Bank are committed to. For us, 2011 was a challenging year but it strengthened our commitment to stay focused and maintain the socially and environmentally responsible approach to our clients and our employees. Our main achievements regarding formalising the process of integrating sustainable development approach into business was a revised Sustainable Development Policy, Environmental Policy Statement and Environmental and Social Due Diligence Checklist designed for companies we do business with. These documents aim to facilitate the gradual implementation of the ten principles in the pores of our business. Sustainable development is a process that requires a continuous and long term commitment. Credit Agricole Srbija has committed to this objective as we have committed to respecting our obligations in an ethical and accountable manner while respecting our clients and our employees. In 2011 we have started with the organized collection of paper within the Bank and we do it via SWIFT – Sustainable Waste Management Initiative that employs Roma as a vulnerable population. Dedicated to advocating inclusive communities and ﬁghting poverty by supporting inclusive projects for the vulnerable population, we are the most active in supporting children’s rights. Our long-term projects with partner companies and our mascot, Good Fairy Dobrila, are all aimed at raising public awareness regarding children with special needs and socially vulnerable children. As a response to these efforts, each year we have more employees who are actively involved in volunteering projects and more companies that join us in our initiatives. The examples presented in this report are all concrete illustrations of our accomplishments in this area in 2011. Baldomero VALVERDE CEO 3 www.creditagricole.rs Profile of Crédit Agricole Group Profile of Crédit Agricole Group GLOBAL PRESENCE Eastern Europe FTEs: 10,744 Western Europe 12,3% FTEs: 65,506 Middle East 74,9% FTEs: 288 0,3% Africa FTEs: 7,371 Americas 6,1% FTEs: 1960 2,3% Crédit Agricole Group is the leading full-service retail bank in France and one of the major banking groups in Europe. Serving the real economy, Crédit Agricole Group supports the projects of its customers in all retail banking business lines and associated specialised businesses. The new slogan, “Le bon sens a de l’avenir” (the bank of common sense ), reafﬁrms Crédit Agricole’s values and commitment. It places the satisfaction and interests of its 54 million customers, 1.2 million shareholders, 6.5 million mutual shareholders and 160,000 employees at the heart of its activities. With its cooperative and mutual foundations, Crédit Agricole pursues a resolute policy of social and environmental responsibility. This is reﬂected in an improvement process for customers, employees and the environment, backed up by detailed indicators. A bank serving 54 million customers • 3 domestic markets: France, Italy, Greece • 11,600 branches in 13 countries • Present in 70 countries A player committed to servicing the economy • Signature of the United Nations Global Compact and the Climate Principles • Adoption of the Equator Principles by Crédit Agricole Corporate and Investment Bank • Signature of the Principles for Responsible Investment by Amundi, Crédit Agricole Cheuvreux and Crédit Agricole Assurances 5 www.creditagricole.rs Profile of Crédit Agricole Group Crédit Agricole Group Organisation Organisation of Crédit Agricole Group and Crédit Agricole S.A. The Crédit Agricole Group includes Crédit Agricole S.A. , all the Regional and Local Banks, and their subsidiaries 6.5 million mutual Crédit Agricole’s shareholders Fédération Nationale 2.531 Local Banks 39 Regional Banks Together holding, via SAS Float Rue La Boétie,a controlling Including treasury shares interests in Crédit AgricoleS.A. 25% 56,2% 43,8% Crédit Agricole S.A. RETAIL BANKS SPECIALIST BUSINESS CORPORATE AND LINES INVESTMENT BANKING Crédit Agricole Regional Specialized financial services: Banks (25% of each CA Consumer Finance, Regional Bank) CA CIB CA Leasing & Factoring LCL Internal retail and banking: Asset managment, insurance and private banking: Cariparma Group, Emporiki, CA Assurances, Amundi, Crédit du Maroc, CA Egypt, CA Bank Polska CA Private Banking Specialised businesses and subsidiaries: Crédit Agricole Capital Investissement & Finance, Crédit Agricole Immobillier, Uni Éditions, Cedicam 6 www.creditagricole.rs The Group’s approach to CSR The Group’s approach to CSR FReD CSR Group project In accordance with the guidelines laid down in the Group Project launched at the end of 2010, which emphasised corporate social responsibility (CSR) as one of its strategic priorities, Crédit Agricole S.A. has implemented its own CSR approach, known as FReD. FReD, stands for Fides (trust), Respect and Demeter (the earth goddess). FReD's purpose is to promote these three concepts, and to confer tangible meaning to economic, social and environmental responsibility. Between them, they cover the entire scope of CSR action. FReD is a portfolio of 150 actions split equally between the three CSR pillars, mobilising almost 70,000 employees in the ten main entities of Crédit Agricole S.A. Fides covers the economic side of CSR, and includes all of the Group's responsibilities towards its customers: commitments in respect of economic responsibility, exemplarity in respect of regulatory compliance and banking ethics (fight against fraud, ethics, fight against market abuse, financial security, etc.). Respect unites social commitments: respect of human rights in the Group’s activities and spheres of influence, identified in the Charter signed by Crédit Agricole S.A. and its subsidiaries (acknowledgment of employees, diversity, gender equality, work safety, social dialogue and participation, territorial involvement, etc.). Demeter embraces environmental actions. Commitments in respect of the environment include the Group’s energy and paper consumption, the implementation of new green products and the progressive inclusion of environmental criteria in all financing activities. FReD is Crédit Agricole S.A. ’s improvement tool in respect of CSR matters. It is an innovative approach, being decentralised, collaborative and dynamic. All entities are involved, and put together their own action plans. FReD accordingly meets two complementary purposes: first, by providing the entities with a single framework allowing them to formalise their action plans; second, by measuring progress achieved, thereby facilitating an assessment of the Group’s social performance. Each action plan has a timetable and a budget, as well as governance, detailed targets and indicators. Every year, an index showing the Group’s overall progress will be calculated. The FReD index will determine the compensation of the Group’s Executive Management, signifying that CSR performances are just as strategic as operating income. The Group has also chosen to focus its actions in 2011 around the acronym FReD: Fides: fraud, customer interest , ethics, market stability , financial security; Respect: recognition, equality, safety, participation, equity,consistency, territory; Demeter: dialogue, externalities, markets, ecosystems, transport, energy, resources. 8 www.creditagricole.rs The Group’s approach to CSR In 2011, Crédit Agricole S.A. also transformed its sustainable development mission into a Sustainable Development department. It is part of the General Secretariat. The creation of this department, tasked with promoting, coordinating and monitoring the successful implementation of corporate social responsibility in all areas, symbolises the strategic nature of these topics for the Group. Moreover, the improvement process pursued by the Group in recent years received further acknowledgement in 2011, with Crédit Agricole S.A. share’s maintenance or inclusion in social responsibility indices. It is part of several extra-financial benchmark indices: ASPI Eurozone since 2004, FTSE4Good since 2005, Dow Jones Sustainability Index (DJSI) since 2008 and Stoxx® Global ESG Leaders since 2011. In addition to the information contained in this chapter, which relates to the social and environmental information required under the implementing decree of France’s New Economic Regulations Act (NRE), other information will be available in the sustainable development section of the Group’s website. Lastly, Crédit Agricole S.A. has asked the sustainable development experts of one of the Group’s audit firms to review the procedures for collecting environmental and social data, as well as certain information published in this part of the management report and on the dedicated website. Details of this work and the associated certification are included in the “Analyst area” section of the Group’s sustainable development website. 9 www.creditagricole.rs Crédit Agricole Srbija Crédit Agricole Srbija CAS Vision of sustainable development Crédit Agricole Srbija’s activities have an impact on those of its stakeholders personal, business and institutional clients, employees – and on society as a whole. Promoting sustainable development within CAS therefore helps to promote sustainable development in society and in every local community where it operates. This vision is reﬂected in our by-line “the bank of common sense” and in the fact that sustainability is ﬁrmly embedded in our mission, purpose and values. On a business level, acting as a responsible, ethical and professional bank means making sure that we have the means to fulﬁll our role in ﬁnancing the real economy. On a social and environmental level, we set two priority objectives: combating all forms of exclusion and developing a more responsible and resources aware business environment. Our priority objectives are translated into an action plan for 2012: 1. Strengthen the Bank’s responsibility culture 2. Incorporate sustainable development into business process via FReD, Group sustainability project 3. Raise awareness regarding the vulnerable and minority groups of children by implementing philanthropy initiatives that include volunteers in every region where we operate The emerging sustainable responsibility culture is based on a strong commitment, constructive dialogue with the regulators and a concept of compliance that goes well beyond the minimum legal and regulatory requirements, but also training employees in CSR and encouraging their engagement in sustainable development initiatives. In Retail Banking it means putting CSR considerations at the very heart of our approach to clients: welcoming, listening to and providing advice to our clients, supporting them in their projects, and especially in agribusiness, offering special products. It also means directing our energy at speciﬁc actions that will beneﬁt our clients by creating socially responsible products that ease the burden of the current ﬁnancial crisis. Principles governing CSR efforts within Crédit Agricole Srbija Crédit Agricole Srbija supports the United Nations Global Compact by being an active member of Global Compact UN in Serbia. The principles set out in the Global Compact are regarded as the basic principles that guide the policies within the Bank. 11 www.creditagricole.rs Crédit Agricole Srbija Human rights 1. Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. 2. make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Within Crédit Agricole Srbija, this translates to actions: • Promoting inclusive business surroundings strengthened by Code of Conduct • Celebrating and promoting individual successes of Crédit Agricole employees in a visible way via internal communication magazine • Connecting with clients in difﬁcult ﬁnancial situations and ﬁnding the best solutions for their ﬁnancial troubles without invading their dignity or quality of reasonable standards of living • Networking with companies interested in promoting human rights locally and contributing to ﬁnding better solutions for socially and mentally vulnerable groups of children and thus actively promoting children’s rights through sustainable CSR projects: Magic Breakfast, Christmas Shoebox, Christmas and Easter Bazaar • Policy and Code of Practice on Equal Opportunities and Diversity has been composed CAS plans to do the following: We will continue to implement the principles of inclusive surroundings within the Bank and foster good working relations and teamwork We will continue to stay alert regarding our clients with ﬁnancial difﬁculties and promote the best solutions in line with the principles of respecting human rights We will continue to network with companies to contribute to ﬁnding solutions regarding socially vulnerable minority groups, socially vulnerable groups of children and children with special needs We will continue to reach out to the local authorities and the business sector and network in order to promote the idea of inclusive society for the children with special needs We will implement the Policy and Code of Practice on Equal Opportunities and Diversity We will continue to educate employees about these issues using CA Info, internal magazine and also by continuously organising either charity or volunteering events for employees We will continue investing in and fostering the partnerships with NGO’s that support our long term aims of promoting children’s rights, ﬁghting poverty and hunger and promoting inclusive society. 12 www.creditagricole.rs Crédit Agricole Srbija Labour standards 3. Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining, 4. the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour, 5. the effective abolition of child labour, and 6. the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Within Crédit Agricole Srbija, this translates to actions: • improving and maintaining working conditions within Crédit Agricole Srbija that are in compliance with the above mentioned principles of the Global Compact and with current legislation and regulations • actively considering labour standards, when engaging in business, and avoiding engagement in any business that disregard labour standards set out in the Global Compact • providing more than legislative obligation described in the Labour Law in the ﬁeld of number of vacation days, meal and transportation allowances, paid leaves and special ﬁnancial aids in socially or medically vulnerable situations when they occur to our employees • appropriate trainings for dedicated staff members regarding safety at work, emergency situations management and crisis health management • procedures regarding the employees’ right to be informed and protected which include security trainings in the ﬁeld of data protection, and the information sharing through the intranet and various channels of internal communication in a bilingual (Serbian and English) manner. CAS plans to do the following: continue providing relevant information to all employees continue with the ﬁnancial aids to employees in socially or medically vulnerable situations continue the existing trainings in the ﬁeld of the employees’ safety and protection continue with the trainings which are aimed at employee’s skills improvement and development as well as knowledge sharing between sectors and departments. 13 www.creditagricole.rs Crédit Agricole Srbija Environment 7. Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges, 8. undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility, and 9. encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Within Crédit Agricole Srbija this translates to actions: • actively promoting greater environmental responsibility in relation to Crédit Agricole Srbija’s conducting business in a manner that considers opportunities and risks from an environmental perspective, e.g. loans and investments in Agro business line this includes climate change and related risks • being aware of global environmental issues and Crédit Agricole Srbija’s opportunities to have both a direct and indirect impact. These initiatives resulted in further shrinking of the car pool, scheduling meetings via video-conferences or telephone conferences, encouraging travelling together to meetings using one car, encouraging using public transport, saving electricity and paper at the Bank level by encouraging rational spending and avoiding unnecessary printing of documents • establishing collection of used paper in Belgrade and Novi Sad by SWIFT recycling company supported by WHO that employs Roma employees and thus helping the inclusion of this minority group into social mainstream • creating two new documents – Environmental Policy Statement and Environmental and Social Due Diligence Checklist for companies we do business with CAS plans to do the following: continue with the collection of paper for recycling in Belgrade and Novi Sad continue using recycled IT equipment, toner cartridges continue with raising awareness regarding resources like electricity, water, gas and the necessity of their use in a reasonable way establish a cost-cutting project for collecting ideas of employees 14 www.creditagricole.rs Crédit Agricole Srbija Anti-corruption 10. Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Within Crédit Agricole Srbija this translates to actions: • working actively against corruption and bribery in accordance with the Group’s Ethics Policy, • working actively against money laundering and terrorist ﬁnancing in accordance with the Group’s Anti-Money Laundering and Anti-Terrorist Financing Policy • respecting and strictly monitoring the implementation of the Code of Conduct • respecting the rules regarding choosing suppliers by going through the process of a very detailed Tender Policy • respecting the rules of transparent and detailed budget records with all the supporting documentation verifying the origin of the goods and services • respecting and implementing the procedure for AML and FT and based on the Law of Serbia and FIDES II Rules of the CA Group, the actions and preventive measures against money laundering and terrorism ﬁnancing are at the highest standards CAS plans to do the following: continue to receive recommendations and trainings from the Compliance Department implement the new FIDES II rules of the CA Group regarding anti-corruption continue to train and test the KYC (Know Your Client) procedure, Code of Conduct and Anti-Fraud regulations. continue to implement and test information protection within the Bank 15 www.creditagricole.rs Human Resources Human Resources The heart of Crédit Agricole Srbija are the employees Number of employees in CAS has been optimised over the years. After a careful analyses of the number and location of branch ofﬁces and also after the job analyses per position it was concluded that optimisation was very successful and allowed for more productive and client-focused approach. 1002 Headcount 2009-2011 963 931 2009 2010 2011 In 2010 average work experience was 10 years. The average for women was 10,41 and 9,47 years for men. In 2011 average work experience was increased approximately for one year and it was 11,1 years for women, and 9,81 years for men. At the same time average work experience in the Bank was 11 years. 31.12.2010 31.12.2011 WORK EXPERIENCE (IN YEARS) Female Male Total Female Male Total <1 13 6 19 2 6 8 1-5 190 118 308 131 84 215 6-10 210 137 347 251 149 400 11-15 66 43 109 73 45 118 16-20 52 13 65 52 15 67 21-25 38 21 59 32 22 54 26-30 28 13 41 37 13 50 30+ 12 3 15 14 5 19 TOTAL 609 354 963 592 339 931 AVERAGE 10.41 9.47 10 11.1 9.81 11 This result shows that the majority of employees entered the bank with little experience, and most employees are between 1 and 10 years of work experience (623 employees). 17 www.creditagricole.rs Human Resources 400 400 350 300 Employees per years of service at the Bank 31.12.2011 250 215 200 150 118 100 67 54 50 50 19 8 0 <1 1-5 6-10 11-15 16-20 21-25 26-30 30+ Years of Service According to Gender 31.12.2011 30+ 14 5 26-30 37 13 Female 21-25 32 22 Male 16-20 52 15 11-15 73 42 6-10 251 149 1-5 131 84 <1 2 6 300 250 200 150 100 50 0 50 100 150 200 Gender and age structure in 2010 and 2011 Majority of bank employees are woman, and they represent almost two-thirds of all Bank employees. 36% Synthesis by Gender Female Male 64% 18 www.creditagricole.rs Human Resources In 2010 average age of employees was 35 years, and it was the same for both genders. In 2011 average age of employees was 36 years; also as in 2010 average age was the same for woman and men. AGE MAKEUP OF PERSONNEL 31.12.2010 31.12.2011 AGE IN YEARS Female Male Total Female Male Total Age < 29 150 54 204 100 38 138 30 < A < 39 309 230 539 332 228 560 40 < A < 49 96 51 147 102 48 150 50 < A < 59 53 18 71 56 24 80 60 < A 1 1 2 2 1 3 Total 609 354 963 592 339 931 Average 35 35 35 36 36 36 Most employees in the Bank are between 30 and 39 years, with in total 432 women under 39 years. This is the reason for the large numbers of maternity leaves. Any woman on maternity leave is replaced by an employee with a temporarily based contract, until she returns from maternity leave. Age makeup of personnel according to gender (31.12.2010) 60 < A 2 1 Male 50 < A < 59 56 24 Female 40 < A < 49 102 48 30 < A < 39 332 228 Age < 29 100 38 350 250 150 50 0 50 150 250 350 Allocation to branch network vs. supportive and managerial functions 67% of all employees are allocated in front ofﬁce (Branch Network, Corporate & Agriculture) 33% Allocation to Jobs Back Office Front Office 67% 19 www.creditagricole.rs Human Resources Educational structure breakdown The level of education of our employees is high, with 52% of population with University degree, and also 3% are holders of postgraduate degrees. 17% are holders of higher-school degree (one level under university degree), and 28% of employees are holders of high-school degrees 0% 3% Educational Level 28% Up to Secondary School High School Graduates College Graduates University Degree Graduates Doctorate Masters 52% 17% If we break down this analysis per gender, most of our employees are holders of university degree, with female majority (283 women and 196 men with university degree) Level of Education According to Gender (31.12.2010) Post Graduates 14 13 Male University Degree Graduates 285 194 Female College Graduates 117 43 High School Graduates 176 87 Up to Secondary School 2 300 200 100 0 100 200 300 VOLUNTARY OUTGOING FLOW OF PERMANENT STAFF ACCORDING TO GENDER VOLUNTARY OUTGOING FLOW 2010 2011 OF PERMANENT STAFF Male Female Total Male Female Total Resignations 18 19 37 14 17 31 Retirement and early retirement 1 0 1 0 2 2 Other reasons 0 0 0 1 0 1 Voluntary Outgoing flows of active permanent 19 19 38 15 19 34 workforce * Voluntary turnover in 2011 was 4,06%. 20 www.creditagricole.rs Human Resources Valuing talent career management driver During 2011 special emphasis was placed on improving processes for identifying high-potential managers, including an assessment of managerial performance and preparations for the long-term succession of managers. Individual career planning of 30 high-potential managers included a dynamic process of career development via trainings, seminars and conferences in order to remain close and attentive to employees’ needs. Individualised programmes are tailor-made to suit the particular need of every manager for developing certain skills and bringing them to the next level. Local training programmes The local training programmes are at the heart of the ongoing development within each business line. The pool of internal trainers supports the priorities in training for each business line very successfully and assists in building advanced business skills for speciﬁc business related areas. The ratio of internal vs external trainings has, therefore, reached 75% vs 25% in 2011 Type of Trainings Internal Trainings 75% External Trainings 25% The training approach combines practical interactive approach with testing approach afterwards to ensure the level of clarity in the delivery phase of each training. The local trainings are mainly conducted at the Training Centre in Stara Pazova which can accommodate 50 participants at a time. Employee’s concerns actively taken on board via Employee Engagement Survey Since 2010 Crédit Agricole has asked its employees to respond to the Employee Engagement Survey. It aims to analyse how employees view the business, its values, training and development opportunities, brand perception, customer focus and communication. The survey results are of great value for further improvement in the surveyed areas whereas the actual improvements of business perception and communication, also overall satisfaction with the job and the environment are evidence that management is listening, consulting and providing the right direction. 21 www.creditagricole.rs Human Resources Protecting employees’ health Crédit Agricole’s occupational health policy goes beyond simply complying with the changing legislative requirements. The major component of the policy is the prevention of health risks for employees over 40 and special check ups for managers. Every employee over 40 is given the beneﬁt of free check up at the local clinic where the most common stress related diseases are checked against. Prevention is therefore the course of action at Crédit Agricole Srbija. Every employee in Crédit Agricole Srbija is additionally insured against accident and illness while managers have a special beneﬁt to check their health status at the private clinic and treat themselves there for 12 months within the range of services that were agreed. ‘FIRST CHANCE’ 2011 Open Competition of the National Employment Agency The programme of the National Employment Agency called First Chance, designed to give practical and educational knowledge and an opportunity to work in well established companies to trainees, who have graduated from various universities in Serbia was introduced for the second time. A short conversation with a new Trainee, Dušan Beronja, best illustrates his ﬁrst impressions at the job A couple of months have passed since you started working. What are your work expriences compared to what you initially imagined? My impressions are more than positive and my expectations are completely fulﬁlled. I work in the SBE sector and my position is Financial Analyst Trainee. I learn something new every day. Dušan Beronja 22 www.creditagricole.rs Human Resources What do you like most at work? I like the most the working environment and the friendly attitude of people around me as well as their readiness to help in any moment. I also like the dynamics of work, the non-routine because every credit case is a case for itself. In every case I learn something new. What do you think your biggest challenge will be? Every concrete loan for credit initiates a separate analysis. Every case is individual and speciﬁc by itself. By getting more and more demanding and ﬁnancially more signiﬁcant requests for loans, the ﬁnancial analysis is becoming more complex and deﬁnitely more elaborate. I hope that in time, by getting more advanced in profession, I will be ready to work on big loan requests. How did you fit into the existing teams you work with? Great!!! Colleagues from sector and from other ofﬁces are more than pleasant, smiling and ready to explain everything that I might ﬁnd as an obstacle for doing a good work. Giving a chance to educated, ambitious people to work in a Bank is a good practice Crédit Agricole wishes to continue in the future as well. Dušan with colleagues from the Sector 23 www.creditagricole.rs Relations with Clients and Suppliers Relations with Clients and Suppliers Corporate view Crédit Agricole Srbija Corporate Division – Providing strong ﬁnancial support to top corporate clients-both domestic and international • Well organized network consisting of 80 branches, 3 specialized corporate centers, in all major Serbian cities, specially designed to satisfy all of our corporate clients' needs and demands. Corporate center Belgrade Corporate center Novi Sad Corporate center Niš • ISO 9001 Certiﬁcate in the ﬁeld of banking services • Strong and realistic ambitions to provide the highest level of service possible to our corporate clients • Dynamic and proactive development • 39 highly qualiﬁed employees within the Corporate division with only one common goal – providing top-quality service to all of our corporate clients • Highly modernized and efﬁcient approach • Principal membership in VISA International, DinaCard association, MasterCard International 25 www.creditagricole.rs Relations with Clients and Suppliers • Cooperation with EIB, EBRD, IFC as means of providing the best possible ﬁnancial support under the most convenient conditions for our corporate clients • Cross-selling with retail division • Special campaigns with very competitive prices • Offering a full, top quality range of service to our clients – POS terminals, ATMs, Electronic banking, Business cards-credit and debit, Collective order, M-payments Strong foundation in Crédit Agricole S.A. • Retail bank leader in France (No. 1) and in Europe (No. 2) • 11,600 branches worldwide, with an efﬁcient and ever-growing presence in all areas of banking and ﬁnance • More than 160,000 employees • 54 million customers in 70 countries. Primary goal: Clients’ satisfaction with our products and services CASH MANAGEMENT TRADE FINANCE CREDIT Domestic & International Payments Letter of Guarantees S/T corporate Loans Electronic Banking and Internet Services Letter of Credits L/T Loans Collective order ZEN Collection Subsidized Loans Collective order – Direct Debit DEALING ROOM CREDIT AGRICOLE Foreign Exchange Spot GROUP SYNERGY International Banking tenders Foreign Exchange Forward Outrigh RELATIONSHIP MANAGER Joint approach to the client with Senior Foreign Exchange Covered Forward Bankers – CA CIB Synergy with CA CIB, BDI subsidiaries, and Deposits products other members of the Group LEASING TAILOR MADE CROSS Financial leasing SELLING PRODUCTS From Agro business – Tripartite agreement Rent (via partners) Corporate Employee Program Private Label Card System Loyalty Program Mobile Payments High organizational level ensuring fast responsiveness and highest possible quality of service for all segments within the Corporate&Agriculture division 26 www.creditagricole.rs Relations with Clients and Suppliers CORPORATE AND AGRO DIVISION COVERAGE PRODUCTS AND SUPPORT Agriculture Large International Special Commercial and 1 Agro SME RM Accounts Unit Products SME Head and institutional 6 RMs Industrial 1CA 2RM Management 1AO Business Business International Sales 1RM Manager Center Belgrade 1 Center Belgrade 2 1AO 1 1 CA Operational 2 CAs Large,Middle Market Marketing 2 RMs 2 RMs 3 AOs and institutionals 1 2RM 2AO Trade Finance Business Business Officer Center Novi Sad Center Belgrade 1 2RMs 1 Manager 1AO 1 Officer 1CA Legend: Corporate RM Relationship Manager Business Center Niš Center Novi Sad AO Account Officer 1RM 1 Manager CA Credit Analyst 1CA SME 3 Business centers positioned in Belgrade, Novi Sad & Niš 8 SME Relationship Managers + professional supporting teams focus on constant upgrading of level of service provided to top SMEs around the country MLCI Dedicated International Desk Full support of the renowned Crédit Agricole Group 1 centralized team positioned in Belgrade 8 professionals 3 LCI Relationship Managers + professional supporting team increasing penetration rate, focusing on top-rated large and international clients Corporate Centers providing full-time quality support to all of the corporate clients’ day-to-day business activities 1 center in Novi Sad and 1 center in Belgrade 3 professionals 27 www.creditagricole.rs Relations with Clients and Suppliers Clients Coverage teams corporate and agro CASA, CACIB BO functions Cash Management Sales Management Consulting Client portfolio Management Product development Products Reporting and MIS International CM tenders BO support communication Commercial and Product Management Sector Trade Finance Operational Marketing Commercial Consulting Market research and reporting Product development BO support communication Credit Products Other Products and projects Product development Group related projects CA Hub Optim net Strategic projects Client related projects Providing professional support to Corporate and Agriculture division in Products management (Cash management, Trade ﬁnance, Credit products) Commercial (Sales management, Operational marketing) 54% Corporate and Agriculture division gender structure Male Female 46% Balance between the number of male and female employees Young, ambitious and driven team, with solid academic background and full dedication towards achieving the Group's common goals 28 www.creditagricole.rs Relations with Clients and Suppliers CA Srbija Corporate Team : Clear vision, path, goals and values Crédit Agricole Serbia has deﬁned clear objectives, guided by its customer-satisfaction driven ambitions and long term goals established by the Group. • We are looking to add value not only to our corporate partners’ businesses, but also to the overall Serbian economy. We aim to continue to be our existing clients’ ﬁrst choice for all of their banking needs, as well as engage into cooperation with new ones. • Our principal guidelines are based on providing the highest level of service to our clients, making sure that each request is dealt with within the most optimal time frame, with as much attention as possible, while ﬁnding the most convenient solution for the client. • We are constantly striving towards providing a wide range of tailor made products and services to our corporate clients, matching the diversiﬁed needs of their respective businesses. • The corporate values deeply embedded within each employee’s operative framework are proactivity, integrity, effectiveness, solidarity and teamwork. • The principles adopted and embedded in our corporate division’s daily operations are: utmost and unconditional respect for human rights, ﬁght against any form of corruption, optimal labor standards and socially responsible behavior towards all of our stakeholders. All of these principles are respected and implemented within our organizational structure, client and employee relations, risk management, social activity policies. Corporate goals sustainable growth without losing focus on providing the best service possible to our clients • Continual growth, outperforming the market while at the same time remaining loyal to the Group’s core values and principles • Further acceleration of acquisition of top clients – gaining trust by providing the best possible service • To continue with unique campaigns for corporate and agriculture clients, offering possibilities to ﬁnance both short and long term deals at the most competitive prices on the market • Increase brand recognition • Continuation of cooperation with top ﬁnancial organizations such as EIB, IFC and EBRD, in order to provide the best possible deals for our clients • To improve proactivity and reporting for intraday transactions with treasury sales desk • Implement incentives policy, rewarding the hard work put in by our dedicated professionals, further motivating them to maintain the highest possible service to our clients • Continue with Cross selling campaign, expanding the top service level of our corporate and agriculture professionals to other divisions of the bank • Continue relying on the strong foundation provided by the Crédit Agricole Group 29 www.creditagricole.rs Relations with Clients and Suppliers Growth and strengthening of the Group synergies Business parts of the Crédit Agricole S.A. Group are BDI, CA CIB & Caisse Regional. In 2011 we were able to further leverage the CA brand, maintain strong Group support and an exceptional level of organization within the CAS network in order to raise the quality of the service offered to our corporate clients. Listening to the clients, providing what they need and reacting swiftly to the market’s constantly-changing and competitive environment is our priority in 2012 as well. Partnerships Creating new partnerships and upgrading existing ones with renowned organizations that provide overall beneﬁts to all of the stakeholders is a long-term aim in Crédit Agricole Srbija. This year, we have continued a tradition of more than successful partnership with top ﬁnancial organizations (EIB, EBRD, IFC), Ministry of Agriculture, sponsoring the Agriculture fair in Novi Sad, as well as successful cooperation via various campaigns and Agilor long channel with top dealers of agro mechanization – Agropanonka, Res Trade, Interagrar, Almex and Matijevic Crédit Agricole Srbija in a competitive environment Methodology: • Customer Satisfaction Study (CSS); • Computer Aided Telephone Interviewing (CATI); Sample: • 50 corporate clients of Crédit Agricole Key points of the Customer Satisfaction Study • In general, corporate sector’s clients are very satisﬁed with Crédit Agricole Bank. Satisfaction remained on the same level in comparison to last year. • Also, bank client satisfaction has very well balanced structure: except in relations with the bank satisfaction and communication satisfaction, trend of slight improvement has been recorded in all other dimensions. • Corporate clients are most satisﬁed with branch, products and offer. 30 www.creditagricole.rs Relations with Clients and Suppliers Agro Sector View Crédit Agricole S.A. – No. 1 bank for farmers. More than 120 years of experience in crediting of agricultural production, providing a strong and invaluable support to all of its subsidiaries-including Crédit Agricole Serbia. New, modernized, and functional approach towards the organization of Agro Sector, designed to fully and efﬁciently service all of the existing/new clients Agro SBE (small business HEAD OF DEPARTMENT Agro SME (small and and enterpreneurs)team medium enterprises)team COMMERCIAL GROUP LEADERSUPERVISOR/ AGRO SME RELATIONSHIP MANAGER RELATIONSHIP MANAGER 5 AGRO SBE RELATIONSHIP ACCOUNT OFFICER/ MANAGERS SHARE WITH SME CREDIT ANALYST 1 Agilor Relationship Manager Subotica Kikinda, 1 Novi Bečej Sombor, Apatin Vrbas Bečej 3 Bačka Palanka Zrenjanin 5 Novi Sad 2 Šid Inđija Vršac Sr.emska Mitrovica Ruma Stara Pančevo 6 4 Pazova Strong foundation in Crédit Agricole S.A. which ﬁnances more than 70 % of the French farming market and more than 40 % of the food production industry. The Group attains a principal economic role not just in French, but also Europe’s farming industry, automatically presenting a competitive advantage for all of its subsidiaries. Experience on the Group level, solid organization and high level of professionalism enable us to efﬁciently monitor market trends, ﬂexibly respond to our clients’ diverse needs and demands, as well as offer highly competitive conditions for our products and services. Crédit Agricole Serbia Sustainable growth with strong emphasis on client satisfaction, products and services portfolio diversiﬁcation, ﬂexibility, building long lasting business relationships 31 www.creditagricole.rs Relations with Clients and Suppliers Our main pillar: offering a long term strategy to the Serbian agro-market, with added value to all of the stakeholders involved. Crédit Agricole Srbija has experienced relationship managers with great knowledge of the market, enabling them to offer each client the best, ﬂexible, tailor made solution, depending on their respective needs. We are looking to build long lasting partnerships with our clients, founded on respect, trust, ﬂexibility, dedication and commitment. Moreover, we are operating with dedicated and professional supporting teams, forming a cohesive unit with the relationship managers-all with a common goal of providing the highest level of service to our agro clients. The values deeply embedded within each employee’s operative framework are proactive approach, integrity, effectiveness, solidarity and teamwork. The principles adopted and embedded within every segment of our agro sector’s daily operations are utmost and unconditional respect towards the basic human rights, ﬁght against the corruption, optimal labor standards, socially responsible behavior towards all of our stakeholders. All of these principles are respected and implemented within our organizational structure, client and employee relations, risk management, social activity policies. Products and services resulting from listening to clients in 2011 Pioneers in the market: best prices and top service to our clients • Introduction of Agilor, a new and revolutionary concept in the Serbian market. Agilor represents a long-channel in ﬁnancing of agricultural mechanization. Its basic concepts are already used at a very high success rate within the CA group. CA Srbija’s professionals have worked at an extra-high pace in order to implement Agilor within our concept of agricultural banking, already showing signiﬁcant results and providing more than solid foundations for the future. Thanks to the successful implementation of Agilor, our agro clients have no need at all to come to the bank in order to obtain credit support for purchasing of agricultural mechanization. Very conveniently priced loans for tractors, harvesters and other equipment are now available to our clients at the dealers’ business premises. We have signed deals on cooperation with the top dealers of agricultural mechanization in the country, enabling our new and existing clients to ﬁnish the complete loan-granting procedure at the above mentioned dealers’ business premises, and eliminating a need for going to the bank. The clients submit the necessary documentation to the specially trained dealers’ employee, and receive a ﬁnal decision on loan approval within a very short time period. CA Srbija is the unique provider of such service in the Serbian market, proving once again that customer satisfaction comes ﬁrst. • Special campaigns for corporate and agro clients, during which the clients are presented with a unique opportunity to ﬁnance their working capital/investments/ﬁxed assests at the most competitive conditions on the market • Special agro loans for land purchase, presenting our clients with an opportunity to obtain ﬁnancial support for agricultural land and thus permanently upgrade its agro business, by expanding the max. loan maturity to 12 years. In this way, we have further added to the ﬂexibiliy of our client’s loan repayment, once again keeping up with the market demand. • Successful continuation of cooperation with the Ministry of Agriculture, being one of the top banks on the market in terms of amount of disbursed loans with part of the interest rate subsidised by the Ministry. • Agro Confort account package – another unique product in the market, containing all of the products and services that our clients – agro individual households, might need in their day-to-day operations. In addition to increasing the quality of our service to agro clients we have also allowed them to manage their funds using several services. Besides the standard package, now our agro clients will have access to the accounts related to their agro business. • Visa debit New debit card for special purpose account has been developed, with all the functionality the same like in a PI offer. Purpose of debit card is to allow individual households easier management of their assets on current account. i.e. in the areas where CAS doesn’t have branch they’d be able to withdraw the money via ATM and POS, and pay for goods and services. Once again, we have showed our ﬂexibility, by providing our clients with an opportunity to purchase this card as a products for itself, or as part of Agro Confort package. 32 www.creditagricole.rs Relations with Clients and Suppliers Business cooperation with The Novi Sad Fair in 2011 An important step towards our ambition of deepening the business relations with existing/potential agro clients was the signing of the agreement with The Novi Sad Fair in 2011, making our Bank an official and exclusive partner of the International Agriculture Fair. This cooperation has been established with a main goal of improving the existing conditions for the development of agrobusiness as a key facet of Serbian economy. We will continue to utilize this partnership in order to create a number of successful projects, further establishing our brand and in the process, creating added value for all of the stakeholders involved. During the fair, we organized a very successful conference on ‘’Improving competitiveness as a condition for sustainable development’’, bringing together the know-how and expertise of European specialists with the representatives of the local agro-business. Participants have witnessed a very productive exchange of experiences and information which will in the long-run, strengthen our role as a significant bank-partner of the Serbian agro-business. Crédit Agricole Srbija Agricultural division Customer Satisfaction Survey Methodology: • Customer Satisfaction Study (CSS); • Computer Aided Telephone Interviewing (CATI); Sample: • 50 AGRO clients of Crédit Agricole bank CAS Agro clients satisfaction survey tool for further improvements • Concerning overall Bank satisfaction of Crédit Agricole agro clients, excellent score was achieved in 2011, in comparison with the previous year. The structure of Bank clients’ satisfaction is very well balanced. • Agro clients are most satisfied with the branches, but there is a need to increase satisfaction with branch working hours. Clients are still less satisfied with this business aspect. 33 www.creditagricole.rs Relations with Clients and Suppliers A glimpse into key strategic objectives 2012 • To continue with unique campaigns for agriculture clients, offering possibilities to finance both short and long term deals at the most competitive prices on the market • To increase limit for agribusiness loans, enabling us to respond to growing demands for financing from our top agro clients • Renewal and new tripartite agreements, continuing a highly successful cooperation with the top processing companies in the market • Further development of new and unique product on the Serbian market-Agilor. • Continue and nurture a successful cooperation with the Ministry of Agriculture • Increase brand recognition • Implement incentives policy, rewarding the hard work put in by our dedicated professionals, further motivating them to maintain the highest possible service to our clients • Continue with Cross selling campaign, expanding the top service level of our corporate and agriculture professionals to other divisions of the Bank • Continue relying on the strong foundation provided by the Crédit Agricole Group 34 www.creditagricole.rs Relations with Clients and Suppliers Retail View RETAIL BANKING DIVISION Assistant PI BUSINESS MARKETING AND PRODUCT AND SBE BUSINESS NEGOTIATIONS AND LINE COMMUNICATIONS SERVICES REGIONS CAR FINANCING LINE COLLECTION DEVELOPMENT PI BUSINESS MARKETING AND BRANCH NETWORK SBE CREDIT SPECIAL ACCOUNTS BELGRADE 1 UNIT SBE SUPPORT BRAND MANAGEMENT SERVICE SUPPORT DEPARTMENT ALTERNATIVE CORPORATE PRODUCT SBE COMMERCIAL FIELD SALES CHANNELS COMMUNICATION AND DEVELOPMENT DEPARTMENT BELGRADE 2 COLLECTORS PUBLIC AFFAIRS SBE BUSINESS COMMERCIAL SUPPORT NOVI SAD 1 CALL CENTRE CALL CENTRE DEPARTMENT NOVI SAD 2 LITIGATION DIVISION KRAGUJEVAC ADMINISTRATION SECTOR DEPARTMENT ŠABAC UNIT POSITION NIŠ 1. Number of branch offices: 80 2. Number of Relationship Managers for Private Individuals: 113 Committed approach to clients As our clients are the the main asset of our business, we continuously seek to develop our operations, products and services to enhance the level of their satisfaction and to meet their expectations. Listening to our clients further builds confindence and trust through a committed approach to client satisfaction. 35 www.creditagricole.rs Relations with Clients and Suppliers Our committment is still the same: 1. Listening to clients to better understand their needs 2. Taking a step back to better understand our own behaviour in the business environment 3. Developing meaningful relationships with the clients After the first Client Satisfaction Survey conducted in May 2010 and initial results, we had a clearer picture which areas needed more attention. The second survey, conducted in November 2011 proved that efforts put into improvement of those areas were appreciated by our clients. Customer Satisfaction Survey Results Customer satisfaction survey covered the network of 82 branches and their clients. In 2011, PI clients of Crédit Agricole were slightly more satisfied with the Bank. The structure of satisfaction aspects remained the same in comparison with last year. Clients were mostly satisfied with branches where there was higher satisfaction with courtesy of branch employees, branch exterior/interior, organsiation and professionalism of employees’ appearance. The area that still needs our attention is further communication with clients. Results showed that there were no significant differences in overall satisfaction level with our bank and main competitor’s banks. CAS is sharing the second place among 5 other banks that were used for comparison. SBE sector clients were very satisfied with the Bank. Satisfaction increased compared to 2010. Concerning overall bank satisfaction of Crédit Agricole, Agro clients showed that excellent score was achieved in 2011, in comparison with the previous year. The structure of bank clients satisfaction was very well balanced. In 2011, Corporate sector’s clients were very satisfied with the Bank. Satisfaction remained at the same level in comparison to last year. Also, bank client satisfaction had very well balanced overall structure, except in relations with the bank satisfaction and communication satisfaction. The trend of slight improvement has been recorded in all other dimensions. Corporate clients are most satisfied with the bank products and offer. Client segmentation & Portfolio management In 2011 Client portfolio management was enriched with the Commercial Tool project in order to be fully launched in 2012. Knowledge sharing within the Crédit Agricole Group was the basis for fine tuning of both projects in order to completely satisfy employees who are using it and more importantly, clients who benefit from it. This project aims at better and more substantial communication with the clients in order to genuinely satisfy their needs. 36 www.creditagricole.rs Relations with Clients and Suppliers In 2012 the Commercial Tool Project will be fully implemented throughout our branch network and every branch will receive a personalised approach by getting the training there, on the spot. Small Business Enterprises HEAD OF SBE BUSINESS LINE HEAD OF SBE HEAD OF SBE HEAD OF SBE CREDIT COMMERCIAL BUSINESS SUPPORT DEPARTMENT DEPARTMENT DEPARTMENT Number of SBE Managers: 45 The market situation in the past few years was highly disadvantageous to the segment of SBE clients. When the financial crisis hit hard, among the first to suffer were small business enterprises by shrinking their businesses, letting off people or closing down their entire businesses. High risk was associated with this segment of clients. However, in Crédit Agricole Srbija it was decided to give special attention to this segment of clients because although struggling, they still offer a buffer zone between the big companies and state owned companies and provide jobs for a significant number of people and their families. Recognizing SBE clients’ needs in a difficult market environment Crédit Agricole Srbija has doubled the production towards the segment of Small and Micro SBE clients. Listening to clients and recognizing their real needs, SBE Sector has offered RSD loans for liquidity with the best conditions at the market. The range of products was tailor-made for SBE in a struggling market situation and resulted in much higher client satisfaction with the products than the previous year. Also, the products that enhance business and are free of charge are highly appreciated and they are developed in the segment of card business 37 www.creditagricole.rs CAS committed to supporting Children’s rights CAS committed to supporting children’s rights CAS Children’s partner Crédit Agricole Srbija has chosen to stay committed to supporting children’s rights. Fighting various kinds of exclusion, especially in a difﬁcult ﬁnancial environment, we have realised that it is more than ever important to integrate children and their rights into our core commitments. In the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the United Nations has proclaimed that childhood is entitled to special care and assistance. We strongly believe that every child has the right to a childhood that is not burdened with hunger, poverty and exclusion. Therefore we have extended our partnership with 30 schools with children with special needs in the country trying to help where and when we can. There are more than 5000 children in those 30 schools who solely depend on the state care and we are aware that in a situation when resources are scarce, every little bit can help a great deal. Crédit Agricole Srbija is a bank fully dedicated to helping children with special needs and children in socially vulnerable situations by organising projects that are inclusive, educational and socially relevant because in the long run, they strive towards problem-solving. All our projects for children are long-term ones and there are several components that we especially value: • partnerships with business and NGO sectors • stronger ties to the local communities by connecting with the social services centres in city administrations • building very good relationships with the network of schools for children with special needs around the country • encouraging the employees to participate in projects as volunteers • educating the employees and the citizens about children with special needs • building strong corporate culture and culture of tolerance, respect and dignity within the Bank. 39 www.creditagricole.rs CAS committed to supporting children’s rights Credits to our partners in 2011 METRO Cash & Carry Highly valued and respected business partner in Crédit Agricole Srbija projects: Magic Breakfast Christmas Shoebox Food Bank Serbia Invalulable in logistics and volunteer support in Magic Breakfast and Christmas Shoebox projects City Department of the Efﬁcient and professional support in inviting socially vulnerable children, Social Protection Belgrade children with single parents, children in foster homes, children in safe houses etc. to the event: Christmas Shoebox in Belgrade Red Cross Novi Sad Support in inviting socially vulnerable children to enjoy: Christmas Shoebox in Novi Sad City Department of Support in inviting children from Safe Houses and children with single Social Protection Niš parents to enjoy: Christmas Shoebox in Niš Sava Centar For giving the big conference hall that can seat 2000 people for the ChristBelgrade mas play for 1200 children and their parents to enjoy free of charge Novi Sad Fair – For giving the premises free of charge to use for the theatre play and Novosadski sajam Christmas presents for 200 children and their parents to enjoy Balkan Novi Pokret – Suport in creativity – interactive, educational, tailor made theatre play feaTheatre Belgrade turing Good Fairy Dobrila, (Bank’s Good Fairy featuring in every project with children) in each of Christmas Shoebox Schools for children Participants in with special needs Easter and Christmas Bazaar 2011 40 www.creditagricole.rs CAS committed to supporting children’s rights Belgrade region OŠ Boško Buha OŠ Anton Skala OŠ Novi Beograd OŠ S.J. Sirogojno SOŠO Sveti Sava Srednja Zanatska škola SOŠO Stefan Dečanski OŠ Radivoj Popović OŠ Veljko Ramadanović All schools provided teachers volunteers who OŠ NH Dušan Dugalić organised the sales exhibitions in branch ofﬁces OŠ Vožd in the speciﬁed regions OŠ Ljubomir Aćimović OŠ Dragan Kovačević All schools provided children’s arts and crafts for sale Vojvodina region All schools provided warm, patient and professional teachers who educated our clients and emŠOSO Milan Petrović – NoviSad ployees about the children in participant-schools SOŠO Žarko Zrenjanin Subotica OŠ Heroj Pinki – Bačka Palanka All school-principals embraced the idea of a proOŠ 6. Oktobar – Kikinda ject that helps their schools in reaching out into ŠOSO Mara Mandić Pančevo the community ŠOSO Vuk Karadžić Sombor ŠOSO Jelena Varjaški Vršac Niš region Specijalna škola “Bubanj” Niš ŠOSO 14. oktobar Niš ŠOSO Mladost Pirot ŠOSO 11. oktobar Leskovac Čačak region ŠOSO 1. Novembar Čačak 41 www.creditagricole.rs CAS committed to supporting children’s rights Key CSR projects in 2011 featuring Good Fairy Dobrila Magic Breakfast In 2011 there were two Magic Breakfasts charity events organised with partners METRO Cash & Carry and Food Bank. Naturally, Good Fairy Dobrila called Vila Dobrila, the mascot of the Bank had her teams ready for all the events. Magic Breakfast – a charity event for children with special needs is running for the second year and with each event we learn more, have more fun and most importantly, raise awareness about children with special needs. The charity promotes buying specially designed packages with the sticker Vila Dobrila and leaving them in crates at the exit of METRO Cash & Carry, while Food Bank collects the packages and distributes them to the schools according to the number of pupils. On 12th March 2011 we organised it in METRO Zemun, Krnjača, and Niš and on 24th September 2011 we organised it in METRO Zemun, Krnjača, Vidikovac, Novi Sad and Subotica. On both occasions we joined forces ﬁrst and foremost with the volunteers of METRO Cash & Carry and Food Bank and then simultaneously with the citizens of towns where there was a charity organised. We all promoted the idea of sharing and giving to the children with special needs who need our help. Every year we try to think of something new that would attract more customers and therefore result in more food packages sold. This year, we invited the cooks from the Cooking Federation to help us. They were happy to prepare special breakfasts with simple food for all the customers who were in a mood for a cooked meal in the morning. Magic Breakfast has found itself in a textbook ’Examples of good practice in public relations 2011’ issued by the Faculty of Technical Sciences in Novi Sad as one of the examples where students can learn how to communicate CSR projects to the public. Three cooks were making magic for the visitors showing how Magic Breakfast can be done And here it istasty, quick and easy to make 42 www.creditagricole.rs CAS committed to supporting children’s rights Magic Breakfast Statistics Crédit Agricole, METRO Cash & Carry and Food Bank collected 11.5 tons of food for children with special needs in 2011 43 www.creditagricole.rs CAS committed to supporting children’s rights Easter Bazaar Feedback: Letters from School Principals Branch ofﬁces of Crédit Agricole Bank in Belgrade, Novi Sad, Subotica, Bačka Palanka, Kikinda, Pančevo, Sombor, Vršac, Niš, Pirot, Leskovac and Gornji Milanovac were hosting Easter Bazaar charity events held between 4 th and 7th April 2011 and organised with the schools for children with special needs. Traditional charity event „Easter Bazaar“ which was simultaneously happening in 20 branch ofﬁces ended just in time for the schools to organise another exhibition for parents, neighborus and friends before Easter. How did the Easter Bazaar end in branch ofﬁces in Crédit Agricole is best illustrated by the comments of school principals: Primary School “Ljubomir Aćimović”, Belgrade “We wish to thank you for the invitation to participate in the Easter Bazaar event and we take this opportunity to let you know how very happy our pupils, their parents and our teachers were because of such a warm welcome received at your Bank. We would like to let you know that the funds from the sold items during the exhibition would be used to ﬁnance a oneday ﬁeld trip for our pupils. We hope to continue a successful cooperation in order to give afﬁrmative support to creative work and expression, social integration and equal opportunities of children with developmental difﬁculties and in this way to contribute to the more fair treatment and lessening of prejudices towards these persons and their families. I would like to use this opportunity to wish great Easter holidays, professional success and good health to the team in the Branch Ofﬁce Credit Agricole Bank in Bulevar Kralja Aleksandra 103 in Belgrade. School Principal Predrag Dacković 44 www.creditagricole.rs CAS committed to supporting children’s rights Primary and Secondary School “14. Oktobar”, Niš “After the end of the Easter Bazaar and all the activities which the School for Primary and Secondary Education, “14. Oktobar“ Niš has had with your Bank, we can conclude an immense satisfaction and pleasure with our cooperation and very big help our School receives from this cooperation. We wish to wholeheartedly thank your colleagues in Niš branch ofﬁces in Obrenovićeva St and at the Bulevar Nemanjića for being such exquisite hosts during the Easter Bazaar and to wish to all your colleagues happy Easter holidays“ School Principal Zoran Nikolić 45 www.creditagricole.rs CAS committed to supporting children’s rights Primary School “Milan Petrović”, Novi Sad We would like to thank you for the warm welcome in your two Novi Sad branch ofﬁces during Easter Bazaar. As in previous years, the most important thing is that we have managed to once again acquaint the public with many work programmes which are done within ŠOSO “Milan Petrović” and even more importantly, we have done it together. Through the sales exhibition we have presented the unique products which originated in work units of Day Care of the Work Centre, had a great time and made valuable contacts which would mean a lot in the future regarding further development of our educational institution. See you at “Magic Breakfast” Once again, thank you for the great organisation and we wish all the empolyees of Crédit Agricole Bank happy Easter holidays. Warm regards Jovan Marković Director of Work Centre, Novi Sad 46 www.creditagricole.rs CAS committed to supporting children’s rights Gift Vouchers Good Fairy Dobrila For all schools that participated in Easter Bazaar we have prepared an end-of-year surprise. In agreement with our partner METRO Cash & Carry we have designed a unique GIFT VOUCHER which was delivered to every school for children with special needs who participated in Easter Bazaar by displaying the children’s arts and crafts. Each voucher by METRO could be used in the nearest METRO Cash & Carry: Zemun, Krnjača, Novi Sad, Niš, Kragujevac, Subotica in the period between 1st to 30th June 2011. One thing we asked the schools to do was to take photographs of the goods they bought in order to share the joy of this purchase with the colleagues, employees of the Bank. The ﬁrst photographs that arrived were from the school 14. Oktobar from Niš. The purchase was done together with the students of the school and we were very glad that in a way, we from Credit Agricole Bank Srbija were included in this, as well as in all other actions, for children with special needs. Students with teachers unloading the trunk full of goods for the school 14. Oktobar, Niš 47 www.creditagricole.rs CAS committed to supporting children’s rights Christmas wreaths at the exhibition in Branch Ofﬁce in Savograd in Belgrade Christmas Bazaar Support to specialised schools for children with disabilities In the period of 12 to 15 December 2011 twenty branch ofﬁces were hosts to the ﬁfth charity event for children with special needs. This time, it was our traditional Christmas Bazaar organised primariliy for our clients, but by no means excluding our colleagues, employees. After the success of the Easter Bazaar 2010, Crédit Agricole charity Bazaar event spread even further on the map, including 25 schools, 20 branch ofﬁces and 12 towns: Belgrade, Novi Sad, Subotica, Kikinda, Bačka Palanka, Sombor, Vršac, Pančevo, Niš, Pirot, Leskovac and Gornji Milanovac. Theme exhibitions of children’s arts and crafts around the country had a primary aim to raise awareness of the children’s problems with integration into the society and their right to express themeselves in a creative and colourful way. As part of their regular curriculum, children have art exercises that enable them to develop ﬁne-motor skills. Our clients are becoming more and more aware of the fact that Crédit Agricole in Srbija is supporting children’s rights and they appreciate the children’s enthusiasm in creating gifts for Christmas. As all previous times, all collected funds from the sales of the children’s products are directed towards schools in order to purchase new materials for the children’s workshops. The Bank will continue to support and expand the projects of children’s integration into the society and remain a trustworthy partner to vulnerable and children with special needs. 48 www.creditagricole.rs CAS committed to supporting children’s rights Christmas Shoebox Sava Centar & Novosadski sajam Crédit Agricole Srbija and the company METRO Cash & Carry Srbija, in cooperation with the Secretariat for Social Protection of the City Administration of the City of Belgrade and NGO Food Bank have organised a charity event Christmas Shoebox, so that children from socially vulnerable families and children without parental care could feel the joy of the holidays and got their Christmas presents together with our message that they are not forgotten or invisible. For 1.100 our little citizens on 6th December 2011 in Sava Center there was a theatre play ’Santa Clause’s Magic Wand’ performed by Balkan Novi Pokret organised for 17 municipalities in Belgrade. Together with the little guests from the Home for children with developmental problems Veternik, they got their Christmas packages after the play. After the play, all the children got thier Christmas pacakges that were prepared for them the two companies Crédit Agricole Srbija and METRO Cash & Carry Srbija. Christmas shoebox and the play where the Santa was a well known actor Slobodan Boda Ninković, on the next day, 7th December was organised in Novi Sad in the Congress Hall of the Novosadski sajam for 200 children. Crédit Agricole Srbija and METRO Cash & Carry Srbija provided 10.000 Euros for purchasing the Christmas gift packages. The charity event was supported in kind by Sava Centar, Novosadski sajam and Coca-Cola HBC Srbija. Christmas shoebox was organised with the media sponsorship of TV Avala and daily paper Politika and Pregled. 49 www.creditagricole.rs CAS committed to supporting children’s rights Collecting Christmas Shoeboxes This year’s traditional charity event Christmas Shoebox started in November 2011 when all employees of the Bank were invited to ﬁll empty shoeboxes with sweets and toys and wrap them nicely for the children who are forgotten by the Santa Claus. Children who are fed at Soup Kitchens are children who live with their parents or foster-parents but because of their very difﬁcult ﬁnancial situation parents are not able to provide food for them. Our idea was that Crédit Agricole Srbija this year as well, takes over the role of the Santa Claus when these forgotten children are concerned.This year’s Christmas shoeboxes were given out in Novi Sad and in Niš, while in Belgrade the children got Christmas pacakges provided by the Bank together with METRO Cash & Carry. Christmas boxes in all shapes and sizes, wonderfully wrapped were ﬂowing into the ofﬁce in Belgrade and the same was happening in Novi Sad and Niš. The collection of the Christmas shoeboxes was well up and running when our new CEO, Mr Baldomero Valverde arrived. Although with us only a couple of days, Mr Valverde joined the humanitarian action with three boxes Giving out the Christmas shoeboxes in the Center for Social Protection in Niš was very nice, spiced with a little story about Santa falling in love with Good Fairy Dobrila and therefore mixing up who to bring the presents to. As it happened, he delivered them to the employees of Crédit Agricole Srbija and METRO Cash & Carry, so they had to re-deliver them to Niš, to the children the boxes were meant to be given in the ﬁrst place. Each of those boxes was wrapped with a lot of love and care and there was packed much more than visible with a naked eye – sincere and warm wishes that children have at least one day in a year when they know they are not forgotten. 50 www.creditagricole.rs CAS committed to supporting children’s rights Donations Food Bank received computers from Crédit Agricole Srbija Food Bank Belgrade (www.bankahrane.org) is a non-governmental, humanitarian organisation founded in late 2006, which works towards diminishing poverty in Serbia and taking part in ﬁght against hunger and food waste. The Food Bank activities are based on the idea of sharing and donations, as well as promoting solidarity amongst the citizens and showing that together we can be in service of those who need our help. Those were the main reasons why Crédit Agricole Srbija chose Food Bank as a partner in events Magic Breakfast and Christmas Shoebox. Successful cooperation is ongoing for two years now and in order to make our colleagues’ work, from an equally important bank as ours easier, we have donated them two computers. The beginning of September 2011 seemed to be the best timing for the computer takeover because the preparations for Magic Breakfast were in full, as well as the parallel preparations for the World Food Day which is annually held on 16th October. Working with partners who apart from sharing the same dedication and commitment to the projects they work on, also help each other out when needed, is a real foundation for every good, sustainable and long-lasting partnership. 51 www.creditagricole.rs CAS committed to supporting children’s rights Donation for administrative costs of Food Bank Our partner in projects for socially and developmentally vulnerable children is Food Bank. In order to show our support to this humanitarian organisation we are ﬁnancing part of their administrative costs on an annual basis. It is very important for us to contribute to the organisations we believe in because that is the basis for long and sustainable development and growth while solving problems of hunger and poverty. Having trustworthy partners in projects is the prerequisite of reaching more people and children who really need our help. Supporting children and citizens in need in various ways These organisations were given our support for various projects: SOS Telefon Društvo za pomoć mentalno nedovoljno razvijenim osobama Rakovica Centar Živeti uspravno Kamp prijateljstva Košnica BELhospice All these organisations are dedicated to supporting children in various ways – either they are children with diabetes, who need to come to terms with their illness and learn to live with it, or they are children with developmental problems or they are children who are ﬁghting cancer. Also, this year we included in our donations organisations that are protecting abused children. In any case, we are aware that there are far more organisations that there are donors and funds, but we are dedicated to helping as much as we can. Spring Cleaning of Serbia: 4th June 2011 Over 270.000 volunteers at more than 3.000 locations in 169 municipalities were on Saturday, 4th June cleaning Serbia during the action ’Spring Cleaning of Serbia’. This year was pronounced as the European Year of Volunteering and it differs, among other things, from all the previous ones, by the fact that volunteering gets more and more prominent. Credit Agricole Srbija joined this action by donating 1000 sandwiches to pupils of primary and secondary schools that were participating in clearing the areas of Šumice and Banjica. Groups of pupils and students were arriving early Saturday morning to the Sports Centre Šumice where coordinators of the action were directing them to the locations to be cleaned. All those chosen locations were polluted by waste or over time turned into dump sites. Our corporate partner METRO also joined the action by donating one bottle of water with every sandwich in total 1000 bottles. In this way, Good Fairy Dobrila indirectly participated in the action by once again, providing for the children. 52 www.creditagricole.rs CAS committed to supporting children’s rights New vehicle for food delivery Crédit Agricole Srbija helped the Rotary Club Novi Sad Dunav charity event by giving a donation. The charity was organised to collect donations in order to purchase a new vehicle for food delivery to the most vulnerable in Novi Sad the users of Soup Kitchens of Red Cross – children and disabled persons. In a pleasant atmosphere at the Novi Sad beach at the banks of Dunav, called Strand, there were 400 people who, in the spirit of good will, donated by paying the entrance tickets. All collectibles were gathered and aimed at charity while there were sponsors who donated as well. Red Cross of Novi Sad delivers 600 cooked meals to the most socially vulnerable citizens of Novi Sad while there is increasing number of children among them. The winners in culinary competition were announced by the jury consisting among others, of water-polo player Danilo Ikodinović and artist Živko Grozdanić Gera, and the prize was the copper sieve. The donors were given the Thank You Letters which was received in the name of Crédit Agricole Srbija by Igor Marković, Head of Organisation. World Peace Day, 21st September 2011 was the one when the charity ofﬁcially ended by handing in a set of keys of brand new Škoda Practic to the Red Cross. This vehicle will serve as a food delivery aid to the most vulnerable citizens of Novi Sad. 53 www.creditagricole.rs Employee Engagement in CSR 32 Employee Engagement in CSR Employee Initiatives Volonteering programmes Volunteering initiative is relatively new in Serbia since it was not such long ago that there was not even legislation regulating this subject. Major contributions to the employee initiatives were CSR projects Magic Breakfast and Christmas Shoebox. In Magic Breakfast employees took an active part by animating the professional buyers at METRO Cash & Carry and explained the aim of the charity event. The better they explained, the higher the sales of prepared packages went. In Christmas Shoebox there was a different kind of volunteering – it included time and some ﬁnancial efforts. The employees needed to buy items for children who are not used to getting presents for Christmas because getting food was a struggle enough. They then placed the items into a shoebox, wrapped it up and brought it to the Bank. All the collected shoeboxes were shipped to the Centre for Social Protection to be distributed to the most socially vulnerable children. Corporate Touch Rugby League 2011 Initiative of our employees was to join the the Touch Rugby League in order to promote the sport in Serbia. Touch Rugby team took part on 28.09.2011 in Corporate Touch Rugby League at Ada for the ﬁrst time. The League is organised by Societe Generale for the third time and this year the companies-participants were : Sanoﬁ-Aventis, Lafarge, Safege, Ernst & Young, KPMG, Crédit Agricole Srbija and the host company Societe Generale. The matches were organised simultaneously 2 teams at the court situated opposite the Jezero restaurant. Regardless the fresh evening all teams were in high spirits and ready to ﬁght for their colours. BELhospice 2011: Humanitarian Football Tournament Our football team took part at the third humanitarian football tournament organised by BELHospice on 26th June 2011 at the Sports Recreational Centre Kovilovo. Traditionally, at the initiative of BELhospice third humanitarian event was organised in order to collect funds for taking care of terminally ill cancer patients. Our Bank supports BELHopsice initiative since the ﬁrst tournament organised in 2009 and in this way wishes to send a message that care for others is an altruistic motive nurtured within the Bank. Our team played great but was not lucky enough to get to the ﬁnals. This fact did not diminish a great team spirit of friendship ﬂoating around during the sports day where our bankers gave their best. This year’s humanitarian football tournament ’BELhospice 2011’ was very successful and there was an amount of around 11.000 Euros collected. These funds will help taking care of around 50 terminally ill cancer patients from the territory of Belgrade in the period of three to four months. 55 www.creditagricole.rs Employee Engagement in CSR Give away a book to Kraljevo During March and April 2011 at the Cultural Centre Grad there were literary evenings organised where books were collected for the City Library in Kraljevo. The humanitarian action was called „Give Away a Book Which You Like to Kraljevo“. Members of the Working Group for support in emergency situations where Crédit Agricole Srbija is an active member, supported this action and decided to join by promoting the idea whithin their companies – to collect books among the employees in order to donate them. In our Bank the action lasted from mid May until the end of May, approximately some two weeks and during that time our colleages, mainly from Novi Sad and Belgrade brought in books for Kraljevo. 56 www.creditagricole.rs Employee Engagement in CSR Internal Communications contributing to CSR Internal Communications and CSR was placed in a Communications department as part of a new structure in 2011. The tasks were connected to integrating CSR into the whole structure of the Bank. Regular Sustainable Development Committees were held and all projects for children approved. Also, the Sustainable Development Policy was revised and updated and made available to all employees on the intranet. Keeping the employees up-to-date with the CSR initiatives and communicate the messages in an effective, yet simple way included ﬁnding a way to motivate employees to participate in campaigns designed to enhance client satisfaction while enhancing employee satisfaction as well and also further educate and raise awareness about CSR issues. After two years it is now evident that car sharing intitiative is well established, as well as video-conferencing between Belgrade and Novi Sad and when needed with Paris headquarters of Crédit Agricole. Managing Personal Finances Managing Personal Finances is a project of Global Compact UN Serbia, more precisely, the Working group for CSR in Banking and Finances. Crédit Agricole Srbija and 9 other banks are participants in the project. Banks that are members of the Work group for Corporate Social Responsibility in Banking and Finances with the support of the Academy for Banking and Finances from Belgrade and Chamber of Commerce of Serbia have organised free interactive workshops for citizens. The topics included those which are the most interesting in the periods of recession – how to plan and manage personal ﬁnances more efﬁciently. 57 www.creditagricole.rs Employee Engagement in CSR ECOLOGY: SWIFT & CAS Cooperation on Recycling Crédit Agricole Srbija and Cooperative for Collecting Secondary Raw Materials and Their Recycling SWIFT1 ( Sustainable Waste-management Initiative For healthier Tomorrow ) started the realisation of their cooperation deﬁned in the agreement on solving the problem of commercial and packaging waste within the Bank. The project was worked on for a year, and much to the delight of all the participants it was launched at the meeting with the UN representatives and the CAS team held on 1st August 2011 at the Bank. Due to different law legislative, the level of adjustment of the contract lasted the longest, but the team which worked on the project successfully ﬁnalised that part as well. The ﬁrst phase of collecting waste paper ofﬁcially started by placing cardboard boxes to eight branch ofﬁces of Crédit Agricole Srbija at Belgrade territory, as well as the Belgrade part of the Head Ofﬁce in Savograd and it had a very positive impact among the employees. Apart from employees of the bank, the cardboard boxes will be placed in the visible business space-areas in the branches for the clients to use them. The second phase of this action is planned for September when Head Ofﬁce in Novi Sad will be included as well, while our long-term goal is to spread the action to all regions where Crédit Agricole Srbija does business. Although SWIFT 1 is not the only organisation that is in this type of recycling business, the reason Crédit Agricole Srbija has chosen this institution is the fact that they employ Roma population.This contributes to the solution of the poverty problem and at the same time adds to social integration of the marginalised and especially vulnerable population. The project is under the auspices of the UN World Health Organisation and has full support of our Bank. We hope that our colleagues will soon get used to the boxes as well as to place the waste paper in them. The sole knowledge that we are behaving in a socially responsible way regarding the waste, and contributing to our own future is enhanced by the fact that we also contribute to the sustainability of SWIFT 1 Cooperation and their employees. 58 www.creditagricole.rs Employee Engagement in CSR New Year’s Party for Employees’ Children One of the tasks of Internal Communications is to organise a New Year’s party for employee’s children. Since CAS is actively supporting children’s rights, we are supporting our employees’ children’s rights to celebrations as well. December is now traditionally a month dedicated to children and this year we have organised four New Year’s parties for the little ones in Belgrade, Novi Sad, Nis and Kragujevac. The theatre play which ends with Santa Claus who is giving out presents is the most awaited event among the children and a chance for parents to socialise with each other in a relaxed and festive setting. This year, we even had a ’real’ clown who greeted the little ones giving out chocolates and sweets before the play with Good Fairy Dobrila started. As of this year, all the employees-parents were asked if they agreed that in case they, or their colleagues did not collect the sweet package for their child, the package would be collected by the Food Bank and given to charity. All the parents agreed, so as of this year, no sweet package is ’homeless’. 59 www.creditagricole.rs CSR 2011 Editor in-Chief Brana Lišić Editorial Board Raško Tomašević Vladimir Bošković Ninoslav Vasić Miloš Radosavljević Aleksandar Simić Vladimir Malović Translation and editing Brana Lišić www.creditagricole.rs
