me d iu m Home Corporate Profile President's Message President's Message JX Nippon Oil & Gas Exploration Corporation is a core business company that engages in oil and natural gas development business in the JX Group, which is the leading “integrated energy, resources and materials group” in Japan. We are currently expanding our crude oil and natural gas development business in 14 countries around the world. We are leading projects as operator in the crude oil production business in Vietnam, natural gas production business in Malaysia, and exploration business in the North Sea area in the U.K. We have also been promoting a crude oil production project for more than 30 years in the United Arab Emirates, which is one of the world’s largest oil producing countries. In terms of LNG projects, we are involved in the Tangguh LNG Project in Indonesia, and are participating in Papua New Guinea’s first LNG project regarding which development operations are proceeded along with partner companies aiming for the first LNG cargo delivery in 2014. In the oil and natural gas development industry, competition over resource acquisition has become increasingly intense in recent years. This is due tosuch factors as continuation of high crude oil price, escalation of resources nationalism in oil and gas producing countries, greater demand for resources in emerging nations, and the gaining power of unconventional resources as represented by shale gas and oil. In order for us to secure sustainable growth under these circumstances, it is imperative that we maintain and increase our production volume in the midto long-term. To this end, we have been implementing a variety of measures based on our medium-term management plan for Fiscal Years 2010 to 2012. In this plan, we intend to supplement and increase the amount of reserves in oil and gas fields in which we have concessions by actively promoting our exploration activities, which we have positioned them as the foundation for future sustainable growth, and by acquiring carefullyselected assets, and also to maximize the value of our existing assets and optimize our asset portfolio. As a result, we have successfully achieved results by acquiring an operatorship in promising exploration concession areas in Qatar, Malaysia and other countries, and by renewing our interests and acquiring new PDFmyURL.com concessions in Abu Dhabi. We have been also smoothly promoting initiatives in additional development to maximize the value of our existing assets and to implement enhanced oil recovery methods and other new technologies. Under the JX Group mission statement: “JX Group will contribute to the development of a sustainable economy and society through innovation in the areas of energy, resources and materials”, we have positioned compliance, social contribution, and environment and safety as the three pillars in order to earn the confidence of society as a good corporate citizen, and are actively carrying out our CSR activities. As part of these efforts, we have become a participant of “the United Nations Global Compact”and have expressed our support for the ten principles. Regarding specific action, we are contributing to the world in reducing CO 2 by developing a project for collecting and efficiently using associated gas at the Rang Dong Oil Field in Vietnam. This project is for supplying the associated gas produced along with crude oil as a power generation fuel, and it was the first to be officially approved in the oil and gas development industry by the CDM Executive Board as a Clean Development Mechanism ( CDM; one of the methods certifiedas a greenhouse-effect gasreduction project under the Kyoto Protocol). We aim to strengthen relationships with oil and gas producing countries by contributing to the countries’ development through our business activities. We would appreciate your continued valuable support and assistance in future. Shigeo Hirai Representative Director, President and CEO PDFmyURL.com me d iu m Home Safety, Environment and Community Safety, Environment and Community As A Corporate Citizen, We Will Continue Our Contribution to the Earth and its People Through Our Business Activities. HSE Policy HSE Managem ent System Safe Operations and Harmony with Systematic Approach to Manage HSE Environment of Earth Risks Operation Safety Environm ent Giving Top Priority to Operations Safety Meeting various challenges for environmental protection Com m unity and Com pliance PDFmyURL.com With highly ethical stance, we hope to coexist with society. JX Report Please see CSR Report information on JX Holdings, Inc. Web site. United Nations Global Compact Please see information on United Nations Global Compact Web site. PDFmyURL.com me d iu m Home Safety, Environment and Community HSE Policy HEALTH, SAFETY and ENVIRONMENTAL POLICY OF JX NIPPON OIL & GAS EXPLORATION CORPORATION General Policy We, JX Nippon Oil & Gas Exploration Corporation ( NOEX), as a member of JX Group, whose mission statement is to contribute to the development of a sustainable economy and society through innovation in the areas of energy, resources and materials, are undertaking oil and gas exploration and production operations as one of the core businesses of JX Group. We, as a member of the society, are committed to providing oil and gas for the society’s needs in a manner that avoids injuries and illnesses to our employees, contractors and neighbours while acting in harmony with the environment of the Earth. Strategies We implement this policy by conducting the following strategies: Ensuring that Health, Safety and Environment ( HSE) considerations are given prevailing status over our other business considerations. Ensuring compliance with all relevant legislations and other requirements to which we subscribe. Applying a systematic approach to HSE management to achieve continual HSE performance improvement including setting strict HSE objectives and performing regular audits and reviews. Designing our workplaces to minimise the risks to personnel and developing work practices to further reduce the risks as low as reasonably practicable. Encouraging the use of the best available technology to reduce the impact of our operations to the environment, particularly with regard to the efficient use of energy and materials, the minimisation of waste PDFmyURL.com and the prevention of pollution. Ensuring our personnel to be competent for their tasks and further providing HSE training and awareness programmes to manage HSE risks. Developing communication channels to ensure the HSE policy and its objectives are understood by all our personnel, contractors and customers, and to actively seek their input and feedback. Application The President of NOEX is accountable for ensuring the HSE policy is implemented and that its effectiveness is reviewed annually. All personnel and contractors of NOEX Group Companies in all areas of the activities under NOEX operational control are responsible for applying the HSE Policy. Shigeo Hirai Representative Director, President and CEO JX Nippon Oil & Gas Exploration Corporation June 2012 PDFmyURL.com me d iu m Home Safety, Environment and Community HSE Management System HSE Management System HSE Management System E&P activities progress in four stages: exploration, development, production and abandonment. Each stage involves risks of injuries and illness, accidents, and impacts on the environment. Giving top priority to managing risks related to health, safety and environment ( HSE) in carrying out our business activities, JX Nippon Oil & Gas Exploration has established and is implementing systematic approaches to manage those risks ( HSE management system or HSE-MS) based upon internationally recognized standards such as ISO14001 ※1 and OHSAS18001※2 . Moreover, to further prevent workplace accidents and reduce our environmental impact, we continually improve the HSE-MS and apply it across the entire organization, from the JX Nippon Oil & Gas Exploration headquarters to each office and operation site. The president and CEO who leads the corporate HSE committee consisting of senior management in the Tokyo headquarters is committed to implement the HSE-MS at all levels within our organization and accordingly, each branch office which manages oil and gas field operations as an operator has established its HSE committee headed by each representative of each branch office. Integration of the HSE-MS between the Tokyo headquarters and each branch office is achieved though; setting annual corporate HSE objectives and targets; conducting an annual corporate emergency response exercise between the Tokyo headquarters and a branch office; reporting and circulating HSE performance statistics and incident reports within our organization and discussing lessons learnt from each incident occurred; conducting an annual corporate HSE audit to a branch office by the Tokyo headquarters; holding an annual corporate HSE meeting with HSE and/or operations representatives of each branch offices chaired by the Tokyo headquarters where annual HSE performance is discussed in detail. Integration of HSE-MS between the Tokyo headquarters and each branch office and commitment by president PDFmyURL.com and CEO in the Tokyo headquarters enhance effective implementation of HSE-MS at each branch office for continual improvement. Part of our systematic approaches are externally assessed by accredited organizations for ISO14001 and the branch offices in Malaysia and Vietnam obtained the ISO 14001 certificates in 2007. Click to enlarge Click to enlarge IS O140 0 1 C e rtific a te for He la n g g a s fie ld IS O140 0 1 C e rtific a te for Ra n g Don g oil op e ra tion s in Ma la ysia fie ld op e ra tion s in Ve tn a m Note ※1 En viron m e n ta l Ma n a g e m e n t S yste m s S p e c ific a tion with Gu id a n c e for Use ※2 Oc c u p a tion a l He a lth a n d S a fe ty Ma n a g e m e n t S yste m s S p e c ific a tion Emergency and Oil Spill Response As part of the HSE-MS, JX Nippon Oil & Gas Exploration established a corporate emergency response plan and a structure based on site specific emergency status, and an oil spill response plan. Under the plans our response is organized in a tier structure comprising the accident site, the operation site office, and the company headquarters. Depending on the level of the emergency the necessary organizations and resources are mobilized at each tier to minimize the impact on human life and the environment. The plans are regularly tested for effectiveness. PDFmyURL.com Emergency drills are performed internally and together with relevant emergency services providers, and improvements to the plans are made as necessary. In order to promptly respond to a major oil spill, we utilize an industry mutual aid organization in Malaysia, and have engaged industry-recognized oil spill response services providers in other countries. HS E e n e rg e n c y d rills in c olla b ora tion Offsh ore fire fig h tin g d rill a t with sta ff m e m b e rs in Vie tn a m . He la n g Ga s Fie ld . PDFmyURL.com me d iu m Home Safety, Environment and Community Operations Safety Operations Safety Operations Safety We are proud of our outstanding HSE performance and no records of fatality, multiple LTI and/or major oil spill incidents up to present for several decades. Particularly, we have achieved zero LTI records for the last 7 years at Helang gas field in Malaysia. Each oil and gas field operation involves each different HSE risks which we assess at each occasion prior to executing each operation through various assessment processes such as a safety case, an operations program, a safety management system bridging document, an environmental and social impact assessment ( ESIA), an emergency response plan, an oil spill response plan and various HSE audits and/or inspections. Identified HSE risks are cascaded to all personnel working at our operations sites through HSE awareness trainings, HSE meetings at operations sites and/or tool box meetings and are ensured to be mitigated through applications of various operational control tools such as STOP cards ※3 , JSA ※4 and/or PTW ※5 . Senior managements of each branch office assess S a fe ty In c id e n t S ta tistic s for 2 0 0 6 2 0 10 competency of each personnel who works at our operations sites and identify needs of HSE trainings required to perform assigned tasks in safe manner PDFmyURL.com without impact to the environment of the Earth. Note s: ※1 Lost Tim e In ju ry Fre q u e n c y: Nu m b e r of work-re la te d re c ord a b le in c id e n ts p e r m illion m a n -h ou rs wh ic h re su lte d in fa ta litie s a n d /or in ju rie s re q u irin g work le a ve of a d a y or m ore . ※2 Tota l Re c ord a b le In c id e n t Fre q u e n c y: Nu m b e r of work-re la te d re c ord a b le in c id e n ts p e r m illion m a n -h ou rs. ※3 S a fe ty Tra in in g Ob se rva tion Prog ra m c a rd s ※4 Job S a fe ty An a lysis ※5 Pe rm it-to-Work PDFmyURL.com me d iu m Home Safety, Environment and Community Environment 2 Contribute to the World by Reducing CO Emissions Environment Contribute to the World by Reducing CO 2 Emissions Activities in Project the Rang Dong Oil Field About CDM and CER Issuance Associated Gas Recovery and Utilization Project the Rang Dong Oil Field in Vietnam We have developed and promoted a project to reduce the CO 2 emissions at the Rang Dong oil field in Vietnam ( the “Rang Dong Project”). The Rang Dong Project was approved by the CDM Executive Board as a Clean Development Mechanism ( “CDM”) under the Kyoto Protocol and 6.63 million tons of CERs were issued for the Rang Dong Project. PDFmyURL.com Japan Vietnam Petroleum Company, Ltd. ( JVPC), a subsidiary of JX Nippon Oil & Energy, produces crude oil as a operator from the Rang Dong oil field in Vietnam. Previously, the associated gas produced along with the crude oil from the Rang Dong oil field was flared at the offshore platform. In this project, the associated gas is PDFmyURL.com recovered and supplied for local use, such as to power generation plants, through a sub-sea pipeline. About CDM and CER Issuance The CDM is a mechanism under the Kyoto Protocol. Developed countries and developing countries cooperate in implementing a project which reduces the emissions of the greenhouse gases ( “GHGs”) such as CO 2 . If the project meets the CDM criteria for CDM registration the CDM Executive Board will issue certified emission reductions ( “CERs”) to the project participants equivalent to the reduction of GHGs emissions caused by the project. The Rang Dong Project has been registered as a CDM since February 2006. In February 2008, the CDM Executive Board formally approved a CERs issuance of 4.49 million tons for the emission reductions achieved by the project for the period between December 2001 and December 2005. And in April 2011,a CERs issuance of 2.14 million tons for the emission reductions was approved for the period between 2006 and 2007. The Rang Dong Project is expected to receive approvals continuously for the CERs issuances for January 2008 onwards, which will accumulate to approximately 8.9 million tons for the 10 year period between 2001 and 2011. PDFmyURL.com me d iu m Home Safety, Environment and Community Environment Harmony with Environment Environment Harmony with Environment JX Group Value JX Holdings Inc. adopted “Harmony with Environment” as one of JX group value. We, as a core subsidiary company of JX Holdings Inc., proactively involve; disclosing information of environmental performance relating with our oil and gas field operations through an annual CSR report to be issued by JX Holdings Inc.; JX group 3 years term environmental management program led by JX Holdings Inc.; and, Environm ental Protection At JX Nippon Oil & Gas Exploration, environmental impact assessments ( EIA) form the primary project planning process for proactively preventing environmental impact from oil and gas exploration and production. We examine countermeasures to mitigate identified environmental impacts, including biodiversity, when necessary, and monitor environmental impacts in accordance with the method set out by the EIA to ensure that any impacts are really being mitigated. From the early stage of project planning, technical experts and environmental specialists related to each project closely communicate on the best possible mitigation plans. Reduction in Green House Gas Em ission Two primary sources of greenhouse gas emissions from JX Nippon Oil & Gas Exploration’s E&P operations are CO 2 emitted from the flaring of the associated gas produced along with crude oil and the continuous release of PDFmyURL.com vent methane gas from gas processing facilities. We have formulated and are enforcing extensive measures to reduce greenhouse gas emissions at our major operating oil and gas fields, namely the Helang Gas Field in Malaysia, the Rang Dong Oil Field in Vietnam and the El-Bunduq and Mubarraz Oil Fields in the Middle East, among others. In the Helang Gas Field, the company reduced vent gas emissions released from gas processing facilities by approximately 50% in 2009 against a rolling average of the previous three years. This was achieved by managing the pressure of the vent gas lines and carrying out thorough maintenance inspections of production facilities. We also reduced unplanned shutdowns of gas processing facilities and maintained stable gas production. In Vietnam, from September 2001 we ceased flaring associated gas produced along with crude oil from the Rang Dong Oil Field and began to transport such gas via a subsea pipeline to an onshore power plant in Vietnam for use as fuel gas to generate electric power. The JX Group applied to register this project, which efficiently utilizes associated gas, with the Clean Development Mechanism ( CDM) Executive Board, the UNorganization under the Kyoto Protocol. On February 4, 2006, the project was accepted and registered as a CDM project. Moreover, several of the offshore installations at the Rang Dong Oil Field are equipped with solar and wind power generators to partially cover electricity demands at the installations. In June 2009, the Vietnamese Ministry of Industry & Trade ( MoIT) awarded Japan Vietnam Petroleum Company, Limited with a first prize for environmental protection in recognition of our concerted efforts in Vietnam in this regard. In the United Arab Emirates, JX Nippon Oil & Gas Exploration is a shareholder of Abu Dhabi Oil Co., Ltd., which operates offshore oil fields such as the Mubarraz Oil Field. These operations involve using a highpressure compressor to inject associated acid gas produced along with crude oil back into the producing oil reservoirs at depths of approximately 3,000m below sea level. This has greatly reduced CO 2 emissions into the atmosphere and enhances the reservoir’s crude oil recovery rate. In recognition of the project’s groundbreaking technology and its successful track record, Abu Dhabi Oil Co., Ltd. was honored by the state-owned Abu Dhabi National Oil Company with first prize ( supreme winner) in the 2000 HSE Awards. We are making further efforts to reduce the fuel consumption of offshore support vessels transporting equipment and materials between shore bases and offshore installations by optimizing logistics schedule. PDFmyURL.com Th e first p rize in th e e n viron m e n ta l p rote c tion in 2 0 0 9 Th e g old p rize in th e 2 0 0 0 HS E Awa rd s Gre e n Hou se Ga s Em ission for 2 0 0 6 2 0 10 Prom oting Developm ent of Solvent EOR T echnology Oil is generally accumulated in the porous media of the underground reservoir.The proportion of crude oil accumulated underground that can be recovered is limited, and the recovery factor is generally considered to be 5–25% for primary recovery using natural energy and about 30% for secondary recovery using water injection and other techniques. Attention is now focused on tertiary recovery technology ( Enhanced Oil Recovery: EOR) through injection of gas or chemicals etc. to further improve the crude oil recovery. Meanwhile, the importance of reducing emissions of carbon dioxide ( CO 2 ),a greenhouse gas, is rising as part of efforts to prevent global warming. Moves to reduce emissions by injecting/solidifying CO 2 into depleted reservoir and/or aquifers underground are ramping up as part of such efforts.These moves are called Carbon Capture and Storage ( CCS). We are working in R&D for CO 2 -EOR technology to boost oil recovery by injecting CO 2 into the reservoir. Since 2007, Vietnam Oil and Gas Group ( PETROVIETNAM), Japan Oil, Gas and Metals National Corporation ( JOGMEC) PDFmyURL.com and our company have conducted a feasibility study for the field application of CO 2 -EOR including laboratory experiments, reservoir simulation study and CO 2 supply study. The study result indicated a substantial potential to increase oil production as well as to reduce CO 2 emission. It also showed that the industrial exhaust gases would be a potential supply source of CO 2 for CO 2 -EOR, which, if applied on a field level, would lead to an expectation of reduced global CO 2 emission through the underground storage. In order to confirm the field applicability, a small scale CO 2 injection test ( Pilot Test) was conducted in June, 2011. In the Pilot Test, we injected CO 2 into the reservoir and produced the reservoir fluid together with CO 2 . We confirmed the main objective of the CO 2 Huff 'n' Puff pilot test; CO 2 injectivity, increased oil production, oil composition change, oil property change, water cut reduction and better understanding of the reservoir characterization. This type of the Pilot Test conducted in offshore is the first application in the world as well as the first case of CO 2 -EOR in Vietnam. Reduction in VOC Em issions Typical VOCs ( volatile organic compounds) include benzene, toluene, and xylene. It has been reported that considerable health damage is caused by photochemical smog; VOCs are believed to be one of the causes of photochemical smog, and their reduction is an important environmental issue. At Nakajo gas filed in Japan, surplus oil storage tank has been suspended since 2007 in order to reduce the emission of VOCs. Minim izing Residual Oil in Produced Water Crude oil is produced with a large amount of associated water which is primarily segregated from crude oil by the production separators on the offshore installations. The water segregated from crude oil by the separators still contains residual oil. At El-Bunduq and Mubarraz oil fields in U.A.E., the water segregated by the separators is further treated and disposed off into the subsurface non-hydrocarbon-bearing formations at a depth of more than 1,000m below sea level in order to prevent sea pollution and in strict compliance to the local regulations. At Helang gas field in Malaysia and Rang Dong oil field in Vietnam, we further treat the water segregated by the separators on the offshore facilities to reduce the concentration of residual oil in the water below 40 ppm in strict compliance to the international and local regulations prior to discharging to the sea. We regularly take samples of the water to be discharged to the sea and have samples analyzed at C le a r se a wa te r n e a r He la n g Ga s Fie ld independent third-party laboratories to confirm residual oil concentration below 40 PDFmyURL.com ppm. Minim izing Environm ental Im pact Caused by Disposal of Drilled Cuttings from Offshore Oil and Gas Wells Major environmental impact caused by oil and gas well drilling operations is disposal of drilled cuttings to the sea. The drilled cuttings are transported by the drilling fluids from a wellbore to a drilling unit, where the drilled cuttings are separated from the drilling fluids by vibrating screens ( “shale shakers”). Some drilling fluids remain adhered to the drilled cuttings but the majority is separated by the shale shakers and returned to the drilling fluid system which is continuously re-circulated, while the drilled cuttings are disposed to the sea. There are two types of drilling fluids frequently used in the industry, namely an Aquarius drilling fluid and a non-Aquarius drilling fluid. The aquarius drilling fluid is much less toxic and much more biodegradable than the nonAquarius drilling fluid. As some drilling fluids remain adhered to the drilled cuttings, we always endeavor to use the Aquarius drilling fluid whenever De p loyin g se a wa te r sa m p le b ottle s technically possible. In case of the non-Aquarius drilling fluids being required for any technical reasons, we first conduct an environmental impact assessment to determine the impact of the environment by use of the non-Aquarius drilling fluid and establish mitigation plan to minimize the impact to the environment and the disposal of drilled cuttings are closely controlled and monitored. At Helang gas field in Malaysia and Rang Dong oil field in Vietnam, where multiple oil and gas wells were drilled from an offshore installation and fairly large amount of drilled cuttings were discharged, we took samples of the sea bed sediment and sea water before and after the oil and gas wells drilling operations to quantitatively analyze the impact to the environment. At present, none of major impact to the environment is reported through the sample analysis. On -site a n a lysis of se a b e d se d im e n t sa m p le s PDFmyURL.com Reducing Im pact to Marine Mam m als caused by Offshore Seism ic Survey Operations The offshore seismic survey involves an acoustic pulse generated by an air gun signal source deployed behind the survey vessel. This pulse is reflected from the boundaries of the geological layers in the sub-surface and the reflected signals are recorded by a series of hydrophones in streamer cables of a length ranging from 4-8 km, towed at a depth of 6-10 m below the water surface behind the survey vessel. The signals or noise generated by the air guns may potentially result in modified behavior on whales and other marine mammals such as feeding, breeding and migratory regimes. While there is a lack of definitive evidence regarding the effects of noise generated by air guns operations, we cautiously carry out an offshore seismic survey with attendance of a marine mammal observer on a survey vessel and in accordance with JNCC guidelines ※1 as and when the environmental impact assessment identifies potential marine mammals habitat in the vicinity of the seismic survey area. ※1 Join t Na tu re C on se rva tion C om m itte e Gu id e lin e s for Min im izin g Ac ou stic Distu rb a n c e to Ma rin e Ma m m a l from S e ism ic S u rve ys wh ic h su g g e sts to su sp e n d a ir g u n op e ra tion s a s a n d wh e n m a rin e m a m m a ls a re ob se rve d in th e vic in ity of se ism ic su rve y a re a . PDFmyURL.com me d iu m Home Safety, Environment and Community Community and Compliance Community and Compliance Community We have been conducting various activities in an effort to socially benefit local communities, particularly in Vietnam and Malaysia. Activities in Vietnam Activities in Malaysia Activities in Japan In Vietnam, we have been In Malaysia, we have been At Nigata prefecture in Japan, we conducting social contribution conducting social contribution have been conducting unique activities such as donation for the activities such as donating for social contribution activities such construction of schools and restoration of disaster and as providing the salt water as rehabilitation facilities. community events,mainly in water for hot springs. Sarawak province. Activities in Vietnam Activities in Japan Activities in Malaysia PDFmyURL.com Compliance and Human rights awareness Com pliance Hum an rights awareness JX Group, CSR Report activities he above links to the CSR activities of core operating companies of the JX Group. PDFmyURL.com me d iu m Search Hom e Safety, Environm ent and Com m unity Com m unity and Com pliance Activities in Vietnam Safety, Environment and Community and Compliance Community HSE Policy Activities in Vietnam Activities in Malaysia Activities in Japan HSE Managem ent System Operation Safety Activities in Vietnam Environm ent In Vietnam , where we expand one of NOEX’s key projects as operator, we have been conducting various social contribution Com m unity and Com pliance activities for local com m unity developm ent. Com m unity Com pliance and Hum an Support for construction of school buildings in Vietnam rights awareness T he benefit of education is well recognized within the Vietnam ese society. However, due to the lack of adequate facilities or funding m any Vietnam ese children still do not have the opportunity to obtain a proper education. In an effort to increase access to education we are actively participating in local projects such as the construction of school buildings. We have been donating funds to the project to construct school buildings in Vietnam since 2002. PDFmyURL.com 2002. In 2009, the com pany m ade a donation to the construction of the Dai Hao annex building for the Cho Dai Elem entary School in Quang T ri Province, Vietnam . T he com pany and its em ployees also m ade donations to ensure a full array of educational m aterials are on hand at elem entary and junior high schools built through previous donations across Vietnam , in an ongoing effort to provide the schools with the equipm ent and supplies they need. Construction of rehabilitation facilities in Vietnam Due to the defoliation agents used during the Vietnam War, Vietnam has a large num ber of disabled children. Up on the com m em oration of the cum ulative production of 100 m illion barrels of crude oil from the Rang Dong oil field we donated funds for the construction of rehabilitation facilities for physically im paired children in Gio Linh, Quang T ri Province in central Vietnam . T he construction of the rehabilitation facilities were com pleted in Novem ber 2005 and m any children are participating in rehabilitation program s at the facilities today. In 2011, the com pany m ade another donation for the construction of rehabilitation facilities in Cam Xuyen Com m une. We continue to support the children with the goal of helping them overcom e their disabilities and enjoy healthier lives. Participation in walking day event In conjunction with International Children’s Day on June 1 of each year, em ployees take part in the procession and other events at a walking event held in the city of Vung T au, Vietnam . In addition, Japan Vietnam Petroleum Com pany, Ltd. m akes donations to econom ically disadvantaged children in the city through a fundraising effort run by the Vung T au Com m ittee on Population, Fam ilies and Children. As we have a long history of business activity in Vietnam , we are glad to give back to the PDFmyURL.com As we have a long history of business activity in Vietnam , we are glad to give back to the local com m unity and Vietnam ese society by being involved in this kind of social activity. Hom e Safety, Environm ent and Com m unity Com m unity and Com pliance Activities in Vietnam Safety, Environm ent HSE Policy HSE Managem ent System Operation Safety Environm ent Com m unity and Com pliance and Com m unity Business Activities | Exploration Developm ent and Production Flow | Corporate Profile | Safety, Environm ent and Com m unity | Recruit Hom e | Site Map | Contact Us PDFmyURL.com me d iu m Home Safety, Environment and Community Community and Compliance Activities in Malaysia Community and Compliance Activities in Vietnam Activities in Malaysia Activities in Japan Activities in Malaysia In Malaysia, We have been conducting social contribution activities such as donating for community events and restoration of disaster, and have built up a good relationship with the community. Donations to Miri City On 20th May, 2005, Miri, which is our base in Malaysia, was granted city status. To show our respect for the city, which has developed steadily with the oil and gas industry, we donated a part of the cost for the commemoration ceremony. In addition, we are supporting Miri City through donations to some of its activities and community events such as to the 5th anniversary celebration of Miri City in 2010. We also sponsored the annual Sarawak Regatta 2010 that was held in Kuching. Donation to Miri Division Disaster Relief and Managem ent Com m ittee Almost half of Miri Division was flooded and affected by landslides, which occurred in December 2008 continually to the beginning of 2009.We donated relief money to Miri Division Disaster Relief and Management PDFmyURL.com Committee headed by the Miri resident. Donation for Asian T sunam i victim s On 26th December, 2004, the Asian Tsunami caused extensive damage to some countries bordering the Indian Ocean such as Indonesia, Thailand, Sri Lanka and Malaysia. We donated relief money to Malaysia ( in cooperation with Nippon Oil Corporation) through the Japanese Red Cross Society and Mercy Malaysia. In 2009, the company made donations through NGOs to fund aid efforts in Indonesia, which was severely hit by an earthquake that struck off the coast of Sumatra. PDFmyURL.com me d iu m Search Hom e Safety, Environm ent and Com m unity Com m unity and Com pliance Activities in Japan Safety, Environment and Community and Compliance Community HSE Policy Activities in Vietnam Activities in Malaysia Activities in Japan HSE Managem ent System Operation Safety Activities in the Nakajo Oil and Gas Field Environm ent T he Nakajo Oil and Gas Field which was discovered in 1957 is com posed of three different types of hydrocarbon Com m unity and Com pliance accum ulations; i.e., non-associated gas, natural gas, natural gas dissolved in water and black oil. We have been conducting Com m unity various social contribution activities in Japan. Com pliance and Hum an rights awareness Hot spring We provide Kansui, the salt water produced with dissolved natural gas, to the local com m unity as water for hot springs. Kansui contains a variety of natural m inerals and is officially certified as a hot spring source. Local residents and tourists enjoy bathing in this healthy hot spring. Ho t Spring Bath PDFmyURL.com Ho t Spring Bath Plantation T he Nakajo Oil and Gas Field is located at the northwestern edge of the Kanbara plain in sloping sand dunes facing the Sea of Japan. Black pines have been planted along the coast to prevent sand erosion while red pines on the dunes increase the beauty of the coast. Recently, a huge num ber of pine trees have died due to a change in environm ent. We have been investigating the cause of the dam age and, in parallel, m aking the best efforts to protect the rem aining red pines. Also cherry trees have been planted in the Central Processing Plant in order to harm onize with the environm ent. We have been involving in forest conservation activities in and around Nakajo Oil and Gas Field since 1998, with em ployees and their fam ilies participating as volunteers. Voluntarily providing iodine to Mongolia At the Nakajo Oil and Gas Field, the com pany is recovering iodine contained in brine water produced with gas. T he com pany is supplying products to custom ers worldwide as an iodine supplier. Iodine is an elem ent critical to hum an survival, so potassium iodine (chem ical substance to be added to table salt) is being voluntarily provided for three years from 2010 to Mongolia that cannot acquire seaweed, etc. containing iodine. Signing ceremo ny at Uran Bato r, in Mo ngo lia(August 16, 20 10 ) PDFmyURL.com Hom e Safety, Environm ent and Com m unity Com m unity and Com pliance Activities in Japan Safety, Environm ent HSE Policy HSE Managem ent System Operation Safety Environm ent Com m unity and Com pliance and Com m unity Business Activities | Exploration Developm ent and Production Flow | Corporate Profile | Safety, Environm ent and Com m unity | Recruit Hom e | Site Map | Contact Us PDFmyURL.com me d iu m Home Safety, Environment and Community Community and Compliance Compliance Community and Compliance Compliance Human rights awareness Compliance and Human rights awareness Com pliance Compliance status checks covering all employees were held at the headquarters and domestic and overseas business site of JX Nippon Oil & Gas Exploration, from late September through early December 2010. Most of the problem areas cited in these checks were concerns or doubts, and all problem have since been solved addressed. Along with the abovementioned checks, we conducted a self-monitoring program to gauge the level of understanding of laws related to operations among all employees at the headquarters and the domestic business sites, and Japanese staff of overseas business sites. This self-monitoring involved subjects listing laws they were aware of that related to their jobs, self-evaluation by grading understanding using a point system, and meetings with group managers based on this self-analysis. We will continue to work on strengthening communication about and enforcing strict compliance with laws, as well as raising employees' degree of recognition and understanding of laws. We also held briefings on regulations at the headquarter and domestic and overseas business sites between October 2010 and February 2011. We deepened employees' understanding of regulations, including compliancetelated regulations, and made them aware of regulations prohibiting the bribing to foreign public officials. Hum an rights awareness PDFmyURL.com JX Nippon Oil & Gas Exploration works on the human resource development as one of the key management agenda. To strengthen it, we established the JX Nippon Oil & Gas Exploration Human Resources Development and Training Basic Policy and consolidated personnel training structure based on the policy in 2010. For greater effect by the scheme above, the company has accordingly set up a committee for cultivation of the human resources, where outcomes from our efforts are periodically measured so that the management proactively goes ahead with the personnel development. As part of that approach, JX Nippon Oil & Gas Exploration, a core operating company of JX group, promotes awareness of human rights. We place enlightenment of human rights to our employees as a line item of the personnel training menu, and the company has given lectures and e-learning coursework as well as information on related TV programs. We held the workshop on human rights at the head office three times in 2010. From August 2010, JX Nippon Oil & Gas Exploration became a participant in the United Nations Global Compact, and has taken steps to adopt the 10 principles as part of human rights awareness. Through these and other activities, JX Nippon Oil & Gas Exploration, in the wake of the merger, as one of the core business companies of the JX Group remains as committed as ever to actively promoting human rights awareness. PDFmyURL.com
