Alfadel Group “We only promise what we can deliver and we honor our promises” UN Global Compact Communication on Progress www.alfadelgroup.com 1 Message from the Founder In business for more than 44 years, Alfadel Group has built a strong and reliable brand name throughout the successful years of its flourishing activities. To cope with the fast moving pace of the business world that‟s swiftly muting into big multinationals, we have been giving a great deal of attention to investing locally and expanding internationally. Thus, in line with our local and global expansion plans, we have been able to pursue our quest to fulfilling our ambition. Our steady expansion in local and international markets played a significant role in further enhancing Alfadel Group‟s image and intensifying our market exposure. The human factor has been one of the most important elements to the growth we have been achieving, and which would have never been possible without the spectacular efforts of our dedicated teams in our different companies. I would like to thank all who have been participating in our continued growth. We remain committed to providing quality products and services to our customers, and have complete confidence in our ability to achieve even greater partnerships and results. Adib Alfadel Founding Chairman & Chief Executive Officer Company Profile Alfadel Group is a leading Syrian based holding with a focus on strategic industries such as satellite services, water treatment, transport, environment and Financial Services. Founded nearly half a century ago, the Group has become one of the players on the regional business scene. With the increasing growth of the Syrian economy, Alfadel Group has diversified its portfolio of investments to include stakes in large institutions encompassing the banking, insurance and real estate development sectors. “We only promise what we can deliver and we honor our promises” This is the motto of the Group; for sound reputation is what Chairman Adib Alfadel keeps at the forefront of his vision. 2 Executive Board Members Adib Alfadel, Founding Chairman & Chief Executive Officer Alfadel Group (1966) With a Bachelor of Commerce from Damascus University, Adib Alfadel started his career in 1962 as an accountant for Alfijeh Water Resource Company. Then he started in the middle management of the Popular Credit Bank to eventually become the head of the treasury department. Driven by his ambition, it was in 1966 that he decided to start up his own business. In the late „70s, he cofounded and acted as the Executive Vice President of H.U. Morsch GmbH (Oil trading Company). He co-founded and held for a decade (1982-1992) the position of Vice President for marketing and business development of the „Groupement Arabe Français pour la Construction dans le Monde Arabo (GAFCA). Awarded in 2005 „Honorary President of the Syrian Environment & the Sustainable Development Association‟, Adib Alfadel received, on the 7th of March 2006, the decoration of “Cavaliere” of the “Ordine al Merito della Republica Italiana”in recognition of his efforts to strengthen the commercial bonds between Italy and Syria. Adib Alfadel is a founding board member of the “Club Des Entrepreneurs FrancoSyriens”. Imad Alfadel, Vice Chairman & Managing Director Alfadel Group Holder of a Bachelor of Science in Business Administration with a focus in Investments and Economics from Babson College, Wellesley, MA, USA, Imad Alfadel has a Masters in International Business from Webster University, Geneva, CH. He joined Alfadel Group in 2002, prior to that he was member of the Active Advisory Group of Merrill Lynch Bank Suisse, Geneva. The advisory group‟s main focus was to manage the bank‟s sophisticated ultra high net worth client portfolios. As representative of Alfadel Group, Imad Alfadel holds several board positions, among which board member of Banque Bemo Saudi Fransi, member of the Board of Solidarity Alliance Insurance Company, and vice chairman of Arab Finance Corporation sal. 3 Our Companies Today , driven by the ambitious plans and strategic vision of the Group‟s Board of Directors, seven companies operate under the umbrella of Alfadel Group, turning strategy into results by implementing innovative solutions that drive enterprise and product performance. From satellite services to wealth management, the Group‟s success stories highlight the proven results that each of the companies deliver to worldclass individuals and corporate clients, private and public sectors, locally and internationally. Alfadel Company [previously Alfadel Establishment] is the official agent and representative in Syria of a host of multinational companies and has executed, since 1966, contracts in various governmental tendering projects in the sectors of electricity, transport, radio & TV, to mention a few. Among the many projects undertaken:  Arab States Broadcasting Union (ASBU): full project execution with sound proof systems videos – TV cameras.  Syrian Radio & T.V Organization: supply of TV transmitters external transport vehicles for Lattakia, Aleppo, Homs, Bludan, Adra and Kassioun stations.  Public Establishment of Electricity for Generation and transmission: the supervision of the installation of al-Zara power station.  Syrian Civil Aviation Authority: airport radars, navigation aids and lighting. Alfadel Co. takes pride in having completed various large scale projects in Syria and has always ensured all projects are performed according to the highest standards. Many of the companies Alfadel Co. represents have entrusted the Group to be their official agent on a regional scope. Alfadel Group Ltd was established in 2006 as the investment arm of Alfadel Group. The company has made investments in strategic industries including but not limited to banking, finance, insurance, and real-estate development. Alfadel Group‟s portfolio today holds major shares in the following companies: • Cham Holding (Investment Holding Company) • Banque Bemo Saudi Fransi (Banking) • Bemo Saudi Fransi Finance (Finance) • Solidarity Alliance Insurance Company (Insurance) • Souria Holding (Investment Holding Company) Moreover, the company has been expanding its investment exposure by exploring business opportunities in infrastructure projects under PPP basis. 4 Consultants for Sustainable Development is the leading environmental consulting company in Syria and has earned the pioneering position in the field of environmental studies and assessments. The company is equipped with the most specialized and experienced staff with handson experience in the environment industry. Since its establishment in 2003, CSD has been playing a major role in bringing environmental awareness to the public and private sectors in Syria, providing all aspects of environmental reviews, studies and assessments, in addition to various consulting services for the energy and waste management sectors, allowing leading companies to efficiently implement and complete environmental management solutions. Natha (previously the Technical Engineering division of Builders Company) came as a result of the restructuring done within Alfadel Group to cope with the growth of its technical engineering division. Natha is a specialized company with a team of engineers serving the sectors of civil aviation and radio & TV broadcasting equipment through its advanced expertise in installing, calibrating and maintaining such equipment. Some of the Projects implemented by Natha: Lighting systems for navigation, automatic landing system ILS , laboratory simulator for radar, AFTN communications system, (DVOR / DME) for airports stations: Damascus International Airport, Basel al-Assad Airport, Deir Ezzor, Aleppo International Airport, Qamishli, Palmyra and Al-Tanf site. The company‟s scope of services in the above mentioned projects included civil works, installation, calibration, maintenance and supervision. Naqa2 (previously the water division of Builders Company) came as a result of the Group‟s strategy to cope with the increasing activity and growth of Builders water division. Naqa2 is a specialized water treatment and distribution company created for the purpose of catering to the local needs of the Syrian market. In 2008, the company was awarded the water treatment project of Emaar, one of the largest private sector real-estate projects in Syria. By being awarded, soon after, several contracts with the Water Supply & Sewerage Authority, the company has been steadily pursuing its successful expansion. 5 Generation Alfa S.A. is a Swiss-based wealth management firm dedicated to managing the wealth of Private investors, families and institutions. While the company continually strives for growth and for investment opportunities for its clients, it remains committed to a definite set of ideas: Applying the highest standards of dedicated service, financial expertise, and disciplined portfolio management, in making sure its clients achieve their financial goals. “Capital Preservation and generation of absolute positive return” are the company‟s core management principals. Generation Alfa is a member of the Swiss Association of Asset Managers (www.asg.ch), the leading national trade association of independent asset managers in Switzerland. In 2007, Generation Alfa partnered with Banque Bemo Saudi Fransi Finance (the leading private commercial bank in Syria) and created one of the first investment firms in Syria (Bemo Saudi Fransi Finance) providing financial consulting, brokerage, asset management, and IPO management services. Bemo Saudi Fransi Finance became operational in 2008, and is today the leading company in this sector. In December 2009, Generation Alfa partnered with Arab Finance Corporation sal, the first financial company to be established in Lebanon to further expand and diversify its activities. The companies had decided to join forces through equity participation by Generation Alfa in the capital of Arab Finance Corporation and have agreed to develop the numerous synergies present at the geographical and service offering levels between their respective institutions. The partnership will allow Generation Alfa to strengthen its geographical reach in the Middle East. Technology Systems Int. SAL Based in Lebanon, (wholly owned by Alfadel Group), working in partnership with GlobeCast (the leading satellite service provider in the world and a France Telecom subsidiary) the company caters to the satellite broadcasting needs of the MENA region. 6 Our Scope of Expertise  Agents / Partners of various multinational companies  Water Treatment & Distribution  Satellite Services  Airport, TV & Radio broadcasting equipment  Wealth Management  Environment  Private Equity Investments Our Social Commitment Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) Alfadel Group has strategically positioned its corporate social contribution activities as an essential part of its corporate social responsibility, maximizing its commitment to the social causes of society in the areas of education, culture, sports, environment, society and music. Alfadel Group is a founding member of the UN Global Compact Council in Syria which is a strategic policy initiative for businesses that are committed to aligning their operations and strategies with ten universally accepted principles in the areas of human rights, labor, environment and anticorruption. Support for the United Nations Global Compact Alfadel Group supports the 10 principles of the Global Compact with respect to human rights, labor rights, the protection of the environment and anti-corruption to actively promote our CSR activities. We commit to making the global compact and its principles part of the strategy, culture and day-to-day operations of our Company and to clearly stating this commitment to our employees, partners, clients and the public. Also, we espouse public accountability and transparency and will report our progress publicly. Alfadel Group is always associated with respect for these principles, internationally acceptable working conditions, and environmentally friendly business practices within our entire group of companies. We want our employees, companies & partners to embrace voluntarily our conviction that good corporate social responsibility practices are an integral part of sustainable business development. Significant change is 7 not usually achieved in a single step and our policy of „continuous improvement‟ is based on mutual trust and cooperation. We are prepared to engage on a Long-term basis with partners that show a willingness to improve. Our Group Chairman, Mr. Adib Alfadel attended the UN Global Compact Leaders Summit 2010, June 24-25 in New York & was a guest speaker on” CNBC Live” discussing the “Syrian Young Growing Market” Social Responsibility & Environment Alfadel Group had huge plans for this year, but due to current situation in Syria all our plans had to be put on hold. We hope we can resume all our planned activities soon. We hosted the UN Global Compact Council in Syria over a luncheon in honor of UNDP‟s Executive Board visit to Syria. Alfadel Group has financially supported & supplied two (2) schools is the area of Ain elJash, Syria.  Ain El Jash Elementary School  The Martyr Mohamad Alfadel Middle & High School Since 2002 until today, Alfadel Group has provided & still is providing all school needed supplies to the two above mentioned schools, including computers, printers, copiers, dictionaries, white boards, ceiling fans, draperies, heaters, lab supplies, exercise equipments, students & teachers desks & chairs. Alfadel Group sponsored for several years The Junior Chamber International” Business Lecture Series”& also sponsored the “Jazz Festival” for couple of years & has also sponsored “Syria Trust For Developments” in several of their cultural & economical venues. Alfadel Group financially supports the “Environmental Society for Sustainable Development”, a 260 member organization from various local sectors.  We have raised awareness in the public sector towards environmental challenges mainly in schools, communities & stake holders.  We have conducted public awareness campaigns and field activities like cleaning the Barada river basin.  We have made field studies concerning waist minimization Alfadel Group Co-founded Juzour Foundation in 2011, a foundation dedicated to protect, preserve and promote Syria's cultural heritage. 8 Alfadel Group supports the ten principles of the United Nations Global Compact Human Rights: Principle 1: Support and respects the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights: All employees in our companies are at least paid minimum wage. We provide employment contracts stating terms & conditions of service & we follow all local labor laws. Principle 2: Make sure that we are not complicit in human abuses: We have offices in multiple counties & employ people from different nationalities. We make sure all our employees are treated equally & paid based on merit, experience & quality of work performed & results of evaluations regardless of nationality or gender. Labor: Principle 3: Business should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining: Alfadel Group always operates according to local laws, legislative requirements and all local standards for all our offices & companies regardless of their location. We respect the freedom of associations Principle 4: The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor: All Alfadel Group‟s companies comply with national local labor laws in the countries of operations. We do not allow compulsory or forced labor. Principle 5: The effective abolition of child labor: Alfadel Group operates within set principles of the international child labor protection laws. We do not employ personnel below the minimum local legal age of employment. We do not allow child labor. Principle 6: The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation: Alfadel Group does not support discrimination of any sort when it comes to recruitment & employment based on race, color, gender, religion, national origin, disability or political affiliation. 9 Environment: Principle 7: Business should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges: Alfadel Group is very active towards the environment; we encourage and support a clean environment. We enforce and implement all possible appropriate measures. we have organized public sector awareness campaigns in schools and communities. Principle 8: Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibilities: Alfadel Group is very active when it comes to the environment, we built the fist private sector sorting plant in Syria and in the region with 500 tons capacity. Principle 9: Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies: Alfadel Group conducted studies in five governorates in Syria (Damascus Countryside, Hasakeh, Rakkah, Sweida and Daraa) to introduce the integral solid waste. Anti-Corruption: Principle 10: Business should work against corruption in all it forms, including extortion and bribery: Alfadel Group maintains very high standards of ethics and integrity in all our contractual agreements, dealings and companies. We work very hard to maintain authentic and open relationships based on respect and mutual trust. We honor all our commitments, internally, externally, verbal or written as per our motto: “We only promise what we can deliver and we honor our promises” Presented by Alfadel Group August 2012 10
