COMMONWEALTH BANK’S COMMITMENT TO SUSTAINABILITY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 commbank.com.au/sustainability 2012 HIGHLIGHTS In FY12, we reduced 2.83 our greenhouse Over gases by more than 14 million Main Financial Institution for 23,500 customers 1 IN 3 Australians* Products Per Customer (No.1 among peers in Australia) Over 1 million home loan customers tCO2-e As at 30 June 2012, 80% $200 we exceeded our target and created Over 51,000 employees globally employee engagement score 30.9% women in Executive Manager and above roles 354 Indigenous career opportunities million+ community contribution $7,113m 800,000 shareholders 18.6% $3.34 Return On dividend per share Net profit after income tax (cash) Australia’s 3rd largest tax payer Equity (ROE) UP 4% UP 4% *Results presentation for the Full Year ended 30 June 2012 2 | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 Share this report commbank.com.au/sustainability2012 CONTENTS About this report 4 A message from our CEO 5 Who we are 7 Our approach to sustainability 9 Our refreshed reporting approach 10 Our sustainability scorecard 11 Our five focus areas: Sustainable Business Practices 12 Responsible Financial Services 14 Engaged and Talented People 19 Community Contribution and Action 23 Environmental Stewardship 29 Our community partners 34 For further information 35 3 | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 Share this report commbank.com.au/sustainability2012 ABOUT THIS REPORT ABOUT THIS REPORT This is the Commonwealth Bank Group’s (the Group’s) fourth annual Sustainability Report. The Report outlines our approach to sustainability, together with our key initiatives and achievements during the 2011–12 financial year. AUDIENCE AND SCOPE ASSURANCE MORE INFORMATION The Sustainability Report 2012 is written for our The key metrics in the Sustainability Scorecard on You can find a range of case studies on our customers, employees, shareholders, community page 11 and the Metrics and Definitions at Sustainability Report microsite commbank.com.au/ partners and professional groups – everyone who has commbank.com.au/sustainability2012 have been sustainability2012 and more information about an interest in the Group’s approach to the sustainability independently reviewed and assured by KPMG. our approach and initiatives at commbank.com.au/ of our business. sustainability The report covers the activities of companies wholly The following Commonwealth Bank Group’s wholly owned by the Group within Australia, from 1 July 2011 owned subsidiaries also publish their own reports: to 30 June 2012. ◆◆ Bank of Western Australia (Bankwest): Sustainability Snapshot at commbank.com.au/sustainability ◆◆ Colonial First State Global Asset Management (CFSGAM): Responsible Investment Report at: cfsgam.com.au/RI.aspx ◆◆ ASB Bank: ASB in Your Community at asb.co.nz/community-and-sponsorship/ corporate-responsibility YOUR FEEDBACK CONNECT EMAIL WRITE If you have any feedback on Connect with us through Email us at: Write to us at: our sustainability approach and social networks: sustainability@cba.com.au Corporate Sustainability reporting, we would love to hear facebook.com/commonwealthbank Commonwealth Bank from you. twitter.com/commbank Level 5, Tower 1 Google+ 201 Sussex Street blog.commbank.com.au Sydney NSW 2000 4 | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 Share this report commbank.com.au/sustainability2012 A MESSAGE FROM OUR CEO A message from our CEO I’m pleased to present our fourth annual sustainability report. Sustainability has been at the forefront of our minds even more than usual recently, as we reflect on 100 years of history of the Commonwealth Bank Group. We take pride in this history. But we also acknowledge the responsibility that it places on all of us currently working in the Group. During the last century, the Group has played a critical role in the lives of millions of Australian customers, employees and shareholders, as well as in the broader community. We see it as our responsibility to ensure that this role continues for the next century and beyond. For the Group, sustainability means building a successful business today while ensuring long-term value for our customers and shareholders, as well as to the wider community. As such, sustainability is integral to the customer focus to which we aspire across the Group. “Sustainability is integral to the customer focus to which we aspire across the Group.” 5 | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 Share this report commbank.com.au/sustainability2012 A MESSAGE FROM OUR CEO Community contribution and action “As the temporary custodians We have a proud legacy of supporting Australian communities. In September 2011, of this Group, we have a I was delighted to announce our commitment to invest an additional $100 million over the next 10 years for our people to further support our community work. I am responsibility to make it even particularly pleased that the Group is now matching dollar-for-dollar contributions made by our people to the Staff Community Fund, the oldest – and now the largest – workplace-giving program in Australia. better for future generations.” Environmental stewardship As one of Australia’s largest organisations, we are keenly aware of the importance of mitigating our environmental impact. In the reporting period we have continued to reduce our environmental footprint. We are now on track to meet our carbon reduction target of 20% by June 2013 (from a 2008/09 baseline). We also provide smart Sustainable business practices solutions to help our people and customers reduce their own carbon footprint. Sound risk and financial management remains at the core of all our business activities. Our strength and stability rest on robust corporate governance, a strong Our Board and management team are acutely aware that as the temporary custodians and flexible balance sheet, transparent reporting and, above all, a culture of integrity of this Group, we have a responsibility to make it even better for future generations of and risk awareness. This all ensures that we can continue to support our customers, customers, shareholders and employees. shareholders and employees for the long-term. Responsible financial services Providing responsible financial services and ensuring high customer satisfaction remain key priorities. We offer high-quality and innovative financial solutions to our diverse customer base, while continuously improving our technology and maintaining the highest levels of integrity and customer service. We know what to do and we have Ian Narev the right people with the right mindset to make it happen. Chief Executive Officer Commonwealth Bank Group Engaged and talented people Our people are central to our success; so we continue to invest in people development and talent management. We are also dedicated to creating a diverse and safe workplace where our people are proud to work. During this reporting period we launched our new People and Culture Survey to give us insights into how to continuously improve the engagement of our people. Our latest employee engagement result is 80 per cent, placing us within the top quartile of the global industry benchmark. 6 | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 Share this report commbank.com.au/sustainability2012 WHO WE ARE Strong contributor to Australian economy WHO WE ARE Established in 1912, the Group is Australia’s leading provider Where does our income go? of integrated financial services. With established businesses in FY 2012 ($bn) Australia, New Zealand, Europe and the Asia-Pacific region, Loan impairment we have over 51,000 employees globally who serve over Expenses Cost of lending 14 million customers. across the economy Serving 14 million Our products and services include retail banking, premium banking, business banking, customers institutional banking, funds management, superannuation, insurance, investment Tax paid and stockbroking. Our brands include Commonwealth Bank, Colonial First State, Colonial First State Global Asset Management, First State Investments, CommInsure, 4.3 1.1 Australia’s 3rd largest tax payer1 CBA Advice, ASB, Sovereign, CommSec, Bankwest, PT Bank Commonwealth, PT Commonwealth Life and PT First State Investments Indonesia. We are Australia’s most profitable bank, with a strong balance sheet and we are 2.7 one of only a number of global banks in the ‘AA’ ratings category. We help drive the 4.9 Australian economy by: ◆◆ Providing cost-effective lending; 1.8 ◆◆ ◆◆ Paying strong returns to deposit holders; Enabling customers to confidently transact; 5.3 ◆◆ Helping protect and enhance our customers’ wealth; and Salaries Retained ◆◆ Generating returns for millions of Australians who own our shares directly or Employing for capital through funds. 51,000 people and growth Dividends $110 billion in new 75% of profit returned lending in 2012 $ billion 2012 2011 2010 to 800,000 shareholders and Super Funds Tax paid 2.7 3.0 2.9 Dividends paid to shareholders 5.3 5.0 4.5 1 Most recent annual results data amongst ASX 100 companies. Sourced from Bloomberg 1 August 2012. Salaries and related expenses paid to our employees 4.9 4.9 4.6 7 | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 Share this report commbank.com.au/sustainability2012 WHO WE ARE OUR VISION OUR STRATEGY OUR MARKET SHARE Our vision is to be Australia’s finest financial services Our strategy remains focused on creating long-term ◆◆ We have Australia’s largest banking customer base, organisation by excelling in customer service. value for our customers, our shareholders and our with the most points of access in the country. We aspire to: people. ◆◆ We are Australia’s leading home loan provider, Our overarching priority is Customer Focus. This with over one million home loan customers. ◆◆ Having engaged, passionate and valued people; means we will continue to focus on our customers’ ◆◆ We are one of Australia’s leading providers of ◆◆ Providing a service experience that our customers commercial and business lending. financial goals to enhance their lives and businesses. appreciate; To support our Customer Focus, our strategy is ◆◆ We are one of the largest life insurers in Australia, ◆◆ Delivering outperforming returns to our with over $1.4 billion in-force annual premiums (as at shareholders; and supported by four capabilities: 30 June 2012). ◆◆ Being respected and admired in our community. ◆◆ People: having a vibrant and customer-focused ◆◆ We are number one in household deposits culture and people; in Australia. ◆◆ Technology: being a world leader in applying ◆◆ Commonwealth Bank’s Colonial First State’s retail technology to financial services; platform, FirstChoice, has the largest market share of We aim to deliver ◆◆ Strength: having a strong and flexible balance sheet; and the $433 billion platforms market according to Plan for Life’s March 2012 quarterly market share report. outperforming total ◆◆ Productivity: continuously simplifying the way ◆◆ We are one of the largest listed companies on the we do things. shareholder returns. These capabilities support our continued growth Australian Securities Exchange and are included in the Morgan Stanley Capital Global Index. within and outside Australia. 8 | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 Share this report commbank.com.au/sustainability2012 OUR approach OUR APPROACH TO SUSTAINABILITY Sustainability means building a successful business today while ensuring long-term value for our customers and the wider community. ALIGNMENT TO THE GROUP’S STRATEGY STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT Making sustainability part of everything we do allows Over the years, our sustainability programs and To help us understand the most important issues us to successfully manage our environment, social initiatives have helped the Group: facing our business and our industry, we have worked and governance (ESG) risks, and helps us maximise with internal and external stakeholders to revisit our ◆◆ Excel in customer service; the opportunities that come from working in a rapidly approach to sustainability. ◆◆ Develop a diverse and talented workforce; changing operating environment. In this reporting period, we held round table ◆◆ Contribute to the wider community; and A sustainable approach makes good business sense. discussions with community partners and ESG ◆◆ Deliver superior returns to shareholders. analysts, and internal sessions with senior executives across the Group. This resulted in our revised Board endorsed sustainability strategic framework, which helps us respond most effectively to our material issues. For details of our material issues, please visit: commbank.com.au/sustainability SUSTAINABILITY AWARDS AND RECOGNITIONS 10 year Sustainability Achievement Award 9 | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 Share this report commbank.com.au/sustainability2012 OUR APPROACH OUR REFRESHED REPORTING APPROACH In line with our revised sustainability strategic framework, we changed our reporting structure to clearly articulate our key WE MAKE SUSTAINABILITY areas of focus. PART OF EVERYTHING WE DO We continue to review the guidance provided through the voluntary sustainability reporting frameworks, such as the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI), the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) and AA1000. We are a signatory to the Global Compact and committed to communicating our progress on integrating the Global Compact OUR SUSTAINABILITY FRAMEWORK principles in the areas of human rights, labour, the environment and anti-corruption. This report fulfils our commitment to reporting as part of this important initiative. We Sustainable We embed sustainable business practices across our also continue to ensure our performance indicators align to our strategy, our material Business Practices operations through strong governance, established issues and our remuneration framework. management systems, responsible procurement and transparent reporting. Commonwealth Bank Commonwealth Bank Commonwealth Bank Sustainability Report 2009 Sustainability Report 2010 Sustainability Report 2011 Responsible We take a responsible approach to the provision of Financial Services financial products and services. Engaged and We attract, develop and retain a diverse, engaged COMMONWEALTH BANK’S COMMITMENT TO SUSTAINABILITY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 Talented People and talented workforce. commbank.com.au/sustainability Sustainability Sustainability Sustainability Sustainability Report 2009 Report 2010 Report 2011 Report 2012 Community We make impactful contributions to our communities Contribution and through mutually beneficial partnerships. Action Environmental We are proactive in measuring and reducing our own Stewardship environmental footprint and provide smart solutions to help our customers and employees reduce their own. 10 | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 Share this report commbank.com.au/sustainability2012 OUR SCORECARD OUR SUSTAINABILITY SCORECARD Additional metrics, associated definitions and the KPMG assurance statement can be found at www.commbank.com.au/sustainability2012 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 Customer Satisfaction Retail Banking Roy Morgan Research MFI % 79.0 75.2 75.6 73.0 70.1 Rank # 2nd 4th 2nd 3rd Equal 3rd Business and Private Banking DBM Business Financial Services Monitor MFI Avg. score 7.3 7.1 7.0 – – Rank # Equal 1st Equal 2nd Equal 1st – – Wealth Management Wealth Insights Platform Service Level Survey Avg. score 7.69 7.79 7.70 7.59 7.70 Rank # 2nd 1st 1st 1st 1st People Engagement Employee Engagement Index Score(1) % 80 n/a n/a n/a n/a Employee Turnover (voluntary) % 12.90 12.65 12.73 11.37 18.45 Diversity Women in Executive Manager and above roles % 30.9 28.2 26.3 26.1 Safety and Well-being Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate (LTIFR) Rate 2.5 2.5 2.9 2.4 3.1 Absenteeism (Average days per FTE) Rate 6.2 6.0 5.9 5.9 6.5 Environment Greenhouse Gas Emissions (tCO2-e) Scope 1 emissions tCO2-e 8,941 9,835 10,248 12,018 10,933 Scope 2 emissions tCO2-e 118,047 137,948 142,218 139,303 140,571 Scope 3 emissions tCO2-e 20,137 22,885 24,340 21,431 21,892 Emissions per FTE tCO2-e 4.7 5.2 5.5 5.7 5.6 Financial Literacy Programs School banking students (active) # 191,416 140,280 92,997 91,601 108,001 StartSmart students (booked) # 235,735 200,081 119,669 51,426 47,918 1. In 2012 the Group moved the people and culture survey administration to a new provider. No prior year data is available. 11 | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 Share this report commbank.com.au/sustainability2012 SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS PRACTICES SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS PRACTICES REMUNERATION In the reporting period, markets continued to be volatile due to ongoing turmoil in Europe and inconsistent signs of economic recovery in the United States. We Outstanding governance is essential to good corporate have demonstrated strong discipline throughout and will continue to do so in the practice. The Group’s experienced management team 2012–13 financial year. For example, in the 2012-13 financial year, there are no base remuneration increases for our most senior leaders. For most other employees, has a strong corporate governance culture, embedding salary increases are lower than in previous years. However, we continue to ensure sound management systems, responsible procurement strong performance is appropriately recognised. We believe this serves the best and transparent reporting across all our operations. interests of the Group and our people, customers and shareholders. SHAREHOLDER COMMUNICATIONS AND DISCLOSURES RESPONSIBLE PROCUREMENT We believe it is important to be transparent about how we are working to Our Procurement Policy requires our employees to: be a sustainable organisation. This transparency and the role we play in the wider community are essential parts of how we do business. ◆◆ Adopt strategies to avoid unnecessary consumption and manage demand; ◆◆ Foster a viable market for sustainable goods and services; and ◆◆ Support suppliers who are socially responsible and adopt ethical practices. In May 2012, the Group developed a new way to assess sustainability risks and We cater to a range of stakeholders with a supplier performance by leveraging our centralised procurement system. suite of reporting mechanisms. For more Through the Group’s centralised procurement system, suppliers tendering for information, please visit: work must provide information about their sustainability practices. The information provided on topics such as occupational health and safety, risk management, commbank.com.au/sustainability-reporting human rights, governance, community investment and environmental performance automatically forms part of the selection process. 12 | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 Share this report commbank.com.au/sustainability2012 Offshore, the Group continues to use the Hong Kong-based International Procurement Office Case study (IPO) to procure goods for our Australian business. In the reporting period, the IPO conducted social compliance audits on all suppliers it engaged via Intertek, an external sustainability Account Switching SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS PRACTICES compliance auditor. In 2011 some competition advocates were calling for improved account ‘switching’ arrangements RISK MANAGEMENT to allow customers to transfer between banks The Group’s Risk Management division develops the risk frameworks that allow the Group to more easily. take on well understood and managed exposures to credit, market, operational, compliance and insurance risks. These exposures are consistent with the Group’s risk appetite, which is approved Whilst the Group had already established switching processes to by the Board. help account transfers, we thought there could be further customer benefit if we streamlined the process. In 2011, the Institutional Banking and Markets (IB&M) division acknowledged Environment, Social and Governance (ESG) risks in its formal Risk Appetite Statement. One concern was a related proposal to introduce transaction Account Number Portability (ANP) – an idea that would have added very little benefit above the revised switching system while GOVERNMENT AND INDUSTRY ENGAGEMENT at the same time resulting in system costs for both employers and The pace of regulatory reform increased during 2011–12. Due to the continuing effects of the global government agencies (Australian Taxation Office, Department of financial crisis (GFC) and international regulatory responses, the financial services sector remained Social Security, Medicare) as well as financial institutions. the subject of regulatory focus. The Group made a factual case, outlining the potential impacts During 2011–12, we aimed to minimise unintended consequences of legislation and sought to of ANP, to former Treasury Secretary Bernie Fraser who was influence government to establish efficient, cost-effective policies. To achieve this, we engaged evaluating the proposal. Subsequently the Fraser report refrained directly with government on a range of public policy issues, including: from recommending ANP. ◆◆ The government’s Competition and ◆◆ Stronger superannuation reforms; John McLenaghan, Commonwealth Bank Head of Government Sustainable Banking System package; ◆◆ Insurance cover reviews, following an & Industry Affairs commented: ◆◆ Consumer credit reforms relating to credit increased number of natural disasters; cards, investment lending and reverse ◆◆ Bank funding; mortgages; ◆◆ The Financial Claims Scheme; “We see our role as assisting the Capital proposals for the financial services ◆◆ industry, including international reforms ◆◆ Price signalling; development of sensible public policy Privacy reforms; arising from Basel III; ◆◆ ◆◆ Account-switching reforms; and that is efficient as well as effective – ◆◆ Future of Financial Advice (FOFA) reforms; ◆◆ Personal property securities. and maximises customer benefit.” Our senior executives regularly meet with a range of stakeholders, including Members of Parliament and industry regulators such as the Australian Prudential Regulation Authority (APRA), Australian Securities and Investments Commission (ASIC) and the Reserve Bank of Australia. 13 | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 Share this report commbank.com.au/sustainability2012 RESPONSIBLE FINANCIAL SERVICES RESPONSIBLE FINANCIAL SERVICES We take a responsible approach to providing financial HIGH CUSTOMER SATISFACTION products and services to our customers. Our customers Customer satisfaction is one of our key performance indicators. In 2012, we continued to progress towards our customer satisfaction goals across our key business are at the centre of what we do. We will continue to focus segments. on our customers’ financial goals to help them move forward in their lives and their businesses. Retail Banking During the 2012 financial year, we attained our highest score in customer satisfaction since the inception of the survey for retail customers who use us as their main financial RESPONDING TO CUSTOMER NEEDS institution. We also achieved our narrowest gap to the leader (among the four major Supporting customers in financial difficulty banks in Australia) and are now 2nd among the four major banks.1 Over the last year, continuing uncertainty in the economic environment has had an impact on many of our customers. In response, we expanded Retail customer satisfaction our Customer Assist team to 100 members. We also provide Case 90 Peer 1 CBA Peer 2 Peer 3 % Satisfied ('Very’ or 'Fairly’ Satisfied) Management Officers who give personalised support to customers who are experiencing hardship. 80 1.4% 9.8% The Group also supports a number of customer segments with a wide 12.3% range of fee-free and discounted financial services. In the year to 30 June 70 2012, we have forgone over $170 million in revenue to support low-income earners and the not-for-profit sector. 60 Jan 06 Jan 09 Jul 12 1 Roy Morgan Research Main Financial Institution (MFI) Retail Customer Satisfaction. Australian population 14+, % “Very Satisfied” or “Fairly Satisfied” with relationship with that MFI. 6-month rolling average. Note the institution definitions were updated in March 2012. 14 | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 Share this report commbank.com.au/sustainability2012 Business Banking A CAN APPROACH The DBM Business Financial Services Monitor customer satisfaction results for the In May 2012 we launched our new brand campaign, Can. year show that we were equal first amongst our peer group with a satisfaction rating of 7.3 out of 10. We also ranked outright or equal first across all four DBM Business Can is about having a vibrant, positive attitude. It’s a belief that we can have a Financial Service Monitor customer segments since November 2011. positive impact on everyone we meet and everything we do. It’s a belief that we can enable our customers to move forward and achieve their financial goals. Roy Morgan Main Financial Institution Customer Satisfaction results Business customersatisfaction Business customer satisfaction Examples of our Can approach include: our leading-edge core banking 2012 8 79.0 Commbank platform; our real-time banking; everyday settlement and CommBank Kaching, Peer Average our smartphone payment app. RESPONSIBLE FINANCIAL SERVICES 2011 75.2 2010 75.6 7 50 60 70 80 % Revolutionising the 6 Jan 06 Financial Services Monitor DBM Business Jun 09 Jul12 customer experience We recently revolutionised the point-of-sale experience, 2012 7.3 Wealth Management by introducing Pi, Albert and Leo. For Wealth 2011 7.1 Insights Management, customer satisfaction is measured by the Wealth Pi enables application developers and businesses to Platform Service Level survey. This survey measures satisfaction of financial advisers easily create product applications for business use and 2010 7.0 with the service of master trusts/wraps in Australia. We changed the way we calculate distribute them through CommBank Pi’s AppBank to satisfaction 0 in this reporting 2 6 of our two platforms, period and now4include the average 8 merchants. FirstChoice and FirstWrap, rather thanAvg. score only. In 2012 we achieved a FirstChoice Albert, a new Android based omni-commerce device, features combined rating of 7.69 (out of 10) placing us second amongst the four major banks an interactive touchscreen which provides secure pin for adviser satisfaction. interface, printer, and merchant terminal functionality. WealthInsights Insights Wealth Platform Platform Service Service Level survey Level survey Leo attaches to several compatible Apple devices to enable Pi to transform them into a fully 2012 7.69 functioning merchant terminal. 2011 7.79 Pi is already available for developers, Leo is currently in pilot, whilst Albert will 2010 7.70 be rolled out in 2013. Find out how we are revolutionising the point-of-sale experience at commbank.com.au/pi 0 2 4 6 8 10 Avg. score 15 | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 Share this report commbank.com.au/sustainability2012 Case study Providing superior customer service through technology The challenge In the reporting period, the Group ran a competition, asking our people how they can use technology and communications to improve the customer experience. TAKING CUSTOMER FEEDBACK ON BOARD RESPONSIBLE FINANCIAL SERVICES The idea We actively encourage feedback from our customers and regard complaints as Alain Rondot, Enterprise Services Executive Change Manager, and opportunities that enable us to improve our customer relationships and our business. Brian Moseley, Retail Banking Services General Manager Channel Customer feedback is addressed at the first point of contact where possible or Development, submitted the winning idea of offering video conferencing escalated to our Group Customer Relations team, a standalone business unit focused to our branch customers so they could access expert advice more easily. on resolving issues quickly and transparently. Customers can provide feedback through a range of channels, including a freecall phone number, in person, via Video conferencing helps reduce the carbon footprint of both our staff mail or email, online and via social media such as Twitter or Facebook. and customers and saves them time in the process. Our customers can talk with off-site specialists regardless of their locations. In September 2010, we introduced Firstpoint, a frontline customer feedback management system requiring employees across the business to record compliments Our progress and complaints. We amended the definition of what amounts to a complaint to James Twiss, General Manager Cross Business Unit Projects worked include comments indicating a customer was seeking a response from us. As a result, with Alain and Brian, investigating the feasibility, funding, and possible Firstpoint recorded an increase in the number of complaints whilst compliments also implementation of video conferencing in branches. continued to rise. We are now focusing on further training staff in recognising and In 2012, we implemented a video conferencing pilot program in 22 managing complaints in line with our commitment to exceptional customer service. branches across the country. The Group is now looking to expand the service to more locations. Complaints and 2012 2011 2010 Compliments Trevor Harrison, Branch Manager, from Roma, Queensland said he had received very positive feedback from customers about the initiative. Complaints received 268,756 137,910 32,213 “With video conferencing, my customers can easily talk to someone about their specialised needs, such as financial planning or agribusiness. Compliments received 11,337 9,389 3,371 It means they no longer have to schedule appointments around the time Complaint to compliment ratio 23.7 14.7 9.6 a specialist is in the branch,” he said. Note: All complaints based on internal dispute resolution cases only. Data source: Satisfy4 (2009–10, 2010–11), Firstpoint (2010–11, 2011–12) Until September 2010, compliments and complaints were centrally recorded through the Satisfy database by the Group Customer Relations team. 16 | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 Share this report commbank.com.au/sustainability2012 Supporting customers with a disability As outlined in our Disability Strategy, we are committed to continually improving access to banking services for customers with a disability, including access to branches, on-line banking, EFTPOS, telephone banking and ATMs. This commitment is supported by our Disability Action Plan (DAP). As part of our DAP, available at commbank.com.au/sustainability, we are developing a range of initiatives including: ◆◆ ATM screens providing better contrast and larger fonts; RESPONSIBLE FINANCIAL SERVICES ◆◆ A new NetBank User Guide for screen-readers; and ◆◆ New support resources for customer-facing staff to raise awareness and provide practical information to support customers with a disability Donna Purcell, Disability Support Manager Case study Focus on accessibility The challenge Our response teams. We will continue to work with experts like Vision Like many Commonwealth Bank customers, Bruce “We took Bruce’s complaint very seriously,” said Australia to continually improve access to NetBank and Maguire uses NetBank to do most of his banking. As Kathryn Kelly, Executive Manager, Online Solutions and other online services for customers with a disability. Bruce is blind, he uses a screen reader and Braille User Experience Design. The Group’s DAP outlines our commitment and output to access his banking information. “We worked with Bruce to find out which areas he was strategies for supporting our people and customers In November 2011, after one of our regular upgrades having difficulty accessing and then we worked with an with a disability and continues to guide our programs to NetBank, our vision-impaired customers who Accessibility Project Manager from Vision Australia to and initiatives. Donna Purcell, our Disability Support use screen-reading technologies experienced some help identify the problem and to work with us to find a Manager, said: problems accessing NetBank. long term solution.” “In my day to day role, I am inspired by the Group’s “I was very frustrated and inconvenienced when I Our progress commitment to addressing issues related to disability. logged onto NetBank only to find it was no longer The Group has continued to implement other initiatives I can see the impact of my role in very practical ways as working with my screen-reader,” Bruce said. “So I to make NetBank more accessible to vision-impaired I advise and support the implementation of strategies called Commonwealth Bank to let them know.” users, including a new instructional guide for people across the business.” using screen-reading technology, web accessibility workshops and accessibility tool training for our online 17 | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 Share this report commbank.com.au/sustainability2012 INVESTING RESPONSIBLY Colonial First State Global Asset Management (CFSGAM) seeks to consider ESG issues in every investment process across the organisation. CFSGAM directly engages with company Case study management and directors about any issues affecting shareholder interests and long-term shareholder value. CFSGAM was one of the first global investment managers to Brisbane Airport Corporation (BAC) become a signatory to the Principles for Responsible Investment water efficiency program, Qld RESPONSIBLE FINANCIAL SERVICES (PRI) in early 2007. In 2010–11, the latest UNPRI survey result, CFSGAM sits in the top quartile in five of the six principles relative CFSGAM is a foundation investor in Brisbane comprising four related streams of work: to global investment managers. Airport Corporation (BAC). Brisbane Airport is greater water use efficiencies, reduction in For more information: cfsgam.com.au/RI.aspx Australia’s third largest airport by passenger wastage through leaks, conversion from movements. In 2011, 20 million passengers potable to recycled water use wherever went through Brisbane Airport terminals and practical, and stakeholder/tenant engagement 420 businesses and nearly 17,000 employees and education to ensure behavioural change are on site every day. The vital role BAC away from an over-reliance on water. plays in the Queensland economy means Following successful implementation of the environmental and community issues are strategy, in the period 2004-05 to 2008-09, critical to its future growth. BAC reduced potable water consumption by In 2004 with an annual water consumption 78%, despite growth in passenger numbers of 1,620ML per year, Brisbane Airport and increased commercial and construction was among the top ten water users activities. The cost saving in 2008-09 was in Queensland. At the time, this was $2.3M, and the projected annual saving exacerbated by the worst drought in South thereafter $2.4M. Non-monetary benefits East Queensland in over 150 years. include strengthened reputation through winning International Water Association CFSGAM advocated early on the need to Awards and improved stakeholder relations, change existing practices to avoid rapid and as well as risk mitigation through weaning off unsustainable growth in water consumption. reliance on potable water. A Sustainable Water Management strategy was devised with an implementation plan 18 | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 Share this report commbank.com.au/sustainability2012 ENGAGED AND TALENTED PEOPLE We continue to foster a culture that 80% supports our people in achieving our goal of becoming Australia’s finest financial services organisation through People ENGAGED AND TALENTED PEOPLE excelling in customer service. We have over 51,000 employees, each of who Engagement contributes to make us the organisation we are today. Score We remain committed to making the Group a great place to work and we aim to create an environment where our people feel engaged in their role, As at 30 June passionate about our organisational goals, and valued for their contribution. Women in Executive Percentage Percentage of women in Executive of women inManager Executive LostTime Lost Time Injury Frequency Injury Frequency Rate Rate Lost Time (LTIFR) Injury (LTIFR) Frequency Rate (LTIF Successful people will lead to success for our customers, shareholders and rolesabove Manager and aboveand Manager roles and (%)roles above our community over the long term. 2012 2012 30.9 30.9 2012 2012 2.5 2.5 In the reporting period we have continued to put programs and initiatives in place to attract, foster and 2011 2011 28.2 28.2 2011 2011 2.5 2.5 retain a diverse, engaged and talented workforce. 2010 2010 26.3 26.3 2010 2010 2.9 2009 2009 26.1 26.1 2009 2009 2.4 2.4 0 5 10 0 15 20 5 25 10 15 30 35 20 25 30 35 0 1 0 2 1 3 2 % % Rate Rate 19 | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 Share this report commbank.com.au/sustainability2012 EMPLOYEE ENGAGEMENT As we strive to achieve our vision, it is not only what we deliver, but also how we deliver that will determine our success. The Group has a vibrant, customer focused and high integrity culture, one in which our people are proud to work. Case study Each year we seek feedback from our people through the annual People and Culture Survey. In 2012 we Challenging unconscious bias achieved an overall engagement score of 80%. This is Our approach “We sponsor women in IT events in high schools a Global Best in Class result. A key factor in the Group winning the Catalyst Award and universities, run mentoring programs for senior was the roll out of a comprehensive Unconscious female leaders, track the application process for DIVERSITY Bias Leadership Program to 2,000 senior leaders, females applying for senior leadership roles, and The Group is committed to leveraging the diverse which addressed unconscious bias in the ensure there are females on all interview panels, ENGAGED AND TALENTED PEOPLE backgrounds, experiences and perspectives of our workplace. The program ensured leaders gained in line with our Appointment to Role policy.” people to provide excellent customer service to an a greater understanding of the active role they play in promoting a diverse and inclusive workplace Our progress equally diverse community. Our Diversity Policy and Steve said many of the actions from the through their actions and behaviours. Strategy outline how we are achieving this through a Unconscious Bias Leadership Program were focus on four key areas with measurable objectives. Our commitment simple and easy to implement once recognised Steve McGregor, Executive General Manager, and discussed. 1. Diversity in Leadership: Information Technology, participated in the Our goal is to increase the representation of women “Ensuring diversity on interview panels and program in 2011 and is the Executive Sponsor at Executive Manager and above level from 26.6% in candidate pools, trialling blind CVs where of the Enterprise Services Diversity Council. December 2009 to 35% by December 2014. We are cultural and gender references are removed progressing well towards this goal and as at 30 June 2012, “Driving cultural change is about role modelling from shortlisted CVs, recognising cultural days, women represented 30.9% of our people at this level. what you expect from others and holding people and the distribution of bias help cards to all accountable for the changes we expect to see,” people managers have been effective in raising Our programs, which include raising the awareness of said Steve. awareness and driving change,” he said. the impact of bias in the workplace, are helping us to achieve our goal and were recognised in 2012 with “Attracting female employees to traditionally male Retaining talented female employees is also a the prestigious global Catalyst Award for gender diversity IT areas remains a challenge for us, one that we’re focus area, and the Enterprise Services Diversity keen to go after. We’ve implemented a number of Council is implementing strategies to support and the Employer of Choice for Women citation from the initiatives internally and externally to strengthen our female employees to progress their careers and Equal Opportunity for Women in the Workplace Agency female talent pipeline,” he said. see IT as a sustainable career path. (EOWA). 20 | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 Share this report commbank.com.au/sustainability2012 2. Respect and Inclusion: Productivity is a Key Performance Indicator for all senior management and to further Providing an inclusive environment for all our people regardless of ethnicity, gender, sexual encourage our staff to embrace productivity, we have added it as a new category in the orientation, age, disability, family status, religious beliefs, perspectives, experience or other CEO Awards program, alongside outstanding customer service. ideologies is important to us. In 2012 we achieved our goal to maintain Best in Class levels The Productivity Award aims to recognise our employees who implement effective and for respect and inclusion, as measured in our annual People and Culture Survey. sustainable productivity improvements. 3. Diversity Support: For further information on how we are bringing our productivity focus to life, please As one of Australia’s largest employers and providers of financial services, we have a refer to our Results presentation for the year ended 30 June 2012 available at responsibility to implement strategies to improve workforce participation and financial commbank.com.au/shareholders pathways for people with a disability. This platform forms the foundation for our Disability Action Plan, which is progressing on track. Integrating our HR systems In this reporting period, we have continued to use technology as a way to enhance our 4. Adaptable Work Practices: people’s productivity. Our new HR platform, PeopleLink, integrates people processes to Being adaptable in the way we work helps us to meet the needs of our business, help us consistently and proactively manage the capabilities and careers of our people people and customers. Flexible work arrangements provide a way of recognising and whilst supporting a culture that ensures we meet our customer satisfaction goals. accommodating individual circumstances whilst responding to business needs. ENGAGED AND TALENTED PEOPLE PeopleLink now includes Performance Management, Remuneration Review, Talent & In 2012, our People and Culture Survey results showed that 87% of our people agreed or Succession Management and Volunteering modules. Learning Management, Recruitment strongly agreed their managers allowed them the flexibility to meet their work goals and and Onboarding are scheduled to be included in the next financial year. personal needs. PRODUCTIVITY LEADERSHIP AND TALENT DEVELOPMENT In April 2012, we elevated productivity as a strategic priority. Productivity is about Our leaders play a critical role in driving the Group’s performance and strengthening continuously improving what we do to make things simple and easy for our customers our culture. and our people. In June 2011, we launched the Executive Managers Talent Program, a comprehensive We are driving productivity improvements through: Group-wide development program offered to select Executive Managers across the Group. Twelve months in length, the program aims to develop participants’ leadership ◆◆ Leveraging technology; experiences and prepare them for broader and more complex roles. ◆◆ Process transformation; In the reporting period, we also continued to roll out skillBUILDER, an online coaching ◆◆ Continuous improvement; tool for our Retail Banking Services team. This initiative is designed to further develop ◆◆ Site consolidation; customer service skills, using computer-generated avatar expert role models to teach ◆◆ Organisational redesign; and best practice responses for various situations. ◆◆ Moving activities closer to the customer. 21 | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 Share this report commbank.com.au/sustainability2012 GRADUATES TRAINING This year, we welcomed over 100 graduates into our graduate program. Being such a large and diverse business, participants have a variety of career paths open to them. Training continues to play a major role in All major areas of the Group participate in the graduate program. our people proposition. During 2011–12, our staff completed more SAFETY, HEALTH AND WELLBEING 4,681 than 6,300 online learning and face-to-face We remain committed to providing a healthy and safe working environment for all our programs through the Learning Centre at people. In January 2012, new workplace health and safety laws were implemented the Group-wide and business unit level. Of to harmonise work health and safety legislation nationally. Across the Group we are these, more than 1,600 face-to-face learning online learning initiatives were held across the Group, with transitioning our systems and processes to meet new legislative requirements and programs over 20,500 people participating. This is a further improve our health and safety performance. marked increase of 35% in staff participation Throughout 2011–12 we continued to improve our Occupational Health & Safety compared to the previous year. (OHS) Management System through internal and external auditing. The Group’s OHS Management System was externally audited in July 2011 and achieved zero ENGAGED AND TALENTED PEOPLE 20,644 non-conformances. The Group was again granted a Tier 3 licence status by the Federal Government’s Safety, Rehabilitation and Compensation Commission indicating well developed and implemented safety and injury management systems and successful health and safety performance. 1,628 people participated in 2012 Lost-time injury frequency rates (LTIFR) The Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate (LTIFR) at 30 June 2012 was 2.5. This face-to-face workshops UP 35% improvement from last year is the result of our continued focus on promoting positive health and safety behaviours and targeting specific health and safety risk trends across the Group. In the reporting period, no fatalities occurred. 22 | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 Share this report commbank.com.au/sustainability2012 COMMUNITY CONTRIBUTION AND ACTION The Group has a long and proud history of supporting our local communities. We continue to build a sustainable BUILDING THE FINANCIAL LITERACY OF A NATION future for future generations by contributing to The Group has a proud tradition of supporting generations of young Australians to learn how to save and manage their money. In the reporting period, we helped to communities through mutually beneficial partnerships. educate 235,735 children through our StartSmart programs. In September 2011 we announced we would increase our investment in Australian communities by $100 million over the next 10 years, by: Financial Literacy programs Extending our StartSmart financial literacy programs; COMMUNITY CONTRIBUTION AND ACTION ◆◆ ◆◆ Matching staff contributions to the Staff Community Fund, 2012 dollar-for-dollar; and ◆◆ Expanding our breadth of volunteering activities. 2011 During the reporting period, we continued to: 2010 School banking students (active users) ◆◆ Build a more financially literate society; StartSmart students (booked) ◆◆ Contribute to society through our workforce with our Staff Community 2009 Fund and our staff volunteering programs; ◆◆ Work with Indigenous Australians; and 0 50,000 100,000 150,000 200,000 250,000 No. of participants ◆◆ Engage with the community through our continued commitment to a variety of sponsorships. 23 | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 Share this report commbank.com.au/sustainability2012 StartSmart We established the Commonwealth Bank Foundation in 2003 to Case study improve the financial literacy of young people. Every year we teach tens of thousands of students about essential money management Getting off to a good skills through our Foundation’s StartSmart school financial literacy financial start through program. The StartSmart program is offered free of charge to primary StartSmart and secondary school students across Australia. In 2012, we The challenge launched StartSmart Pathways to bring money management Budgeting and money management remain a skills to vocational students in year 11, year 12 and TAFE challenge for many young Australians. In fact, programs. As of August 2012, over 49 TAFEs and colleges less than half of young adults in Australia use across Australia had enrolled in StartSmart Pathways programs. a budget. Just over half of 18 to 24 year-olds have some consumer debt (mostly car loans School Banking and personal loans), and one fifth of young Our School Banking program contributed $1,403,550 to people with credit cards claim to hardly ever, “They followed the resource links off the Australian primary schools in commission during the or never, pay the full balance every month. StartSmart website and found the online 2011–2012 financial year. The program has been running for We understand that programs like StartSmart budgeting tool, which they both filled in. He more than 80 years. In the reporting period, 191,416 students Pathways can help improve individuals’ just wanted to let me know they thought the from 3,310 schools participated in the program. The School financial literacy, which in turn can deliver budgeting tool was really good, and that it had Banking Program continues to provide schools with a way to significant benefits to the broader economy made a big difference to them.” teach children money management skills that they can use for the and the nation as a whole. rest of their lives. Our progress COMMUNITY CONTRIBUTION AND ACTION Our response Since February 2012, 16,411 VET students have See commbank.com.au/schoolbanking for more information Kate Squires, the Commonwealth Bank completed the program. We have also introduced Coinland Foundation StartSmart Pathways Facilitator an iPhone feedback App to provide feedback on in Queensland, joined as a facilitator when the sessions. Coinland is an online world that teaches children about financial the program was first launched in February literacy. During the 2011–12 financial year, 38,427 children In our latest report, we received 834 pieces of logged on to Coinland. See commbank.com.au/coinland for 2012 to help bring money management to life for Vocational Education and Training (VET) feedback: more information students. Kate explained how the program was ◆◆ 99% of students agree or strongly agree that Teaching Awards making an impact. “I recently had a young man the workshop is engaging. In 2012, the inaugural year of the Commonwealth Bank from TAFE approach me shyly after a morning ◆◆ 91% of students agree or strongly agree that Foundation Teaching Awards, we rewarded individuals who are workshop. It was my second session with the they feel more confident about managing also working hard to build students’ financial literacy skills. The group, and the young man explained to me money after participating in the workshop. teaching awards were open to teachers in all Australian schools, that he went home after our session and sat Kindergarten to Year 12, as well as Australian TAFE Colleges. down with his house mate, who is apparently There were 15 winners, each receiving $10,000 to invest in their terrible with money,” said Kate. program, plus $2,000 as a personal reward. 24 | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 Share this report commbank.com.au/sustainability2012 CONTRIBUTING TO CONTRIBUTING TO A VOLUNTEERING NATION SOCIETY THROUGH OUR We encourage and support our people to contribute their time and skills to the community, by offering skilled and STAFF COMMUNITY FUND general volunteering opportunities with community groups all over Australia. Red Cross The Group’s Staff Community Fund is Australia’s largest In 2012, we became a Red Cross national humanitarian partner, donating $250,000 in funds and committing 100 staff and longest-running workplace-giving program. members to volunteer for the Telecross service. This service provides a reassuring daily phone call to more than 4,500 In this reporting period alone the Fund received isolated or elderly people in every State and Territory. contributions from over 10,000 of our people across Jawun the Group. As part of our Centenary celebrations In the reporting period, we became an active member of Jawun, a partnership of organisations connecting skilled commitment, from 2012 onwards we now match our people with Indigenous communities to share knowledge and expertise. people’s contributions to the Fund. In 2012 the Fund awarded $2 million to organisations that support the In 2012, the Group sent staff to Redfern, La Perouse and Cape York to support Jawun’s mission to promote selfhealth and wellbeing of Australian youth. reliance, entrepreneurial activity and business planning among Indigenous people. Find out how we are making a difference at commbank.com.au/sustainability Specifically, funds were allocated to: ◆◆ Our Community Grants program, which supports youth and children’s charities by allocating grants Case study of up to $10,000 each; Midnight Basketball, which encourages Staff Giving Back: The Cerebral Palsy ◆◆ underprivileged youth living in high risk areas to Alliance Centre COMMUNITY CONTRIBUTION AND ACTION participate in sport and educational activities; and ◆◆ The Humour Foundation’s Clown Doctors, Our initiative who brings fun and humour into the wards of As part of the Group’s Centenary celebrations, our children’s hospitals around Australia with magic, people nominated charities they felt strongly about. mime and mimicry. One of these was the Cerebral Palsy Alliance (CPA) Grants awarded through the Community Grants Program centre in Ryde, NSW. So in May 2012, during each year: National Volunteer Week our staff volunteers took “The staff at the Commonwealth Bank have Total donated 2007 2012: the opportunity to roll up their sleeves and renovate helped create an environment where therapists $5,693,173 124 grants 124 grants 244 grants the CPA’s centre. The impact can help children with cerebral palsy build greater movement or help them develop their 91 grants 69 grants communication skills,” he said. 66 grants Peter Horsley, Volunteers and Corporate Engagement Manager, CPA’s Ryde centre, was “This isn’t just a playground – it is an investment very appreciative of our volunteers’ efforts. into the treatment of cerebral palsy,” Peter said. 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 25 | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 Share this report commbank.com.au/sustainability2012 CLOSING THE GAP – WORKING WITH INDIGENOUS AUSTRALIA We acknowledge and celebrate the inherent strengths of Aboriginal and Torres Strait ENTERPRISE SUPPORT Islander people and communities. Our Indigenous strategy aims to create social Our enterprise support initiatives aim to create social and economic opportunities for and economic opportunities for Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander people through Indigenous Australians by providing specialised services and support programs. education, employment, enterprise support and appropriate banking services. Desert Hub in Alice Springs EDUCATION The Desert Hub links, grows and supports social enterprises working in the social economy in the desert regions of central Australia. The social enterprise model that We believe education and financial literacy help people build and support economically links profit outcomes with social outcomes is a natural fit with Aboriginal culture, social sustainable communities. We work with organisations that have on-the-ground and economic aspirations, and provides employment opportunities and pathways for knowledge of Indigenous communities to ensure our programs are relevant long-term unemployed people. and practical. Indigenous suppliers Walkabout Your Business The Group uses its own intranet platform to actively promote Indigenous businesses We support Walkabout Your Business, a business literacy program which helps supplying goods and services including catering and teleconferencing facilities. Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander entrepreneurs to establish and successfully operate businesses in remote communities. Managed in partnership with Ambrose Business Solutions, Darwin, the program provides practical advice, business FINANCIAL SERVICES COMMUNITY CONTRIBUTION AND ACTION knowledge and access to banking services. Indigenous Customer Assistance Line (ICAL) ICAL is a unique service offered by the Group to Indigenous customers in remote EMPLOYMENT areas. Through ICAL, customers can speak with a specially trained team member In 2009, as part of our Reconciliation Action Plan, we committed to providing 350 who can cater to their cultural and financial needs. ICAL also provides a range of career opportunities for Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander people across the Group banking services over the phone, including balance enquiries, money transfers, by June 2012. As at 30 June 2012, we had exceeded our target and created 354 and bill payments. ICAL currently takes around 1,500 calls each week. opportunities. Creating these opportunities involved: ◆◆ Delivering job readiness training; As at 30 June 2012, we exceeded ◆◆ ◆◆ Participating in cultural awareness work; Sourcing suitable candidates; and our target and created 354 ◆◆ Developing strong relationships. Indigenous career opportunities 26 | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 Share this report commbank.com.au/sustainability2012 COMMUNITY PARTNERSHIPS Case study We are committed to creating positive change in society. We are proud to support Creating meaningful career opportunities organisations that align with this focus. Our 2012 sponsorships and partnerships include sports, environment, national awards, arts, health and social welfare. for Indigenous students SPORTS The idea In 2012 alone, the Group offered Cricket 79 school-based traineeships to 2012 was the Group’s 25th year of sponsoring Cricket Australia. Our support extends Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander from the Commonwealth Bank Series and our national men’s and women’s teams, students around the country. right through to the community level of local clubs and teams. For the third year in a row, we supported local cricket clubs and associations at the community level through The Indigenous school-based our Grants for Grassroots Cricket™ program, which donated $385,000 in cash traineeship program began in 2003 and equipment to clubs across Australia. We also proudly sponsored the Australian in regional New South Wales, and is Country Cricket Championships for rural and regional clubs, and the Imparja Cup, the now offered nationally. Successful national cricket competition for Indigenous Australians. applicants start their traineeship during their summer school holidays, London Olympic Games 2012 then work one day a week in the Australian Olympic Team branch during the school term. The Olympic Games is the pinnacle of sporting events, where talented athletes The impact Tahnee Jash heard about the inspire all Australians to achieve their goals and dreams. Our support of the Australian Olympic Team competing at the 2012 London Olympic Games demonstrates our COMMUNITY CONTRIBUTION AND ACTION James Barker kick-started his Indigenous school-based traineeship banking career through the program. five years ago. commitment to our customers, people and the community in that we support what is important to them. Swimmer James Magnussen, hockey player Jodie Schulz and “I started in the Dubbo Branch in Year “I started at the St. Mary’s branch javelin thrower Kim Mickle are our Olympic ambassadors. These athletes epitomise 10,” he said. and gradually my manager started the power of CAN and we are proud to have supported them to achieve their dreams giving me more responsibilities. I’m to compete at the Olympic Games. Now in his fifth year with the bank, now working in head office with James is the acting branch manager in Dubbo, and a member of our the Indigenous Banking Team. The NATIONAL PARTNERSHIPS job has given me confidence and Clean Up Australia Day Indigenous Future Leaders Program, improved my self-esteem.” The Group has been a major sponsor of Clean Up Australia Day for the last five years. which develops high potential Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Find out more at 2012 was the first year that a team of Commonwealth Bank people dived and carried branch staff for leadership roles. commbank.com.au/indigenous out an underwater clean-up of Sydney Harbour. We were pleased to be able to provide this service to help preserve our beautiful environment. 27 | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 Share this report commbank.com.au/sustainability2012 Australian of the Year Awards CEO Sleepout As the major sponsor of the Australian of the Year Awards for over thirty years, we On the winter solstice in June 2012, Group CEO Ian Narev showed the Group’s continue to support the extraordinary individuals that make such a difference to the lives of support for St Vincent de Paul Society (Vinnies) and their great work helping the Australians. Our communities are full of unsung heroes from all walks of life: sports coaches, homeless across Australia by sleeping rough outside Carriageworks in Eveleigh, volunteers and charity workers, to name a few. Regardless of which field they come from, Sydney. CEO Sleepouts were held in every state capital of Australia, with over they have one thing in common – their commitment to putting others before themselves. 250 CEOs participating in Sydney. The total amount raised for Vinnies was over $4.5 million. ARTS Ian was the top fundraiser of the year, raising over $170,000, with a large proportion We continue to bring the arts to all Australians through our enduring partnerships with of Ian’s donations coming from the generosity of our people. The funds raised will help Opera Australia, the Australian Chamber Orchestra and the Bangarra Dance Theatre. Vinnies expand their services to include crisis accommodation, domestic violence Commonwealth Bank’s Opera Classics for Charity was hosted at Sydney’s Opera House support, access to counselling, life and occupational skill development and legal advice. in September 2011. The event raised $22,000 for two of our long-term charity partners – the Breast Cancer Institute of Australia and Prostate Cancer Foundation of Australia. HEALTH We continued supporting important health initiatives by raising funds for organisations such as the Breast Cancer Institute of Australia and the Prostate Cancer Foundation of Australia. The Group has supported the Breast Cancer Institute of Australia for more than 15 years, raising over $2.5 million over this time. COMMUNITY CONTRIBUTION AND ACTION Our partnership with the Prostate Cancer Foundation has contributed to developing Australia’s first tissue bank for research into the disease. In September 2011, a team of six Commonwealth Bank staff successfully set an official Guinness World Record for the World’s Longest BBQ Marathon, the team barbequed non-stop for 26.5 hours to support the Prostate Cancer Foundation. In addition we organised over 280 barbecue events across our banking network and raised over $155,000 in total. 28 | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 Share this report commbank.com.au/sustainability2012 ENVIRONMENTAL STEWARDSHIP As one of Australia’s largest organisations, we are keenly aware of the importance of managing our environmental impact and reducing our carbon footprint. Our main aims are to: ◆◆ Reduce our direct footprint; ◆◆ Foster clean and renewable energy technologies; and ◆◆ Engage our customers and employees on environmental matters. REDUCING OUR DIRECT FOOTPRINT We are on track to meet our target of a 20% reduction in carbon emissions from 2008–2009 levels by 2013. This represents 34,550 tonnes of carbon. Over the past three years, our emissions have steadily declined as highlighted below. Greenhouse Gas Emissions Scope 1 Scope 2 Scope 3 (of 1&2) 172,752 176,806 180000 170,668 147,124 ENVIRONMENTAL STEWARDSHIP 150000 Tonnes CO2-e 120000 90000 60000 30000 0 2008–2009 2009–2010 2010–2011 2011–2012 29 | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 Share this report commbank.com.au/sustainability2012 OUR TOP THREE CARBON REDUCTION INITIATIVES 1. 2. 3. Green Refresh Heating, Green Refresh Lighting Commercial building consolidations Ventilation and Air Conditioning (HVAC) We are implementing a lighting project to replace We are implementing a HVAC project in our retail and We are consolidating our commercial buildings, inefficient lighting in 950 branches across Australia, commercial buildings, with an ancillary component including relocating over 6,000 employees to as well as lighting controls in branches, saving to also reduce lighting and other power consumption Commonwealth Bank Place (CBP) in Sydney, saving approximately 8,000 tonnes CO2-e per annum. As of in commercial sites, saving approximately 12,000 approximately 12,700 tonnes CO2-e per annum. The ENVIRONMENTAL STEWARDSHIP 1 July 2012, 550 of the 950 branches are completed, tonnes CO2-e per annum. This project differs from completion of CBP was the final pillar in one of the and work is progressing at remaining sites. The Green Refresh Lighting in that each targeted site is most ambitious corporate consolidations in Australia Group is monitoring progress closely and auditing different and requires a unique solution to drive the – an 8 year Sydney Accommodation Consolidation installed sites for quality and compliance. projected outcome. strategy which saw the Group move over 19,000 employees from 19 buildings across Sydney into 3 purpose built campuses. 30 | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 Share this report commbank.com.au/sustainability2012 FOSTERING CLEAN AND RENEWABLE Case study ENERGY TECHNOLOGIES Harnessing Since 2004, the Commonwealth Bank has been a senior investor in renewable and Renewable Energy clean energy projects in Australia and New Zealand, starting with a single wind farm The challenge at Lake Bonney in South Australia. Our participation in this industry is a long-term The Collgar Wind Farm is a $750 million commitment, requiring significant investment in resources, knowledge and skills. renewable power project at Merredin in Western Australia’s central wheatbelt, and As at 30 June 2012, our loan facilities to single asset clean and renewable generation is the largest single stage wind farm in the companies had increased to around 71% of total exposures in this sector, compared southern hemisphere to date. Merredin to 59% as at 30 June 2011. farmers leased portions of their properties to Collgar Wind Farm for its construction. Our Renewable/Clean Energy Financing Portfolio (MW capacity) This project supports the Renewable Energy Target (RET), which has been legislated to ensure 20% of electricity comes from renewable sources. The RET has bipartisan support from the Federal Labor Government and the Opposition. Our involvement The Group is a core lender to the project, working with domestic and international banks to deliver the project funding. Biomass Wind Hydroelectric Clean The project began construction in June 2010 and finished in October 2011, with 60 4,884 7,700 45 practical completion in March 2012. The project was completed under budget and ahead of schedule. The impact ENVIRONMENTAL STEWARDSHIP Responsible lending The Collgar Wind Farm has almost doubled the level of renewable energy in Before deciding whether to fund a project, our Institutional Banking and Markets the South West Interconnected System (SWIS) from 5 per cent to 9 per cent. (IB&M) division undertakes intensive due diligence. This way, we ensure that our Built over a land envelope of 18,000Ha, it has 111 Vestas V90 turbines with a institutional clients are able to manage the environmental, social and governance power production capacity of 206MW, generating on average 792,000 MWh per (ESG) risks within the project. IB&M uses a ‘Risk Appetite Statement’ (derived from the year – enough electricity for approximately 125,000 homes. The annual carbon Group’s Risk Appetite Statement) which includes ESG risk mitigation considerations. reduction (of approximately 700,000 tonnes of greenhouse gas emissions) will be All transactions take into account the appropriate risks and opportunities that have the equivalent to taking 160,000 cars off the road or planting 1,000,000 trees. potential to impact the loan. 31 | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 Share this report commbank.com.au/sustainability2012 ENGAGING OUR EMPLOYEES Case study ‘CommBank Unplugged’ – The Workplace Of The Future In 2010, we recognised the need to fully leverage Our progress our long-term investments and develop the The Group is now home to the world’s largest workplace of the future. We needed to move and most innovative ABW environment. More from a very static workplace to a dynamic, than 6,000 of our staff at our new Sydney flexible use of space. offices, Commonwealth Bank Place, have been freed from traditional workstations to Our response discover new ways to work and collaborate. ‘CommBank Unplugged’ is a new way of working that allows our people to work at the We invested in the right technology, including time and place that suits them best, with the lighter, faster and more energy efficient right people, to deliver the fastest, most effective laptops, secure wireless network within the results for our customers. Also known as building, Follow You printing, LCD collaboration activity-based working (ABW), this innovative screens and smart boards in formal and model does away with many of the rules and informal meeting areas. norms of the traditional workplace, giving our people the freedom and the tools they need to deliver outstanding results for our customers. “‘CommBank Unplugged’ The workplace is a state-of-the-art facility with is a new way of working ENVIRONMENTAL STEWARDSHIP the latest technology that inspires our staff and allows them to focus on our customers’ needs. Laptops and non-designated desks have that allows our people to replaced individual workstations, so staff can move around and work with those they need work at the time and to collaborate with when they need to, without place that suits them best .” disturbing their workmates. 32 | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 Share this report commbank.com.au/sustainability2012 Commonwealth Bank Place (CBP) has delivered the following benefits, which exceeded original targets: Space efficiency Diversity and flexibility We have improved our accommodation ABW has helped the Group improve efficiency through ABW which has enabled diversity and flexibility outcomes for our 20% more employees to be allocated to CBP. This employees by allowing them to work with whomever has minimised the Group’s footprint by requiring less they need to, wherever and whenever they need. In the built space. reporting period we won the prestigious Catalyst Award for our workplace diversity and flexibility programs Paper reduction (which include ABW). We are only the second By helping teams and individuals rely less Australian organisation to win this global award in its on paper, we reduced printing by 50% 27-year history. (against a target of 30%), saving over $1 million per annum and contributing to sustainable forestry. New ABW sites The success of the ABW pilot and CBP is Cost of churn resulting in the ABW model being leveraged We have reduced the cost of churn, or staff in two other significant new Group developments in attrition, by over 90% (against a target of Perth, Australia and Auckland, New Zealand. 85%) saving $0.85m per annum. Employee pride Carbon footprint The unexpected outcome was the amount Property-related emissions, based on of pride shown by employees in their new CBP employee occupants, have reduced workplace. This is reflected in survey results, with over by over 50%, through sustainability 80% indicating ABW makes them proud to work for the initiatives such as generating our own Group, and in the number of employees bringing their power, water and waste recycling and use of family in to see their workplace through organised tours ENVIRONMENTAL STEWARDSHIP technology like chilled beam and weekend family days. We have reduced the air-conditioning and energy efficient lighting. cost of churn by over 90% Efficiency and productivity By moving to ABW at CBP, 70% of employees say it is easier for them to deliver great customer service. Over 78% feel there is greater saving over $0.85 million per annum collaboration between teams they work with and more than 66% feel more productive. 33 | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 Share this report commbank.com.au/sustainability2012 OUR COMMUNITY PARTNERS The Group is proud to be an active participant of leading global sustainability programs. United Way Community Funds food rescue of Australia OUR COMMUNITY PARTNERS 34 | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 Share this report commbank.com.au/sustainability2012 FOR FURTHER INFORMATION Commonwealth Bank Sustainability – Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) index We place a great emphasis on sustainability performance and we are committed to reporting transparently on progress. We continue to review the guidance provided through voluntary reporting frameworks such as the GRI. The table below supports our stakeholders by providing links or signposts to where information relevant to the GRI Index can be found. Strategy Report, Scope & Boundary 1.1 Statement by the CEO A message from our CEO Sustainability Report page 5-6 3.3 Frequency Annual aligned to financial year Sustainability Report page 4 1.2 Key impacts, risks, and Chief Executive Officer’s Annual Report page 5 3.4 Contact point sustainability@cba.com.au Sustainability Report page 4 opportunities Statement Our operating 3.5 Process for determining • Our Approach to Sustainability • Sustainability  Report page environment content 9-10 •O  ur Refreshed Reporting Organisational Profile Approach •C  ommbank.com.au/ sustainability 2.1 Name of the organisation Commonwealth Bank Australia – 3.6 Limit of the Report About This Report Sustainability Report page 4 2.2 Main brands, products Who We Are Sustainability Report page 7 3.7 Report Scope and Annual aligned to financial year Sustainability Report page 4 and/or services Boundary Limitations 2.3 Operating Structure Who We Are, Our Vision, Our Sustainability Report page 7-8 3.8 Subsidiaries Reporting sustainability@cba.com.au Sustainability Report page 4 Strategy and Our Market Share 3.9 Data measurement Sustainability Report Commbank.com.au/ 2.4 Address of the Commonwealth Bank – techniques and performance data sustainability2012 organisation’s head office Tower 1, 201 Sussex Street, calculation bases Sydney, NSW 2000 3.10 Consequences of Sustainability Report Commbank.com.au/ 2.5 Geographic performance Who We Are Sustainability Report page 7 the restatement of performance data sustainability2012 information 2.6 Legal nature Annual Report Annual Report 3.11 Significant changes Group’s greenhouse gas Commbank.com.au/ 2.7 Markets served Who We Are Sustainability Report page 7 emissions are now displayed sustainability2012 2.8 Size of the organisation Who We Are Sustainability Report page 7 in line with the Australian Government’s National 2.9 Significant changes in Ian Narev’s appointment Commbank.com.au/about-us/ Greenhouse and Energy the year as Managing Director and our-company/management Reporting Scheme Chief Executive Officer of the Commonwealth Bank took 3.12 GRI Summary This table Sustainability Report effect on 1 December 2011. page 35-36 2.10 Awards  ustainability Awards and •S • Sustainability Report page 9 3.13 External verification KPMG Assurance Report commbank.com.au/ Recognitions sustainability2012 •C  ommbank.com.au/about-us/ • The Group’s awards our-company/awards Governance FOR FURTHER INFORMATION Report, Scope & Boundary 4.1 Governance structure Corporate Governance Annual Report page 56 3.1 Reporting period 1 July 2011 to 30 June 2012 Sustainability Report page 4 4.2 Identification of the key Corporate Governance Annual Report page 57 3.2 Previous report 1 July 2010 to 30 June 2011 Sustainability Report 2011 executives composition 35 | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 Share this report commbank.com.au/sustainability2012 Commonwealth Bank Sustainability – Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) index Governance Governance 4.3 Independent and/or nonCorporate Governance Annual Report page 57 4.11 Organisation Risk management Annual Report page 10 executive directors of the composition precautionary approach Board or principle is addressed by the organisation. 4.4 Mechanisms to provide Shareholder Communication Annual Report page 61 recommendations or 4.12 Externally developed Our Refreshed Reporting Sustainability Report page 10 direction to the Board economic, environmental, Approach and social charters, 4.5 Compensation and Directors’ Report – Annual Report page 76 principles, or other UN Global Compact and UNEP financial, social Remuneration Report Linking initiatives to which the Finance Initiative and environmental Remuneration to Performance organisation subscribes performance or endorses. 4.6 Avoidance of conflicts of Statement of Professional Annual Report page 61-62 4.13 Memberships in Our Refreshed Reporting Sustainability Report page 10 interest Practice / Code of Conduct associations Approach 4.7 Board composition, Corporate Governance Board Annual Report page 58 qualifications, and Performance and Renewal Stakeholder Engagement expertise Committee 4.14 List of stakeholder Our Approach to Sustainability – Sustainability Report 4.8 Values, codes of Our Sustainability Framework Sustainability Report page 10 groups engaged by the Stakeholder Engagement – page 9-10 conduct, and principles organisation. relevant to economic, 4.15 Basis for identification Our Approach to Sustainability Sustainability Report page 9 environmental, and and selection of Stakeholder Engagement social performance. stakeholders with whom 4.9 Procedures for the Board The Board reviews and Annual Report page 56 to engage. to identify and manage approves the Group’s 4.16 Approaches to Our Approach to Sustainability Sustainability Report page 9 economic, environmental, Sustainability Strategy and stakeholder engagement, Stakeholder Engagement and social performance. including frequency of Annual Sustainability Report engagement by type and that covers ESG activities and by stakeholder group. performance. 4.17 Key topics and concerns Material issues commbank.com.au/ 4.10 Processes for evaluating Corporate Governance Annual Report page 38 that have been raised sustainability the highest governance through stakeholder body’s own performance, engagement, and how particularly with the organisation has respect to economic, responded to those key environmental, and topics and concerns, social performance. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION including through its reporting. 36 | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 Share this report commbank.com.au/sustainability2012 FOR REFERENCE WE MAKE SUSTAINABILITY PART OF EVERYTHING WE DO OUR SUSTAINABILITY FRAMEWORK Sustainable We embed sustainable business practices across our operations through strong governance, established management systems, responsible Business Practices procurement and transparent reporting. Responsible We take a responsible approach to the provision of financial products and services. Financial Services Engaged and We attract, develop and retain a diverse, engaged and talented workforce. Talented People Community We make impactful contributions to our communities through mutually beneficial partnerships. Contribution and Action Environmental We are proactive in measuring and reducing our own environmental footprint and provide smart solutions to help our customers and employees Stewardship reduce their own. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION 37 | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 Share this report commbank.com.au/sustainability2012 YOUR FEEDBACK CONNECT EMAIL WRITE If you have any feedback on Connect with us through Email us at: Write to us at: our sustainability approach and social networks: sustainability@cba.com.au Corporate Sustainability reporting, we would love to hear facebook.com/commonwealthbank Commonwealth Bank FOR FURTHER INFORMATION from you. twitter.com/commbank Level 5, Tower 1 Google+ 201 Sussex Street blog.commbank.com.au Sydney NSW 2000 38 | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 Share this report commbank.com.au/sustainability2012 CBA1988 291012 Commonwealth Bank’s Sustainability Report 2012 is printed on Tudor RP. Tudor RP is Australian made and contains 100% recycled fibre. Tudor RP is also Certified Carbon Neutral by the Department of Climate Change & Energy Efficiency’s National Carbon Offset Standard (NCOS), an Australian Government Initiative. No chlorine bleaching occurs in the recycling process and Australian Paper is ISO:14001 certified. Sales of Tudor RP support Landcare Australia.
