Communication On Progress 2012 welcome, wordle what we do: to the first COP of the value agency. We are an Amsterdam based Corporate Social ResponsiOur work is about creating value for companies, their brand & their employees while adding bility (CSR) concept agency. We develop and implement CSR concepts for companies within value to the world around them. We believe that every organization has a unique CSR identity the scope of their core business and cultural values. We support organizations in shaping and a business soul from where it can create new value for its own business and for the world formulating their social and environmental role and taking their ambitions to the next level around it. whilst stimulating the guidelines of the Global Compact. We do this by actively implementing the strategies, policies & practices and facilitating education and change initiatives to enable CSR and sustainability mean different things to different people and organizations. They can them to act accordingly. span many areas of a business; from embedding CSR strategically in the day-to-day operations, to the working practices of suppliers, to employee engagement programs. To address We are a values-driven organization, combining practical idealism with a business mentality. Connecting people, organizations & ideas and making a positive change lie at the heart of our the specific needs and business realities of our clients, we have three types of activities: day to day work. 1. CSR concept development This COP will tell you more about our activities. Note that all the GC principles (eg. environment, labour, human rights) form the foundation of and are interwoven in all our 2. Be The Change Coaching program concepts and activities and as such are not explicitly elaborated on in this COP le 3. social enterprise development Princip document, but marked pointedly with the focus principles in the green circle: for more information, or an update on our latest activities, please visit www.thevalueagency,com or contact us at welcome@thevalueagency.com 1-10 COP statement, wordle UN Global Compact Leaders Summit 2010 We continuously support the Global Compact principles and will act accordingly. As a small social enterprise (with less than 10 employees) we have shown that, guided by our own moral compass and supported by the Global Compact Guidelines, we can have a positive impact on the world through pragmatism, active engagement and leading by example. We work and act in line with the Global Compact principles and we invite and stimulate our partners and stakeholders to do the same by: 1. Informing about the chances and opportunities of doing business 2. Inspiring with examples of sustainable success stories & responsible best practices 3. Motivating to act as a value agent (both on the company level and the individual level) and to make a difference in today’s world. Inspired by the Global Compact Leadership Summit we are committed to follow the principles even more proactively by using the different tools of the GC, participate in events and connect to other GC members. Welcome Session (23 June 2010), UN General Assembly Hall Hubertine Roessingh, Managing Director the value agency Photo: UN Global Compact/Michael Dames, Hubertine Roessingh (the value agency), Dieuwertje Damen (Rainbow Collection) Activities wordle 1. CSR concepts We design complete CSR strategies, policies & programs for companies that wish to give shape to CSR in an innovative, authentic and personal way. How do we address this challenge? By developing a unique CSR identity, which is based on the companies' core values, activities and culture and which is aligned to their overall strategy and their sustainable motives & ambitions. The CSR identity helps us and our client to make CSR very specific for their business; the topics it encompasses, the shortand long term goals and ambitions, the strategic roadmap and the day-to-day implementation. In other words: a sound CSR identity forms the ideal and essential foundation to develop a successful, innovative and authentic CSR concept. le Beer Promotion Girls Princip wordle 7-9 The roots of the value agency go back to Bangkok, Thailand. the value agency developed the GREEN ADS BLUE In 2005, we investigated the working conditions of Heineken Beer Promotion Girls in Bangkok Water Neutrality Program for GreenGraffiti®. from a CSR perspective, by mapping the role and responsibilities of the company and its stakeholders towards these women. Selling and promoting beer in Bangkok is a gender-sensitive proGreenGraffiti® is an environmentally friendly form fession, which (as the research showed us) causes social stigmatization and sexual intimidation. of outdoor advertising with a clear message: clean is green. It is one of the first companies in the On request by Heineken International we developed a report of recommendations (both strategiworld to compensate for their water footprint. For cally as on the operational level and the day-to-day business of the Girls) on how the company can each liter of water they use, to produce an expresimprove the working situation of Heineken Promotion Girls to create a win win situation for both sion, they invest in a water harvesting project that the company and their employees. provides one liter of clean drinking water in the Semi-arid region of North Eastern Brazil. le Princip www.heinekeninternational.com 1-6 www.greengraffiti.nl Add2 a Brighther World program le Princip 1-10 ARCADIS AQUMEN is a specialist in facility management services for the wordle public and private sector in the Netherlands. the value agency designed their CSR strategy and implemented Add2 a Brighter World CSR-Identity Based on an in-company CSR scan, benchmark and stakeholder analysis, we assisted AAFM in formulating their own specific CSR identity, Ruby’s Business ambition and program: Add2 a Brighter World Ruby Brown is an Amsterdam-based home-shoe & sock label, of which its colorful accessories are proimplementation & employee engagement duced in China. This summer, Ruby Brown wanted to give back to the Chinese communities she has To integrate the CSR strategy into the daily operations and to actively successfully been working with for the last 5 years. involve employees we facilitated this process by implementing CSR in the management systems and by setting up an active Community of To do so, we designed “Ruby’s Business” Ruby’s own CSR identity and a 5-year CSR action-plan: from Practise; Team Planet. business as usual to 100% fair trade. communication Ruby’s first CSR action is “Ruby’s First Step”: we initiated a partnership with the Centered around the three pillars of Inspiration, Interaction and Illustrale Princip Chinese Children's Center Half the Sky: for every purchased pair of home shoes from tion we co-created the internal & external communication tools. Ruby Brown's baby collection, one euro is directly invested in Half the Sky. www.arcadisaqumen.nl 1-6 www.rubybrown.nl brainstorm CSR identity: 2. be the change wordle telling beautiful stories CSR concepts identity Bedding House is a renowned Dutch producer of bed-linen CSR is about leadership. And leadership is about vision, inspiration and development. and sleeping room accessories. Last year the organization the value agency developed BE THE CHANGE a coaching & inspiration program especially had its first sustainability experience when it developed designed for CSR managers. an organic cotton bed-linen collection with producers in CSR managers are operating in a very dynamic business environment. In order to keep track Portugal. of the latest trends and developments in the world of CSR, with new standards, guidelines, initiatives and new rules and regulations in an ever-expanding field of issues and new topics This year, Beddinghouse decided to embed this single initia(Cradle2Cradle, Social media, CSR 2.0, employee engagement, organizational change etc) tive in a broader CSR program. For this reason we organized we offer BE THE CHANGE. a workshop (world cafe) to support the organization to identify and formulate their own unique CSR identity. Our aim is to support CSR managers (by generating new ideas through interactive brainstorm sessions, updates on the latest trends and just by listening to their needs and ambitions). To be continued spring 2010. le Princip Because we believe that inspired CSR managers can inspire their own organizations & employees and as CHANGE AGENTS they can set the example within the business community and society at large. www.beddinghouse.nl 1-10 the fringe goes green world cafe wordle co-creation friday The Fringe aims to create a stimulating atmosphere for artists & innovation; to meet, inspire & Together with our partner Outbox Consultancy (the Netherlands) we facilitated two co-creation days stimulate eachother. The Fringe is constantly looking for adventure and contributes internationworkshops for Delta Lloyd Group Foundation (DLGF). Co-creation is the practice of developing sysally to dynamic theatre. It is from this reality that The Fringe decided to contribute to a green & tems, products, or services through the collaborative execution of developers and stakeholders, fair planet. companies and customers, or managers and employees. The programs of the foundation are focused on urban poverty alleviation and financial empowerWorld Cafe ment in Amsterdam. Taking into account the fact that 2010 will be the European year for poverty But what does sustainability mean to The Fringe? And how can it address the CSR challenge? To alleviation, the foundation wants to build a coalition of other Amsterdam-based companies to fight answer these questions, we organized the Fringe Goes Green World Cafe. During this interactive urban poverty together. dialogue, the participants (employees, artists and visitors of The Fringe) set the framework for a sustainable vision, mission & action plan. This will be further As such, the workshops we facilitated focused on one question alone: how to co-create an online platform against poverty in Amsterdam with a group of developed summer 2010. le le Princip 16 large dutch companies and their civil society partners? Princip www.amsterdamfringefestival.nl 7-9 www.deltalloydgroupfoundation.nl 1-6 3. social enterprises wordle the value agency believes in social entrepreneurship in businesses that address and pursue both commercial & strategic and social & environmental goals. Social enterprises are the business leaders of the 21st century, focusing on long-term success and on mutual dialogue with their partners and stakeholders. They are constantly adapting to changes in society and in their business environment and seek innovations to do so. Bar O is a sustainable & innovative bar concept. Bar O is a tribute to water as source of life & the value agency is a social enterprise. As such, we decided to invest our profits and extra energy a philosophy that has a central place in the concept, design, hospitality strategy and time into innovative CSR concepts and new social enterprises. menu. Bar O is a place to reload & relax, to be inspired and to get together with friends & likeminded people people that are looking for a warm, sparkling, innovative and responsible hospiOnce these enterprises & concepts have been established, we will hand over the stick to tality experience. other entrepreneurs, in order for them to run their own social enterprises. Together we will make a difference. Besides this, Bar O is the first bar in the world that aims to be water neutral. How? By compensating both the direct and virtual water footprint of the bar by investing le Princip in sustainable water projects in developing countries. www.bar-o.org work in progress 7-9 support Orange and bring employment to South Africa AWARD withwordle the rainbow collection Amsterdam Cape Town, 2009 2010 today’s managers are the leaders of the future For the first time in history, the World Cup will land More than ever, the world needs responsible & sustainable leaders. During The Future Leaders on African soil in 2010. With this event, the eyes of Event 2009, more than 300 high potentials, from Dutch multinationals and the government, were the whole world will be on South Africa, offering machallenged to bring CSR into practice. jor opportunities to the country and its people. To stimulate and inspire these leaders of the future, and to create more exposure and impact, this In assignment of Behold Consultancy, we have deyear the organization of the event asked the value agency to organize the prestigious Future Leadsigned & coordinated the Fair Trade merchandise ers Award. During the event, the best ideas were presented on new & innovative business soluprogram called Rainbow Collection, offering Dutch tions for the challenges the world is facing today. companies a fair trade alternative to the regular (made-in-china) orange World Cup premiums. To do The winning team the Future Leader 2009 were given the opportunity to follow Masterclasses and Workshops on how to realize & implement their solution. We le so, we work together with three small-scale fair trade le Princip producers in South Africa. designed the program and facilitated the events supported by different experts. Princip 1-6 1-10 www.futureleaderevent.nl www.rainbowcollection.nl do you want to create new stories with us? the value agency is based in the historical center of Amsterdam on ‘het Spui’, right above the coffee company. Are you in the area? Please feel free to step by for a fresh coffee or a cup of hot of tea. w www.thevalueagency.com e welcome@thevalueagency.com a Spui 28, 1012 XA, Amsterdam, The Netherlands t +31 (0)6 3434 2357 adding value to the world starts with you a adding value to the world starts with you
