Communication on Progress This Communication on Progress covers the Vangsgaard Group; Vangsgaard A/S and Vangsgaard Instore A/S. Human Rights Assessment All of our employees are based in Denmark and are covered by national legislation governing the human rights area. The issue of human rights is important for the company and thus our core values underline this. Also we have an increased focus on our suppliers abroad; ensuring that they comply with international rules and legislation on human rights. Implementation Vangsgaard has policies regarding salaries and employment, working hours, holiday, overtime, etc. In our CSR Statement we cover the issue and commit to continuously following up on the matter. Measures are also taken to ensure that we have a healthy and safe workplace. A safety organisation is in place consisting of employees from senior management, administration, the production and warehouse areas. Since our last COP we have set aside resources and conducted audits with our suppliers abroad. In addition to our Supplier Code of Conduct, which we expect all our suppliers to adhere to, we have developed an audit checklist that we use when visiting to our suppliers abroad. This checklist covers the topic and aims to uncover any violations of human rights within the organisations of our suppliers so that appropriate measures can be taken. We have seen with our own eyes the conditions for employees regarding issues such as general working environment, child labour, and the handling of machines and chemicals. For all visits we have been met with a very positive attitude towards our policies, a willingness to address the questions of the checklist, and we have found no cause for remarks or sanctions. Measurement of outcomes We have been conducting audits with our suppliers abroad and are confident that they adhere to international legislation on the subject of human rights. As mentioned above; our audits have found no cause for remarks or sanctions towards our suppliers abroad and we are confident that they adhere to international legislation as well as Vangsgaard’s Suppliers Code of Conduct. This cause of action will continue not only towards our current suppliers but will also be part of the selection process when selecting new suppliers abroad. Within our own company we find that the safety organisation along with a collaborative focus on the physical and psychological working environment in the various departments has reduced sick leave and created a sense of solidarity that helps to lower this. When employees are on sick leave for a longer period of time we conduct absence interviews to help uncover any challenges and to help the employee return to work in the best possible way. 1 Labour Assessment Our operations are covered by Danish legislation securing the labour rights of employees. Additionally we have policies stating our position in regards to, amongst other areas, working conditions, child labour, forced labour, freedom of association and anti-discrimination. Still our focus is on this issue and we aim to include these principles in our cooperation with suppliers abroad. Implementation Our CSR statement covers areas of labour rights for our employees and clearly states that labour performed at Vangsgaard take place, taking into account, among other things, the following principles of prevention; risk control at the source, the work is adjusted to fit the single employee when it comes to work equipment as well as choice of workingand production methods, lighting at the workstations and respecting the minimum working age of minors. We do not exercise differential treatment or discrimination based on gender, race, skin colour, religion or faith, political opinion, sexual orientation, nationality, social status, ethnicity, age or disability. We believe that everyone should have the same possibilities of education and employment and we honour this in our training and educational programmes. The above mentioned policies apply, not only to Vangsgaard and our employees in Denmark; we also expect our suppliers abroad to adhere to them and we cover these issues in our regular audits. On December 14th 2011 we had a Stressand Robustness Workshop for all employees. An external speaker held an inclusive and interactive lecture where we learned about the danger signs, borderline stress symptoms and how to react if stress has hit you or a colleague. As well as providing employees with the tools to handle stressful situations and periods of time, the workshop helped open up for communication on the issue; Employees from all departments became open to talking about the issue and the result was a sense of unity and security helping to avoid stress in the future. Furthermore we adhere to Danish legislation covering first aid education. We have 22 employees who are trained in fire prevention and first aid including the use of defibrillators. The 22 employees cover all departments of the company and make out more than 25 percent of the personnel. We have a defibrillator on ground and information is available about this online at www.hjertestarter.dk so that the general public can see where defibrillators are available in case of emergency. Measurement of outcomes A working environment that is safe, positive and productive contributes to lesser sick leave and a higher work ethic. Additionally, our Supplier Code of Conduct addresses labour issues. This covers key areas such as child labour, forced and prison labour, the right to employee representation, and the right to maternity and sick benefits. We control that our suppliers respect these policies when we conduct audits. 2 Moreover we have started collaboration with Ballerup Kommune, the municipality to which we belong. In cooperation with Ballerup Kommune we aim to include young people who otherwise would not be likely to complete an education. We give them an “erhvervsgrunduddannelse” (EGU), containing a predominance of practical work training and less theory. The first student started in 2012 and we are expanding the programme in 2013 to include more students. Environment Assessment Vangsgaard has a goal of being an environmentally conscious company that takes responsibility and helps to develop our society in an environmentally sound direction. The company's managers and employees must always act with maximum respect for the environment in their actions based on common sense and with due regard to the economy of the company. Vangsgaard has policies addressing environmental issues such as carbon emissions, waste, wastewater, chemicals and packaging. We strive to reduce our environmental impact as much as possible and we follow applicable national legislation on the subject. Implementation Since our last COP we have launched several initiatives which have helped to reduce the overall environmental impact of the company. Among our initiatives to reduce our carbon foot print we are now Climate Partner with DONG Energy. A Climate Partnership with DONG Energy is about taking responsibility for climate challenges by setting goals for climate actions, implementing energy savings, and supporting production of renewable energy. Vangsgaard purchases and redeem RECS certificates equivalent to the expected energy consumption of the company. Additionally the Partnership ensures that a given amount of electricity is produced by renewable energy sources. Measurement of outcomes We have replaced our traditional light sources and replaced them with new low energy and environmentally friendly versions. This alone has reduced the power consumption with 4%. Simultaneously we are working on a larger scale project for the purpose of investing in intelligent power management with a reduction potential of up to 20% of the overall consumption of the company. We have implemented a new system for sorting waste that meets increased possibility of re-usage of material and thereby reducing CO2 emissions when burning waste. 3 While considering shifting to the more environmentally friendly district heating, we have initiated a project to search the market for the least polluting form of heating. All of our initiatives aim to help us reach our goal of reducing our overall environmental impact by 20%. Anti-corruption Assessment Vangsgaard has policies in place explicitly stating that employees must not give nor receive advantages in any form to Danish or foreign governmental officials that are prohibited by law. Not only do we expect adherence of these policies from our employees in Denmark but also from our suppliers abroad. Implementation Our CSR Statement covers the issue of corruption and we live up to Danish legislation regarding anticorruption and bribery, which are in line with OECD and the Council of Europe conventions. The issue of anti-corruption is also covered in our Supplier Code of Conduct as well as in our supplier audits. Measurement of outcomes All employees are familiar with and adhere to company policies on corruption. Furthermore, our audits with our suppliers abroad have shown no cause for remarks or sanctions. We plan to have a continuous focus on the issue of corruption in the future to ensure that Vangsgaard as a whole as well as our suppliers adhere the United Nations Global Compact, the Ten principles, and international legislation. 4
