2012 GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE REPORT Table of Contents INTRODUCTION TO THE 2012 GRI REPORT ............................................................................. 3 1.0 Strategy and Analysis ................................................................................................................................... 4 2.0 Organizational Profile ................................................................................................................................... 7 3.0 Report Parameters ..................................................................................................................................... 12 4.0 Governance, Commitments, and Engagement ............................................................................................ 15 ECONOMIC SUMMARY ........................................................................................................ 23 Economic Performance Indicators ....................................................................................................................... 25 ENVIRONMENTAL SUMMARY .............................................................................................. 29 Environmental Performance Indicators ............................................................................................................... 30 LABOR AND HUMAN RIGHTS SUMMARY.............................................................................. 41 Labor Performance Indicators .............................................................................................................................. 43 Human Rights Performance Indicators................................................................................................................. 50 SOCIETAL SUMMARY ........................................................................................................... 52 Society Performance Indicators ........................................................................................................................... 54 PRODUCT STEWARDSHIP SUMMARY ................................................................................... 56 Product Responsibility Performance Indicators ................................................................................................... 57 GRI G3 INDEX ...................................................................................................................... 58 2 Introduction to the 2012 GRI Report We are pleased to support the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) as a comprehensive, Internationally-recognized format for reporting data on economic, environmental and social performance. Our GRI report is intended to supplement the 2012 Sustainability Progress Report, which provides an overview of the progress towards achieving our sustainability goals. To develop the GRI report, we utilized the GRI G3 guidelines and data and information up until December 31, 2011. The report is illustrated in a question and answer style format to make it easier for the reader. At the end of the report is the GRI Index for a quick reference to a particular section. This report applies a selfdeclared GRI Application Level A. For reference, the following key documents were used: • DuPont 2011 Annual Review • DuPont 2011 Form 10-K • DuPont 2012 Annual Meeting Proxy Statement • DuPont 2011 Data Book • DuPont 2012 Sustainability Progress Report • DuPont Code of Conduct At DuPont we put science to work by creating sustainable solutions essential to a better, safer, healthier life for people everywhere. Sustainability: An Evolving Process Our mission of sustainable growth can be traced back to decisions and commitments we began making decades ago. In the 1970s and 1980s our focus was on internal safety and meeting environmental regulations. In the late 1980s and 1990s we added voluntary footprint reductions, going beyond regulatory requirements. We looked to increase shareholder value with a goal of zero safety and environmental incidents as we decreased raw material and energy inputs into our products and reduced emissions at our manufacturing sites. Now we see ourselves in a third phase of sustainable growth, characterized by a holistic approach that is fully integrated into our business models. In this phase, sustainability is broadened to include human safety as well as environmental protection, and it becomes our market-driven business priority throughout the value chain. The transition to products that meet the definition of “sustainable” will take place over time. But the pace will quicken as the synergistic effects of market demand, societal expectations and product innovation create collaborations up and down the value chain. To review our 2012 Sustainability Progress Report and learn about our Sustainability Goals and other efforts, please visit us at www.sustainability.dupont.com. 3 1.0 Strategy and Analysis 1.1 Statement from the most senior decision-maker of the organization. This has been an exciting year for DuPont, with dynamic progress made in our commitment to create sustainable solutions the world needs through science and innovation. Our strategy is driven by the DuPont mission of sustainable growth, creating shareholder and societal value while reducing our environmental footprint along the value chains in which we operate. In this way we are embedding sustainability into the way we do business and considering the long term livelihood of people and the environment as we make business decisions today. This approach is working. Setting ambitious sustainability goals helps us advance our performance both financially and environmentally, and results in positive impacts up and down our value chains. Today we are proud to see excellent performance on many of our corporate sustainability goals. We are exceeding targets ahead of schedule in three of the four market-driven commitments including our investment in sustainability-focused R&D, the number of products that help make people safer, and revenue from non-depletable resources. This is our first year reporting against our new 2020 energy goal and we are already seeing strong progress. The momentum of this progress against our sustainability goals is strong and will continue, but there is more to be done. We are focused on addressing the key challenges of the future related to global population growth and looking for opportunities to innovate sustainable solutions. We have identified three specific global areas that come with a growing population: feeding the world, reducing dependence on fossil fuels and protecting people and the environment. Recognizing the unique expertise we bring to the challenges of feeding the growing global population, we announced in February 2012 a new set of goals specifically targeting needs in the areas of food and agriculture. We made commitments to produce more food, enhance nutrition and improve farming sustainability worldwide with a $10 billion investment in R&D and 4,000 new products planned for launch by the end of 2020. Because sustainable solutions to agricultural challenges rely on engagement, we also announced goals around youth and rural development. At DuPont, in all our very diverse businesses, sustainability is a powerful engine of growth. We recognize that we cannot do this alone. In 2011 we acquired Danisco, a sustainability leader, which strengthens our presence in nutrition and biosciences and brings exciting new bio-based products to market to help increase access to food. We also believe that strategic inclusive innovation with customers, governments, NGOs, and key thought leaders will be necessary to provide enough healthy food for people everywhere, decrease dependence on fossil fuels, and protect people and the environment for generations to come. Our work remains grounded in the core values of safety and health, environmental stewardship, highest ethical behavior and respect for people. Consistent with these core values, DuPont is proud to have been one of the first U.S.-based signatories to the United Nations Global Compact in 2001, and we continue to recognize the importance of the 10 Principles of the Global Compact today. While we have made progress, we recognize that there is more to do. Science and innovation are about designing a better future, and we are determined to continue on this journey through sustainable growth. Ellen Kullman Chair of the Board & Chief Executive Officer 4 1.2 Description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities. DuPont is a science company generating new products every year from our world class market-driven research and development. With each transformation of our company, we have become even more focused on sustainability issues. When environmental and safety laws and regulations were introduced in the 1970s and 1980s, our commitment focused on meeting those new requirements. In the late 1980s and 1990s, we realized that mere compliance was not sufficient, and that our stakeholders expected more from us. So we went beyond regulatory requirements and made voluntary commitments to reduce the environmental footprint of our facilities. Today, we are striving to integrate a holistic approach to sustainability into our business models. We are working to increase shareholder and societal value while striving for a goal of zero for all 2020 Energy Goal injuries, illnesses, incidents, waste and emissions. Reducing our energy intensity As a material, technology and knowledge provider, we can have far reaching impact on 2015 Sustainability Goals virtually every major industry in the world – from Reducing our Environmental Footprint agriculture to construction to transportation to • Greenhouse gas emissions communications. Our goal is to put our science to • Water conservation work to help our customers and their customers • Fleet fuel efficiency grow their businesses while contributing to social • Air carcinogens and environmental progress worldwide. Our • Independent verification of site 2015 Sustainability goals include a focus on how programs we plan to grow the company by investing our Serving the Marketplace R&D towards products that have a quantifiable • Environmentally smart market environmental benefit for our customers or the opportunities from R&D efforts final consumer. Our R&D assessment includes progress to reduce the impact of the supply chain • Revenues from Products that Reduce in areas like climate change, energy use, water Greenhouse Gas Emissions use, generation of pollution and waste, material • Revenues from Non-Depletable use, ecosystems, and use of non-depletable Resources resources. While we have made tremendous progress, we recognize that much more remains to be done. As a company that has been operating for over 200 years, we also acknowledge our legacy issues. We have established policies and processes around key impact areas such as biotechnology, biodiversity, biopersistent materials, climate change, and nanotechnology. Our strategic corporate sustainability activities are guided by the Environmental Policy Committee of the Board of Directors, chaired by Bertrand Collomb. This Committee is responsible for reviewing the company's environmental policies and practices. To develop and execute sustainable strategies, Annual Sustainability Reviews are conducted with the leadership of each of DuPont's businesses. These Reviews are structured to assess environmental performance and compliance, assess the business' contribution to corporate sustainability goals, and to discuss business risks and opportunities associated with sustainability, climate change, and energy. 5 It is our practice to identify risks early and manage them DuPont Core Values proactively through operational processes and line management. In addition to the efforts described above that are focused on • Safety & Health sustainability, individual functions and businesses within DuPont • Environmental Stewardship engage in processes to identify broader operational risks and • Highest Ethical Behavior opportunities. • Respect for People DuPont aims to meet its responsibilities under our safety, health, and environment (SHE) commitment (The DuPont Commitment), the American Chemistry Council’s Responsible Care® initiative (www.responsiblecare.org) and the International Council of Chemical Association’s (ICCA) voluntary initiative called the Global Product Strategy (GPS) (http://www.iccachem.org/). DuPont joined the GPD initiative when it was launched in 2006. The goal of the GPS is to ensure that society will continue to enjoy the value and benefits of chemistry, while industry and its partners continuously improve efforts to protect public safety, health, and the environment. As a member of the initiative, DuPont is assessing further the risk of its key chemicals in commerce by 2018. In 2012, DuPont is reporting Product Safety Summaries to provide a general overview of chemical substances as a part of our commitment to GPS. Please see our Product Stewardship Assessment & Summaries page for more information. To deliver on this initiative, DuPont has performed Product Stewardship Assessments to evaluate further the safety of the current uses of its chemicals. As the first step in the assessment process, DuPont analyzed its chemical inventory against the following prioritization criteria: • Business relevance • Hazard characteristics • Exposure potential • Detection in human blood, tissue, or urine • Potential impacts on selected populations and/or endpoints • Stakeholder feedback DuPont is evaluating the high-priority chemicals using a screening level risk assessment approach. This approach uses readily available hazard, use, and exposure information to determine the safety of these chemicals for current uses throughout the chain of commerce. For more information, please refer to http://www2.dupont.com/inclusive-innovations/en-us/gss/sustainability/commitments/productassessment.html. Through our science, we will design products and processes that pass rigorous criteria for reducing the use of energy, water and materials and encourage the development of products based on the use of renewable resources. We believe this is a direct route to a successful, profitable business that add value to our customers, their customers, consumers, and the planet. As part of the 2012 Sustainable Growth Review process we used a materiality analysis framework as a way to rank and prioritize sustainability trends for each business. Criteria that were used in our Sustainable Growth Review process to rank and prioritize the sustainability trends in relation to each other included: impact to business success (profitability, product acceptance, market demand, right to operate, ability to implement business strategy) and importance to stakeholders (employees, customers, community, shareholders, NGOs, government). 6 2.0 Organizational Profile 2.1 Name of the Organization. DuPont Company 2.2 Primary brands, products, and/or services. DuPont is a world leader in science and innovation across a range of disciplines, including agriculture and industrial biotechnology, chemistry, biology, materials science and manufacturing. The company operates globally and offers a wide range of innovative products and services for markets including agriculture and food, building and construction, electronics and communications, general industrial, transportation, and energy. The worldwide employment at December 31, 2011 was approximately 70,000 people. The company’s reportable segments are Agriculture, Electronics & Communications, Industrial Biosciences, Nutrition & Health, Performance Chemicals, Performance Coatings, Performance Materials, Safety & Protection, and Pharmaceuticals. For a comprehensive description of the business segments and a listing of the principal products by business segment, please refer to the DuPont 2011 Data Book and 2011 Form 10-K. 2.3 Operational Structure. The Board of Directors has an active responsibility for broad corporate policy and overall performance of the Company through oversight of management and stewardship of the Company to enhance the longterm value of the Company for its shareholders and the vitality of the Company for its other stakeholders. In carrying out its responsibility, the Board has specific functions, in addition to the general oversight of the management and the Company’s business performance, including providing input and perspective in evaluating alternative strategic initiatives; reviewing and, where appropriate, approving fundamental financial and business strategies and major corporate actions; ensuring processes are in place to maintain the integrity of the Company; evaluating and compensating the CEO; and planning for CEO succession and monitoring succession planning for other key positions. The DuPont Board of Directors Corporate Governance Guidelines, the Board-approved Charters of Audit, Compensation, and Corporate Governance Committees and other information on corporate governance are available in the 2012 Annual Meeting Proxy Statement. The Office of the Chief Executive has responsibility for overall direction and operations of all the businesses of the Company and broad corporate responsibility in such areas as corporate financial performance, environmental leadership and safety, and development of global talent, research and development and global effectiveness. All six members are executive officers and employees. For subsidiaries and joint ventures, please refer to Item 7 in the DuPont 2011 Form 10-K. 7 Information about the DuPont businesses can be found in 2.2 above. 2.4 Location of organization’s headquarters. Wilmington, Delaware United States 2.5 Number of countries where the organization operates. A list of the major global sites is available on pages 39 and 40 of the 2011 DuPont Data Book. Geographic Region Major Global Sites United States 103 in 37 states, including Puerto Rico Asia Pacific 57 sites in 12 countries Europe and Middle East 63 sites in 21 countries South America 20 sites in 5 countries Africa 3 sites in 3 countries Canada 8 sites Mexico 9 sites 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form. DuPont is a publicly traded company. As of February 29, 2012, 935,043,806 shares of DuPont Common Stock were outstanding. Please refer to page 1 of the DuPont 2012 Annual Meeting Proxy Statement. 2.7 Markets Served. 2011 Net Sales Geographic Region % of Total (USD in Millions) United States 13,289 35 Developed EMEA* 7,044 19 Developing EMEA** 2,925 8 Developed Asia 3,638 9 Developing Asia 5,262 14 Latin America 4,806 12 Canada 997 3 Total 37,961 100 *EMEA represents Europe, Middle East, and Africa **For a list of countries comprising “Developing Markets,” see the company’s Investor Center website at http://investors.dupont.com/phoenix.zhtml?c=73320&p=irol-irhome 8 Business Segments Agriculture Agriculture businesses, Pioneer Hi-Bred International, Inc. (Pioneer) and DuPont Crop Protection, leverage the company's technology, customer relationships and industry knowledge to improve the quantity, quality and safety of the global food supply and the global production agriculture industry. The segment's businesses deliver a broad portfolio of products and services that are specifically targeted to achieve gains in crop yields and productivity for the global production agriculture industry, including Pioneer® brand seed products and well-established brands of insecticides, fungicides and herbicides. Electronics & Communications Electronics & Communications (E&C) is a leading supplier of differentiated materials and systems for photovoltaics, consumer electronics, displays and advanced printing that enable superior performance and lower total cost of ownership for customers. The segment leverages DuPont's strong materials and technology base to target attractive growth opportunities in photovoltaic materials, circuit and semiconductor fabrication and packaging materials, display materials, packaging graphics, and ink-jet printing. Industrial Biosciences Industrial Biosciences is comprised of Danisco's enzyme business acquired in 2011, as well as the DuPontTM Sorona® renewably sourced polymer and BioPDOTM 1,3 propanediol businesses.. Industrial Biosciences leverages DuPont's unique combination of biotechnology, chemical, materials science and process engineering capabilities to deliver customer-driven, superior-performing, sustainable solutions. Industrial Biosciences is a leader in developing and manufacturing a wide range of enzymes, which are biocatalysts that enable chemical reactions, on a large scale. The segment's enzymes add value and functionality to a broad range of products and processes such as animal nutrition, detergents, food manufacturing, ethanol production and industrial applications resulting in cost and process benefits, better product performance and improved environmental outcomes. Nutrition & Health Nutrition & Health is comprised of Danisco's world leading specialty food ingredients business and Solae, a majority-owned venture with Bunge Limited, which is a world leader in developing soy based technologies. The segment is the premier provider of innovative solutions for specialty food ingredients, health and safety. The segment's products, which include cultures, emulsifiers, gums, natural sweeteners and soy-based food ingredients, hold leading market positions based on industry leading innovation, relevant product portfolio and closepartnering with the world's food manufacturers. Nutrition & Health serves various end markets within the food industry including meat, dairy, beverages and bakery segments. Nutrition & Health has research, production and distribution operations around the world. Performance Chemicals Performance Chemicals businesses, DuPont Titanium Technologies and DuPont Chemicals and Fluoroproducts, deliver customized solutions with a wide range of industrial and specialty chemical products for markets including plastics and coatings, textiles, mining, pulp and paper, water treatment and healthcare. Performance Coatings Performance Coatings is one of the world's leading motor vehicle coatings suppliers. Products offered include high performance liquid and powder coatings for motor vehicle original equipment manufacturers (OEMs), the motor 9 vehicle after-market, and general industrial applications, such as coatings for heavy equipment, pipes and appliances and electrical insulation. After-market coatings products are marketed using the DuPontTM Standox®, Spies Hecker®, Cromax Pro® and Nason® brand names. Standox®, Spies Hecker® and Cromax Pro® are focused on the high-end motor vehicle after-markets, while Nason® is primarily focused on economy coating applications. The segment has several large customers, primarily in the motor vehicle OEM industry supply chain. The company has long-standing relationships with these customers and they are considered to be important to the segments' operating results. Note that DuPont announced the divestment of its Performance Coatings segment in 2012. Performance Materials Performance Materials businesses, Performance Polymers and Packaging & Industrial Polymers, provide productive, higher performance polymers, elastomers, films, parts, and systems and solutions which improve the uniqueness, functionality and profitability of its customers' offerings. The key markets served by the segment include the automotive OEM and associated after-market industries, as well as electrical, packaging, construction, oil, electronics, photovoltaics, aerospace, chemical processing and consumer durable goods. The segment has several large customers, primarily in the motor vehicle OEM industry supply chain. The company has long-standing relationships with these customers and they are considered to be important to the segments' operating results. Safety & Protection Safety & Protection businesses, Protection Technologies, Sustainable Solutions and Building Innovations, satisfy the growing global needs of businesses, governments and consumers for solutions that make life safer, healthier and more secure. By uniting market-driven science with the strength of highly regarded brands, the segment delivers products and services to a large number of markets, including construction, transportation, communications, industrial chemicals, oil and gas, electric utilities, automotive, manufacturing, defense, homeland security and safety consulting. Pharmaceuticals On October 1, 2001, DuPont Pharmaceuticals was sold to the Bristol-Myers Squibb Company. 2.8 Scale of the reporting organization. At the end of 2011, the number of employees was approximately 70,000 and the net sales were $37,961 million. For net sales per geographic region, please refer to 2.7 above. Total Capitalization: Total Assets $48,492 million Total Debt $12,553 million Stockholders’ Equity $ 8,593 million DuPont has created thousands of products over its 210 years of operation. For details on 820 of those products, please refer to our Products & Services website: http://duponttools.force.com/ppf/ppfa_z?lang=en_US&country=USA&letterSelected=All. 10 Our services include Consulting Services and Process Technologies: • Asset Productivity and Reliability Consulting • Environmental Consulting and Technology Licensing • Workplace Safety and Consulting Security ownership of beneficial owners and management can be found in the DuPont 2011 Form 10-K. 2.9 Significant changes during the reporting period. Acquisition of Danisco In 2011, we acquired Danisco, a company with strong market positions in food ingredients and enzymes, thereby increasing our presence in the industrial biotechnology and food space. The acquisition will help to establish DuPont as a clear leader in industrial biotechnology with science-intensive innovations that address global challenges in food production and reduced fossil fuel consumption. For additional information, please refer to the DuPont 2011 Form 10-K, Part II, Item 7. 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period.  DuPont named to the Dow Jones Sustainability Index for North America  DuPont named to the Carbon Disclosure Leadership Index  DuPont named one of the world’s most admired companies by Fortune Magazine in 2011  DuPont named one of the top employers in Science Magazine’s Top Employers Annual Survey for the 5th year in a row  Queen Elizabeth II, Head of State of the United Kingdom, awarded a Queen’s Award for Enterprise in the Innovation category to DuPont for the continuous development of DuPont Solamet® photovoltaic metallization paste, a key component in increasing the efficiency of solar cells  The Wall Street Journal has recognized DuPont Qualicon’s innovative BAX® food safety system for its pioneering pathogen detection technology  Pioneer research fellow Bill Dolezal won the American Phytopathological Society 2011 Excellence in Industry Award for outstanding contributions to plant pathology  In 2011 DuPont Distinguished Scientist George Lahm was recognized with the Agrow Lifetime Achievement Award 11 3.0 Report Parameters 3.1 Reporting Period. The information provided is based on the 2011 corporate financial, health and safety, and environmental data. 3.2 Date of the most recent previous report. The last Sustainability Progress Report and GRI Report were issued in 2011. 3.3 Reporting Cycle. The reporting cycle is annual. 3.4 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its content. Camille Aylmer Sustainable Growth and SHE Excellence Center 1007 Market Street, DuPont Building Wilmington DE 19898 camille.aylmer@usa.dupont.com 3.5 Process for defining report content. The content of the report was largely guided by the established DuPont Sustainability Goals for footprint reduction, energy usage reduction, as well as market-facing to help our customers and consumers improve their environmental performance. The development of these goals were guided by the DuPont sustainable growth mission, key interests expressed by stakeholders, relevant regulatory requirements, and concerns expressed by society. DuPont considers as stakeholders our employees, customers and suppliers, shareholders, and society at large. Examples of our many stakeholder engagement activities include: • Global employee surveys • Community Advisory Panels or interaction processes in place for almost every DuPont plant site around the world • Biotechnology Advisory Panel • Health Advisory Board • Partnerships on global climate change with the World Resources Institute, Environmental Defense, The Pew Center for Global Climate Change and the Keystone Center • Partnership on nanotechnology with the Environmental Defense • Partnerships and collaborations with key science and technology organizations, institutions, and individuals to enhance societal value • Ongoing discussions with the investment community, including the annual Investment Community meeting and DuPont Business Review Teleconference Series 12 • Ongoing interaction with government bodies, news media and non-government organizations at the local, state, national, and international level It is our intent to develop the report that captures the attention and interest of our many regionally and culturally diverse stakeholders and audience. DuPont publishes both hard and electronic copies of the Sustainability Progress Report, which is a short brochure that succinctly highlights the material economic, social, and environmental goals. For more detailed sustainability data and information, an electronic copy of our GRI report is published. Both reports are located at www.sustainability.dupont.com. 3.6 Boundary of the report. The report includes all wholly owned DuPont operations and subsidiaries that are directly controlled by DuPont, unless otherwise stated. Such control exists when DuPont has the power to govern the financial and operating policies of the subsidiary in general either when DuPont directly or indirectly owns more than half of the voting rights of the subsidiary, or when control can be otherwise legally evidenced. 3.7 State any specific limitations on the scope or boundary. Within the context of the boundary of the report as defined in 3.6, there are no specific limitations. 3.8 Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, leased facilities, outsourced operations, and other entities that can significantly affect comparability. The basis for reporting does not significantly affect the comparability from period to period. 3.9 Data measurement techniques and the bases of calculations. DuPont collects information through several Information Management Processes and Systems that have been developed to meet specific data collection requirements. Our Corporate Environmental Planning (CEP) process collects data on energy use and emissions from DuPont facilities for use in tracking and reporting our performance. Our Safety, Health and Environmental Injury/Illness and Incident data are collected through our Incident Tracking System (ITS) and the Distribution Incident System (DINS). Internal processes are in place to review and validate the accuracy of the data. The DuPont ISO 14001based Environmental Management System (EMS), which is in place at the majority of our manufacturing facilities, establishes expectations for calibration and maintenance of measuring equipment and instruments used in the collection of data. Our Manage it Central (MitC) system is used to ensure that corrective and preventive actions are taken to maintain the integrity of the EMS. Each of these examples is global in scope, and defines data collection and the bases of calculations for the respective system. 3.10 Explanation of the effect of any re-statements of information provided in earlier reports. There are no re-statements. 3.11 Significant changes from previous reporting periods. There are no significant changes. 13 3.12 Table identifying the location of the Standard Disclosures. The GRI index is provided at the end of this report. 3.13 Policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance. External assurance was not obtained for the development of this report. However, DuPont has policies and internal practices to enhance and provide assurance about the accuracy of the report. For instance, internal and second-party audits are conducted on most of the DuPont key activities including safety, health, and environmental performance, financial accounting and compliance with the ethics and business conduct guide. DuPont has contracted with a third party verifier to review global greenhouse gas emission and energy use data that is reported externally. Our 2011 data met the requirements for limited assurance consistent with the ISO 14064-3 standard. 14 4.0 Governance, Commitments, and Engagement 4.1 Governance structure of the organization. The Board of Directors has an active responsibility for broad corporate policy and overall performance of the Company through oversight of management and stewardship of the Company to enhance the longterm value of the Company for its shareholders and the vitality of the Company for its other stakeholders. In carrying out its responsibility, the Board has specific functions, in addition to the general oversight of the management and the Company’s business performance, including providing input and perspective in evaluating alternative strategic initiatives; reviewing and, where appropriate, approving fundamental financial and business strategies and major corporate actions; ensuring processes are in place to maintain the integrity of the Company; evaluating and compensating the CEO; and planning for CEO succession and monitoring succession planning for other key positions. A substantial majority of the Board are independent directors in accordance with the standards of independence of the New York Stock Exchange and as described in the Guidelines on pages 6 and 7 of the 2012 Annual Meeting Proxy Statement. The Committees of the Board include:  Audit Responsibilities include: o Employs the Company’s independent registered public accounting firm, subject to stockholder ratification, to audit the Company’s Consolidated Financial Statements. o Pre-approves all services performed by the Company’s independent registered public accounting firm. o Provides oversight on the external reporting process and the adequacy of the Company’s internal controls. o Reviews the scope of the audit activities of the independent registered public accounting firm and the Company’s internal auditors and appraises audit efforts of both. o Reviews services provided by the Company’s independent registered public accounting firm and other disclosed relationships as they bear on the independence of the Company’s independent registered public accounting firm. o Establishes procedures for the receipt, retention and resolution of complaints regarding accounting, internal controls or auditing matters.  Compensation Responsibilities include: o Establishes executive compensation policy consistent with corporate objectives and stockholder interests. o Oversees process for evaluating performance of the Chief Executive Officer (CEO) against Board-approved goals and objectives and recommends to the Board compensation for the CEO. o Reviews and approves grants under the Company’s compensation plans. o Works with management to develop the Compensation Discussion and Analysis (CD&A). o Oversees succession planning process for the CEO and key leadership. 15  Corporate Governance Responsibilities include: o Recommends to the Board nominees for election to the Board of Directors. o Reviews principles, policies and procedures affecting directors and the Board’s operation and effectiveness. o Oversees evaluation of the Board and its effectiveness.  Environmental Policy Responsibilities include: o Reviews the Company’s environmental policies and practices. o Provides support for the Company’s sustainable growth mission.  Science and Technology Responsibilities include: o Monitors state of science and technology capabilities within the Company. o Oversees the development of key technologies essential to the long-term success of the Company. In addition, Linda J. Fisher, Vice President of DuPont Safety, Health, and Environment and Chief Sustainability Officer, is responsible for advancing the company’s progress in achieving sustainable growth; safety, health and environmental programs; product stewardship programs; and global regulatory affairs. Of the 11 board members, 3 (27 percent) are women and 1 (9 percent) is African American. More information about the board members, including their age, can be found on page 16 of the 2012 Annual Meeting Proxy Statement. For additional information, please refer to the 2012 Annual Meeting Proxy Statement. 4.2 Indicate whether the Chair of the highest governance body is also an executive officer. Ellen Kullman is the Chair of the Board of Directors and Chief Executive Officer. Mr. Alexander Cutler, an independent director, serves as the Presiding Director and is also Chair of the Corporate Governance Committee. 4.3 State the number of members of the highest governance body that are independent and/or non-executive members. Of the 11 members of the Board of Directors, 10 are independent. 4.4 Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to provide recommendations or direction to the highest governance body. Stockholders and other parties interested in communicating directly with the Board, Chair, Presiding Director or other outside director may do so by writing in care of the Corporate Secretary, DuPont Company, 1007 Market Street, D9058, Wilmington, DE 19898. The Board’s independent directors have approved procedures for handling correspondence received by the Company and addressed to the Board, Chair, Presiding Director or other outside director. Concerns relating to accounting, internal controls, auditing or ethical matters are immediately brought to the attention of the Company’s internal audit function and handled in accordance with procedures established by the Audit Committee with 16 respect to such matters, which include an anonymous toll-free hotline (1-800-476-3016) and a website through which to report issues (https://reportanissue.com/dupont/welcome). For employees, any allegations or breaches of the Code of Conduct are investigated promptly and disciplinary actions around confirmed violations are taken. Compliance Officers, Human Resources, Legal and Finance representatives serve as resources and focal points for employees to answer questions on code of conduct. The company maintains an employee ethics hotline for the reporting of suspected misconduct consistent with applicable laws. Employees can also provide input through periodic employee surveys. 4.5 Linkage between compensation for members of the highest governance body, senior managers, and executives and the organization’s performance. At DuPont, we are focused on delivering sustainable growth, increasing stockholder and societal value, and decreasing our environmental footprint. We strive to accomplish growth and innovation within our core values, which include safety and health, environmental stewardship, highest ethical behavior, and respect for people. The executive compensation programs at DuPont are designed to attract, motivate, reward and retain the high quality executives necessary for the leadership of the Company and accomplishment of our strategies. The following principles guide the design and administration of those compensation programs:  There should be a strong link between pay and performance.  Executives’ interests should be aligned with those of our stockholders.  Programs should reinforce business strategies and drive long-term sustained stockholder value. The Board of Directors Compensation Committee is responsible for establishing executive compensation policies and programs consistent with corporate objectives and shareholder interests. The Committee operates under a written charter adopted by the Board. The charter is reviewed on an annual basis and revised as appropriate. The Committee’s membership is determined by the Board and is composed entirely of independent directors. For additional information, please refer to the 2012 Annual Meeting Proxy Statement. 4.6 Processes in place for the highest governance body to ensure conflicts of interests are avoided. The purpose and responsibilities of the Board of Directors Corporate Governance Committee include recommending to the Board nominees for election as directors. The Committee’s members are independent under the Board’s Corporate Governance Guidelines and the New York Stock Exchange standard. The Board’s Corporate Governance Guidelines describe qualifications for directors. Directors are selected for their integrity and character; sound, independent judgment; breadth of experience, insight and knowledge; and business acumen. Leadership skills, scientific or technology expertise, familiarity with issues affecting global businesses in diverse industries, prior government service, and diversity are among the relevant criteria, which will vary over time depending on the needs of the Board. 17 Additionally, directors are expected to be willing and able to devote the necessary time, energy and attention to assure diligent performance of their responsibility. When considering candidates for nomination, the Committee takes into account these factors to assure that new directors have the highest personal and professional integrity, have demonstrated exceptional ability and judgment and will be most effective, in conjunction with other directors, in serving the longterm interest of all stockholders. The Committee will not nominate for election as a director a partner, member, managing director, executive officer or principal of any entity that provides accounting, consulting, legal, investment banking or financial advisory services to the Company. For further information, please refer to the 2012 Annual Meeting Proxy Statement. 4.7 Process for determining the qualifications and expertise of the members of the highest governance body. The Board of Directors Corporate Governance Committee considers potential candidates suggested by Board members, as well as management, stockholders and others. Cultural, racial and gender diversity is taken into consideration. Please also refer to 4.6 above. The Director Nomination Process is available in Appendix A of the 2012 Annual Meeting Proxy Statement. 4.8 Internally developed statements of mission or values, codes of conduct, and principles relevant to economic, environmental, and social performance and the status of their implementation. Vision: To be the world’s most dynamic science company, creating sustainable solutions essential to a better, safer, healthier life for people everywhere. Mission: Sustainable growth which we define as the creation of shareholder and societal value while we reduce our environmental footprint along the value chains in which we operate. Core Values: These are the cornerstone of who we are and what we stand for safety and health, environmental stewardship, highest ethical behavior, and respect for people. The DuPont Code of Conduct consolidates all Company policies with respect to business ethics and conflict of interest for the Company and its subsidiaries, affiliated companies, and joint venture arrangements in which it has a majority interest or for which it has operating responsibility. There is mandatory training for all employees. Please refer to the DuPont Code of Conduct. 4.9 Procedures of the highest governance body for overseeing the organization’s identification and management of economic, environmental, and social performance. The Board has an active responsibility for broad corporate policy and overall performance of the company through oversight of management and stewardship of the Company to enhance long-term value of the Company for its shareholders and the vitality of the Company for its other stakeholders. The Environmental Policy Committee focuses specifically on environmental policies and practices and provides support for the Company’s sustainable growth mission. 18 Please refer to 4.1 above and the 2012 Annual Meeting Proxy Statement for responsibilities for each Committee of the Board. 4.10 Processes for evaluating the highest governance body’s own performance. DuPont is committed to having sound corporate governance principles and practices. The Board and each Committee make an annual self-evaluation of its performance with a particular focus on overall effectiveness. The Corporate Governance Committee is responsible for overseeing the self-evaluation process. 4.11 Explanation of whether and how the precautionary approach or principle is addressed. DuPont maintains a strong commitment to safety, health and environmental excellence, we affirm to all our stakeholders, including our employees, customers, shareholders and the public, that we will conduct our business with respect and care for the environment. We continuously analyze and improve our practices, processes and products to reduce their risk and impact through the product life cycle. We develop new products and processes that have increasing margins of safety for both human health and the environment. We work with our suppliers, carriers, distributors, and customers to achieve similar product stewardship and we provide information and assistance to support their efforts to do so. Our company’s commitment is also reflected as a leader in the development of Responsible Care® and we were one of the first chemical companies to adopt the American Chemical Council’s Responsible Care® Codes of Management Practices, which were initiated in the late 1980s. DuPont has also led efforts to expand Responsible Care® to encompass advances such as security, public reporting of metrics, and management systems certification. DuPont also performs Product Stewardship Assessments to evaluate further the safety of the current uses of its chemicals. We are a member of the International Council of Chemical Association’s (ICCA) voluntary initiative called the Global Product Strategy (GPS). The goal of the GPS is to ensure that society will continue to enjoy the value and benefits of chemistry, while industry and its partners continuously improve efforts to protect public safety, health, and the environment. The goal of the initiative is to improve product stewardship within the chemical industry and with suppliers and customers throughout the chain of commerce. For detailed information on these commitments, please visit our efforts at Sustainability Performance and Reporting at http://www2.dupont.com/inclusive-innovations/enus/gss/sustainability/performance-reporting.html. 4.12 Externally developed economic, environmental, and social charters, principles, or other initiatives. We believe that working in partnership with others and committing to voluntary initiatives are important in demonstrating leadership. Commitment on UN Global Compact 19 DuPont is committed to aligning our operations and strategies with ten universally accepted principles in the areas of human rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption. Commitment on Responsible Care Management System DuPont was one of the first chemical companies to adopt the American Chemical Council’s Responsible Care® Codes of Management Practices, which were initiated in the late 1980s. Since then, DuPont has led efforts to expand Responsible Care® to encompass advances such as security, public reporting of metrics, and management systems certification. Commitment on Climate and Energy We believe the global scientific understanding of climate change is sufficient to compel prompt, effective actions to limit emissions of greenhouse gases. To be successful at the necessary global scale these actions will require concerted engagement by the world’s governments, along with technological innovations by businesses, and individual actions by all citizens. We believe any strategy to address climate change must be both environmentally effective and economically sustainable. Policy solutions must be good for the environment, for business, and for people around the world. The magnitude of innovation and action required to effectively address climate change is unparalleled. DuPont is focused both on reducing our own footprint and on delivering solutions that help our customers conserve and use energy efficiently. We are applying our science to develop technologies and materials that will help enable energy generation, improve efficiency, and reduce greenhouse gas emissions across value chains in a wide range of sectors.  DuPont continues to participate in the Carbon Disclosure Project where we publicly report our corporate greenhouse gas emissions data and associated climate risks and opportunities.  To encourage environmentally effective and economically sustainable policy actions, DuPont is actively engaging with policymakers and other business and NGO stakeholders from around the world to develop constructive public policies to address global climate change. DuPont’s belief in the importance of taking prompt, coordinated, and strong action to address climate change is why we were a founding member of the U.S. Climate Action Partnership (USCAP), an alliance of major businesses and leading NGOs that came together to call on the U.S. federal government to enact legislation requiring significant reductions of greenhouse gas emissions. Commitment on Nanotechnology DuPont and Environmental Defense collaborate on a framework for the responsible development, production, use and disposal of nano-scale materials. The intent of this framework is to define a systematic and disciplined process that can be used to identify, manage and reduce potential health, safety and environmental risks of nano-scale materials across all lifecycle stages. These materials hold great promise for new applications in materials, energy, medicine and other fields. Commitment on Biotechnology DuPont is putting science to work by creating sustainable solutions essential to a better, safer, healthier life everywhere. With a world population expected to reach nearly nine billion by 2050, biotechnology offers new potential for meeting the world's demand for food, feed, fuel and materials while reducing our footprint on the planet. We believe the broad field of biotechnology presents important opportunities that should be explored and developed to identify those safe and commercially viable applications that bring significant benefits to society. 20 DuPont formed an independent Biotechnology Advisory Panel which audits our progress and provides a public report on a regular basis. For detailed information, please refer to our Guiding Principles. 4.13 Memberships in associations and/or national/international advocacy organizations. DuPont participates in many associations at the regional, national, and international level. In addition to 4.12, our other primary memberships include: • American Chemistry Council (ACC) • World Economic Forum • European Chemical Industry Council (CEFIC) • World Business Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD) • Business Roundtable (BRT) • Field to Market, the Keystone Alliance for Sustainable Agriculture • Global Harvest Initiative • CropLife America and CropLife International • Africa Harvest Biotech Foundation International • World Resources Institute • Center for Climate and Energy Solutions (C2ES) (formerly the Pew Center on Global Climate Change) • Global Environmental Management Initiative (GEMI) 4.14 List of stakeholder groups DuPont engages a number of stakeholder groups including the communities in which we operate, customers, suppliers, shareholders and the investment community, employees and retirees, as well as a number of non-profit environmental and advocacy organizations. Some specific stakeholder groups include:  DuPont established a Health Advisory Board to help us ask the right questions, to provide strategic advice and input to leadership on health and health-related issues, and to support DuPont’s efforts in approaching health and health-related issues in a manner that is well informed, scientifically sound and ethical. The members of the Health Advisory Board are internationally regarded leaders in health and medicine, representing a variety of backgrounds and affiliations to promote complete and impartial perspectives.  The DuPont External Biotechnology Advisory Panel was established in 2000 with independent representatives from around the world with diverse academic, vocational and cultural expertise and backgrounds. The Panel meets regularly with our Chair of the Board and senior executives. Their opinions have impacted our decisions in our research pipeline, regulatory strategy, new technology introductions and stewardship practices around the world.  DuPont establishes Community Advisory Panels at many of our global operating sites to engage our neighbors in discussions about our activities and their concerns and needs. Members of the Panels do not work for the company, but may be regarded as representatives of the neighborhood. 21 4.15 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage. Stakeholders are identified based on community engagement activities, key customers and suppliers of specific business units, investor relations’ initiatives, and through specific processes to understand societal concerns such as the Biotechnology Advisory Panel and Health Advisory Board. 4.16 Approaches to stakeholder engagement. Given the diversity of the company and the global locations in which we operate, approaches to and frequency of stakeholder engagements are determined at the corporate and regional level. Some examples include: • Communities Community Advisory Panels are established for nearly every global DuPont operating site. Each site determines the frequency of the interaction that makes the most sense for the community. • External Biotechnology Advisory Panel and Health Advisory Board meets twice per year plus additional consultations via phone or email. • Other Stakeholders – Customers, suppliers, investors and shareholders, community leaders and organizations, key customers and trade associations, and retiree and employee groups are tailored to the needs and interests of each. 4.17 Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement and how the organization has responded. Stakeholder engagement and use of the information are considered a key strategy of DuPont in meeting our mission of sustainable growth. Specific examples are listed below.  Based on the ongoing dialogue with the Health Advisory Board, the Leadership Principles on Biopersistent Materials were developed.  Based on the ongoing dialogue with the Biotechnology Advisory Panel, a set of Bioethics Guiding Principles were developed.  Partnership with the Environmental Defense to develop standards of care for nanotechnology.  Publication of DuPont corporate, regional and operating site reports.  Investor relations conducts its own stakeholder engagement.  DuPont actively engages with multiple stakeholders in keeping with our animal testing policy. For example, DuPont has engaged in an ongoing dialogue since 2006 with the People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals (PETA), which involves ongoing discussions about non-animal test methods, animal husbandry approaches, and advocating for appropriate standards and regulations. This interaction has been very useful in helping us continuously evaluate and enhance our practices and to maintain the commitments outlined in our policy. 22 Economic Summary Our Mission: Sustainable Growth The creation of shareholder and societal value while we reduce our environmental footprint along the value chains in which we operate. Our business is sustainable growth. Working in partnership with others, we are building sustainability into our products as well as into the way we make them. Sustainability is central to our total value proposition, impacting not only our business, but every customer and every consumer we touch, everywhere in the world. The Needs of the World Drive Our Science Global population growth and associated growth in the middle class are creating distinct megatrends throughout the world. Megatrends provide DuPont the opportunity to bring our unmatched science to the marketplace, creating game-changing solutions in constant collaboration with customers and key partners. Each megatrend presents opportunities for DuPont collaborative science and solutions. Together, we can feed the world One in seven people on earth goes to bed hungry each night. Ensuring that enough healthy, nutritious food is available for people everywhere is one of the most critical challenges we face. At DuPont, we commit 50 percent of our research and development dollars to ensuring that the world's growing population has enough food. From advancing the nutritional content of crops, to helping farmers and growers around the world increase their yields, to finding better ways to ensure food safety, we're working every day to get more food to more people. Together, we can decrease dependence on fossil fuels The global supply of fossil fuels is limited. Inefficient use of our remaining fossil fuels can adversely affect our environment. With a growing population, we will need to find new energy sources, and ways to use our existing resources more responsibly. DuPont possesses deep knowledge and experience in microbiology, fermentation, polymer science and electrochemistry, which means we can help the world transition from fossil fuels to more sustainable alternatives. From cutting-edge solar panels to lighter, more fuel-efficient car components, these transitions will fuel new industries and power cleaner economies. Together, we can protect what matters most As our population increases, so do the threats to human safety and the well-being of the planet. One of our greatest challenges in the coming decades will be adequately protecting humanity and the world we share. DuPont is working with companies, governments, academics and scientists to develop a vast range of materials, products and consulting solutions that protect life and our ecosystem. From life-saving body and car armor to cleaner refrigerants, we’re working to keep the most precious things on earth, and the earth itself, safe from harm. 23 Some of Our Key Actions in 2011 • DuPont completed the acquisition of Danisco, a global leader in enzyme and specialty food ingredients. Danisco had been a long-time successful partner of DuPont and a proven innovator committed to sustainable growth. • DuPont™ Sorona® renewably sourced fiber is one of the first 11 products approved to use the United States Department of Agriculture (USDA) new product label on certified biobased products. • DuPont launched a new generation of corn hybrids developed and tested to help deliver a yield advantage in water-limited environments, allowing growers to minimize risk and maximize productivity. These hybrids are offered to growers under the Optimum® AQUAmax™ brand name through DuPont business Pioneer Hi-Bred. • FORTUNE magazine listed DuPont among the world’s most admired companies in 2011. DuPont was the only company in its industry sector named to FORTUNE’s Top 50 “Most Admired Companies” list. Overall, DuPont moved up six spots from last year to no. 43 in 2011. • DuPont announced its sponsorship of a new BBC series Horizons. The television program examines the future of business by looking at companies around the world that are making the greatest progress in their sectors and influencing the way people will live in the future. Horizons airs around the globe on the BBC World News networks. • DuPont acquired Innovalight, Inc., a company specializing in advanced silicon inks and process technologies that increase the efficiency of crystalline silicon solar cells. The acquisition further strengthens DuPont’s position as a leader in materials technology for the solar energy market. • Toyota’s new hybrid vehicle, “Prius α” (Prius alpha), features automotive interiors made of DuPont™ Sorona® EP polymer, a high-performance, renewably sourced thermoplastic resin. Sorona® EP was selected for this precisely engineered, functional component for its heat resistance, durability and ability to maintain great appearance. • DuPont published its 2011 Sustainability Progress Report that shows the company’s environmental footprint continues to shrink. DuPont delivered a 75 percent decrease in greenhouse gas emissions and a 6 percent reduction in absolute energy use since 1990, while increasing production 40 percent during that same period. 24 Economic Performance Indicators EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed, including revenues, operating costs, employee compensation, donations and other community investments, retained earnings, and payments to capital providers and governments. 2011 Economic Value Retained (US Dollars in Millions) Revenues 38,719 Operating Costs 25,590 Wages / Benefits 8,366 [Economic value generated] Payments to Providers of Capital 1,980 Payments to Governments 656 Community Investments (Philanthropy) 34 [Economic value Economic Value Retained 2,093 retained] The amounts presented above represent results on a total company basis, including the results of discontinued operations. Operating costs include $513 million of charges representing significant items as outlined on Schedule B of the company’s earnings news release furnished on Form 8-K with the SEC on January 24, 2012. Payments to providers of capital include $1,533 million in dividend payments. Taxes Paid (US Dollars in Millions) North America 265 Asia Pacific 118 Latin America 26 Europe, Middle East, and Africa 206 For further detail, please refer to the DuPont 2011 Form 10-K and Data Book. 25 EC2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the organization’s activities due to climate change. DuPont assesses the potential financial implications of climate risks and opportunities to varying degrees of specificity depending on the timeframe and likelihood of impact. In many cases the costs associated with actions taken to reduce and manage these risks and opportunities are part of broader activities related to our efforts to strategically manage climate change, and it is therefore difficult to estimate the specific cost associated with individual risk or opportunity drivers. Changing consumer behavior: As DuPont analyzes factors shaping the markets that we serve in the years ahead we have identified three megatrends: Improving food productivity, reducing dependence on fossil fuels and protecting people and the environment. As we look at our existing product portfolio and consider new product development we us these megatrends as one tool to help frame our thinking about expectations for growth and future market demand. Of our $2 billion R&D investment in 2011, 86 percent was associated with developing solutions in those three areas. DuPont is uniquely positioned to address the rising demand for secure, environmentally sustainable and affordable energy sources. With a growing population, we will need to use our existing resources more responsibly and find new and cleaner energy sources. DuPont is applying deep expertise in microbiology, fermentation, polymer science and electrochemistry to help make cars lighter, fuels cleaner, and sustainable energy sources, such as the sun, easier to harness — all contributing to a lower carbon future. To create more of a business focus on product opportunities related to climate change and environmental markets more broadly, DuPont included market-facing goals in our October 2006 launch of our 2015 Sustainability Goals. The market-facing goals are aimed at capturing value in a carbonconstrained world by tying our business growth more directly to the development of products that have environmental benefits and help our customers increase their energy efficiency and/or reduce their greenhouse gas footprint. DuPont reports on progress toward this goal and our other Sustainability Goals in annual progress reports posted on www.sustainability.dupont.com. We anticipate that limiting carbon emissions will drive demand for DuPont products and services that serve a low-carbon economy. Many of DuPont’s existing products provide improved safety, efficiency, and environmental benefit in our homes, offices, and automobiles. Increased climate change mitigation efforts (resulting from voluntary or mandatory greenhouse gas emission reductions) could drive expanded demand in some of DuPont’s major markets, such as automotive materials, building materials, seed products and services, and biofuels. Given the diversity of products and services that DuPont produces for sale in a wide range of global markets, financial opportunities as they specifically relate to climate change are not formally assessed for the company overall. Individual businesses whose portfolios include products that could be particularly impacted by climate policies or a transition to a low-carbon economy take into consideration relevant issues (e.g. potential for increased product demand resulting from policies or other incentives; regulatory action on nitrogen fertilizer use in the agricultural sector; anticipated growth in certain markets such as alternative fuels; etc). Expectations for new or expanded markets driven by demand for products that enable climate change mitigation or adaptation and the strategic implications for certain DuPont businesses are discussed during some of the Sustainable Growth Reviews. These reviews are led by Sustainable Growth Center leadership and conducted with individual DuPont businesses. 26 For some of the new and emerging markets that DuPont serves (e.g. renewable / alternative energy) there are industry estimates of anticipated growth, but estimates vary widely and actual market growth will depend in large part on the speed of technological innovation as well as the implementation of policies that will accelerate research, development, demonstration, and deployment of key technologies. EC3 Coverage of the organization’s defined benefit plan obligations. The company has various obligations to its employees and retirees. The company maintains retirementrelated programs in many countries that have a long-term impact on the company’s earnings and cash flows. Employees are offered 401(K) plans or defined benefit pension plans, as well as medical, dental and life insurance benefits for pensioners and survivors and disability and life insurance protection for employees (other long-term employee benefits). Approximately 80 percent of the company’s worldwide benefit obligation for pensions and essentially all of the company’s worldwide other longterm employee benefit obligations are attributable to the U.S. benefit plans. Pension coverage for employees of the company’s non-U.S. consolidated subsidiaries is provided, to the extent deemed appropriate, through separate plans. The company regularly explores alternative solutions to meet its global pension obligations in the most cost effective manner possible as demographics, life expectancy and country-specific pension funding rules change. Where permitted by applicable law, the company reserves the right to change, modify or discontinue its plans that provide pension, medical, dental, life insurance and disability benefits. (See LA3 for more information) For plans other than the principal U.S. pension plan, pension expense is typically determined using the fair value of assets. The fair value of assets in all pension plans was $17.8 billion at December 31, 2011, and the related projected benefit obligations were $27.1 billion. In addition, obligations under the company’s unfunded other long-term employee benefit plans were $4.4 billion at December 31, 2011. For further details, please refer to Item 7 (pages 28 and 29) and page F-27 through F-34 in the DuPont 2011 Form 10-K. EC4 Significant financial assistance received from government. In the normal course of business, DuPont may seek research and development programs that use government cost share and that are aligned with corporate strategies and polices. EC5 Range of ratios of standard entry level wage compared to local minimum wage at significant locations of operation. DuPont offers competitive compensation packages that are complemented by a comprehensive benefits program. This is a benchmarked process. As part of our human rights policy, we pay wages that meet or exceed the legally required wages or, where no wage law exists, the local industry standard. EC8 Development and impact of infrastructure investments and services provided primarily for public benefit through commercial, in-kind, or pro bono engagement. DuPont has contributed approximately $34 million in 2011 to support a broad array of community programs. Below highlights some examples of our collaborations and investments that benefit communities 27 United Way Days of Caring in the United States and Canada Another way that distinguishes our commitment to our communities is through employee involvement in United Way Days of Caring. Annually, thousands of DuPonters are given paid time off to perform volunteer services for local non-profit agencies in our communities. Community services included planting vegetables for food banks and painting the offices of the Boys and Girls Club and the homes of low income families. DuPont Community Fund The DuPont Community Fund was established to improve the quality of life and enhance the vitality of communities in which we operate. For DuPont, recognizing the inter-dependence of social progress, economic success and environmental excellence is the first step to achieving community sustainability. The DuPont Community Fund provides support to numerous programs and organizations annually that address one or more of the three key components in community sustainability. Research Collaboration to Fight Malnutrition in Africa Poverty, drought and climate change are issues impacting agricultural productivity requiring technology advances and innovations for farmers. DuPont is partnering with Africa Harvest Biotech Foundation International to develop a more nutritious sorghum to help feed the 300 million people in rural Africa that rely on it for daily nourishment. The Sorghum project also trains African scientists on the technology used and the regulatory requirements through a visiting scientist program at Pioneer HiBred headquarters in Iowa. EC9 Understanding and describing significant indirect economic impacts, including the extent of impacts. DuPont does not aggregate the indirect economic impact of our collaborations and contributions. We do have specific programs, in addition to our Community Fund (please refer to EC8), that provide support to our communities. DuPont launched its commitment to science research and science education in 1918, becoming the first corporation to award scholarships and fellowships to chemists at 48 colleges and universities in the United States. Today, the Center for Collaborative Research & Education continues to facilitate DuPont partnerships with universities and government laboratories worldwide; collaborates with DuPont Strategic Business Units globally to deploy developing technologies and develop new revenue sources from intellectual property; and invests in science education programs to ensure science literacy, workforce preparation and business and community sustainability. DuPont invests in science education and scientific research through a variety of programs that range from kindergarten classrooms to college and university laboratories. For example, our Elementary Science Initiative ensures science literacy in communities where we operate. Our Higher Education Initiatives contribute to workforce preparation and link DuPont scientists and engineers with colleagues in academic communities. 28 Environmental Summary Please refer to the 2012 Sustainability Progress Report located at www.sustainabilty.dupont.com. The Report provides our progress towards achieving our eleven sustainability goals that focus on reducing our footprint and energy needs as well as researching and developing products. Each year, societal expectations for corporations like DuPont continue to evolve. The conversation that began largely between the NGO community and companies has taken on a new dynamic as more and more companies engage their supply chain partners around issues of sustainability. Here at DuPont we continue to evolve our own thinking on sustainability and have been actively engaged in shaping the broader discussion, rather than just reacting to it. Our first sustainability progress report was written in 1992, at a time when society was asking questions about pollution and environmental responsibility. There was no precedent for corporate responsibility, no best practices to follow. We learned by listening to our stakeholders and the issues that mattered most to them, and responded proactively by publicly establishing some of the first corporate environmental goals. In 2006, we broadened our vision of sustainability to include bringing products to market that help our customers be more sustainable. At that time we announced our 2015 market-facing goals, while building on our footprint reduction targets. This year we are reporting very strong progress in the market-facing goals, as well as improvements against many, though not all, of our footprint goals. We are currently ahead of our commitments to hold water use flat and reduce air carcinogens, and we are tracking well for our 2015 goals regarding an energy efficient, off-site automotive fleet and ISO 14001 certifications for our global plant sites. Our greenhouse gas emissions increased from 2010 to 2011, and we will be examining opportunities to manage and reduce our emissions. Because we see water as a looming societal issue, we are also looking for creative solutions to reduce water consumption to help mitigate water shortages in scarce or stressed areas. The next step in our sustainability journey is to prepare for tomorrow’s global population growth, focusing our efforts on solving major societal and environmental challenges in food, energy and protection. In this way, we are committed to helping future generations meet their needs in the areas where science can play a role. The issue of providing food that has a low impact on the environment and is healthy and accessible demonstrates the interconnectedness of these challenges with sustainability. Food is connected to the planet that bears it, the water that nurtures it, the ecosystems that coexist with it, and the people who need access to it. We have taken very specific steps in responding to the challenge of global food security and are already seeing the impact of this progress. We continue to collaborate with value chain partners and other stakeholders to determine specific commitments that DuPont can make to drive progress in the areas of energy security and protecting people and the environment. We see all three of the challenges representing opportunities for long-term thinking and for sustainable solutions to be implemented on a global scale. Our journey has given us a breadth of experience. We look forward to continuing on this path using the power of science and innovation to develop solutions for tomorrow’s challenges. Linda J. Fisher Vice President & Chief Sustainability Officer 29 Environmental Performance Indicators EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary energy source. The total amount of fuel consumed by DuPont in 2011 was approximately 31.8 million Megawatt hours (MWh) or 114 million gigajoules. The increase in comparison to 2010 is attributable primarily to the acquisition of Danisco and taking operational control of a cogeneration facility that supplies substantial electricity and steam to non-DuPont operations, as well as DuPont. For a breakdown by fuel type: Fuel Type MWh Gigajoules Bituminous Coal 1,857,418 6,686,705 Diesel Fuel 3,935 14,165 Distillate Fuel Oil (#1,#2) 230,206 828,742 Hydrogen 7,150 25,739 Kerosene 318 1,146 Liquefied Petroleum Gas (LPG) 30,694 110,500 Liquid Petroleum Gas 3,317 11,941 Natural Gas 26,573,222 95,663,598 Off-Gas 325,471 1,171,694 Petrol/Gasoline 3,058 11,008 Propane 10,467 37,680 Refinery Fuel Gas (RFG) 105,777 380,795 Residual Fuel Oil (#4,#5,#6) 1,124,509 4,048,233 Toluene 174,034 626,522 Waste Gas 1,278,078 4,601,082 Waste Liquid 22,157 79,764 Other: Various miscellaneous 2,383 8,578 Grand Total 31,752,192 114,307,891 EN4 Indirect energy consumption by primary source. The total amount of indirect energy used by DuPont in 2011 was approximately 12.3 million Megawatthours (MWh) or 44.3 Gigajoules. The increase in comparison to 2010 is attributable primarily to the acquisition of Danisco. 30 Energy Type MWh Gigajoules Electricity 7,444,653 26,800,750 Chilled Water 971 3,495 DP:DPO (Heat Transfer Fluid) 23,739 85,460 Steam 4,848,142 17,453,310 Grand Total 12,317,504 44,343,014 EN5 Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency improvements Behavioral Change: The Corporate Headquarters Energy Conservation Program entails efforts to conserve energy and off-set rising energy prices for Wilmington area DuPont buildings and facilities. These voluntary activities resulted in primarily Scope 2 emission reductions and are ongoing. This summary of actions was sent to all Wilmington area employees and energy efficiency reminder cards were distributed and posted in area offices. Below are some of the initiatives that comprised the program. • Peak Savings – Decrease electrical consumption when you receive site notices of a high-priced electricity day or time period. During peak periods, electricity prices can increase many times greater than the normal price. • Reduce HVAC loads – close blinds on sunny side of building in summer • Reduce lighting loads – turn off lights whenever you leave your office or work area • Turn off equipment when not in use (e.g., computers, printers, etc.) • Report Problems with exterior doors, temperature control, other energy inefficiencies Investment required was minimal, involving people's time to coordinate program and printing and distribution of reminder cards. EN6 Initiatives to provide energy-efficient or renewable energy based products and services, and reductions in energy requirements as a result of these initiatives. One of DuPont’s corporate sustainability goals sets a challenge to, by 2015, grow our annual revenues by at least $2 billion from products that create energy efficiency and/or significant greenhouse gas emissions reductions for our customers. We estimate these products will contribute at least 40 million metric tons of additional CO2 equivalent reductions by our customers and consumers. This goal was launched in 2006, and as of 2011, we had reached $1.9 billion in annual revenue from products that reduce greenhouse gas emissions. These products in the marketplace resulted in cumulative greenhouse gas emissions of nearly 16 million metric tons of carbon dioxide equivalents. DuPont products and technologies are diverse and enable avoided GHG emissions for our customers in a number of different sectors and applications (e.g. renewable materials, buildings and construction, alternative energy, transportation, and agriculture). An internal team from sustainability and engineering (with expertise in life cycle analysis) is tasked with identifying those products with use-phase (scope 3) GHG benefits for our customers and tracking annual revenue and associate GHG emissions avoided. The specific methodology, assumptions, emission factors, and GWPs vary from product to product, as individual analyses are done for each product by final end-use included in our reporting on this goal. The following are examples of products that enable avoided GHG emissions by others in our value chain. 31 Photovoltaics: DuPont Photovoltaic Solutions represents the broadest portfolio in the solar energy industry, with more than 10 products critical to photovoltaic production. DuPont materials and technology solutions are designed to help increase the efficiency and lifetime of crystalline silicon and thin film photovoltaic solar modules, while reducing total systems cost and enabling the photovoltaic industry to reach grid parity faster. The business has set a goal to exceed $2 billion in sales by 2014. We continue to invest in both capacity expansions to support the explosive industry growth and the development of new innovative technologies to address different applications within the industry. For more information visit: http://www.dupont.com/photovoltaics Biofuels: We are developing a portfolio of biofuels solutions to help meet global transportation energy needs. Biobutanol and cellulosic ethanol are two advanced biofuels technologies that will diversify the transportation energy sector and reduce reliance on petroleum. For more information, visit: http://www2.dupont.com/Sustainability/en_US/Marketplace/Transportation/biofuels.html Fuel Cells: Our objective is to be the leading supplier of Proton Exchange Fuel Cell Membranes into fuel cell systems that power automobiles, electronics, and residences. DuPont invented, and continues to advance, Nafion® membranes and dispersions, which provide durability, performance, and lower cost. For more information, visit: http://www2.dupont.com/Fuel_Cells/en_US Wind Energy: By 2020, experts predict that wind will generate about 12 percent of world electricity needs, but the reliability of generating equipment is essential to the success of the rapidly growing wind power industry. DuPont protects wind turbines by encapsulating the key components of the generator that protect them from the extreme heat inherent in the generation of electricity. Products range from DuPont™ Kevlar® mechanical paper, which reduces weight and improves the structural rigidity of wind turbines to DuPont Electrical Insulation Systems. For more information, visit http://www2.dupont.com/Energy_Sources/en_GB/offering/wind/wind_home.html Vehicle Fuel Efficiency: High performance DuPont engineering resins make possible replacement of metal parts and components, contributing to weight reduction, fuel savings and CO2 emission reductions. In a life cycle analysis of the use of virgin glass reinforced nylon in place of secondary aluminum for an engine component of the Ford F250 truck, it was found that lighter weight in vehicle use far offset energy consumption in manufacturing. During a 10 year lifetime of 100,000 trucks included in the analysis, a 77 billion BTU net energy savings was achieved and 11 million pounds of CO2 emissions were eliminated. DuPont materials help improve automotive efficiency and get more power to the wheel by reducing friction, especially in driveline systems. Innovative Seed Products: Pioneer Hi-Bred is aggressively developing corn hybrids that exhibit enhanced efficiency in nitrogen use, that require reduced quantities of nitrogen, by up to 30 percent, while maintaining overall yield. Decreasing the amount of nitrogen needed presents the opportunity for farmers to reduce their input cost per bushel of corn produced, while reducing the environmental impact of nitrogen fertilizer production, application and use. 32 EN8 Total water withdrawals by source. Our 2015 Footprint Goal is to reduce water consumption by at least 30 percent at global sites that are located where the renewable freshwater supply is either scarce or stressed as determined by the United Nations analysis of river basins globally. For all other sites, we will hold water consumption flat on an absolute basis through the year 2015, offsetting any increased demand from production volume growth through conservation, reuse and recycle practices. We have reduced our consumption by 3 percent at sites in water scarce or stressed locations and 14 percent at all sites. Water Consumption (millions cubic meters) Baseline 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Total 152.7 145.3 146.1 151.2 149.7 145.4 133.3 130.7 All Sites Groundwater N/A 61.1 69.2 69.4 69.0 70.8 73.1 54.9 56.9 Potable Water N/A 43.3 37.7 37.4 41.0 39.1 35.2 36.8 37.2 Surface Water N/A 48.4 38.4 39.3 41.2 39.8 37.2 41.7 36.7 Sites in Water Total 23.3 22.0 21.3 21.5 22.6 21.6 20.4 21.0 22.7 Stressed 5.7 5.7 5.2 5.1 5.0 4.3 4.6 4.6 4.4 Groundwater or Scarce Locations Potable Water 8.1 6.9 7.1 7.4 8.9 8.8 7.3 8.2 7.6 Surface Water 9.5 9.5 9.0 9.0 8.7 8.5 8.6 8.1 10.7 EN9 Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of water. DuPont has assessed consumption at our global sites using the definitions recognized by the United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP) and using the World Business Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD) Global Water Tool. DuPont’s withdrawals do not significantly affect any water sources because of the following.  None of the withdrawals account for an average of 5 percent or more of the annual average volume of a given water body.  None of the water bodies from which DuPont sires withdraw are recognized by professionals to be particularly sensitive due to their relative size, function, or status as a rare, threatened, or endangered system (or to their support of a particular endangered specifies of plant or animal). EN10 Percentage and total volume of water recycled and reused. Although a number of sites reuse and/or recycle water, currently, recycle or reuse water usage data are not collected throughout the company. DuPont has set publicly stated water conservation goals based on reducing water consumption at sites in locations having annual renewable water supply per capita identified as “scarce” by definitions recognized by the UNEP (determined from the WBCSD Water Tool), and holding water consumption flat on an absolute basis in other locations. DuPont does not impose on the sites requirements regarding the method for attaining these goals; rather, businesses and their sites 33 develop their own plans for attainment. Therefore, DuPont does not require sites to report on internal use of water; but must report metrics on water withdrawals (by type) and water consumption (by type). A number of manufacturing sites have accomplished substantial reductions in water consumption and/or withdrawals in recent years. Two examples are:  Uentrop, Germany site has reduced its annual consumption of source water from the municipal drinking water system from approximately 850,000 m3 to 300,000 m3 by recycling treated wastewater as process and boiler feedwater makeup.  Starke, Florida site has reduced its annual consumption of groundwater from approximately 4.5 million m3 to 0.8 million m3 by recycling clean effluent water for process use in lieu of fresh water and upgrading its water distribution system to eliminate unintentional losses and improve use efficiency. EN12 Description of significant impacts of activities, products, and services on biodiversity in protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas. We are not aware of significant impacts on biodiversity in 2011. Also, the water and runoff discharges from DuPont sites do not significantly affect any habitats because of the following:  None of the discharges account for an average of 5 percent or more of the annual average volume of a given water body.  None of the discharges are known to have or are highly likely to have significant impacts on the water body and associated habitats. All sites that discharge water do so under permits developed by national or state authorities that specifically consider the potential for water quality impacts including habitat damage. (Note: Some sites discharge their water to public or private multi-client treatment works rather than to water bodies.) DuPont performs environmental assessments (which are generally required by national or state agencies) when operations are sited.  None of the discharges are to water bodies that are recognized by professionals to be particularly sensitive due to their relative size, function, or status as a rare, threatened, or endangered system (or to their support of a particular endangered specifies of plant or animal). EN13 Habitats protected or restored. Currently, 16 DuPont sites around the globe have been certified by the Wildlife Habitat Council, a Maryland, U.S. based non-profit organization dedicated to increasing the quality and amount of wildlife habitat on corporate, private and public lands. The following five DuPont sites received international recognition at the Wildlife Habitat Council’s (WHC) 20th Annual Symposium in November 2008 for their contributions to wildlife habitat conservation.  Cooper River Plant Moncks Corner, South Carolina  DeLisle Plant – Pass Christian, Mississippi  Fort Madison Plant Fort Madison, Iowa  Parlin Plant – Parlin, New Jersey  Washington Works Plant Washington, West Virginia In addition, DuPont developed a locally based initiative called Clear into the Future that works with the community within the Delaware Estuary watershed in the U.S. to preserve and enhance the beauty and integrity for generations to come (www.clearintothefuture.com). Grants have been provided to 34 numerous organizations including the National Fish and Wildlife Foundation to sustain and promote fish, wildlife, and plant resources throughout the watershed and The Nature Conservancy to preserve and enhance important habitats in the state of Delaware. EN14 Strategies, current actions, and future plans for managing impacts on biodiversity. Environmental stewardship is a core value for DuPont. We will continue our efforts to conserve and protect natural resources in our communities in collaboration with partners such as the Wildlife Habitat Council and The Nature Conservancy. We are also working with stakeholders and organizations such as the World Business Council for Sustainable Development and the Business for Social Responsibility to enhance our understanding of ecosystem services. EN16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight. For the overall totals, from 1990 to 2003, we reduced emissions by 72 percent, which includes our Invista business and 60 percent excluding Invista. Invista assets were divested in 2004. Direct greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions, also known as Scope 1 GHG emissions under the WRI/WBCSD Greenhouse Gas Protocol, are emissions from sources that are owned or controlled by DuPont. In 2011 the gross DuPont Scope 1 GHG emissions were 13,170,400 metric tonnes. While we report our gross Scope 1 emissions as required under various reporting schemes, we set our goals based on those emissions over which we truly have control, thereby excluding emissions due to energy generated for third parties, such as non-DuPont tenants of adjacent facilities. On this basis our net Scope 1 GHG emissions were 11,881,200 metric tonnes. Indirect GHG emissions, also known as Scope 2 GHG emissions under the WRI/WBCSD Greenhouse Gas Protocol, are emissions from sources as a consequence of DuPont energy needs but are not owned or controlled by DuPont (e.g., purchased electricity, steam, heat and chilled water). In 2011 the gross DuPont Scope 2 GHG emissions were 5,067,900 metric tonnes. While we report our gross Scope 2 emissions as required under various reporting schemes, we set our goals taking into account GHG offsets due to the purchase of renewable electricity. On this basis our net Scope 2 GHG emissions were 4,900,500 metric tonnes. Including all acquisitions and removing all divestitures from our emissions reporting over the period 2004-2011, our total Scope 1 + Scope 2 emissions have been reduced by 10 percent. DuPont Scope 1 & 2 Net Greenhouse Gas Emissions by Year, metric tons 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 18,583,900 16,079,100 15,930,300 17,424,600 14,647,500 13,784,100 15,749,100 16,781,700 EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and reductions achieved. 2015 Footprint Sustainability Goals Since the early 1990s when DuPont began taking action to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, the company has achieved major global reductions in emissions. In 1994, DuPont established our first greenhouse gas emissions goal and committed to reduce 40 percent from our 1990 base. After meeting 35 that goal, in 1999 DuPont established a new goal to reduce our greenhouse gas emissions by 65 percent from a 1990 base. By the end of 2003 we had reduced our greenhouse gas emissions by 72 percent. Our current goal is to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 15 percent by 2015 from an updated base year of 2004. As of 2011, we have reduced by 8.2 percent since 2004. 2015 Market-Facing Sustainability Goals In October 2006, DuPont announced our market-facing goals. These goals address all stages of product development, from R&D efforts through marketing and sales. We have a goal that by 2015, we will grow our annual revenues by at least $2 billion from products that create energy efficiency and/or significantly reduce greenhouse gas emissions. We estimate these products will contribute at least 40 million tonnes of additional CO2 equivalent reductions by our customers and consumers. As of 2011, the annual revenue from those products reached $1.9 billion. 2020 Energy Goal Our corporate energy efficiency strategy is managed through our Bold Energy Plan. Our new objective is to reduce non-renewable energy use by 10 percent per price adjusted dollar revenue by 2020 compared to a baseline of 2010. We have set a milestone of 3 percent reduction by 2015. We have an online database that tracks plant performance toward annual energy targets. Progress is measured by the energy savings achieved from individual improvement projects at each plant. The database currently tracks over 1,000 completed, in progress, and proposed projects, some of which require capital investment. Availability of capital for energy efficiency improvement projects is critical setting public goals alone will not drive improvement unless you have adequate financial and personnel resources available to implement improvements. For example, in 2007 DuPont created an Energy Capital Fund from which we invested $60 million in energy projects that will reduce CO2 emissions and energy use by 6 percent, and deliver $170 million in projected 10-year net present value at an aggregated 60 percent IRR. Plant Site Managers have responsibility for all aspects of site operations and set priorities for the workforce. Their performance is judged by annual metrics (e.g. safety, environment, fixed costs, etc). Energy is a new metric being added to the Site Manager report card, providing additional incentive and individual accountability for our success in meeting annual energy savings targets. With over 100 plants with annual energy targets, Site Energy Champions are an essential part of implementing the Bold Energy Plan. Site Energy Champions have monthly conference calls and bi-annual corporate energy conferences where they can share best practices and identify opportunities to rapidly replicate successful projects. Sustainable Growth Excellence Awards Each year since 1990, DuPont has held an award program to recognize the most significant employee accomplishments. The Sustainable Growth Excellence Awards seek to honor those teams and individuals who have made significant contributions (some related to energy efficiency and/or climate change) toward DuPont implementing our mission and the Sustainability Goals. Climate Change To encourage environmentally effective and economically sustainable policy actions, DuPont is actively engaging with policymakers and other business and NGO stakeholders from around the world to develop constructive public policies to address global climate change. DuPont's belief in the importance of taking prompt, coordinated, and strong action to address climate change is why we actively participate in a number of stakeholder initiatives around the globe and why we were a founding member of the U.S. Climate Action Partnership (USCAP). 36 The business community has a critical role to play in developing and bringing to market the technologies and solutions that will make possible the transition to a low-carbon economy. This transition will provide new markets for innovative companies to prosper. Beyond our commitment to reduce our own environmental footprint we have set goals related to products that help others reduce their greenhouse gas emissions. These include both research and development investment targets and product revenue goals. These goals tie business growth to the development of safer, cleaner, and more efficient products for global markets. DuPont is dedicated to using our science to bring these innovative products and solutions to market. We are applying our science to develop technologies and materials that will help enable energy generation, improve efficiency, and reduce greenhouse gas emissions across value chains in a wide range of sectors. EN20 NOx, SOx, and other significant air emissions by type and weight. NOx and SOx emissions are calculated using site-specific data. NOx Emissions (metric tons): From 1995 to 2003, DuPont reduced nitrogen oxides (NOx) by approximately 57 percent, which included the Invista business. After divesting Invista, from 2004 to 2009, the NOx emissions were reduced by an additional 25 percent. From 2008 to 2011, the reduction was approximately 8 percent. 2008 2009 2010 2011 8,520 7,340 8,220 7,880 SOx Emissions (metric tons): From 1995 to 2003, DuPont reduced sulfur oxides (SOx) by approximately 37 percent, which included the Invista business. After divesting Invista, from 2004 to 2009, the SOx emissions were reduced by an additional 57 percent. From 2008 to 2011, the reduction was approximately 59 percent. 2008 2009 2010 2011 23,900 13,010 10,620 9,900 The volatile organic compounds (VOCs) emissions have been fairly steady while we have substantially reduced air carcinogens. VOC Emissions (metric tons): 2008 2009 2010 2011 8,490 8,880 9,010 8,060 Air Carcinogen Emissions (pounds): 2008 2009 2010 2011 870,000 740,000 900,000 780,000 37 EN21 Total water discharge by quality and destination. We do not track total water discharge, but the company began tracking Chemical Oxygen Demand (COD) as of FY2011. No goal was set for 2011. Note that the COD reported in the table includes both discharges directly to surface water and discharges to off-site treatment systems. The breakdown in 2011 was: COD discharge to surface water: 22,240 metric tonnes COD discharge to off-site treatment: 128,250 metric tonnes EN22 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method. Hazardous Waste Non-hazardous wastes are not aggregated at a corporate level. Below are the hazardous waste data. These data do not include the water weight. From 1990, DuPont reduced global hazardous waste by approximately 60 percent. Global Hazardous Waste (Millions of Pounds) 1990 1995 2000 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Europe 95 25 40.7 72.9 53.9 54 44.8 38.9 41.5 32.5 34.7 39.8 Latin 205 205 206 2.9 10 6.1 6.5 6.6 5.9 5.7 7.8 4.0 America Asia/Pacific 6.8 1.1 6.3 4.5 3.3 3.7 4.1 6.5 7.6 7.3 7.3 11.7 U.S. & 1,929 1,539 916 962 1,045 847 993 938 699 774 796 837.9 Canada Total, All 2,236 1,770 1,169 1,042 1,112 911 1,048 990 754 819 845 893.5 Regions Note: All years adjusted to reflect Invista divestiture. 2011 reflects Danisco acquisition. All values exclude the weight of water in the waste. Toxics Release Inventory From 1991 to 2004, DuPont reduced total U.S. Toxics Release Inventory (TRI) waste generated by 49 percent. From 2004 to 2010, we further reduced by 25 percent. Additionally, from 2004 to 2011, we reduced deep well disposal by 35 percent; releases to air, water, and land by 14 percent; and off-site transfers by 10 percent. With DuPont's acquisition of Danisco in 2011, total waste generated and total release and transfers increased from 2010 to 2011. Compared to 2004, there is still an overall reduction of 4 percent in total waste generated and 11 percent in total release and transfers. 38 U.S. Toxics Release Inventory Waste and Emissions (Millions of Pounds) 1987 1991 2000 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Total Waste -890 598 452 456 447 579 386 315 341 433 as Generated Deepwell Disposal of 237 187 37.7 26.4 23.8 23.1 18.6 17.2 20.0 22.8 17.3 Hazardous Waste Releases to Air, Water 71 57 38.4 34.2 35.0 33.7 31.4 28.0 26.3 30.5 29.6 and Land Offsite 53.5 60.3 64.5 64.3 60.8 56.7 47.9 53.2 54.5 Transfers Releases & 91.8 94.5 99.3 98.0 92.2 84.7 74.1 83.7 84.0 Transfers Note: Data as reported to the U.S. EPA. Total waste as generated first reported in 1991. 2004 data reflects Invista separation. 2011 data reflects Danisco acquisition. EN23 Total number and volume of significant spills. The following table provides an overview of significant SHE incidents which are defined as a significant environmental, process, fire or transportation incident. Incidents that meet definitions for more than one type are counted as single Major SHE Incidents. Significant Environmental, Process, and Transportation Incidents 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Environmental 0 0 4 0 0 2 1 Transportation 0 0 1 0 0 0 3 Process 2 1 2 0 1 2 3 Fire 1 1 0 0 0 1 1 Major SHE Incidents 3 1 6 0 1 3 3 EN25 Identity, size, protected status, and biodiversity value of water bodies and related habitats significantly affected by the reporting organization’s discharges of water and runoff. Please refer to EN12 above. EN26 Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of products and services, and extent of impact mitigation. 39 DuPont has programs such as Product Stewardship, Life Cycle Assessments, and our commitment for the Registration, Evaluation, Authorization and Restriction of Chemicals (REACH). DuPont has also informed members of the U.S. Senate Committee on Environment and Public Works that the U.S. Congress should modernize the Toxic Substances Control Act (TSCA) to strengthen market and public confidence in the U.S. chemical management process. DuPont is working collaboratively with non-government organizations, federal legislators, regulators and trade associations, including the American Chemistry Council, on a modernization plan that assures the safe use of chemicals, provides transparency for the public and fosters ongoing innovation by industry. As part of our comprehensive product stewardship management system, all new and existing products and services are required to have a product stewardship review rescheduled, conducted and documented prior to commercialization and on a periodic frequency (e.g. every 2, 3, or 4 years) commensurate with risk. Please refer to the Product Stewardship section for more details. The DuPont 2015 Sustainability Goals are the expression of a life-cycle-thinking business concept integrating all of our operations, from research and development to manufacturing to marketing. Successful new products provide superior functionality and favorable sustainability attributes to customers and stakeholders, such as reduced energy consumption and greenhouse gas emissions. DuPont practitioners use Life Cycle Assessments (LCAs) to identify areas of concern and improvement opportunities in the early development stages. Quantified information regarding the extent to which environmental impacts of products and services have been mitigated can be found in the 2012 Sustainability Progress Report. EN30 Total environmental protection expenditures and investments by type. As a result of its operations, the company incurs costs for pollution abatement activities including waste collection and disposal, installation and maintenance of air pollution controls and wastewater treatment, emissions testing and monitoring, and obtaining permits. The company also incurs costs related to environmental related research and development activities including environmental field and treatment studies as well as toxicity and degradation testing to evaluate the environmental impact of products and raw materials. Related to these activities, the company incurred environmental operating costs of $587 million, $551 million, and $528 million in 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. In 2011, DuPont spent approximately $85 million on environmental capital projects either required by law or necessary to meet the company’s internal environmental goals. DuPont accrues for remediation activities when it is probable that a liability has been incurred and a reasonable estimate of the liability can be made. The company has recorded a liability of $416 million on the Consolidated Balance Sheet as of December 31, 2011; these accrued liabilities exclude claims against third parties and are not discounted. 40 Labor and Human Rights Summary Recognizing that our people are our greatest resource, DuPont has earned international recognition for the series of race and gender awareness programs, and for our management of an ethnically and geographically diverse workforce. Our Core Values are the underpinnings of our corporate culture and are expected of all of us without exception:  Safety and Health  Environmental Stewardship  Highest Ethical Behavior  Respect for People It is our intention to create an environment where people can use all of their capabilities to support our business. Therefore, we encourage our employees to balance their work and personal responsibilities. We offer programs such as Family Leave, Flexible Work Practices, Adoption Assistance, and others. Our Practices Code of Conduct: We have a Code of Conduct which consolidates all Company policies with respect to business ethics and conflicts of interest for DuPont and our subsidiaries, affiliated companies, and joint venture arrangements in which we have a majority interest or operating responsibility. These policies require that each employee conduct the Company’s business with integrity, in compliance with applicable laws, and in a manner that excludes consideration of personal advantage. Any allegations or breaches of the Code of Conduct are investigated promptly and disciplinary actions around confirmed violations are taken. Compliance Officers, HR, Legal and Finance leaders serve as resources and focal points for employees to answer questions on code of conduct. The company maintains an employee ethics hotline for the reporting of suspected misconduct consistent with applicable laws. Breaches to our ethics code are written up and cascaded through the organization globally so that all employees can see the issues, the consequences of not being in compliance with our Business Conduct Policy, and the lessons learned from the breach. We have conducted an annual Business Ethics and Compliance Survey with employees worldwide including employees who are in majority-owned businesses or for which DuPont has operating responsibility. We also have an internal system called LegalEagle which provides valuable training tools for employees. Human Rights: DuPont has a strong commitment to the protection and advancement of human rights wherever we operate. Our Human Rights Policy is based on our core values of Safety and Health, Environmental Stewardship, Ethical Behavior, and Respect for People. We also endorse the 10 Principles in the UN Global Compact. 41 Equal Employment: DuPont is an equal opportunity employer. It is our policy not to discriminate against any employee or applicant for employment because of age, race, religion, color, sex, disability, national origin, ancestry, marital status, sexual orientation, or veteran status. Harassment of any type is not tolerated. Respect is the Recognition of Value Respect for People is of one our core values. It means inspiring participation, ensuring fairness and dignity, and creating an atmosphere of openness, engagement, active listening and trust. It is about embracing and appreciating people of their unique background, thinking, experience, knowledge, skills, needs and abilities. In 2010 we launched a systemic process to advance respect for people as a core value, much as we have with other core values such as safety and ethics. We established Respect for People Central,” a global team that converged on a standard definition, vision, and behaviors consistent with a respectful work environment. In 2011 our goals include a global roll-out of training modules to build competency in the organization and visible communications and tools to inspire employees around the work. Career Training and Development Learning is a continual process in DuPont. A formal process known as Career Development Planning, helps our employees plan their development to meet both business and personal goals. DuPont recognizes the effectiveness of experiential learning and values on-the-job training as a primary means of development. We have collaborations with many leading universities, research institutions, companies, and industry & professional organizations to provide developmental experiences. Formal training is another important avenue for gaining new skills. Each business within the company has ongoing training programs that are designed specifically to maximize the performance of its employees in meeting business objectives. Other development opportunities include training sessions and seminars presented by industry or professional organizations. DuPont also offers a program that provides financial assistance to employees pursuing courses at academic institutions. 42 Labor Performance Indicators LA1 Total workforce by employment type, employment contract, and region, broken down by gender. The total global workforce is approximately 72,530 as of December 31, 2011. The US workforce (excluding Puerto Rico) is 99.5 percent full-time and 0.5 percent part-time. For a detailed breakdown per geographic region: Geographic Region Number of Employees % Male % Female United States 35370 74 26 Latin America 7200 65 35 Canada 1370 69 31 Europe / Middle East / Africa 17460 78 22 Asia Pacific 11130 72 28 Total 72530 72 28 LA2 Total number and rate of employee turnover by age group, gender and region. The US workforce (excluding Puerto Rico) as of January 1, 2012 had a turnover rate of 5.1 percent. The 2011 Global Turnover was 6.3 percent. For regions: • North America = 5.1% • EMEA = 6.1% • Asia Pacific = 10.2% • Latin America = 7.3% Regional data are not aggregated by gender or age group. LA3 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or part-time employees, by major operations. The benefits offered in each country are dependant on local market practices, which in turn are influenced by elements including state benefit offerings, income and social programs. Even though the offering in each country is different, the benefits package typically includes the following for full-time and part-time employees: • Income protection (disability protection): Contributions to individual income protection insurance, or participation in company insurance plan. • Medical: Contribution to individual medical insurance, or participation in company medical insurance plan. 43 • Accident: Contribution to individual accident insurance, or participation in company insurance plan. • Retirement: Retirement savings plan contributions or participation in a company defined benefit pension plan. • Global worklife and wellness support programs:  Employee Assistance Program – The Company provides up to (6) free counseling sessions per year to all employees.  Emergency Travel Health Care Assistance – The Company provides a free resource to assist employees in finding quality emergency care and emergency medical transportation while traveling on business. For the United States Region: 1. The following benefits are provided to full-time employees and part-time employees scheduled to work at least 20 hours/week: a. Medical Coverage – The Company pays 70 percent of the total cost for employees. b. Dental Coverage – The Company provides dental coverage free to employees ($0 premium). c. Vision Coverage – The Company offers a vision plan at group rates to employees. d. Flexible Spending accounts e. Employee Life Insurance – The Company provides basic life insurance equal to 1x pay to employees. Supplemental employee life insurance up to 7x pay may be purchased by employees at full cost. f. Dependent Life Insurance – Available for employees to purchase at full cost. g. Accidental Death Insurance – The Company provides employees with accidental death insurance equal to 1x pay. Supplemental accidental death insurance for the employee, spouse, or children may be purchased by employees. h. Vacation Buying – Employees may purchase up to one week of vacation, in addition to their Company-paid time off. 2. The following benefits are provided to both full-time and part-time employees, without regard to the number of hours worked: a. Retirement Savings 401(k) Plan: The Company contributes 3 percent of pay into the employees’ Retirement Savings Plans. The Company also provides a $1-to-$1 matching contribution of up to 6 percent of pay, for a total Company contribution of up to 9 percent of pay. b. Disability (Short-Term and Long-Term) Coverage – The Company provides free disability coverage to all employees. The DuPont short-term disability coverage provides 100 percent pay continuation for an employee while they are absent from work due to an illness or injury for up to six months. The DuPont long-term disability coverage ensures that an employee who is totally and permanently disabled receives 60 percent of pay for life, when combined with social security disability benefits, a DuPont pension, and income benefits from other sources. c. Occupational Injury, Illness or Disease Coverage – Termed the “Special Benefits Plan”, DuPont provides benefits which supplement Workers’ Compensation for up to six months, ensuring that the employee continues to receive their normal pay. d. Paid Adoption Leave and Adoption Expense Assistance– DuPont provides employees with four weeks of paid time off following the adoption of a child and reimburses up to $5,000 of the cost of each adoption. 44 e. Dependent Care Expense Coverage when Traveling for Work – DuPont pays child care expenses when the employee is required to travel overnight for work. f. Severance Benefits – The DuPont Career Transition Program provides between two and twelve months’ pay to employees whose DuPont employment is terminated due to lack of work. g. Family Leave – The DuPont Family Leave policy exceeds federal FMLA standards, providing employees the opportunity to tax up to six months off work to meet changing family responsibilities and respond to different life events, including maternity, paternity, adoption, or placement of a foster child, or to deal with the serious illness of a parent, spouse or child. h. Guidance Resources – The Company provides help to manage work/life responsibilities with practical advice, useful materials and local referrals. One can obtain personalized and confidential consultation with experienced counselors on topics such as parenting, education planning, caring for older relatives, and career planning. 3. Employees hired prior to January 1, 2007 also receive the following benefits to full-time employees and part-time employees scheduled to work at least 20 hours/week: a. Pension Plan – A traditional, defined benefit pension is available. b. Retiree Medical and Dental Coverage – All full-time and part-time employees who qualify to receive a pension benefit are covered. The Company contribution towards retiree medical and dental coverage is prorated based on the years of service used in calculating the pension benefit. c. Retiree Life Insurance – All full-time and part-time employees who qualify to receive a pension benefit also receive retiree life insurance from the Company. LA4 Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements. As of April 2012, for the United States employees only, 22.6 percent of nonexempt workforce was covered. Data are not available outside of the United States. LA5 Minimum notice period(s) regarding significant operational changes, including whether it is specified in collective agreements. Generally, for minimum notice period related to significant operational changes is 60 days, although a few contracts specifically state periods ranging from 20 days’ notice (for work & safety rule changes), 14 days’ notice (for rules & regulation changes), and 12 months/1 year notice (for benefit & retirement plan changes). 45 LA7 Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and total number of workrelated fatalities by region. Occupational Health and Safety Data 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Total Recordable Injuries and Illnesses* DuPont 1.17 0.99 0.78 0.64 0.66 0.70 0.6 Chemical Industry Average 3.2 2.9 3.1 2.7 2.3 NA NA Manufacturing Industry 6.3 6 5.6 5 NA Average 4.3 NA DuPont Contractor 0.9 0.7 0.8 0.7 0.7 0.7 0.6 Lost Workday Cases* DuPont 0.3 0.21 0.15 0.15 0.14 0.15 0.10 Chemical Industry Average 0.8 0.8 0.8 0.8 0.6 NA NA Manufacturing Industry 1.5 1.4 1.3 1.2 1 NA NA Average DuPont Contractor 0.12 0.09 0.12 0.07 0.06 0.09 0.08 Off-Job Injuries DuPont 294(11) 261(7) 221(9) 177(5) 210(7) 173(9) 185(8) Fatalities DuPont 3 1 0 1 0 2 1 DuPont Contractor 1 0 2 1 1 2 0 *Recordable Injuries per 200,000 hours worked Numbers in ( ) = fatalities NA = not available The data for absenteeism are not available. LA8 Education, training, counseling, prevention, and risk-control programs in place to assist workforce members, their families, or community members regarding serious diseases. The following assistance programs are provided: • Employee Assistance and Worklife Program – Employee Assistance provides support to employees and their family members to address an array of personal life issues. Worklife programs address financial, legal, family, elder care issues work conflict and more. 46 • New employees receive medical evaluations to assure a good match between job demands and employee capabilities. Following the onset of a health issue, accommodation solutions to support continued presence at work are developed. When employees are absent due to an illness or injury, Company medical professionals counsel the employee, assist them in effectively using medical care, coordinate with community health care providers, and perform return to work examinations to assure a safe and timely reengagement in work. • Company Medical Department intranet sites with links to in-Company medical support available throughout the world. • Contact information to several on-line resources such as the American Diabetic Association, American Heart Association, WebMD, and Mayo Health Oasis. • Expatriate family support to employees and families preparing for an international assignment, support during their assignment, assistance during repatriation. • Risk Control activities and practices: hazard communication, provide and train in the use of personal protective equipment (PPE), engineering controls, material selection (for the least toxic alternative), and administrative controls. Health examinations are performed to verify the protection afforded by the above practices. • Travel medicine preparation for international business travel including immunizations, preventive medications, counseling on behaviors to remain healthy, indications for when to seek medical care, orientation as to arrangements to provide medical response by in-Company medical departments and external arrangements. • Pandemic preparedness Corporation level and locally applied practices to protect the health of employees and families from emerging infectious threats and to support business continuity. These plans were utilized to great advantage in March 2011 in Japan following the earthquakes, tsunami, and radiation releases (e.g. International SOS global medical assistance arrangements). • Present group health education to employees in Core Values Contacts (on Safety and Health), health material for use in work-group Safety Meetings. Health fairs arranged on occasion. Improved health is considered a lever to reduce safety risk both on and off the job. • Company health professionals educate employees and family members in the recommended use of scientifically-grounded and medically approved clinical preventive services. o Targeted plans such as for Human Immunodeficiency Virus (HIV). Our company policy, which includes contact information for resources and first aid measures, is:  An individual with HIV/Aids disease shall be treated like an employee with any other illness.  HIV testing shall not be done at pre-placement (pre-employment) unless it is a national legislative requirement to so test OR if the employee will work as a Health Care Professional in which case testing shall only be done if it is legally permissible. 47  Potential employees who are HIV positive shall not be excluded from employment at preplacement (pre-employment) examinations if otherwise fit for the job.  For existing employees if able to work, assignments are provided in accord with normal site procedures and no special precautions are routinely indicated. If unable to work employees should be handled as for any other non-occupational disability.  The site should work towards developing and implementing a workplace HIV/AIDS programme aimed at preventing new infections, providing care and support for employees who are infected or affected, and managing the impact of the epidemic in the organization.  The nature and extent of a workplace programme is guided by the needs and capacity of each individual workplace. The workplace programme attempts to address the following in cooperation with the sectoral, local, provincial and national initiatives. • DuPont health promotion initiatives would include: o hold regular HIV/AIDS awareness programmes; o encourage voluntary testing; o conduct education, training and prevention on HIV/AIDS including condom use; o encourage health seeking behavior for Sexually Transmitted Diseases; o enforce the use of universal infection control measures; o create an environment that is conducive to openness, disclosure and acceptance amongst all staff; o establish a wellness programme for all employees including those affected by HIV/AIDS; o provide access to counseling and other forms of social support for people affected by HIV/AIDS; o maximize the performance of affected employees through reasonable accommodation, such as investigations into alternative sick leave allocation; o develop strategies to address direct and indirect costs associated with HIV/AIDS in the workplace, as outlined under local legislation; o regularly monitor, evaluate and review the programme. LA11 Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that support the continued employability of employees and assist them in managing career endings. Learning is a continual process in DuPont and there are opportunities provided to employees to enhance professional and personal skills. A formal career development process helps employees and their supervisors in planning development to meet both business and personal goals. DuPont recognizes the effectiveness of experiential learning and values on-the-job training as a primary means of development. The company's collaboration with many leading universities, research institutions, companies, and industry & professional organizations also often present unique developmental experiences. 48 Formal training is another important avenue for gaining new skills. Each business within the company has ongoing training programs that are designed specifically to maximize the performance of its employees in meeting business objectives. DuPont taps on the expertise of external training providers and the company's own functional experts to offer a wide range of courses in areas such as Leadership & Management, Sales & Marketing, Finance, Manufacturing, Human Resources, Information Technology, Personal Skills, and Safety & Health. There are many thousands of courses available to employees via the electronic learning management systems available at DuPont. Other development opportunities include training sessions and seminars presented by industry or professional organizations. DuPont also offers a program that provides financial assistance to employees pursuing courses at academic institutions. It is the intent of DuPont to make any separations required by business situations as supportive as possible of both employee and family needs. DuPont provides benefits and assistance to employees who are terminated for lack of work. DuPont offers a career transition program to provide employees with financial assistance as well as support for interview skills, resume preparation, job search strategies, and support with change management. Other benefits include medical and dental coverage, life insurance, tuition assistance and, for eligible employees, pension. LA12 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews. Performance Partnership is the process for managing, coaching, developing, assessing and rewarding employee performance. It consists of ongoing formal and informal coaching. All exempt employees globally participate in the Performance Partnership process, and wage roll/hourly employees participation is based upon the decision of the local organization. The Performance Partnership process is designed to:  Ensure clear objectives linked to business results  Build strong alignment between manager and employee  Integrate competencies into objective setting and development  Conduct frequent and meaningful performance and development discussions  Provide support and coaching for business and personal success  Link Rewards to Performance  At a minimum, all employees are expected to engage in 1) an annual Individual Performance Plan objective session where employees create and the manager approves objectives, competencies and current year development plan; 2) a mid-year review to verify alignment, provide support or upgrade plan; and 3) a year-end review to confirm progress on overall plan. 49 Human Rights Performance Indicators HR5 Operations and significant suppliers identified in which the right to exercise freedom of association or collective bargaining may be violated or at significant risk, and actions taken to support these rights. As of November 2012, none were known to the company. HR6 Operations identified as having significant risk for incidents of child labor, and measures taken to contribute to the elimination of child labor. DuPont is committed to the protection and advancement of human rights wherever we operate. The DuPont Human Rights Policy is based on our core values of Safety and Health, Environmental Stewardship, Ethical Behavior, and Respect for People. This policy operates in conjunction with and is supportive of our Safety, Health and Environmental Commitment, our product stewardship programs, our regulatory compliance program, and our endorsement of the 10 Principles in the UN Global Compact. DuPont will not tolerate the use of illegal or forced child labor in any of its global operations and facilities. We will not tolerate the exploitation of children, their engagement in unacceptably hazardous work, and the physical punishment, abuse, or involuntary servitude of any worker. We expect our suppliers and contractors with whom we do business to uphold the same standards. For purposes of these Principles, we are using the United Nations definition of a “child” as anyone who is less than 16 years of age. DuPont supports temporary workplace internship and apprenticeship education programs for younger persons as well as customary seasonal employment so long as such persons are closely supervised and their morals, safety, health, and compulsory education are not compromised in any way. Additionally, our Pioneer Hi-Bred business is a member of CropLife International, a global federation representing the plant science industry. Pioneer was involved with the preparation of the CropLife Position on Child Labor in the Seed Supply Chain. Pioneer has implemented a child labor prevention program which includes an audit component for the cotton seed operations in India. One of the components is inclusion of a “No Child Labor” clause in our contracts with growers and other third parties. DuPont is extending the effort in our cotton seed operations in India by establishing a Core Values Standards for Supply Chain Contractors. This standard includes steps to prevent child labor, specific direction on migrant labor, field sanitation and other worker rights. This standard also establishes a management structure that will govern the audits and management review of our operations against the standard. This standard is being applied to all of our Pioneer operations globally. Please refer to the DuPont Statement on California Transparency Supply Chains Act for more information on our commitment. 50 HR7 Operations identified as having significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory labor, measures taken to contribute to the elimination of forced or compulsory labor. We have not identified our operations as having significant risks for forced or compulsory labor. DuPont’s position on forced or compulsory labor is reflected in the response for HR6 and can be found in our Human Rights Principles. (See HR 6) HR10 Percentage and total number of operations that have been subject to human rights reviews and/or impact assessments. DuPont has the following policies and processes in place to uphold the protection and advancement of human rights wherever we operate: • Corporate policy on human rights • Human rights governance process (which includes a senior vice president, a steering team, and a leadership team) • Suppliers screenings for human rights • Requirement of adherence to human rights in our contracts • Periodic contract administration on-site assessments • Periodic Safety, Health and Environment audits of contractors the includes a human rights assessment 51 Societal Summary We believe collaborations are needed to address the dynamic needs of the growing world. As the world’s population grows, demand for natural resources is increasing, while availability is decreasing. The world is undergoing transformational change triggered by global population growth and the rising middle class in developing geographies. DuPont is responding to meet the increasing demand for food, decreasing dependence on fossil fuels, protecting lives and the environment and meeting emerging markets’ demand for science-based solutions. Today, thousands of DuPont people are collaborating with stakeholders and partners – including customers, governments and communities – to meet these complex challenges that will define the coming decades. Global Leadership Climate Change DuPont is a leader on climate change. DuPont began taking action to address climate change almost twenty years ago. We have accomplished major global reductions in our own greenhouse gas emissions, and we continue to set ambitious goals for additional emission reductions. We publicly report our corporate emissions data and associated climate risks and opportunities through the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP). DuPont is focused both on reducing our own footprint and on delivering solutions that help our customers conserve and use energy efficiently. We are applying our science to develop technologies and materials that will help enable energy generation, improve efficiency, and reduce greenhouse gas emissions across value chains in a wide range of sectors. UN Global Compact DuPont is a member of the UN Global Compact which is a strategic policy initiative for businesses that are committed to aligning their operations and strategies with ten universally accepted principles in the areas of human rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption. Collaborating with our Communities DuPont has a global presence with each facility leader empowered to work with local community leaders to better understand and support local community sustainability initiatives in accordance with our stated corporate giving philosophy. Please refer to our DuPont Community and Outreach efforts. In the USA and Canada, DuPont works closely with the United Way organization. Activities include corporate and employee giving and paid time off for volunteer activities at United Way agencies. We also have a commitment globally to improve science education focused on both reform as well as classroom activities. The grants to universities extend to more than 200 colleges and universities worldwide, expanding DuPont access to leading-edge research and continuing our investment in the development of a highly skilled workforce and a scientifically literate citizenry. Higher Education Partnerships operate at both the undergraduate and the graduate level, with many initiatives focused on increased participation of underrepresented populations. Our K-12 initiatives have focused on 52 bringing inquiry-based science programs to communities where we operate, to nurture young Americans' interest in science and mathematics professions through national and international competitions, to increase the numbers of underrepresented minorities prepared for careers in science and mathematics, and to safeguard the competence of our teachers of science and mathematics. Government Affairs Our government affairs organization works to understand the corporate direction of DuPont and individual business priorities and then engages in federal, state, and international public policy processes ranging from climate change to chemical management. We are focused on the following primary external activities: Advocacy: Identifying, building and maintaining relationships that are critical to success in the public policy process. Public Policy: Proactively engaging in federal, state and international public policy processes, which include legislative, executive branch and regulatory involvement, as appropriate. Business Collaboration: Partnering with DuPont businesses and select functions to identify, pursue and secure opportunities in the government market spaces. 53 Society Performance Indicators SO5 Public policy positions and participation in public policy development and lobbying. DuPont maintains many policy positions and participates in public policy development ranging from climate change to chemical management. Below are some efforts and for a complete listing, please refer to our position statements. Climate Change DuPont began taking action to address climate change almost 20 years ago. We believe the scientific understanding of climate change is sufficient to compel prompt, effective actions to limit emissions of greenhouse gases. We believe that to be successful these actions will require concerted engagement by the world’s governments, along with technological innovations by businesses, and individual actions by all citizens. We believe any strategy to address climate change must be both environmentally effective and economically sustainable. Policy solutions must be good for the environment, for business, and for people around the world. To encourage environmentally effective and economically sustainable policy actions, DuPont is actively engaging with policymakers and other business and NGO stakeholders from around the world to develop constructive public policies to address global climate change. DuPont’s belief in the importance of taking prompt, coordinated, and strong action to address climate change is why we were a founding member of the U.S. Climate Action Partnership (USCAP). Agricultural Biotechnology Biotechnology holds a great deal of promise to enhance our lives and planet. With a world population expected to reach nine billion by 2050, biotechnology offers new potential for sustainable living, healthy eating and battling diseases while reducing our footprint on the planet. We believe the broad field of biotechnology presents important opportunities that should be explored and developed to identify those safe and commercially viable applications that bring significant benefits to society. These opportunities arise in areas including food, materials, energy generation, polymers, sensors and electronics. Benefits may include lower cost, higher quality products and reduced reliance on fossil fuels along with other environmental benefits. Biodiversity Protection of the world’s biodiversity is an important societal need, as well as a critical requirement for developing new products. As part of our corporate commitment to sustainable growth, DuPont seeks to conserve and protect natural resource biodiversity; consider concerns of local communities in the selection, design, production, and introduction of our products; and publicly advocate positions consistent with this commitment. Bioethics We have developed Bioethics Guiding Principles that guide us operationally and are further confirmation of our commitment to stakeholders as we pursue the opportunities and resulting benefits Biotechnology can offer the world. The Principles reflect independent work by the University of Pennsylvania Bioethics Center, along with direct guidance from the DuPont external Biotechnology Advisory Panel and influence from other diverse, international groups with whom we interact. We are committed to continuous learning and improvement, to address emerging issues and to adjust as needed. 54 SO6 Total value of financial and in-kind contributions to political parties, politicians, and related institutions by country. DuPont sponsors a Political Action Committee (PAC) called the DuPont Good Government Fund (DGGF). The DGGF is managed by the DuPont Government Affairs Advisory Council (GAAC) which has the responsibility to review and approve all DGGF political contributions. GAAC members represent a crosssection of business interests and include several members of the DuPont executive management leadership team. The DGGF activities are authorized by federal law in the United States which allows DuPont to solicit funds from eligible employees for the purpose of providing financial support to political candidates. Both corporate and PAC contributions are made to candidates who have demonstrated a positive concern for issues that are important to the businesses and markets in which the Company operates, and are based on the following criteria, among others:  The candidates demonstrated honesty, integrity, effectiveness, and commitment to good governance;  The candidates’ understanding and support for issues important to DuPont and its employees;  The location of DuPont employees and/or facilities in the candidates’ state or district;  The candidates’ position in leadership or in key committees, or the candidates’ potential for leadership;  The candidates’ financial need and chance of being elected; and  The alignment of the candidates’ voting record with DuPont’s values and positions. The business operations of DuPont are directly impacted by extensive federal and state laws and regulations in environmental, tax, trade and other areas of importance to the Company. It is essential for DuPont to be involved in the political process by making prudent political contributions consistent with business objectives and in compliance with all federal, state and local laws. DuPont will consider making contributions to candidates and political committees or other entities only to the extent allowed under applicable law. We will not use corporate funds to communicate to the general public advocating the election or defeat of political candidates. The Company reports contributions and other spending as required by both federal and state laws. Through our website, we disclose contributions made by the Company. For a detailed listing, please refer to our Corporate Political Contributions which will be posted on our Corporate Governance site. 55 Product Stewardship Summary Implementation of the Product Stewardship & Regulatory Management System (PS&R MS) has provided DuPont businesses a standardized framework for planning, implementing and measuring performance of priority work for meeting global regulatory requirements while allowing flexibility to meet the specific needs of individual businesses. The PS&R MS is a proven and valued process and a cornerstone of our commitment to Product Stewardship and Responsible Care®. In 2004, DuPont made a commitment to the American Chemistry Council to adopt a new management system approach for implementing Responsible Care® in the U.S., including mandatory independent third-party certification. At the time there was no standardized approach to planning and executing the product stewardship activities and there was no formal approach to monitoring and evaluating performance. The decision was made to implement the Responsible Care® management system for all DuPont businesses, globally. The PS&R MS has provided an integrated, structured approach to improve planning processes, drive execution, develop transparent business product stewardship metrics and measure performance. A key part of the Responsible Care® commitment is mandatory certification by an independent, accredited auditor. All of the more than 220 companies taking part in the Responsible Care® initiative at the American Chemistry Council undergo headquarters and facility audits to assure that they have a system in place to measure, manage and verify performance. For DuPont, product stewardship certifications occur through business audits. This is a unique element to the DuPont implementation and was first accomplished in 2007. The PS&R MS process begins with a strong commitment from business leadership. Business and Corporate leadership annually review the continuing suitability, adequacy and effectiveness of the PS&R MS and makes any necessary changes to enhance performance. The PS&R MS has delivered significant improvements in closure of action items, on-time completion of product stewardship reviews, worldwide training and assurance of PS assessment of all new products prior to commercialization. The PS&R MS also established business PS metrics with action levels for businesses and the PS Incident Program. Inherent in this framework is a commitment to continual improvement. 56 Product Responsibility Performance Indicators PR1 Life cycle stages in which health and safety impacts of products and services are assessed for improvement, and percentage of significant products and service categories to such procedures. Our goal for new product stewardship reviews is 100 percent and our actual completed reviews in 2011 were 99.1 percent. As part of our comprehensive Product Stewardship & Regulatory Management system, the goal is to have all new and existing products and services covered by a product stewardship review. Product stewardship reviews for all products and services are scheduled, conducted and documented prior to commercialization and repeated on a periodic frequency (e.g. every 2, 3 or 4 years) commensurate with risk. The product stewardship review process is one means to verify that effective risk assessment and risk management processes are implemented for each product or product line and to identify opportunities for continuous improvement. The process also requires businesses to conduct product stewardship reviews when significant changes to hazard, exposure, product use, regulatory, or other information is obtained. PR2 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning the health and safety impacts of products and services during their life cycle, by type of outcomes. Product Stewardship Reviews completed during the 2011 reporting period revealed compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning known safety or health impacts. All businesses receive an annual internal Product Stewardship & Regulatory Management System audit and an assessment of incidents is included in the performance measurement section of the audit program. External verification that our product stewardship program meets the American Chemistry Council's requirements was achieved in 2007 and was verified again in 2010. PR3 Type of product and service information required by procedures, and percentage of significant products and services subject to such information requirements. The goal for information requirements covered in the table below is part of our product stewardship review requirement. The product and service categories subject to such requirements is 100 percent. Actual completed reviews in 2011 were 99.1 percent. The product and service information contained in the table is accessible for all products through Material Safety Data Sheets and product labels where required by hazard communication laws and requirements. This information is also reviewed as part of our product stewardship review process for all new and existing products and services. The review includes an assessment of the applicability of regulations, legislation and other Responsible Care® related requirements. 57 Additional customer support may be obtained by contacting Customer Service (FIND.INFO@usa.dupont.com) or the Material Safety Data Sheet coordinator at the contact information provided on the data sheet. PR4 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning product and service information and labeling, by type of outcomes. All businesses receive an annual internal Product Stewardship & Regulatory Management System audit and an assessment of incidents is included in the performance measurement section of the audit program. External verification that our product stewardship program meets the American Chemistry Council's requirements was achieved in 2007 and was verified again in 2010. Three incidents of non-compliance with regulations were identified during the 2011 reporting period. Each of the recorded incidents involved incorrect or missing information on a product label, such as a registration number. In each case there was no known safety or health impact identified prior to the corrections being made. In each case, improved labeling management practices and stakeholder engagement improvements resulted to prevent reoccurrence. PR5 Practices related to customer satisfaction, including results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction. DuPont uses a customer loyalty measurement and improvement system rather than a focus on customer satisfaction, since satisfaction is not a predictor of customer behavior. A metric is in place to track customer loyalty, based on customer ratings of DuPont performance in support of our businesses. Additional customer input provides insights that indicate drivers of loyalty or disloyalty, so that actionable steps can be considered and taken in follow-up. A standardized survey is deployed electronically to customers and is targeted for decision-makers and decision-influencers in top customer companies that represent value chain positions where business and marketing strategy is focused. It is a targeted relationship survey, so it is not sent to all customers. Only a few high-level questions are involved. Businesses provide customer names and related input to the survey process that enables 58 depth of analysis. Businesses then employ processes for listening, acting and tracking improvement opportunities and their impact on both customers and the business. Results are business-specific, though customer responses are not related to individual products or locations of operations. DuPont does not communicate externally about its customer loyalty metric. General results show ongoing improvement in the metric, which has been in place for 5-years. PR6 Programs for adherence to laws, standards, and voluntary codes related to marketing communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship. The product stewardship review process is one means to connect with marketing communication across the organization. The product stewardship review process assesses banned and restricted lists in certain markets, weighs public perception, and is used to engage stakeholders along the product trail for each product, product line or service. The process also requires businesses to conduct product stewardship reviews when significant changes occur in any of these areas. In addition, as part of the product stewardship review process, feedback from all stakeholders is assessed (e.g., customer complaints, technical issues, concerns, etc.) and may result in product changes or other improvements. All new and existing products and services are required to have a product stewardship review scheduled, conducted and documented prior to commercialization and repeated on a periodic frequency (e.g. every 2, 3 or 4 years) commensurate with risk. DuPont developed an environmental marketing claims online application to evaluate all environmental marketing claims made by the 13 business units in the company, thus avoiding exaggerated or false claims. In addition, the DuPont legal team regularly reviews all marketing materials including web content, marketing claims, marketing communications, and trade show materials. PR7 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and codes concerning marketing communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship by type of outcomes. Product Stewardship Reviews completed during the 2011 reporting period revealed compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning known safety or health impacts. In addition, all press releases mentioning sustainability are vetted before being published for evidence of greenwashing or inaccuracies. PR9 Monetary value of significant fines for non-compliance with laws and regulations concerning the provision and use of products and services. Where the reporting organization has not identified any non-compliance with laws or regulations, a brief statement to this fact is sufficient. A 3.3 million dollar (U.S.) EPA fine was paid in 2011. During discussions with EPA, DuPont became aware that EPA disagreed with criteria used by DuPont in assessing reportability under Toxic Substances Control Act (TSCA) §8(e) for inhalation studies. EPA’s position is that its guidance on reporting inhalation results applies to all inhalation phases. DuPont and EPA agreed to settle the case. 59 GRI G3 Index GRI Description Page GRI Profile Reporting Disclosure Level Strategy and Analysis 1.1 Statement from the most senior decision-maker of the organization. 4 Full 1.2 Description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities. 5 Full Organizational Profile 2.1 Name of the Organization. 7 Full 2.2 Primary brands, products, and/or services. 7 Full 2.3 Operational Structure. 7 Full 2.4 Location of organization’s headquarters. 8 Full 2.5 Number of countries where the organization operates. 8 Full 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form. 8 Full 2.7 Markets Served. 8 Full 2.8 Scale of the reporting organization. 10 Full 2.9 Significant changes during the reporting period. 11 Full 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period. 11 Full Report Parameters 3.1 Reporting Period. 12 Full 3.2 Date of the most recent previous report. 12 Full 3.3 Reporting Cycle. 12 Full 3.4 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its content. 12 Full 3.5 Process for defining report content. 12 Full 3.6 Boundary of the report. 13 Full 3.7 State any specific limitations on the scope or boundary. 13 Full Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, leased facilities, outsourced operations, and other entities that can significantly affect 3.8 comparability. 13 Full 3.9 Data measurement techniques and the bases of calculations. 13 Full Explanation of the effect of any re-statements of information provided in 3.10 earlier reports. 13 Full 3.11 Significant changes from previous reporting periods. 13 Full 3.12 Table identifying the location of the Standard Disclosures. 14 Full 3.13 Policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance. 14 Full Governance, Commitments, and Engagement 4.1 Governance structure of the organization. 15 Full Indicate whether the Chair of the highest governance body is also an 4.2 executive officer. 16 Full State the number of members of the highest governance body that are 4.3 independent and/or non-executive members. 16 Full Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to provide recommendations 4.4 or direction to the highest governance body. 16 Full Linkage between compensation for members of the highest governance 4.5 body, senior managers, and executives and the organization’s performance. 17 Full 4.6 Processes in place for the highest governance body to ensure conflicts of 17 Full 60 interests are avoided. Process for determining the qualifications and expertise of the members of 4.7 the highest governance body. 18 Full Internally developed statements of mission or values, codes of conduct, and principles relevant to economic, environmental, and social 4.8 performance and the status of their implementation. 18 Full Procedures of the highest governance body for overseeing the organization’s identification and management of economic, environmental, 4.9 and social performance. 18 Full 4.10 Processes for evaluating the highest governance body’s own performance. 19 Full Explanation of whether and how the precautionary approach or principle is 4.11 addressed. 19 Full Externally developed economic, environmental, and social charters, 4.12 principles, or other initiatives. 19 Full Memberships in associations and/or national/international advocacy 4.13 organizations. 21 Full 4.14 List of stakeholder groups. 21 Full 4.15 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage. 22 Full 4.16 Approaches to stakeholder engagement. 22 Full Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder 4.17 engagement and how the organization has responded. 22 Full Economic Performance Indicators Direct economic value generated and distributed, including revenues, operating costs, employee compensation, donations and other community investments, retained earnings, and payments to capital providers and EC1 governments. 25 Full Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the EC2 organization’s activities due to climate change. 26 Partial EC3 Coverage of the organization’s defined benefit plan obligations. 27 Full EC4 Significant financial assistance received from government. 27 Partial Range of ratios of standard entry level wage compared to local minimum EC5 wage at significant locations of operation. 27 Partial Development and impact of infrastructure investments and services provided primarily for public benefit through commercial, in-kind, or pro EC8 bono engagement. 27 Partial Understanding and describing significant indirect economic impacts, EC9 including the extent of impacts. 28 Partial Environmental Performance Indicators EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary energy source. 30 Full EN4 Indirect energy consumption by primary source. 30 Full EN5 Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency improvements. 31 Partial Initiatives to provide energy-efficient or renewable energy based products and services, and reductions in energy requirements as a result of these EN6 initiatives. 31 Full EN8 Total water withdrawals by source. 33 Full EN9 Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of water. 33 Full EN10 Percentage and total volume of water recycled and reused. 33 Partial Description of significant impacts of activities, products, and services on biodiversity in protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside EN12 protected areas. 34 Partial EN13 Habitats protected or restored. 34 Full 61 Strategies, current actions, and future plans for managing impacts on EN14 biodiversity. 35 Partial EN16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight. 35 Full EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and reductions achieved. 35 Full EN20 NOx, SOx, and other significant air emissions by type and weight. 37 Full EN21 Total water discharge by quality and destination. 38 Partial EN22 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method. 38 Partial EN23 Total number and volume of significant spills. 39 Partial Identity, size, protected status, and biodiversity value of water bodies and related habitats significantly affected by the reporting organization’s EN25 discharges of water and runoff. 39 Full Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of products and services, and EN26 extent of impact mitigation. 39 Full EN30 Total environmental protection expenditures and investments by type. 40 Partial Labor Performance Indicators Total workforce by employment type, employment contract, and region, LA1 broken down by gender. 43 Partial Total number and rate of employee turnover by age group, gender and LA2 region. 43 Partial Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to LA3 temporary or part-time employees, by major operations. 43 Full LA4 Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements. 45 Partial Minimum notice period(s) regarding significant operational changes, LA5 including whether it is specified in collective agreements. 45 Full Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and total LA7 number of work-related fatalities by region. 46 Full Education, training, counseling, prevention, and risk-control programs in place to assist workforce members, their families, or community members LA8 regarding serious diseases. 46 Partial Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that support the continued employability of employees and assist them in managing career LA11 endings. 48 Partial Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career LA12 development reviews. 49 Partial Human Rights Performance Indicators Operations and significant suppliers identified in which the right to exercise freedom of association or collective bargaining may be violated or at HR5 significant risk, and actions taken to support these rights. 50 Partial Operations identified as having significant risk for incidents of child labor, HR6 and measures taken to contribute to the elimination of child labor. 50 Full Operations identified as having significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory labor, measures taken to contribute to the elimination of HR7 forced or compulsory labor. 51 Partial Percentage and total number of operations that have been subject to HR10 human rights reviews and/or impact assessments. 51 Partial Society Performance Indicators Public policy positions and participation in public policy development and SO5 lobbying. 54 Full Total value of financial and in-kind contributions to political parties, SO6 politicians, and related institutions by country. 55 Partial Product Responsibility Performance Indicators 62 Life cycle stages in which health and safety impacts of products and services are assessed for improvement, and percentage of significant PR1 products and service categories to such procedures. 57 Full Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning the health and safety impacts of products and PR2 services during their life cycle, by type of outcomes. 57 Full Type of product and service information required by procedures, and percentage of significant products and services subject to such information PR3 requirements. 57 Full Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning product and service information and labeling, PR4 by type of outcomes. 58 Full Practices related to customer satisfaction, including results of surveys PR5 measuring customer satisfaction. 58 Partial Programs for adherence to laws, standards, and voluntary codes related to marketing communications, including advertising, promotion, and PR6 sponsorship. 59 Partial Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and codes concerning marketing communications, including advertising, promotion, PR7 and sponsorship by type of outcomes. 59 Full Monetary value of significant fines for non-compliance with laws and regulations concerning the provision and use of products and services. Where the reporting organization has not identified any non-compliance PR9 with laws or regulations, a brief statement to this fact is sufficient. 59 Full 63
