p act al Com Glob ations ite dN Un r ess r og on p 0 1 2 catio n 2 u ni mm co This report is Communication On Progress Report of our company that shares the principles of the United Nations Global Compact. We welcome feedback on its contents. 2 Content GRI Performance Page Indicators About the Report 3.1/ 3.2/ 3.3/ 3.4/ 3.5/ 3.6/ 3.7/ 3.12 4 Letter from the General Manager 1.1 5 About MN Pharmaceuticals 6 History of the Company 2.1 7 From Establishment Until Today 8-9 Vision, Mission and Values 10 Ethical principles 11 Scale of the Company 2.8/ EC1 12-13 Products 2.2 14-16 Plants 2.3/ 2.4 17-19 Market Presence 2.5/ 2.6/ 2.7/ 2.9 20-21 Corporate Management Approach 4.8/ 22-23 Stakeholder Engagement 4.14 24-25 Employees 4.16/ 4.17 26-29 Clients 4.16/ 4.17 30 Education Institutions EC8/ 4.16/ 4.17 31-34 Health Professionals 4.16/ 4.17/ EC8 35 Drug Wholesalers and Hospitals 4.16/ 4.17 36 Suppliers 4.16/ 4.17 36 Government Institutions 4.16 36-37 Society EC8 38 UN Global Compact 39-41 Human Rights Management 42 Access to Medicine 2.7/ 2.8/ 4.12 43-44 Patient Rights 45-46 Labour Rights 47 Company Policy HR4/ HR6/ HR7 48 Employment LA1 49 Discrimination and Equal Opportunity LA13/ LA14/ HR4 50-51 Child Labour and Forced Labour HR6/ HR7 52 Occupational Health and Safety LA6/ LA8 53-54 Employee Training and Education LA10/ LA11 55 Environmental 56 Company Policy EN28/ EN30 57-59 Resource Consumption EN3/ EN5/ EN8/ EN9 60-61 Emissions and Waste EN19/ EN20/ EN21/ EN22/ EN23 62-63 Energy Efficiency EN5/ EN10 64 Emission and Waste Materials EN26/ EN27 65-66 Anti-Corruption 67 Company Policy: Code of Conduct SO3/ SO4/ HR4 68 Ethical Advertising and Marketing 4.12/ PR6/ PR7/ SO3 69-70 Audits SO2/ HR6 71 UNGC Progression Targets 72-73 Contact Us 3.4 74 3 About the Report aboutthereport Mustafa Nevzat Pharmaceuticals has signed the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) on May 26, 2010 and has published its first Communication on Progress Report on May 24, 2011. This report is the second communication on progress report. The reporting period is one year and includes the social, economical and environmental activities of MN Pharmaceuticals from 01.01.2011 to 31.12.2011. Corporate information, management approach, stakeholders engagement and information on economical performance of the company is presented in the first part of the report. In the second part issues on performance of MN Pharmaceuticals in Human Rights Management, Labour Rights, Environmental and Anti-Corruption is addressed within the scope of Global Compact principles. During preparation of the Second Communication on Progress Report of MN Pharmaceuticals, our guide was GRI G3 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines and UNGC items were explained in more detail within the scope of these principles. The GRI Index can be found in the ‘Contents’ part of the report. Our report evaluates and reports the progression of MN Pharmaceuticals in economical, environmental and social issues as a whole. The information given in the report is the information it clearly shares with its stakeholders in the scope of Global Compact. This information enables MN Pharmaceuticals’ stakeholders and readers to compare and evaluate the performance of the company. All the information given in the report is the correct and accurate information that should be known by the stakeholders. This report is prepared by qualified personnel in related issues. We have prepared the Communication on Progress Report in the time period that we had identified so our stakeholders can see our performance clearly and we will continue to do so. Our reporting period is the same as the last one. The information we have shared in this report is written and explained so that every stakeholder and all readers who wants to have information on our company can easily understand it. We appreciate your views on our Communication on Progress 2011 report. For any questions and information on this report, please contact Ms. Dilek Durmaz Goleli, Pharmacist and Corporate Affairs Manager. dilek.durmazgoleli@mn.com.tr dilek.durmazgoleli@mn.com.tr 4 Dear reader, As being one of the most well-established pharmaceutical companies of our country, we had published our first report on May 24, 2011 according to the Global Compact we had signed on May 26, 2010. The first report provided us with an opportunity to see our performance and evaluate ourselves. A point we had observed with pleasure as the management of the company was that a lot of values mentioned in the Global Compact were already adapted by the employees and the managers of MN Pharmaceuticals. I think that starting with Professor Mustafa Nevzat Pisak, who was the founder of our company, and then his successors including his family members and managers have a great role in establishing this. In our second report, our activities and developments in social and environmental issues are presented as was last year. Considering the challenges met during the transformation of the pharmaceutical industry in our country, the past two years have not been very satisfactory and we don’t expect it to be so in the next few years, too. However, despite these difficulties, MN Pharmaceuticals has continued its progress successfully both in domestic and in foreign markets and is taking the necessary precautions for its sustainability. The exporting operations we had started in 2004 in view of the economical conditions in our country have started to give results. As MN Pharmaceuticals, it is our belief that the future of the pharmaceutical industry of our country is closely related to the exporting capability and capacity. We would like to emphasize that, as a company, we will continue to spend every effort to accomplish this. We will work without any compromise to give importance to the following values that were established since MN Pharmaceuticals was founded: To respect and trust the efforts of the employee Not to compromise the quality of the product Where required, to make any sacrifice for the interest of our country and aim to become not just a successful national player but an international one too. M. Levent Selamoglu General Manager 5 about MN pharmaceuticals Our History From Its Establishment To Our Day Vision, Mission and Ethical Principles Scale Of The Company Products Plants Market Presence 6 historyoftheCompany Our History MN Pharmaceuticals, established in 1923 in Uskudar under the name Mustafa Nevzat Laboratory, is one of the most well-established pharmaceutical companies of Turkey. MN Pharmaceuticals has undersigned many pioneering developments in the Turkish pharmaceutical industry and is a leader company in the development of national pharmaceutical industry. Our company with its 1400 expert employees and production plants including active pharmaceutical ingredient production that were approved by international authorities such as FDA, EMEA, MHRA is placed among the leader finished product and active pharmaceutical ingredient producers in Turkey. It is a leader company with 89 years experience that is known for the quality and reliability of its products. The organizational structure of MN Pharmaceuticals is composed of general management and headquarter, active pharmaceutical ingredient and finished product production plants and field force; production is performed in five different production plants. In five independent production units in active pharmaceutical ingredients production plants penicillin-group drug active ingredients, macrolide-group drug active ingredients and etodolac, voriconazole, granisetron, zoledronic acid, rocuronium bromide, aripirazole, monosodium ibandronate, monohydrate and imatinib mesylate active ingredients are produced. In one of the plants where finished pharmaceutical preparations are produced penicillin-group beta-lactam products and in the other one, cephalosporin-group beta-lactam products are produced. In the third plant, antibiotics, corticosteroids, cardiovascular agents, anti-inflammatory agents, gastrointestinal agents, antidiabetic agents, central nervous system preparations and agents in other therapy groups other than penicillin and cephalosporin groups are produced. The Injectable Oncolytic Products Plant which is the fourth finished product plant was put into service in the beginning of 2009. Sterile liquid and freeze-dried vial dosage forms are produced in this plant. Pharmaceuticals produced by modern technology according to world standard ‘Current Good Manufacturing Practices’ and ‘Current Good Laboratory Practices’ are presented to help human health both in our country and in many different countries abroad. MN Pharmaceuticals, one of the leading finished drug and active pharmaceutical ingredients producers in Turkey, produces liquid and freeze dried ampoule and vial, vial containing sterile powder for injection dosage forms and hard gelatin capsule, tablet, film-coated tablet and dry powder suspension oral dosage forms in the five production plants which are all, including the active pharmaceutical ingredient plant, FDA (US Food and Drug Administration) approved. With its high-capacity of injectable units and lyophilization facilities, MN Pharmaceuticals is Tukey’s most experienced pharmaceutical company in parenteral drug manufacturing. MN Pharmaceuticals with its goal to provide humans a long life with quality will continue to fulfill its responsibility for modernization of the Turkish Pharmaceutical Industry and to compete with international firms. 7 fromestablishmentuntiltoday From its establishment to our day… Privately founded as Mustafa Nevzat Laboratory in Üsküdar / İstanbul by Prof. Mustafa Nevzat Pısak who played a great role in establishing contemporary pharmacy in Turkey. Production of Pavotin ampoule containing opium alkaloids extracted from poppy seed. Mustafa Nevzat Laboratory, first moved to Divanyolu, then to Nuruosmaniye which are located in the European part of İstanbul. An injectable product of powdered insulin was manufactured for the first time in Turkey. Moved to Mecidiyeköy/İstanbul and became a joint stock company. The first enteric-coated tablet was registered in Turkey (Entersal). New buildings were added to the Production and Quality Control units. Start of the production of active pharmaceutical ingredients (API). Some pharmaceutical forms such as syrups, ointments, creams and dry powder suspensions were produced at the temporary building in Yenibosna / İstanbul. A dedicated production plant established in Yenibosna to manufacture finished dosage forms of penicillin like beta-lactams (Plant I Penicillin-like Beta-lactam Products). A dedicated production plant established in Yenibosna to manufacture finished dosage forms of cephalosporin like beta lactams (Plant II Cephalosporin-like Beta-lactam Products). The API Units were moved from İzmit Köseköy to the new modern facilities at Çayırova-Şekerpınar. In these modern facilities, Clarithromycin and Clarithromycin granules for suspension, Sulbactam Sodium, Sultamicillin Tosylate and Sultamicillin Base were produced in those years. 8 fromestablishmentuntiltoday Yenibosna Plant III, which is one of the most modern facilities in Turkey, was completed. This plant is dedicated to non-penicillin and non-cephalosporin finished dosage forms (Plant III Other Products). MN Pharmaceuticals signed strategic partnership agreements with several leading US generic companies for marketing and sales of its products and has submitted the first ANDA dossier to FDA. This is also a “first” for the Turkish Pharmaceutical Industry. By taking the initial step in exporting finished dosage forms to US, MN Pharmaceuticals has paved the way for the other Turkish pharmaceutical companies to follow. The API and finished dosage forms facilities have been inspected and approved by FDA in November. As a result of FDA inspection, MN Pharmaceuticals has been the first Turkish Pharma Company which has been granted the FDA approval for the API and finished dosage forms. The finished dosage forms facilities have been awarded the Environment Management Systems Certificate in the scope of ISO 14001 Standards by the British Management Systems Organization BSI. As a result of the MHRA inspection conducted in May, MN Pharmaceuticals received the Certificate of GMP Compliance of a Manufacturer from the British Ministry of Health.The second product entered the USA market in July. The newly established and the fourth production plant of the finished dosage forms facilities, Injectable Oncolytic Products Plant was completed at the beginning of 2009.Following the certification investigation studies conducted by Turkish Standards Institute, MN Pharmaceuticals Active Pharmaceutical Ingredients Plant has been awarded the Environment Management System Certificate in the scope of TSE ISO 14001 Standards in January. The finished dosage forms facilities have been awarded the OHSAS 18001 Occupational Health and Safety Certificate which was presented by the British Management Systems Organization BSI. The finished dosage forms facilities have been inspected and approved for the fourth time by German Health authorities and EU-GMP Certificate has been granted. (First approval was received in July, 2004.) 2010 The Oncolytic Products Plant was approved by the US Food and Drug Administration (FDA) in May and by the European Medicine Agency (EMEA) in July.In December, the oncolytic drugs were shipped from Turkey to USA for the first time. Plant IPenicillin like Beta lactam Products, Plant IICephalosporin like Beta lactam Products and Plant IIIOther Products were inspected and approved by the GCC ( Gulf Cooperation Council). As of 12.06.2012, 99.8 percent of MN Pharmaceuticals shares was acquired by Amgen. 9 visionmission Our Vision Our vision is to continue and expand our leading role into international arena in creating the “firsts” of the national pharmaceutical industry, sustain and continue to be the preferred company for our business partners and employees in reference of trust. Our mission Our mission is to serve national and international community to provide a healthier and happier life by producing high quality and cost-effective medicines. Our values Our values are respect for people and society, honesty, integrity, trust and customer satisfaction. 10 ethicalprinciples Our Ethical Principles The most important motivation of our company since it was founded has been the basic values and principles that are unwritten but voluntarily accepted by every MN employee. In order to convey these basic values and principles to future generations without compromising and to secure the sustainability of the ethical stance of the company, ‘Ethical Principles’ were identified in detail and our expectations from primarily our employees and then our partners were specified. Our Ethical Principles are composed of five basic headings that are important for our institution.These principles are: we care for, our values, our work discipline, our innovative identity and our commitment. We expect all our employees to act within these ‘Ethical Principles’ during their business process because all our employees are the ones to take the responsibility of the brandname MN in the most appropriate way in the care of our partners. We should give utmost importance to behave to augment the company’s brandname and its image. We have shared this ‘Ethical Principles Booklet’ that we have developed for this purpose with our employees and in the MN corporate website. Our values are our future... 11 scaleofthecompany Scale Of The Company As of 31.12.2011, the value of all company assets worth 361 millon Turkish liras. The company gets 85% of all its income from domestic sales (finished dosage forms, toll manufacturing and active pharmaceutical ingredients). In 2011, 85% of the net sales were made in domestic and 15% in foreign markets. During the reporting period, 107 million boxes of drugs were produced in the finished dosage form production plants and 95,000 kg active pharmaceutical ingredients were produced in the active pharmaceutical ingredients plants. With its increasing manufacturing capacity, MN Pharmaceuticals has been increasing its production amount in finished product plants on a unit basis. 50.000.000 45.000.000 2009 35.000.000 2010 30.000.000 2011 25.000.000 20.000.000 15.000.000 10.000.000 5.000.000 0 Penicillin Plant Cephalosporin Plant Other Products Plant Oncolytic Plant Toll Manufacturing 2009 2010 2011 Total Production 86.945.000 92.935.000 107.800.000 Penicillin Plant 15.700.000 16.500.000 20.000.000 Cephalosporin Plant 24.500.000 29.300.000 36.000.000 Other Products Plant 43.200.000 43.600.000 47.500.000 Oncolytic Plant 45.000 135.000 200.000 Toll Manufacturing 3.500.000 3.400.000 4.100.000 12 scaleofthecompany MN Pharmaceuticals, with its wide capacity injectable preparation units and lyophilization plants is the most experienced parenteral drug manufacturing company in Turkey. NUMBER OF UNITS OF ORAL AND INJECTABLE PREPARATION PRODUCTION IN 2009-2011 90.000.000 80.000.000 70.000.000 Oral 60.000.000 Injectable 50.000.000 40.000.000 30.000.000 20.000.000 10.000.000 0 2009 2010 2011 According to 2011 Turkish drug market retail sales pharmacy data, MN Pharmaceuticals which ranked 19. among the 300 companies in the pharmaceutical field in Turkey by the end of 2011 has accomplishment a growth above the market. In this market where there is a serious competition among the 300 firms, MN Pharmaceuticals ranked 19th on TL basis with its 1,67 market share and 11th on unit basis with its 2.83 unit shares. 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Total Market (TL) 11.587.655.611 12.752.662.424 14.844.006.070 14.789.768.730 15.178.767.795 MN Pharmaceuticals (TL) 142.313.843 172.793.604 247.594.451 246.478.410 254.137.300 Rank 25 24 19 20 19 Market Share (%) 1,23 1,36 1,67 1,67 1,67 When the same evaluation is applied among the national pharmaceutical companies, MN Pharmaceuticals ranked 5th on unit basis and 8th on TL basis. As of 31.12.2011, MN Pharmaceuticals has 62 different drug trademarks in the Turkish market. Of these, 60 are produced by MN Pharmaceuticals. 7 of these, from active pharmaceutical ingredients up to the finished dosage forms, are completely produced in MN Pharmaceutical plants. 13 Therapeutic Groups and Products SYSTEMIC ANTI INFECTIVES Amoksina Suspension Amoksina Tablet Ampisid Film Tablet Ampisid IM Injectable Vial Ampisid IM / IV Injectable Vial products Ampisid Suspension Ampisina Injectable Ampisina Capsule Ampisina Suspension Ampisina Tablet Betaksim Injectable Vial B-Laktam IM /IV Vial Erasef Film Tablet Erasef Suspension Klovireks-L Freeze Dried Vial Lumen Injectable Vial Menefloks Film Tablet Menefloks IV Injectable Vial Multisef IM Vial Multisef IM / IV Vial Nevakson IM Vial Nevakson IV Vial Primasef IM / IV Vial Sef Film Tablet Sef Suspension Sefazol IM Vial Sefazol IM / IV Vial Tazoper IV Vial Tetra Capsule Uniklar Film Tablet Uniklar Suspension Uniklar IV Injectable Vial Unisef IM / IV Vial Zefomen Film Tablet 14 CARDIOVASCULAR SYSTEM Diltizem Freeze Dried Vial Diltizem SR Tablet Kapril Tablet Monovas Tablet Perivel Plus Tablet Sitorel Film Tablet products Vasoplan Ampoule Vasoplan SR Tablet MUSCULO SKELETAL SYSTEM Adeleks IM Ampoule Adeleks Tablet Blok-L IV Vial Edolar Fort Film Tablet Oksamen Film Coated Tablet Oksamen-L Injectable Freeze Dried Vial Zolenat IV Vial ALIMENTARY AND METABOLISM Dyndion Tablet Emetril Ampoule Emetril Film Tablet Gastrazol-L Vial Hipoglis MR Tablet Lacdigest Chewing Tablet Nevofam Tablet Nevofam-L Ampoule Opagis Capsule CORTICOSTEROIDS Prednol Cream Prednol Ointment Prednol Tablet Prednol-A Cream Prednol-A Ointment Prednol-L Injectable Freeze-Dried Ampoule 15 ONCOLOGY Carmen IV Vial Doxel IV Vial Flumen Vial İdamen IV Vial Linoxa IV Vial Renovel IV Vial products Rubens Vial Tekamen IV Vial HEMATOLOGY Aktibol Capsule Aktibol Freeze Dried Ampoule Nevparin Vial CENTRAL NERVOUS SYSTEM Nopez Film Tablet Redepra Film Tablet Serex Film Tablet DERMATOLGY (OTHERS) Zetion Suspension IMMUNOMODULATORS İmuneks Capsule İmuneks Syrup İmuneks Plus Capsule İmuneks Q10 Capsule ANTIANEMIC Captafer Tablet HERBAL SEDATIVES Seredial 8 Hours Tablet SWEETENERS Sucrafit Tablet 16 plants Plants The headquarters of MN Pharmaceuticals is in Gayrettepe, Istanbul. Finished dosage forms production facilities are located in Yenibosna, Istanbul and active pharmaceutical ingredients production plants are in Sekerpinar, Kocaeli. Approximately 1400 people are employed at MN Pharmaceuticals. In Yenibosna production plants, there are four separate production units. In one of the independent plants where pharmaceutical forms are manufactured, penicillinlike beta-lactam antibiotics are produced; in the other one cephalosporin-like betalactam antibiotics and in the third unit antibiotics other than the penicillin and cephalosporin groups are produced. Products that belong to other therapy groups are also produced in this third plant. Oncolytics production unit where liquid and freeze-dried vial dosage form anti-cancer drugs are produced serves as the fourth production unit. Production of all basic pharmaceutical forms at world standards is in accordance with the “Current Good Manufacturing Practices” (cGMP). 17 plants Sekerpinar Active Pharmaceutical Ingredients (API) plants are located on a 15,000 m² covered space in Cayırova, Kocaeli with 100 experienced personnel and modern equipments. Two production plants producing active pharmaceutical ingredients, a pilot plant, a small-scale production plant, a quality control laboratory, research and development laboratory, a waste water treatment facility and units supporting the production are located in this area In the four separate production units in Active Pharmaceutical Ingredients production plants penicillin-group drug active substances, macrolide-group drug active substances and etodolac and other drug active substances are manufactured. In November 2006, the API Plant has been inspected and approved by FDA. In June 2009, API Plant has been inspected and approved for the second time by FDA. 18 regionaloffices Regional Offices Our national sales and marketing activities are conducted by 40 Regional Managements and 16 Regional Offices. The Regional Managements and Offices are shown in the Table below. REGIONAL OFFICES CITY REGIONAL OFFICES CITY İstanbul Region İSTANBUL Adana Region GAZİANTEP Eurasian Region İSTANBUL Central Anatolian Region KONYA East Marmara Region ADAPAZARI Central Anatolian Region KAYSERİ Bursa Region BURSA Black Sea Region TRABZON Ankara Region ANKARA Black Sea Region SAMSUN Aegean Region İZMİR Eastern Anatolia Region MALATYA Medıterranean Region ANTALYA Eastern Anatolia Region ERZURUM Adana Region ADANA Southeastern Anatolia DİYARBAKIR Region 19 marketpresence Market Presence MN Pharmaceuticals is one of the leading producers of finished dosage forms and active pharmaceutical ingredients. It is in the service of human health since 1923. In the list of companies made according to 2011 Turkish Drug Market Retail Sales Pharmacy Data, MN Pharmaceuticals ranked 11th on unit basis among the 300 pharmaceutical companies. When the same listing is applied among the national pharmaceutical companies, it ranked 5th. When the same data is evaluated on TL basis, we can see that MN Pharmaceuticals ranked 19th in the listing. When the same method is applied among the national pharmaceutical copmpanies, our company ranked 8th. International markets where our products are marketed at are North and South America, Middle Europe, Eastern Europe, North Africa, West Africa, Middle East, Far East, North Asia, Turkic Republics, Balkan Countries and Arabian Peninsula. Our products can be accessed by patients in 25 countries listed below: Afghanistan, Macedonia, Iraq, Algeria, Vietnam, Malaysia, Libya, Lebanon, Saudi Arabia, Philippines, Germany, U.S.A, Venezuela, Kosovo, Albania, Bosnia, Kazakhstan, Azerbaijan, Georgia, Moldova, Uzbekistan, Russia, Ukraine, Latvia, Bulgaria 20 marketpresence Products in the treatment groups listed below were exported to the above mentioned international markets: Antiinfective Agents Antineoplastic Agents Hematological Agents Cardiovascular System Agents Musculoskeletal System Agents Corticosteroid Agents Central Nervous System Agents Gastrointestinal System and Metabolism Agents Finished dosage form exporting of MN Pharmaceuticals has continued to increase in 2011 as was in the previous years. In the year 2011, the rate of increase in the export of Finished dosage form was 16,15 %. 2007-2011 Finished dosage form export (USD) 40.000.000 35.000.000 30.000.000 25.000.000 20.000.000 15.000.000 10.000.000 5.000.000 0 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 As of the reporting period (1.1.2011-31.12.2011) MN Pharmaceuticals is a joint stock company with a 100% Turkish capital and there has been no significant changes on size, structure or ownership during the reporting period. 21 corporate management approach The Board of Directors of MN Pharmaceuticals Organization Chart 22 corporatemanagementapproach Corporate Management Approach As of the reporting period (1.1.2011-31.12.2011) MN Pharmaceuticals is a joint stock company with a 100% Turkish capital and there has been no significant changes on size, structure or ownership during the reporting period. As of the reporting period (1.1.2011-31.12.2011) the managemental structure of our institution is specified below: The Board of Directors of MN Pharmaceuticals: Honorary Chairman : Nevhiz Pak Chairman of the Board : Mehmet Cengiz Sezen Vice-President of the Board : İ. M. İskender Pısak Members : M. Levent Selamoğlu (General Manger) : Ali Alp Akkor : Ayhan Aslan : Semra Bingöl : Ünal Bozkurt : M. Ferran Dinçer : A. Halit Gündüz Organization Chart CEO Marketing and Sales Director International Commercial Director Business Development Director Technial Operations Director Human Resources Manager CFO Quality Assurance Manager (FDF) Quality Assurance Manager (API) Project Development Manager 23 stakeholder engagement Employees Clients Education Institutions Health Professionals Pharmaceutical Distributors and Hospitals Our Suppliers Public Institutions Society 24 stakeholderengagement Stakeholder Interaction MN Pharmasceuticals is a company that values its stakeholders and interacts with its partners in various activities. Our Partners: • Employees • Clients • Health Sector • Suppliers • Hospitals • Health Professionals (Physicians, Pharmacists, Nurses) • Pharmacy Wholesalers • Sectoral Institutions and Syndicates • Media • Universities • Civil Society Organizations • Public Societies and Establishments • Society 25 Employees Our employees are among the important partners of our company. By establishing an interaction with our employees, we aim to increase their efficiency, augment their motivations and maintain the continuity of their loyalty to the company. To accomplish this, the procedures we had prepared for human resources periods were up-dated on 10.03.2011 and shared with all our employees on the MN website. employees Up-dated procedures: • Hiring procedure, • Training procedure, • Performance evaluation procedure, • Dress procedure, • Annual leave procedure • Paying in advance procedure, • Employee proposal system procedure, • Internship procedure. Communication with our employees is supplied by HR Proposal System, Rota Magazine, electronic communication, various social sports activities, periodical meetings, subject-based questionnaires and workers’ clubs. MN Portal The MN Intranet Website Project has implemented in the beginning of 2011 aims to increase the e the interaction between MN employees, to design the work periods, facilitate cooperation and to increase sharing of data. The Intranet Website that can be accessed through media with a web-screened base serves as a safe storage of data that can be reached from anywhere on earth at any time for an important information. MN Website project is applied by following ASAP project monitoring methodology of SAP along with MN Project team. This Website aims to increase the communication within the company with the support of employees and to provide a single platform for access for every application. MN Webpage can be reached by a personal username and password. Within this Webpage, there are various areas where employees can express themselves such as questionnaires, forums, and blogs. With the SAP Webpage Project that we have completed in 2011 within a short period such as 3 months, our employees can effectively and easily gain access to all information, applications and services that they may need during their daily work within or outside the company. 26 Our employees can obtain basic information about our company, Human Resources applications and information on our company in the media such as ‘MN in the Media’ on our webpage along with various information on institutional announcements. We share the most special moments of our lives as MN family in our Personnel Announcements where births and marriages are located. employees My Company In this part where a brief introduction to our company is made, both our employees in the orientation period and our existing personnel can reach the ‘firsts’ booklet where an introductory film, list of products, countries we export our products and novelties that MN has contributed to the drug industry are described. Human Resources Our employees can reach various applications performed in the Human Resources Unit. A general organization chart, current procedures and forms, our Ethical Principles booklet and our personal development page that is up-dated monthly are our applications that can be reached. Personnel Data Up-dating Our employees can up-date their contact information, educational status, marital status and the number of their children in the ‘Information Up-dating’ page and data approved by the HR are transferred automatically to the SAP system. Career Opportunities Our employees can follow the open positions on the related link, can personally apply or recommend their friends. A detailed information on the time period can be obtained here. It is an equal opportunites application that is open to all our employees. Birthday Celebrations We share the birthdays of all our employees on the MN ‘Born Today’ page and convey our personal congratulations. The Beginners By announcing our new employees with their photos and a brief summary of their CV, we aim to decrease their adaptation period. Agenda We share current news and issues about pharmaceutical industry to stay up to date. 27 Periodical Meetings During the year of 2011, two periodical meetings including all field force were performed. In addition, 5 launching meetings were conducted with related field force and marketing teams. employees Rota magazine It is the company publication of MN which has started its publication life as sixteen pages and has evolved to its enriched current form. It is published 4 times a year, every 3 months, to establish internal communication between the employees and to gather them under a mutual understanding and a sense of belonging. It has a circulation of 1400 and distributed only to MN employees. In the contents of Rota magazine prepared as 48 pages as of 2012, company news, organizations that the company has held during that period, ceremonies, meetings, activities and organizations that the unit within the company has held, introductions of our units and products, essays written by the employees and the photos they have taken and current issues on health, personal development, sports, dance, etc. are included. In each issue, a few guests such as teachers, specialists, artists, painters or authors are selected and these guests are presented with their essays and interviews. Celebration of Pharmacists Day, Medical Doctors Day and Accountants Day: We celebrate the Pharmacists Day, Medical Doctors Day and Accountants Day every year by organizations conducted within the company. A scene from the Medical Doctors Day... A scene from the Pharmacists Day... 28 Internal Communication: MN Pharmaceuticals, in order to strengthen the communication between employees and between employeees and company, uses various ways such as the Rota magazine, announcement boards, “I Have an Idea” Proposal System, social sportive activities, periodical meetings, MN webpage and Photography employees Club. In Rota magazine that is published only for MN employees every 3 months, current news on the company and employees are included and also hobby, personal development and health issues are given wide coverage. Employees are encouraged to send in their essays and photographs to this magazine that is open to general participation. MN Calender Each year in the competition conducted in the photography club, the best photographs taken by our employees are selected and a calender is made of these which are distributed to our employees. Scholarships MN Pharmaceuticals financially supports the children of the deceased employees throughout their education. 29 Clients Client complaints are evaluated annually according to Quality Management Procedure and the top management is informed. In addition, in the annual product review report of each product, complaints during the year are evaluated. In our active pharmaceutical ingredient (API) plant, client complaints are evaluated according to the quality-system-approved procedure. The complaints are communicated directly from the client (info@mn.com.tr) or through foreign trade directorate to the Quality Assurance Unit and recorded electronically. In clients addition, Technical Operations Director is informed of every complaint. Client complaints are divided into two categories as critical and non-critical and response duration varies according to this classification. For example, the response period for critical complaints is 7 days,whereas for non-critical complaints, this period is 30 days. When a complaint is received, an investigation related to the issue is performed. This investigation is performed by Production (storage and packaging activities included), Quality control and R&D units through the coordination of Quality Assurance Unit. The path to be followed in the investigation and scope are decided with the related units. Sampling plan and tests to be conducted are determined. Where deemed necessary, production batch records are re-investigated. All these studies are documented in the Investigation Protocol or Direct Client Complaint form. At the end of the investigation, if the complained problem is validated, the basic reason for the problem is determined and the necessary corrective and preventive actions are determined and an investigation report is prepared. As a result of this report, a Complaint Response to the client is sent containing the corrective actions taken. Furthermore, in order to avoid recurring of the problem, corrective actions specified to the client are monitored and their effectiveness is checked. 30 educationinstitutions Education Institutions Supporting the society and education have always been among the priorities of our institution. We give importance to scientific cooperation with universities and educational facilities and supportive studies. MN Pharmaceuticals Pharmacy Award The Mustafa Nevzat Pharmacy Award was established to encourage scientific studies in pharmacy. MN Pharmaceuticals Pharmacy Award, which is the first award in this field, was given for the first time in 1989 to support the scientific studies in the pharmaceutical field. This award is given to a selected doctorate thesis in the pharmaceutical field every two years. The candidate should have a pharmacy diploma and the doctorate thesis should have been accepted by the relevant faculty. The jury consists of provosts chosen from the 19 faculties of pharmacy in Turkey. Following the evaluation of the jury, the award is presented to the winner in a ceremony held in İstanbul. MN Pharmaceuticals pharmacy award, which is the most prestigious award in its field and which promotes modernization and R&D in the field of pharmacy, supports development of pharmaceutics and industry-university cooperation in Turkey and presents an opportunity for researchers to advance in their careers. The 13. Mustafa Nevzat Pharmacy Award conducted on May 2012. Past award recipients are: The Studies That Shed Light On The Future Of The Pharmacy 1989 Dr. Pharm. Varol Pabuçcuoglu , Ege University Faculty of Pharmacy 1990 Dr. Pharm. Sema Çalis , Ankara University Faculty of Pharmacy 1992 Dr. Pharm. Hülya Perçiner , Ankara University Faculty of Pharmacy 1994 Dr. Pharm. Ayşen Yörüker , Hacettepe University Faculty of Pharmacy 1996 Dr. Pharm. Meral Tunçbilek , Ankara University Faculty of Pharmacy 1998 Dr. Pharm. Ş. Güniz Küçükgüzel , Marmara University Faculty of Pharmacy 2000 Dr. Pharm. Betül Demirci , Anadolu University Faculty of Pharmacy 2002 Dr. Pharm. Suna Erdogan , Hacettepe University Faculty of Pharmacy 2004 Dr. Pharm. Seval Korkmaz , Anadolu University Faculty of Pharmacy 2006 Dr. Pharm. Devrim Demir , Hacettepe University Faculty of Pharmacy 2008 Dr. Pharm. Timucin Ugurlu , Marmara University Faculty of Pharmacy 2010 Dr. Pharm. Ayşe Karaca Çilek , Gazi University Faculty of Pharmacy 2012 Dr. Pharm. Sibel İlbasmış Tamer , Gazi University Faculty of Pharmacy 31 educationinstitutions MN Pharmaceutical and Cultural Centre The building in Usküdar-Ihsaniye/Istanbul where the Mustafa Nevzat Laboratory was founded in 1923 was restored in 1987 to become the Mustafa Nevzat Pharmaceutical, Medical and Cultural Center . The mission of the center is providing a facility to hold seminars and cultural activities. MN Pharmaceutical, Medical and Cultural Center has a meeting and concert hall to accommodate 60 people. Various seminars, particularly in the fields of pharmacy and medicine, and occasionally chamber music concerts are held in this hall. The museum, designed to commemorate the founder of the company, displays selected personal and professional belongings of Prof. Mustafa Nevzat Pisak. There is also a library including old pharmaceutical and medical books, and an original pharmacy dating back to the same period. 32 educationinstitutions Mustafa Nevzat Pısak Professional Training Center Mustafa Nevzat Pısak Professional Training Center, located at Bakırkoy Industrial High School was established with the support of MN Pharmaceuticals. Mustafa Nevzat Pisak Professional Training Center had started to function in 1982 at Bakirkoy Industrial Profession High School as one of the 5 centers in Istanbul. In 2001, following completion of its building by a grant from MN Pharmaceuticals, it has moved to its current building. According to the amendment of the Professional Training Law no. 3308 and law no 4702 dated 06/29/2001, it has continued to serve under the name “Mustafa Nevzat Pısak Professional Training Center”. The most important feature of the school is the architectural project and related equipments. The school is composed of 3 blocks on a 10 acres lot.. Currently, there are 1450 apprentice and 381 master-candidate students enrolled in the school. . 33 educationinstitutions Eskişehir Yukarı Söğütönü Civillian Help Organization Occupational Training Center In this school which is affiliated to Ministry of National Education General Directorate of Private Training and Guidance Services, severe and moderately mentally retarded children aged 18 and over are trained. As of 2011-2012 school year 5 teachers for 39 Mentally Retarded children and 2 Technological drafting teachers work and painting courses, Siblumation pressing course and notebook spiral binding courses in 5 workshops are given. Mustafa Nevzat Pharmaceuticals purchases the products produced by these students and uses them in various projects; thus provides the school financial aid. The cloth bags and spiral notebooks produced by the students for MN Pharmaceuticals are used with ‘Mentally Retarded-Friendly Pharmaceutical Manufacturer’ logo. 34 healthprofessionals Health Professionals Our company has many activities related to the health professionals (physician, dentist, pharmacist, nurse) who are among the most important partners of our company. Health professionels are visited by our field team at regular intervals and our products are introduced to them. In addition, educational activities are harranged for the professional advancement of the health professionals we are in contact with. Below please find some training activities that were held for our health professional partners in 2011: • ‘Practical ECG’ trainings for Family Physicians • ‘Lung X-Ray reading’ for Family Physicians • Hypertension trainings for Family Physicians • Diabetes trainings for Family Physicians • “Genetics of neuro-psychiatry and pharmaco-genetic treatment approaches’ meetings • Orthopedic surgery meetings • Various sponsorships in 30 National Medicinal and Pharmaceutical conventions Social and cultural publications directed at health professionals are prepared and sent to them (Distribution of Periscope and NTV History Magazine). 35 governmentinstitutions Pharmaceutical Distributors and Hospitals MN Pharmaceuticals has been serving in the health sector since 1923 . The two most important supporters of our presence in this sector are pharmaceutical distributors and hospitals. We consider both pharmaceutical distributors, which deliver our products across the country under all circumstances, and hospitals, which treat patients with our products, as our business partners rather than clients. Pharmaceutical distributors and hospitals are our fellow companions in the sector. We make sure to provide a work environment that depends on respect and mutual trust as we continue to work in solidarity for our patients. Our Suppliers Our disposition that gives great value to people, efforts and trust is our first concern in our relations with our partners as well as suppliers. We accept our suppliers as business partners contributing to the quality of our work processes. This concept leads us to be very meticulous when choosing our suppliers. We express ourselves very clearly to our suppliers and show great care to make sure that all processes are within identified standards and rules. Mutual trust is important in our relations with our suppliers. We protect their rights and interests, provide the most suitable financial and moral conditions and in return, we expect to receive the high quality service we mentioned above. Public Institutions MN Pharmaceuticals aims to provide our nation and the whole world with high quality, reliable, and cost-friendly products. So far it has supported many R&D projects. Some of these projects are being implemented within the framework of TUBITAK-TEYDEB Technology and Innovation Funding Programs. The purpose of Turkey Scientific and Technological Research Institution (TÜBİTAK) – Technology and Innovation Funding Programs (TEYDEB); is to improve industrial research, improve technological advancement and modernization, monitor and support cooperation of university-industry. In line with these purposes, TEYDEB supports the research and technological developmental activities of all institutions operating in our country and contributes to the transformation of technology which is the most important source of development in our age into the benefit of the community. TÜBİTAK Industry Research-Development Projects Support Program is carried out to motivate the R&D studies of the companies that add value on a company basis and by this, to contribute for augmentation of R&D ability of the Turkish industry. 36 governmentinstitutions The projects that were implemented at MN Pharmaceuticals plants with the support of TUBITAK-TEYDEP are listed below: Project name Project beginning Status Place end time Development of production methods of new active pharmaceutical ingredients 01.09.2009 – 30.11.2011 Completed MN Sekerpinar Development of production methods of new active pharmaceutical ingredients 01.05.2007 – 31.08.2009 Completed API Plants Development of production and analysis methods of Antineoplastics, Antiinfectives, 01.06.2011 – 31.05.2013 In progress Antiemetic drug active pharmaceutical ingredients and pilot production Development of injectable oncolytic product formulations 01.05.2007 – 30.04.2010 Completed Development of new freeze-dried injectable product formulations 01.05.2007 – 30.06.2010 Completed Development of new freeze-dried 01.01.2009 – 30.12.2011 Completed MN Yenibosna oncolytic injectable product formulations Development of new injectable product formulations 01.12.2009 – 01.12.2012 In progress Drug Plants Development of the formulations of some chronically used drugs that are not on the 01.05.2010 – 30.04.2013 In progress Turkish market yet Effective equivalent drug (product) development in treatment of malignant pleural 01.07.2011 – 31.10.2013 In progress mesothelioma disease and pilot production Serotonin-antagonist equivalent drug (product) development in radio-chemotherapy treatment 01.07.2011 – 31.10.2013 In progress and pilot production Below is a list of the benefits gained with these completed and on-going projects: • Development of new products and new processes, • Financial support for continuation of the project, • Prestige, • Cooperation with research institutions (Istanbul University, Gebze High Technology Institute, TUBİTAK MAM), • Verifying the quality of R&D project, • Improved ability to develop technology, • Systemization in procurement of consultancy services, • More-developed R&D infrastructure, • Documentation of data formed during R&D activities, • Enhanced team spirit of all the units that participate in the R&D studies, • Developing team culture in managing R&D projects, • Encouraging new ideas and proposals withing the company. The data and outcomes obtained from the Projects are systematically archieved and stored for use in the future. Thus, the project can be evaluated for data management, risk management, source management, etc and a structure is built for archieving, filing and data transfer. 37 society Society In Van earthquake which was one of the greatest disasters our country has lived through in recent years, we, with all our employees, decided to give support under the responsibility of our company, to those that suffered.. For this porpose, we sent packages containing winter clothes, boots, winter underwear, blankets, baby food, diapers, baby clothes, kitchen utensils, batteries, tent lamps, flashlights, dry foods (such as pasta, pulses, etc.) to Van City Disaster Emergency Management through our local centers. NGO MEMBERSHIPS MN Pharmaceuticals has membership in following organizations. Additionally it holds Vice-Presidentship in the Board of Directors of TISD. • Turkish Drug Industry Institution • Foreign Economic Relations Council (TISD) (DEIK) • Turkish Union of Chambers and • International Commercial Exchange Commodities (TOBB) Committee (ICC) • Istanbul Chamber of Commerce • Kocaeli Chamber of Commerce (ITO) (KOSANO) • Istanbul Chamber of Industry • Gebze Chamber of Commerce (ISO) • Turkish Exporters Association • German-Turkish Chamber of Commerce (AHK) 38 UN global compact Human Rights Management Protection of Employee Rights Environmental Management Anti-Corruption 39 unglobalcompact United Nations Global Compact Principles Human Rights Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights, Employers should always listen to their employees and should defend their rights by providing appropriate work conditions. A lot of well known words such as empathy, common sense can be spelled here and employers should defend the rights of their employers just as much as they defend their own. Principle 2: Businesses should make sure they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Employers should not take advantage of human rights abuse. On the contrary, they should be able to lead the way in taking precautions to prevent these violations before they happen. LABOUR Items in Work Conditions are taken from Declaration on Basic Rights and Principles on Work ILO. Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; The employees can join in any trade union or not. What is important here is that the decision is made by the employee himself and the employer respects this decision. Principle 4: The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Employees should give their services voluntarily. They should be able to work according to the laws and resign when they want. They should not be exposed to forced work or abuse in their jobs. Their payments should be made in cash. Principle 5: The effective abolition of child labour; and ILO agreement specifies that no child under the age of 15 should be hired. There should be no sexual abuse, child kidnapping, slavery because of debts, forced work or slavery. Especially in developing countries, since child labour is cheap, child abuse is seen. It is a known fact that children with no social rights are exposed to permenant diseases at a very early age. Principle 6: The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Those people that are hired should be hired only for their abilities. Hiring because of sex, race and religion should be prevented. We see this in Turkey in varous forms. Another example is being from the same town. In fact, this is harmful for the employer and hiring the right person for that job will be more effective and fruitful financially. 40 unglobalcompact ENVIRONMENT Principle 7: Business should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; The environment issue requires a vast knowledge. Along with monitoring the legal issues, actions of different companies, through comparison, can be observed and administered. All environment-friendly approaches around the world should be monitored, supported and steps should be taken towards executing them. Employers can take these steps by applying ISO 14001 environment standard in their work places. Principle 8: Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Institutions should support all environment-friendly actions according to their capacities. All the institution in the country should take place in this movement. Universities, schools, associations and private institutions should be aware of the environment and should be able to participate in various activities. Principle 9: Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Environment-friendly technologies help in obtaining natural sources at a reasonable price as well as air and water. Continuous development is a must in these technologies. ANTI-CORRUPTION Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Basics are superiority of the law, honesty, accountability and clarity. As well known, Global Principles Agreement is voluntary. There is no sanction or audit. In the new arrangements, work is being done on sanction and audit mechanisms. Any company can apply and this brings a set of problems. It is unfair that there is no difference between companies that apply the Global Principles Agreement fully and those that do not. Signing the Global Compact agreement is not sufficient. All institutions that use the Global Compact logo should follow the rules and should be able to improve themselves. The companies should be able to at least ask from their suppliers to follow these rules. It should be remembered that corruption and wrong-doings of a supplier of a very successful company can, in time, effect the successful company too. 41 human rights management Access to Medicine Patient Rights 42 acesstomedicine ACCESS TO MEDICINE Our biggest responsibility in the field of Human Rights is placed on human health. Therefore, MN Pharmaceuticals works for delivering its products to a wide portion of the Turkish and global society in accordance with the Human Rights Principles and Access to Drugs for Pharmaceutical Manufacturers published by the United Nations. MN Pharmaceuticals has produced 107 million units of finished dosage forms in 2011 and has delivered 15% of this amount to patients in 25 countries including developing countries such as Afghanistan, Algeria, Iraq, Lebanon, Sudan, Syria, Turkmenistan, Vietnam and Yemen. Whereas in Turkey, according to retail sales data of 2011, MN Pharmaceuticals, ranked 11th among the 300 producer on unit basis; this shows the important role it plays in protecting the human health. Our company, ranked 5th among the national producers on unit basis, serves human health by having a total of 16 regional offices located from Diyarbakır to Izmir to facilitate the accessibility of its products to patients. MN Pharmaceuticals has finalized its efforts that it has started in 2010 to be included in the list of United Nations Global Marketplace (UNGM) and has been approved as one of the licensed suppliers of UN agencies. The UNGM list is used by 21 UN agencies to access licensed suppliers. The competence of MN Pharmaceuticals is recognized by the following UN agencies: • United Nations Population Fund UNFPA • United Nations Children’s Fund – UNICEF • United Nations Office for Project Services – UNOPS In addition, applications were made to become the a licensed supplier of the following UN agencies and we are about to receive the results: • United Naations Development Program UNDP • United Nations Africa Economical CommissionUNECA • United Nations Education, Science and Culture Organization UNESCO • United Nations Purchasing Department – UNPD 43 acesstomedicine Drug Donations to Somali and Van… Our company has donated 233.820 units of drug to a specified hospital in Somali in 2011. Following the earthquake on 23. Oct.2011 in our eastern city Van, MN Pharmaceutical employees started a campaign on 25. Oct.2011 to help our citizens that were trying to survive under hard conditions. Under the organization of T.C. Ministry of Health, General Directorate of Medicines and Pharmaceutics, MN Pharmaceuticals has contributed 9.900 units of drug. We have contributed 510 units of drug to LOSEV in 2011. 44 Patient Rights Adverse effect (Unwanted Side Effects) reporting of MN Pharmaceuticals products are monitored for recording, follow-up and documentation purposes. All patientrights pharmacovigilance activites that have to be performed according to Public Regulations and Guidelines are monitored by procedures described in the regulations. The pharmacovigilance activites and responsibilities of the relative parties are specified in detail in the Regulations on monitoring and evaluation of safety of human medicinal products and the Pharmacovigilance guideline for registration holders of human medicinal products which was put into effect in June 30, 2005. Pharmacovigilance activites are conducted in cooperation with the registration/license holder and Ministry of Health. Reporting Unwanted Adverse Effects to MN Pharmaceutıcals Spontaneous reports: A suspicious adverse effect emerging with the use of one or more human drugs during routine use of a human drug in a patient is recorded in Adverse Effect Reporting Form by the health care provider. In case such a form is not available, it is reported in a written form to any MN Pharmaceuticals personnel. This information is transferred to Product Safety Supervisor or his/her assistant in no more than 2 working days. Adverse effect reports reported to the switchboard operator: The switchboard operator connects the individual who is reporting an adverse effect to Product Safety Supervisor or his/her assistant. If unaccessible, the person’s name and communication data is recorded and he/she is told that the responsible person will get in touch with him/her. Product Safety Supervisor or his/her assistant is immediately informed of the relevant data. Product Safety Supervisor or his/her assistant calls back the person. If the reporting person is a health care professional, Product Safety Supervisor or his/her assistant sends that person the Adverse Effect Reporting Form to be filled. If the reporting person is not one of the health care providers, the contact information of the health care professional responsible for that patient is obtained and he/she is contacted. Adverse Effect Reports Obtained via Medical Representatives: Adverse Effect Reports Obtained via Medical Representatives: Medical representative when informed by the health care professional of adverse effects related to our products gives the Adverse Effect Reporting Form to the health care Professional to be filled in. Filled-in form is transmitted to Product Safety Supervisor or his/her assistant in no more than 2 days. In case the form is unavailable, it is reported in writing. If there are any questions that the health care professional wants to know, sales representative gathers the minimum information required for reporting and the communication data of the health care professional and sends them to the Product Safety Supervisor or his/her assistant in no more than 2 working days. The representative also informs the relevant Medical Manager of the subject. 45 Pharmacovigilance activities: Scientific studies for determination, evaluation, identification and prevention of adverse effects and other possible unwanted effects related to human medical products. patientrights Adverse Effect reported to any MN Pharmaceuticals employee: When information about a serious adverse effect is received from a patient (or from someone close to the patient), the necessary information to fill out the form is obtained from the patient or the person close to him/her. Publication-sourced information: Product Safety Manager or his/her assistant obtains information on the active ingredients used in the products from widely used reference and systematic publication research data bases at least once a week. The studies obtained from these scannings are transmitted to TUFAM by electronic means and by paper prints. In the year of 2011, 12 unwanted effects were reported to MN Pharmaceuticals through the above mentioned channels. 46 labour rights Our Approach to Labour Rights Employment Discrimination and Equal Opportunity Child Labour and Forced Labour Health and Safety Occupational Training 47 Our Approach to Labour Rights companypolicy As MN Pharmaceuticals, we are against forced labour and child labour. To secure occupational health and safety are among our company’s priorities. Our business hours and conditions are in accordance with the law. As a company, our values, rules and standards in these issues are described and shared with all our partners in our code of conduct. It is our principle to work with no compromises in these issues. There are no cases of discrimination, child labour and forced labour and there have been no cases on trial. As MN Pharmaceuticals management, we pledge to • Fulfil our legal responsibilities, • Obtain more objective results by using scientific methods in all recruitment phases, • Not to discriminate our employees based on religion, language, gender, physical disability or age, • Protect confidentiality of private information of our employees, • Value recommendations and ideas of our employees and to implement and honor applicable ones, • Establish and use systems that would enable our employees to improve, work more productively and advance in their careers, • Fairly determine wages and additional benefits of our employees within the resources of the company, • Take necessary measure to protect environment and to promote occupational health and safety. 48 employment Employment As of 31.12.2011, MN Pharmaceuticals has 1326 employees. The list of all employees according to type and divisions is shown below. 800 700 600 500 400 300 200 100 0 General Export Sales and Financial and Business Technical Administrative Management Marketing Affairs Development Operations Blue Collar 7 475 White Collar 39 10 488 34 66 207 49 discriminationandequalopportunity Discrimination and Equal Opportunity MN Pharmaceuticals makes no discrimination for religion, language, race or ethnic origin in its employees or in those applying for a job. The ratio of females among the top management is 44%, and in the mid-level management the ratio is 39%. Mid-Level Manager Top Manager Woman Woman Man %39 Man %44 %61 %56 800 700 600 500 400 300 200 100 0 Financial and General Export Sales and Administrative Business Technical Management Marketing Affairs Development Operations Woman 14 5 115 12 61 179 Man 25 5 373 22 12 503 50 discriminationandequalopportunity Internal Promotion Rates We give importance to designations through internal promotions. We give our employees the first opportunity for new positions. Because in internal promotions, • Promote the morals of the other employees who see that the employee and his performance are evaluated, • Managers obtain more efficient work from employees that have promoted through internal promotions, • Cost of internal promotions are less costly than searching for personnel from outside • In internal promotion system the cost of training is less than the training cost of the newcomer, • Presents more advancement opportunities to the employees in business world. In MN Pharmaceuticals, 75% of the top and mid-level executives are appointed by internal promotions. The objectives of the Employee Proposal System that was initiated in 2010 with the catchphrase “Tell your idea, come one step forward” are to motivate employees to come up with applicable ideas for the benefit of the company, to increase motivation by supporting management, to decrease costs and to enhance client satisfaction by improving service quality. By Proposal System, we create opportunities to all our employees to contribute to duration of the management and show them that their ideas are important for the company. The number of proposals that come to ‘I HAVE AN IDEA’ proposal system has been increasing each day. The statistics until the end of 2011 concerning our project we had started in June 2010 are shown below. We plan to carry the Proposal System onto MN website in 2012. Number of proposals 192 Number of people making Amount of 6800 TL Check the proposals 82 awards Proposals awarded 41 Number of people given 16000 TL Cash receiving rewards 28 Percent of Employees Making Proposals %5,8 Percent of Applicable %21,4 Proposals As of 2011, our female employees’ salaries are 12% more than the male ones’. 51 childlabourandforcedlabour Child Labour and Forced Labour No child is hired in our company and no one is forced to work. As we comply with the rules and regulations in these issues with no compromise, our ethical approach is also described within this context and shared with our partners. Age groups of all employees are show nin the Table below. 40 + 15% 20-30 40% 31-40 45% 52 healthandsafety Health and Safety In the scope of ISO 14001 and OHSAS 18001, we perform Evaluation Meetings at least once a year. In addition, there are two different Occupational Health and Safety Committees in our two plants and these committees composed of 30 people each meet once a month and evaluate the conditions of occupational health and safety issues in our plants. Representatives of upper management meet with the related unit managers and representatives of the employee. 53 ccupationalhealthandsafet Sekerpinar Development Meetings: Active Pharmaceutical Ingredients Plant located in Sekerpinar meetings are held which are open to the public and which contain various hints that can be used in daily life of our employees. These meetings are about the subjects listed below: • Cardiac Health and Hypertension • Fight with Insects • Mysophobia and Wrongs That are Considered Right • Pain and Fatigue Management Methods • Poka Yoke • Chronic Fatigue Synhdrome • Getting Healthy Nutrition in Ramadan • Mouth and Teeth Health • Importance of Water for Health • Forming a Bond With Your Child • Memory Technics Environmental Consciousness and Training Programs MN Pharmaceuticals has prepared brochures based on the current basic subjects to make our employees conscious of Health -Safety and Environment issues. As a whole, brochures on water deprivation, discarded batteries, hazardous wastes, pollution, swine flu, etc. were prepared and by various educational and informative programs planned every year, our employees were motivated to be more conscious on environment safety and occupational health issues. In the scope of the yearly training program in 2011, orientation trainings and requirements for HealthSafety and Environment Management System for those newly hired, trainings for job and responsibilities of the present employees, use of personal protective equipment, rules for vacations, emergency situation management system, fire safety, repair/maintenance, safety in repair/maintenance works, working at high places, cancelling fire detection system, protection from blasts, standard operation procedures were given; hand safety, ergonomics, process, machine, etc. trainings were also given. In 2011, each of our employees (including internal contractors) were given 5.1 hours training on Environment Safety and Occupational Health issues. In MN Pharmaceuticals, a total of 217 contract employees worked in 2011. A total of 217 hours training was given to contract workers on HealthSafety and Environment; the amount per person is 1 hour. In MN Pharmaceuticals an emergency organization was established for being prepared to protect health and safety of the workers and to maintain the continuity of the job in the scope of emergency situations; this included planning and crisis management in case of emergency situations such as natural disasters, fire, explosion, etc. Each year, 2 announced or unannounced drills are made for environmental pollution, emergency situations, fire, evacuation and hazardous waste leakage, etc.and the results of these drills are documented. With all these studies, MN Pharmaceuticals targets to minimize the damage that may occur ing the scope of environmental safety and occupational health by keeping the active and passive teams active in every kind of emergency situation. In 2011 four unannounced drills were performed. 54 occupationaltraining Occupational Training With our trust in our continuous improvement principle, we make training and professional development plans for all our employees in order to increase their knowledge, improve their capabilities and abilities necessary for their jobs. We share the comments of the participants in trainings we have given to develop the personal development and to increase the individual awarenesses with our employees in Rota Magazine. Enviroment, Health and %7,1 The training plans for each year are made by analyzing outcomes Safety of the Performance Management System and by considering training programs required to prepare each employee to a Quality Competency potential position in his/her career. Management Development Systems %27,9 The hour of trainings per person in our institution is 3,51. %52,2 Distribution of the total of training hours is given at graph. Vocational Development A 3-phase, Phases I-II-and III, training period is designed for Medical Representatives to be appointed to the Sales and %12,8 Marketing team. Phase I training which covers hiring and basic training is given in the 4 months following hiring, phase II training which covers development of relationships and sales is given in the 10 months following hiring and Phase III training covers presentation technics and marketing. In addition, the following trainings are given at various times addressed to occupational developments: • Hiring and interviewing techniques-Regional Managers • Coaching and leadership in the pharmaceutical industry – Regional Managers • Marketing for those that are not marketers – Medical Advisors • Innovative product management – Product Managers MN Pharmaceuticals gives importance to personal developments of its employees. In this context, the followiing skills development trainings were programmed in the scope of Manager and Employee Development Projects: Basic Group Sub-Group Trainings Context-based leadership skills Skills Development Leadership Trainings Mentoring skills monitoring study Trainings Modern, New Me Employee development Art of expressing yourself trainings Modern, New Me Medical representative starting course Phase 2 Course Sales and Marketing Phase 3 Course Sales in 1 minute Occupational Presentations abilities Development Analytical method validation Trainings Business Development Pharmacovigilance Dissolution trainingh Ability-based interview technics Human Resources Selection-placement peak Information Technologies Project management Emergency situation trainings Occupational health and Health – Safety and Using the forklift safety trainings Environment Trainings Industrial ergonomics Environment trainings Waste management training Validation trainings Stability trainings Quality Assurance General temperature and hardness Quality Management trainings Systems (GMP) Systems and GMP European Gmp New Annex 11 International inspections directed at Global Pharmaceuticals market 55 environmental Company Policy Resource Consumption Emissions and Waste Energy Efficiency Emission and Waste Materials 56 MN Pharmaceuticals Environment Policy companypolicy As MN Pharmaceuticals top management, we are aware that an environment-friendly, healthy and safe work environment is required. In order prevention of environment pollution, accidents and health deteriorations in MN Pharmaceuticals plants and for continuous developments in these issues, we undertake to: • Comply with all regulatory and other conditions we are responsible for in HealthSafety Environment issues, • Continuously improve the performace by taking precautions to prevent risks that may lead to occupational hazards and occupational accidents, • Protect our natural resources and to decrease their use as much as possible, • Minimize waste production and to support re-cycling, • Use technologies that are most environment-friendly and the safest for occupational health and safety as long as they are applicable technically and commercially, • Inform our employees, suppliers and contractors continuously in health and safety environment issues by effective communications and training activities. Our company determines the environmental and occupational safety impacts in all its actions and takes actions for them; thus acts to provide a harmonious, pretty, clean and healthy environment and future to the world and to the next generations. In MN Pharmaceutical plants which operate with this understanding, ISO 14001 Environment Management System and OHSAS 18001 Occupational Health and Safety Management Systems were installed in the scope of all operations in 2007 and has been operating since. There are two Employee Health and Safety Committees at MN Pharmaceuticals ; Active Pharmaceutical Ingredients Plant and Finished Dosage Form Production Plants. The Committees consisting of a total of 30 employees meet at least once a month. They perform the inspections in their own work and in contracts and suppliers business process. Top management conducts a meeting at least once a year and overviews our policies; certain targets are determined in health -safety environment, primarily environmental and occupational health safety risk evaluation documents within the prepared policies and these are monitored continuously by periodical or annual reports. The set targets are shared with all our employees (including contractors) at the beginning of each year and made sure that these targets are adopted by our employees and (including contractors) in the plants and they are within the system. At the end of the year, evaluation of our targets are again shared with all our employees and their views are obtained. 57 Apart from this, there is a Health -Safety Environment Management in our companypolicy company; with their team of 13 people they ensure that Health -Safety Environment System is executed, the valid national and international regulatory rules are followed and applied. In addition to this group, there is a team of 30 trained personnel from each unit or location. This team works in collaboration with Health Safety Environment Management in all health –safety environmental issues. Within this scope, in the internal inspection plan which is performed annually, our existing management systems were monitored 28 times in 2011 by our expert team with ISO 14001 and OHSAS 18001 Internal Inspector and Regulations Training certificate. Furthermore, 5 companies from our suppliers and contractors were also inspected in 2011.. Our purpose here is to contribute to the development of the related firms and to increase environment-sensitivity of the companies we do business with. In the scope of Environment and Occupational Health Management System, in MN Pharmaceuticals, there are a total of 140 environment risk (impact) evaluations in the scope of location, 130 health-safety risk evaluation and 142 machine risk evaluation documents in all business processes starting from receiving of the materials into MN plants to marketing the finished product. In addition, there are risk evaluation reports related to emergency situations and hazardous chemical substances and support is received from an experienced consulting firm for this service. When a change has occured in our plants, as with all risk evaluations, risk reports concerning emergency situations and hazardous chemicals are updated by the related consulting firm. The above mentioned risk evaluations are monitored by following measurement documents, integrated waste management documents and emergency situation documents. They are evaluated by periodical and annual HealthSafety Environment performance reports and information is given to the top management related to the management system performance. During these monitorings, errors detected in internal or external inspections are documented by deviation documents, corrective preventive/action documents and management documents and these are followed up and recorded. MN Pharmaceuticals functions to ISO14001 Environment Management System. Thus, as in the first item of management system requirements and as we have guaranteed in our Environment Policy, there has been no non-compliance to any environmental regulation or rule and we have not received any fines or sanctions in this issue. Environmental rules and regulations are closely monitored. As MN Pharmaceuticals, we have prepared a project for re-cycling of water in the context of decreasing the total use of natural resources and all feasibility studies were conducted in 2011. We plan to complete the feasibility studies in 2012 and perform the project which has been approved. In 2011 our waste waters were re-grouped in our plants and the existing four waste water treatment installations more modernized and the old technology ones were discarded; thus our use of natural resources was decreased. 58 companypolicy Environment Investments and Compliance As MN Pharmaceuticals, our mission is to serve national and international community to provide a healthier and happier life. Therefore, not just by the products we produce but also by choosing environment-friendly technologies in our productive activities and by using the natural resources more efficiently, we give emphasis to preservation of environment and human health and to maintain a continuous environment management which comply with the regulations. In this context, new equipments purchased for our plants, new activities performed, new products produced and new administrations administered are monitored by change control and management systems and within this system, environmental and health impacts of all these changes are evaluated by Health -Safety Environment Management unit. None of the activites that do not comply with Health-Safety Environment regulations can be performed in MN Pharmaceuticals. 59 resourceconsumption Resource Consumption As MN Pharmaceuticals, the primary sources of energy that we consume in our plants are electricity and natural gas. At the end of 2011, consumption of recycled energy was supported by using renewable energy in the electricity issue and use of renewable energy consumption will be continued in 2012. As a result of our activities, our electricity and natural gas consumption in 2010 and 2011are given in the Table below. Although there was an increase in our production volume in 2011, the rate of increase in our electricity consumption was only 1.1%. When consumption of electricity per Kg-product or Unit-product is considered, there was a 32% rate of decrease in the energy consumed compared to 2010. In 2011, although there was an increase in production volume, the rate of increase in consumption of natural gas was only 17%. When consumption of natural gas per Kg-product or Unit-product is considered, there was a 25% rate of decrease compared to 2010. In 2011, we have achieved a decrease in consumption of natural resources more than we had anticipated and thus showed a performance over our targets. This decrease is the result of changes in some production methods, changes in production programs and various environmental studies such as trainings on electricity consumption and informative brochures prepared for employees (including contractors). We have planned to hold consumption of energy consumption, from our natural resources, per kg or per unit at the same level in 2012. 2010 2011 Evaluation Total electricity 32.779.548 34.775.705 %1.1 consumption KWh KWh Total natural 40.472.281 47.398.494 %17.0 gas consumption KWh KWh Electricity consumed per %32 Kgunit or unitproduct 49.03 KWh 33.31 KWh Natural gas consumed per 75.39 KWh 56.40 KWh %25 Kg-unit or unitproduct 60 resourceconsumption Total water consumption according to source MN Pharmaceuticals withdraws water from two different sources: city water and well water. In 2011 and 2012 water consumption is presented below according to the source. When 2011 water consumption is considered, although there is an increase in the total amount of water used, there is a 23% decrease in the amount of water used per kg or per unit-product. This decrease is the result of changes done on some production methods and various environmental studies such as trainings on water consumption and informative brochures prepared for employees (including contractors). In MN Pharmaceuticals production plants, annual targets are set in the scope of ISO 14001 Environment Management System and OHSAS 18001 Health and Safety Management System and the programs related to these targets are specified. In this context, our feasibility studies on our projects related to savings on water consumption and recycling of water in 2011 are completed, technical aspects of the subject are prepared, required bids are received and top management approval is obtained. In 2012, our target is to activate the related project and regain 5% of the water consumed. In addition, a second project that has started in 2011 and that will be completed in 2012 is to use the rain water in the garden irrigation systems; thus this value will be increased to 7%. 2010 2011 Evaluation Total water consumption 136.371 m3 172.65 m3 %26 Water consumption per 0,5113 m3 0,3914 m3 %23 Kg-unit product Sources that are effected from our water sources mentioned above are Istanbul Water and Sewage Works (ISKI), lake and dam reserves, Kocaeli Water Sewage Works (ISU) reserves and water wells located in our plants. In 2011, our target ‘to decrease energy consumption of 2011 below the levels of 2010’ which was one of our UN Global Compact Implementation Targets, was accomplished by savings on electricity and natural gas consumption per unit. 61 emissionsandwaste Emission and Wastes The most important source of green house gasses is fuel oil consumption. Although MN Pharmaceuticals had been using LPG and fuel oil in its plant, it was altered to natural gas that is more environment-friendly. Hence, the production of greenhouse gas emissions was reduced. Being aware of the effect that greenhouse emissions have on earth, MN Pharmaceuticals has a principle of not purchasing any materials that would cause greenhouse gas emissions. Furthermore, there are no production processes that involve ozone-consuming chemicals in our plants. In MN Pharmaceuticals, emissions produced by our plants are monitored according to legal regulations and measurements are taken by accredited institutions and reported. Purification of the existing chimneys in our plants is achieved by Active Charcoal Purification System. Although the emission range values are well below the limits, as a result of our program and activities specified within the scope of decreasing the hazardous wastes which is anmong our targets for the year of 2011, we have added 3 Scrubber systems for pre-purification to the chimneys with existing Active Charcoal Purification Systems for decreasing the emission values further. This addition will decrease the frequency of the active charcoal change and thus production of hazardous waste at the source. This addition done in spite of the measurements were well below the limits, decresed the emission formation from our plants. MN Pharmaceuticals discharged 115 m³/day of water into waste water canals of Istanbul Water and Sewage Works (ISKI) and Kocaeli Water and Sewage Works (ISU). There is no discharge directly to environment. Our hazardous waste is collected according to the current regulations and transported to licensed facilities for recycling or disposal. Our company is continuing its studies to decrease the hazardous wastes and to increase the rate of re-cycled hazardous wastes by changing some applications and by using environment-friendly technologies. MN Pharmaceuticals has decreased the amount of hazardous waste per unit or per kg of product by 5% as a result of company wide environmental initiatives performed in 2011 compared to 2010; thus it has achieved its environment management system targets and has decreased its negative impacts on the environment. 62 emissionsandwaste In 2010, while 20% of the produced total hazardous waste is returned to the system as re-cycled, in 2011 this rate has increased to 37%. Since our company has guaranteed to minimize the production of hazardous wastes and support re-cycling within the scope of Health Safety Environment policy, we have decreased the amount of hazardous wastes produced per kg or unit of product by 5% and increased the amount that is sent for re-cycling of this hazardous waste by 17% in 2011. 2010 2011 Evaluation Total amount of wastes 748,36 ton 957,52 ton %27 Amount of hazardous maste per 1,39 kg 1,32 kg %5 Kg-box of product Total amount of re-cycled 1,142 kg 1,967 kg %72 hazardous waste As a result of environmental management at MN Pharmaceuticals there have not been any environmentally significant spills or leakages at our plants in 2011. 63 energyefficiency Energy Efficiency As a result of our studies, although there was an increse in production volume, when energy consumption per kg or unit of product is considered in 2011, 32% less energy was consumed compared to 2010. When natural gas consumption per kg or unit of product is considered, there was a decrease of 25% compared to 2010. In 2011, by achieving more savings in natural resources than targeted for, we have contributed to preservation of environment by using environment-friendly technologies and production methods. At the end of 2011, re-newable energy consumption was supported by using totally re-cycled energy in electricity; renewable energy use will be continued in 2012. In 2012, among our natural resource consumptions, we plan to maintain energy consumption at the same levels. UN Global Compact Progression Targets The sources of the recyling waters of the 2011 project related to recycling and re-use of the waste waters produced by MN Pharmaaceuticals were specified, feasibility studies related to recycling were completed, technical aaspects of the subject were prepared, necessary bids were obtained, presented for top management’s approval and the project was approved by top management in 2011. In 2012, setting up of the related project and regaining 5% of the used water is targeted. Furthermore, a second project started in 2011 and to be finalized in 2012 concerning use of rain water in garden irrigation system will enable a 7% decrease in consumption of natural resources. 64 missionsandwastematerial Emission and Waste Materials MN Pharmaceuticals’ purpose is to serve people to provide a healthier and happier life. Therefore, it prefers environment-friendly technologies not just in the products produced but also in its production plants and continues its environmental studies by using the natural resources more efficiently, producing minimum manufacture-based wastes at the source and continuously improving the management system. During these studies, MN Pharmaceuticals specifies targets every year and races with itself in producting environment-freindly products. As MN Pharmaceuticals, our purpose is to serve the human health both in our country and abroad by new developed products. In our research and development studies conducted by 60 experts in Research and Development team and a total of 850 technical staff, we prefer not just products with high quality but also production methods that use chemicals that are less harmful to environment, production methods that use less natural resources, we do research on production methods that yield less hazardous materials (to obtain waste that can be recycled instead of disposed) and we work on developing production methods that have the least impac on human health. MN Phrmaceuticals, with its trained staff in their fields, has targeted to be the leader firm in the sector not just by the wide range of products in its product portfolio but also by its environment-friendly studies in manufacturing methods and continues its studies in this direction. Environment-friendly “Imatinib Base” Production Method In the scope of developing environment-friendly production methods, we have been doing studies since 2010 on Imatinib base which is not produced in Turkey; MN Pharmaceuticals developed a new production method which is more sensitive to the environment and humans that is different than the known method of the production which is described in its current patent. In the developed method, instead of the water-soluble organic solvent that is used in the known production method of Imatinib base, water is used in production. Thus, a method that protects the health of the staff during production process, that decreases hazardous waste formation and that prevents environmental impacts which is produced during disposal of the hazardous waste is developed. We applied for patent to Turkish Patent Institute and PCT (Patent Cooperation Treaty) in 2010 and USA in 2011. Our patent application is accepted by US Patent and Trademark Office (USPTO) . We expect its acceptance in 2012 by Turkish Patent Institute. This study shows the value we place on humans by the quality of the product we produce or plan to produce and also our sensitivity to research and develop an environment-friendly production method. 65 missionsandwastematerial Consequently, this production method developed, compared to the previous production methods, is; • More applicable industrially, • More efficient, • Less costly, • Yields high quality products, • More human health sensitive in regard of the diluent used, • More environment-friendly and, • Uses less natural resources. Imatinib base thus obtained can be converted to other salts and particularly to imatinib mesylate salt that is used in pharmaceutics and then by developing formulations, as a drug preparation in improving human health. New equipments purchased for MN Pharmaceutical plants, new studies performed, new produced products, new applications are monitored by Change Control and Management systems and health -safety environmental impacts of all these changes within the system are evaluated by Health -Safety Environment unit. No application which does not comply with Health Safety Environment System can not be put into practice in MN Pharmacauticals. Every change that is planned is examined for its compliance with legal regulations and management system standards and for every procedure, the required legal applications are made prior to the change. MN Pharmaceuticals works in collaboration with CEVKO company approved by Ministry of Environment and Municipality for collection and re-cycling of the packaging materials of its sold products and performs this responsibility every year. In addition, our institution has ISO 14001 Environment Management System documents for our production areas since 2007. As stated in our policy, recycling is performed for our products marketed as well as for the packaging materials used in our production areas every year. About 60% of the amount of our total waste is sent for recycling. 66 anti corruption Company Policy: Code of Conduct Ethical Advertising and Marketing Audits 67 ompanypolicy:codeofconduc Company Policy: Code of Conduct MN Pharmaceuticals has prepared the Code of Conduct that includes its ethical decisions and actions; the purposes are to share the company values and missions with its stakeholders, to state its ethical stance clearly and clarify its expectations from its stakeholders. The Code of Conduct is based on the basic principle of “our values are our future…”. With this principle, we undertake to obey the rules and regulations, to be sensitive to community problems, to respect human and labour rights, to act responsibly to the environment, to work harmoniously with our stakeholders emphasizing that they are important for us and interact with them. Our Code of Conduct also explains our internal discipline and modern identity as well as our values which are very important for us since the foundation of our company. In the context of the above explanations, we have taken the necessary actions for adoptation and assimilation of our Code of Conduct and to act accordingly for all our employees and suppliers. MN Pharmaceuticals stands up for and a follower of the Code of Conduct. In 2011, new hired 154 medical representatives were trained in ‘Human Pharmaceutical Drugs Introduction Regulations’ for ethics promotion and to work according to marketing principles. 68 thicaladvertisingandmarketin Ethical Promotion and Marketing MN Pharmaceuticals conducts its product advertisements and marketing activities according to Ethical Criteria for Medicinal Drug Promotion published by World Health Organization. Another source that is observed in our product promotion activities is Pharmaceutical Industry Association of Turkey (TISD) Guideline for Promotion of Medicinal Products. However, promotion studies of MN Pharmaceuticals to the community and health professionals are performed according to Regulations on Human Medicinal Promotion Activities published by the Ministry of Health in the Official Gazzette no.28037 dated 08.26. 2011 and TISD Guideline for Promotion of Medicinal Products dated 07.24.2006. The regulation defines promotion activities as ‘all reminding, informative activities to promote obtaining, selling, prescribing and using of the human medicinal product that is conducted by the license or registration holder of the product; in this context, the company performs activities through its medical representatives, gives ads on the visual/audial press, medical and professional magazines, makes announcements directly by mail or on the internet, uses visual/audial media such as films, slides, electronic media, conducts scientific and training meetings, exhibitions and similar activities and performs reminder promotion activites such as free product samples and publications’. In order to have our field force work according to the above mentioned ethical marketing principles, 400 medical representatives were given training 16 hours/person in our reporting period in 2011. Our company has no penalties concerning non-compliance to the regulations. Our Drug Promotion Policy Promotion studies of MN Pharmaceuticals to health professionals are performed according to Regulation on Human Medicinal Products Promotion Activities published by the Ministry of Health in the Official Gazzette no. 28037 dated 08.26.2011. The purpose of this Regulation is to specify the rules to be obeyed in promoting these products so the human medicinal products will be used rationally. 69 thicaladvertisingandmarketin When promoting MN Pharmaceutical products to the community in accordance with the regulations, I undertake that • Will explain the properties of the product in an informative, true to the scientific facts and a clear way, • Will not state facts in a definite way unless they are based on a study with a sufficient sample size, detailed research and with sound scientific facts, • Will not give misleading, exagerated or unproven information that may lead to unnecessary use and unexpected risky conditions, • Will not claim that the results of using the product is guaranteed, has no side effects or it has equivalent or better effects than another treatment or medicinal product, • Will not suggest that if the person does not use the product his/her health will be effected, • Will not insinuate that the medicinal product is a food, cosmetic or another product for fast moving consumer good, • Will not claim to be healing by inappropriate, misleading statements that create panic, • Will not do misleading comparisons by using the pharmacological effects as meaning efficacy, • Will not cause a patient to mis-diagnose a condition by himself by defining a case history or explaining it in detail. Furthermore, within the context of our Drug Promotion Policy,we undertake that • While promoting our products to health professionels, we will not accept or offer any cash or any financial advantages , • Any citations, tables or other visual materials taken from medical journals or other scientific publications will be used true to the originals and sources will be stated correctly, • People other than presenting scientific presentations such as announcements, publications or posters and those participating in meetings for educational purposes will not be financially supported. 70 audits Audits Our company is audited by financially independent auditing firms. Compliance of the paid taxes to regulations and financial data are audited in the scope of International Financial Reporting Standards. In addition, our company has internal auditing procedures. Sales department and suppliers are checked periodically. In our purchasing unit, there is a rule that for each purchase, 3 bids are taken for evaluation as a precaution. Furthermore, we have system controls. Performing a procedure from beginning to end by the same person is limited by various authorizations; each unit completes the part that is related to its field of expertise and than turns it over to the other unit. Approval and authorizations are described separately for various levels and each unit can only function within its authority and limits. 71 UNGC progression targets Corporate Responsibility Human Rights Management Protection of Labour Rights Environmental Management 72 ungcprogressiontargets Global Compact Progression Targets Corporate Responsibility 1. In the context of MN Pharmaceuticals sustainable development strategy, to develop a corporate social responsibility project addressed primarily to one of the stakeholder groups and perform it , 2. To conduct a series of activities for awareness to cancer, 3. Continue to give support to the victims of Van earthquake, Human Rights Management 4. In order to increase the accessibility of MN Pharmaceuticals by communities, to increase the number of UN organizations that we are a legal supplier of 5. To increase the percentage of woman employees in MN Pharmaceuticals, 6. To train the company managers in Human Rights Management, 7. To receive the ‘Kariyer.Net İnsana Saygı’ (Career Net Respect to Humans) award, Protection of Labour Rights 8. To enable our Human Resources functions (annual vacation, staff request, training request, overtime planning and performing) on the MN website as self-service and performing the form flow and follow-up on the internet, 9. To continue development meetings that are open to staff participation, Environmental Management 10. To take concrete steps in the direction to decreasing the amount of our hazardous wastes, 11. To make concrete efforts to re-cycling and re-use of the waste water produced by MN Pharmaceuticals plants, 12. The consumption of the renewable energy at the end of 2011 is supported and consumption of renewable energy will be continued in 2012. In 2012, our energy consumption, from the natural resources, is planned to be at the same level. 73 Contact Us Contact person for all questions and information concerning this report: Dilek Durmaz Göleli, Pharm.Corporate Affairs Manager Dilek.DurmazGoleli@mn.com.tr General Management contactus Pak İş Merkezi, Prof. Dr. Bülent Tarcan Sok. 5/1 34349 Gayrettepe / İSTANBUL Tel: (212) 337 3800 Faks: (212) 337 3801 info@mn.com.tr API Production Plants Cumhuriyet Mah. İsmet İnönü Cad. 12. Sok. No: 30 41480 Şekerpınar-Çayırova / KOCAELİ Tel: (0262) 658 0828 Faks: (0262) 658 08 38 Drug Manufacturing Plants Çoban Çeşme Mah. Sanayi Cad. 13 34196 Yenibosna / İSTANBUL Tel: (0212) 454 7600 Faks: (0212) 454 7696 info@mn.com.tr Ankara Representative Sezenler Sok. No: 10 D:15 Sıhhiye / ANKARA Tel: (0312) 231 2960 Faks: (0312) 231 1828 74 LEGAL NOTICE Communication on Progress 2011 Report was prepared in the framework of United Nations Global Compact that was signed by MN Pharmaceuticals on 26.5.2010. This report was prepared to inform our stakeholders and cannot be taken as a basis for any investment decision. It is believed that all information and data in the report are correct and reliable. Nevertheless, MN Pharmaceuticals does not make any commitment about the validity of data provided in the report. MN Pharmaceuticals or its board of directors, employees or consultants cannot be held responsible for any damages that may incur directly or indirectly due to any information conveyed in this report. This report was prepared with the support of ALP Sustainability Management Consultancy www.alpsurdurulebilirlik.com www.alpsustainability.com
