Access Bank Plc Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2011 Awarded Sustainable Bank of the Year Award, Middle East and Africa Sustainable banking for a sustainable future Sustainability is the cornerstone of our business philosophy. Only by delivering social, economic and environmental value today, can we create Shareholder value for tomorrow. Contents Overview Employees 39 Energy Consumption Overview 01 A  bout this Report 30 Key Issues in the 39 Water Usage 02 Executive Summary Marketplace 39 Business Transport 04 Chairman’s Statement 30 Building a High40 Paper and Materials Performance Workforce 05 G  roup Managing Director/ 40 Environmental, Social and Chief Executive Officer’s 30 Diversity and Human Rights Corporate Governance Statement 32 Employee Engagement Integration 06 Our Business at a Glance 32 E mployee Satisfaction 40 E&S Issues in Investment 09 Financial Highlights and Motivation and Risk Management 10 O  ur Approach to 32 Participation Customers Sustainability 33 Satisfaction Index Supply Chain 34 C ore Competence 42 Key Objectives and Goals – Areas of Concern Customers 34 Summary of Comments 22 K  ey Issues in the Communities Marketplace 34 S taff Attrition: January – December 2011 44 Key Issues in the Marketplace 22 O  ur Customers 35 B enefits to Full-Time 44 The Fight Against AIDS, 23 Customer Ombudsman Employees TB and Malaria in 24 C  ustomer Satisfaction 35 Female Empowerment Sub-Saharan Africa Survey 2011 45 Health Education in Employees 35 Key Activities 25 P roject 5-Star Performance the Workplace Improvement Scheme 48 Employee Volunteering 27 Customer Service Week Environment 50 Community Investment Data 28 C  ommunications and 36 Our Environment Impact Promotions 36 Climate Change 29 Financial Inclusion Other Information 37 Key Issues in the Marketplace 29 Fighting Corruption 55 GRI Data Table 38 Sustainable Finance 59 Assurance Statement and Commentary 62 Corporate Directory Environment About this Report 22 30 The Access Bank Group 2011 Page Page Sustainability Report presents a balanced analysis of our sustainability performance strategy in relation to issues that are relevant and material to the Group and to our Stakeholders. Our last report covered the period from 1 January, 2010 to 31 December, 2010. This Report is our fourth and sets out Customers Employees our sustainability performance for the financial year January to December Supply Chain 2011. Facts and figures refer to the Group unless indicated otherwise. Financial data is presented in Naira. This year’s report builds on the achievements of last year’s by providing comprehensive views from our Stakeholders. In addition, we have set out our involvement in the community using the London Benchmarking Group 36 (LBG) model, which enables us to Page articulate the Bank’s contribution to community development, by measuring cash, in kind and time. Communities In developing this report, we have also adopted relevant international standards and guidelines such as the AA1000 Assurance Standards and the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) G3 Environment Sustainability Reporting Guidelines – 44 see www.globalreporting.org. Page A GRI context index is provided on page 55 and details of our performance, in line with the GRI financial sector supplement, are available on our website – Other Information www.accessbankplc.com/csr. The Assurance for the Access Bank Group 2011 Sustainability Report was Communities 42 provided by Corporate Citizenship, a Page leading independent third party assurer of corporate responsibility reports. The assurance process was carried out in accordance with the AA1000 Assurance Standard and through on-site visits and interview sessions with several managers and heads of Strategic Business Units around the Group. Supply Chain Access Bank Plc Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2011 01 Executive Summary Our sustainability journey Millennium Development Goals (MDGs). We believe that our economic performance is closely related to our environmental has moved out of the footprints and people values. exploratory phase into the • Environmental benefits – Protecting the environment is a top priority at Access Bank. We are committed to conducting our leadership phase to a point business in an environmentally friendly manner. To this end, we have upgraded our environmental and social (E&S) risk where we are encouraging management practices to address key environmental and the wider African financial social issues that are specific to the processes and activities of our business. industry to ensure societal We are continually advancing on the ‘sustainability journey’. sustainability. Through increased awareness and compliance, we have reached a higher level of sustainable banking. We understand that big challenges require big solutions, and that no single community, or organisation can do it alone. That is why we continually Creating a successful and sustainable business is of great maximise our influence to drive down costs, increase our importance to the Bank and goes beyond financial performance. accountability, and bring ourselves closer to the customer. Our commitment to building a sustainable business is Our sustainability journey has moved out of the exploratory demonstrated through our emphasis not just on what we phase into the leadership phase to a point where we are achieve but on how we achieve it. encouraging the wider African financial industry to ensure societal sustainability. As an indigenous African organisation competing locally and globally, we are concerned about our future and about the We support ongoing reforms and improvement to the financial impact of our business either directly through our own activities system and lead by example through continued prudent risk or indirectly, through the business activities of our clients. management and capital allocation decision-making while also Therefore, we consistently make efforts to ensure sustainability acting as a strong advocate for tested methods to encourage is part of the mainstream of our business operations and systemic stability, accountability, transparency and responsibility. decision-making process. Our 2011 Sustainability Report discloses our sustainability Engaging Stakeholders In March 2011, Access Bank organised an internal capacity efforts in the year, the areas requiring improvement, and our building workshop for staff to increase knowledge of plans going forward. We are committed to continue meeting Environmental & Social Risk Management and positively the needs of the present without compromising the ability of influence the industry by setting the pace for staff training future generations to meet their own needs. in sustainable banking. In addition, an external workshop for Nigerian financial institutions created awareness of Corporate philosophy environmental and social issues. This was done in partnership To this end, the concept of sustainability has influenced our with development finance institutions such as International corporate philosophy and is a critical part of our corporate DNA. Development Bank of the Netherlands (FMO), International Our values underpin our strategic approach to sustainability. Finance Corporation (IFC); African Development Bank (AfDB) and As a leading financial services provider in Nigeria, Access Bank Proparco. Continuing these efforts, in September 2011, Access consistently enhances its ethical standards and balances social, Bank organised an extensive Stakeholder programme entitled economic, and environmental imperatives in order to address The Nigeria Sustainable Finance Week, which brought together the concerns and expectations of all our Stakeholders. key Stakeholders within the local and international community • Social benefits – The Bank actively seeks ways to create and provided a platform for training, exchange of ideas and positive social change. We therefore create opportunities progressive partnerships on sustainable finance. This event for people while creating opportunities for our business. climaxed with the CEO Roundtable at which the CEOs of banks Our efforts in this regard include addressing poverty, operating in Nigeria, through the Bankers Committee, education, health, human rights, arts and culture. We seek established the Strategic Sustainability Working Group (SSWG) to create long-term economic and social benefits from our with responsibility for drafting the Nigerian Sustainable Banking projects and presence. Principles. The SSWG reports to Access Bank’s Group Managing • Economic benefits – We appreciate that we are in business to Director/CEO given his role as the Chairman, sub-committee on maximise Shareholder value while considering the social and Economic Development and Sustainability. environmental impact of every aspect of our operations. Our Access Bank serves as the Secretariat for SSWG and, by contributions to economic development allow us to reduce October 2011, all CEOs of Nigerian banks had signed the barriers to development in the communities where we operate joint commitment statement on the Nigerian Sustainable and are consistent with the objectives of the United Nations Banking Principles. Access Bank Plc Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2011 02 Overview Financial inclusion Sustainability is important to the success of our business and has influenced our strategy as an organisation. It has further enabled the Bank to support global efforts at addressing extreme poverty through the development of products and services aimed at financial inclusion. Given that a large number of people are still either underbanked or unbanked, there is a significantly low level of financial literacy and poor access to information is apparent. To this end, Access Bank is committed to the goal of establishing series of products and services that encourages savings from the cradle to adulthood. We passionately believe that when it comes to a child’s education, knowing how to manage money is as essential as maths or science. Recognising this, the Bank’s strategy on financial inclusion led to the launch of Access Bank Early Savers account in 2011. Targeted at children aged 9 years or below, this product provides a solution to financial exclusion by encouraging savings, and promoting financial understanding and literacy. At Access Bank, we are fully aware that sustainability is transforming the business world in the 21st century. We have therefore further aligned our expertise, talent and business goals with our sustainability agenda in order to achieve greater social, economic and environmental value. The integration of Intercontinental Bank into Access Bank gives us a much broader platform for demonstrating our commitment to sustainable banking. Peer educator talking to students during the Bank’s HIV/AIDS School Education Programme Tree Planting during the launch of the Bank’s 2011 Going Green, Beyond Words Initiative Access Bank’s Peer Educators Access Bank Plc Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2011 03 Chairman’s Statement At Access Bank Plc, Sustainability is key to operating our business • Financial sector workshops: To transfer this work into the in a way that helps our customers succeed financially while community, we partnered development finance institutions creating long-term economic growth and a better quality of life in a workshop that enhanced awareness among the Nigerian for the communities we serve. It’s a vision that guides every financial sector about the importance of incorporating decision we make. environmental and social considerations into their investment and risk management decision-making. Our sustainability agenda therefore has influenced our growth strategy and the way we conduct our business. We grow our • Nigeria Sustainable Finance Week: Initiated by Access Bank, business by creating value for our customers, employees, this event led to the signing of a Joint Commitment Statement communities and strengthening the financial system. on Nigeria Sustainable Banking Principles by the CEOs of Nigerian banks. This effort, supported by the Central Bank It is an honour to lead Access Bank into a future that builds of Nigeria (CBN) and other regulators, has prioritised upon a tradition of doing business in a safe, environmentally sustainability in the agenda of the Nigerian financial sector. sound and socially responsible manner. These are really exciting times for me, the investors, the customers, employees and other The fact that this and all the other pioneering work detailed in Access Bank Stakeholders. The merger with Intercontinental this report has been recognised through a number of awards – Bank has positioned us among the Big 4 financial institutions most notably, the FT/IFC Sustainable Bank of the Year Award in Nigeria. With a combined turnover of N138,949,414,000, (Africa and Middle East), BITC Big Tick Award, World Finance 7,051 employees, 310 branches and serving an estimated ESG Award, and Ecofest Environmental Award – may come as 5 million customers, we are a significant business by the icing on the cake for the many employees whose efforts any standard. contribute to our sustainability programme. Sustainability in the mainstream Values and principles Sustainability is at the heart of this growth and has a significant But this work is about more than just awards. It’s about ensuring influence on the review of the Bank’s corporate philosophy. that we are responding to Stakeholder concerns about our key With that in mind, I am delighted to say that this report shows social and environmental impacts, it’s about ensuring the Bank’s how the Bank is making steady progress with regard to social, values and principles continually underpin our business activities, economic and environmental responsibilities. The continuing and it’s about moving further towards the ultimate goal of process of making sustainability a mainstream component of sustainable development. our business has also positively impacted the financial sector, Celebrating achievements, sharing best practices and by supporting industry growth. acknowledging shortcomings is important for our business. Since our last report, we have continued to strengthen We welcome you to our 2011 Sustainability Report and we our sustainability initiatives through dedicated efforts, look forward to your candid feedback. innovative programmes and leadership in business practice and community investment. Highlights from 2011 include: • Staff workshops: To ensure seamless mainstreaming of sustainability into our organisation, we conducted a series Gbenga Oyebode, MFR of capacity building workshops for staff. The first in the series Chairman, Access Bank Plc was for all staff in the Group office, followed by another for employees at the Bank’s banking subsidiaries. In 2011, the Bank’s Environmental and Social Risk Management training focused on teaching selected staff about the dynamics of the Equator Principles as well as Environmental & Social (E&S) risks. It also showed them how to use the Bank’s finance toolkits when screening lending projects. Access Bank Plc Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2011 04 Chief As a driver of economic Overview Executive’s growth, we understand the Statement role that the financial sector plays in modern society and development At Access Bank, we are poised to positively impact societies provision of capital which drives infrastructure development, through the jobs we create, the revenues we generate, the creates jobs, and enables companies and individuals to purchase impact of our social investments and the way we engage and goods and do business every day. One of the most profound work with various Stakeholders. impacts we can have in Nigeria, and indeed Africa, can be to contribute to a prosperous economy. This does not, however, The year under review was one of growth for the Bank and mean economic growth at any cost. our continued emphasis has been on sustainable banking, which underpins our growth strategy. We therefore drive our We intend to drive profitable, ethical economic growth that is operational and economic performance in a way that values also environmentally responsible and socially relevant. We will be our customers and our employees, upholds the financial system, a force for good in all that we do. We will lead the way in Africa and delivers long-term benefits to our host communities. by consistently applying international best practices or, where Strategically, the merger with Intercontinental Bank supports we need to, having the courage to pioneer new standards. this growth strategy by providing the profile, size, market share and reach to attain Access Bank’s objectives and ambitions. Simultaneously, we are working to increase our services and infrastructure to provide for long-term growth. These growth opportunities can provide significant benefits to communities Economic growth in terms of increased employment and local economic Our growth strategy recognises the powerful economic growth development. We recognise that growth can result in that is happening in Nigeria and across Africa despite the environmental and social impacts and we are addressing inclement conditions in the advanced economies. And we potential impacts during evaluations of our projects. remain convinced that these economies will continue to seek improved access to financial and infrastructural development The Bank has over the years consistently demonstrated a sincere across a number of sectors in Africa for a long time to come. commitment to sustainability principles across its various This is the opportunity we see and the responsibility we embrace operations and its core business functions and sees sustainability in our bid to help millions of Africans unleash their potential. as integral to the Bank’s strategic business objectives. We have continued to respond to global economic challenges. We have developed an ambitious strategy and implementation To this end, as part of our social responsibility, environmental plan for the year ahead. We will continue to develop and take stewardship, and national foresight, Access Bank regularly to market innovative products to reach more of the previously partners with organisations to mobilise strategic financial unbanked and open capital flows where our infrastructure support in the Arts and in Education, Environment, Health and development priorities need it most. Sports. To take just one example, the Nigerian NGO Idea Builders As sustainability continues to rise in importance as a critical Initiative is our partner in our Going Green; Beyond Words global business agenda, Access Bank is committed to the tree-planting project. We have also partnered with Friends of continued mainstreaming of sustainability into our business. Africa to support the fight against AIDS, TB and malaria through We envision an organisation that will be here decades from education, multi-sectoral advocacy and documentation. now. Sustainability is what drives us. It is our commitment to customers as well as our employees. It is the responsibility we Global stewardship have to the communities we live in and the planet we live on. We are taking action across all our business operations to improve our global stewardship. We are focused on the areas where we Leading financial institutions such as ours recognise sustainable have the most impact, including governance and ethics, customer development as a source of investment value. During the year relationships, employee standards, environmental performance under review, Access Bank has continued to underline the and sustainable products and services. We are committed to using importance of its corporate social responsibility agenda as one innovation and sensible environmental steps to grow our business of its main principles. As part of the Bank’s determination to and minimise our impact on the environment. support initiatives that will engender a sustainable economy and promote a greener environment, Access Bank in 2011 convened This report sets out what sustainability means to Access Bank in the first ever Nigeria Sustainable Finance Week under the theme more detail and looks at some of the work we are doing, ranging Moving Frontiers – Sustainable Finance. This initiative was in from the way we do business with our customers, to the work collaboration with the United Nations Environment Programme we do to help communities prosper. While I am proud of our Finance Initiative (UNEP FI) and FMO, with the aim of educating achievements to date, I believe that our greatest victories are still Stakeholders in the Nigerian financial sector about opportunities ahead of us. We know that it is going to take a lot of work from in sustainable finance. The first of its kind in Africa, the event was a lot of extremely dedicated people to make the changes our a major milestone for the Nigerian banking sector. Access Bank world needs to make, but we look forward to being a part of this in this regard led other Nigerian Banks in recording a major feat change. We hope to use our experience and resources to make in its bid to incorporate responsible business practice and a better world for the future, and to experience the satisfaction sustainability considerations into the sector’s operations. of bringing this about. Business expansion Furthermore, in response to increased global demand for our services, we are actively pursuing business expansion. The Bank’s decision to acquire Intercontinental Bank was informed by a vision to become Africa’s most respected bank. This vision is our raison d’être. We believe that banks have a unique role in, Aigboje Aig-Imoukhuede if not a responsibility to, society in addition to our duty to help Group Managing Director/Chief Executive Officer, Access Bank Plc grow local communities and the real economy through the Access Bank Plc Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2011 05 Our Business The Bank was incorporated in February 1989 as a privately owned financial institution and commenced banking operations at a Glance in May 1989. It was subsequently listed on the Nigerian Stock Exchange in 1998. The Bank’s Over the Counter (OTC) Global Depository Receipts (GDRs) are traded on the London Stock Exchange. Comprehensive services The Bank is licensed to carry out international banking services and provides a comprehensive range of financial services. The key business segments of the Bank are: Institutional Banking, Commercial and Consumer Banking, Investment Banking Access Bank Plc is a full and Private Banking. The key customer segments include: Telecommunications, Beverages, Manufacturing, Construction, service commercial bank Oil & Gas, Parastatals, High Net Worth Individuals and Middle with headquarters in Nigeria Income Professionals. We take pride in our ability to add value to clients, leveraging and operations across our unique value proposition to provide innovative and proactive Sub-Saharan Africa – solutions across entire economic value chains. In deploying products and services, the Bank adheres to responsible business spanning the region’s practices and readily commits resources to social investments in fulfilment of its corporate social responsibility convictions. 3 monetary zones – and For more about sustainable business practices visit the United Kingdom. www.accessbankplc.com. We have a diversified Shareholder base comprising local and international institutional and individual investors. The Bank has more than 500,000 Shareholders. The Bank’s Shareholders’ fund is in excess of US$1.2 billion and its strategic intent is to rank among the top 3 Nigerian banks by 2012 and also to become a major catalyst for growth across the African continent. Nigeria United Kingdom 1 2 2 Number of branches 310 Number of branches 1 Number of employees 3,152 Number of employees 76 Customer accounts 5.7m Customer accounts 1,301 6 8 1 The Gambia Democratic Republic 9 3 of The Congo 6 7 5 7 10 4 Number of branches 6 Number of branches 2 Number of employees 135 Number of employees 74 Customer accounts 17,461 Customer accounts 3,114 Access Bank Plc Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2011 06 Best practice Personal accounts Overview The Bank continues to institutionalise best practices to provide We offer a total value package, with customised services Stakeholders with superior assurance regarding the quality of designed to suit individual requirements. Our products and its current corporate governance structures and functions. services are tailored to make everyday banking easier. We offer The Bank demonstrates exemplary performance in its financial the following account types: and non-financial disclosures. Its strengths include a highly Access Early Savers account diverse board membership; competent, dynamic and responsible Early Savers teaches children about saving and gets parents/ management; strong economic value and good ethical practices guardians thinking about their children’s financial future. and transparent processes. Standard Current account As a result of its professionalism and high level adherence The Standard Current account is a checking account designed to global best practices, the Bank is a preferred choice of for the discerning customer. The account gives the flexibility international partners and multilateral agencies seeking to of managing day to day financial affairs. do business in Nigeria and Africa. The list of international organisations that are in partnership with Access Bank Plc Call Deposit account include (but are not limited to) respectable organisations such The Access Bank Call account allows customers to save funds as the Netherlands Development Finance Company (FMO), while maintaining liquidity and earning interest. the International Finance Corporation (IFC), Visa International, Standard Savings account US EXIM and China EXIM Bank. The Standard Savings account helps to save towards future The understanding and commitment of the Bank’s employees, financial security. Aiming to encourage a savings culture, over 500,000 Shareholders, millions of customers and several it is easy and convenient to operate. partners across the world have been critical to Access Bank’s Access Premier account progress and success. Access Premier account is a high-yield current account for individuals, with investment benefits designed to meet their Primary brands, products and services financial needs. Access Bank offers a full range of product options for individuals and institutions through a comprehensive portfolio of financial Solo account and non-financial services. This account provides the opportunity for students and young people between the ages 10 and 15 to access world-class financial services. Ghana Zambia Rwanda 3 4 5 Number of branches 32 Number of branches 5 Number of branches 7 Number of employees 758 Number of employees 145 Number of employees 152 Customer accounts 179,270 Customer accounts 9,042 Customer accounts 17,138 Sierra Leone Côte d’Ivoire Burundi 8 9 10 Number of branches 4 Number of branches 2 Number of branches 6 Number of employees 82 Number of employees 56 Number of employees 106 Customer accounts 9,400 Customer accounts 7,801 Customer accounts 3,788 Access Bank Plc Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2011 07 Our Business Retail Banking We currently serve over 1.5 million customer accounts. We at a Glance provide a range of financial products and services to customers, employees and major Shareholders of corporations, small continued businesses (including churches, schools and hotels) and government institutions. Transaction Services This division provides a clear example of how the Bank overall is broadening its network and customer base and engaging different categories of customer. By the end of 2011, there was a fourfold increase in the number Access Advantage account of the Bank’s branch locations, and a sevenfold increase in the Access Advantage is a savings account that gives the benefits number of customers served by the Bank compared to 2010. of a current account. The engagement model developed prior to the merger with Wealth Management Intercontinental Bank provides tailored services to the Access Bank Wealth Management Group specialises in providing institutional and public sector, corporate and large customers, clients with integrated wealth management products and and high net worth and private banking clients. Staying with the services. These include the principal areas of advisory, same model has ensured a quicker transmission of the division’s investment, banking and risk. ethos: Passion for Customers. Through this, we can contribute to delivering the Access Bank promise of world-class service We create and develop structured products tailored to suit a through exciting customer experiences. customer’s needs and help meet personal financial aspirations. This service includes traditional banking, innovative investments Core services and financial planning. Access Bank Wealth Management offers The Bank also benefits from a range of sophisticated back-office this full range of financial products and services not only in what operations that provide a firm foundation for our business. are termed traditional asset classes such as cash management These operations include IT Services and Settlement Banking. and tenured deposits, but also a broad spectrum of investment opportunities and personalised offerings such as portfolio IT Services management, concierge and custodian services. Access Bank continues to build on its robust Information Technology (IT) platforms that enable it to provide effective Our role is to create, track, preserve and enhance wealth. support for the Access Bank Group’s strategy for business To accomplish this, we have built a global network of growth and sustainability. relationships, expertise and competence. In 2011, more industry benchmark automation projects were Core operations successfully implemented to achieve business optimisation and The Bank’s core operations comprise Institutional Banking, deliver competitive advantage for our business. Our strategic Commercial Banking, Financial Markets, Retail Banking and approach has continued to consider the environmental impacts Transaction Services. of technology. We have focused on self service for our corporate and retail customers, reducing the need to travel to transact Institutional Banking business or execute personal transactions. To bring about This division is responsible for developing the Bank’s relationships operational efficiency, we have invested in the propagation of with tier 1 private sector businesses, essentially comprising large high speed networks across our branches and technologies that multinationals and local corporations. enable Straight Through Processing from the front-end customer The division is structured in a manner that reflects key sectors of transaction to final settlement of transactions. the economy – Oil & Gas, Telecommunications, Food & Beverage, We have invested in the delivery of comprehensive world-class Cement, Metal Fabrication, Transportation and Household database technology that facilitates analytical processing. This Utilities. We deploy highly qualified sector specialists to serve delivers enhanced business and customer intelligence, enabling these corporations operating in these sectors. better insights into operational efficiency and customer Commercial Banking behaviour. Our state-of-the-art Customer Relationship The Commercial Banking Division serves three distinct market Management platforms allow us to manage customer segments: Commercial Banking, the public sector and wealth relationships in a highly efficient manner. management. Our Commercial Banking customers include Settlement Banking organisations with turnover of between N500 million As a settlement bank, Access Bank continues to play an active N13 billion, as well as any other structured and unstructured role in collaboration with the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) in all businesses that are not serviced by our Investment Banking its initiatives towards reforming the National Payments System. Division. Within our commercial banking segment, we maintain The Bank was an active participant in the pilot run of the a special emphasis on SMEs. Public sector clients consist of Electronic Cheque Presentment and Image Exchange (ECPIX) federal ministries, departments and agencies, and other state initiative. This is in preparation for the implementation of cheque and local government entities. truncation in the Nigerian financial settlement system led by Financial Markets Nigeria Inter-Bank Settlement System (NIBSS). The Financial Markets Division provides specialised financing Similarly, the Bank continues to pursue every effort to enhance and investment solutions, including trading in fixed income and interoperability of systems and payment /settlement devices currencies. We conduct these activities through the Treasury Group, to benefit all Stakeholders in the business value chain. the Corporate Finance Group and the Financial Institutions Group. We are also making major investments in transaction settlement infrastructure, and seeking collaboration with partners to develop platforms offering scale efficiency, cost optimisation and better service delivery capabilities. Access Bank Plc Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2011 08 Financial Number of employees Number of employees Overview (Group) (Bank) Highlights 7,051 4,736 Profit before tax Profit before tax (Group) N billion (Bank) N billion 20.3bn 16.0bn Profit after tax Profit after tax (Group) N billion (Bank) N billion 16.7bn 13.7bn Total assets Total assets (Group) N billion (Bank) N billion 1,634.7bn 946.0bn Value Added Statement For the year ended 31 December, 2011 Group Group Bank Bank Dec-11 Dec-10 Dec-11 Dec-10 N’000 % N’000 % N’000 % N’000 % Gross earnings 138,949,414 91,142,064 96,234,017 79,065,123 Interest expense – Local (24,833,614) (17,029,266) (24,937,834) (17,043,282) – Foreign (12,101,521) (4,404,932) (2,507,030) (2,323,017) 102,014,279 69,707,866 68,789,153 59,698,824 Group’s share of associate’s loss (10,000) – – – Loan loss expense: (9,170,616) (4,524,369) (13,673,445) (2,917,513) Allowance on other assets 1,763,088 (183,788) (134,272) (142,816) Allowance no longer required Bought-in-materials and services – Local (44,553,568) (27,580,211) (22,252,501) (22,989,212) – Foreign (1,565,809) – – – Value added 48,477,374 37,419,498 32,728,935 33,649,283 Distribution of Value Added % % % % To Employees: Employess costs 22,090,711 46 15,616,036 42 12,799,299 39 11,542,019 34 To government Government as taxes 3,593,110 7 5,100,749 14 2,356,314 7 4,737,143 14 To providers of finance Interest on borrowings 104,220 – 186,525 – – – 172,508 – Dividend to shareholders 8,944,117 18 3,577,650 10 – – 3,577,650 11 Retained in business: – For replacement of property and equipment 5,423,384 11 4,787,554 13 3,355,180 10 3,605,659 11 – For replacement of equipment on lease 557,694 1 660,513 2 557,694 2 660,513 2 – To pay proposed dividend 3,577,650 7 5,366,476 14 3,577,650 11 5,366,476 16 – To augment reserve 4,186,488 9 2,123,995 6 10,082,798 31 3,987,315 12 48,477,374 100 37,419,498 100 32,728,935 100 33,649,283 100 Access Bank Plc Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2011 09 Our Approach Vision: To be the most to Sustainability respected Bank in Africa Our core values 1 Excellence 4 Empowered employees • Surpassing ordinary standards to be the best in all that we do • Recruiting and retaining the right people and teams based on • Setting the standard for what it means to be exceptional shared values and vision • Never losing sight of our commitment to excellence, even • Developing our people to become world-class professionals when the going gets tough • Encouraging a sense of ownership at individual level whilst • Remembering that excellence requires dedication fostering team spirit and loyalty to a shared vision and commitment • Promoting a sense of belonging and community • Our approach is not that of excellence at all cost – it is • Facilitating continuous learning by providing the training, excellence on all fronts so that we deliver outcomes that are tools and coaching to help our people grow economically, environmentally and socially responsible • Helping them take care of their health 2 Leadership • Pursuing a positive work/life balance for increased productivity and improved employee satisfaction • Leading by example, leading with guts • Encouraging a diverse workforce; respect for & appreciation • Being first, being the best, sometimes being the only of differences in ethnicity, gender, age, national origin, • Courage to be the change we want to see disability, and religion • Setting the standard 5 Professionalism • Challenging the status quo • Putting our best foot forward in everything we do, especially • Market making in high pressure situations • Self-awareness in being able to maintain a balanced assessment • Consistently bringing the best of our knowledge and expertise of externalities and costs incurred in the pursuit of leadership to the table in all of our interactions with our Stakeholders 3 Passion for customers • Setting the highest standards in our work ethic, behaviours and activities in the way we treat our customers and – just as • We live to serve our customers importantly – each other • In addition to delivering excellent customer service, we will • Putting our customers’ needs ahead of our own be focusing on: • Maintaining composure and clear thinking at all times −− Economic empowerment: enabling people to achieve • Ensuring continuous learning; through continuous growth more through provision of finance, lifting people up and career development throughout the value chain −− Financial education: helping people clearly understand 6 Innovation how our products and services work • Identifying new market needs and opportunities −− Financial inclusion: providing finance to those individuals • Creativity, invention, inspiration, exploration and communities that traditionally have limited or no • Pioneering new ways of doing things, new products and access to finance services, new approaches to clients/customers −− Treating customers fairly: building long-term relationships • Being first, testing the waters, pushing boundaries based on trust, fairness and transparency • Going from concept to market/reality • Anticipating and responding quickly to market needs with the right technology, products and services to achieve customer objectives Access Bank Plc Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2011 10 Mission: Setting standards for sustainable Overview business practices that; unleash the talents of our employees, deliver superior value to our customers and provide innovative solutions for the markets and communities we serve. Awards and recognition in 2011 Award Evidence in bank activity THISDAY Awards On 25 March, 2011, the Bank’s Group Managing Director/CEO, Aigboje Aig-Imoukhuede, and the Deputy Group Managing Director, Herbert Wigwe, won the Young Global Champions category of the THISDAY Newspaper Awards for banking transformation across Africa and beyond. FT/IFC Sustainable Access Bank was awarded the prestigious Sustainable Bank of the Year Award for the Africa and Bank of the Year Middle East region at the 2011 FT/ IFC Awards. The award is in recognition of Access Bank’s Award leadership commitment to global best practice in Environmental, Social and Governance, (ESG) performance and is also an affirmation of the Bank’s pioneering role in sustainability and responsible business practice in our operating environment. Business in the Business in the Community (BITC), a network of over 800 businesses committed to inspire, Community (BITC) engage, support and challenge organisations to integrate responsible business practices into their Big Tick Award operations, awarded Access Bank the Business in the Community (BITC) Big Tick award in 2011 for our contribution to sustainability through innovation and our work in the community. Issuing Bank Award At the 4th International Finance Corporation’s Global Trade Finance Program (GTFP) Bank Partners and Most Active GTFP meeting held in Istanbul, Turkey, on 24 and 25 May, 2011, Access Bank won its fourth consecutive Issuing Bank in Africa Issuing Bank Award under the Global Trade Finance Program and a second award as the Most Award Active GTFP Issuing Bank in Africa. Lagos State Corporate The Lagos State CSR Award Committee celebrates the role of corporate organisations in the Social Responsibility economic development and social transformation of Lagos State in the areas of HIV/AIDS, social Gold Award development and education. Access Bank was selected as one of the top 10 brands from a list of 120 organisations that have contributed to young people’s self-esteem, self-discovery, family values and which exhibit a high sense of corporate social responsibility. World Finance Access Bank won the Best ESG Asset Manager Nigeria 2011 Award. The World Finance ESG ESG Award awards recognise those companies who are re-shaping the global SRI marketplace. Access Bank is recognised for having led the way in integrating ESG strategies into its investment decisionmaking process and have fully embraced ESG principles into the Bank’s ethos. Payment Card Industry In 2011, Access Bank demonstrated its industry leadership in e-payment and compliance with its Data Security Standard emergence as the first Nigerian and indeed only bank in West Africa to obtain the Payment Card Certification (PCIDSS) Industry Data Security Standard Certification, (PCIDSS), a demonstration of Access Bank’s support for the regulatory strategy promoting payment systems in Nigeria. Ecofest Environmental The 2011 Ecofest Green Initiative Award was given to Access Bank in recognition of its innovative Award community initiatives and its thought leadership in business sustainability across the continent and in the provision of support for communities. Adoption of IFRS Ahead of the January 2012 compliance date for the adoption of IFRS by publicly quoted in Nigeria companies, set by the Nigerian Government and regulatory bodies, Access Bank blazed the trail by becoming the first financial institution in Nigeria to adopt the International Reporting Standards (IFRS) in January 2011. Management focus responsible for overseeing the delivery of the Bank’s sustainable Sustainability is another key to how we advance our business business strategy, to ensure that the Bank’s sustainability objectives, implement our policies, apply our social investment ambitions in each of its strategic priorities are achieved. and exercise our influence to make a productive contribution to society. We recognise we are in business to maximise Mainstreaming sustainability Shareholder value while minimising the negative social and The Bank has also adopted global best practice principles, environmental impact of every aspect of our operations. There frameworks and standards, to support the effective is therefore high-level management focus on sustainability mainstreaming of sustainability in the Bank. We are therefore and the Bank’s strategy is to mainstream sustainability into its an Equator Principles Financial Institution, an Organisational banking operations for a sustainable future and the long-term Stakeholder (OS) of the Global Reporting Initiative, and a success of its business. member of the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC), United Nations’ Principles for Responsible Investment (UNPRI), The Board of Directors, through an established CSR/Sustainability the United Nations Environment Programme Finance Initiative Committee, provides the highest level of governance oversight for (UNEP FI) and the Clinton Global Initiative. sustainability management. The CSR/Sustainability Committee is Access Bank Plc Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2011 11 Our Approach to Sustainability continued At Access Bank, we are committed to our sustainability agenda and strategies, and address key environmental issues that are and are making efforts at mainstreaming sustainability into all specific to the processes and activities of our business. of our business processes. This involves finding ways to impact a variety of critical issues and themes: economic development Economic development Access Bank seeks to create long-term economic and social and advocacy; employee and partner relations; fair treatment benefits from its projects and presence. We employ a variety of customers; the environment; gender; finance for smalland of economic support and incentive programs, including medium enterprises (SMEs); the arts; education; the employee development and strategic community investments. environment; and sports. Our contributions to economic development allow us to reduce Ideas and resources barriers to development in the communities in which we operate Access Bank is committed to deploying 1% of its annual and are consistent with the objectives of the United Nations profits in support of corporate social responsibility. We actively Millennium Development Goals (MDGs). seek to encourage employees to contribute ideas, skills and Access Bank has taken steps to ensure that risk management resources for societal development, through our employee systems cover the legal, regulatory and reputational risks volunteering scheme. associated with direct and indirect environmental and social All companies within our Group, as responsible corporate impacts. These risk reporting systems have been informed by the citizens, subscribe to the same high level of standards as the Environmental, Social, and Governance (ESG) framework and parent company, and work with others to develop, implement Board level oversight is provided by the Bank’s Operational Risk or contribute to health, educational, environmental and Management Committee (ORMC). ESG risks are addressed by cultural programs focused on their local communities’ needs a policy guideline which addresses environmental and social and aspirations. risk issues in credit and lending. This forms part of a Group-wide framework for addressing the Equator Principles (EP), and provides Sustainability risks, impact and opportunities for internal monitoring and management of ESG performance. At Access Bank, we make disclosures to communicate our Sustainability opportunities sustainability activities in order to enhance public understanding Sustainability opportunities are identified through growth of and opinions. Our coordinated approach to these disclosures the business and the implementation of sustainability solutions aligns with international best practice. The most significant of at business unit level, as well as the Bank’s participation in the Bank’s sustainability-related risks and opportunities relate sustainability and environmental forums. These forums provide to our operations, external environment, and relationships. a platform to pursue sustainability opportunities and, where Sustainability opportunities are identified, prioritised and managed necessary, incubate new projects until they mature enough through growth of the business and the implementation of to be fully integrated into the operations of the business sustainability solutions at business unit level, as well as the Bank’s unit concerned. participation in sustainability and environmental forums. We also Prioritising risks and opportunities consider issues raised by our key Stakeholders and international Risks and opportunities are prioritised, taking business benchmarks for sustainability performance. performance implications and stakeholder materiality into Access Bank also has risk management processes in place to consideration. The Bank defines materiality according to the enhance its existing processes by integrating sustainability within GRI (G3) guidelines definition and with reference to both internal them. We have taken steps to ensure that our risk management and external factors. Current sustainability priorities include systems cover the legal, regulatory and reputational risks investing in employee development and retention, maintaining associated with direct and indirect environmental and social progressive business client relationships, managing our impacts. These risk reporting systems have been informed by environmental footprint, and implementing environmental and the Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) framework. social (E&S) risk management processes, while supporting other ESG describes the main areas of concern that have developed financial institutions in Nigeria through E&S risk management as the central factors in measuring the Bank’s sustainability capacity-building programmes. and ethical impact. Access Bank has begun to integrate environmental and social Customer satisfaction (E&S) risk management considerations into its business Access Bank recognises that marketplace perceptions and operations. This takes all significant E&S issues into consideration reactions to business behaviour and practices are critical to while ensuring that our business operations do not degrade the corporate success. We engage in responsible customer relations, environment or cause social harm. Through this activity, the Bank including marketing and advertising; and ethical competition. achieved the following: We treat our customers fairly, with openness and transparency, • Developed specific E&S policies for sectors such as Oil & Gas and ensure that our marketing practices enable us to focus on and Cement which have the greatest impacts on E&S risks; building and maintaining sustainable, long-term relationships • Reviewed and aligned E&S policy and procedures with with our customers. international best practice standards; and Environmental performance • Developed a risk management toolkit that will assist the Bank Access Bank is committed to conducting its business in a in screening projects to identify potential E&S risks; determine manner that protects the environment, wherever we operate. appropriate level of E&S due diligence required for projects We integrate environmental elements into our business plans and integrate E&S policy into existing credit processes. Access Bank Plc Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2011 12 Recent sustainability milestones Year Evidence in bank activity Overview 2007 • September – the Bank becomes a member of the GBCHealth, formerly Global Business Coalition on HIV/AIDS, TB and malaria. • October – joins the Nigeria Business Coalition Against AIDS (NIBUCAA) in line with the Bank’s commitment to support the Nigerian corporate response to the issues of HIV/AIDS. • December – unites with the global community to celebrate World AIDS Day on 1 December, 2007. 2008 • January – the first Access Bank Corporate Social Responsibility Strategy is approved by the Bank’s Board of Directors. • February – Access Bank launches its Workplace Policy and Programmes on HIV/AIDS. • May – the Bank trains 300 peer educators to act as crusaders for HIV/AIDS preventive practices and to provide support for infected staff members. • June – becomes a pioneering member of Business in the Community (BITC). • September – Access Bank receives Nigeria’s Most Improved Company in CSR award from Social Enterprise and Report Awards (SERA). • October – Access Bank is nominated for the FT/IFC Africa/Middle East Emerging Markets Sustainable Bank of the Year Award. 2009 • March – becomes the first Nigerian financial institution to sign-on to the London Benchmarking Group (LBG). This provides a comprehensive and consistent parameter to capture the output and longer-term impacts of the Bank’s Community Investment projects on business and society. • April – the Bank joins the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) and uses GRI guidelines to produce its CSR/Sustainability Report. • June – start of the Going Green; Beyond Words Tree Planting Initiative. Through this project, Access Bank has so far been able to educate 800 students from 40 secondary schools across Nigeria on climate change causes, effects and solutions. The scheme has inspired students to reduce CO2 emissions within schools, and in their local communities, and resulted in the planting of 4,800 trees. • June – the Bank becomes the first Nigerian financial institution to become a signatory to the Equator Principles (EP). • October – launch of Mirror the Master Initiative, celebrating the works of established art masters. The initiative has helped to showcase 500 new talented artists in Nigeria. For example, Omeke Johncross, from Model Primary School, Nsukka was a winner in the first phase of this scheme and currently has 2 of his paintings in the British Royal Collection. 2010 • January – the Bank commences the strategic integration of Environmental and Social (E&S) considerations into the Bank’s business operations. • March – concludes the first phase of its SME Workplace Policy Programme training. Through this project, Access Bank has been able to enhance the capacity of 250 SMEs to develop Workplace Policy on HIV/AIDS, TB and malaria and scale up on health programmes. • September – contributes US$1 million to the Global Fund Gift from Africa Project. This remains the single largest donation by an African private sector corporation to combat HIV/AIDS, TB and malaria. • October – Access Bank named Most Socially Responsible Bank by African Banker magazine. • November – appointment of Access Bank’s GMD/CEO, Aigboje Aig-Imoukhuede, to the Global Business Coalition on HIV/AIDS, TB and malaria Board in recognition of the Bank’s HIV/AIDS, TB and malaria eradication efforts. • December – through the Bank’s Employee Volunteering Programme, Access Bank staff pass the milestone of having impacted 25,000 lives. This figure includes about 15,000 students in educational institutions, 100 orphans and vulnerable children affected by HIV/AIDS, 1,500 secondary school students receiving education about HIV/AIDS, 4,000 hospital patients, 2,000 community members gaining access to portable water and about 3,500 orphans, elderly, prison inmates and motherless children. 2011 • March – Access Bank leads the adoption of the Environmental and Social Risk Management Framework through a pioneering workshop for financial institutions operating in Nigeria in partnership with FMO, IFC, African Development Bank and Proparco. • March – the Bank becomes the first financial institution in Nigeria to deploy a customised Sustainable Finance toolkit that will assist in screening projects to identify potential E&S risks. The kit will also determine the appropriate level of E&S due diligence required for projects and integrate E&S policy into the Bank’s existing credit processes. The Bank also signed the CEO Statement in support of the UNGC/UN Women’s Empowerment Principles. • March – Aigboje Aig-Imoukhuede and Herbert Wigwe win the Young Global Champions category in the THISDAY Awards for banking transformation across Africa and beyond. • April – Access Bank was awarded a Big Tick in the Business in the Community (BITC) Awards for Excellence 2011. For companies who have demonstrated a significant impact in making responsible business an integral part of what they do, this national award is one the most recognised endorsements of responsible practice. • May – Access Bank was recognised by GBCHealth for reaching the finalist stage of the Business Action on Health Award. • June – Access Bank was named Sustainable Bank of the Year (Middle East and Africa) in the 2011 FT/IFC Sustainable Banking Awards. • July – Access Bank won the Lagos State CSR Gold Award for its good corporate citizenship. • September – Access Bank initiates the pioneering Nigeria Sustainable Finance Week which concludes with a CEO Roundtable. At the Roundtable, the Strategic Sustainability Working Group (SSWG) is constituted, with Access Bank as the Secretariat. • October – Access Bank, alongside other members of the Bankers Committee, signs a joint statement on Nigeria Sustainable Banking Principles. • October – Access Bank wins the World Finance ESG Award as the 2011 Best ESG Asset Manager, Nigeria, for integrating ESG into its business operations. • November – the Bank trains 2,000 SMEs across Nigeria, Ghana, Rwanda and Zambia. This enhances the capacity of the SMEs to develop Workplace Policy on HIV/AIDS, TB and malaria and scale up on health programmes. • December – the Board of Directors approve the revision of the Bank’s corporate philosophy in line with our sustainability agenda. Access Bank Plc Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2011 13 Our Approach to Sustainability continued Corporate governance structure and procedure • Employees are expressly prohibited from using their The Bank’s approach to corporate governance is responsive association with the organisation for personal gains beyond to the changing regulatory environment. Our governance and authorised compensation and benefits. Whenever there is ethical behaviour form the baseline of our business practice. any question of whether an activity would violate or appear This ensures that we tie Sustainability directly to the Bank’s to violate this principle, guidance must be sought from Senior Management and Board of Directors, who bear appropriate management authority. Clarification must be responsibility for overall business strategy, practices and policies. sought on all issues which border on conflict of interest; Our governance structure determines the fundamental • Employees must not, on their own behalf, borrow from relationships among the members of the Board of Directors, or lend to customers of Access Bank Plc; Management and other Stakeholders. It defines the framework • Employees must not use the Bank’s name and influence through which ethical values are established and the context for personal purposes; in which corporate strategies and objectives are set. • Employees must not do anything to undermine either another The strength of our governance starts at the top with a employee, or the affairs of the Bank; Non-Executive Chairman and 7 well-informed Non-Executive • Employees must adhere to the Bank’s principles and policies, Directors that give priority to strategic planning; ensure that and must remain completely free of conflicting interests or standards exist to promote ethical behaviour throughout activities which interfere with proper performance of their the organisation; and drive continuous improvement in duties to the Bank; and governance practices. • Employees must conduct themselves in a manner that brings Corporate governance at the Bank is the principal responsibility credit to the Bank. of the Directors led by the Chairman of the Board, while The Bank has also created polices and standards to eliminate management of the Bank is the responsibility of the four issues relating to conflicts of interest. Policies include: Executive Directors led by the Group Managing Director/CEO. The Board of Directors at all times complies with the Central • Code of Conduct: Access Bank employees are governed by Bank of Nigeria (CBN) Code of Corporate Governance. an Employee Code of Conduct. The Code contains extensive provisions on the following areas: compliance with laws, Board composition, selection and tenure of Directors rules and regulations; confidential customer information; • Directors that are currently employed by the Bank are deemed confidential bank property; conflict of interest; gifts from Executive and all others are deemed Non-Executive; customers; loans to or from customers; use of account by • Non-Executive Directors will always constitute at least a third parties; use of the Bank’s name; cooperation with majority of the Board; regulatory bodies; and public statement. Contained in this • An Executive Director that has substantial stock in the Code is the conflict of interest policy. This policy ensures that Company upon retirement may elect to serve on the Board of all employees avoid any situation that poses a conflict, or the Directors as a Non-Executive Director. In all other cases, an appearance of a conflict, between their personal interests and Executive Director shall submit his or her resignation from the the performance of their official duties. Board upon termination of active service as an employee; • The Code is regularly reviewed and updated as required, to • A Director will retire from the Board at the next Annual ensure it covers all aspects of our activities and is clear and easy General Meeting of the Shareholders following the attainment for our employees to understand and follow. Employees are of age 70; and encouraged to familiarise themselves with the Code of Conduct and ensure strict adherence to its provisions. • A Director will also vacate office or cease to be a Director, if the Director directly or indirectly takes a facility from the Bank that • Directors’ Regulatory Reporting Framework: This guides the remains non-performing for a period of more than 12 months. reporting of Directors’ interest in contracts, Directors’ interest in facilities, the reporting of share dealings by Directors, Mechanism for making recommendations to highest among others. governance body • Determining qualifications and expertise of the highest Shareholders and other Stakeholders communicate with the governance body: Members of the Board are appointed Board at the Investors Forum and Annual General Meetings, taking into account the following criteria demonstrated which are held yearly and where Stakeholders are free to raise outstanding achievement in the prospective Board any issue of concern. The Bank also has an Investor Relations Unit member’s personal career: which is an accessible channel for Shareholders to register their views, which are communicated to the Board. −− Breadth of experience; −− Soundness of judgement; Through the annual employee survey report, the Board is informed of staff opinions. Also, employees express their views −− Ability to make independent, analytical inquiries; through various channels including one-on-one discussions, −− Ability to contribute to a diversity of viewpoints among focus group discussions, feedback via emails, among others. Board members; and Conflicts of interest −− Willingness and ability to devote the time required to The Bank’s business requires that special obligations be imposed on perform Board activities adequately. all employees to safeguard its integrity, operations and interests. Access Bank Plc Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2011 14 Overview Evaluating Board performance Annual Board performance evaluations are conducted The Bank remains fully internally and externally by consultants. Internally, the collective performance of the Board is evaluated by all Board members committed and engaged via using evaluation criteria approved by the Board. This is done our core initiatives to ensure at least annually. Externally, Board performance evaluation is conducted by consultants. For the reporting period, the the long-term sustainability evaluation of the Board was conducted by Accenture. of our business Sustainability governance The Bank’s Group Sustainability Committee was established in 2009 to oversee and align our approach to the range of social and environmental issues and opportunities which confront our Left: Sanusi Lamido Sanusi, business on a daily basis. Governor, Central Bank of Nigeria during the CEO Roundtable at The Committee meets quarterly and is chaired by the Group Nigeria Sustainable Finance Week Managing Director. All key business areas are represented on the Committee, which benefits from the skills of an independent expert, Dr Christopher Kolade, the Chairman of the Convention of Business Integrity (CBI). Dr Kolade provides leadership support, guidance and an Right: The CEO Roundtable independent opinion on the Bank’s sustainability performance, to enable the Bank to benefit from global best practice. The Bank’s Group Sustainability Committee is responsible for setting guidance and direction, and for overseeing policies and progress on the Company’s Corporate Social Responsibility and related activities. The Committee also offers advice to the Board on these matters. The Group CSR Team provides central support to the Committee in order to facilitate this. The Bank also has a series of other committees and steering groups that oversee our governance approach to sustainability. They review emerging and current issues, risks as well as opportunities, make recommendations to the Board and are actively involved in the integration and implementation of the Bank’s sustainability initiatives. To ensure that the agreed sustainability agenda is put into practice, the CSR Team works with a network of Strategic Business Units Heads and CSR Champions in our various countries of operation. Across the Bank, we have a number of complementary systems and policies in place to assess and mitigate a range of reputational and sustainability risks. Further detail is provided in this report. Above: Herbert Wigwe, Deputy Group Managing Director, Access Regulation, legislation and public policy Bank Plc at the CEO Roundtable The Bank ensures that its policies, procedures and practices are in sync with public policy. In addition, the Bank is actively engaged in influencing public policy formulation via several reform advocacy initiatives it has embarked upon or supported. Nigeria Sustainable Finance Week Commitments to external initiatives In March 2011, the Bank organised an internal capacity building The Bank remains fully committed and engaged via our core workshop for staff to build capacity on E&S Management. initiatives to ensure the long-term sustainability of our business. In addition to this, an external workshop was organised for We continue to take many opportunities to work with partners Nigerian Financial Institutions to create awareness on on a range of sustainability issues. environmental and social issues. Access Bank Plc Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2011 15 Our Approach to Sustainability continued As a follow up to this, the Bank sponsored an enlarged Plenary panel: Why sustainable agriculture? Stakeholder programme entitled Nigeria Sustainable Finance This session looked at the importance of agriculture to the Week with the theme “Moving Frontiers – Sustainable Finance” Nigerian economy and the growth of sustainability in this sector. was organised in September 2011 in partnership with United Delegates discussed the agreement signed by the Central Bank Nations Environment Programme Financial Institutions (UNEP FI), of Nigeria with the Alliance for a Green Revolution in Africa to the Dutch Development Bank (FMO), the International Finance develop innovative and responsible financing mechanisms for Corporation (IFC), the African Carbon Asset Development Facility agriculture. They also discussed the role of banks in this (ACAD), the Nigerian Conservation Foundation (NCF), the important sector. Questions discussed included: Chartered Institute of Bankers of Nigeria (CIBN), DEG, Proparco and AfDB. Attended by more than 200 delegates, this event • What are the key issues for sustainability of agriculture in provided a forum for the exchange of ideas and information Nigeria? among sustainability NGOs, corporate organisations and leading • Is sustainability in agriculture a hurdle or an accelerator for financial professionals from around the world. It also presented economic development? a platform to address the challenges around E&S integration and • How is the Government of Nigeria supporting development highlighted environmental and social issues relevant to Nigeria’s of the sector? banking sector. The following workshops were held during the Nigeria CEO roundtable Sustainable Finance Week: This was a closed event on the final day of Nigeria Sustainable Finance Week for the CEOs of selected Nigerian banks including Plenary Session 1– Financing the Green Economy the Central Bank. Its purpose was to create awareness of Keynote address: Financing the Green Economy sustainability at the highest levels of industry and to synthesise This session highlighted how sustainable finance is at a tipping current thinking on sustainability opportunities and challenges in point. It also underlined the importance to banking of Green Nigeria with reference to the financial sector. It led to the signing Economy issues – low carbon, energy security, resource efficiency of a Joint Commitment Statement on Nigeria Sustainable and secure global supply chains for strategic materials. This was Banking Principles by the CEOs of Nigerian banks, and the presented by Paul Clements-Hunt, Head of Unit, UNEP FI. establishment of a Strategic Sustainability Working Group. This effort has prioritised sustainability in the agenda of the Nigerian Plenary panel: Financing a low-carbon Energy Sector financial sector. This session highlighted how renewable energy sector is gaining ground in the Nigerian energy sector. Understanding the UNEP FI advanced environmental and social risk potential of renewable energy requires the discussion of both the analysis workshop barriers and drivers of this sector as well as the ways the financial The workshop aimed to educate employees of local, regional and sector can gain from this developing industry. It also requires international financial institutions in the identification, analysis understanding how public-private partnership can leverage and management of environmental and social risk generated private financial flows. Questions discussed included: through their lending and investment activities. The • What is the role of the traditional energy suppliers in the consideration of social and environmental risks in mainstream transition to a low-carbon energy sector? financial analysis is a growing trend. It offers a wide range of opportunities both for the financial sector and for the promotion • What barriers and drivers do private financiers currently of sustainable development. see in investing in low-carbon/renewable energy? • How can the resources of governments and multilateral The session was attended by representatives of financial financial institutions leverage financial flows from banks, institutions only, especially risk managers and analysts working insurers and investors into the low-carbon energy supply? in development, commercial, corporate or investment banks. Plenary Session 2– Agriculture financing Nigerian conservation foundation environmental Keynote address: Agriculture financing symposium This session provided a technical background on how global This part of the event brought all relevant stakeholders together organisations such as Rabobank approach agriculture financing to examine current financial mechanisms supporting local and and how they integrate sustainability into the financing process. global environmental issues. The symposium assessed the state The speaker was Hans Bogaard, Head of Agribusiness Finance, of environmental funding worldwide and in Nigeria and Rabobank. examined a variety of challenges associated with environmental funding. Participants included representatives of federal and Keynote address: Sustainable agriculture state government, members of the legislative arm of – a competitive advantage government, bilateral and multilateral funding agencies, nonThis session looked at the commercial benefits of sustainable governmental organisations and representatives of financial agriculture through a food production company’s perspective institutions. The speakers were: Mrs Odusote, The Director on sustainable sourcing practices. General, Nigeria Ecological Fund; Kumi Naido, Greenpeace International; Paul Segal, WWF Senegal; and Donald Duke, Former Governor of Nigeria. Access Bank Plc Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2011 16 Overview We participate in industryRight: The Nigerian Conservation Foundation Symposium wide discussions and adhere during the Nigeria Sustainable Finance Week to the Government and regulatory code of standards Left: CEO Roundtable at the Nigeria Sustainable Finance Week Right: Obeahon A. Ohiwerei, Executive Director, Commercial Banking Division, Access Bank Plc; Herman Mulder, Sustainability Thought Leader, Okey Nwuke, Executive Director, Institutional Banking Division, Access Bank Plc and Ashok Meda Kumar, Senior Banking Advisor, Access Bank Plc Left: ACAD Carbon Credit Workshop Right: Aigboje Aig-Imoukhuede, Group Managing Director, Access Bank Plc, Sanusi Lamido Sanusi, Governor, Central Bank of Nigeria and Nanno Kleiterp, CEO of FMO during the CEO Roundtable at Nigeria Sustainable Finance Week Above: Nigerian Conservation Right: United Nations Environment Foundation Symposium Programme Finance Initiative (UNEP FI) Environmental and Risk Management Workshop Access Bank Plc Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2011 17 Our Approach to Sustainability continued ACAD carbon finance workshop Some of the initiatives we have implemented include: This one-day seminar on Carbon Financing co-sponsored by the • Carrying out tax self-assessments with the overall aim of African Carbon Asset Development (ACAD) Facility targeted the computing the Bank’s tax liabilities; needs of credit and credit risk managers and investment officers working within African financial institutions. The objective was • Periodic internal tax self-audit in readiness for annual to enhance these financial professionals’ understanding of the regulatory tax audits; new business opportunities presented by global carbon trading • Timely response to tax issues emanating from tax authorities; and carbon credit offset investments in Africa. • Liaison with relevant tax authorities for timely and amicable After the workshop, participants were able to identify carbon resolution of any identified tax challenges; and credit generation opportunities in areas such as renewable • Partnership with tax authorities in the design and energy and energy efficiency and to understand how the carbon implementation of relevant new tax initiatives. credit project cycle overlaps with traditional investment project In addition to these activities, the Bank actively participates in cycles. Specifically, participants also gained insight into how to the generation of tax revenues to governments (federal and appraise the risks associated with such investments and how state) through prompt payments of taxes such as corporate carbon revenue streams could be integrated into equity and tax and education tax. The Bank also plays a major role as a project financing structures and modelling. tax collector for the government. The training included a case study providing a hands-on simulation involving the financial structuring of a carbon Stakeholder engagement transaction and the negotiation of an emission reductions Engaging with a wide range of Stakeholder groups is important purchase agreement. in understanding emerging trends and issues, and the Bank’s potential roles and response. Getting direct feedback from Experts in carbon project development and sustainable customers and employees and responding is key to our business finance from Standard Bank, the United Nations Environment sustainability. This has given us the opportunity to develop a Programme (UNEP), and African CDM development relationship, allowing us to communicate directly with interested organisations ensured delegates benefited fully from this parties, explaining our approach to a range of issues and the workshop. future focus of Access Bank. De-regulation roundtable Access Bank’s major Stakeholders include regulators, Following the Nigerian Government’s announcement regarding government, Shareholders and investors, employees, customers, the proposed deregulation of the downstream oil sector, the suppliers, Non-Governmental Organisations (NGOs), Bank organised an executive roundtable to address the issues communities and the media. We spend a great deal of time and probable impact of the policy. ensuring that we listen to all our Stakeholders, respond to their The forum provided an opportunity for the Bank and other key feedback and address their areas of concern, so that we can Stakeholders to discuss the economic and business challenges align our business interests with their interests. of deregulation. Identifying and engaging Stakeholders Power summit Access Bank’s key Stakeholders are categorised into groups The Bank was the only sponsor from the banking sector at the based on their interaction with our business activities. The Power Summit 2011 organised by the Commonwealth Business categories are not mutually exclusive – some groups potentially Council (CBC) in conjunction with the Trade Fair Group and have interests across a number of category areas. Some areas, Global Business Report (GBR). The summit was held at the Royal such as customers and employees, are all-inclusive; others, such Commonwealth Society Office in London in March 2011. The as NGOs, require priority to identify the most relevant groups to 2-day event provided a platform for sharing experience and engage with. expertise in the power sector. Participants included governments We gather Stakeholder views through a number of mechanisms, of Commonwealth countries, private companies, technology including opinion surveys, focus group discussions on particular companies and other power sector Stakeholders. issues, regular dialogue with media representatives and NGOs and staff, consultations with consumer groups and involvement Access Bank’s approach to tax in industry-wide discussions. The Bank recognises that tax compliance is fundamental to earning and retaining the confidence and trust of its For example, with customers we conduct customer satisfaction Stakeholders. It provides the structure through which corporate and loyalty surveys, produce quarterly reports, collect feedback tax objectives of the Bank are set and the means of attaining from our contact centre and liaise with the customer ombudsman those objectives. for process and service improvement and new product development. We record problems noted by clients in a central To ensure compliance with tax laws and regulations, the Bank database handled by our customer ombudsman and follow up engages the services of experienced tax consultants, who assist the directly to ensure that systemic problems are corrected. Bank in implementing various initiatives and carrying out activities aimed at promoting sound tax practices within the Bank. Access Bank Plc Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2011 18 Overview Engagement mechanisms used in 2011 Stakeholder group Primary engagement mechanism Main issues Customers We continually monitor customer opinion, • Safety and security feedback and complaints received through our • Transaction turnaround time (TAT) call centres, online surveys and local engagement • Fees and interest rates to identify current and future issues that could impact upon levels of satisfaction with our service. Employee Our annual Employee Opinion Survey tracks • Employee development the overall engagement levels of staff. This is • Employee engagement supplemented by regular surveys, communication campaigns and focus group discussions. Investors Our leadership team and the Group Investor • Financial sustainability Relations team meet regularly with current and • Corporate governance potential investors. We also undertake regular meetings and quarterly conference calls with local and international investment analysts. Suppliers We conduct regular meetings with key suppliers • Clear and consistent communication to discuss our business relationship, and we undertake a vendor performance assessment to capture their feedback and assess their performance. Industry forums We participate in industry-wide discussions and • Financial sustainability adhere to the Government and regulatory code • Fair banking of standards. In addition, we participate in • Effect of Central Bank of Nigeria a number of industry forums focusing on (CBN) reforms sustainability issues. Media Our corporate communications and media • Financial sustainability teams respond on a daily basis to enquiries • Remuneration on a range of issues. • Fair banking • Global citizenship Access Bank Plc Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2011 19 Our Approach to Sustainability continued Strategic external initiatives Partner Profile Partnership update United Nations Global The UNGC offers a policy framework for The Bank’s GMD/CEO, Aigboje Aig-Imoukhuede Compact (UNGC) the development and implementation of signed the United Nations Global Compact corporate sustainability strategies. It also offers (UNGC) CEO statement supporting the a platform, based on universal principles, empowerment of women. to encourage partnerships and innovative initiatives with civil society, government and other Stakeholders. United Nations Global partnership between UNEP and the The Bank worked with the UNEP FI to host Environment financial sector. UNEP FI provides the an Advanced Environmental and Social Risk Programme Finance opportunity for organisations to understand, Analysis Workshop during the Nigeria Initiative (UNEP FI) and respond to, environmental considerations Sustainable Finance Week in September 2011. on financial performance. UNEP FI aims to advance the cause of sustainability in the finance sector. Global Reporting GRI’s mission is to develop and disseminate Access Bank reports on performance indicators Initiative globally applicable sustainability reporting recommended by GRI. Access Bank has been (GRI) guidelines. These are set global standards a GRI Organisational Stakeholder since 2009. for reporting on the economic, environmental The Bank participated in the Panel Discussion, and social dimensions of an organisation’s involving leading African financial institutions activities, products and services. of Sustainability Reporting at the GRI Side Event at the UNEP Governing Council/Global Ministerial Environmental Forum held in March, 2011. Access Bank was also invited to speak at GRI’s Webinar on Human Rights in July 2011. London Provides comprehensive and consistent set Access Bank participates in LBG annual Benchmarking of measures for Corporate Community data returns. Group (LBG) Investment (CCI) in order to determine the actual community contribution by an organisation while capturing the output and longer term impacts of the CCI projects on business and society. Equator Group of over 70 financial institutions with The EP standards have been incorporated in Principles operations in over 100 countries across the the Bank’s Environmental and Social Policy (EP) globe. The Equator Principles are a project and are used to assess lending activities. finance industry standard for addressing Access Bank attended the organisation’s environmental and social issues in project 2011 Annual Meeting. financing globally. United Nations Principles An investor initiative in partnership with UNEP The Bank participated in the UNPRI’s 2011 FI and the UN Global Compact. The principles survey – an annual online questionnaire for Responsible provide a menu of possible actions for whose responses are used to create the Investment (UNPRI) incorporating environmental, social and UNPRI Annual Report on Progress. governance (ESG) issues into mainstream investment decision-making and ownership practices. Access Bank Plc Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2011 20 Overview Partner Profile Partnership update Business in the A network of over 800 businesses committed The Bank, represented by Jamie Simmonds, Community (BITC) to inspire, engage, support and challenge MD, Access Bank, UK, participated in the organisations to integrate responsible business Business in the Community (BITC) 2011 practices into their operations. Responsible Business Convention and spoke during a plenary session on ‘Working Globally, Adapting Locally: Transforming The Pace of Change’. Access Bank was awarded the ‘Big Tick’ Award in 2011 for inspiring and innovative programmes that have positively impacted the United Nation’s Millennium Development Goals (MDGs). GBCHealth A coalition of over 220 companies seeking to The Bank’s GMD, Aigboje Aig-Imoukhuede, create opportunities for the global business was elected the co-chair of GBCHealth. Aig’s community to fight and speak out on HIV/ appointment was announced at the GBC’s AIDS, TB and malaria worldwide. 10th Anniversary Awards Gala Dinner in New York on Thursday, 2 June, 2011. Nigerian Conservation Premier charitable environmental organisation The Bank partnered with the NCF to host an Foundation (NCF) in Nigeria which aims to improve the quality environmental symposium during the Nigeria of human life through: Sustainable Finance Week. • Preserving the full range of Nigeria’s biodiversity; • Promoting sustainable use of natural resources for the benefit of present and future generations; and • Advocating actions that minimise pollution and wasteful utilisation of renewable resources. Nigeria Business Coalition Coalition of 40 companies supporting The Bank participated in and sponsored the Against AIDS (NIBUCAA) businesses to implement workplace Nigeria Business Coalition Against AIDS HIV & AIDS programmes and positioning (NIBUCAA) Roundtable with the theme members individually, as well as collectively, ‘Minimum Prevention Package: A Critical to contribute to the national response to the Building Block for HIV Programming in Nigeria’. HIV/AIDS pandemic. NIBUCCA provided technical assistance for the Bank’s SME Workplace Policy programme in 2011. Convention on Business The CBi was established to empower business As members of the Convention on Business Integrity (CBi) transactions in and within Nigeria against Integrity (CBi), Access Bank operates a zero corruption and corrupt practices. Its vision is tolerance policy with regards to corruption. to move the society towards a visible zero The Bank continuously engages in various tolerance of corruption. actions to ensure full compliance with regulations on corrupt practices. Clinton Global Initiative Established in 2005 by former President Bill We became a member of the CGI in 2011 and (CGI) Clinton, the Clinton Global Initiative (CGI) we are committed to the Global Smoke-free encourages global leaders to create and Worksite Challenge. implement innovative solutions to the world’s In September 2011, the Access Bank GMD, most pressing challenges. Aigboje Aig-Imoukhuede, made a Global Health Commitment alongside Bill Clinton at the 2011 Clinton Global Initiative Annual General Meeting in New York. Access Bank Plc Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2011 21 Customers Key issues in the marketplace We have always sought to understand our customers Our customers better and redesign our We ranked among the top 6 banks services to meet their needs. in Nigeria in 2011 but we aim to do better in 2012. For further details We continually review our please see page 22 standards and processes Customer ombudsman to ensure we exceed The Ombudsman process strives for a win: win resolution to ensure customer requirements that the smooth customer/banker relationship is not disrupted by any complaint. For further details please see page 23 Our customers Customer satisfaction During the year, the Bank ranked amongst the top 6 banks in survey 2011 Nigeria in terms of service delivery and this was confirmed by The customer satisfaction survey our ranking in the 2011 KPMG Banking Industry Customer provides valuable insight about our Satisfaction Survey for Banks in Nigeria, where we came 4th for performance and help drive Corporate and 6th position in Retail. We have taken this as an improvement initiatives. objective assessment of our performance and have aimed higher For further details for the 2012 KPMG ratings, as well as other globally acceptable please see page 24 assessments carried out by relevant bodies. Improving quality for our subsidiary customers Project 5-Star performance Our focus in 2011 was to enhance product knowledge and staff improvement Our aim is to achieve a drastic conduct, and to provide a consistently high quality environment improvement in service delivery. within our branches. The Bank has mandated an Innovation Total Quality Management (ITQM) representative at each subsidiary For further details 25 to ensure service quality. These individuals have ITQM as their please see page primary function and drive service in their respective subsidiaries. Customer service week The ITQM representatives ensure that they consistently solicit This was the 4th year in a row that customers’ perception of service and measure the 4 critical we showed our commitment to success factors of service quality − customer service, ambience, quality service. For further details turnaround time and error rate – in their branches. The ITQM please see page 29 teams do this via the Bank’s Project 5-Star performanceimprovement project, which is a survey. Communications and promotions The ITQM unit also has responsibility for resolving customer We believe in responsible issues in the subsidiaries. To ensure that the Bank continually marketing and advertising. improves customer satisfaction in the subsidiaries, Service Quality For further details reports are sent to the Head Office in Nigeria on a monthly basis. please see page 28 Customer issues highlighted in subsidiaries outside Nigeria have much in common with those in Nigeria, although there is less Financial inclusion emphasis on service failure online or at ATMs. To monitor Our Early Savers product helps progress, the Group Service Quality Assurance (SQA) unit the young take a step towards consistently measures service performance at all channel points financial literacy. For further details and proposes solutions to the process owners until higher please see page 29 customer satisfaction ratings are realised. Fighting corruption Regular employee training has reduced the Bank’s exposure to incidence of corruption and money laundering. For further details please see page 29 Access Bank Plc Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2011 22 The Access Early Savers account aims to ensure that every child has access to sound and impartial money guidance Customers A new service initiative involves visits by management to the Bank’s branches to assess service quality and analyse customer experiences Listening to customers We strive to achieve customer satisfaction through first-class customer service, treating our customers fairly and dealing swiftly and effectively with any complaints, through an ombudsman if necessary. We only create products and services that our customers want and for which there is a clear market need. In this way, we develop responsible products and services that represent added value to society. In our marketing communications, too, we pride ourselves on our responsible approach. Allied to responsibility is integrity and through all of our business dealings we never fail to take measures to ensure compliance and to fight corruption in all its forms. We use our Contact Centre, as well as other channels, to solicit customer feedback, while our relevant departments such as IT, Product Development and Research, and Marketing use such feedback in the review and redesign of our processes, systems and products. Guest frontline service This new service initiative involves visits by management to the Bank’s branches to assess service quality and analyse customer experiences. This activity was formalised in 2011 and took place every 3 months. Customer ombudsman The ombudsman functions as the Bank’s complaint resolution expert by listening to customers, providing and receiving information, identifying and reframing issues, and developing a range of positive resolutions that are acceptable to both the Bank and its customers. The ombudsman liaises with the Investigation Unit, Remedial Assets, relationship managers, marketers and customer care officers in investigating customers’ complaints with a view to resolving them in a timely manner. The ombudsman makes recommendations compatible with the Bank’s policies but is not involved with making binding decisions, or mandating policies, or formally adjudicating on issues on behalf of the Bank. Access Bank Plc Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2011 23 Customers The Innovation Total Quality continued Management (ITQM) Group conducted more than 100 surveys of the Bank’s customers in 2011 Resolving complaints Customer satisfaction survey 2011 The ombudsman identifies trends, issues and concerns regarding The ITQM group conducts customer satisfaction surveys all customers’ complaints that may directly or indirectly affect the year round in the branches. This is with a view to discern Bank’s policies, products, services and procedures, including customer needs as well as how our services are meeting their potential future issues and concerns and provides suggestions requirements. The surveys also cover other banks’ channels and and recommendations where necessary. The customers’ products. In 2011, the Bank surveyed branches in different ombudsman will, within 24 hours of receiving a complaint, regions with the aim of making comparisons. The focus during write to acknowledge receipt and assure the complainant the year under review was on customer loyalty using Net that his or her complaint is receiving attention. On average, Promoter Scores (NPS), a system for identifying loyal enthusiasts the ombudsman will resolve complaints within 3 to 7 days, who will keep using a brand and refer it (ie promote it) to others, depending on the complexity of the complaint and the nature so fuelling growth. This is a different approach to measuring just of the reconciliation required in reaching a settlement. customer satisfaction as it is known that satisfied customers may still defect from a brand. So the loyalty index is what determines If parties are dissatisfied with the resolution reached, the the probability that customers will remain with a business ombudsman may further mediate to arrive at a fair settlement. irrespective of changing circumstances. The propensity to If either party is displeased with the outcome, there is a switch was also determined. We conducted over 100 surveys mechanism for escalating the complaint for further action. of this type. The ombudsman keeps a log of all complaints received and these are tracked through a weekly report until final resolution. Customer survey results by region Training Region NPS Customer loyalty (%) (Net promoters) Switch rate (%) (Propensity to switch) The ombudsman reports to the Board’s Risk Committee on the Ikeja 63.12 34.32 trend of complaints received by the Bank and the nature of the South-East 51.92 7.58 resolutions employed. On a quarterly basis, the ombudsman North-East 50.25 17.54 circulates points learned from resolved complaints to business South-South 46.65 14.92 service units. The ombudsman also offers training on root causes Apapa 45.97 29.19 of complaints and litigation and examines case studies of complaints with the aim of reducing the level of complaints Abuja/North-Central 45.79 17.75 across the Bank. The ombudsman further circulates an Annual Lagos Mainland 40.50 28.41 Report of complaints learning points received during the year VI/Ikoyi 35.53 21.88 with the same aim of removing potential causes of complaints Port Harcourt 33.14 16.31 and ultimately reducing the overall level of such complaints. Average 45.87 20.88 The ombudsman is a board member of the International Ombudsman Association – a body of ombudsmen who 5-Star network on the nature of complaints and their causes, and The Bank achieved an NPS Customer Loyalty rating of 45.87% who share insights into solutions to complaints at workshops and Switch Rate of 20.88% in 2011, compared to the 2010 and conferences. figures of 38.30% and 18.06% respectively. This shows that the level of customers willing to recommend us to others increased, The customers’ ombudsman can be reached through although the propensity for customers to switch also went up. any branch of Access Bank by either filling in a designated The general customer satisfaction level was at 4-Star on a 5-Star form or by handing over the complaint to the customer care rating scale. The common customer dissatisfaction issues officer at any branch of Access Bank. Complaints can also be experienced across the Bank are highlighted below: filed online by sending an e-mail to: complaints.ombudsman@accessbankplc.com • Delay in cheque confirmation; • Reluctance of staff to attend to customers; • Frequent system downtime; Access Bank Plc Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2011 24 To show our appreciation to customers, season’s greetings were sent at Christmas via SMS, e-cards and ATM display machines Customers • Increased time to process a customer’s transaction; FY2010 vs. FY2011 • Long queues in banking halls; Service quality • Requirement for customer care unit need to be more friendly; performance trend • • Customers not informed of branch relocations; and Errors or other irregularities in bank statements. for branch services 3.53 +2.4% Customer 3.59 Services Project 5-Star performance improvement scheme 4.41 FY2011 Telephone Project 5-Star is a survey-based performance improvement 3.48 Etiquette FY2010 scheme launched in May 2008 with the aim of enhancing service 3.71 delivery throughout the Bank across 4 critical success factors: 3.90 Ambience customer service, ambience, turnaround time and error rate. 4.25 Turnaround All units and branches are expected to take part in Project 5-Star. 3.90 Time Project 5-Star Results for Access Bank branches 4.56 Error Rate Over 250 mystery shopping and branch visits were conducted 3.67 in 2011 with a view to ensuring a consistent improvement 3.80 Overall in service to the point at which the Bank can claim to offer 3.71 Rating a 5-Star standard in all of its 310 branches and cash centres. The top graph depicts the 2010 vs. 2011 comparative 2011 Project 5-Star performance for the Bank’s branches. ratings for our branches: distribution of ratings The data shows that telephone etiquette, error rate and between 1-Star and 5-Star turnaround time (TAT) improved by 26.72%, 24.25% and 8.97% respectively from 2010 to 2011. However, customer service and ambience decreased by 1.67% and 4.87% respectively. Overall service quality improved marginally by 2.4% in 2011 4-Star over 2010. The Bank achieved an overall rating of 3-Star for 3-Star branch services across the network. 2-Star Implications 1-Star 5-Star The improvement in turnaround time and error rate will reduce the waiting time and long queues experienced in the banking hall. This should result in higher patronage and repeat business, which in turn should bring higher income. Although the level of customer service and ambience slightly decreased, we have taken active measures to reverse the trend by training staff in the expanded network and improving the façade at our branches. Resolution The minimum acceptable service quality rating for our branches in 2012 is 4.5-Star. Therefore, the focus for 2012 is to enhance service delivery via intensive training of new staff, improve branch façades, revitalise the Project 5-Star Performance Improvement Access Bank Plc Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2011 25 Customers During customer service continued week in 2011, the Bank took the opportunity to communicate its commitment to quality service and generally boost employee morale, motivation and teamwork Scheme and introduce service quality volunteers to uphold quality standards at the branches. 2011 Project 5-Star ratings for our Commercial Banking Division Commercial Banking Results Division: distribution The staff’s level of confidentiality was good at 89.30 – this is of ratings between equivalent to a 4-Star rating. Customer service, comprising staff 1-Star and 5-Star conduct, product knowledge and reliability, was average at 70.32 – equivalent to a 3-Star rating. Overall performance for the Bank’s Commercial Banking Division was 3-Star. 1-Star 2-Star Retail Banking Division 3-Star Results 4-Star The staff’s level of confidentiality was very good at 96.66% 5-Star – equivalent to a 5-Star rating. Customer service (staff conduct, helpfulness, product knowledge and reliability) was much lower at 68.74, only a 2-Star rating. Overall performance for the Bank’s Retail Banking Division was 3-Star. Head office units 2011 Project 5-Star Over 80 reviews were carried out in head office units to assess ratings for our Retail Project 5-Star service quality. The top bar chart on page 27 Banking Division: depicts the comparative performance between 2010 and 2011. distribution of ratings Results between 1-Star and 5-Star There was an improvement in all Project 5-Star critical success factors with an overall improvement of 14.75% for the head office units. 5-Star Subsidiaries 4-Star The Project 5-Star Performance Improvement Scheme was 3-Star conducted for the subsidiaries in February 2010 and assessments 2-Star used the same parameters of speed of service delivery, error-free 1-Star processing, customer service and ambience. The aim once again was to improve service delivery. Access Bank Plc Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2011 26 Cross Section of Participants at the Cervical Cancer Symposium Customers Results FY2010 vs. FY2011 The general customer satisfaction level for subsidiaries in general Performance for head was 4-Star on a 5-Star rating scale. However, they experienced office units very low customer loyalty rates as shown below: NPS Customer loyalty (%) Switch rate (%) 3.43 Customer Country (Net promoters) (Propensity to switch) 3.38 Services Ghana 32.66 26.37 4.01 Telephone FY2011 Zambia 25.11 24.70 3.40 Etiquette FY2010 Sierra Leone 25.01 19.57 3.66 Ambience Gambia 24.39 22.77 3.42 D. R. Congo 24.38 24.48 3.92 Error Rate Rwanda 17.74 24.17 3.39 Average 24.88 23.67 3.52 Turnaround 3.03 Time Resolution 3.81 Overall The focus for 2012 will be to improve on customer service delivery. 3.32 Rating Customer service week The Bank joined the global community in celebration of the HY2011 vs. FY2011 annual customer service week. The 2011 version of the event Service quality was themed Recharge, Refresh and Reconnect and this was the performance trend fourth time the Bank took the opportunity to communicate its for subsidiaries commitment to quality service, heighten awareness among 3.68 employees of customer service, and generally boost employee 4.05 Ambience morale, motivation and teamwork. 4.25 Telephone HY2011 Activities 4.23 Etiquette FY2011 The programme for the week included the following: 4.24 Customer 4.24 Services • Customers received service week greetings via e-mail, SMS and ATM display messages; 4.55 Error Rate 4.71 • Thank you cards signed by Aigboje Aig-Imoukhuede (the Bank’s Group Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer) 4.96 Turnaround 4.93 Time were handed out to customers; 4.34 Overall • Branches were decorated with balloons and ribbons in the 4.43 Rating Bank’s corporate colours and staff members at the branches were dressed with a touch of orange; • Customers were served with tea and cookies between the hours of 8:30 a.m. and 11:30 a.m.; • Senior management staff served in various frontline capacities at our branches to improve customer engagement; • Branches held ‘Pick-and-Win’ contests for customers; and • TGIF was held by all the branches as a form of appreciation of their hard work in serving customers. Access Bank Plc Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2011 27 Customers By 2015, we aim to provide continued 1 million kids with the grounding in financial literacy they need to lead financially secure lives Feedback Customer engagement campaign Customers were excited about this special treatment and for Access Advantage feedback received included: The Bank ran a successful customer engagement campaign for its Access Advantage savings account product entitled “Take “This is very interesting, I have never experienced this before The Lead”. Running from June 2010 to end of March 2011, the even in the bank I work in.” promotion rewarded loyal customers who built their balances “I did not expect to win anything out of the numerous customers by N50,000 and maintained their balance for 60 days. During that visited the branch today, I am grateful.” the campaign, 25 Peugeot 407 cars were awarded as prizes to the lucky winners. A grand finale was held in April 2011 to “I enjoy the service l get from you people. Since I started banking reward the last 5 lucky winners. with you, I have had no issues.” To ensure the credibility of the selection process, the draw was “Let me go and withdraw my money from other banks and bring witnessed by Mrs Ngozika Obidike, Consumer Protection Council it to Access Bank.” (CPC), Mrs Toyin Daramola of the Lagos State Lotteries Board, The Access brand was reinforced through the week as a truly journalists and employees from the Bank. service-oriented organisation. A better celebration in 2012 is in End of year activities the making. The Christmas and New Year celebrations gave us another opportunity to show appreciation to our customers for their Communications and promotions patronage and support during the year through a programme We recognise that marketplace perceptions and reactions to that included the following features: business behaviour are critical to corporate success. We therefore engage in responsible marketing and advertising, using the • Season’s greetings sent to customers via SMS, e-cards, media as a communication tool that positions the Bank as a publications and ATM display messages; choice for all our Stakeholders. Our marketing practices focus • Christmas carols played in banking halls; on building and maintaining sustainable, long-term relationships • Staff members wearing Santa hats to capture the with our customers and relevant Stakeholders, while avoiding Christmas mood; misleading marketing and advertising. • Refreshments served to customers; and Our marketing communication strategy provides an overall framework for managing and co-ordinating a wide variety • Gifts handed out to visiting customers at the branches. of activities that directly or indirectly inform and engage A number of customers congratulated the Bank for expressing Stakeholders. It addresses communicators, Stakeholders, its appreciation their patronage and loyalty. messages, channels, feedback mechanisms and message timing, while mapping out links between all these aspects. This Strategy Valentine’s Day celebration ensures that the Bank provides relevant, accurate and consistent The Bank also marked the celebration of Valentine’s Day with information on its activities. customers in the year 2011 with the following programme: Our approach to responsible marketing communications is to • Chocolates were offered to visiting retail customers at the adhere to prevailing national laws, standards and voluntary Bank’s branches; codes covering any form of advertising, promotion and • Account officers distributed cards and chocolates to sponsorship. In line with this, the Bank adheres strictly to the commercial customers; and laws and provisions of the Advertising Practitioners Council of • Valentine messages were sent out to customers via SMS Nigeria – APCON – that regulates and controls advertising and e-mails. practices in Nigeria. Access Bank Plc Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2011 28 We have over 1,500 Automated Teller Machines Customers Financial inclusion The CBN Anti-Money Laundering/Counter Terrorism Financing We have a proud tradition of helping generations of young (AML/CFT) Compliance Manual also states that financial people learn about the importance of saving and smart money institutions should develop employee training programmes management. By 2015, we aim to provide 1 million kids with the under the guidance of the AML/CFT Compliance Officer. In grounding in financial literacy they need to lead financially secure collaboration with Senior Management, they are required to give lives. One of the main ways we have committed to this goal is by training on basic elements of anti-money laundering regulations establishing series of products which encourage savings from the and offences, money laundering and suspicious transactions, cradle to adulthood. customer due diligence, record keeping and retention policy, and related money laundering issues. Our Early Savers account The Bank’s long-standing commitment to financial inclusion is Regular AML/CFT training programmes for bank employees is evident through our partnership with Nickleodeon’s Dora the of paramount importance because banks are one of the major Explorer and the introduction of the bespoke Access Early Savers channels through which the proceeds of money laundering account. This new product aims to ensure that every child has are channelled. access to sound and impartial money guidance from the Training in anti-money laundering earliest age. In response to the CBN’s requirements, we run a range of Our Early Savers account aims to help society by: training programmes to ensure our employees have the skills and knowledge required to help combat corruption and money • Contributing to the social and/or economic development laundering. This training aims as follows: of children; • Reducing inter-generational poverty; • To ensure compliance with the requirements of the Money Laundering (Prohibition) Act, 2004 and the Central Bank AML/ • Helping a child accumulate assets at an early age; CFT Regulation 2009; • Motivating young people to enter formal financial systems so • To acquaint employees with the use of ‘know-your-customer’ that they build assets in their youth and throughout their adult as a business tool and anti-money laundering international lives, in a way that ultimately leads to economic and social best practices standards; advancement for themselves and their families; • To provide an interactive session for capacity development and • Protecting children from future economic shocks and helping beneficial information sharing among members of staff on them build a store of resources for future investments; and AML/CFT related issues; and • Promoting overall development within society. • To educate members of staff on Money Laundering ‘red flags’ Our Early Savers product gives our young customers an easy, fun and suspicious transactions. and interactive way of learning about the money management Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption skills they will use for the rest of their lives. Through this We have also established a set of procedures for responding to programme, kids can bank at school and so gain a hands-on incidents where we believe there is evidence of corruption. banking experience in a fun and interactive environment. The first step it to undertake an investigation into any allegation of corruption. If our findings give us cause for concern, we refer Fighting corruption the matter to the police. We will also endeavour recover any Section 9 of the Money Laundering (Prohibition) Act 2004 losses that arise as a result of corruption. states that every financial institution must develop training programmes to combat the laundering of the proceeds of Monopoly practices crime or other illegal acts. In the year under review, there was no legal action against the Bank in connection with anti-competitive behaviour, anti-trust or monopoly practices. Access Bank Plc Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2011 29 Employees At Access Bank, we are encouraging a diverse workforce; respect for and appreciation of differences in ethnicity, gender, age, national origin, disability and religion People are the core of our business and our responsible human resource management practices are designed to accommodate the needs of each employee Building a high-performance workforce The Bank seeks to encourage a sense of ownership in all aspects of its business. We also ensure that our practices develop Key issues requisite professional and ethical behavioural standards, deliver superior client service, and embrace sound financial discipline in the marketplace while recognising and rewarding performance. Our objective is to have a well-motivated staff who experience career satisfaction and take pride in working for a respected organisation offering progressive career development. Recruitment criteria As a merit-driven organisation, the Bank is committed to Building a high-performance providing equality in employment for all staff. Quality and merit workforce are the primary considerations when recruiting and this cannot Our responsible human resources be compromised. practices help our staff to develop At the entry level positions, we are interested in young, to their full potential. energetic, results-oriented and highly intelligent individuals with For further details a demonstrable passion for joining our team of high-performing please see page 30 professionals. Their career journey begins with a 4-month intensive training course at our Banking School of Excellence. Diversity and human rights In terms of hiring people with existing work experience, we look We pride ourselves on implementing for ambitious, self-motivated individuals with leadership qualities best-in-class workplace policies who are inspired to exceed customer expectations. and practices. For further details please see page 30 The Bank recruits via a web based e-recruitment portal which provides a platform for equality and transparency in the Employee engagement recruitment process. At our Banking School of Excellence, the We engage our employees through performance of each trainee is set against clear and objectively a range of strategic initiatives. defined benchmarks, which in turn determine the trainee’s For further details absorption into the organisation and subsequent evaluation. please see page 32 Diversity and human rights Employee satisfaction and The Bank is committed to respecting human rights in all its motivation business activities through compliance with national laws and Our Annual Employee Survey in labour legislation. Our workplace policies and practices are continues to demonstrate aimed at shaping corporate culture and guiding relationships the success of our human between the Bank and its Stakeholder groups. resources strategies. For further details please see page 32 Female empowerment We are providing women in our workforce with the support they need to build their careers. For further details please see page 35 Access Bank Plc Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2011 30 Access Bank employees advocating the theme ‘Getting to Zero’ during the 2011 World AIDS Day Employees Individual rights Our policies support the rights of the individual as expressed in the International Bill for Human Rights, which comprises the 1948 United Nations Universal Declaration of Human Rights – UNUDHR – and the 2, 1966 International Covenants on Human Rights. The UNUDHR contains internationally accepted standards for human rights and applies to governments and businesses. The general principles related to business practices are: • Safe and healthy working conditions; • Non-discrimination in personnel and hiring practices; • No forced or child labour; • Rights to basic health, education and housing (if operations are located in areas where these are not provided); • Respect for existing international guidelines and standards for the use of force; • Protecting the economic livelihood of local communities; and • Contributing to the public debate about matters that affect our operations, employees, customers and the communities in which we operate. The Bank has a responsibility to ensure that human rights are upheld in all its lending decisions, all its interactions with staff and those of suppliers and contractors through procurement and supply chain management. Access Bank Plc Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2011 31 Employees The Bank provides an continued enriching employee experience with opportunities to pursue rewarding and challenging work with talented and supportive colleagues, learning and development opportunities, benefits that have the flexibility to meet employees’ needs, fair and competitive compensation, and support for work/life effectiveness As a member of the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) the Meetings Bank is committed to upholding the 10 principles of the UNGC in We reinforce organisational culture and values, and strengthen respect of human rights, labour rights, environmental protection internal communication, through different meetings. A calendar and anti-corruption. The Global Compact seeks to promote of corporate meetings is displayed on the Bank’s intranet. In responsible corporate citizenship, so that businesses can form 2011, this calendar included management meetings, meetings part of the solution to the challenges of globalisation. for MDs of the Bank’s subsidiaries, and other similar events. Eliminating discrimination and encouraging diversity The Bank has measures to eliminate discrimination and Employee satisfaction and motivation encourage cross cultural interaction, as well as tolerance of The objectives of the 2011 Employee Satisfaction Survey diversity. The non-discriminatory practices extend to the Bank’s were as follows: hiring and recruitment activities. • To measure the level of employee satisfaction in 2011 We are committed to upholding ethical practices across our and understand how the trend has changed from 2009; operations and will not engage in forced or compulsory labour, • To conduct a health-check of the bank from the perspective or take part in direct operations that involve child labour. of employees; and In 2011, we launched a programme to ensure a higher • To obtain insight into what motivates employees and what recruitment rate of people from the northern part of Nigeria. drives workforce attrition levels in Nigeria. This initiative aims to increase the proportion of the Bank’s total workforce from the northern region, which currently stands at Participation a very low level. The participation rate was 73% as against a plan of 85%. There was a 7% drop in the participation rate against 2010. Employee engagement The top and bottom Groups are as shown below. As key Stakeholders, employees are actively engaged and managed through a range of initiatives. Participation rate Recognition and rewards (Top groups) The Bank recognises and rewards employees who make % significant contributions to the organisation at 3 different 100 Cement levels: contribution to team, to division and to the bottom line. 100 HR We also have a long-service award to recognise staff who have 95 Fincon completed 5 and 10 years’ service with the Bank. 92 Corporate Counsel Retreats 90 Corporate Comms The Bank periodically holds retreats off-site in order to 90 ITQM engage employees in strategy and organisational development. 90 CPC A number of divisions held retreats during 2011. Participation rate (Bottom 5 groups) % 52 CBD – West 50 Market Risk 48 CBD – North 48 CBD – Lagos 44 CBD – South East Access Bank Plc Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2011 32 Staff at the Agric Workshop during the Nigeria Sustainable Finance Week Staff at the Environmental and Social Risk Management Workshop Employees Satisfaction index Core competence The overall satisfaction level for Nigeria has remained stable over ratings the last 3 years at 3.5. However in absolute terms, there was an improvement in 2011 (74.2%) over 2010 (71.5%). Satisfaction index Work Ethics by grade Diversity Officer Career Opp Mid Mgt Culture Top Mgt My Mgr Executive Org Structure 2011 All Staff 2010 2009 Safety 0.0 1.0 2.0 3.0 4.0 5.0 6.0 Senior Mgt Satisfaction index by division Team Dynamics Commercial Co-Workers Banking Enterprise Job Security resource Group Financial Comp & Ben Markets Institutional HR Banking Retail Recognition 2011 Transaction 2010 Training Services 2009 0 1 2 3 4 5 2011 Work-life 2010 2009 0.0 0.5 1.0 1.5 2.0 2.5 3.0 3.5 4.0 4.5 5.0 Access Bank Plc Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2011 33 Employees In 2011, management continued approved the launch of a Female Network with the aim of providing women within Access Bank with the opportunities, tools, networks and support they require to assume future leadership roles within the organisation Core competence – areas of concern Supervisors There were 5 core competencies with satisfaction levels below 3. • Supervisors should focus on rewarding good behaviour rather They are: than punishing poor behaviour; Core competency Score • Supervisors should also be courteous and more empathetic 1 HR function 2.5 in dealing with subordinates; and 2 Compensation and benefits 2.5 • A bottom-up approach to decision making and issues 3 Recognition 2.5 resolution should be encouraged. 4 Training 2.5 5 Work-life balance 1.0 Performance management • Performance management and reward systems should be There was a decline in work-life balance from 1.5 to 1; while transparent and consistent across different divisions; compensation and benefits reduced from a score of 3 to 2.5. • The input of direct supervisors should be given more consideration in appraisals (especially in Branch Services); and Summary of comments • Promotion guidelines should be made clearer as there is a Culture and climate perception promotions are generally delayed. • Access Bank should continue to take the pulse of staff and explore other opportunities for open communication; Safety and work environment • The IT infrastructure needs to be enhanced to reduce system • The Bank should continue to build an employer brand in order downtime. to attract and retain the best talent in the industry and culture of respect and co-operation should be embedded throughout Training the organisation; and • Staff do not receive the training required for them to operate • Work-life balance is very poor across the Group: working at the level required of them. extended/late hours, weekends and/or public holidays should • While there are good self-education and online resources be discouraged. available, work pressure means there is little time to use these. Compensation and benefits • The Bank should enhance remuneration practices through Staff attrition: January – December 2011 salary increases, mortgage loan increases, and greater Mid Top Total Attrition Division Officer Mgt Mgt Mgt Exec Resignation % flexibility in loan security. Operations 26 1 2 1 30 7.94% HR issues CBD 60 10 3 1 74 21.70% • Poor staff retention: low morale and motivation among staff; IBG 5 2 7 11.86% • Frequency and duration of meetings need to be reduced; FMD 8 1 1 10 23.26% Retail Banking 10 2 12 8.22% • HR needs to be more approachable and interactive; Enterprise 18 4 1 1 24 13.26% • Staff should be made to feel more secure and their personal Risk Management 13 4 1 3 21 18% concerns given more consideration; Total Resignation • Inadequate staffing levels as well as an experience and skills (YTD) 140 22 10 6 0 178 deficit; and Staff strength as at 30 November 956 158 100 42 8 1264 • HR can increase staff confidence by addressing the results of Attrition 14.64% 13.92% 10.00% 14.29% 0% 14.08% the survey. Access Bank Plc Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2011 34 Aigboje Aig-Imoukhuede, Group Cross Section of staff at the Bank’s Managing Director at the Bank’s End of Year Party End of Year Party Employees Benefits to full-time employees Key activities The Bank’s practices on benefits to its employees are as follows: S/N Activities Detailed task • Club subscription – AGMs and above; 1 Mentoring • Female Mentorship Programme to encourage women to seek top management positions and to help them • Financial assistance: prepare for such positions; • Coaching sessions that provides candid feedback on −− Personal loan – all staff with SIT and subject to development needs; and confirmation requirements • Counselling sessions. −− Salary advance – all staff with SIT and subject to 2 Capability • Identifying growth opportunities such as the development development of emotional intelligence to improve confirmation requirements competencies; −− Vehicle loan – ETs to Managers • Identifying and providing in-house training courses to develop leadership capabilities; and −− Mortgage loan – SMs and above • Success planning by defining each woman’s concept of success and supporting them in creating a roadmap −− Staff credit card – staff with SIT; that will allow them to achieve their selected success. • Group insurance; 3 Annual • An annual network event that will address topics of networking general interest to women in the bank and enhance • Leave – Annual leave, length leave, assorted leave, events their productivity in the Bank; and maternity leave, sick leave, examination leave; • Sponsorship of mid-management women and high-potential women to other high-power female • Relocation allowance; networks, for example WimBiz. • Welfare benefits; and 4 Cluster • Forums for women to outline challenges encountered network in the workplace so they can receive support from other • Pension scheme. events women who have been through similar situations. Female empowerment In 2011, management approved the launch of a Female Network with the aim of providing women within Access Bank with the opportunities, tools, networks and support they require to assume future leadership roles within the organisation. Objectives • Enhance women’s professional growth by providing information on coaching, career paths, flexibility and role models; • Develop new and existing talent; • Foster the retention and promotion of women especially at officer and mid-management; • Improve the Bank’s ability to attract, develop and retain women from diverse backgrounds; and • Cultivate leadership competencies. Access Bank Plc Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2011 35 Environment We have embarked on environmentally friendly initiatives and we are irrevocably committed to reducing our carbon footprint Throughout our operations, there is a strong commitment to minimise the Group’s impact on the environment Our environmental impact We take our role in supporting the transition to more sustainable uses of natural resources very seriously. The Bank recognises that business growth implicitly depends on a stable future for human society so we support any responsible effort that protects and conserves the environment. As a financial services group, we have both direct and indirect impacts on society and the environment. In respect of both of these, our goal is to improve the way we use resources and curtail environmental impacts. Direct environmental impacts: Operational areas that involve the management of energy use, paper use, waste management, and procurement. In managing our direct impact, we have developed systems and processes to reduce our environmental footprint. In addition, we have raised environmental awareness among our Stakeholders, particularly our employees and suppliers. The environmental management system enables us to track and manage environment-related aspects of our operations such as energy, water, carbon emissions and waste management. Indirect environmental impacts: Developing products and services with an environmental dimension, and factoring in the environmental and social risks of the Bank’s policies. We manage our indirect impact by screening corporate banking loans to ensure that the customers we lend to manage the social and environmental risks associated with their activities. We impact directly on the environment in our daily business activities through our consumption of energy. Climate change We advocate a proactive response as tackling climate change will require a concerted effort between government, business and individuals. The impacts of climate change can already be seen and there is no question that climate change will continue to impact our customers and our own operations, which is why the issue is central to our business strategy. The Bank has embarked on new environmentally friendly initiatives and we are irrevocably committed to reducing our carbon footprint. Access Bank Plc Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2011 36 Key issues in the marketplace Our environmental impact We are managing both the direct and indirect aspects of our environmental impact. For further details please see page 36 Climate change A range of initiatives are helping to reduce our carbon footprint. For further details please see page 36 Sustainable finance We follow best practice in Investor Statement managing project finance. The Investor Statement on a Global Agreement on Climate Change was originally produced by a group of four investor and For further details please see page 38 finance sector associations: the United Nations Environment Programme Finance Initiative (UNEP FI); the Investor Network on Energy consumption Climate Risk (INCR); the Institutional Investors Group on Climate Managing energy usage is Change (IIGCC); and the Investor Group on Climate Change/ Environment a cornerstone of our aim to Australia and New Zealand (IGCC). The statement was issued in become more sustainable. 2008 in the run-up to the UN Framework Convention on Climate Change in Copenhagen in December, 2009. For further details please see page 39 The Bank, as a committed member of the United Nations Water usage Environment Programme Finance Initiative (UNEP FI), signed on We are working to reduce to the statement at that time to demonstrate the importance our water footprint. that investors attach to a strong, credible and effective global agreement on climate change. For further details please see page 39 This statement continues today to reflect our own stance as a business on climate change. It outlines in detail what investors Business transport are looking for from policymakers in order to allocate capital in a We have utilised our fleet to way that supports both the transformation to a low carbon economy minimise our carbon footprint in and the development of adaptation measures. This includes: the environment. For further details please see page 39 • A binding global target for reducing greenhouse gas emissions, the reductions are informed by the latest available Paper and materials scientific evidence for avoiding dangerous climate change We are controlling how the (which suggests that global greenhouse gas emissions must Bank consumes paper. decline by between 50% and 85% by 2050 versus 2000); For further details • Longand medium-term emissions reduction targets for please see page 40 developed countries which will be backed up by effective national action plans; Environmental, social and corporate governance integration • Contributions from developing countries, initially in the These considerations remain at the form of national action plans focused on energy efficiency forefront in the Bank’s daily life. commitment, but with the ultimate aim of absolute emissions reductions; For further details please see page 40 • Continuity in the legally binding framework underpinning the carbon market and provisions for an expanded and more E&S issues in investment liquid global carbon market; and risk management • A review, reform, and expansion of the Clean Development We organised a pioneering Nigeria Mechanism; Sustainable Finance Week. • Clear measures to reverse deforestation and value forests as For further details carbon sinks; and please see page 40 • A commitment to adaptation in order to prepare for, and respond to, the physical impacts of climate change. Access Bank Plc Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2011 37 Environment Our use of video conferencing continued in the Eastern and Northern regions of Nigeria has impacted hugely on our carbon footprint Carbon footprint management Environmental and Social Risk Management (ESRM) Policy Projects currently running as part of our footprint management The Bank has adopted an Environmental and Social Risk include: Management Policy (ESRM) which includes implementation of the Equator Principles for its transactions and which, Paperless processes: To reduce cumbersome paperwork, we through the International Finance Corporation’s environmental have invested in a ‘workstation’ software that automates basic and social performance standards, addresses issues such as bank operations and processes; labour and working conditions, community health and safety, Paper usage: We have instituted and communicated paper land acquisitions and resettlement, and the treatment of usage policy, which advises staff to avoid printing. However, indigenous peoples. if necessary, printing should be done on both sides of a paper. Our ESRM Policy requires that all business operations and Where applicable, paper can be re-used. This has helped reduce lending decisions include consideration of risks such as climate paper wastage across the Bank; and change, including the physical risks resulting from extreme Energy reduction: our 8 o’clock shut-down policy and other weather and other changes. It also covers the impacts of clients’ energy reduction initiatives have seen the Bank make progress activities on biodiversity, deforestation, air pollution and water in its quest for environmental sustainability. pollution. We use our comprehensive ESRM Policy to screen transactions, advise clients, and promote environmentally and Sustainable finance socially sound ways of doing business. We manage the potential social and environmental risks The Bank has comprehensively reviewed its ESRM Policy with associated with our lending and investment by following input from relevant internal and external Stakeholders. This international standards of good practice, such as the Equator provides the framework, policy and procedures for assessing and Principles, which apply to project finance. managing E&S risk issues within all relevant business activities of We are also in the process of developing polices for lending the Bank. To this end, we apply the Equator Principles and the IFC to socially and environmentally sensitive sectors and creating Performance Standards to our project finance and other lending a toolkit to capture transaction impacts/risks, recommend transactions across our strategic business units. For loans, debt outcomes for risk management approaches, and define and equity underwriting, as well as financial advisories and monitoring and reporting requirements. derivative transactions that are project linked, the Bank applies an assessment technique that is broadly consistent with an Equator Principles for project finance Equator Principles approach. The Equator Principles (EP) Report is a framework to help financial institutions address potential environmental and social The Bank’s ESRM procedures comprise 6 distinct components risks when providing project finance loans or project finance for the management of environmental and social (E&S) risks advisory services. Since adopting the principles in June 2009, that emerge in our credit/investment cycle. Each component we have integrated the principles as a risk management measure represents a critical step in the Bank’s integrated ESRM approach when assessing which projects to finance. In addition, we have to the products and services we offer. These components are: put in place appropriate procedures that ensure total compliance 1. Screening; with the Principles. 2. Risk Assessment; 3. Due Diligence; 4. Decision and Documentation; 5. Monitoring; and 6. Reporting. Access Bank Plc Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2011 38 Access Bank employees Inclusion of sector specific policies used about 23,877,600.00 kWh of diesel-generated power Beyond the review of the Bank’s ESRM policy, specific policies based on 75% utilisation of generator-installed capacity. Energy for higher E&S risk exposure sectors (oil & gas, and cement) have saved due to conservation and efficiency improvements based been developed and deployed across the Bank. on the Bank’s 8:00 p.m. generator shut-down policy was 2,439,258.66 kWh while 2,984,700 kWh reduction was Evaluating project finance proposals achieved on indirect energy consumption. Our approach to We also use a web-based suite of decision-support tools to energy management is to minimise our CO2 emissions and enhance the screening of transactions by: Environment carbon footprint as much as possible within the confines of • Providing a framework for the identification and assessment our operating environment. of E&S impacts and risks according to financial product type, sector, client and country; Water usage • Capturing transaction impacts and risks and assessment The Bank’s water comes from 2 major sources: boreholes outcomes as a basis for developing management approaches and the Government (the state-owned Lagos State Water and reporting across the portfolio (internally and externally); and Corporation). This has a three-fold negative impact: it reduces this limited natural resource; it causes significant greenhouse gas • Offering potential solutions to mitigate E&S risks emissions through desalination processes and trucking of water; commensurate with the scale of impacts. and it contributes to other undesired vehicle emissions. In general, the toolkit will help the Bank to reduce the time Reducing our operational water footprint is part of our involved in managing and monitoring risk exposures. environmental strategy to solve the triple negative impact of The result is that the Bank’s project prospects are now screened water and we have put measures in place to report our water for inherent social and environment risks associated with the usage and how we recycle and discharge water. project and classified under the following, based on the outcome of the risk assessment: Business transport The Bank’s car fleet is managed by its General Resources Category A: High Risk: Projects with potential significant Management Group. We are always conscious of the hazards adverse social or environmental impacts that are diverse, of poor management of our fleet system and have taken steps irreversible or unprecedented; to minimise its impact on the environment, as follows: Category B: Medium Risk: Projects with potential limited • We provide buses to transport employees within different adverse social and environmental impacts that are few in regions to the Bank’s service outlets. This has helped reduce number, generally site specific, largely reversible and readily the daily use of personal cars by staff; addressed through mitigation measures; and • Our cars are constantly maintained and assessed to meet the Category C: Low Risk: Projects with minimal or no social minimum requirements of roadworthiness. The cars in our or environmental impacts. fleet are serviced regularly to ensure they produce minimum pollution; Energy consumption • We dispose of older cars that have deteriorated to the extent The Bank actively manages its energy consumption. We do that their use may impact negatively on the environment; and this as part of our continuing work on making the Bank more sustainable. We are mindful too of the rising cost of electricity • Our use of video conferencing in the Eastern and Northern in Nigeria. regions of Nigeria has impacted hugely on our carbon footprint. Video conferencing has helped to cut our travel costs. Our direct energy consumption from primary sources is from the Power Holding Company of Nigeria (PHCN). In 2011, Access Bank consumed about 10,272,021.33 kWh of PHCN power based on a billing tariff of N15/kWh for branches, head office and annexes (compared to 8,888,878.05 kWh in 2010). We also Access Bank Plc Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2011 39 Environment Access Bank makes a continued significant contribution to sustainability through its investments. These investments aim to set the highest standards of corporate governance and promote environmentally sound and sustainable development Paper and materials environmental and social considerations into investment We have long worked on reducing the paperwork involved and risk management decision-making; in our basic banking processes. In previous years, we purchased • Conducted Gap Analysis and identified policy, capacity software that negates the need for paperwork in certain development and reporting approach; processes. We have communicated to staff our paper usage • Conducted Cost Benefit Analysis (CBA) with findings covering policy, which includes printing on both sides of a sheet and identifiable non-financial terms as well as financial terms. printing memos on reused paper. Our practice of printing front These helped in accessing the total expected costs against the and back continues for all internal correspondence. The Bank expected benefits of implementing ESG considerations in our has also outsourced its printing and photocopying to reduce project financing and other lending activities; wastage. This initiative also ensures proper monitoring and tracking of printing and photocopying activities throughout • Customised sustainable finance tool kit to assist in capturing the Bank. Paper constitutes some 98% of materials consumed transaction impacts/risks, and determining recommendations by the Bank. as well as reporting requirements of lending activities; and • Developed polices for the cement and oil-and-gas sectors. All the paper we use is manufactured from recycled materials. The Bank consumed about 132,113 reams of paper in 2011, 2011 which is approximately 79,268kg at 0.6kg per ream. This • Initiated and implemented the first-ever Nigeria Sustainable compares to about 91,130.45 reams of paper consumed in Finance Week; 2010. The marked increase in the amount of stationery • Initiated the concept of the Nigerian Sustainable Banking consumed in 2011 was due to the Bank’s customer acquisition Principles; programme Operation Just Cause and the significant volume • Signed joint commitment statement on Nigerian Sustainable of work associated with completing the merger with Banking Principles with other financial institutions in Nigeria; Intercontinental Bank. • Secretariat to Strategic Sustainability Working Group (SSWG) Environmental, social and corporate governance with responsibility for developing the Nigerian Sustainable integration Banking Principles; In 2009, the Bank commenced the strategic integration of • Signed joint statement on Nigerian Sustainable Banking Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) issues into its Principles with member banks. business operations. The review takes all significant ESG issues into consideration while ensuring that our business operations E&S issues in investment and risk management do not degrade the environment or cause social harm. In 2009, As part of the Bank’s sustainability agenda, a workshop was the Bank signed up to the United Nations Global Compact organised for credit officers, analysts, risk officers, product (UNGC) and the Equator Principles (EP). The Bank has continued managers and E&S specialists of the Nigerian financial sector. to bring ESG issues to bear on its operations each year since that The workshop focused on the importance, as well as the time, as follows: effective techniques and consequential benefits, of incorporating environmental and social considerations into investment and 2009 risk management decision making. This was implemented in • Signed up to the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) and partnership with the FMO, IFC, African Development Bank and Equator Principles (EP); and Proparco. The workshop discussions reached the following • Trained employees in the dynamics of Environmental & Social conclusions: Risk Management. • Nigeria’s economy creates a specific range of E&S issues to 2010 be addressed by its banking sector; • Developed customised sustainable finance toolkit for assessing • E&S risk management helps to minimise the harmful E&S lending activities, in line with the Equator Principles (EP); impacts in banking; • Undertook capacity building for Nigerian financial institutions regarding techniques and benefits of incorporating Access Bank Plc Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2011 40 • E&S impacts represent financial, reputational and legal risks for banks; • Effectively managing these risks contributes towards the positioning of a financial institution with respect to competitors, clients and capital providers; • Understanding what lies behind E&S risks can create a foundation for developing products and services that address Environment the E&S issues of clients; • Setting up an E&S Risk Management System requires the following: −− Development of E&S policies and procedures which may be general, industry specific, issue specific, country specific. This should also contain an exclusion list −− Development and implementation of E&S risk assessment tools for clients and transactions Jekwu Ozoemene, Managing Director, Access Bank Zambia −− Integration of E&S policies, procedures and tools into Limited, Access Bank Plc at existing processes the Agric Workshop during the Nigeria Sustainable −− E&S due diligence for new and existing clients and Finance Week transactions −− Training and engagement of staff at all levels of seniority −− Measuring, monitoring and reporting E&S performance; • Through E&S risk management, individual financial institutions can: −− Differentiate from other institutions −− Engage with Stakeholders −− Gain access to capital −− Improve overall risk management −− Develop responsible business. CEO Roundtable at the Nigeria Sustainable Finance Week Access Bank Plc Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2011 41 Supply Chain Our procurement policies are inclusive and aim to promote sustainable business practices and economic development We are seeing good progress in making our supply chain more sustainable Key objectives and goals The Bank’s standard procurement framework facilitates proper assessment of our vendors and enhances our standing in the business community. We conduct assessments of vendors bi-annually in line with the Bank’s policy, examining the following criteria: 1. Track record; 2. Ethical values; 3. Geographical distribution; 4. Quality of service; 5. Price; and 6. Authorised dealership. Redflag Redflag is an indication that the vendor’s service is not up to standard and needs to be monitored over the subsequent appraisal period. However, if there are no changes after a series of letters and meetings, which will indicate the vendor is facing challenges maintaining its contract, a recommendation will be made to management to remove the supplier from the Bank’s official vendor list. Spending tracking system The Bank purchased software which integrates project budgeting, purchase orders, invoices, labour, and material tracking with the Work Order/Work Request System. Currently, requisitions for items are routed via this system. This will enable the Bank to track its procurement spend as well as provide analysis, which will aid future planning. The aim is that in the next 2 years the Bank’s entire procurement process will be fully automated. In addition, the Bank’s Operational Risk Management Unit also conducts due diligence on vendors to ensure they meet the Bank’s standards and requirements. The Bank also sets KPIs for vendors and ensures that they comply with these. Access Bank Plc Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2011 42 Engaging suppliers Vendors are engaged through the following means: 1. Quarterly meetings; 2. Site visits; and 3. An invitation to our Annual General Meeting. Quarterly meetings – agenda 1. Vendor’s performance and improvement; 2. Bank’s performance; 3. Payment terms; and 4. CSR issues: • Child labour; • Business ethics; • Eco friendly equipment; and Supply Chain • CSR activities. Access Bank Plc Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2011 43 Communities Key issues in the marketplace Access Bank is changing lives and impacting The fight against AIDS, communities through TB and malaria in its social investments sub-Saharan Africa We are at the forefront of the private sector response to this triple pandemic. For further details please see page 44 Health education in the workplace The Bank has delivered success in health training to thousands of SMEs across Africa. The Bank focuses on Health, the Arts, Education, Environment, and Sports. It engages with relevant Stakeholders to address For further details 45 community issues while encouraging employees to please see page contribute ideas, skills and resources through its Employee Community engagement Volunteering scheme. with deforestation Our tree-planting campaign is The fight against AIDS, TB and spurring students to take action. malaria in Sub-Saharan Africa For further details In terms of AIDS, TB and malaria, sub-Saharan Africa remains please see page 46 the worst-affected region in the world, hosting two-thirds of the total number of people infected by the triple pandemic. People Employee volunteering aged between 15 and 24 are among the hardest hit, with this Our employees show real passion section of the population reporting the greatest number of new when it comes to serving their infections. Since this same demographic represents the future local communities. workforce of African economies, the triple pandemic poses a For further details serious threat to Africa’s economic growth. please see page 48 The impact of AIDS, TB and malaria on the private sector is particularly complex. The short-term and long-term business costs are inevitably high since they reduce consumption, profits, tax revenue and investment, result in shrinkage of intellectual capital, institutional memory and business contacts/networks, and affect the quality of essential services. Best conducted as a partnership between government, private sector, and labour organisations, the fight against AIDS, TB and malaria is clearly for the public good as the pandemic can significantly affect social and economic development. The Bank has been at the forefront of the private sector response through a number of initiatives that address the United Nations Millennium Development Goal 6 – Combating HIV/AIDS, Malaria and other diseases. Specific initiatives have involved capacity building, education about disease prevention, treatment, care and support, as well as communications and networking in all the countries in which the Bank operates. These have sought to reduce the effect of the pandemic on employees, their families, supply chains, clients and society in general. The Bank strongly believes that with adequate information, people can be helped to understand the diseases, so that they in turn prevent transmission and ultimately become non-discriminatory towards other people living with HIV/AIDS. Access Bank Plc Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2011 44 Over 1,600 students from 40 secondary schools were inspired to reduce CO2 emissions in their schools, at home and throughout their local communities Facilitator at the Bank’s SME Workplace Policy Programme Highlights of our work: • In addressing the triple pandemic, the Bank has been able to reach about 400,000 people with relevant prevention and treatment information via platforms such as its website, ATMs, talk-shops and community outreach programmes; and • Currently, Access Bank is partnering with the Discovery Channel Global Education Partnership (DCGEP) on the production of a prevention and educational film entitled Inside Story – The Science of HIV/AIDS. A comprehensive, multi-year distribution strategy will help the film to reach as many as 300 million people. Health education in the workplace Working in partnership with Friends of the Global Fund Africa in the last quarter of 2011, the Bank conducted a workshop series that trained 1,250 small and medium enterprises (SMEs) in developing workplace policy and programmes on AIDS, TB and malaria. The training was conducted in Zambia, Rwanda, Nigeria and Ghana. These SMEs will help some 22,500 employees and 90,000 of their dependents in making informed behavioural and medical choices that help prevent the spread of the triple pandemic. The four-country workshop series follows the inaugural programme in Nigeria. In a continent where one-third of SMEs expect AIDS, TB and malaria will have a negative impact on their business in the coming year, the workshop series is a powerful way of helping Communities African business. This initiative gives African companies the tools they need to address the 3 pandemics with the aim of mitigating the worst effects and promoting a strong African private sector. Delegates expressed strong appreciation for the aims and content of the workshop series. Students reading through the Bank’s HIV/AIDS brochure during the school education programme Access Bank Plc Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2011 45 Communities Participants at the SME continued Workplace Policy Programme Workshop learnt about the statistics on HIV/AIDS, TB and Malaria in their countries as well as the qualitative and quantitative impacts these diseases have on the African workforce and workplace Policies and implementation Minister of Health, Dr Agnes Binagwaho. Also attending were The workshops taught participants about workplace policies and Mr Faustin Mbundu, the Chairman of the Rwanda Private Sector how to implement them. Delegates learnt about the statistics on Federation, Ms Omobolanle Babatunde, Head of CSR at Access HIV/AIDS, TB and malaria in their countries, as well as the Bank, Mr Jackie Kayitshonga of Access Bank Rwanda, and Mr qualitative and quantitative impacts these diseases have on the Richard Kasesela, the President of the Pan-African Business African workforce and workplace. They studied how appropriate, Coalition. evidence-based workplace policies can manage and mitigate the Lagos, Nigeria impact of the 3 diseases and heard how government, NGOs and Workshops were held in 4 locations at Victoria Island, Ikeja, Yaba other private sector organisations can support Zambian, and Apapa. At the opening ceremony in Victoria Island on 2 Rwandan, Nigerian and Ghanaian businesses in fighting these November, dignitaries included the First Lady of Lagos State, Mrs pandemics. The workshops also looked at the cultural barriers Abimbola Fashola, Mrs Bukky Holloway, CEO of Access Bank, Ms to addressing AIDS, TB and malaria, with a focus on the cultural Omobolanle Babatunde, Head of CSR at Access Bank, and Dr Akudo values around these 3 diseases and how to overcome stigma and Anyanwu Ikemba, CEO/Founder Friends of the Global Fund Africa. involve men further in family health. Also present at the opening ceremony were Dr Tolu Arowolo, who Technical partners stood in for the Country Director of the World Health Organization, Key technical partners involved in the workshop are: Mr Effiong Eno, representative of the Director General of the National Agency for the Control of AIDS, Mr Olusina Olulana, • Global Business Coalition for Health (GBCHealth); Executive Secretary of the Nigerian Business Coalition against AIDS, • Nigeria Business Coalition Against AIDS; and Lagos State Agency for the Control of AIDS. • Ghana Business Coalition Against AIDS; Accra, Ghana • Rwanda Biomedical Centre; The workshop took place on 22 November at the Holiday Inn, • Zambia National AIDS Council; Accra Airport. It was attended by Hon. Joseph Yileh Chereh, • National Agency for the Control of AIDS (NACA) Nigeria; The Honourable Minister of Health, Dr Akram Ali Eltom, Director, Partnerships Unit (The Global Fund), Dr Richard Amenya from • National Malaria Control Programme, Ghana; Ghana AIDS Commission, Mr Yomi Akapo, Managing Director, • Lagos State AIDS Control Agency; Access Bank Plc Ghana, Dr Derek Aryee of the Ghana Business • Zambia Federation of Employees; Coalition, Dr Constance Bart-Plange, National Malaria Control • Rwanda Private Sector Federation; and Programme, and Mr Austin Edoja-Peters, Head, Corporate Communications, Access Bank Plc. • Ghana AIDS Commission. Lusaka, Zambia Tree planting – Going Green, Beyond Words The Bank is partnering with Idea Builders Initiative in support of The workshop was held on 17 October in the Intercontinental Hotel a nationwide tree planting campaign called ”Going Green, Beyond and was opened by the Honourable Deputy Minister of Health, Words”. The aim is to inhibit global warming and protect the Dr Patrick Chikusu. Other dignitaries included Ms Omobolanle environment from deforestation and encroachment of deserts. Babatunde, Head of CSR, Access Bank, Mrs Mukwandi The campaign commenced in 2009 and the Bank is now seeking Chibesakunda, CEO of Access Bank Zambia, Bishop Joshua Banda, to take this initiative across Nigeria and on into other parts of the Chairman of the National HIV/AIDS/TB/STI Council (NAC), Africa, and to mobilise young people to take ownership of the and Ms Patience Sakuringwa, Executive Secretary of the Zambia programme. In 2011, the campaign focused on 2 states in Nigeria: Chamber of Small and Medium Business Associations. Niger State in the north central geopolitical zone, and Sokoto Kigali, Rwanda State, a frontline state in the north west geopolitical zone. During In Rwanda, the workshop took place at the Serena Hotel, Kigali the year under review, more than 2,000 trees were planted while on 21 October. The Director General of Centre National de la over 1,600 students from 40 secondary schools were inspired to Lutte contre le SIDA (CNLS), Dr Anita Asimwe, opened reduce CO2 emissions in their schools, at home and throughout proceedings with a speech on behalf of Rwanda’s Honourable their local communities. Highlights of the programme include: Access Bank Plc Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2011 46 Right: Dr Olusina Olulana, CEO, Nigeria Business Coalition Against AIDS, Julie M. Cege, Program Manager – Business Networks Development, GBCHealth Kenya, Omobolanle Babatunde, Head, Sustainability, Access Bank (4th left); Mrs Bukky Holloway, representing First Lady of Lagos State, Mrs Abimbola Fashola; Dr Akudo Anyanwu Ikemba, CEO/ Founder Friends Africa and participants at the SME Workplace Policy Programme Workshop Nigeria (from left to right) Right: Cross section of participants at the SME Workplace Policy Programme Workshop Right: Dr Olusina Olulana giving a certificate of participation to a participant at the SME Workplace Policy Programme Workshop Left: Participant receiving certificate of participation from Julie M. Cege, Program Manager – Business Networks Development, GBCHealth Kenya Right: Participant asking a question during the SME Workplace Policy Programme Workshop Zambia Communities Above: Breakout session during the SME Workplace Policy Programme Workshop in Nigeria Left: Participants presenting the HIV/AIDS, TB and Malaria Workplace Policy developed by their respective Groups at the SME Workshop Access Bank Plc Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2011 47 Communities We believe that tapping into continued the passion and expertise of employees is one of the most important ways we can create positive change in the communities we serve Train the Trainers (TOT) Workshops Dignitaries at this event included: Mr Idris Muhammad, Director The TOT Workshops were held in mid 2011 and shared of Ecology; Alh. Bala Musa, representative of the State Director, the objectives of Going Green, Beyond Words with over 80 National Orientation Agency; Mr Mallam Sherif Ibrahim, State representatives from partner schools. They in turn completed Coordinator, National Environmental Standard and Regulation 6 briefing sessions for a highly enthusiastic audience of 1,600 Enforcement Agency (NESREA); Dr Mahmud Mohammed, students from each of the 40 partner schools. Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Education; and Mr Yusuf Ndako, State Coordinator, Niger State Agency for Mass Education. Students focus group meeting and inauguration of the Green Club Sokoto state The student focus group meeting provided a platform to educate The formal launch of the project in Sokoto State was attended by students about the campaign’s aims, to increase their awareness some 200 people including government officials, officials from of environmental sustainability, and to encourage schools to take participating schools, students and Access Bank staff. Opening ownership of the programme. The schools also established remarks were read by Mustafa Aliyu, the Relationship Manager, Green Clubs. Sokoto Branch of Access Bank. The Executive Governor of the state, who was out of the country, was represented by Alhaji Programme launch Abubakar Mohammed Dan-Shehu Permanent Secretary, Ministry The initiative was formally launched in Minna, Niger State of Environment. Keynote addresses were delivered by Mr Adeniyi on Thursday, 30 June, 2011 and in Sokoto, Sokoto State, Adeleye of Idea Builders Initiative, and Dr Buhari Bello Kware, on Thursday, 7 July, 2011. Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Science and Technology, Niger state Sokoto State. The event was held at Day Secondary School B, Chanchaga, After the speech and opening remarks, the following officials Minna, Niger State on 30 June, 2011 and was attended by over participated in the tree planting: the representative of the 200 people. The Niger State Executive Governor, represented Governor, Alhaji Abubakar Mohammed Dan-Shehu; Dr Buhari by Dr Mammud Mohammad, Permanent Secretary, Ministry Bello Kware, Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Science and of Education, gave a keynote address. The speech was followed Technology, Sokoto. Ahmad Bala Allu, Deputy Director, Senior by remarks from key Niger State government officials including: Secondary, Representative of the Honourable Commissioner, Mrs Fati Abdullahi, Director of Educational Services; Dr (Mrs) H. Ministry of Education, Sokoto; Mustafa Aliyu, Relationship N. Muhammad, Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Environment; Manager, Access Bank; and the representative of the Sultan, Aliyu Muhammad, Director of Forestry; Alh. Balarabe Musa, Abubakar Maccido, from the Sultanate Council. the representative of the Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Youth Affairs and Strategy. Other dignitaries at this event included: Salisu A. Shehu, Director of Forestry, Ministry of Environment; Nana S. Baura, Ministry of This was followed by presentation of tree planting tools to Science and Technology; Yakub Alhassan Abdul, CEO Senior representatives of the 20 participating schools, with dignitaries Secondary, Ministry of Education; Ibrahim Idris, Assistant planting trees at the school premises. The students of Day Director, Ministry of Science and Technology. Secondary School B, Chanchaga, Minna – the host school – also performed a drama piece. The event concluded with a closing Employee volunteering speech by the Principal of the School. The Bank encourages employees to become actively involved in volunteering. Activities can involve supporting school programmes, coaching local youths, teaching financial education or serving on the board of a non-profit organisation. We believe that tapping into the passion and expertise of employees is one of the most important ways we can create positive change in the communities we serve. Employee volunteering significantly enhances the impact and social value of our investments. Access Bank Plc Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2011 48 Right: Participants queuing up to take the free cervical and breast cancer test Right: Refurbished library at the Herbert Macaulay Girls School Right: Volunteers from the Enterprise Business Support Group at the UNICEF Fundraising Football Tournament aimed at support efforts geared at assisting children infected and affected by HIV/AIDS Left: Cross Section of Participants at the Cervical Cancer Symposium Communities Right: Employees from the Bank’s Internal Audit Unit awarding gifts to the best student of the Wesley School of the Hearing Impaired Access Bank Plc Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2011 49 Communities continued Right: Going Green, Beyond Words, Above: Going Green, Beyond Tree Planting initiative Words, Tree Planting initiative Community investment data Enterprise Development Public Policy And Governance Workshop 15,000,000.00 International Conference On Challenges Of Terrorism/Centre For Criminal Justice Reform & Citizen Awareness 5,000,000.00 Sub-Total 20,000,000.00 Education & Enterprise Fate Foundation Business Plan Competition 1,000,000.00 Sub-Total 1,000,000.00 Health “Gift From Africa” Initiative 51,999,898.50 SME Workplace Policy Programme 31,937,255.04 2011 World AIDS Day 810,000.00 Nigeria Business Coalition Against AIDS 1,200,000.00 Kendra Johnson Foundation 500,000.00 Discovery Channel Global Education Partnership 15,650,000.00 National Agency For The Control Of AIDS 14,500,000.00 Pink Pearl Foundation 2,000,000.00 Bloom Cancer Care And Support Centre 1,000,000.00 Maria Sam Foundation 5,000,000.00 Yakubu Gowon Foundation 2,000,000.00 Sub-Total 126,597,153.54 Environment Environment & Social Risk Capacity Building Workshop 4,020,950.00 Going Green, Beyond Words Tree Planting Initiatives 10,780,000.00 Nigeria Sustainable Finance Week 17,264,400.00 Go Green Publication 100,000.00 Sub-Total 32,165,350.00 Social Welfare Improving Road Access in operating environment 200,000.00 Women For Change Development Initiative And A. Aruera Reachout Foundation 30,000,000.00 Sub-Total 30,200,000.00 Grand Total 209,962,503.54 Access Bank Plc Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2011 50 Here are a few examples of Access Bank’s Employee Volunteer Initiatives: Name of organisation(s)/ Business unit/ community Types and Programme/ Group benefiting from Implementation Number of S/N Initiative responsible contribution Details of initiative partners (if any) Beneficiaries 1 School Adoption Group Ladipo Primary A 3 year school adoption project. None Over 200 Programme Compliance and School In 2011, the Group embarked on an students and Internal Control electrification of the Ladipo Primary staff of the School administrative block and a Ladipo School computer laboratory was set-up at the school with the donation of 5 computer systems. In addition, a tutor has been assigned to teach the students basic Microsoft office application. 2 Cervical Cancer Group Treasury Less privileged The programme entails cervical cancer George Kerry The 2011 Health with particular publicity and awareness through Life Foundation programme Campaign focus on e-mails, social media webpages (such witnessed women as facebook and twitter), flyers, one attendance of on one interaction; and symposia on 350 participants cervical cancer amongst others. and 335 women participated in The 2011 programme witnessed the screening attendance of 350 participants that included representatives from more than 100 schools in Lagos State with not less than 5,000 students in their circle of influence and local government workers who have direct influence on host communities. In the course of the seminar, participants were well educated and encouraged to pass on the awareness on the deadly disease to others. Teachers who could not attend the seminars have the opportunity of visiting to the clinic for a free test and treatment. 335 women participated in the screening, 7 of these women tested positive to human papillomavirus (HPV). These women are currently undergoing free treatment at the George Kerry Life Foundation Clinic at Ikeja. Communities Access Bank Plc Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2011 51 Communities continued Name of organisation(s)/ Business unit/ community Types and Programme/ Group benefiting from Implementation Number of S/N Initiative responsible contribution Details of initiative partners (if any) Beneficiaries 3 Mind The Branch Services National Youth This project is been implemented in e-Green Over 5,000 Gap Mentoring Group Service Corps partnership with a Non-Governmental NYSC Corps Project Organisation, E-Green Services. In members were July, 2011 Branch Services provided in attendance the sum of N1 million to further the course of the initiative. Members of staff also participated and presented at the quarterly Career Mentoring Session titled LEAPFROGGING NIGERIA GRADUATES TO GLOBAL RELEVANCE & GAINFUL EMPLOYMENT THROUGH ICT & SOCIAL ENTREPRENEURSHIP. This held at the NYSC camp, Lagos and over 5,000 NYSC Corps members were in attendance. Thereafter, monthly goals were assigned to participants. This is designed to move protégés from the awareness to Mastery level. 4 Support for Global Trade Orphan and The initiative provides support for Hope Over 130 Orphan and vulnerable orphan and vulnerable children Worldwide orphans and Vulnerable children (OVC) and youth at risk given that children were affected by their caregiver are dead or infected reached Children (OVC) HIV/AIDS with HIV/AIDS. The programme comprises of mentoring and educational/health support for children and youth between the ages of 10-21. 5 The Future of Central Herbert The CPC Group refurbished the Change-A-Life Over 810 Our Youth; Our Processing Macaulay Herbert Macaulay Senior Girls Foundation students are Passion Centre Group Senior Girls Grammar School library. This beneficiaries Grammar included the renovation of the School library space with the provision of good quality furniture, books and computers. 6 Preparing Economic Youths and The broad objectives of the initiative None Over 195 Leaders & Intelligence/ teacher includes mentoring and skill beneficiaries Grooming Group Market empowerment acquisition, renovation of school in all Risk infrastructures and empowering Talents teaching staff. The Group’s intervention for 2011 include the repair of the school water system, upgrade of the restrooms and refurbishment of Home Economics and Biology laboratories. Access Bank Plc Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2011 52 Name of organisation(s)/ Business unit/ community Types and Programme/ Group benefiting from Implementation Number of S/N Initiative responsible contribution Details of initiative partners (if any) Beneficiaries 7 A-Word-A-Day TQM Olomu Primary This a mentorship programme that Centre for 500 students School combines 3 aspects of community Societal were reached intervention: mentoring, teaching Transformation and infrastructual intervention. Members of the Team will dedicate 35 minutes of their time every Thursday for a 5 month period to assist students in primary school learn how to read. There would also be periodic quiz competitions to access and measure the impact of the initiative. 8 Economically Commercial Community The aim of this initiative is to bridge MIND Over 450 Disadvantaged Banking Group, Secondary the Literacy and Digital divide by Foundation children and Schools in Rivers Port Harcourt School, using ICT to foster life-long learning youths were Abuloma and hands-on education for children reached State and youth. This project is dedicated to providing free learning opportunities to children and youth in resourcechallenged schools within rural communities. The objective is to equip disadvantaged children (10-17 years old) with the knowledge and skills they require for their personal and academic success. The focus of this initiative is three-fold: • ICT based learning/Digital learning to be globally competitive; • Vocational skills training to enhance income generating options with a view to reducing poverty; and • Leadership development with inclination to civil and moral education, service to humanity by way of volunteering and giving back as well as building strong character. 9 Girl Child CCBG Lagos Girls Senior For 2011, the Group equipped None 420 students Education Island/Victoria Secondary the Science Laboratory as well as of Girls Senior Communities Island and Ikoyi Grammar provided an ICT laboratory to enable Secondary Super Region School student have access to the internet Grammar and aid learning. School 10 Your Positive GEM & Wealth Less privileged The Group sponsored 20 HIV-Positive Tulsi Chanrai 20 HIV-Positive Impact Can Keep Management with particular Antenatal Mothers deliver HIVFoundation antenatal Newborn Babies focus on Negative babies with proper mothers were women living intervention. sponsored HIV-Negative with HIV and their children This was done through the provision of Prevention of Mother to Child Treatment; At-Birth Treatment and Infant and New Mother medication to significantly reduce the chances of HIV transmission from mother to child. 11 Improving the Credit Risk Ibeju Lekki The project entails the renovation None 240 students Quality of Life Management Community of the community primary school were reached Primary School building which involved repair of damaged roof covering, re-flooring of classrooms, plastering and painting of the building. Access Bank Plc Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2011 53 Communities continued Name of organisation(s)/ Business unit/ community Types and Programme/ Group benefiting from Implementation Number of S/N Initiative responsible contribution Details of initiative partners (if any) Beneficiaries 12 “Fulfilment” IT Group Indigent The initiative intends to reduce Thisday About 620 Capacity Building Entrepreneurs poverty among indigent Newspaper entrepreneurs for Indigent entrepreneurs in the society and help Limited benefited from build capacity of this class of people the initiative Entrepreneur to lead growing and sustainable small scale businesses. The project is implemented in 3 phases which comprises funding, training and monitoring. The indigent entrepreneurs will be provided with seed capital to build the foundation and grow their business and provide employment for others. Thereafter adequate capacity building workshops and follow-up will be conducted. 13 Adopt-A-School FINCON Methodist Boys This project entails: None Over 900 High School • Equipping of physics laboratory; students and • Equipping of computer laboratory; staff of the Methodist Boys • Equipping of library with books and High School establishment of an e-library in the school; and • Mentorship/counselling on career development. 14 Physically Internal Audit Wesley School The initiative was selected as a result None 25 affected Challenged of the Hearing of the Group’s strategic aim of individuals Impaired supporting people who are physically challenged, in a bid to encourage them academically. The Group undertook the following projects in the school: • Career talk on the topic ”Quest for Excellence” during the prize giving day/graduation ceremony of the school; • Refurbishment of the School’s Medical Centre and the provision of medical equipment; and • Provision of prizes for the best graduating students of the school. 15 Empowering the Institutional Girls Senior This initiative is designed to primarily None About 500 Girl Child Banking Group Secondary support the increase of educational students will Grammar opportunities to the Girl Child. be positively School, Ikoyi affected when The beneficiary school is an the project is all-female school that had completed dilapidated classroom structures and absence of toilets. This initiative is implemented in 2 parts: provision of school furniture and revamping of school building. Access Bank Plc Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2011 54 GRI Data Table GRI indicator Description Report reference Pages Strategy and analysis 1.1 Group Chairman’s Statement Group Chairman’s Statement 4 Group Managing Director’s Statement Statement from the Group Managing 5 Director/Chief Executive Officer 1.2 Description of key impacts, Risks and opportunities 12 risks and opportunities Organisational profile 2.1 Name of reporting organisation About this Report 1 2.2 Major brands, products and services Our Business at a Glance 6-8 2.3 Operational structure Our Approach to Sustainability 14-15 2.4 Location of organisation’s headquarters Corporate Directory 62 2.5 Countries of operation Corporate Directory 62 2.6 Nature of ownership Comprehensive Services 6 2.7 Markets served Comprehensive Services 6 2.8 Scale of organisation Comprehensive Services 6 2.9 Significant changes Executive summary 2-3 2.10 Awards received Awards and recognition 11 Report parameters 3.1 Reporting period About this Report 1 3.2 Date of most recent previous report About this Report 1 3.3 Reporting cycle About this Report 1 3.4 Contact person Contact information 77 3.5 Defining report content About this Report, Assurance Statement 1, 60-61 and commentary Report scope and boundary 3.6 Boundaries of the report About this Report 1 3.7 Limitations on report scope About this Report, Assurance Statement 1, 60-61 and commentary 3.8 Basis for reporting on joint ventures About this Report 1 3.10 Re-statements of information Assurance Statement and commentary 60-61 3.11 Significant changes Executive Summary 2 GRI content index 3.12 Table identifying the location of the following: GRI content index 55-58 • Strategy and Analysis 1.1 – 1.2; • Organisational Profile 2.1 – 2.10; • Report Parameters 3.1 – 3.13; • Governance, Commitments, and Engagement 4.1 – 4.17; • Disclosure of Management Approach, per category; • Core Performance Indicators; • Any GRI Additional Indicators that were included; and • Any GRI Sector Supplement Indicators included in the report. Assurance 3.13 Assurance Assurance Statement and Commentary 60-61 Other Information Governance, commitments and engagement governance 4.1 Governance structure Governance 14-15 4.2 Whether Chair is also an Executive Officer Governance 14-15 4.3 Numbers of members that are independent Governance 14-15 and/or Non-Executive Board members Access Bank Plc Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2011 55 GRI Data Table continued GRI indicator Description Report reference Pages 4.4 Mechanisms for Shareholders and employees Governance 14-15 to feedback to highest governance body 4.6 Processes in place for the highest governance Governance 14-15 body to ensure conflicts of interest are avoided 4.8 Internally developed statements of mission Executive Summary; Group Chairman’s 2-5, 10 and their status Statement; Statement from the Group Managing Director, our approach to sustainability 4.9 Procedures of the highest governance body Sustainability Governance 15 for overseeing the organisation’s identification and management of economic, environmental and social performance 4.10 Processes for evaluating the highest Governance 15 governance body’s own performance, particularly with respect to economic, environmental, and social performance Commitments to external initiatives 4.12 Externally developed economic, External Initiatives 20-21 environmental and social charters, principles, or other initiatives to which the organisation subscribes or endorses 4.13 Memberships in associations (such as industry External Initiatives 20-21 associations) and/or national/international advocacy organisations in which the organisation has positions in governance bodies and participates in projects or committees Stakeholder engagement 4.14 List of Stakeholder groups engaged Stakeholder engagement 18-19 by organisation 4.15 Basis for identification and selection Stakeholder engagement 18-19 of Stakeholders with whom to engage 4.16 Approaches to Stakeholder engagement, Stakeholder engagement 18-19 including frequency of engagement by type and by Stakeholder group 4.17 Key topics and concerns that have been Stakeholder engagement 18-19 raised through Stakeholder engagement, and how the organisation has responded to those key topics and concerns, including through its reporting FS4 Process(es) for improving staff competency Our approach to sustainability 10-21 to implement the environmental and social policies and procedures as applied to business lines Economic performance indicators Goals and performance Aspect: Economic performance EC1 Direct economic value generated and Value added statement; distribution 9, 50 distributed, including revenues, operating of economic benefit and key facts costs, employee compensation, donations and other community investments, retained earnings and payments to capital providers and governments EC2 Financial implications and other risks and Environmental sustainability 36-41 opportunities for the organisation’s activities due to climate change EC3 Coverage of the organisation’s defined Distribution of economic benefit 30-35 benefit plan obligations and retirement benefits EC4 Financial assistance from the Government Not applicable Access Bank Plc Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2011 56 GRI indicator Description Report reference Pages Aspect: Market presence EC5 Range of ratios of standard entry level Benefits to full time employees 35 wage compared to local minimum wage EC6 Policy, practice and proportion of spending Supply chain; distribution of 42-43 on locally based suppliers economic benefit EC7 Procedures for local hiring Procedure for local hiring; recruitment criteria 42-43 Environmental performance indicators Goals and performance Aspect: Materials EN1 Materials used by weight or volume Environment 38-41 Aspect: Energy EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary Environment 38-41 energy source EN4 Indirect energy consumption by Environment 38-41 primary source EN5 Energy saved due to conservation and Environment 38-41 efficiency improvements EN7 Initiatives to reduce indirect energy Environment 38-41 consumption and reductions achieved Aspect: Products and services EN26 Environmental impact initiatives Environment 38-41 EN27 Percentage of products and Not applicable packaging reclaimed Aspect: Compliance EN28 Monetary value of significant fines and total Fighting corruption 29 number of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations Aspect: Transport EN29 Significant environmental impacts of Environment 38-41 transporting products and other goods and materials used for the organisation’s operations, and transporting members of the workforce Social performance indicators: Labour practices and decent work Goals and performance Aspect: Employment LA1 Total workforce Financial Highlights 9 LA2 Employment turnover Employees 30-35 LA3 Benefits provided to full-time employees Employee remuneration and benefits 35 Aspect: Labour/ management relations LA4 Percentage of employees covered by Employees 30-35 collective bargaining agreements Aspect: Occupational health and safety Other Information LA8 Serious disease programmes Access Bank workplace policy 44 LA9 Trade unions health and safety topics covered Access Bank workplace policy 44 Aspect training and education LA10 Number of hours expended on Staff training 30 employee training LA11 Skills management programmes Recruitment criteria 30 LA12 Performance and career development reviews Career development 30 Access Bank Plc Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2011 57 GRI Data Table continued GRI indicator Description Report reference Pages Aspect: Diversity and equal opportunity LA13 Breakdown of employees per category Diversity 30-32 according to gender, age group and other indicators of diversity Aspect: Human rights Investment and procurement practices HR2 Percentage of significant suppliers and Supply chain 42-43 contractors that have undergone screening on human rights and actions taken Security practices Social performance indicators Aspect: Community Goals and performance SO1 Scope, effectiveness and impact of Community investment; the environment; 44-54 programmes and practices on the community environmental sustainability; governance and ethics Aspect: Corruption SO2 Percentage and total number of business Fighting corruption 29 units analysed for corruption risk SO3 Percentage of employees trained in Fighting corruption 29 anti-corruption policies and procedures SO4 Actions taken in response to incidents Fighting corruption 29 of corruption Aspect: Public policy SO5 Participation in public policy Regulation, Legislation and Public Policy 15 Development and lobbying Regulation, Legislation and Public Policy 15 SO6 Political lobbying and contributions Regulation, Legislation and Public Policy 15 Aspect: Compliance SO8 Monetary value of significant fines and No fines received total number of non-monetary sanctions Product Responsibility Performance PR3 Type of product and service information Our Business at a glance 6-8 required by procedures, and percentage of significant products and services subject to such information requirements GRI financial services sector supplement D1 Description of policies with specific Environment 38-41 environmental and social components applied to business lines D2 Description of procedures for assessing Environment 38-41 and screening environmental and social risks in business lines D3 Description of processes for monitoring Environment 38-41 clients’ implementation and compliance with environmental and social requirements included in agreements or transactions Access Bank Plc Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2011 58 Assurance Statement and Commentary Assurance statement The report reflects both achievements and areas for Access Bank has commissioned Corporate Citizenship to provide improvement. Among its highlights, Access Bank initiated the external assurance and a commentary solely on its Corporate Nigeria Sustainable Finance Week and the Strategic Sustainability Social Responsibility Report 2011. Working Group. This, and other initiatives and engagement in external activities, shows the Bank’s important role in driving The scope of our assurance sustainability forward in the Nigerian banking sector. Access The assurance provides the reader with an independent, Bank recognises that in order to achieve long-term and external assessment of the report and, in particular, with how it sustainable change, an industry wide approach is crucial. corresponds with the AA1000 standard. It is intended for the The report also touches upon challenges, in particular the general reader and for more specialist audiences who have a findings from the employee survey, where a range of issues and professional interest in Access Bank’s responsibility and concerns are described. We believe that it is crucial to provide sustainability performance. a balanced picture of achievements and challenges, risks and Access Bank has chosen to use the iteration of the AA1000 opportunities, in a transparent way. assurance standard AA1000AS (2008). Our assurance is a Type 1 A major change from last year is the adoption of a new vision, assurance as defined by the standard, in that it evaluates the mission and values for Access Bank. We believe that a discussion nature and extent of adherence to the AA1000AS principles of the background and reason for this change, and its of inclusivity, materiality and responsiveness and assures the implications on the implementation for the CSR strategy would behaviour of the organisation as reported here. Our assurance strengthen the report. used disclosed information as its starting point and then investigated the underlying systems, processes and sustainability Access Bank continues prioritising community involvement. This performance information to arrive at its conclusions. Our year’s inclusion of community investment data, broken down in assurance has been informed by the GRI G3 Principles for specific activities, gives the reader an understanding of the extent Defining Report Content and Quality. of the Bank’s community support. The level of assurance offered is moderate as defined by It is evident that Access Bank wants to make progress on CSR, AA1000AS (2008). That is to say, our work obtained sufficient following global best practice. The Bank keeps on driving evidence to support the statement that the risk of our conclusion performance by building strategic partnership and adhering being in error is reduced. to a number of external initiatives and best practice standards, including UNPRI, LBG and the Equator Principles. Access Bank is entirely and solely responsible for the contents of the report, Corporate Citizenship for its assurance. Our comments in relation to the three principles of AA1000 are as follows: A detailed note of our assurance methodology appears at the end of this statement. Inclusivity: Does the organisation accept a responsibility to those on whom it has an impact? Opinion and conclusions Does it involve Stakeholders in developing a strategic In our opinion the Access Bank CSR Report reflects the principles approach to corporate responsibility and of AA1000 (2008): inclusivity, materiality and responsiveness. sustainability? In our view, the report displays Access Bank’s adherence to In our commentary we review the report against each of these the AA1000 principle of inclusiveness. principles separately. We also provide feedback that can help Access Bank and its stakeholders identify where reporting can Access Bank prioritises its responsibilities to its key Stakeholders. be strengthened in future. As in previous years, the bank has clearly structured the report around its Stakeholders, reporting on the impact it has on Commentary these groups. This is Access Bank’s fourth full CSR Report. The Company has The report clearly lists key stakeholders and provides examples on made important progress in its approach to CSR over the last ways and mechanisms of engagement and main issues covered. four years. It is evident that CSR is a top priority for the Bank, and As recommended in last year’s statement Access Bank should there is a strong commitment from senior management to drive formalise the role of Stakeholder engagement in strategy the sustainability agenda forward, in line with international best development going forward, and we repeat the recommendation practice. Access Bank has put in place a governance structure for again. One way of doing this could be to engage a panel of managing CSR, and the work to further embed the CSR strategy relevant Stakeholders that could provide on-going and strategic across the organisation is on-going. input and advice on the CSR strategy moving forward. Other Information Access Bank Plc Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2011 59 Assurance Statement and Commentary continued While Nigeria remains the key market for Access Bank, it operates Access Bank is playing a significant role in driving sustainable across ten countries. Last year’s statement recommended the banking in Nigeria forward through active involvement in various Bank to include further details on its activities and operations platforms and a range of external initiatives. For example, the in other markets, as it would give the reader a better sense of Bank initiated the Nigeria Sustainable Finance week, which led the banks activities, customers and the competitive landscape. to the signing of a Joint Commitment Statement on Nigeria Although the information on other markets has expanded this Sustainable Banking Principles. year, the majority of examples, facts and data included in the report continue to refer to Nigeria alone. Looking forward Access Bank has made considerable progress towards becoming Materiality: What are the issues that really matter a sustainable bank over the last few years. As the Bank moves to the organisation’s sustainability performance to a forward-looking and long-term approach to sustainability, (“material issues”)? How does the organisation there is a need to set clearly defined targets, goals and KPIs. identify these issues? We believe that such approach would help the bank further drive In our view, the report displays Access Bank’s adherence performance and improvements. This is of particular importance to the AA1000 principle of materiality. as the recent merger with Intercontinental Bank will make Access The report covers Access Bank’s core material issues in a clear Bank one of the top four leading financial institutions in Nigeria. way. The Bank defines materiality according to the GRI (G3) guidelines definition, and with reference to both internal and external factors. However, future reporting would benefit from Corporate Citizenship including further detail on the process and methods applied for London determining material issues. For example, a specific ‘Determining 30 March, 2012 Materiality’ sub section or even a matrix could be included, to facilitate the reader’s understanding of the process. Access Bank reports on its main environmental impact areas, notably energy use, fuel consumption, water, waste and transport. Last year’s statement recommended the Bank to expand reporting in this area, including further detail on environmental strategy, goals, and performance data. This year’s report has added a section on climate change, which is a good start towards improved reporting in this area. Responsiveness: Does the organisation respond to stakeholder issues that affect performance through its actions and communications? In our view, the report displays Access Bank’s adherence to the AA1000 principle of responsiveness. The report contains evidence that Access Bank uses feedback from stakeholder engagement to form its approach going forward. However, Access Bank could further highlight how new policies and practices are developed in response to stakeholder feedback. For example, what role did Stakeholders play in the development of the new mission, vision and values? Access Bank Plc Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2011 60 Methodological notes Our work did not extend to a complete audit of the report’s The assurance work was commissioned in February 2012 and contents. We have not been responsible for the preparation was completed on 30 March, 2012. Detailed records were kept of Access Bank’s CSR Report nor in devising the internal of meetings, assurance visits and correspondence relating to the management and reporting systems that yielded the data inclusivity, materiality and responsiveness of the report, as well as contained therein. to technical matters relating to the accuracy and presentation of The opinions expressed in this external assurance statement and data. A team of four, led by an associate director, undertook the commentary are intended to extend understanding of Access assurance and commentary process. A director acted as adviser Bank’s non-financial performance and should not be used to the group. The team has a variety of professional and or relied upon to form any judgements, or take any decisions, technical competencies and experience. For further information of a financial nature. please refer to our website www.corporate-citizenship.com. Corporate Citizenship is a leading assuror of corporate Our external assurance and commentary process for Access responsibility reports. The company is a member of Bank’s CSR report has involved, but not been limited to, the AccountAbility (Institute for Social and Ethical AccountAbility). following elements: We have provided report assurance for Access Bank since 2009. • Understanding Access Bank and its value chain, its own culture In addition to our work on assurance, Access Bank is a member and the broader social and environmental contexts in which of the LBG (www.lbg-online.net), an evaluation framework for it operates; its approach to and understanding of corporate corporate community involvement which we manage on behalf responsibility; how it identifies issues material to its operations. of its members and adherents. We have done no other work for • Benchmarking against peers, competitors, best practice and Access Bank during 2011. internationally recognised standards to identify the basis on which to judge Access Bank’s performance. Corporate Citizenship is part of Chime Communications. • Analysis of Access Bank’s stakeholder engagement activity, including findings from the employee survey. • Review of national and international published sources of information about the views and opinions of external stakeholders. • Examination of the report at set stages in its development and testing of the assertions throughout, drawing from evidence and supporting documentation, reporting mechanisms, frameworks and processes. • Examination of management and reporting systems, notably Holborn Gate for community investment. 330 High Holborn London WC1V 7QG • Site visit to Access Bank’s head office in Lagos. United Kingdom • Interviews with eleven senior managers including the Group Tel: +44 (0)20 7861 1616 Head of Corporate Social Responsibility, an Executive Director www.corporate-citizenship.com and the Customer Ombudsman. • Attendance of a meeting/workshop on the Nigerian Sustainable Banking Principles in Lagos. Other Information Access Bank Plc Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2011 61 Corporate Directory HEAD OFFICE Access Bank BRANCH DISTRIBUTION (Sierra Leone) Limited Access Bank Plc Head Office Abia The Plaza 30, Siaka Stevens Street Aba Branch Plot 999c, Danmole Street Freetown 69, Azikwiwe Road Off Adeola Odeku/Idejo Street Sierra Leone Aba PMB 80150, Victoria Island T: (+232) 25 334933 Abia State Lagos, Nigeria F: (+232) 22 220119 Umuahia Branch T: (+234) 1-2771191, 2773300-99 E: info.sierraleone@accessbankplc.com Plot 6 F: (+234) 1-2771185 W: www.accessbankplc.com/sl Trading/Residential Area www.accessbankplc.com Access Bank (Zambia) Limited Umuahia Plot 682, Cairo Road Northend Abia State SUBSIDIARIES HEAD OFFICE P.O. Box 35273 Azikwe Road Branch ADDRESSES Lusaka 9, Factory Road Zambia Aba Access Bank (D.R. Congo) Sarl T: (+260) 211 227941 Abia State 158, Avenue de la Démocratie F: (+260) 211 22996, 227956 Kinshasa, Gombe Umuahia Branch E: info.zambia@accessbankplc.com Democratic Republic of Congo 2, Library Way W: www.accessbankplc.com/zm T: (+243) 81 22 22 111–14 Umuahia F: (+243) 81 22 22 116 The Access Bank UK Limited Abia State E: info.rdcongo@accessbankplc.com Head Office W: www.accessbankplc.com/cd 1, Cornhill Faulks Road Branch London 132, Faulks Road Access Bank (Gambia) Limited Aba EC3V 3ND Head Office Abia State United Kingdom 47, Kairaba Avenue E: info@theaccessbankukltd.co.uk Duke House Branch Fajara, K.S.M.D. W: www.theaccessbankukltd.co.uk Duke House P.O. Box 3177 45, Azikwe Road Serrekunda FinBank SA Abia State The Gambia 16, Boulevard de La Liberté T: (+220) 4398227, 4399022 Place de I’Indépendence Umudike Branch F: (+220) 4396640 B.P. 2998 Bujumbura-Burundi University of Agriculture E: info.gambia@accessbankplc.com Burundi Umudike Main Campus W: www.accessbankplc.com/gm T: (+257) 22 24 32 06 Abia State F: (+257) 22 24 32 07 Access Bank (Ghana) Limited Abuja E: info@finbankburundi.com Starlets ‘91 Road Aminu Kano Branch W: www.finbankburundi.com Opposite Accra Sports Stadium Plot 1195 P.O. Box GP 353 Aminu Kano Crescent Osu, Accra Wuse Ii (Opp. Amal Court) Ghana Abuja T: (+233) 302 684 860 Adetokunbo Ademola Branch E: info.ghana@accessbankplc.com Plot 833 W: www.accessbankplc.com/gh Adetokunbo Ademola Crescent Access Bank (Rwanda) Limited Wuse 2 3rd Floor, UTC Building Abuja Avenue de la Paix Herbert Macaulay Branch P.O. Box 2059 Plot 247 Kigali, Rwanda Herbert Macaulay Way T: (+250) 252 500089/90-94 Abuja F: (+250) 252 575761, 572501 E: info.rwanda@accessbankplc.com or Asokoro Branch rwandacontactcenter@accessbankplc.com Plot 87 W: www.accessbankplc.com/rw Yakubu Gowon Crescent Asokoro Abuja Garki Branch Ahmadu Bello Way Garki Ii Abuja Access Bank Plc Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2011 62 Kubwa Branch Federal Secretariat Branch Adamawa Plot 59 Federal Secretariat Complex Yola Branch 30 Gado Nasko Road Federal Capital Territory Abubakar Atiku Way Kubwa Abuja Adamawa State Abuja Utako Branch Akwa Ibom Bank Of Industry (BoI) Branch Plot 903 Oron Branch Plot 256 Obafemi Awolowo Way Along Oron Road Herbert Macaulay Way Federal Capital Territory Etiema Street Behind Unity Bank Head Office Abuja Akwa Ibom State Abuja Ladoke Akintola Blvd. Branch Ikot Ekpene Branch Cadastral Branch Along Akintola Boulevard 1, Abak Road Plot 207 Garki Akwa Ibom State Cadastral Zone Federal Capital Territory Federal Capital Territory Abuja Wellington Bassey Branch Abuja 21, Wellington Bassey Way Fed. Min. of Justice Branch Akwa Ibom State Wuse Branch Federal Ministry of Justice Complex Plot 2401 Federal Capital Territory Aka Road Branch Cadastrals Zone A7 Abuja 32, Aka Road Federal Capital Territory Akwa Ibom State Federal Mortgage Bank Branch Abuja Federal Mortgage Bank Building Eket Branch National Assembly Branch Central Business Area Along Grace Bill Road National Assembly Complex Federal Capital Territory Akwa Ibom State Federal Capital Territory Abuja Anambra Abuja Jos Street Branch New Market Road Branch Dei Dei Branch 6, Jos Street 30, Nnewi Road Zone B2.582 Opposite Sharon Ultimate Hotel Anambra State Dei Dei Building Material Intl Market Federal Capital Territory Edo Ezemewi Rd Branch Federal Capital Territory Abuja 15, Edo Ezemewi Road Abuja Garki Area 11 Branch Anambra State Douala Street Branch Plot 599 Bridge Head Branch Plot 2357 Cadastral Zone A3 48, Port Harcourt Road Douala Street Gwarjo Close Bridge Head Federal Capital Territory Off Gimbiya Street Onitsha Abuja Federal Capital Territory Anambra State Abuja NNPC Towers Branch Abuja Ekwulobia Main Branch Block B Enugu House Branch Uga Road NNPC Towers Hm Way Plot 81 Ekwulobia CBD Federal Capital Territory Ralph Shodeinde Street Aguata Lga Abuja Opp. Fed. Min. of Finance Anambra State Tofa House Branch Central Federal Capital Territory New Market Road Branch Tofa House Abuja 14, New Market Road Plot 770 Karu Branch Onitsha Central Business District Plot Number 312 Anambra State Federal Capital Territory Nyanya Sports Centre Layout Umunze Branch Abuja Federal Capital Territory Umunze Ogbunka Road Maitama Branch Abuja Orumba North Local Government Plot 619 Nasda Branch Anambra State Gana Street Obasanjo Space Village Awka 2 Branch Other Information Cadastral Zone A05 Airport Road Km 41 Federal Capital Territory Federal Capital Territory Enugu-Onithsa Expressway Abuja Abuja Regina Caeli Junction Gwagwalada Branch Durumi Branch Awka 356, Special Hospital Road Plot 1037 Anambra State Gwagwalada Shafa Shopping Centre Ihiala Branch Federal Capital Territory By Old Federal Secretariat Ihiala Abuja Federal Capital Territory, Abuja Anambra State Access Bank Plc Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2011 63 Corporate Directory continued Up Iweka Branch Borno Mission Road Branch Up Iweka Maiduguri Branch 135, Akpapava Road Onitsha Sir Kashim Ibrahim Way Benin Anambra State Maiduguri Edo State Ogidi Branch Borno State Textile Mill Road Branch Building Material Market Bama Branch 74, Edo Textile Mill Road Anambra State Along Bama-Mubi Road Benin Unizik Branch Bama Edo State Bank Plaza Borno State Uniben Branch Nnamdi Azikiwe University Cross River Ransome Kuti Road Awka Calabar Road Branch University Of Benin Anambra State 10, Calabar Road Edo State Stock Exchange Branch Pmb 1270 Okada Branch Nigeria Stock Exchange Complex Cross River State New Site Onitsha Ogoja Branch Igbinedion University Campus Anambra State Hospital Road Okada Bauchi Ogoja Edo State Bauchi Branch Cross River State Auchi Branch 5, Bank Road Delta Beside Federal Polytechnic Auchi Bauchi State Nnebisi Road Branch Iyekhei/Polytechnic Road 417B, Nnebisi Road Edo State Bayelsa Yenagoa Major Axis Branch Asaba Ekpoma Branch Km 6 Delta State 6, Akhere Lane Mbiama/Yenagoa Road Agbor Branch Edo State Bayelsa State 126, Old Asaba Road Sapele Road Branch Mbiama Yenagoa Road Branch Delta State 164, Sapele Road Mbiama/Yenogoa Road Deco Road Branch Opposite NPDC Onopa Robson Shopping Complex Sapele Yenogoa Deco Road Edo State Bayelsa State Delta State Uselu Branch Benue Effururn Branch 170, Uselu Lagos Road Makurdi Branch 80, Effurun-Sapele Road Edo State 83, Old Otukpo Road Effurun Ekiti Benue State Delta State Ijero Ekiti Branch Gboko Branch Sapele Branch Ijero Ekiti Benue Cement Factory Warri Road Ijero Computer Centre Km 72 Sapele Market Square Makurdi-Gboko Road Delta State Ekiti State Benue State Ado Ekiti Branch Ebonyi Oturkpo Branch Abakaliki Branch 144, Secretariar/Iyin Road 19, Federal Road 44, Ogoja Road Ekiti State Oturkpo Abakaliki Anambra Benue State Ebonyi State Awka Branch Gboko Main Branch 222, Zik Avenue Abakaliki Branch 5/7, J.S. Tarka Way Awka 41, Ogoja Road Gboko Enugu State Abakaliki Benue State Ebonyi State Enugu Makurdi 2 Branch Okpara Avenue Branch Adjacent To Living Faith Church Edo Benin Branch 5, Okpara Avenue Benue State Enugu 45, Akpakpava Street Zaki Ibiam Branch Benin Enugu State YJunction Edo State Enugu Road Branch Katsina Ala Road 12, Enugu Road Zakibiam Enugu Benue State Enugu State Access Bank Plc Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2011 64 Kenyatta Branch Imo Ungwan Rimi Branch 16, Kenyatta Street Wetheral Road Branch Along Kwato Road Uwani 117, Wetheral Road Ungwan Rimi Enugu State Close To Dan Anyiam Stadium Gra Esut Branch Owerri Kaduna Enugu State University Imo State Kaduna State Enugu Nekede Branch Kano Enugu State Federal Polytechnic Kano Branch Agbani Road Branch Nekede 12B, Post Office Road Agbani Road Imo State Kano State Enugu Orlu Branch Murtala Mohammed Way Enugu State 4A, Bank Road Kano Branch UNN Nsukka Branch Orlu 146, Murtala Mohammed Way University Of Nigeria Imo State Kano Nsukka Bank Road Branch Kano State Enugu State Bank Road Bello Road, Kano Branch Abakaliki Road Branch Owerri 24, Bello Road Abakaliki Road Imo State Kano Enugu Mbaise Branch Kano State Enugu State Eke-Ahiara Junction 3B Bank Road Branch Abakpa Nike Branch Mbaise 3B Bank Road Abakpa Nike Imo State Kano Enugu Kano State Jigawa Enugu State Dutse Branch Katin Kwari Branch Ogui Road Branch Plot 10/11 Ibrahim Taiwo Road 67, Ogui Road Sani Abacha Way By Aib By Nnamdi Azikiwe Stadium Dutse Kano Enugu Jigawa State Kano State Enugu State Kaduna Bayero University Branch UNN Enugu Campus Branch Kaduna Branch Main Campus University Of Nigeria 16/20, Bida Road Bayero University Enugu Campus Kaduna State Kano Enugu State Kano State Ali Akilu Road Branch Gombe 26D, Ali Akilu Road Aminu Kano Teaching Hospital Branch Ashaka Branch Kaduna Aminu Kano Teaching Hospital Ashaka Cement Factory Kaduna State Kano Gombe State Kano State Kachia Road Kaduna Branch Gombe Branch 314, Kachia Road Bichi Branch 24, New Market Road Kaduna Along Katsina Road Gombe State Kaduna State By Bichi Junction Kano Dukku Branch Ahmadu Bello Way Branch Kano State Dukku Local Government Secretariat A2, Ahmadu Bello Way Gombe State Kaduna Kazaure Branch Kaduna State Along Kano-Duara Road Yamaltu Deba Branch Kano Deba Gra NNPC Refinery Kaduna Branch Kano State Yamaltu Deba Lga NNPC Kaduna Gombe State Kaduna State France Road Branch 17/18, France Road Other Information Kumo Branch Gumi Main Market Branch Kano Emir Palace Road Gumi Main Market Kano State Kumo Kaduna Akko Lga Kaduna State Katsina Gombe State Katsina Branch Kafanchan Branch 106, Ibb Way Kafanchan Katsina Kaduna State Katsina State Access Bank Plc Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2011 65 Corporate Directory continued Katsina Branch Idumota Branch Ogunlana Drive Branch Ibb Way 6, Obun Eko Street 150, Ogunlana Drive Opp. NUM International Bank Idumota Surulere Katsina Lagos State Lagos State Katsina State Broad Street Branch Ligali Ayorinde Branch Funtua Branch 134/136, Broad Street Plot 15 Zaria Road Lagos Ligali Ayorinde Street Katsina Lagos State Victoria Island Katsina State Ikorodu Branch Lagos State Malumfashi Branch 7, Ayangburen Road Point Road Branch Along Funtua Road Ikorodu Ib, Point Road Near Total Filling Station Lagos State Apapa Katsina State Allen Branch Lagos State Daura Branch 84, Allen Avenue Ogba Branch Along Kano Road Ikeja 40A/40B, Ogba Ijaiye Road Besides Nitel Office Lagos State Ogba Katsina State Victoria Island Branch Lagos State Kebbi Plot 1665 Idi-Araba Branch Birnin Kebbi Branch Oyin Jolayemi Street College Of Medicine 1, Jos Road Victoria Island Ishaga Road G.R.A. Onikan Branch Idi-Araba Birnin Kebbi 30, King George V Road Lagos State Kogi Onikan Agbara Branch Obajana Branch Lagos State Bank Road Opposite Dangote Cement Factory Commercial Road Branch Agbara Industrial Estate Kogi State 8/10, Commercial Road Agbara Opposite Eleganza Plaza Lagos State Okene Branch Along Kogi Road Apapa Adeyemo Alakija Branch Kogi State Lagos State Commerce House Old Ojo Branch 1, Idowu Taylor Street Lokoja Branch Victoria Island 82, Lokoja Kabba Road 153, Old Ojo Road Kuje-Amuwo Lagos State Lokoja Kogi State Agboju Lekki Chevron Branch Lagos State Beside Chevron Roundabout Kwara Along Lekki-Epe Expressway Ilorin Branch Palm Avenue Branch 4, Palm Avenue Lagos State Stadium Shopping Complex Taiwo Road Mushin Marina BoI Branch Ilorin Lagos State Bank of Industry Building Kwara State Simbiat Abiola Branch 23B, Broad Street 20, Simbiat Abiola Road Marina Folawiyo Street Branch Lagos State 24, Wahab Folawiyo Ikeja Unity Road Lagos State Awolowo Road Branch Ilorin Adetokunbo Ademola Branch 58, Awolowo Road Kwara State 30A, Adetokunbo Ademola Ikoyi Victoria Island Lagos State Reservation Road Branch 29A, Reservation Road Lagos State Alausa Branch Gra Ilorin Aspamda Branch 183, Obafemi Awolowo Road Kwara State Zone B Alausa R4, Mercy Café Ikeja Lagos Lagos State Burma Road Apapa Branch Aspamda Plaza 4, Burma Road Trade Fair Complex Creek Road Branch Apapa Lagos State 39, Creek Road Lagos State Maryland Branch Apapa 6, Mobolaji Bank Anthony Way Lagos State Ikeja Lagos State Access Bank Plc Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2011 66 Idejo Branch Dopemu Branch Wharf Road Branch Plot 161E 92, Lagos-Abeokuta Expressway 13-15, Wharf Road Idejo Street Dopemu Apapa Off Adeola Odeku Lagos State Lagos State Victoria Island Festac Branch Opebi Branch Lagos State 4th Avenue 23, Opebi Road Agudosi Branch Festac Ikeja 4, Agudosi Street Lagos State Lagos State Off Ojo Road Oba Akran Branch Ketu Branch Alaba International Market 23-25, Oba Akran Avenue 533, Ikorodu Road Lagos State Ikeja Ketu Toyin Branch Lagos State Lagos State 54, Toyin Street Awolowo Road Branch Orile Coker Branch Ikeja 87, Awolowo Road 3, Alhaji Owokoniran Street Lagos State Lagos State Orile Coker Matori Branch Moloney Branch Lagos State 125, Ladipo Street 34, Moloney Street Alaba Branch Mushin Lagos Island 44/45, Alaba International Market Road Lagos State Lagos State Lagos State Alfred Rewane Road Branch Isolo Branch Agege Branch 1, Kingsway Road 113, Okota Road 653, Abeokuta Express Road Ikoyi Okota Abule Taylor Lagos State Lagos State Abule-Egba Adeniran Ogunsanya Branch Ilupeju Branch Lagos State 71, Adeniran Ogunsanya Street 11, Town Planning Way Obafemi Awolowo Way Branch Surulere Ilupeju 77, Obafemi Awolowo Way Lagos State Lagos State Lagos State Maza Maza Branch Adeniyi Jones Branch Kosoko Branch 17, Sikiru Otunba Street 65, Adeniyi Jones 52/54, Kosoko Street Old Ojo Road Ikeja Lagos Island Lagos-Badagry Expressway Lagos State Lagos State Lagos State Gbagada Branch Ojota Branch Adeola Hopewell Branch Plot 286 1A, Ogudu Road Plot 1697 Oshodi-Apapa Expressway Ojota Adeola Hopewell Gbagada Phase I Lagos State Victoria Island Lagos State Lagos State Adetokunboh Ademola Branch Lekki 1 Branch Plot 1408A, Adetokunbo Ademola Street Marina Branch Plot 7, Blk 2 Victoria Island 48, Marina Street Oniru Private Estate Lagos State Lagos State By Maroko Bus Stop Nnamdi Azikwe Branch Issa Williams Branch Lagos State 68, Nnamdi Azikwe Street 27/29, Issa Wiliams Street Ajose Adeogun Branch Idumota Lagos Island 287, Ajose Adeogun Street Lagos State Lagos State Victoria Island Egbeda Branch Ikorodu Branch Lagos State 35, Akowonjo Road 32, Lagos Road Ikorodu Road Branch Egbeda Ikorodu 38/40, Ikorodu Road Lagos State Lagos State Other Information Jibowu Ojuelegba Branch Atiku Abubakar Hall Branch Lagos State 78, Ojuelegba Road ICC, Lagos International TFC Nahco Branch Tejuosho Lagos-Badagry Expressway Nahco Complex 1 Lagos State Lagos State Murtala Mohammed International Airport Oyingbo Branch Tejuosho Branch Ikeja 7, Coates Street 31, Tejuosho Street Lagos State Lagos State Yaba Lagos State Access Bank Plc Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2011 67 Corporate Directory continued Ikotun Branch Oregun Branch Aguda Branch 4, Ikotun Junction 51, Kudirat Abiola Way 5, Enitan Street Ikotun Oregun Surulere Lagos State Lagos State Lagos State Shomolu Branch Ire Akari Branch Ikota Branch 47, Market/Odunlami Street 1, Godwin Omonua Street Suite E 79-81 and 116-118 Shomolu Ire Akari Estate VGC Lagos State Lagos State Ikota Shopping Complex Old Alaba Motor Park Branch Sabo Yaba Branch Lagos State Old Alaba Motor Park 290, Herbert Macaulay Way Satellite Town Branch Off Ojo Igbede Sabo-Yaba Opposite Tantalizers Alaba International Market Lagos State Old Ojo Road Lagos State Muri Okunola Branch Abule Ado Oroyinyin Branch 211, Muri Okunola Street Satellite Town 3, Oroyinyin Street Victoria Island Lagos State Idumota Lagos State Lasu Branch Lagos State Saka Tinubu Branch Lagos State University Olodi-Apapa Branch 44A, Saka Tinubu Street Ojo Plot 24 Off Adeola Odeku Street Lagos State Opposite Ibru Jetty Lagos State Alagbado Branch Apapa Lawanson Branch Daniel Farm Lagos State 87, Itire/Lawanson Road Km32, Lagos-Abeokuta Expressway Iddo Branch Surulere Agege Iddo Shopping Complex Lagos State Lagos State Iddo Iju Branch Odogunyan Branch Lagos State 134, Water Works Road Opposite 2nd Gate Allen Branch Iju-Ishaga Lagos Polytechnic 13, Allen Avenue Lagos State Lagos State Ikeja Oshodi Branch Ayobo Branch Lagos State Olorunsogo Along Ayobo/Ipaja Road Adeola Odeku Branch Oshodi Opposite Deeper Life Bible Church 44, Adeola Odeku Street Lagos State Ayobo Victoria Island Lagos State Ojodu Berger Branch Lagos State Plot 101 Ejigbo Branch Trade Fair Branch Isheri Road Along Ejigbo/Ikotun Road Opposite Zone F Ojodu Opposite NNPC Junction Block 1 Lagos State Ejigbo Aspamda Lagos State Ajao Estate Branch Lagos State Airport Road Idimu Branch Bode Thomas Branch Ajao Estate 71, Egbeda/Idimu Road 42, Bode Thomas Street Lagos State Idimu Surulere Lagos State Broad Street Ii Branch Lagos State 32, Broad Street Daleko Branch Ijeshatedo Branch Lagos Island Daleko Market Complex Ijeshatedo Lagos State Daleko Surulere Lagos State Ifako-Gbagada Branch Lagos State 6, Diya Street Adeniji Adele Branch Mushin Branch Ifako-Gbagada Oba Adeniji Adele Plaza 279, Agege Motor Road Lagos State Adeniji Adele Road Mushin Lagos Island St. Finbarrs Branch Lagos State Lagos State 67, St. Finbarrs Road Unilag Branch Chemist Bus Stop Adeola Odeku Branch University of Lagos Yaba 11A, Adeola Odeku Street Akoka, Lagos State Lagos State Victoria Island Lagos State Access Bank Plc Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2011 68 Ilupeju Branch Sagamu Branch New Court Branch 25A, Ilupeju By-Pass 71, Akarigbo Road 34, New Court Road Ilupeju Sagamu Dugbe Lagos State Ogun State Oyo State Nasarawa Covenant Branch Bodija Branch Lafia Branch Opposite Covenant University Plot 6 Jos Road Otta University Crescent Ui Second Road Lafia Ogun State Ibadan Nasarawa State Ilaro Branch Oyo State Mararaba Branch Ona Ola Quarters Ogbomoso Branch Plot 3316 Opposite Fire Station Apake Area Abuja Keffi Expressway Ilaro Ogbomoso Mararaba Ogun State Oyo State Nasarawa State Ondo Iwo Road Branch Niger Ado Owo Road Branch 4, Iwo Road Suleja Branch 11, Ado Owo Road Ibadan NNPC/PPMC Depot Ondo State Oyo State Suleja Oba Adesida Road Branch Ekotedo Branch Niger State 126, Oba Adesida Road 50, Adekunle Fajuyi Road Minna Branch Akure Ekotedo 2, Old Airway Road Ondo State Iya-Olobe Off Boso Road Oyo State Ondo Branch Minna UCH Ibadan Branch Yaba Ondo Niger State Beside Blood Bank Ondo State Suleja Branch UCH Suleman Barau Road Adekunle Ajasin University Campus Branch Ibadan Opposite Gamco Motors Adekunle Ajasin University Campus Oyo State Niger State Ondo State Challenge Branch Bida Branch Osun Challenge Roundabout Along BCC Road Oshogbo Branch Ibadan Niger State 2, Obafemi Awolowo Road Oyo State Igbonna Ogun Oyo Branch Osun State Oke Ilewo Branch Beside Conoil Filling Station 1, Lilubu Street Ile Ife Branch Ilorin-Ogbomosho Expressway Oke Ilewo 26, Aderemi Road Oyo State Ibara Ile Ife Ojoo Branch Ogun State Osun State Old Ibadan-Oyo Road Rccg Camp Branch Oau Branch Besides Olona Filling Station Redemption Camp Obafemi Awolowo University Campus Oyo State Km 46/85 Ile Ife Ring Road Branch Lagos-Ibadan Expressway Osun State Opposite Mobil Filling Station Mowe Ilesha Branch Ring Road Ogun State 107A, Orinkiran Street Ibadan Fajuyi Road Branch Oshogbo Road Oyo State 1-5, Fajuyi Road Osun State Bodija Branch Sapon Oyo Plot 32 Ogun State Dugbe Market Branch Bodija Ui Road 1, Jimoh Odutola Street Bodija Other Information Otta Branch 145, Lagos-Abeokuta Expressway Dugbe Market Ibadan Sango Otta Ibadan Oyo State Ogun State Oyo State Plateau Ijebu-Ode Branch Iwo Road Branch Bank Road Branch 19, Ibadan Road 37, Iwo Road 37, Beach Road Ijebu Ode Ibadan Plateau State Ogun State Oyo State Access Bank Plc Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2011 69 Corporate Directory continued Jos 2 Branch Trans Amadi Branch Taraba 1, Murtala Mohammed Way 41, Trans Amadi Industrial Layout Jalingo Branch Jos Port Harcourt 57B, Hammaruwa Way Plateau State Rivers State Jalingo Bukuru Branch Rumukurishi Branch Taraba State Bukuru-Jos Road Plot 382, Port Harcourt-Aba Expressway Jalingo Branch Bukuru Port Harcourt 240, Hammaruwa Way Jos South Local Rivers State Jalingo Plateau State Uniport Branch Taraba State Rivers University of Port Harcourt Yobe Agip Road Branch Port Harcourt Damaturu Branch No 1, Agip Road Rivers State 12B, Maiduguri Road Mile 4 Ikokwu Branch Along Potiskum Damaturu Road Rumueme Ikowku Damaturu Port Harcourt Rivers State Yobe State Rivers State Obigbo Branch Biu Branch Bank Road Branch Obigbo I, Damaturu Road 10A, Bank Road Rivers State Biu Rivers State Judiciary Yobe State Port Harcourt Woji Branch Rivers State Woji Zamfara Rivers State Gusau Branch Bonny Cash Centre Canteen Road 64, Hospital Road Garrison Branch Beside Fbn Bonny Island 82/88, Aba Road Gusau Rivers State Beside MTN Building Zamfara State Port Harcourt Trans Amadi Branch Rivers State Talata Mafara Branch Plot 10 Sokoto Road Trans Amadi Industrial Layout Eastern Bulkcement Branch Opposite LGA Office Near Erijoy Hotel By Eastern Bulkcement Company Ltd Zamfara State Port Harcourt Wofe Road Rivers State Rivers State Olu Obasanjo Branch Azikiwe Road Branch 329, Olu Obasanjo Road 5, Azikiwe Road Port Harcourt Near Government House Rivers State Port Harcourt Rivers State Azikiwe Road Branch 12, Azikiwe Road Rsust Branch Port Harcourt River State University Science Rivers State and Technology Port Harcourt Rumuokoro Branch Rivers State 679, Ikwerre Road Rumuokoro Sokoto Port Harcourt Sokoto Branch Rivers State Opposite Afribank Plc Maiduguri Road Eleme Branch Sokoto PPMC Depot Sokoto State Eleme Rivers State Sokoto Branch 20, Abdullahi Fodio Road Olu Obasanjo Branch 2 Sokoto Plot 9 Sokoto State Olu Obasanjo Road Port Harcourt Usman Danfodio University Branch Rivers State Main Campus Usman Danfodio University Sokoto Sokoto State Access Bank Plc Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2011 70 ATM LOCATIONS Access Bank Plc, Federal Mortgage Bank Access Bank Plc, 62 New Market Road, Building Central Business Area Federal Anambra, Branch Access Bank Plc,15 Azikiwe Road Aba, Capital Territory, Abuja, Branch Access Bank Plc, Umunze Ogbunka Road Abia, Branch Access Bank Plc, 6 Jos Street opposite Orumba North Local Govt Anambra State, Access Bank Plc, 2, Library Way Umuahia Sharon Ultimate Hotel Federal Capital Anambra, Branch Abia, Branch Territory, Abuja, Branch Access Bank Plc, 1 Ajaekwe Street Access Bank Plc, 132, Faulks Road Access Bank Plc, Plot 599, Cadastral Zone Odoagba, Anambra, Branch Aba Abia State, Abia, Branch A3 Gwarjo Close Off Gimbiya Street, Access Bank Plc, Ihiala Branch Anambra Abuja, Branch Access Bank Plc, Duke House 45 Azikwe State, Anambra, Branch Road Abia State, Abia, Branch Access Bank Plc, Plot 81 Ralph Shodeinde Access Bank Plc, Up Iweka Onitsha Str Opp Fed Min of Finance Central Federal Access Bank Plc, 69 Azikwiwe Road Aba, (Electronic Mkt Branch), Anambra, Branch Capital Territory, Abuja, Branch Abia, Branch Access Bank Plc, Building Material Market, Access Bank Plc, Plot Number 312, Nyanya Access Bank Plc, Plot 6 Trading/Residential Anambra, Branch Sports Centre Layout, Abuja, Branch Area Umuahia, Abia, Branch Access Bank Plc, Nnamdi Azikiwe Access Bank Plc, Obasanjo Space Village Access Bank Plc, Plot 207 University Awka Anambra State, Airport Road Federal Capital Territory, Cadastral Zone Federal Capital Territory Anambra, Branch Abuja, Branch Abuja, Abuja, Branch Access Bank Plc, Nigeria Stock Exchange Access Bank Plc, Plot 1037, Shafa Access Bank Plc, Plot 2401 Cadastrals Complex Onitsha Anambra State, Shopping Centre by Old Federal Zone A7, Abuja, Branch Anambra, Branch Secretariat, Federal Capital Territory, Access Bank Plc, National Assembly White Abuja, Branch Access Bank Plc, University of Agriculture House Basement Abuja, Abuja, Branch Umudike Main Campus Abia State, Access Bank Plc, 13/15 Atiku Abubakar Anambra, Branch Access Bank Plc, Zone B2.582, Dei Dei (Mubi) Road, Adamawa, Branch Building Material Intl Market Federal Access Bank Plc, 1 Ajaekwe Street Access Bank Plc, Along Oron Road Etiema Capital Territory, Abuja, Branch Odoagba, Anambra, Branch Str. Akwa Ibom State, Akwa Ibom, Branch Access Bank Plc, Erisco Bonpet Plaza Wuse Access Bank Plc, 24 Muritala Mohammed Access Bank Plc, 1 Abak Road, Market, Abuja, Branch Way Bauchi, Bauchi, Branch Akwa Ibom, Branch Access Bank Plc, Block B NNPC Towers Access Bank Plc, along Kano-Duara Rd, Access Bank Plc, PPMC Depot, Hm Way CBD Federal Capital Territory, Bauchi, Branch Akwa Ibom, Branch Abuja, Branch Access Bank Plc, Plot 3, Onopa Access Bank Plc, 45 Muritala Mohammed Access Bank Plc, Tofa House Plot 770 Commercial Layout Onopa, Bayelsa, Way, Akwa Ibom, Branch Central Business District Federal Capital Branch Territory, Abuja, Branch Access Bank Plc, 32, Aka Road opposite Access Bank Plc, Km 6, Mbiama/Yenagoa Gulf Bank Akwa Ibom State, Akwa Ibom, Access Bank Plc, Plot 619, Gana Street Road, Bayesla, Branch Branch Cadastral Zone A05 Cadastral Zone A0 Access Bank Plc, 5 Ogiri Oko Road G.R.A, Federal Capital Territory, Abuja, Branch Access Bank Plc, along Grace Bill Road Benue, Branch Akwa Ibom State, Akwa Ibom, Branch Access Bank Plc, 356, Special Hospital Access Bank Plc, Benue Cement Factory Road Gwagwalada Federal Capital Access Bank Plc, 30 Nnewi Road Anambra Km 72, Makurdi -Gboko Road, Benue, Territory, Abuja, Branch State Onistha 1, Anambra, Branch Branch Access Bank Plc, Federal Secretariat Access Bank Plc, Block 015 Zone 1 Edo Access Bank Plc, 19, Federal Road Oturkpo Complex, Abuja, Branch Ezemewi Road, Nnewi, Anambra, Branch Benue State, Benue, Branch Access Bank Plc, Plot 903 Obafemi Access Bank Plc, 222 Zik Avenue, Access Bank Plc, 5/7 J.S. Tarka Way NUM Awolowo Way Federal Capital Territory, Anambra, Branch Intl Bank, Katsina State, Benue, Branch Abuja, Branch Access Bank Plc, 48 Port Harcourt Road Access Bank Plc, YJunction Katsina Ala Access Bank Plc, along Akintola Boulevard Bridge Head Anambra State, Anambra, Road Zaki Ibiam Benue State, Benue, Other Information Garki Federal Capital Territory, Abuja, Branch Branch Branch Access Bank Plc, Uga Road, Ekwulobia Access Bank Plc, 45 Muritala Mohammed Access Bank Plc, Federal Ministry of Justice Ekwulobia Aguata Lga, Anambra, Branch Way, Cross, Branch Complex Federal Capital Territory Abuja, Abuja, Branch Access Bank Plc Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2011 71 Corporate Directory continued Access Bank Plc, Hospital Road Ogoja Access Bank Plc, Plot 5, Commercial Block Access Bank Plc, Ashaka Cement Factory, Cross River State, Cross, Branch A Along New Iyin Road, Ekiti, Branch Gombe, Branch Access Bank Plc, 45 Muritala Mohammed Access Bank Plc, 5 Okpara Avenue, Enugu Access Bank Plc, 18 Wetheral Road, Way, Cross River, Branch State Enugu 1, Enugu, Branch Imo, Branch Offsite, Unicem Factory, Calabar, Cross Access Bank Plc, 12 Enugu Road, Access Bank Plc, Federal Polytechnic River, Offsite Enugu, Branch Nekede Imo State, Imo, Branch Access Bank Plc, 16/18 Bogobiri Road, Access Bank Plc, 42 Kenyatta Street Enugu Access Bank Plc, Eke-Ahiara Junction Cross Rivers, Branch State, Enugu, Branch Mbaise, Imo, Branch Access Bank Plc, 304 Nnebisi Road, Access Bank Plc, Enugu State University Access Bank Plc, Plot 10/11 Sani Abacha Delta, Branch Agbani Town Enugu State, Enugu, Branch Way Dutse, Jigawa, Branch Access Bank Plc, 126, Old Asaba Road Access Bank Plc, Agbani Road Agbani Access Bank Plc, 26D Ali Akilu Road Asaba Road, Delta State, Delta, Branch Main Town Enugu, Enugu, Branch Kaduna State, Kaduna, Branch Access Bank Plc, Robson Shopping Access Bank Plc, University of Nigeria Access Bank Plc, 16, River Road, Zaria, Complex Deco Road Delta State, Delta, Nsukka Enugu State, Enugu, Branch Kaduna, Branch Branch Access Bank Plc, Abakpa Nike Enugu Access Bank Plc, 314 Kachia Road Kaduna Access Bank Plc, I Damaturu Road Biu Enugu State, Enugu, Branch Kaduna State, Kaduna, Branch Yobe/Borno, Delta, Branch Access Bank Plc, 67 Ogui Road by Nnamdi Access Bank Plc, A2 Ahmadu Bello Way Access Bank Plc, Warri Road Sapele Delta Azikiwe Stadium, Enugu, Branch Kaduna State, Kaduna, Branch State, Delta, Branch Access Bank Plc, University of Nigeria Access Bank Plc, NNPC Kaduna Kaduna Access Bank Plc, 44 Ogoja Road, Enugu Campus, Enugu, Branch State, Kaduna, Branch Ebonyi, Branch Access Bank Plc, Plot 1195 Aminu Kano Access Bank Plc, Gumi Main Market, Access Bank Plc, 41 Ogoja Road, Crescent Wuse Ii (opp. Amal Court), Fct, Kaduna, Branch Ebonyi, Branch Branch Offsite, Kafanchan, Kaduna, Offsite Access Bank Plc, 135 Akpapava Road, Edo, Access Bank Plc, Plot 833 Adetokunbo Access Bank Plc, 7, Kwato Road Ungwan Branch Ademola Crsnt. Wuse 2, Fct, Branch Rimi Gra Kaduna State, Kaduna, Branch Access Bank Plc, 74 Edo Textile Mill Road, Access Bank Plc, Plot 247 Herbert Access Bank Plc, 16/20 Bida Road, Edo, Branch Macaulay Way, Fct, Branch Kaduna, Branch Access Bank Plc, Alumni Centre University Access Bank Plc, National Assembly White Access Bank Plc, 146 Murtala Mohmd of Benin Ugbowo Benin City, Edo, Branch House Basement Abuja, Fct, Branch Way Kano State, Kano, Branch Access Bank Plc, 23 Airport Road Benin Access Bank Plc, Ahmadu Bello Way Garki Offsite, 26D Ali Akilu Road Kaduna State, Edo, Edo, Branch Ii Abuja, Fct, Branch Kano, Offsite Offsite, 3, Oroyinyin Street Idumota Lagos, Access Bank Plc, Plot 87 Yakubu Gowon Access Bank Plc, 24 Bello Road Kano Kano Edo, Offsite Crescent Asokoro, Fct, Branch State, Kano, Branch Access Bank Plc, New Site Igbinedion Access Bank Plc, Plot 59, Gado Nasko Access Bank Plc, 3B Bank Road Kano State, University Campus Edo State, Edo, Branch Road Kubwa, Fct, Branch Kano, Branch Access Bank Plc, Beside Fed Poly Auchi I Access Bank Plc, Erisco Bonpet Plaza Wuse Access Bank Plc, Ibrahim Taiwo Road by Iyekhei /Polytechnic Road, Edo, Branch Market, Fct, Branch Aib Kano State, Kano, Branch Access Bank Plc, 6 Akhere Lane Edo State, Access Bank Plc, Plot 256 Herbert Access Bank Plc, Main Campus Bayero Edo, Branch Macaulay Way behind Unity Bank Head University Kano State, Kano, Branch Office Abuja Nigeria, Fct, Branch Access Bank Plc, 45 Akpakpava Street, Access Bank Plc, Aminu Kano Teaching Edo, Branch Access Bank Plc, 8 New Market Road, Hospital Kano State, Kano, Branch Gombe, Branch Access Bank Plc, 164 Sapele Road, Access Bank Plc, Zaria Road, Katsina State, Opposite NPDC, Sapele Road, Edo, Branch Access Bank Plc, Dukku Local Government Kano, Branch Secretariat, Gombe State, Gombe, Branch Access Bank Plc, 170 Uselu Lagos Road, Access Bank Plc, Kafanchan, Kano, Branch Edo, Branch Access Bank Plc, Deba Gra, Yamaltu Deba Lga, Gombe, Branch Access Bank Plc, Along Katsina Road By Bichi Junction Kano State, Kano, Branch Access Bank Plc Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2011 72 Access Bank Plc, 17/18 France Road Kano Access Bank Plc, 17 Sikiru Otunba St Old Access Bank Plc, 3, Alhaji Owokoniran Kano State, Kano, Branch Ojo Road Lagos Badagry Expressway, Street Orile Coker Lagos State, Lagos, Lagos, Branch Branch Access Bank Plc, 12B Post Office Road, Kano, Branch Access Bank Plc, Plot 1697 Adeola Access Bank Plc, Shop A65 Alaba Intl Hopewell Victoria Island, Lagos, Branch Market Ojo, Lagos, Branch Offsite, 13/15 Atiku Abubakar (Mubi) Road, Katsina, Offsite Access Bank Plc, 48, Marina Street, Lagos Access Bank Plc, 653 Abeokuta Express State, Lagos, Branch Road Abule Taylor Abule-Egba Lagos Access Bank Plc, Ibb Way opp. NUM Intl Access Bank Plc, 16 Apongbon Street State, Lagos, Branch Bank, Katsina, Branch Apongbon, Lagos, Branch Access Bank Plc, 77 Obafemi Awolowo Access Bank Plc, along Funtua Road Near Access Bank Plc, 32 Lagos Road, Lagos, Way (Man House), Lagos State, Lagos, Total Filling Station Katsina, Katsina, Branch Branch Branch Access Bank Plc, Conia House opposite Access Bank Plc, 52/54 Kosoko Street Access Bank Plc, along Kano Road besides Kano Plaza Trade Fair Complex, Lagos, Lagos State, Lagos, Branch Nitel Office Katsina State, Katsina, Branch Branch Access Bank Plc, 1A Ogudu Road, Lagos Access Bank Plc, 106 Ibb Way, Katsina, Access Bank Plc, Teju Osho Street, Yaba, State, Lagos, Branch Branch Lagos, Branch Access Bank Plc, Plot 1408A Adetokunbo Access Bank Plc, 1 Jos Road G.R.A, Kebbi, Access Bank Plc, 92 Lagos/Abeokuta Ademola Street Victoria Island, Lagos, Branch Expressway, Lagos, Branch Branch Access Bank Plc, Obajana Cement Factory, Access Bank Plc, Plot 650A 32 Road 3rd Access Bank Plc, 68 Nnamdi Azikwe Road Kogi, Branch Avenue Festac Town, Lagos, Branch Street Idumota Lagos State, Lagos, Branch Access Bank Plc, along Kogi Road, Kogi, Access Bank Plc, 23-25 Oba Akran Access Bank Plc, 35 Akowonjo Road Lagos Branch Avenue, Lagos, Branch State, Lagos, Branch Access Bank Plc, 82 Lokoja Kabba Road Access Bank Plc, 87, Awolowo Road, Access Bank Plc, 78 Ojuelegba Road Lokoja, Kogi, Branch Lagos, Branch Tejuosho Lagos State, Lagos, Branch Access Bank Plc, 24 Wahab Folawiyo Unity Access Bank Plc, 34, Moloney Street, Access Bank Plc, Iddo Shopping Complex Road, Kwara, Branch Lagos, Branch Iddo, Lagos, Lagos, Branch Access Bank Plc, 29A Reservation Road Access Bank Plc, 113, Okota Road, Lagos, Access Bank Plc, 4 Ikotun Junction Ikotun Gra Ilorin, Kwara, Branch Branch Lagos State, Lagos, Branch Access Bank Plc, Stadium Shopping Access Bank Plc, 11, Town Planning Way Access Bank Plc, 47, Mkt/Odunlami Street Complex Taiwo Road Ilorin, Kwara, Branch Ilupeju Lagos State, Lagos, Branch Lagos State, Lagos, Branch Access Bank Plc, 183, Obafemi Awolowo Access Bank Plc, Plot 286, Oshodi Apapa Access Bank Plc, Old Alaba Motor Park Off Road Lagos State, Lagos, Branch Expressway Gbagada Phase I Lagos State, Lagos, Branch Ojo Igbede Lagos State, Lagos, Branch Access Bank Plc, 24A Creek Road Apapa, Lagos, Branch Access Bank Plc, Plot 7, Blk 2, Oniru Private Access Bank Plc, 3, Oroyinyin Street Estate by Maroko Bus Stop Lagos State, Idumota Lagos, Lagos, Branch Access Bank Plc, Plot 1617, Damole/Idejo Lagos, Branch Access Bank Plc, 8 Apapa Express Way Street Victoria Island, Lagos, Branch Access Bank Plc, 287, Ajose Adeogun Ibafon Coconut, Lagos, Branch Access Bank Plc, 4 Agudosi St, off Ojo Street Victoria Island, Lagos, Branch Access Bank Plc, Muritala Mohamed Way Road Alaba Intl Market Lagos State, Access Bank Plc, 38/40 Ikorodu Road Oyingbo Ebute-Metta, Lagos, Branch Lagos, Branch Jibowu Lagos State, Lagos, Branch Access Bank Plc, 13, Allen Avenue Ikeja Access Bank Plc, 54 Toyin Street Lagos Offsite, Nahco Complex 1 Murtala Lagos, Lagos, Branch State, Lagos, Branch Mohammed International Airport Road, Access Bank Plc, 44, Adeola Odeku Street, Access Bank Plc, 125 Ladipo Street Lagos Ikeja Lagos State, Lagos, Offsite State, Lagos, Branch Lagos, Branch Access Bank Plc, 13-15 Wharf Road Apapa Other Information Access Bank Plc, 1, Kingsway Road Ikoyi, Access Bank Plc, Opposite Zone F Block 1, Lagos State, Lagos, Branch Lagos State, Lagos, Branch Lagos State, Lagos, Branch Access Bank Plc, 23, Opebi Road, Lagos, Access Bank Plc, 71 Adeniran Ogunsanya Access Bank Plc, Ijeshatedo Surulere Lagos Branch Street Surulere. Lagos State, Lagos, Branch State, Lagos, Branch Access Bank Plc, 533, Ikorodu Road Ketu, Lagos, Branch Access Bank Plc Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2011 73 Corporate Directory continued Access Bank Plc, 279, Agege Motor Road Access Bank Plc, along Ejigbo/Ikotun Road Access Bank Plc, 153 Old Ojo Road Mushin Lagos State, Lagos, Branch Opp NNPC Junction Lagos State, Lagos, Kuje-Amuwo Agboju, Lagos, Branch Branch Access Bank Plc, University of Lagos Akoka Access Bank Plc, 171 Abeokuta Lagos State, Lagos, Branch Access Bank Plc, 71 Egbeda/Idimu Road Expressway Iyana Ipaja Ipaja, Lagos, Idimu Lagos State, Lagos, Branch Branch Access Bank Plc, 51, Kudirat Abiola Way Oregun Road Lagos State, Lagos, Branch Access Bank Plc, Daleko Market Complex Access Bank Plc, 4 Palm Avenue Mushin, Daleko Market, Lagos, Branch Lagos, Branch Access Bank Plc, 1 Godwin Omonua Street Ire Akari Estate Lagos State, Lagos, Branch Access Bank Plc, Oba Adeniji Adele Plaza Access Bank Plc, 20 Simbiat Abiola Road Adeniji Adele Road Lagos State, Lagos, Ikeja, Lagos, Branch Access Bank Plc, 290, Herbert Macaulay Branch Way Sabo Lagos State, Lagos, Branch Access Bank Plc, 30A Adetokunbo Access Bank Plc, 4 Burma Road Apapa, Ademola Victoria Island, Lagos, Branch Access Bank Plc, 211 Muri Okunola Street Lagos, Branch Victoria Island Lagos State, Lagos, Branch Access Bank Plc, Zone B R4 Mercy Cafe Access Bank Plc, 6 Obun Eko Street Aspamda Plaza Trade Fair Complex, Lagos, Access Bank Plc, 44A Saka Tinubu Street Idumota, Lagos, Branch Branch off Adeola Odeku Street Victoria Island Lagos, Lagos, Branch Access Bank Plc, 134/136 Broad Street, Access Bank Plc, 6 Mobolaji Bank-Anthony Lagos, Branch Way Ikeja, Lagos, Branch Access Bank Plc, 87 Itire / Lawanson Road Surulere, Lagos, Branch Access Bank Plc, Plot 1/3 Enitan Street Access Bank Plc, 150 Ogunlana Drive Surulere, Lagos, Branch Surulere, Lagos, Branch Access Bank Plc, 134 Water Works Road Iju-Ishaga, Lagos, Branch Offsite, Bagco Factory, Iganmu, Surulere, Access Bank Plc, Plot 650A 32 Road 3rd Lagos, Offsite Avenue Festac Town, Lagos, Branch Access Bank Plc, Olorunsogo Oshodi, Lagos, Branch Access Bank Plc, 7 Ayangburen Road Access Bank Plc, Plot 15 Ligali Ayorinde, Ikorodu, Lagos, Branch Lagos, Branch Access Bank Plc, Plot 101, Isheri Road Lagos State, Lagos, Branch Access Bank Plc, 84 Allen Avenue Ikeja, Access Bank Plc, 25A Ilupeju Bye-Pass Lagos, Branch Ilupeju, Lagos, Branch Access Bank Plc, 18 Osolo Way Ajao, Lagos, Branch Offsite, Newco Factory Oba Akran, Lagos, Access Bank Plc, I Point Road, Apapa, Offsite Lagos, Lagos, Branch Access Bank Plc, 32, Broad Street, Lagos, Branch Access Bank Plc, Plot 1665 Oyin Jolayemi Access Bank Plc, 40A/40B Ogba Ijaiye Street, Victoria Island, Lagos, Branch Road Ogba, Lagos, Branch Access Bank Plc, 6 Diya Street, Lagos, Branch Offsite, Oko Awo Street, Karim Kotun Access Bank Plc, 18 Osolo Way Ajao, Street, Victoria Island, Lagos, Offsite Lagos, Branch Access Bank Plc, 67 St Finbarrs Road Chemist Bus Stop, Lagos, Branch Offsite, Oladele Olashore Street, Off Oyin Access Bank Plc, College of Medicine Jolayemi, Victoria Island, Lagos, Offsite Ishaga Road Idi-Araba, Lagos, Branch Access Bank Plc, Plot 1/3 Enitan Street Surulere, Lagos, Branch Unico Factory, Oba Akran, Lagos, Offsite Access Bank Plc, Commerce House 1 Idowu Taylor Street, Lagos, Branch Access Bank Plc, Ikota Shopping Complex Access Bank Plc, 30 King George V Road Lekki, Lagos, Branch Onikan, Lagos, Branch Access Bank Plc, Idowu Taylor, Street, Victoria Island, Lagos, Offsite Access Bank Plc, opposite Tantalizers Old Access Bank Plc, Plot 1617, Damole/Idejo Ojo Road Abule Ado Lagos State, Lagos, Street Victoria Island, Lagos, Branch Access Bank Plc, beside Chevron Round Branch About along Lekki -Epe Expressway, Lagos, Access Bank Plc, 8/10 Commercial Road, Branch Access Bank Plc, Lagos State University Ojo Lagos, Branch Lagos State, Lagos, Branch Access Bank Plc, Bank of Industry Buliding Access Bank Plc, 53 Adeniyi Jones Street Broad Street, Marina, Lagos, Branch Access Bank Plc, Daniel Farm Km32 Lagos Ikeja, Lagos, Branch Abeokuta Agege Lagos State, Lagos, Access Bank Plc, 11A, Adeola Odeku Offsite, Dangote Adstart Factory, Oba Branch Street Victoria Island, Lagos, Branch Akran, Lagos, Offsite Access Bank Plc, opp. 2nd Gate Lagos Access Bank Plc, 58 Awolowo Road Ikoyi, Offsite, Dangote Agrosack Factory, Oba Polytechnic Lagos State, Lagos, Branch Lagos, Branch Akaran, Lagos, Offsite Access Bank Plc, 32 Jos Road, Nasarawa, Access Bank Plc, Kirikiri Lighter Terminal 2 Branch Tincan Island, Lagos, Branch Access Bank Plc Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2011 74 Access Bank Plc, Plot 3316, Abuja Keffi Access Bank Plc, 107A, Orinkiran Street Access Bank Plc, Ikowku Rivers State, Expressway Mararaba Nasarawa State, Oshogbo Road, Osun, Branch Rivers, Branch Nasarawa, Branch Access Bank Plc, 34 New Court Road Access Bank Plc, Obigbo, Rivers State, Access Bank Plc, 2 Old Airway Road off Dugbe, Oyo, Branch Rivers, Branch Boso Road, Niger, Branch Access Bank Plc, Plot 6 University Crescent, Access Bank Plc, Woji, Rivers State, Rivers, Access Bank Plc, Suleman Barau Road Oyo, Branch Branch Opposite Gamco Motors, Niger, Branch Access Bank Plc, Apake Area, Ogbomoso Access Bank Plc, 82/88 Aba Road beside Access Bank Plc, Along BCC Road Niger Oyo State, Oyo, Branch Mtn Building Opp.Tarpaulin House Rivers State, Niger, Branch State, Rivers, Branch Access Bank Plc, 4, Iwo Road Ibadan Oyo Access Bank Plc, Nicon Building 1 Bank State, Oyo, Branch Access Bank Plc, by Eastern Bulkcement Road Minna, Niger, Branch Coy Ltd Wofe Road Rivers State, Rivers, Access Bank Plc, 50 Adekunle Fajuyi Road Access Bank Plc, NNPC Suleja Depot, Branch Eko Tedo Iya-Olobe, Oyo, Branch Niger, Branch Access Bank Plc, 5, Azikiwe Road near Access Bank Plc, beside Blood Bank Uch Access Bank Plc, Redemption Camp Government House Rivers State, Rivers, Ibadan, Oyo State Oyo State, Oyo, Branch Km 46/85 Lagos/Ibadan Express Way Branch Ogun State, Ogun, Branch Access Bank Plc, Challenge Roundabout Access Bank Plc, River State University of Ibadan Oyo State, Oyo, Branch Access Bank Plc, 14 Lalubu Street Oke – Science and Technology Rivers State, Ilewo Abeokuta, Ogun, Branch Access Bank Plc, Old Ibadan/Oyo Road Rivers, Branch besides Olona Filling Station Oyo State, Access Bank Plc, 145, Lagos-Abeokuta Access Bank Plc, Plot 10 Trans Amadi Oyo, Branch Express Way Ogun State, Ogun, Branch Industrial Layout near Erijoy Hotel, Rivers, Access Bank Plc, opposite Mobil Filling Branch Access Bank Plc, 19, Ibadan Road Ogun Station Ring Road Oyo State, Oyo, Branch State, Ogun, Branch Access Bank Plc, 329A Olu Obasanjo Road Access Bank Plc, 1 Jimoh Odutola Street Port-Harcourt, Rivers, Branch Access Bank Plc, 71, Akarigbo Rd Sagamu Dugbe Market, Oyo, Branch Ogun State, Ogun, Branch Access Bank Plc, 12 Azikiwe Road, Rivers, Access Bank Plc, opposite Covenant Access Bank Plc, 37 Iwo Road, Oyo, Branch University Otta Ogun State, Ogun, Branch Branch Access Bank Plc, 64 Hospital Road, Rivers, Access Bank Plc, Ona Ola Quarters opposite Access Bank Plc, Plot 32 Bodija Ui Road Branch Fire Station Ogun State, Ogun, Branch Bodija, Oyo, Branch Access Bank Plc, No 1 Agip Road beside Access Bank Plc, Wempco Factory, Ibafo, Access Bank Plc, 37, Beach Road, Jos, Kilimanjaro Mile 4 Rumueme, Rivers, Ogun, Offsite Plateau, Branch Branch Access Bank Plc, Bank Road Agbara Access Bank Plc, 28A Rwang Pam Road, Access Bank Plc, Bank Road opposite High Industrial Estate, Ogun, Branch Plateau, Branch Court, Rivers, Branch Access Bank Plc, 11 Ado Owo Road, Ondo Access Bank Plc, Yelwa Junction Bukuru, Access Bank Plc, 679 Ikwerre Road State, Ondo, Branch Plateau, Branch Rumuokoro Round About, Rivers, Branch Access Bank Plc, Plot 5, Commercial Block Access Bank Plc, PPMC Depot, Rivers, Access Bank Plc, 20 Abdullahi Fodio Road, A along New Iyin Road, Ondo, Branch Branch Sokoto, Branch Access Bank Plc, No 17 Oyemekun Road Access Bank Plc, Plot 9 Olu Obasanjo Road Access Bank Plc, Main Campus Usman Akure, Ondo, Branch PHC Rivers State, Rivers, Branch Danfodio University, Sokoto, Branch Access Bank Plc, Yaba Ondo, Ondo, Branch Access Bank Plc, Plot 446/447 Trans Amadi Access Bank Plc, opp. Afribank Plc Industrial Layout Port Harcourt, Rivers, Maiduguri Road Sokoto, Sokoto, Branch Access Bank Plc, Adekunle Ajasin Branch University Campus, Ondo, Branch Access Bank Plc, 57B Hammaruwa Way Access Bank Plc, Plot 382, Port HarcourtJalingo, Taraba, Branch Access Bank Plc, Plot 2 Aiyedun Layout Aba Expres Port Harcourt Rivers State, Gbongan, Osun, Branch Access Bank Plc, 12B Maiduguri Road Other Information Rivers, Branch along Potiskum Damaturu Road, Yobe, Access Bank Plc, 26 Aderemi Road Osun Access Bank Plc, University of PortBranch State Ile Ife, Osun, Branch Harcourt Port-Harcourt Rivers State, Rivers, Access Bank Plc, Obafemi Awolowo Access Bank Plc, 10 Sani Abacha Way, Branch University Campus Osun State, Osun, Zamfara, Branch Branch Access Bank Plc Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2011 75 Contact Information This Report has been prepared in line with the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Sustainability Guidelines to GRI Application level B+. We have done this as a way of adding value to our CSR Report and the reporting process, while disclosing, and being accountable to, our internal and external Stakeholders on an ongoing basis. Access Bank Plc welcomes feedback from all its Stakeholders in respect of the content of this report and any additional information. We are interested in hearing what our Stakeholders think about our sustainability performance and reporting efforts and how we can improve both. Please email your thoughts and suggestions to: Omobolanle Babatunde Head, Corporate Social Responsibility Access Bank Plc The Plaza Plot 999c, Danmole Street Off Adeola Odeku/Idejo Street PMB 80150 Victoria Island Lagos Nigeria E: omobolanle.babatunde@accessbankplc.com E: corporatesocialresponsibility@accessbankplc.com W: www.accessbankplc.com Access Bank Plc Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2011 76 BANKERS’ COMMITTEE JOINT STATEMENT OF COMMITMENT BY MEMBERS OF THE BANKERS COMMITTEE “THE NIGERIAN SUSTAINABLE BANKING PRINCIPLES” As leaders in the Nigerian financial sector, we are uniquely positioned to further economic SIGNATORIES growth and development in Nigeria through our regulatory, lending and investment Sanusi Lamido Sanusi Central Bank of Nigeria activities across a diversity of segments and sectors of the Nigerian economy. The context in which we make business decisions is, however, characterized by complex and growing Umaru Ibrahim Nigeria Deposit Insurance Corporation challenges relating to population growth, urban migration, poverty, destruction of Tunde O. Lemo Central Bank of Nigeria biodiversity and ecosystems, pressure on food sources, prices and security, lack of energy Suleiman Barau and infrastructure and potential climate change legislation from our trade partners, Central Bank of Nigeria amongst others. Sarah O. Alade Central Bank of Nigeria Increasingly, it has been demonstrated that the development imperative in Nigeria should Kingsley Moghalu Central Bank of Nigeria not only be economically viable, but socially relevant and environmentally responsible. We Aigboje Aig-Imoukhuede recognize that we have a role and responsibility to deliver positive development impacts to Access Bank Plc society whilst protecting the communities and environments in which we operate – for Emeka Emuwa today's generation as well as for future generations. We believe that such an approach, Citi Bank Nigeria Limited one of sustainable banking, is consistent with our individual and collective business Alex Otti objectives, and can stimulate further economic growth and opportunity as well as enhance Diamond Bank Plc innovation and competitiveness. Jibril Aku Ecobank Plc Given the above considerations, we are prepared to take steps to ensure that our business Ahmed Karu Enterprise Bank Ltd decision-making activities take these considerations into account and are, where applicable, consistent with relevant international standards and practices, but with due Gbolahan Folayan Equitorial Trust Bank Ltd regard for the Nigerian context and distinct development needs. Ladi Balogun First City Monument Bank Plc Consequently, we hereby state our commitment to developing and Reginald Ihejiahi Fidelity Bank Plc launching a voluntary set of Nigerian sustainable banking principles which Suzanne Iroche will include: Finbank Plc Stephen Olabisi Onasanya 1) An over-arching set of guidelines relating to our: (a) direct First Bank of Nigeria Plc impact on communities and the environment as a result of our Segun Agbaje own business operations; and (b) indirect impacts on Guaranty Trust Bank Plc communities and the environment as a result of our lending and Victor Etuokwu Intercontinental Bank Plc investment activities; Oti Ikomi Keystone Bank Ltd 2) A set of sector-specific guidelines, including as a first priority: (a) Faith Tuedor-Mathews oil and gas; (b) power (with a focus on renewable energy); a n d Mainstreet Bank Ltd (c) agriculture and related water resource issues; John Aboh Oceanic Bank Plc 3) A commitment to raising awareness and developing meaningful and Kehinde Durosinmi-Etti lasting local capacity to manage emerging environmental and social Skye Bank Plc risks and opportunities within our internal operations, as well as to Sola David-Borha Stanbic IBTC Bank Plc relevant financial sector government agencies, learning institutions and service providers. Bola Adesola Standard Chartered Bank Nigeria Ltd Razack Adeyemi Adeola Sterling Bank Plc In developing these sustainable banking principles, we recognize the need for a process Phillips Oduoza which involves the engagement of relevant stakeholders and industry experts. We also United Bank of Africa Plc recognize the need for an approach which provides for appropriate levels of transparency, Funke Osibodu accountability and self-assessment through regular reporting to our stakeholders. We will Union Bank of Nigeria Plc seek to work with the Central Bank of Nigeria, other relevant government agencies and Ado Wanka development finance institutions to create the enabling environment as well as the Unity Bank of Nigeria Plc incentives and enforcement mechanisms required for successful adoption and uptake of Segun Oloketuyi Wema Bank Plc the sustainable banking principles. Godwin Emefiele Zenith Bank Plc We acknowledge that we can better support environmentally and socially responsible Abubakar Jimoh economic development in Nigeria by joining forces rather than standing alone. We hereby Associated Discount House Ltd sign this Joint Commitment Statement with the aim of developing a set of sustainable Adeleke Shittu banking principles for the Nigerian banking sector, to drive long-term sustainable growth Consolidated Discounts Ltd whilst focusing on development priorities, safeguarding the environment and our people, Kwesi Sagoe and delivering measurable benefits to society and the real economy. Express Discount Ltd Rilwan Belo-Osagie First Securities Discount House Ltd Laoye Jaiyeoba Kakawa Discount House Ltd Designed and produced by MerchantCantos, www.merchantcantos.com Printed by Empress Litho Limited Printed on Greencoat 55 Silk which is carbon balanced paper. This means the carbon intensity has been measured through the production process and an equivalent carbon credit (offset) has been purchased. It is made from 55% recovered fibre, diverting waste from landfill, and contains material sourced from responsibly managed forests together with recycled fibre, certified in accordance with the FSC (Forest Stewardship Council). It is manufactured to the ISO 14001 international standard, minimising negative impacts on the environment. Access Bank Plc The Plaza Plot 999c, Danmole Street Off Adeola Odeku/Idejo Street PMB 80150 Victoria Island Lagos Nigeria T: (+234) 1-2771191, 2773300-99 F: (+234) 1-2771185 www.accessbankplc.com
