Sustainability Report 2011 Letter from our CEO The sustainable side of air filtration This is why we incorporate sustainable rial for sustainable filtration solutions for principles and practices in everything today and tomorrow. we do, from concept to finished filter. We constantly source new ideas and Sustainability has always been a inspiration. With eco-thinking embedded natural top priority, allowing us to conin all our research and development, stantly carry out concrete measures we can focus on the real sustainability that contribute to a better world. job at hand – the creation of green filter solutions that improve indoor air quality, Our sustainability goal cut operating costs for ventilation sysWe have stated that we aim to be the tems, and save energy. greenest and cleanest air filtration company in the world and we are well Life cycles and energy efficiency on our way, if not there already. One primary focus of our research is To live up to this ambition, we the overall life cycle performance of continue to do what we have been our products: how we deliver air qualdoing for half a century – work hard ity of maximum benefit while minimizto help our customers improve health ing our environmental impact as much and productivity, and at the same time, as possible. We accomplish this by help them become more sustainable selecting the right materials, using the and environmentally friendly. We help right production methods, minimizing them save energy and reduce their transportation and ensuring approprienvironmental footprint with our clean ate end-of-life treatment. air solutions. Equally important is the energy Eco-efficient filtration also makes efficiency of our filters. Cleaning “dirty” our customers more attractive and air requires energy and contributes to more economically viable. When our carbon emissions related to energy customers purchase Camfil Farr prodproduction. But the considerable ucts and systems, they are making a power appetite of heating and ventilasound investment that benefits their tion systems in commercial, industrial A t Camfil Farr, we have taken susbusiness and end-customers. and public buildings is being reduced tainability seriously for decades. today by installing Camfil Farr filters, We can proudly say that we pioneered Sustainable R&D which have the least air flow resistance the concept of eco-efficiency in the air Some say that sustainability is “no and cut energy usage in air handling filtration industry, and in almost every rocket science”. That can certainly be units. way, we are far ahead of our competidebated, because the development of Allow me to put a number on this tors when it comes to developing and green product solutions requires subto give you an idea of what we mean: supplying green solutions. stantial research and years of industry When we operate our business For every percent we improve experience. in a sustainable way, we are sure Our R&D is an example. We have our the energy performance of our that our filtration solutions, services own unique resources, such as our stateproduct portfolio, our customers and actions deliver the all-important of-the-art Technology Centre in Sweden, save more than 100 million kWh product of clean air in an eco-efficient and tech centres in other world regions. of electricity per year… with the way that helps preserve the environAround the globe we carry out research added major benefit of better ment and natural resources for future projects in association with institutes to ­generations. IAQ. develop methods, techniques and mateS U S TA I N A B I L I TY RE PORT 2011 / 2 Balancing health and ­eco-efficiency Highlights of the 2011 financial year Camfil Farr’s air filtration experts • Results: Camfil Farr recorded another successful year of higher sales and earnhave pursued the ambition to develop ings. Net sales amounted to SEK 4,851 M (4,575), an increase of SEK 275 M, energy-efficient solutions that benefit compared with 2010. Underlying operating profit, excluding restructuring costs and the operations of customers globally, items affecting comparability, was SEK 493 M (478), an increase of SEK 15 M and using life-cycle thinking for solution corresponding to an operating margin of 10.2% (10.4). design and life-cycle costing method­­­­ ology and tools. • Redemption of minority shareholding: The Camfil Farr Group once again However, in today’s era of climate became a 100-percent-family-owned company when the Parent Company, Camfil change, the circumstances that create AB, redeemed all shares previously held by the private equity company Ratos during opportunities for the air filtration busimore than 10 years of close cooperation. Ratos became a shareholder in the Camfil ness unfortunately pose dilemmas for Farr Group in 2000 in connection with the acquisition of Farr in the United States. decision-makers. Which path should • New subsidiary in Dubai: At the end of 2011, Camfil Farr established a new they prioritize – the protection of peoMiddle Eastern base and subsidiary in the Jebel Ali Free Trade Zone in Dubai. The ple’s health or the reduction of carbon Dubai subsidiary will help expand Camfil Farr’s footprint in the region. Middle East emissions? What is most important business will be conducted primarily through independent distributors. in the long term – the economic and social impact of air pollution on human • Expanding in India: Three years ago the Camfil Farr Group acquired a 76% share health or stopping climate change? of Anfilco in India, forming Camfil Farr Air Filtration India Ltd as a joint venture with The answers might lie somewhere Anand International Pte Ltd. Over the years, Camfil Farr India has been gradually in-between and Camfil Farr’s products integrated into the Camfil Farr family, more than doubled its sales and quadrupled can make the difference to find a susits profit. In 2011, the remaining shares (24%) were acquired, making Camfil Farr tainable balance. India a wholly owned subsidiary. The company has also set up a modern fabrication What all of this means is that we hub for Power Systems in Trichy, 300 km south of Chennai, to serve major global aim to remain the leading filtration OEM customers. company to bring our sustainable • Expansion of North American sales organization: In the first quarter of 2011, clean air solutions to the world. We the Camfil Farr Group acquired Exfil, a U.S. distributor, to increase Camfil Farr’s have a bright and sustainable future presence in the Michigan market. Camfil Farr also acquired Solution Air in Beauport, together, so let’s make it together! in the province of Quebec, Canada. The two acquisitions are expected to contribute approximately SEK 57 M to consolidated sales. • Divestment of Railroad business: At year-end 2011, an agreement was reached to divest the Railroad business unit to Parker Hannafin Corporation during the first Alan O’Connell quarter of 2012. The Railroad business unit had sales of SEK 141 M in 2011, with President and CEO operations primarily in Canada, India and Australia. The divestment is part of Camfil Camfil Farr Group Farr’s strategic plan to focus exclusively on core air filtration business. Caring for customer sustainability By providing clean air solutions, we help our customers to become more environmentally friendly. On a daily basis, we advise them on the selection of the most eco-efficient filters, with the lowest possible energy consumption, for the sake of their businesses and the future of our planet. Today, we are focused on developing sustainable solutions, taking into account the entire product life cycle. We are also committed to maintaining and strengthening a partnership of trust with Camfil Farr’s air filtration solutions deliver optimum air quality, with the our customers by respecting the highest standards in business ethics, ranging from lowest possible energy consumption, respect of intellectual property to fair competition or transparency in business affairs. helping our customers to improve All these principles – stated in our Code of Conduct – are applicable to all Camfil health, productivity and eco-efficiency. Farr entities. S US TA I N A BI L I TY R E P O R T 2 0 1 1 / 3 Camfil Farr’s business segments Camfil Farr’s business concept is to provide customers with Indoor Air Quality (IAQ) and clean emissions in line with customer needs. This is being achieved with sustainable best-in-class filtration products and services, as well as through local presence. These solutions, products and systems are developed, manufactured and supplied internationally within the following key business segments: Comfort Air – filtration to protect people: Air filters for ventiClean Processes – filtration to protect production: lation systems in public and commercial facilities to provide clean Camfil Farr’s filters and clean air solutions are used in most air for high IAQ, well-being and a healthy and productive working industries where filtration is deployed to supply extremely clean environment. These products are the most eco-efficient filters air as a business-critical process in manufacturing operations. in the market, helping building owners and facility managers to Customers include the microelectronics, pharmaceuticals, food reduce their energy consumption and carbon footprint. and beverage, and automotive industries. Power Systems – filtration to protect gas turbines: Other Filter Business: The Other Filter Business segment Camfil Farr Power Systems is a leading supplier of heavy-duty includes filtration solutions for Airborne Molecular Contamination filtration and noise-control equipment for the gas turbines used (AMC) control and Air Pollution Control (APC); the CamCleaner by major power-generating and offshore operators worldwide. series of mobile and stationary air purifiers for large indoor Solutions include air inlet filtration systems, acoustic enclosures premises; and Nuclear & Containment, comprising high-efficiency and ventilation, exhaust systems, diverter dampers, ducting, particle/gas filtration and containment systems for nuclear power silencers, de-icing systems, and service and refurbishment. plants. Other specialities include biocontainment systems and filter housings for high-risk facilities (biosafety labs) and AMC control for the electronics/semiconductor industry. Camfil Farr filters are also used in the chemical, biological and aerospace industries. APC products are utilized primarily for dust and fume collection to clean up manufacturing processes. For a complete description of Camfil Farr’s operations, please refer to the company’s corporate website (www.camfilfarr.com) and 2011 Annual Report. S U S TA I N A B I L I TY RE PORT 2011 / 4 Camfil Farr around the world • HEA D Q UA RTERS • PRO D UCTI O N UN I T, I N CL . SAL E S • S A L ES O F F I CE • A G EN T • Key figures F ilter B u siness EU RO PE Sales and profit performance 2009-2011 N U M BER O F SALES IN EM PLO Y EES: 1,616 SEK M ILLIO N S: 2, 314 A M E R IC A S S ales 2 0 0 9 S ales 2 0 1 0 SALES 2011 N U M BER O F SALES IN S E K M I LLI ON S : 4 ,5 0 3 S EK MI L L I O N S : 4 ,5 7 5 SEK M ILLIO N S: 4,851 EM PLO Y EES: 642 SEK M ILLIO N S: 792 M ID D L E E A S T, S OU TH A SIA a n d A S IA PA C IF IC N U M BER O F SALES IN EM PLO Y EES: 529 SEK M ILLIO N S: 322 Profit 2 0 0 9 P rofit 2 0 1 0 PR O F IT 2011 S E K M I LLI O N S : 4 1 7 S EK M I L L I O N S : 4 7 1 SEK M ILLIO N S: 493 Po w er S y s te m s B u siness N U M BER O F SALES IN EM PLO Y EES: 228 SEK M ILLIO N S: 943 O th er B u siness Air Pollution Control (APC), Airborne Molecular Contamination (AMC), ­N uclear & Containment and Railroad* *Divested in early 2012 N U M BER O F SALES IN EM PLO Y EES: 441 SEK M ILLIO N S: 480 S US TA I N A BI L I TY R E P O R T 2 0 1 1 / 5 Transforming air filtration filtration industry. Delivering high indoor air quality, reducing the energy consumption of air handling systems with better into an eco-efficient industry filters, and continuing our cradle-to-grave approach to product management, all play a role in this process. The air filtration business is particularly Farr was the first air filtration provider to Driving the industry towards true susexposed to energy-efficiency policies that launch an energy classification system tainability and reducing our own envigovernments have developed in recent for air filters. This system was later ronmental footprint also involves steady years in response to climate change adopted to become the official certificaimprovement of company processes, issues. As regulations tighten up, Camfil tion process for the European air filtration practices and products from a sustainFarr has anticipated the new standards industry through the EUROVENT program. ability standpoint, as well as designing and positioned itself early to gain a strong In Europe, Camfil Farr also took the sustainability into Camfil Farr products competitive advantage, in a well-timed lead to revise the new version of the and services. manner. EN 779 standard for classifying air filters, This is why we benchmark our proThis has been accomplished over the which now sets the minimum performance gress with key performance indicators years by managing product performance requirements for products. and create reliable internal data for our and energy efficiency proactively instead sustainability reporting. of reactively. As a result, Camfil Farr Sustainability as a growth driver Building a strong internal eco-culture ­supplies the most energy-efficient air filtrathrough Group-wide sustainability proCamfil Farr believes that sustainability is tion solutions on the market today, helping grams and initiatives is equally important. vital for the company’s continuing growth. customers to save energy and reduce This is being accomplished through our We recognize that climate change, and their environmental footprint. annually recurring “Camfilcairing Week” a growing awareness about conserving Camfil Farr is the industry leader in program. resources in society, also requires responsustainability and eco-efficient filtration sible actions and solutions from the air solutions. For example, in 2007, Camfil S U S TA I N A B I L I TY RE PORT 2011 / 6 Ongoing Air quality is monitored continuously at cor­ ­ porate website, where you can also several remote sites in Trosa (Sweden), ­ see the next scheduled venue. the New York area and Paris, France to www.camfilfarr.com/RoadShow Road Show demonstrate how air pollution varies regionally. Data from these sites are transferred to a global database and the mobile lab campaign accesses the information with a 3G mobile connection and displays it on gauges. During 2011, the truck visited key cities in the United Kingdom, Sweden, France, The Road Show is the first of its kind in Germany, Switzerland, Slovakia, Finland, the air filtration industry. The 13-metreNorway, Denmark and Belgium. During these long trailer is drawn by an eco-efficient visits, we informed politicians, decisionScania truck with “Ecolution” package makers, the press and the public about air for the highest possible fuel efficiency pollution and poor IAQ and the impact on and the lowest possible carbon dioxide human health and performance. emissions. Inside, the trailer is equipped The Road Show initiative has received with a mobile lab and facilities for testmuch attention and is proving to be a highly Myriam Tryjefaczka ing air quality at Road Show venues. Air effective tool to spread Camfil Farr’s clean Corporate Sustainability Manager filter performance and efficiency is also air message. To learn more, please visit Camfil Farr Group demonstrated in the mobile lab. our Road Show campaign pages on our myriam.tryjefaczka@camfil.fr S US TA I N A BI L I TY R E P O R T 2 0 1 1 / 7 Helping our customers save energy Eco-designing products An energy-efficient product range In 2011, our most energy-efficient filter solutions for ventilation accounted for 67% of our global sales in the Comfort Air products segment. This share has grown 8% since 2007. Since 2007, 21% of our Comfort Air product sales volumes have been converted into energy-efficient filters that also improve IAQ. Camfil Farr was the first company to develop energy and air quality rating systems for air filters. These proactive systems, introduced several years ago, have been adopted by the European air filtration industry. EUROVENT’s introduction of a new energy efficiency classification system in 2012 is an example. Designing environmental aspects into the company’s air filters has been a Camfil Farr priority for years. By maintaining a constant The new classification, based on EN 779:2012, dialogue with filter media suppliers and evolving our filter designs, gives customers a clearer understanding of a we have been able to reduce the air-flow resistance of our filters, filter’s annual energy consumption, initial efficiency and minimum efficiency. This information makes it directly improving the energy-efficiency of ventilation systems that easier to select the right filter for the right applicause our products in air handling units and other filtration systems. tion for the best energy efficiency and filtration. Product design and process control integrate a number of This will become more and more important eco-efficiency considerations, including: as EU directives require public and commercial buildings to improve energy efficiency. Today, • preservation of natural and fossil resources, 10 to 20% of all electrical power in buildings is • reduction of waste and emissions, consumed to operate heating, ventilation and air conditioning systems. • operational energy efficiency, In addition to reducing energy consump• pollution risk prevention, tion and environmental impact for sustainability reasons, building owners also need to cut oper• reduction and substitution of hazardous substances, and ating costs as power prices increase. Selecting • use of recycled materials and the development of the right quality air filters with the lowest energy consumption can boost their eco-efficiency and alternative product recycling methods. also increase IAQ for a better and healthier work environment. AIR FILTERS CLASS F5-F9 S U S TA I N A B I L I TY RE PORT 2011 / 8 Camfilcairing is the internal platform for our vision and approach to sustainability Camfilcairing is the name and framework of our internal ­programme to integrate sustainability and corporate citizenship in every aspect of our business strategy. The Camfilcairing name is built around Camfil, our environment, caring and air – key words that are associated with the Camfil Farr name. Camfilcairing is designed to communicate our long-term commitment to care about our people, our shareholders, our customers and their processes, and the environment. Camfilcairing pillars The internal Camfilcairing platform is built on a number of p ­ illars (illustration) covering everything from energy efficiency and IAQ, to dialogues with stakeholders, green products and risk ­management. For example, risk management is being fine-tuned globally. Camfil Farr is continuing to secure risk management processes at local management level through benchmarking practices and CONT INU OUS IM PR OV E M E NT training at Camfilcairing Network Seminars in various countries. These seminars focus on safety and environmental risk INDO O R A I R Q UA L I T Y STAKEHOLDERS DIALOGUE EN ER G Y E F F I CI E N CY R ISK MAN A G E ME N T GRE E N P R O DUC T S CO D E OF CO N D U CT management in operations and also evaluate emergency ­ ­procedures and local disaster recovery processes. The outcome of these efforts will be the development and establishment of a common methodology for risk analysis, mitigation measures, prioritization and evaluation. At corporate level, Camfil Farr is structuring the Group’s comprehensive global business risk assessment system, which is updated every six months. This process is leading to action plans for mitigation and control actions. The risk assessment process allows global involvement of management and decision-makers at both local and corporate level. Camfil Farr supports the United Nation Global Compact initiative and has integrated its principles in the Camfilcairing Code. Camfil Farr reports in accordance with the Global Reporting Initiative. The GRI matrix is available on our sustainability pages at www.camfilfarr.com. S US TA I N A BI L I TY R E P O R T 2 0 1 1 / 9 Camfilcairing activities in 2011 Camfilcairing activities in 2011 con­ tinued to embrace energy conser­ vation programmes, life cycle assessments to mitigate the environmental impact of products and operations, the introduction of green measures, and caring for people in our local markets ­ through community-oriented initiatives. In early 2012, the fourth consecutive Camfilcairing Week was held across the Group. As in previous years, employees were actively engaged in a wide variety of sustainability-related activities ranging from sharing local environA number of Camfilcairing-related initiamental good practices and green tips tives – such as informing customers for offices, to sustainability activities, about our energy-efficient filters with employee health programmes, energy Internet conferences (webinars) – also conservation and waste reduction mea­ help profile us as a green enterprise and sures, and local community actions. The support our overall objective to increase latter ranged from raising funds for chariawareness about the importance of filtraties and research, collecting clothes for tion for air quality, health, performance the needy, and a number of social and and eco-efficiency. humanitarian actions, such as hiring the disabled for mailing and packing services. Camfil Farr now has a global Human Resources Director, who is establishing corporate guidelines to standardize and improve HR processes. This important investment in human resource management completes our approach to eco-efficiency by developing the social aspects of ­sustainable development. Learn more on page 12. Sustainability achievements in 2011 United Kingdom: Camfil Farr UK adapted All Group production units benchmark EN 16001. As part of the certification and certified the company’s energy manenergy savings with a view to reducing process, meters were also installed to agement system to the new ISO 50001 their consumption of power, gas and effectively monitor, control and reduce standard. Over the past two years, trade heat. In addition, several new ISO 14001 consumption of energy and water in organizations, magazines and associaand ISO 50001 projects were launched in production processes. The French R&D ­ tions have awarded more than 10 prizes, 2011 with certification expected in 2012 centre has also introduced GaBi 4 softawards and commendations to the comand 2013. ware to perform Life Cycle Assessments pany (see page 15). The following are a few examples of for products made in France and at other United States: Camfil Farr’s U.S. facilienvironmental, energy and work environCamfil Farr subsidiaries. ties are steadily focusing on increasing ment measures that were carried out in Malaysia: Camfil Farr’s local production eco-efficiency and reducing their carbon 2011 at Camfil Farr facilities around the company was the first in the country to footprint by continuing to implement energyworld. successfully obtain ISO 50001 certificasaving concepts, including installations tion for its energy management system. of light-switch motion sensors, energySweden: our factory in Borås success­ Equipment has also been installed to efficient windows, new and more efficient fully passed ISO 14001 certification in compress scrap media and reduce truck HVAC units for all offices, and white reflec2011. transports of waste to the local landtive membranes on roofs. Environmental France: Camfil Farr France’s Saintfill, reducing carbon-dioxide emissions Magazine also awarded a prize to the U.S. Martin-Longueau plant was certified to ­significantly. subsidiary in 2011 (see page 15). S U S TA I N A B I L I TY RE PORT 2011 / 10 Measuring is controlling… “Doing good” is a long-term commitment and sustainability initiatives need time to Reduced water consumption mature before a company can reap the full benefits of organizational efforts. In the Regarding water consumption, the overall Camfil Farr Group, global resource usage trends remain positive. At almost all Camfil volume decreased by 14% between 2007 Farr sites, resource efficiency programmes have been fine-tuned for continuing ­­success. and 2011 (albeit with overages in 2008 These efforts are creating additional resource-saving opportunities and enabling new and 2009). Process efficiency, along with improvements. user vigilance to ensure careful use of scarce resources in some regions, has Lower raw material Plants are more improved by 26%, despite higher producconsumption energy-efficient tion volumes in Group plants. Based on energy, water usage and waste Compared to the benchmark year of indicators, raw material consumption is 2007, energy consumption was 21% Less waste decreasing within Camfil Farr. However, lower in 2011, while the energy efficiency Waste was significantly reduced for the the eco-efficiency ratio indicates that the of our manufacturing plants improved by first time, compared to 2007. The Group’s entire Camfil Farr Group is still capable 38%. eco-efficiency was also slightly better than of producing more by using less. Our Camfil Farr’s ongoing sustainability in 2008. Waste management needs to be resource consumption is stabilizing and programmes are also contributing signifiimproved and focused on more. However, the organization as a whole is becoming cantly to controlling energy costs within better practices at manufacturing facilities more and more efficient, allowing us to operations, which helps increase the allowed us to increase our waste recycling grow our business while reducing our Group’s profitability. from 30% in 2007 to 50% in 2011, reducoverall environmental impact. ing landfill waste. Energy use Water use Waste ENERGY CONSUMPTION OF FACTORIES gwh 3 3 total waste tonNEs ee index k sek/tonNE total water use m eei k sek/t water m eei = cogs/energy use SEK M/gwh 3 EEI Total water use m kSEK/TONNE Total waste TONNES 80 50 100000 6400 520 60 38 75000 4800 390 40 25 50000 3200 260 20 13 25000 1600 130 0 0 0 0 0 2009 2010 2011 2009 2010 2011 2009 2010 2011 Waste destination 2007 2011 18% 19% 32% 51% 30% 50% LANDFILL incineration recycling LANDFILL incineration recycling S US TA I N A BI L I TY R E P O R T 2 0 1 1 / 1 1 Committed employees for successful, sustainable business Sustainability is a key focus for our employees and Camfil Farr’s Human Resources (HR) initiatives are serving to drive the company toward successful sustainable development. ability firmly in the mindset of Camfil Farr Aiming to become First staff around the globe. Choice Employer Our company can only succeed in At Camfil Farr, we also depend on creating eco-efficiency if we have people who a work environment that retains talented can meet the sustainability challenges of people. today and tomorrow. During 2011, a pilot survey was conducted to measure staff satisfaction – Committed employees drive the Camfil Personnel Attitude Involvement successful business Research survey (“Campair” for short). At Camfil Farr, HR serves as the vital The purpose of this survey was to Eva Bergenheim-Holmberg, link between employee commitment and identify Camfil Farr’s strengths and weakDirector Corporate Human Resources customer satisfaction. The importance of nesses and gather information to improve & Internal Communication a sustainable HR agenda is confirmed by our business. A survey generates valuable the fact that an increasing number of job data, measurements and findings that can We develop, manufacture and sell prodbe processed and assessed to create applicants now pre-assess the social and ucts that provide something as essenmore value for employees, and ultimately, environmental performance of companies tial as clean air, so we naturally need for our customers and owners. before choosing an employer. to ensure that our own environmental The plan is to implement a full-scale Sustainability therefore provides strafootprint is as small as possible while CAMPAIR survey in 2012 in which all tegic business opportunities for Camfil operating with the highest possible ethiCamfil Farr employees, in all Group comFarr when attracting the best future cal standards. With this firm commitment panies, will participate. talents. to eco-efficiency, we can meet society’s evolving criteria for sustainable business and good corporate social responsibility. Internally, we work on all parts and First choice employer processes of our company, but we also remember how we really provide one of our largest contributions to sustainability Sustainability in – through our people. This is why it is imperative to recruit and retain top talent, Human Resource Management create incentives for exceptional perform­ ance and enhance critical competencies to build a solid personnel platform for Recruit Retain Develop driving additional success and increasing Core values Performance and Camfil Academy eco-efficiency. STAIRS* recruitment Appraisal process Global Employee With employees committed to sustainprocess Health & Safety Development Programs ability through HR actions, we achieve our CAMPAIR** Survey business goals and increase long-term Camfil Farr Yearbook customer value by integrating our economic, environmental and social opportuExamples of tools used to promote, measure and assess HR actions at Camfil Farr. nities in Camfil Farr’s business strategy. “STAIRS” stands for the key words “Search Talent Ambition Inspiration Result Succession”, while “Campair” – the Camfil Personnel Attitude Involvement Research survey – measures The company’s recently establishedemployee attitude and commitment globally to benchmark HR initiatives and their progress. corporate HR function represents another The ultimate goal is to improve the company further for the benefit of employees, major step toward integrating sustain­ customers and stakeholders. S U S TA I N A B I L I TY RE PORT 2011 / 12 The Empowerment Index result in the initial Campair pilot Initiatives in 2011 ­s urvey was 59 The following is a summary of recent HR-related actions for occupational health, 100 safety and well-being: 80 60 • India: Camfil Farr India won the Chief ­ performed as part of local activities I´m I get during the Group-wide Camfilcairing We take Minister’s Award for its strict adhermotivated I have I have the 40 support authority Week programme. responsibility ence to national safety and fire-fighting qualifications 20 0 regulations and its track record in • Sweden: The Swedish subsidiary, cleanliness in the workplace. Camfil Svenska AB, is focusing on New Empowerment Index • China: Safety management was providing ergonomic workplace furimproved at Camfil Farr China's plant niture for the comfort and health of Empowerment can be defined as “selfby giving safety training courses and employees. To conserve resources, power”. When Camfil Farr’s employees conducting activities that have reduced the company sells its used furniture are empowered, they take even more the number of accidents, and absenfor reuse and purchases only recondiresponsibility by having sufficient authorteeism due to injury, by 33% and 23%, tioned second-hand desk and tables. ity, competence and support from their managers. By measuring empowerment respectively. • Slovakia: Camfil Farr s.r.o. was named we can see if the organization is capable • Asia: Most of the Camfil Farr employsecond best family-friendly employer in of reaching a goal or desired result. ees in Asia are now entitled to free the country for its efforts to balance The Empowerment Index was one of physical examinations for health the work and family commitments of the tools used in 2011 to process the screening purposes. These health employees. See picture below. results of the pilot Campair survey. The checks are usually proposed and results are shown in the above illustration. Sustainability mindset A sustainable development mindset, from an HR perspective, pushes Camfil Farr employees to constantly improve their skills, competencies and focus on perform­ ance. New HR-related actions, such as those described below, are strengthening values that make sustainability central to business strategy. HR initiatives are also supporting the develop­ ment of metrics and systems aligned around sustainability. Lost work days due to work-related injuries Number of sick leave days per 100 work days per 100 work days 0.35% 6. 00% 0.30% 5. 00% 0.25% 4. 00% 0.20% 3. 00% 0.15% 2. 00% 0.10% 1. 00% 0.05% 0. 00% 0.00% 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 S US TA I N A BI L I TY R E P O R T 2 0 1 1 / 1 3 Developing a dialogue with stakeholders Camfil Farr has been participating in the work of standardization committees to educate the general public on the (ASHRAE, ISO and CEN) and national standardization bodies for many years. Camfil benefits of clean air and good IAQ. Farr has also been active within industry associations at national and European level. As a result, Camfil Farr contributes to the development of recommendations and • In Austria, Camfil Austria GmbH has methodologies for the selection and application of appropriate high-quality filtration entered into a partnership with Meine solutions in buildings. Ramluft, an NGO advocating better In 2011, Camfil Farr continued to develop a dialogue with stakeholders IAQ to educate the public about clean involved in the policy-making process at European level, including Commission air and the dangers of air pollution. An event is planned together with the ­officers involved with energy regulations, HVAC professional associations, NGOs, Road Show in Vienna during 2012. expert groups and institutions mandated by the EU to prepare a new regulation framework that will impact the air filtration business in the future. • In association with UNICLIMA, the The objective is to share Camfil Farr’s expertise on the best available French union for HVAC and refrigera­tech­nology for air filtration and the options for ensuring that IAQ and public health tion professionals, Camfil Farr's Road will not be compromised by the next set of European regulations for the energy Show was installed at the Pollutec efficiency of buildings and ventilation systems. exhibition in France, the largest Another purpose is to encourage debates and build awareness of how event for environment professionals ­ low-energy air filtration solutions can play a key role in reducing the energy in Europe. Persons interested in air ­consumption of buildings while also improving IAQ and impacting both sustainability quality measurements and indoor ­ and human health positively. air pollution mitigation technologies visited the mobile lab and attended ­ Activities several conferences to which Camfil • Outreach program in Brussels – a • Camfil Farr currently chairs Farr was invited as a contributor. stakeholders meeting was held EUROVENT’s Filter Working Group in Brussels targeting Members of and Certification Committee. In 2012, • Back in December 2010, Camfil Farr Parliament (MEPs) and European Camfil Farr joined EVIA (European sponsored the General Assembly of ­policy professionals. An informal disVentilation Industry Association), a the Architects Council of Europe (ACE) cussion brought together experts and newly created European trade assoto disseminate information about the MEPs for a Road Show event at ciation. For several years, Camfil Farr importance of effective air filtration Place de Luxembourg, in front of the has also been supporting REHVA, the in building ventilation systems. ACE Parliament. independent European association of organized a high-level conference HVAC experts and engineers. in the European Parliament, where • Camfil Farr also sponsored an Air one of our experts was invited to Quality links dossier and a Special • In 2011, Camfil Farr became the speak. Camfil Farr is continuing activiReport published on euractiv.com, first gold sponsor of the Clean Air in ties to disseminate information to Camfil Farr’s media partner in London (CAL) campaign that aims to the European Parliament. The exhibiBrussels. build public understanding of indoor tion “Sustainable Architecture across air quality, initially in the British capiEurope”, launched at the Parliament • Camfil Farr sponsored a roundtable, tal. The Road Show was arranged in in 2011, travelled across European organized by Euractiv, on the next air London in 2011 to invite and gather capitals during the year and in early quality regulations. European MEPs, City of London representatives, the 2012. European Commission representapress and particularly experts and tives and NGOs participated in the practitioners of air quality. The Road discussions. Show will return to Canary Wharf in For complete information about May 2012. Camfil Farr's sustainability initiatives, • Camfil Farr developed closer collabovisit www.camfilfarr.com ration with ventilation trade associa• In the Netherlands, Camfil Farr BV tions and experts to communicate the has formed an alliance with Erasmus importance of developing regulations University (Rotterdam) and the NULA for energy efficiency that will not association of lung specialists to con­compromise IAQ and public health. duct a “Clean Air for Everyone” project S U S TA I N A B I L I TY RE PORT 2011 / 14 Recent Energy & Environmental Awards and Achievements Initiatives to improve internal energy and resource efficiency; reduce greenhouse gas emissions; provide exceptional supply and procurement services; manufacture eco-efficiently; develop low-energy products and take good care of employees. Camfil Farr Group Russian Energy Agency’s Award, Technology of the Year Category, for energy-efficient t­echnologies and low-energy products. Camfil Farr Sweden Camfil Farr Power Systems in Borås achieved ISO 14001 certification. Camfil Farr France Certified to EN 16001 energy management system. Camfil Farr Malaysia Federation of Malaysian Manufacturers (FMM) Excellence Award – Rising Star of The Year. First in Malaysia to achieve ISO 50001. Camfil Farr Slovakia Ministry of Labour’s Award for No. 2 Best Employer in Slovakia, for helping employees balance work and family commitments. First place for Company of the Region, looking after the environment and employees. Camfil Farr United Kingdom The Energy Institute Awards – Energy Excellence – winner. Excellence in Carbon Reduction, SME category, Emap Awards. Energy Efficient Product of the Year, low-energy Hi-Flo® filter, Emap Awards. MITIE Supplier Overall Award, Carbon Reduction category, for sustainable procurement. HVN Air Conditioning Product of the Year, low-energy Hi-Flo® M7 H7 filter. Best Engineering Plant, Best Factory Award. Other achievements: First British company to transition from BS 16001 to ISO 50001. First company in world to achieve both ISO 50001 and the Energy Reduction Verification Kitemark (British Standards Institution). Energy & Environmental Awards SME Sustainable Business/Highly Commended. Best Factory Awards – Health & Safety – Highly Commended. Best Factory Awards – Environment & Energy – Highly Commended. Manufacturer of the Year – Sustainable Manufacturing – Commended. RAC Magazine Cooling Awards – Air Conditioning Product of the Year – Highly Commended. Manufacturer of the Year – World Class Manufacturing – Commended. Camfil Farr United States Environmental Protection Magazine’s New Product of the Year Award, Air Quality and Climate Category, for the energy-saving Hi-Flo® ES pocket filter. Plant Engineering Magazine Product of the Year winner, The Gold Series® with Integrated Safety Monitoring filter. The Gold Series® with Integrated Safety Monitoring filter, Camfil Farr APC. Camfil Farr Australia/New Zealand Clean Air Award for 2011, CASANZ (Clean Air Society of Australia & New Zealand). Cover photo: Camfil Farr Thailand never stops “Cairing”. The 2011 monsoon season in Thailand caused severe flooding that impacted the lives of more than 13 million people in 65 of the country’s 77 provinces, including 15 Camfil Farr Thailand employees. To help them, the company rented temporary apartment units and gave cash assistance to those who were most affected. Staff that escaped the ravages of the flood gave cash donations and helped their colleagues clean up their homes, all under the Camfilcairing banner – to care “inside-out” by being actively responsible for the welfare of the environment and the needy in society. S US TA I N A BI L I TY R E P O R T 2 0 1 1 / 1 5 Camfil Farr – Sustainability Report Camfil Farr is the world leader in air filters and clean air solutions. Camfil Farr is the global industry leader in clean air solutions with almost 50 years of experience. Our ­ ­ solutions protect p ­eople, ­ processes and the environment to benefit human health, i­ ncrease performance, and reduce and manage energy consumption. Twenty-­ three manufacturing plants, four R&D sites and over 65 ­local sales offices worldwide provide service and ­support to our customers. The Camfil Farr Group is headquartered in ­Sweden but more than 95 percent of sales are international. The Group has around 3,500 ­employees and a turnover in the range of SEK 4.9 billion. For further information about Camfil Farr’s global sustainability programme, contact: Myriam Tryjefaczka Corporate Sustainability Manager Camfil Farr Group myriam.tryjefaczka@camfil.fr Phone: +33 3 44 29 33 40 Artwork: Kaigan TBK. Text: Thorn PR Sweden and Camfil Farr. ©Camfil Farr. 2012-04. www.camfilfarr.com For further information please contact your nearest Camfil Farr office.
